IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::::::: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.16/2016

State of Assam
Versus

Md Eyasfizur Rahman _....... Accused

Present: Smt.Mitali Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State :MrM.K.Ghose, Special P.P.

Ld. Advocate for the accused : Mr S.Pahariya

Evidence recorded on : 24.5.17, 29.6.17, 17.7.17 and 09.5.18
Argument heardon —: 27.8.2018
Judgment delivered on : 27.8.2018

JUDGEMENT

1. The prosecution story in brief is that on 11.02.16 at about 11.30
A.M. the informant Md Monirul Islam lodged the first information report
stating that on 10.02.16 the accused Yesfizur Rahman and others forcefully
abducted his sister-in-law Jesmina Yesmine from his house. Hence, the first
information report.

2, On receipt of the first information report in Kokrajhar P.S., a
case has been registered under Kokrajhar P.S. case No.83/2016 under section

366(A) IPC, R.W.section 4 POCSO Act and case was endorsed to SI Sri Robin
Special Case No.16/16

2

Biswas for investigation. During investigation the I.O. visited the place of
occurrence and recorded the statement of the witnesses, recovered the victim
girl, medically examined her and after ascertaining the minor age of the
victim, the charge sheet has been filed by the I.O. under section 366(A) IPC,
R.W. section 4 POCSO Act against the accused Yesfizur Rahman. Relevant
copies also furnished to the accused and my learned Predecessor framed the
charge under section 366 IPC, R.W. section 4 of POCSO Act against the
accused finding a prima-facie case. The charges were read over and explained
to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
Bi: The prosecution side examined as many as seven number of
witnesses including the informant, victim and M.O. as follows:

PW 1 Dr. M. Boro Phukan,

PW 2 Mosstt Farida Bibi,

PW 3 Md Sampat Ali,

PW4 Mosst Ahmed Yesmin Parbin,

PW5 Md Monirul Islam,

PW6 Md Shakir Hussain,

PW 7 Mosstt Sopina Yesmin.
4. The accused person took the plea of total denial while recording
his statement under section 313 of Cr.P.C. and declined to adduce any
evidence.
5. Points for determination:

(1) Whether the accused abducted Jesmine Yesmine for the

purpose of committing sexual intercourse ?

(2) Whether the accused committed the offence of penetrative

sexual assault to the minor victim ?
Special Case No.16/16

3

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

 

6. To arrive at a just decision I have thoroughly perused the
evidences of prosecution witnesses, assessed them and hearing arguments
from both sides the case is decided as follows:-

de PW1 Doctor stated in her evidence that on 08.3.16 the victim
Jesmine Resmine was produced before her for medical examination but, the
victim refused to undergo medical examination.

8. PW2 is the mother of the victim stated that her daughter went on
missing one day and they failed to trace out her inspite of vigorous search. She
further stated that the FIR was lodged due to missing of her daughter from the
residence and stated that she was absent on the day of the incident. In cross
evidence she stated that she did not know whereabouts of her daughter on the
day of incident.

9. PW3 is the father of the victim stated that his daughter went on
missing on the day of incident and the FIR was lodged for missing his
daughter. He further stated that the accused is his son-in-law. In cross evidence
he stated that the accused married his daughter. He further stated that his
daughter was about 18 years old at the time of her missing.

10. PW4 is the victim of this case stated in her evidence that she
went herself to the house of the accused and she got married with the accused
and then went to Kerela and her sister-in-law brought them from Kerala. She
stated that she was brought by the police to the court and her statement was
recorded in the court. In cross evidence she stated that at the time of incident
she was 18 years and her parents accepted their marriage. Further she stated
that they have a baby out of wedlock. She further stated that they have been
living peacefully as husband and wife and maintaining a good relationship

with her parents. Accused neither kidnapped her nor committed rape on her.
Special Case No.16/16

4
11. PWS5 is the informant of this case stated that the victim Yesmine
Jesmine went on missing and he informed the matter to the police. He lodged
the FIR against the accused person. In cross evidence he stated that the victim
is his sister-in-law. He further stated that he lodged the case on suspicion. He
also stated that his father-in-law arranged their marriage and they have been
living peacefully as husband and wife.
12. PW6 in his evidence stated that he know the accused but, he
does not know about any incident. He also stated that the victim Yesmine went
on missing from her residence.
13. PW’7 stated in her evidence that the informant is her husband and
the victim Ahmed Jasmine Parbin is her younger sister. She further stated that
her younger sister got married with the accused. But, she does not know how
marriage was solemnised.
14. From the testimonies of PWs, it reveals that the FIR was lodged
against the accused only on suspicion because of missing of the victim and at
present their marriage was solemnised and they are living peacefully as
husband and wife. Their marriage and relationship is accepted by the parents
of the victim. So, there is no dispute in regard to the marriage and love affairs
between the victim and the accused. From the testimony of the victim it also
reveals that she herself went with the accused. But, vital issue is the age of the
victim and the police filed the charge sheet against the accused under section
366(A) IPC, R.W. section 4 of POCSO Act considering the victim as minor
one. But, there is no medical document or any other authentic document to
ascertain the age of the victim. She also refused to go for medical

examination. More so, the victim as well as her parents have stated that she
Special Case No.16/16

5

was 18 years of age at the time of her missing. PW5 the informant also
mentioned the age of the victim only on presumption. Thus, it is seen that the
victim was 18 years of age at the time of the incident and hence her will or
consent is relevant. And if she herself stated that she went with the accused by
her own or got married with him, the accused cannot be convicted under
section 366 IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act.

15. In view of the discussion made above, it is held that the
prosecution could not establish the case against the accused Yesfizur Rahman
under section 366 IPC, R.W. Section 4 of the POCSO Act beyond all
reasonable doubt and hence giving the benefit of doubt I hereby acquit the
accused and set him at liberty forthwith.

16. The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the court on this 27th August/2018 at Kokrajhar court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
