1

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR
Special (POCSO) Case No. 05 of 2015.
GR Case No. 2287/13
(Section 8 of the Special POCSO Act, 2012)

State of Assam
- Versus -

Md. Hasen Ali

Present ; Mr. P.J. Saikia, AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Appearance :
For the State : Mr. H.P .Sedai,

Public Prosecutor.

For the accused : Sri Ashok Mahanta Advocate.

Date of evidence ; 17-11-2015,18-12-2015
06-02-2016,14-03-2016
& 26-04-2016

Date of 313Cr.P.C.

statement of accused. : 01-06-2016

Date of argument : 01-06-2016

Date of judgment ; 01-06-2016

JIUDGMENT
1. This is a case under the Protection of Child from Sexual

Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act in short).
2

The Prosecution case.

2. On the day of occurrence, the fifteen years old prosecutrix had
gone to the river bank to cut and collect grass. At that time the
accused was also cutting grass on the bank of the river. While the
prosecutrix was cutting grass suddenly pounced upon her from behind.
The accused had a sickle in his hand and with that he threatened her
of dire consequence if she tried to raise alarm. Out of fear, the
prosecutrix kept mum. The accused had removed her clothes and
committed rape upon her. The accused also put the sickle on the neck
of the prosecutrix and asked her whether she will marry him. The
prosecutrix answered in affirmative and thereafter she was allowed to
go. Immediately, the prosecutrix went home and informed her mother
about the said occurrence.

3. The father of the prosecutrix had lodged an ejahar before the
police wherein he had alleged that the accused had tried to drag his
daughter deep into the nearby jungle and by putting a sickle on her
neck, the accused had procured the consent of his daughter that she
will marry him. The informant/father has also alleged in the ejahar that
his daughter had agreed to marry him under the fear of sickle and for
that matter his daughter was released by the accused.

4. During the period of investigation, the victim girl was produced
before a Judicial Magistrate for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
She has stated before the Magistrate that at the time of occurrence the
accused had gagged her mouth and forcibly took her to the deep of
the nearby jungle. The prosecutrix has also stated before the
Magistrate that putting a sickle on her neck the accused had asked her

as to whether she will marry him. According to the prosecutrix after
3

she agreed to the proposal of marriage, the accused had committed
rape upon her by removing her clothes.
5. Police seized one under pant and one long pant which were
reportedly worn by the victim at the time of occurrence. Those clothes
were sent for Forensic examination and no human semen was found in
those clothes.
6. The victim was also subjected to the medical examination on
the next day of the day of occurrence. The Doctor opined that the
victim appeared to be below 18 years of age. The report of the doctor
did not support the prosecution case.

Point for determination.
7. — The only point for determination in this case is as to whether the

accused had penetrative sexual intercourse upon the prosecutrix.

Decision and Reasons thereof
8. In the instant case, as many as twelve numbers of witnesses
have been cited by the Investigating Officer. Out of the said twelve
numbers of witnesses, three are official witnesses. In this trial, the

prosecution has examined eight witnesses.

9. For deciding the point for determination, I shall take up the
evidence of prosecutrix first. In her examination-in-chief, the
prosecutrix has supported the prosecution case. She has stated before
the learned defence counsel that when she had gone to the river bank
to cut grass, her fellow villager Kamal Chouhan was also cutting grass
at the same place. She has also stated that the accused came to the

river bank at a subsequent stage. The prosecutrix has also stated
4

before the learned defence counsel that when she was having an
argument with the accused at the place of occurrence at the relevant
time, Kamal Chouhan came near her. The prosecutrix has also stated
that the ejahar that was filed by her father was written by a person
called Tapan Chakraborty and she was present when her father had
put his signature in the said ejahar.

10. Now, I shall take up the evidence of Moneswar Chouhan, the
father of the prosecutrix. This witness has stated in his evidence that
on the day of occurrence he was returning from Borsola in a bicycle
and he saw that his daughter along with 10/20 numbers of women
were going towards the Police station. This witness came to know
about the occurrence only at that time. He also went to the Police
station and lodged the ejahar which is marked as Ext. 2.

11. The witness Moneswar Chouhan has stated before the learned
defence counsel that the Ext. 2 was written according to his instruction
and at that time his wife and the prosecutrix were present with him.
12. Now, I shall take up the evidence of Tapan Chakraborty. He
wrote the ejahar. He has stated in his evidence that he wrote the
ejahar after Moneswar Chouhan had narrated the entire facts before
him. Tapan Chakraborty also stated that he had read over the contents
of the ejahar to Moneswar Chouhan before the later had put his
Signature thereon.

13. The name Kamal Chouhan has been referred to by the
prosecutrix in her evidence. Kamal Chouhan has stated in his evidence
that the mother of the prosecutrix is his niece. The witness has stated
that on the day of occurrence he was cutting grass at the river bank

and at that point of time he had seen the accused, who was carrying a
5

sack of grass on his back, running past him. Kamal Chouhan has stated
that at that point of time he had heard the mother of the victim girl,
shouting loudly and saying that the accused had attacked the
prosecutrix.

14. Before the defence counsel, the witness Kamal Chouhan has
clearly stated that while he was cutting grass at the time of
occurrence, he did not see the prosecutrix near him. He also did not
see the accused and the prosecutrix together at the place of
occurrence at the relevant time.

15. The prosecution side has examined a witness named Paban
Chouhan who is a cousin of the prosecutrix, Laxmania Chouhan who is
a neighbor of the prosecutrix and the Doctor who examined the victim
at the time of investigation.

16. The remaining witness is the mother of the victim girl. She has
stated that at the relevant time of occurrence her daughter had gone
to the river bank to cut grass and after sometimes she returned home.
The witness has stated that her daughter was crying at that time and
she reportedly told her that the accused had dragged her into the
jungle and there he had committed rape upon her. The mother of the
victim girl immediately went to the river bank in search of the accused.
She met him on the river bank. According to the mother of the
prosecutrix, the accused on seeing her had fled leaving behind his sack
of grass.

17. Before the defence counsel, the mother of the prosecutrix has
admitted that while Tapan Chakraborty was writing the ejahar for
them, she and her daughter were present there. The mother has

claimed that Tapan Chakraborty did not put the actual facts in the
6

ejahar which they told him. The mother has clearly stated that Tapan
Chakraborty has written an erroneous ejahar. The mother of the victim
has also disclosed before the learned defence counsel that when her
daughter had gone to the river bank to cut grass, the witness Kamal
Chouhan was already there and was cutting grass.

18. Ihave carefully gone through the prosecution evidence. In this
case, the prosecutrix and her mother have supported the fact that on
the day of occurrence, the accused had committed rape upon the
prosecutrix. But the father of the prosecutrix as well as the person who
wrote the ejahar has not supported the aforesaid fact. Furthermore,
the evidence of Kamal Chouhan remains unchallenged in this case. He
has stated that he never saw the prosecutrix at the place of occurrence
at the relevant time.

19. The victim was medically examined on the next day of occurrence
but the doctor did not find any injury marks on her person or any
symptoms of sexual intercourse. The Forensic report also could not
find any trace of semen on the undergarments of the prosecutrix.

20. It is settled position of law is that ordinarily the evidence of a
victim of sexual attack deserve to be considered sacrosanct. Once the
statement of the prosecutrix inspires confidence and is allowed by the
Court as such, conviction can be based only on solitary evidence on the
prosecutrix and in corroboration could be required unless there are
appropriate reasons which necessitate the Court to seek corroboration
and the statement of the victim lady her testimony has to be proved on
the principle of probability just as the testimony of any other witness.
Thus the law relating to mode of appreciation of evidence of a rape

victim is very clear.
7

21. In Rajoo & Ors. v. State of Madhya Pradesh( AIR 2009 SC
858), the Hon,ble Supreme Court has held that ordinarily the evidence
of a prosecutrix should not be suspected and should be believed, more
so as her statement has to be evaluated on par with that of an injured
witness and if the evidence is reliable, no corroboration is necessary.

The court however, further observed:

It cannot be lost sight of that rape causes the greatest
distress and humiliation to the victim but at the same time a
false allegation of rape can cause equal distress, humiliation
and damage to the accused as well. The accused must also
be protected against the possibility of false implication.
There is no presumption or any basis for assuming that the
statement of such a witness is always correct or without any

embellishment or exaggeration. |

22. Coming back to the case in hand, I have carefully considered the
prosecution evidence of the record. I have found that there are serious
contradictions in the evidence of the prosecutrix. Her evidence has not
been supported by Kamal Chouhan, Moneswar Chouhan and Tapan
Chakraborty. There is nothing in evidence to suggest that Kamal
Chouhan was nurturing enmity towards the victim and accordingly
spoke against her. There is also nothing in evidence to suggest that
Moneswar Chouhan would speak against his daughter and Tapan
Chakraborty wrote an ejahar wherein baseless facts were narrated.
The evidence of the prosecutrix failed to inspire confidence at this

stage. I have no doubt that the prosecution has failed to prove the
8

offence against the accused Md. Hasen Ali beyond all reasonable
doubt.
ORDER
23. That being the position, the accused Md. Hasen Ali is found not
guilty and he is acquitted from this case.
Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 1*
day of June, 2016.

(P.J.Saikia)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(P.J. Saikia)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Typed by me.

(R. Hazarika),Steno.
APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1- victim
P.W. 2 - Sri Moneswar Chouhan, informant.
P.W.3- Dr. Jnarna Kakoti, M.O.
P.W. 4 - Smti. Rasmi Chouhan,
P.W.5 - Sri Paban Chouhan,
P.W. 6 - Sri Kamal Chouhan,
P.W. 7 - Smt. Laxmania Chouhan,
P.W. 8 - Sri Tapan Chakraborty.
Defence witnesses =
NIL
Prosecution Exhibit
Ext.l - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Ext.2 - FIR
Ext.3 - Medical report.
Ext.4 - advice slip
Ext.5 &6- Laboratory reports.
Ext.7 - X-ray report.

Defence Exhibits -

NIL

( P.J. Saikia )
Special Judge
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
10
