IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE :: :: SIVASAGAR

Present :-  SriS.K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions J udge cum Special J] udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 04 of 2019

u/s 366/376(3) IPC & Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012
(Arising out of Binubar PS Case No. 17/2018)

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Ajay Sabar ...........0 Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
For the accused Mr. D.K. Gohain, Advocate

(Legal Aid Counsel)

Date of framing Charge: 12.02.2019
Dates of Evidence 27.03.2019, 09.04.2019, 22.04.2019,

20.05.2019
Date of S/D 03.06.2019
Date of Argument 03.06.2019
Date of J udgment 17.06.2019

UDGMENT
1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 14.08.2018, informant Smt.

Drupadi Tassa lodged an FIR with O/C, Bihubar PS alleging, inter alia, that on
10.08.2018, at about 12 noon, her 14 years old grand-daughter victim '‘B'
(name withheld), who is a student of class |X at Rangajan High School, while
returning from her school, eloped with the accused Sri Ajay Sabar of Santak

107 No. Grant, Santak with a purpose to perform marriage.

2 On receipt of the FIR, Bihubar PS Case No. 17/2018 u/s 366 IPC
r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act was registered and investigated. During
investigation, victim was recovered from the house of accused. She was

Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 1 of 16
medically examined and also got her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Accused Ajay Sabar was arrested and forwarded to Court for judicial custody.
On completion of investigation, 1.0. has submitted Charge-Sheet against the
accused u/s 366 IPC, read with Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

3. On receipt of the charge sheet, cognizance of offence u/s
366/376(3) IPC read with Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 was taken and after
furnishing copy to the accused, vide order dated 12.02.2019, charges u/s
366/376(3) IPC, read with Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 has been framed
against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial.
During trial, prosecution side has examined seven witnesses including MO and
|O. Accused face the trial as UTP and was provided with the services of Legal
Aid Counsel.

4, Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. After hearing both the sides u/s 232 Cr.P.C, and
observing that it is not a case of no-evidence, accused was called upon to enter
into defence to which he declined to adduce evidence in defence. Defence case
is that the victim on her own came to the accused and thereafter they lived as
wife and husband for about 2 months in a rented house at Sanpura and then
for 1 month at the residence of accused till recovery by police. Accused also

admitted that at the time of recovery, victim was pregnant through him.

5. | have heard argument of Id. Special P.P. Mr. Srimanta Gogoi and
Mr. D.K. Gohain, learned Legal Aid Counsel and gone through the evidence on

record. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
6. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

(1) What was the age of the victim on 10.08.2018?

(ii) | Whether on 10.08.2018, accused kidnapped/abducted the victim?
If so, what was the intention of the accused behind such kidnap/
abduction?

(iii) Whether on 10.08.2018 or thereafter, accused committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault/rape on the victim?

Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 2 of 16
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. PW-1 Sri Drupadi Tassa, grandmother of the victim, in her
evidence deposed that accused Ajay Sabar is her nephew. Victim B is living with
her since her childhood. Victim is presently aged about 14 years. At the time of
incident, victim was a student Rangajan High School. On 10.08.2018, as victim
did not return from her school at usual time, she sent her relatives to search
her and during search, on the next day morning, father of the accused
informed her that on the previous night, accused Ajay and victim stayed in the
house of his daughter at Santak T.E Line No. 3 and today they eloped
therefrom. They continued the search. On 4'" day of missing, she lodged FIR at
Bihubar PS. After about 3 months of elopement, on knowing that accused and
victim has returned to his house, she informed the matter to police and
accordingly police apprehended the accused and recovered the victim from the
house of accused at Santak Hatkhola. Police took the victim for medical
examination and also brought her to Court. For about a week Victim kept at
Safe home and again brought to Court. From Court she was given in her
custody. Parents of accused refused to accept the victim. On asking, the victim
informed her that accused took her with him by alluring her and used force on
her. In her cross examination, PW-1 admitted that while giving statement to
police, she has not mentioned that “during search, on the next day morning,
father of the accused informed her that on the previous night accused Ajay and
Victim stayed in the house of his daughter at Santak T.E Line No. 3 and today
they eloped therefrom.” She denied that while giving statement to police, she
has not stated that “On asking, the victim informed her that accused took her
with him by alluring her and used force on her.” She denied that her claim on
age of victim age 14 years and that she was a student of Rangajan High School

are false.

8. PW-2 the victim B in her evidence deposed that accused Ajay
Sabar is known to her being cousin of her mother. From child hood, she resided
with her grandmother Drupadi Tassa at Nepali Khuti, Bihubar. Her parents

reside at Bamunpukhuri under Bihubar PS. She is presently aged about 15
Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 3 of 16
years. At the time of incident of this case, she was a student of class IX. On
09.08.2018, she went to school and after school break at about 2.00 PM, she
came to Santak with accused Ajay as she had love affairs with him. He brought
her to his brother's house at Santak and stayed there for the night. On the next
day, Ajay brought her to Sanpura and kept her in the house of Dou. He started
working in a tent house. They stayed there for 2 months. Thereafter, he
brought her to his house at Santak Line No. 7 and stayed there for about one
month. Thereafter, police recovered her from the house of accused and took
them to police station. Police took her for medical check up and also in Court.
On that, she gave her statement in Court. Exbt. 1 is her statement. Exbt. 1(i) is
her signature. On that day, she deposed in similar line as deposed today. While
She was taken for medical checkup, she was pregnant but after returning
home, due to fall by slip, her pregnancy was aborted. She was pregnant
through accused Ajay. Police interrogated her. In her cross examination, PW-2
admitted that having love affairs, she on her own eloped with the accused Ajay
and stayed with him. While going with Ajay, she did not make any hue and cry
nor informed any person about bringing her against her will. She denied that
while giving statement to police or in Court, she has not stated that “she was
pregnant but after returning home, due to fall by slip, her pregnancy was
aborted. She was pregnant through accused Ajay.” She denied that Ajay never
co-habited with her. She denied that she was not pregnant through Ajay. At the
time of incident, she was a student at Rangajan High School. She also studied
at Bihubar Hiloni M. E School upto class VIII and took admission at Rangajan
High Scholl in class |X. She did not read in class |X of Bihubar Hiloni High
School. She denied that she has deposed falsely on her age as 14 years. She

denied that her age is above 19 years.

9. On her re-examination, PW-2 Victim proved her SEBA Registration
Card of class |X as Exbt. 2. In this card her date of Birth is mentioned as
15.04.2004. In her cross examination, PW-2 deposed that in Exbt. 2, the school

name of Bihubar Hiloni High School is mentioned. She never read at Bihubar

Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 4 of 16
Hiloni High School. She denied that Exbt. 2 is not her school registration card.

Exbt. 2 was not seized by police.

10. PW - 3 Sri Krishan Karmakar in his evidence deposed that victim Is
living with her grandmother Drupadi Tassa since her childhood. At the time of
incident, Victim was a student of class IX Bihubar Hiloni High School. On
10.08.2018, as Victim did not return from her school at usual time, on knowing
this from Drupadi Tassa, they searched for her. During search, he came to
know that school bag of Victim was kept in one shop at Bihubar. On this, he
went there and brought the bag. Shopkeeper told them that victim kept the bag
by saying that she is coming shortly. After 2-3 days, Drupadi lodge FIR at
Bihubar PS. During search, they came to know that accused was also missing
from his house and then suspected that accused has taken away the victim as
he use to visit the house of Drupadi. Subsequently victim was recovered. He did
not ask Victim about the incident. In his cross examination, PW-3 denied that
while giving statement to police, he stated that “on 10.08.2018 at about 12
noon Victim returned from Rangajan High School; that he heard that she
eloped with Ajay Sabar on her own.” He denied that his evidence that Victim

was a Student of Bihubar Hiloni High School is false.

11. PW-4 Sri Prakash Panika in his evidence deposed that on
10.08.2018, as Victim did not return from her school at usual time, on knowing
this from Drupadi Tassa, they searched for her. On this incident Drupadi lodge
one FIR at Bihubar PS. After about a month or more, Victim was recovered by
police. He heard that she was recovered from the house of accused. He did not
ask Victim about the incident. In his cross examination, PW-4 deposed denied
that while giving statement to police, he stated that “Victim eloped with Ajay

Sabar after school break from Rangajan High School.”

12: PW-5 Dr. Sundar Changmai the medical officer in his evidence
deposed that on 13.11.2018, at 12.30 PM, on police requisition, he examined
victim B of Bihubar Nepali Khuti Village, in connection with Bihubar P.S. Case
No. 17/18. General history of patient is on 08.08.2018 she left home with Ajay

Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 5 of 16
Sabar of Santak 107 Grant. On examination of victim, he found that (i) her age
is between 12-15 years, (ii) No evidence of injury on her body & private parts,
(ili) Presently around 8 weeks of pregnancy. Ext. 3 is the medical examination
report and Ext. 3(1) is his signature. Ext. 3(2) is the radiological report as
received online. In the radiological report, there is mention of non-united lower
ulna and radius and completely developed elbow joint. He has mentioned the
age as stated by the radiologist in Ext. 3(2). In his cross examination, PW-5
deposed that as per his personal opinion on the above x-ray findings, the girl
Should be aged below 16 years. He denied that the age mentioned in the

medical report and in his report is not as per medical jurisprudence.

13. PW-6 Smt. Bimala Sarma in her evidence deposed that victim Is
living with her grandmother (Nani) since her childhood. On 10.08.2018, at
about 4 PM grandmother of the victim came to her house and informed that
Victim did not return from her school. Victim was reading in class |X. On this
incident, Victim’s Grandmother lodge one FIR. After 3-4 days, Victim's
Grandmother informed her that Victim eloped with the accused. After few
months she met Victim at her residence but she did not tell her about the

incident. Cross examination of PW-6 was declined by defence.

14. PW-7 ASI Pabitra Konwar in his evidence deposed that on
14.08.2018, FIR was received from Smt. Drupadi Tassa and Bihubar PS case
No. 17/18 u/s 366 IPC r/w Section 4 of Pocso Act was registered. Exbt. 4 is the
FIR. On the next day, he went to the place of occurrence i.e. residence of
informant at Nepali Khuti Gaon and drawn a sketch map of the PO. Exbt. 5 is
the said sketch map. During investigation, he came to know that victim has
eloped with Ajay Sabar. He went to the house of accused but did not find the
victim and Ajay Sabar in his house. On 12.11.2018 on getting information that
the victim and accused Ajay were in their house, he went to the house of
accused and recovered the victim from the house of accused Ajay Sabar at 107
No. Grant, Santak under Bihubar PS. On 13.11.2018, victim was sent for
medical examination and also sent to Court for recording her statement u/s 164

Cr.P.C. Accused was arrested and forwarded to Court. During investigation, he
Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 6 of 16
has collected the medical report and statement given by victim in court. On
completion of investigation, he has submitted charge sheet against the accused
u/s 366 IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act. Exbt. 6 is the charge sheet. In his
cross examination, PW-7 deposed that as per the statement of victim given u/s
164 Cr.P.C, the victim has stated that she eloped with accused on 08.08.2018.
FIR was lodged on 14.08.2018. In the FIR there was no mention of delay in
lodging the FIR. He has not investigated on the cause of delay in lodging the
FIR. As per the sketch map, road to Bihubar Hiloni. Several houses were shown
near to the place of occurrence. He has not examined any of them. Witness
Druapdi Tassa did not state before him that “On asking Victim, she informed
her that accused took her with him by alluring her and used force her.” Victim
did not state before him that “she was pregnant but after returning home, due
to fall by slip, her pregnancy was aborted and that she was pregnant through
accused Ajay.” In the FIR, there was mention that victim was studying
Rangajan High School. He has not investigated on her age by going to school.
Witness Krishan Karmakar in his statement has stated that “on 10.08.2018 at
about 12 noon victim returned from Rangajan High School and he heard that
She eloped with Ajay Sabar on her own.” Witness Prakash Panika in his
Statement has stated that “Victim eloped with Ajay Sabar after school break
from Rangajan High School.” PW-7 denied that, he has not investigated the

case properly.

15. Basing on the above evidence on record, let me decide the points

formulated.

16. Point Nol: So far age of the victim is concerned, on the date of
evidence i.e. on 27.03.2019 the victim claimed her age as 15 years. Victim also
Stated that she is a student of class |X at Bihubar Hiloni High School. On her
re-examination on 09.04.2019, the victim has proved SEBA Registration Card of
class IX as Exbt. 2 and in the said Registration Card date of birth of the victim is
mentioned as 15.04.2004. In her cross examination the victim admitted that in
the said Exbt. 2 the name of the school is mentioned as Bihubar Hiloni High

School, but she was a student of class IX at Rangajan High School. During
Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 7 of 16
investigation, the above Exbt. 2 was not seized by police. PW 1, the informant
and maternal grand-mother of the victim in her evidence stated that victim is
aged about 14 years. PW 5 Dr. Sundar Changmai in his evidence while proving
the medico legal report and the radiological report has deposed that the age of
the victim is between 12 to 15 years. He proved his report as Exbt. 3 and report
of the radiologist as Exbt. 3 (2). From the evidence of PW 7, the |.O. it appears
that he has not collected any document on age of the victim. In his 313 Cr.P.C.
examination though the accused claimed that age of the victim was about 18
years, but he did not produce any evidence and failed to dislodge the evidence
of the prosecution witnesses as stated herein before particularly on the age of
the victim. From Exbt. 2, it appears that on the day of occurrence i.e. on
10.08.2018, the victim was aged about 14 years. Even for the argument sake, it
appears that due to difference of name of the school in Exbt. 2, then also the
age of the victim as claimed by her which got due support from her grand-
mother (PW 1) and M.O. (PW 5) clearly shows that she was below the age of
15 years. Considering above, | hold that on the alleged date of incident, age of

the victim was between 14 to 15 years.

17. Point No. II: So far fact of taking away of the victim is concerned,
the victim in her evidence stated that on 09.08.2018 she went to school and
after school break at 2 PM she came to Santak with accused Ajay and there
from he took her to his brother’s house at Santak where they stayed for the
night. On the next she was taken to Sanpura and accused kept her in a rented
house for about two months. Thereafter accused brought her to his own house
at Santak where she stayed with the accused for about one month. Thereafter
police recovered her from the house of accused at Santak. During her cross
examination she admitted that having love affairs, she eloped with the accused
on her own and stayed with him. Victim also admitted that while going with the
accused she did not make any hue and cry nor informed any person about
bringing her by the accused against her will. The above fact when put to the
accused in his 313 Cr.P.C. examination, accused has categorically admitted that
he accompanied the victim from her school and thereafter he took her to his

Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 8 of 16
brother's house at Santak and then he kept her at Sanpura for about two
months and thereafter they lived together at his own house at Santak for about
one month till apprehended by police. This part of admission of the accused of
taking away of the victim and keeping her with him for about three months is
an admissible in evidence. The fact of recovery of the victim from the house of
the accused after about three months was also confirmed by PW 1 Smt.
Drupadi Tassa, the maternal grand-mother of the victim, the other witnesses
and PW 7, the 1.0. It is in the evidence of PW 7 that on 14.08.2018 the FIR
was received and that on 12.11.2018, on getting information that victim and
accused Ajay were in their house, he went to the house of accused, recovered
the victim, apprehended the accused and brought them to Bihubar PS. In her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C, (Exbt. 1) the victim reiterated that having love affairs
with the accused Ajay for last about one year and as her grand-mother and
parents did not like their relationship, on 08.08.2018, she eloped with accused
Ajay willfully and stayed with him at Sanpura for about two months and then
returning to the house of accused at Santak and stayed there for about one
month. In her 164 Cr.P.C. statement victim also categorically admitted that
accused did not kidnap her nor used force on her to go with him; rather she
voluntarily went with the accused. Thus, it is clear that the victim on her own,
eloped with the accused Ajay and stayed with him for about three months 1.e.
from 09.08.2018 to 12.11.2018.

18. Now the question arose for determination is whether taking away
of a minor girl from the protective umbrella of her lawful guardian and
accompanying such minor girl and keeping thereafter will amount to kidnap as
defined u/s 361 IPC.

19. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the reported case of S.
Varadarajan Vs. State of Madras [AIR 1965 SC 942] held as follows:-

11. It must, however, be borne in mind that there is a distinction
between "taking: and allowing a minor to accompany a person. The two
expressions are not synonymous though we would like to guard
ourselves from laying down that in no conceivable circumstance can the
two be regarded as meaning the same thing for the purposes of

Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 9 of 16
S. 361 of the Indian Penal Code. We would limit ourselves to a case like
the present where the minor alleged to have been taken by the accused
person left her father's protection knowing and having capacity to know
the full import of what she was doing voluntarily joins the accused
person. In such a case we do not think that the accused can be said to
have taken her away from the keeping of her lawful guardian. Something
more has to be shown in a case of this kind and that is some kind of
inducement held out by the accused person or an active participation by
him in the formation of the intention of the minor to leave the house of
the guardian.

12. It would, however, be sufficient if the prosecution establishes that
though immediately prior to the minor leaving the father's protection no
active part was played by the accused, he had at some earlier stage
solicited or persuaded the minor to do so. In our opinion if evidence to
establish one of those things is lacking it would not be legitimate to infer
that the accused is guilty of taking the minor out of the keeping of the
lawful guardian merely because after she has actually left her guardian's
house or a house where her guardian had kept her, joined the accused
and the accused helped her in her design not to return to her guardian's
house by taking her along with him from place to place. No doubt, the
part played by the accused could be regarded as facilitating the
fulfillment of the intention of the girl. That part, in our opinion, falls short
of an inducement to the minor to slip out of the keeping of her lawful
guardian and is, therefore, not tantamount to "taking".

20. In a similar facts of the case in hand, Hon'ble Gauhati High Court
in the reported case of Saddam Hussain Vs. State of Assam [2018 (4) GLT
986] has followed the above ratio while setting aside the conviction of an

accused u/s 366 IPC though conviction u/s 4 of Pocso was maintained.

21. Hon'ble Himachal Pradesh High Court in the reported case of
Khyali Ram Vs. State of Himachal Pradesh [1979 Cri. L. J} 620], held as follows: -
“In order to attract the offence of kidnapping under Section 361, |.P.C,
something more had to be proved than mere joining of the accused with
the girl. An active participation by the accused in the formation of the

intention of the girl either immediately prior or sometime before she left
her father's house, was required to be established.”

22. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the reported case Shyam and
another vs. State of Maharashtra [AIR 1995 SC 2169] has held that .....
“She was a fully grown up girl may be one who had yet not touched 18

years of age, but, still she was in the age of discretion, sensible and
aware of the intention of the accused Shyam, That he was taking her

Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 10 of 16
away for a purpose. It was not unknown to her with whom she was
going in view of his earlier proposal. It was expected of her then to jump
down from the bicycle, or put up a struggle and, in any case, raise an
alarm to protect herself. No such steps were taken by her. It seems she
was a willing party to go with Shyam the appellant on her own and in
that sense there was no "taking" out of the guardianship of her mother.”

23. By keeping the above law in mind, when we look at the fact of the
case in hand, as discussed earlier, it is clear that the victim, who was aged
between 14 to 15 years, on her own eloped with the accused and stayed with
him for about three months. Victim has categorically admitted that accused did
not used force on her to go with him. Thus, it is clear that there is no
incriminating material against the accused so far allegation of kidnap is
concerned. In the instant case, ingredients of offence u/s 366 IPC or even any

other minor offence like section 363 are totally missing.

24. Point No. III: So far allegation of rape/aggravated penetrative
sexual assault on the victim is concerned, PW 2 the victim in her evidence
Stated that while she was taken for medical check-up, she was pregnant but
after returning home, due to fall by slip, her pregnancy was aborted. Victim
categorically stated that she was pregnant through the accused Ajay. She
denied that before police she has not stated about her pregnancy and abortion.
On looking at the evidence of PW 5 the medical officer, it appears that during
medical examination the urine test get positive result of pregnancy and USG
examination also reveals SIUP of 8.6 weeks of undetermined viability. In his
evidence, the M.O. has confirmed that on the date of examination, the victim
carried 8 weeks of pregnancy. The other witnesses are silent on this point. In
his 313 Cr.P.C. examination when the fact of pregnancy was put to accused
vide question No. 13 and question No. 19, as deposed by the victim and the
findings of the M.O., the accused has categorically admitted about pregnancy of
victim through him. It is in the evidence that for three months the victim
resided with the accused at Sanpura for two months and at Santak for one
month as wife and husband. Though during cross-examination, it was brought
on record by defence that the victim did not state before police regarding her

pregnancy, abortion and that she was pregnant through accused but the
Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 11 of 16
medical evidence and the admission of the accused is found reliable and
trustworthy and not disclosing the same before the |.0. can be treated as an
omission only. This part of admission made by the accused in his examination
u/s 313 Cr.P.C. though not recorded on oath, is admissible as admission of a
particular fact for which no further proof is required. Law is well settled
regarding admissibility of confession made by an accused during 313 Cr.P.C.

examination.

25. Hon'ble Gauhati High Court in the case of Mithu Kalita @ Mitu
Kalita. --vs-- State of Assam [2006 (1) GLT 393] has explained the law as

follows:

“(11) Before proceeding any further, therefore, what is important to bear
in mind is that though a statement, recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C.,
is not a statement made on oath and is not, strictly speaking, evidence,
yet the statement, so made, can, indeed, be taken into consideration at
the trial against the accused for the purpose of arriving at the guilt or
otherwise of the accused. In no uncertain words made the apex Court
clear this position of law, when it observed and held in State of
Maharashtra -vs- Sukhdev Singh and another, reported in (1992) 3 SCC
700, as follows:

"51. That brings us to the question whether such a statement
recorded under Section 313 of the code can constitute the sole
basis for conviction. Since no oath is administered to the accused,
the statements made by the accused will not be evidence stricto
sensu. That is why subsection (3) says that the accused shall not
render himself liable to punishment if he give false answer. Then
comes sub-section (4) which reads : "313 (4) The answers given
by the accused may be taken into consideration in such inquiry or
trial, and put in evidence for or against him in any other inquiry
into, or trial for, any other offence which such answers may tend
to show he has committed. "

Thus the answers given by the accused in response to his
examination under Section 313 can be taken into consideration in
such inquiry or trial. This much is clear on a plain reading of the
above sub-section. Therefore, though not strictly evidence, sub-
section (4) permits that it may be taken into consideration in the
Said inquiry or trial. ***”

( 12 ) From what has been observed and laid down in Sukhdev Singh

(supra), it also becomes transparent that if an accused person, in his

examination under Section 313 Cr. P. C. , confesses to the commission of

the offence (s) charged with, the Court may, relying upon such
Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 12 of 16
confession, proceed to convict the accused and that it is only if the
accused does not confess and/ or choose to explain the circumstances
appearing in the evidence against him or sets up his own version of the
occurrence claiming to the effect that he had committed no offence, the
Statement of the accused, made during the, course of examination under
Section 313 Cr. P. C. , can be considered in its entirety along with other
pieces of evidence on record. To put it differently, there is no
impediment in law for a Court to found conviction of an accused on his
confession made by him during his examination under Section 313
Cr.P.C.”

26. From close scrutiny of the evidence of the victim, as discussed
earlier, it is clear that during her stay with the accused, the victim was
subjected to cohabitation with the accused as husband and wife. Though there
is no evidence that accused used force on her while cohabitation and her
Statement as given u/s 164 Cr.P.C. that she lived as wife and husband, which
Shows that she might be a consenting party to the physical relation with the
accused during her stay with him, but her consent becomes immaterial and
irrelevant in view of her age, which | have already determined as below 15

years.

27. Section 375 IPC provides that a man is said to commit rape with
or without consent when the girl is under 18 years of age. Thus any physical
relation/co-habitation with a minor girl even with her consent amount to rape
as defined u/s 375 IPC/penetrative sexual assault as defined u/s 3 of Pocso Act.
Section 5 (j)(li) of POCSO Act, 2012 provided that making the child pregnant as
a consequence penetrative sexual assault, it becomes an aggravated penetra-
tive sexual assault which is punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.

28. In this case, prosecution through the admission of the accused of
making the victim pregnant and the fact that victim was below the age of 15
years, has been able to prove beyond doubt that accused has committed the
offence punishable u/s 376 (3) IPC as well as same was also an offence u/s 6
of POCSO Act, 2012.

29. Considering all above, | hold that in this case though prosecution

has failed to prove the charge u/s 366 IPC against the accused for the alleged

Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 13 of 16
offence of kidnap, but prosecution has been successful in proving the case
beyond reasonable doubt that accused Ajay Sabar has committed the offence of
rape/penetrative sexual assault on the minor victim girl as made punishable u/s
376 (3) IPC as well as Section 6 of POCSO Act 2012. Accordingly accused Ajay
Sabar is convicted for the above offences. Accused Ajay Sabar is acquitted from
the charge u/s 366 IPC.

30. | have considered the applicability of Section 3 & 4 of Probation of
Offenders Act in this case. Considering the nature of the offence proved by the
prosecution and also considering that the punishment provided for the offences
may extend to life imprisonment, | am not inclined to extend the benefit of the

benevolent provisions of law to the accused.

31. Heard the convict on the point of sentence. His statement is
recorded in separate sheets. | have also heard learned Advocate for both the
sides. By referring to section 42 of Pocso Act, Learned Special PP has prayed for
awarding maximum punishment for the accused as provided u/s 376(3) IPC.
Learned Legal Aid Counsel has prayed for leniency in sentence by narrating the
family background of the accused and the fact that victim was consenting
party.

32. It may be noted here that Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 provides
for a minimum punishment of rigorous imprisonment (RI) for 10 (ten) years,
which may extend to imprisonment for life and also fine; whereas Section 376
(3) IPC provides for a minimum punishment for 20 (twenty) years, which may
extend to life imprisonment till natural death and also liable to fine as stood
amended w.e.f. 21.04.2018 vide Act No. 22 of 2018. In view of Section 71 of
IPC and Section 42 of Pocso Act 2012, which provides that where an act or
omission constitutes an offence punishable under Pocso Act as well as under
the provision of Section 376 IPC then notwithstanding anything contains any
law for the time being in force, the offender found guilty of such offence shall

be liable for punishment whichever greater in degree.

Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 14 of 16
33. Considering the facts of the case in hand, | am of the considered
Opinion it is not a case for awarding maximum punishment i.e. life
imprisonment to the accused. The minimum punishment as provided by law will
meet the ends of justice. In the case in hand, as stated above, Section 376 (3)
IPC provides higher punishment than the provision of section 6 of Pocso Act,
2012 and as such by applying the power u/s 71 of IPC and section 42 of Pocso
Act, 2012 convict Ajay Sabar is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment
(RI) for 20 (twenty) years and also for a fine of Rs. 5,000/- (Rupees five
thousand) i/d further SI of 2 (two) months for committing the offence
punishable u/s 376(3) IPC.

34, It is further provided that in the event of payment of fine by the

accused, same shall go the victim u/s 357 Cr.P.C.

3), Apart from above the matter is referred to DLSA Sivasagar for
exploring the possibility of paying compensation to the victim u/s 357A Cr.P.C
from Assam Victim Compensation fund and/or any other fund provided for
rehabilitation of rape victim by the State Government or by Union of India or by

NALSA as per rules made there under.

36. Convict Sri Ajay Sabar is sent to District Jail, Sivasagar to serve

out the sentence.

37. Convict Ajay Sabar is entitled for the benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C.

for the period already undergone during investigation and trial.

38. Send a copy of the judgment with all relevant papers showing

identity of the victim to the Secretary DLSA Sivasagar for needful action.

39, Let a free of cost copy of the judgment be given to the convict

Ajay Sabar immediately as per the provisions of Section 363 (1) Cr.P.C.

40. Convict Ajay Sabar is informed about his right of appeal against
the judgment and order of conviction and sentence before Hon'ble Gauhati High
Court either by appointing his own advocate or though legal aid panel advocate

or by way of J ail Appeal.

Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 15 of 16
4l. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

42. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this 17" day of June, 2019

at Sivasagar.

Special | udge,
Sivasagar

APPENDIX
1. Prosecution witnesses :

PW 1 - Smt. Drupadi Rassa (Informant)
PW 2 - Victim 'B'

PW 3- Sri Krishna Karmakar

PW 4- Sri Prakash Panika

PW 5 - Dr. Sundar Changmai (MO)

PW 6 - Smt. Bimala Sarma

PW 7 - ASI Pabitra Konwar (10)

2. Defence witnesses~ - None

3. Court witnesses - None

4. Exhibits by prosecution -

Exbt. 1 - Statement of the victim given in Court u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Exbt. 2 - Registration Card of class IX of victim issued by SEBA.
Exbt. 3 - Medical report

Exbt. 4- FIR

Exbt. 5 - Sketch map

Exbt. 6 - Charge Sheet

Special J udge
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 04/2019 Page 16 of 16
