IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE :: SIVASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions J udge cum Special | udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 45 of 2017

U/ S 8 of POCSO Act 2012 and Section 352 IPC
(Arising out of Simaluguri P.S. Case No. 110/2017)

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Bipin Mech a... esas Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
For the accused Mr. Aditya Kr. Bora, Advocate

(Legal Aid Counsel)

Date of framing Charge: 21.04.2018
Dates of Evidence 19.05.2018, 15.06.2018, 26.07.2018,

08.08.2018
Date of S/D 21.08.2018
Date of Argument 04.09.2018
Date of J udgment 18.09.2018

UDGMENT

1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 26.09.2017, Sri Bikash Dutta

lodged an FIR with O/C, Simaluguri P.S. alleging, inter alia, that on that day, at
about 5.30 PM, while his sister victim 'P' (name withheld) was returning home
from her tuition through village road, finding her alone in the road, accused
Bipin Mech misbehaved her by touching various parts of her body with sexual

intent. On returning home, the victim informed the matter to him.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Simaluguri P.S. Case No. 110/2017, U/S 8
of POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and started investigation. During

investigation, victim was medically examined and recorded her statement in the

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 1 of 13
court U/S 164 Cr.P.C. On 10.02.2018 accused was arrested and produced

before this court for judicial custody.

3. On completion of investigation, the I/O has submitted charge-
Sheet against Bipin Mech for trial U/S 8 of POCSO Act, 2012. On receipt of the
charge sheet, cognizance of offence was taken, copy was furnished to him.
Services of Legal aid Counsel was provided to accused. Upon hearing both the
sides, vide order dated 21.04.2018, charges U/S 8 of POCSO Act 2012 and
Section 352 IPC has been framed against accused Bipin Mech to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial. During trial, prosecution has

examined six witnesses.

4, Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial and false implication.
Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was called upon to enter into

defence. It may be mentioned here that accused face the trial as UTP.

5. | have heard argument of learned Special P.P. Mr. Srimanta Gogoi
and Mr. Aditya Kr. Bora, learned defence counsel and gone through the

evidence on record. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

6. (1) What was the age of the victim 'P' on 26.09.2017?
(11) Whether on 26.09.2017, at about 5.30 PM, victim 'P' was subjected
to sexual assault by the accused?
(111) Whether on 26.09.2017, at about 5.30 PM, accused used criminal
force upon the victim ?
7. PW 1 Sri Bikash Dutta the informant and brother of the victim in
his evidence deposed that accused Sri Bipin Mech is known to him being
neighbour. Present age of victim is about 15-16 years. She has appeared in
HSLC Exams in 2018. Her date of Birth is 17.03.2002. Exbt. 1 is the birth
certificate of victim P (proved-in-original). On 26.09.2017 at about 5 - 5.30 PM

his sister on her return from tuition, informed him that while she was returning

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 2 of 13
home though the field near to their house, accused finding her alone in the
lonely filed, hold her hand, touched her breast. On making hue and cry accused
tried to flee away and in this attempt, nail marks of accused embossed on the
arm of the victim. However accused managed to flee away. On knowing this, on
the same day he along with his sister went to Simaluguri PS where he lodged
the FIR. Exbt. 2 is the FIR. Police took Xerox copy of the birth certificate of his
sister and returned back the original to him. In his cross-examination by
defence, PW 1 admitted that he has not seen the incident on his own. He
deposed as reported to him by the victim. He denied the defence suggestion
that in the FIR and statement before police, he did not mention that “On
making hue and cry by victim, accused tried to flee away and in this attempt
nail marks of accused embossed on the arm of the victim. However accused
managed to flee away.” The place of occurrence is at a distance of about % KM
from his house. He did not hear any hue and cry of his sister. He denied the
defence suggestion that his sister got injury on her arm by falling on road due
to fear. The said raod used by villagers for coming to village. The incident took
place at evening hours. He denied that accused did not hold her or touch her
breast. He affirmed that on her cry, neighbouring persons did not gather at the

place of occurrence.

8. PW 2 the victim in her evidence deposed that her present age is
about 16 years. Her date of Birth is 17.03.2002. On 26.09.2017 at about 5.30
PM while she was returning home though village road on the field near to her
house, accused Bipin Mech was coming from opposite direction. From some
distance, she saw that he was coming smoothly on the side of his road.
However, on arriving near to her, accused started coming on the road in zigzag
manner and hold on the handle of her bicycle and forced to stop her. On
getting down from the bicycle, accused touched her both the breast. On making
hue and cry and when she tried to remove his hands, accused tried to flee
away and in this attempt nail marks of accused embossed on her right arm.

However accused managed to flee away. At that time none was present near to

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 3 of 13
the place of occurrence. The place of occurrence is a lonely place and the road
is through the field. On returning home, she informed the incident to her
brother Bikash Dutta, father Sri Prafulla Dutta, and other relatives. On the same
day, she along with her brother Bikash and cousins went to Simaluguri PS
where her brother Bikash Dutta lodged the FIR. Police took her to hospital for
medical check up. After 3-4 days, police took her to court where she gave her
Statement. Exbt. 3 is her statement given in court. On that she deposed in
similar lines. In her cross-examination, victim affirmed that the incident took
place on a village road which might be 5-6 feet wide. Said road was an uneven
gravel road. She denied the defence suggestion that in her statement before
police, she did not state that “From some distance, she saw that he was coming
Smoothly on his side of the road; that coming near to her accused started
coming on the road in zigzag manner and hold on the handle of her bicycle,
that when she tried to remove his hands, accused tried to flee away and in this
attempt nail marks of accused embossed on her right arm and that accused
managed to flee away, that on returning home, she informed the incident to
her father Sri Prafulla Dutta, and other relatives.” She denied that in her
Statement before court, she state that “on her hue and cry public gathered
there and accused flee away.” In her cross-examination she denied that she got
injury marks on her right arm due to falling from the bicycle. She also denied
that on her falling on road, accused came near to her to help in get her up from
road. She stoutly denied the defence suggestions that accused did not hold her

cycle or touch her breasts. Police did not seize the bicycle or school bag.

9. PW 3 Smt. Rumi Dutta in his evidence deposed that victim is her
niece and is aged about 15-16 years. On 26.09.2017 at evening hours Pinky
Dutta, elder sister of victim called her to their house by informing that while
victim was returning home through the field near to her house, accused finding
her alone, in the lonely filed pulled her cycle, touched her body. On knowing
this, she came to the house of victim and on asking; victim stated that apart

from holding her hand and touching her body by the accused, nail marks of

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 4 of 13
accused embossed on her arm. She saw nail marks on her shoulder. On their
request, she along with Mamoni Dutta, Bikash Dutta brought the victim to
Nazira Hospital for medical check up. Prior to going to hospital, they reported
the matter to Simaluguri PS. In her cross-examination, PW 3 admitted that she
had not seen the incident on her own. The road between the field is wide
enough to cross a vehicle. She denied that, before police, she did not state that
“On their request, she along with Mamoni Dutta, Bikash Dutta brought the
victim to Nazira Hospital for medical check up. Prior to going to hospital, they
reported the matter to Simaluguri PS.” PW 3 denied to have deposed falsely

against the accused.

10. PW 4 Smt. Mamoni Dutta in her evidence deposed that the
present age of victim is about 15-16 years. On 26.09.2017, at about 3 PM,
while she was at her residence, Bikash Dutta, came to her house and informed
that while his sister victim P was returning home from tuition through the field
near to her house, accused restrained her by pulling her cycle, touched her
breast. On knowing this, she came to the house of victim and on asking, victim
Stated that while she was returning from tuition, accused Bipin Mech by pulling
her bi-cycle, compelled her to get down, laid her cycle and touching her breast.
She along with Rumi Dutta, Bikash Dutta took the victim to Simaluguri PS. In
her cross-examination, she also admitted that she had not seen the incident on
her own. The road between the field is wide enough to cross a vehicle. She
denied that, before police, she did not state that “accused Bipin Mech pulled
her bi-cycle, compelled her to get down, laid her cycle and touched her breast;

that she went to Simaluguri PS.” She also denied to have deposed falsely.

11. PW 5 Dr. Laxmi Deori, in her evidence deposed that on 27.09.
2017, at about 11.20 A.M., on police requisition, she examined the victim in
connection with Simaluguri P.S. Case No. 110/2017 and found Nail mark (1 in
number) in right anterior aspect of arm. Victim came to her with alleged history
of sexual assault on 26.09.2017 at 05.30 PM. PW 5 also stated that age of

victim is below 18 years and one in number, nail mark in right anterior aspect

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 5 of 13
of arm seen. She proved her report as Ext. 4. In her cross-examination by
defence, PW 5 admitted that she has not mentioned the age and colour of the
injury.

12. PW 6 Sri Ujjal Goswami the |/O of this case, in his evidence
deposed that on 26.09.2017, at 10 PM, he received one written FIR from Sri
Bikash Dutta and registered Simaluguri PS case No. 110/17 u/s 8 of POCSO Act.
On the same night, victim was sent for medical examination at Ligiripukhuri
Hospital and she was advised to come on next day. On the next day, he sent
the victim to Sivasagar Civil Hospital for medical examination and also sent her
to Court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. He went to the place of
occurrence as shown by informant and drawn a sketch map of the PO. Exbt. 5
is the said sketch map. During investigation, on 10.02.2018, he apprehended
the FIR named accused Sri Bipin Mech and forwarded him to Court. He also
collected Birth certificate of the victim. On completion of investigation, he
submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 8 of POCSO Act. Exbt. 6 is the
charge sheet. In his cross-examination, PW 6 deposed that he visited the place
of occurrence on the next day of receipt of FIR at 11.30 AM. He did not take
the victim with him to the place of occurrence. The place of occurrence is a
village road. he did not mention the width of the road. But vehicles can easily
ply on that road. Police vehicle went to the PO by using that road. He has not
examined the teacher wherefrom the victim returned after taking tuition. He
has not ascertained whether any other student was with her. He examined the
bicycle used by the victim. During his investigation no eye witness of the
occurrence was found except the victim. PW 6 confirmed that witness Bikash
Dutta in his statement before him did not state that “On making hue and cry by
victim, accused tried to flee away and in this attempt nail marks of accused
embossed on the arm of the victim. However accused managed to flee away.”
Victim in her statement before him did not state that “From some distance, she
Saw that he was coming smoothly on his side of the road, that coming near to

her accused started coming on the road in zigzag manner and hold on the

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 6 of 13
handle of her bicycle, that when she tried to remove his hands, accused tried to
flee away and in this attempt nail marks of accused embossed on her right arm
and that accused managed to flee away, that on returning home, she informed
the incident to her father Sri Prafulla Dutta, and other relatives.” However she
has stated that she informed the incident to her brother. Witness Rumi Dutta in
her statement before him did not state that “On their request, she along with
Mamoni Dutta, Bikash Dutta brought the victim to Nazira Hospital for medical
check up. Prior to going to hospital, they reported the matter to Simaluguri PS.”
He did not find any injury mark on the arms of the victim. I/O has denied that
without going to the p/o he prepared the sketch map and completed his
investigation by sitting at PS. He did not seize the Original Birth certificate of
the victim.

13. Basing on the above evidence on record, let me decide the points

formulated for just decision of the case.

14. Point No.1: So far age of the victim is concerned, it appears that the
informant as PW 1 has proved the birth certificate of the victim as Exbt. 1 in
which the date of birth of the victim was mentioned as 17.03.2002. The victim
in her evidence as PW 2 has confirmed that her present age is about 16 years
(deposing on 19.05.2018) and she has appeared in HSLC Exams in 2018 and
her date of birth is 17.03.2002. PW 3 and PW 4 in their evidence also stated
that victim was aged about 16 years and she has passed the HSLC Exams in
the year 2018. PW 5, the M.O. in her evidence stated that basing upon
incomplete fusion of epiphysis of wrist joint, has opined that the victim is
below 18 years of age. This part of evidence so far age of the victim is
concerned remains unrebutted and unchallenged by the defence which is
otherwise also found reliable and trustworthy. Exbt. 1, birth certificate shows
the date of birth of the victim as 17.03.2002 and the alleged incident
happened on 26.09.2017. As such, on the date of alleged incident the victim

was aged about 15 years 6 months and 9 days.

15. Point No. If & Ill : Now coming to the role of the accused in
Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 7 of 13
causing the alleged incident of sexual assault and use of criminal force on the
victim, in the course of argument hearing, learned Special P.P. has submitted
that except the victim there was no other eye witness of this case and the
evidence of PW 1, PW 3 and PW 4 are relevant though they are hearsay
witness simply because soon after the incident, the victim has informed the
matter to PW 1 and thereafter PW 3 and PW 4 who came to the house of the
informant and from the victim (PW 2) they came to know about the incident.
All these witnesses corroborated the entire incident with minor exaggerations
from their earlier statement but supported the victim. Learned Special P.P. also
argued that the alleged incident happened on 26.09.2017, at about 5.30 PM
and on the same night the FIR (Exbt. 2) was lodged at Simaluguri P.S. It is
further argued that apart from the trustworthy evidence of the victim and her
relatives, the Medical Officer (PW 5) has also confirmed that during medical
examination conducted on the next day of the incident, one nail mark was
found on the right anterior aspect of arm of the victim which confirmed the
evidence of the victim of getting injury. On the other hand, learned Legal Aid
Counsel Mr. Aditya Kr. Bora has argued that the case was filed due to
misconception and while the victim fell down from her bi-cycle, the accused
was crossing the road and tried to pick up the victim with an intention to help
her to get her stand up from the road. It is further argued that there was no
sexual intent on the part of the accused while he tried to pick up the victim
from falling with cycle. Learned counsel also argued that apart from above, as
there was some previous enmity between the informant and the accused, by
taking advantage of this incident, accused was falsely implicated. As such,
accused deserves to be acquitted. | have considered the submission of both

the sides.

16. From the evidence narrated herein-before, particularly from the
evidence of the victim, it appears that she has vividly described about the
incident and categorically stated that on her way to returning home, while

crossing the lonely field, she saw that accused was coming from opposite

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 8 of 13
direction and on seeing her, he started coming on the road in zigzag manner,
hold on the handle of her cycle and forcefully stopped her from returning
home. On getting down from the bicycle, accused touched her both the
breasts. While making hue and cry, she tried to remove his hands, accused
tried to flee away and in this attempt, nail marks of accused embossed on her
right arm. On returning home she immediately informed the matter to her
brother Bikash Dutta and other relatives and on the same night she came to
Simaluguri P.S. This part of evidence of the victim remains unshaken. Though
some part of her evidence appears to have been exaggerated from her earlier
Statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C., but the main aspect that the accused forced her to
stop on the road and touched her body was not a part of exaggeration.
Though getting nail marks injury on her right arm was not stated before police,
but the medical officer (PW 5) during examination of the victim, has found one

nail marks in right anterior aspect of the arm.

17. Apart from all above, the victim has stated that after the incident
she was brought to court where she gave her statement vide Exbt. 3. On
going through the said statement (Exbt. 3), it appears that victim deposed in
similar line and clearly stated that accused touched her body and_ she raised
hue and cry and while removing his hands, nail scratch marks embossed on
her right arm. The victim also mentioned that accused was known to her prior

to the incident being a co-villager.

18. Under this circumstances, at the best she might have omit to
State the same before police but she has stated the same in Court u/s 164
Cr.P.C. As getting nail scratch bite is not going to the root of the case that
cannot be treated as contradiction. In this case for the charge u/s 8 of Pocso
Act, touching of breast is an offence of Sexual Assault, and that part was not a
part of exaggeration, the other exaggerations can be treated as mere omission
only. From her cross examination, it is proved that at the relevant time the
place was lonely and the victim was alone. The victim denied the defence

suggestion that on falling road from her bicycle, accused came near to her to

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 9 of 13
help her in getting up from the road. Though this suggestion was advanced by
defence, but while giving 313 Cr.P.C statements, accused did not take any
such plea that he tried to help the victim in getting up from the road, rather
accused has claimed this part of evidence as false. From the evidence of PW 1,
it also appears that on knowing the incident from the victim, he along with his
sister and other relatives came to Simaluguri P.S. and lodged the Exbt. 2 FIR.
From his cross, it appears that the place of occurrence is at a distance of
about half kilometer from his house and that no neighbouring persons
gathered at the place of occurrence. From the evidence of PW 3 and PW 4 it
also appears that soon after the incident they were called to the house of the
informant and from the victim they came to know about the incident as
narrated by the victim regarding touching her hands and body by the accused,

also embossing of nail marks on her arm which they saw.

19. As stated earlier on the next day of the incident, i.e. on
27.09.2017 the victim was examined at Sivasagar Civil Hospital and during
examination one nail marks in right anterior aspect of the arm of the victim
was found by the M.O. (PW 5). PW 6 is the 1.0. who has done the
investigation in routine manner. He has confirmed the matter of getting the
FIR (Exbt.2) on 26.09.2017 and that on the same night the victim was sent to
Hospital for medical examination, but she was advised to come on next day.
He also visited the place of occurrence and prepared sketch map vide Exbt.5.
On going through Exbt. 5, it appears that the place of occurrence is a lonely
place in between field and no residence is shown in and around the place of

occurrence.

20. On the point of evidentiary value of an injured/witness, Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India in the case of State of U.P. Vs Naresh & Others, (2011)
4 SCC 324 held as follows:
“27. The evidence of an injured witness must be given due weightage
being a stamped witness, thus, his presence cannot be doubted. His

Statement is generally considered to be very reliable and it is unlikely
that he has spared the actual assailant in order to falsely implicate

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 10 of 13
someone else. The testimony of an injured witness has its own relevancy
and efficacy as he has sustained injuries at the time and place of
occurrence and this lends support to his testimony that he was present
during the occurrence. Thus, the testimony of an injured witness is
accorded a special status in law. The witness would not like or want to
let his actual assailant go unpunished merely to implicate a third person
falsely for the commission of the offence. Thus, the evidence of the
injured witness should be relied upon unless there are grounds for the
rejection of his evidence on the basis of major contradictions and
discrepancies therein.”

21. It may be noted here that apart from the charge of Sexual Assault
accused was also charged with use of criminal force upon the victim. From the
above discussion it is clear that by stopping her cycle, touching her body also
amount to use of criminal force on the victim and the said offence is also

proved beyond doubt.

2 From the totality of the fact, it appears that, defence failed to
bring any material to disbelieve the prosecution evidence, particularly the
evidence of the victim. Evidence of victim is found reliable and trustworthy to
the extent of sexual assault and use of criminal force on her by the accused

Bipin Mech.

23. To sum up the discussion, | hold that prosecution has able to
prove the ingredients of offence sexual assault as defined u/s 7 of Pocso Act

and use of criminal force upon the victim as defined u/s 351 IPC.

24. Considering all above, | have no hesitation to hold that accused
Bipin Mech has committed the offence punishable u/s 8 of the Pocso Act 2012
& also u/s 352 of the IPC of and he is held guilty for the aforesaid offences.

25. | have considered the applicability of Section 3 & 4 of Probation of
Offenders Act in this case. In view of the nature of the offence proved by the
prosecution, | am not inclined to extend the benefit of Section 3 and 4 of

Probation of Offenders Act to the accused.

26. Heard the accused on the point of sentence. His statement is

recorded in separate sheets. | have also heard learned Advocate for both the

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 11 of 13
sides. Learned Special PP has prayed for awarding exemplary punishment for
the accused as provided by section 8 of Pocso Act. Learned Legal Aid Counsel
has prayed for leniency in sentence and submitted that as the accused is in J ail
custody since 10.02.2018, the period already undergone should be treated as

sufficient punishment. | have considered the submission of both the sides.

27. Considering all aspects, convict Bipin Mech is sentenced to
undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI) for 3 (three) years for committing the
offence punishable U/S 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 and also to pay a fine of Rs.
2000/- (Rupees two thousand) only i/d further SI of 1 (one) month. Convict
Bipin Mech is also sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment (SI) for 1 (one)
month for committing the offence punishable U/S 352 IPC. Both the sentences

of imprisonment shall run concurrently.

28. As the convict has faced the trial as UTP, he is remanded to

District J ail, Sivasagar to serve out the remaining part of sentence.

29. Convict Bipin Mech is entitled for the benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C.

for the period already undergone during investigation and trial.

30. It is provided that in the event of realization of fine amount, the

entire amount be paid to the victim as compensation u/s 357 Cr.P.C.

31. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the matter is

not referred to DLSA Sivasagar for compensation U/S 357A Cr.P.C.

32. Let a free of cost copy of the judgment be given to the convict

Bipin Mech immediately as per the provisions of Section 363(1) Cr.P.C.

33. Convict Bipin Mech is informed about his right of appeal against
the judgment and order of conviction and sentence before Hon'ble Gauhati High
Court within 60 days either by appointing his own advocate or though legal aid

panel advocate or by way of Jail Appeal.

34, Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 12 of 13
30: Learned Legal Aid Counsel is entitled for his professional fees from

DLSA Sivasagar as per rules.

36. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this 18" day of September,
2018 at Sivasagar.

Special | udge,
Sivasagar:

APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses :
P.W.1- Sri Bikash Dutta (Informant)
P.W.2- Victim 'P'
P.W.3- Smt. Rumi Dutta
P.W.4- Smt. Mamoni Dutta
P.W.5- Dr. Laxmi Deori (M.O.)
P.W.6- SI Ujjal Goswami (1.0.)

2. Defence witnesses - None
3. Court witnesses : - None

4. Exhibits by prosecution :
Exbt.1 - Birth certificate
Exbt.2 - FIR
Exbt.3 - Statement of the victim given U/S 164 Cr.P.C
Exbt.4 - Medical report
Exbt.5 - Sketch map
Exbt.6 - Charge-Sheet

 

Special J udge,
Sivasagar:

Spl. (P) Case No. 45/2017 Page 13 of 13
