IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::::::: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.12/2017

State of Assam
Versus
Md Gaji Rahman Paramanik @ Chati ..... Accused

Present: Smti Mitali Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State : Mr M.K.Ghose Special P.P.

Ld. advocate for the accused : Mr A.S.Talukdar

Evidence recorded on : 15.5.18, 20.6.18 and 08.5.19,
Argument heardon =: 26.3.2019
Judgment delivered on: 26.3.2019

JUDGEMENT

1. The prosecution story in brief is that on 22.02.2017 the
informant Mosstt Joyton Begum, elder sister of the victim lodged the first
information report before the Officer-in-charge of Fakiragram Police Station
stating that on 21.02.17 at about 7 P.M. the accused Gaji Rahman Paramanik
took shelter in the back side of the house of the informant with a pre-plan
taking advantage of darkness and at that time the informant's younger sister
Miss Hamida Begum went out for her nature's call, when the accused forcibly
abducted the victim Miss Hamida Begum and committed rape on her. Hence,

the first information report.
Special Case No.12/17

2

2. On receipt of the first information report in Fakiragram P.S. the
case was registered as Fakiragram P.S. case No.15/2017 under sections
366(A)/354/376 of IPC and the case was endorsed to S.I. Imran Ali Sk. for
investigation. During investigation the I.O. visited to the place of occurrence
and recorded the statement of the witnesses including the victim girl and after
completion of the investigation the charge sheet has been filed by the [.O.
under sections 366(A)/354/376 of IPC, R.W. section 4 of POCSO Act against
the accused Gaji Rahman Paramnik.
De After filing of the charge sheet and on appearance of the accused
person and after hearing both sides my learned predecessor framed the charge
under sections 366/354 of IPC, R.W. section 4 of POCSO Act against the
accused Gaji Rahman Paramanik. The charges were read over and explained
to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
4. The prosecution side examined as many as 04 (four) witnesses
including the victim and the informant as follows:-

PW 1 Musst Hamida Begum (Victim),

PW 2 Musstt Joyton Begum (Informant),

PW3 Mosstt Sanaton Begum and

PW4 Mosstt Jamela Bibi.
5. The accused person took the plea of total denial while recording
his statement under section 313 of Cr.P.C., and declined to adduce any
evidence.

Points for determination:

(i) Whether the accused kidnapped the victim Hamida Begum

for the purpose of committing rape on her ?

(ii) Whether the accused outraged modesty of the victim Hamida

Begum ?
Special Case No.12/17

3
(iii) Whether the accused committed the offence of penetrative
sexual assault to the minor victim ?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

 

6. To arrive at a just decision I have thoroughly perused the
evidence of the prosecution witnesses, assessed them and heard argument put
forwarded of both sides and the case is decided as follows:-

7. PW1, victim of this case deposed that when she was studying
for her H.S.L.C. Examination the accused Gaji Rahman Paramanik contacted
her over mobile phone and asked her to go to the back side of Sajan mandir
and accused sent her SMS message informing her that he reached in the said
place. Further she deposed that she initially refused to go and then he told her
that he had some important matters to discuss with her and asked her to come
to the back side of Sajan Mandir and thereafter she visited to the back side of
Sajan Mandir to meet the accused and the accused forcibly committed rape on
her. She also stated that about 4/5 months prior to the incident when she was
attending class of Maths with the accused, he told her that he loves her and
wants to marry her and then she raised objection and told that you are a
married person. Further stated that she had love affairs with the accused.
Thereafter her elder sister lodged the first information report. In cross
evidence she stated that she could not say what happened on the day of
incident and she also could not say who took her to the Sajan Mandir and
committed rape on her. She further stated in her cross evidence that she
mentioned the name of the accused Gaji Rahman Paramanik on suspicion as
he was proposed to marry her.

8. PW2, Informant of this case stated that the incident took place
on 21.02.17 at about 7 P.M. when her younger sister Hamida Begum was

preparing for her H.S.L.C. Examination and she was busy in another room
Special Case No.12/17

4

and her mother was preparing food in the kitchen. She further deposed that at
about 7 P.M. Hamida Begum went outside to attend her nature's call but, she
did not return even after 10/15 minutes and thereafter her another sister
Sanatun Begum went outside to look for Hamida and all the family members
were busy in searching Hamida Begum and thereafter they found Hamida
Begum near Sajan Mandir in a senseless condition and all cloths were torned
and they brought her to their house. She further deposed that when they
enquired about her she stated that she went out for nature's call when one
person came and gagged her mouth and committed rape on her. She further
stated that she could not identify the person properly but, stated that he might
be accused Gaji Rahman Paramanik and she lodged the first information
report on the next day. In cross evidence she stated that they brought their
sister from the Sajan Mandir in the night as she was unconscious and on
enquiry she stated that she could not identify the person due to darkness and
she lodged the FIR on suspicion as accused earlier proposed to marry her
sister Hamida.

9. PW3 deposed in his evidence that the victim Hamida Begum is
her younger sister and on the day of incident at about 7 P.M. her younger
sister went outside for her nature's call but, even after of long time she did not
retumn home and they searched for her going outside but, she could not be
traced out. She further deposed that they informed their elder sister over
phone and on her arrival they again went to search her and finally they found
her near Sajan Mandir in unconscious state. Further on enquiry she stated that
she could not identify the person who took her near Sajan Mandir and she had
on suspicion on the accused Gaji Rahman and thereafter stated that she could
not identify the person who committed rape on her as she was semi-

unconscious state. In her cross evidence she stated that she has no grievance
Special Case No.12/17

5

against the accused Gaji Rahman if he is acquitted from this case and the FIR
was lodged by her elder sister only on suspicion.

10. PW4, Mother of the informant and victim of this case deposed
that on the day of incident she was preparing food and her daughter Hamida
was studying for her HSLC Examination and her daughter went outside for
her nature's call and she even after lapse of long time she did not return home
and they searched for her going outside but, she could not be traced out. She
further deposed that they informed her son over phone and on his arrival they
again searched her and finally they found her daughter near Sajan Mandir in
unconscious state and brought her to their house. Further on enquiry she
stated that she could not identify the person who took her near Sajan Mandir
and she had on suspicion on the accused Gaji Rahman and thereafter stated
that she could not identify the person who committed rape on her as she was
semi-unconscious state. In cross evidence she stated that she has no grievance
against the accused Gaji Rahman if he is acquitted from this case and the FIR
was lodged by her elder sister only on suspicion.

11. So, from the discussion made above it is seen that except the
victim none of the witnesses saw the incident. PW2, PW3 and PW4 found the
PW1 near Sajan Mandir in unconscious state. But, they came to know from
PW1 that a person came and took her gagging her mouth to Sajan Mandir
when she went for her nature's call and committed rape on her. But, she could
not identify the person though it was similar to the accused. The informant
then lodged the FIR on suspicion as the accused earlier proposed to marry the
victim. But, it is the settled principle of criminal jurisprudence that “suspicion

however strong, cannot take place of legal proof”. Prosecution has to prove
Special Case No.12/17

6

the case beyond all reasonable doubt. There is no corroborating evidence that
the accused had committed rape on the victim nor there is any evidence that
accused had sexual assault on the minor victim.
12. So from the detail discussion made above, it is seen that the
prosecution could not establish the case against the accused Gaji Rahman
Paramanik under sections 366/354 of IPC, R.W. section 4 of POCSO Act
beyond all shadow of doubt and hence giving the benefit of doubt I hereby
acquit the accused and set him at liberty forthwith.

The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the Court on this 26th March/2019 at Kokrajhar Court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
