Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accusedwu/s :

313 of CrPC.
Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel. of. the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

27 OF 2016
(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, arising
out of GR Case No 2505 of 2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

State of Assam
-Vs-
1.Sri Emil Herenj,
S/o Late Atowa_Herenj,
Vill — Ghopai.TE ( No 5 line).
P.S.— Dhekiajuli,
Dist- Sonitpur.
25-10-2017
13-11-2017,08-12-2017.

08-12-2017.

08-12-2017.
08-12-2017.

Mr Munindra Ch Baruah,
Public Proecutor,

Sonitpur.

Mr B Borthakur, Advocate.
Page |2

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Emil Herenj is put for trial for the allegation of
charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that on or about
2.30 PM of 04-06-2016, accused Emil Herenj committed rape on informant’s minor
sister and then accused fled away from the house. The accused is the husband of
informant. On 05-08-2016, local public caught the accused and handed him over to

police. Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the complainant Smti Sabina Herenj before
the i/c Rakhasmari Out Post on 05-08-2016.

4. On receipt of the ejahar, I/C Rakhasmari Out Post by giving a GD
Entry NO 77 dated 05-08-2016 and forwarded the ‘same to OC, Dhekiajuli PS. Upon
receipt of the ejahar, OC, Dhekiajuli Police Station registered the case vide Dhekiajuli
Police Station Case No 532/16 under.Section 376(2)(1) of IPC, r/w Section 4 of
POCSO Act. After completion of investigation, O/C, Dhekiajuli Police Station sent up
the case against the accused under Section 4 of POCSO Act.

5. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
the parties, charge framed under Section 6 of POCSO Act. Particulars of the charge
were read over, explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed
to be tried.

6. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as three
witnesses i.e. the complainant, victim and other most material witness. After
examination of the victim, learned Counsel for the accused submitted to close the
prosecution evidence on the ground that neither the complainant nor the victim
could reveals any materials as to any of the alleged offence. I have also heard the

learned Special PP.

7. I have thoroughly perused the statement of PW1, PW2-the

complainant and PW3-the victim. It appears that neither the complainant nor the
Page |3

victim or other independent witness supported the prosecution case in any way.
Therefore, I think that it would be futile to examine the other witnesses. Even if
examined the other witnesses, prosecution case would not develop. Speedy trial is
the right of the accused person. Considering these all, prosecution evidence is

closed.

8. Accused is examined under Section 313 CrPC and the evidence
appears against the accused person and the allegations made against the accused
person are put before me for his explanation where they denied the allegations, and

declined to give defence evidence.

9. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned Counsel for
both the sides.
10. The point for decision in this case is that =

(1) "Whether on 04-08-2016, at about 3.30 PM, at
Line NO 5 of Chapai Tea Estate, under Dhekiajuli
PS, accused committed penetrative sexual assault
on Miss "X”.(aged about 8 years) and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 6
of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

11. To afrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidences on
record.
12: PW1 — Sri Phagu Kerketa @ Fagu deposed that he knows the accused

Emil.Herenj. The incident occurred on 04-08-2016 in the evening time. Victim was
about eight years old. There was a hue and cry when accused fled away after
committing rape on the victim. Victim is the sister-in-law of the accused. Then they
took victim along with the accused who was caught by local public to the police
station. The wife of accused Sabina Herenj filed ejahar before police. The victim was

medically examine by doctor and sent to the Court for recording her statement.

In cross-examination he stated that he does not have any personal
Page |4

knowledge about the incident. He has not asked the victim about the incident. He

does not know if accused bath the victim by opening her clothes as a brother-in-law.

13. PW2 Smti Sabina Herenj is the complainant of this case. She deposed
that the accused is her husband. The incident occurred on 04-08-2016 in the evening
time. Victim “X” is her sister. At the relevant time she was about eight years old. At
the relevant time, accused put off the clothes of her sister “X” but, he did not
commit any rape. Then local public caught accused. For that incident, a ‘Hulasthul’
took place. Thereafter, he filed the ejahar before police on the allegation that
accused after committing rape to her sister fled away from the house. In the said
ejahar he put her thumb impression. The victim was medically examined by doctor
and sent to the Court for recording her statement. The victim girl made statement
before the local public that accused committed rape on her by putting off her
clothes. I accompanied the victim to the Court. Her mother.took zimma of her victim
sister.

In cross-examination, she stated that\the ejahar was written by one
police of Rakshasmari Police Out Post as per direction of police of Rakshasmari Police
out post. He does not know the contents»of.the ejahar. She admitted that she did not
state before the police that “the victim «girl made statement before local public that
accused committed rape on her by putting off her clothes”. She further added that at
the pressure of local public, she had to file the ejahar before the police. In fact

accused did not do any Such.act to her sister as alleged in the ejahar.

14. PW3.— Smti “X” the victim of this case is examined after making
enquiry to<justify her intelligence and ability to rational understanding. She stated
that the accused I s her brother-in-law. They called them as a “Bhatu”. “Bhatu” did
not-commit any “Khed”. “Khed” means rape. He also did not rape her. At the time of
incident, he went to her sister’s house to play with the baby of her sister. After filing
the case, she was examined and also sent her to learned Magistrate to record her
statement.

In cross-examination, he admitted that she cannot say whether she

went to the Court to give statement or not.

15. These much is the prosecution evidence.
Page |5

16. The accused pleaded total denial while his statement was recorded
under Section 313 of the CrPC.

17. The accused persons are charged under Section 6 of POCSO Act. The
law is well settled that in this type of case, statement of victim is much more
important when the victim is an extreme minor, then, the statement of her guardian
is also taken into consideration including the evidence of doctor. Here in the present
case, the accused is charged under Section 6 of POCSO Act. Prosecution must prove
that accused committed “aggravated penetrative sexual assault to the victim’.Again,
to prove charge under Section 6 of POCSO Act, prosecution must prove the
ingredients as defined in Section 5(u) of POCSO Act. According to. 5(u) of POCSO
Act, “aggravated penetrative sexual assault comes when. accused committed

penetrative sexual assault on a child below 12 years".

18. Coming to the present case, in the instant case, no doubt according to
prosecution story, victim's age is eight years. According to doctor, who gives findings
after thorough examination of victim, the .victim was below eight years. So,

apparently in this case, the victim is only:eight years old i.e. below twelve years.

19. Now let us seen how._the evidence of prosecution could convict the
accused in the alleged charge. According to complainant, at the relevant time,
accused put off the clothe.of her sister(PW2-victim), but, he did not commit any
rape. Then local public caught accused, for that incident, a ‘Hulasthul’ took place.
Thereafter, she filed. the ejahar before the police on the allegation that accused after
committing. rape to her sister fled away from the house. In cross-examination, she
admitted thatthough she filed the ejahar, but, she does not know the contents of
the-ejahar. She also admitted that she did not state before police that “the victim girl
made-statement before local public that accused committed rape on her by putting
off her clothes”. Therefore, the aforesaid statement is a contradictory. Secondly, the
complainant again admitted that on the day of incident, her husband(accused) took
her victim sister to the side of Tube well to bath her by putting off her clothes. At the
pressure of local public, she has to file the ejahar before the police. In fact accused

did not do any such act.

20. Next, come to the deposition of victim-PW2. The victim stated that
Page |6

accused is her brother-in-law. They called brother-in-law as “Bhatu”. Her brother-in-
law i.e. accused never commits any rape. At the relevant time, she was taken to the
house of her sister to look after the baby of her sister. She again reiterated that her
“Bhatu” did not do any misdeed to her. These much is the evidence of complainant

and victim.

21. From the statement of any of the witnesses it could be understood
that accused committed penetrative sexual assault to the victim. Statement of none
of the witnesses have been whisper any material of penetrative sexual assault»Under
such circumstances, the charge under Section 6 of POCSO Act as alleged in the case
against the accused is failed. Therefore, I have no option, but, aequit,the accused

Emil Herenj from the alleged charge and set him at liberty forthwith.

23% The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

24. Send back the LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 8” day of
Deceber, 2017.

(A. K. Borah)

Sessions Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Dictated and corrected by me.

(A. K. Borah)
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |7

APPENDIX

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Sri Phagu Kerketa @ Fagu,
2.PW2 — Smti Sabina Herenj- complainant &

3.PW3 — Smti “X” (victim).

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

1. Nil.

(A. K. Borah)
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
