IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 20(DH) 2018.

U/S 4 of POCSO Act.

(G.R. Case No.258/2018 (SLP), Silapathar P.S. Case No.107/2018 Under
Section 4 of POCSO Act)
The State of Assam
- Versus —
Shri Fulson Jimey ................. Accused Person
S/O Lt. Dhaniram Jimey,
R/O Tongani Maj Gaon,
P.S. Silapathar,
Dist.- Dhemaji.

(l Appearance:

“a” Shri A. Fogla,

ape ae PU bs For the State
SmtiIlaBorgohain == |... For the Accused
Date of prosecution evidence : 05-07-2018
Date of argument : 02-08-2018

Date of Judgment : 02-08-2018.
JUDGMENT:

 

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 18-3-2018 complainant-
Smt. Bidyawati Morang , W/O Bhisma Nath Morang, R/O Tongani Maj Gaon,
P.S. Silapathar, District- Dhemaji lodged an ejahar with Silapathar Police
Station alleging interalia that about 1 months ago ( from the date of filing
the ejahar on 18-3-2018) the accused-Fulson Jimey taking advantage of
absence of other family members at home, came to their house and
committed rape on her daughter-Smti ‘x’ (name is withheld) inside their
house. It is stated in the ejahar that the victim girl is a physically
handicapped one.

2: On receipt of the ejahar police registered a case vide Silapathar
P.S. Case No.107/2018 u/s 4 of the POCSO Act. Police started investigation
and on completion of investigation submitted Charge-sheet against the
accused-Fulson Jimey u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.

5. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act and read-over and
explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The prosecution, in order to
prove its case, examined two witnesses. On perusal of evidence of witnesses
, it is seen that the witness did not implicate the accused as to the
involvement in the alleged commission of offence. However, the accused was
examined u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

4. Point for determination :

 

(1) That you, about 1 % months prior to the date of filing the
ejahar dated 18-3-2018 inside the house of the complainant at Village
Tongani Majgaon under Silapathar Police Station, committed
penetrative sexual assault on Smti ‘X’, a minor girl aged about 16
years and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act.

oi I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof :

6. PW1 Smti Bidyawati Morang stated that she is the complainant.
She knows the accused. The incident took place about 3 months back (from
the date of her deposition). ON the day of occurrence her daughter (victim)
was alone at home. When she came home her daughter (victim) told that the
accused came to their house and she shouted and then the accused left.
They thought that the accused abused their daughter. They informed the
police and lodged complaint. Police got the victim medically examined but did
not find any sign of sexual intercourse. He daughter (victim) is not suffering
from any sexual abuse. Theyy lodged the complaint on suspicion. Exhibit-1 is
the ejahar and Ext-1(1) is her signature therein.

e PW2 Smti ‘xX’ stated that she knows the accused. The
occurrence took place about %4 months ago. She was at home. Accused came
to their house. Then she shouted and accused left. (the victim cannot speak
fluently/clearly and her mother assisted the Court in recording her
statement).

8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that
in this case the complainant and the victim girl were examined as P.W-1 and
PW2 respectively. In their evidence both the vital witnesses stated that on
the date of occurrence the accused came to their house in absence of other
family members at home. Victim then shouted and the accused left. The
victim only was at home on that day. PW2 the victim categorically stated that
the accused came to their house and then she shouted. The accused then left
the place. From the evidence of the P.Ws, it is seen that the parties have
compromised the case outside the Court and hence they are not inclined to
proceed in this case against the accused. Prosecution side declined to
examine the remaining witnesses on the ground that examination of other
witnesses will not improve the prosecution case at all.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offence. I find that the prosecution has totally failed to prove the
charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused.

10. In view of the above, I find accused-Fulson Jimey not guilty
u/s 4 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charge leveled
against him. Set him at liberty forthwith.

ik Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 2"4 day
of August/ 2018.

(wk

ed

aan
Dhehi JI.
