Page 1 of 16

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s

313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date.of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

15 OF 2016

( 341/376 of the IPC and Section 4 of
the POCSO Act, arising out of G.R. Case
No. 2294 of 2014)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS

Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-Vs-
Md. Alia Ali @, Kalia,
Son of Late Ramjan Ali,
Resident of Puthimari
Police Station — Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam.
03/08/2016
31/08/2016, 07/01/2017
& 15/03/2017

07-04-2017.

07-04-2017

07-04-2017

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr.P.K. Sarmah, Advocate.

 
Page 2 of 16

JUDGMENT

1. In this case the accused Md. Alia Ali @ Kalia is put for trial 341 and
376 of the IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act.

Zi The factual matrix of the case in brief is that on or about 12 Q’clock of
day of 16-09-2014, the informant’s 13 years old minor sister Miss.X was. taken
to accused’s house for giving her treatment. Accordingly, in. the name of
treatment accused confined her and committed rape on her.,As’a result,
informant’s sister sustained grievous injuries. When the matter was informed to
the family members of the accused, the accused fled away from his house.
Then son of the accused took the victim to Tezpur Civil Hospital for treatment.
His sister was in treatment till the filing of the ejahar. Hence this prosecution

CaSe.

3. The ejahar was filed by the-complainant Md. Ali Ahmed before the I/C
of Bihaguri police O/P, the 1/C Bihaguri Police O/P by giving G.D Entry No. 276
dated 18-09-2014 forwarded the same to O/C Tezpur P.S for registering a
case. On receipt the ejahar the O/C Tezpur P.S. registered the case vide Tezpur
Case No. 1104/14 under Section 341, 376 of the IPC and under Section 4 of
POCSO ActOnxcompletion of investigation, the O/C of Tezpur PS sent up the
case for trial against the accused under Section 341, 376 of the IPC and under
Section 4 of POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
parties, framed charge under section 341, 376 of the IPC and section 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused and particulars of the charge was read
over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not guilty and claims to be
tried.

 
Page 3 of 16

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 10 (ten)
numbers of witnesses which includes the informant, victim, other witnesses and

the Investigating Officer.

6. After completion of prosecution evidence accused is examined u/s 313
Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and evidence appears
against the accused are put before him for explanation where he denied the

evidence and allegation and declined to give defence evidence.

7. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned.counsels of both
sides.
8. The points for decision in this case are\that:

i) Whether on or about 12 O'clock of dayson 16-09-2014, at village
Puthimari under Tezpur Police \station the accused wrongfully
restrained Miss X and thereby. committed an offence punishable u/s
341 of the IPC?

ii) Whether the accused\on the same date, time and place as
mentioned above;committed rape on Miss X and thereby committed
an offence punishable u/s 376 of the IPC?

iii) Whether: the. accused on the same date, time and place as
mentioned above, committed penetrative sexual assault on Miss X
(victim) and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section
4.of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on
record.

10. PW -1 Md. Ali Ahmed, the complainant of this case, has stated before
the Court that he knows the accused Alia Ali, who is his neighbour. Victim is his
younger sister. The occurrence took place in the year 2014. At that time, he

was not at home. At about 12 O’ clock he came to know about the incident

 
Page 4 of 16

from his mother Bhomri Begum. At that time his younger sister was crying. His
mother informed him that when his younger sister went to the house of the
accused for treatment (jorafuka) then the accused forcibly committed rape on
her. Thereafter, he along with his mother informed about the incident to the
villagers. Thereafter, the family members of the accused took his sister to the
Kanaklata Civil hospital, Tezpur. On being come to know that the aforesaid case
was a rape case so, the hospital authority demand police requisition, then the
family members of the accused took his sister to BJ Hospital where she. was
treated for about 4 days. After three days of the occurrence he filed the ejahar.
Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. As the accused person
threatened them to kill if they informed the matter,to.police.therefore out of
fear, it becomes delay in three days in filing the ‘ejahar. After instituting the
case police took his sister for examination and also took her to the learned

Magistrate for recording her statement. Police recorded his statement.

In cross-examination, he admitted that before the incident took place
there was some quarrel took place between the accused and them. Ejahar was
written by one scribe as._per his dictation. He cannot say in the ejahar it is
mentioned that his sister. was.treated at Civil Hospital. Police Out Post is
situated near their.house. Though they have been used to go market by
crossing the Police out»Post but they have not informed the matter to police
during that time. At present he is 22 years old. The victim is just younger to
him. There is one house in between the house of the accused and his house.
Bhutuba ‘resides in a house adjacent to the house of the accused. They have
informed the matter to Noor Mohmmad, Sahid Ali and Eye specialist (village

doctor) and village Gaonburha before filing the ejahar.

11. =PW-2 Bhomri Begum, the mother of the victim, stated that he knows
the accused Alia Ali, who is her neighbour. The complainant is her son. The
occurrence took place about two years ago. At that time while her daughter
went to bring the cattle she has suffering from some illness. At that time, they
took her daughter to the house of the accused to give her native treatment

(jorafuka). Accused asked her to bring her daughter to next Tuesday to give

 
Page 5 of 16

her proper treatment (jorafuka). Accordingly she took her daughter to the
house of the accused at about 12 O’ clock. Then accused asked her to go out
from the room stating that she should not be present in the room where he
performed treatment (jorafuka). After half an hour she came out from the
room. When they arrived at home, her another daughter Afsana Begum told
that victim reported to her to call her brother as she was suffering from serious
ailment so victim asked him to took her to hospital. Then they went to the
house of the accused and reported them that her victim daughter, informed
that the accused have committed rape on her daughter. . Then. accused
arranged a Magic to take her victim daughter to the Civil hospitals, As the case
was a rape case so, the hospital authority demand police.requisition, then the
family members of the accused took her daughter to. BJ. Hospital where she was
treated for about 4 days. After three days of the occurrence her son filed the
ejahar. As the accused person threatened, them_to kill if they informed the
matter to police therefore out of fear, it becomes delay in three days in filing
the ejahar. After instituting the case police took her daughter for medical
examination and also took»her ‘to the learned Magistrate for recording her

statement.

In cross-examination, she admitted that her marriage consummated
about 30 years ago. After about one year of marriage, her first male child was
born. Then after about 2 years another boy was born but he was died. After
about two years Ali Ahmed was born. Then she became pregnant but it was
aborted at about five months. After about two years Rohima Begum was born.
At.the time of treatment ((jorafuka), there were 4/5 numbers of persons at the
outside of the house of the accused. After treatment (jorafuka) her victim
daughter came out by crying. At home, her victim daughter informed her sister
Afsana about the incident. Thereafter, she told her about the incident. They
informed the matter to the local public including the village headman. But some
of the villagers asked them not to file the case before the police as the accused
person requested them. Noor Mohmad told him not to inform the matter to

police. Near the house of the accused, there are houses of five persons but she

 
Page 6 of 16

cannot recall the name of anyone of them at present. Police recorded her

statement and also recorded the statement of her victim daughter.

12. PW- 3 Smt. Dharmeswari Boro, who turned hostile, stated that she
knows the accused Alia Ali, who is her neighbour. She also know the Victim and
the complainant. The occurrence took place about two years ago. After the
incident the mother of the victim reported her that her daughter/victim.took the
house of the accused for giving her native treatment (jorafuka), there the

accused administered the victim some treated water.

13. PW- 4 Smt. Nayanmoni Boro has stated that she does not know the
accused. She has been doing service of Nurse at BJ Hospital*for last 31/2 years.
Sometimes patient were come willingly and sometimes taken by police. She

does not know about the incident.
14. PW-5 Sri Arun Sah stated nothing against the accused.

15. PW-6 Khairun Begum, stated that.the accused is her husband. She also
knows the victim and the complainant:,About two years ago, one night at about
10 p.m. the victim was brought by her mother told them that her daughter was
crying as she was suffering from some unknown ailments. Then her husband
treated her native treatment (jorafuka). The victim was again called to come on
12 O’ clock onsthe next day. Accordingly, the victim came. Her husband treated
the victim and gave her some treated water. They were seated at the outside
of the\room where her husband treated the victim. At about 7/8 p.m. the
mother of the victim informed her that victim was suffering from bleeding as a
result of administering treated water. Thereafter, as the advice of villagers they

took the victim to the civil hospital.

In cross-examination, she admitted that there was a previous enmity in

between them.

16. PW-7 the victim Miss X stated that the incident took place on 13-09-
2014. At about 12 O’ clock while she went to tether her cattle she fell down

after dizziness. They suspected that some unseen spirit has attacked her. In the

 
Page 7 of 16

morning at about 9 a.m. accused treated her by “jarafuka”. At about 12 O’clock
she again went to the house of the accused, accused gave her some treated
water to drink. She was asked to open her “paijama” and inserted his fingers
into her private parts. She was also asked to take some tablet and she became
senseless. After half an hour she regained her senses and noticed blood was
oozing from her private parts. While she asked the accused about the oozing of
blood accused hold her mouth and threatened her not to disclose to anybody. If
she disclosed she and her family members would be killed. Out of fear, initially,
she did not inform the matter to her mother but informed about the incident to
her sister Afsana. Lateron Afsana informed the matter to her mother. Then she
also reported the matter to her mother and brothermShe“also informed the
whole matter to the wife of the accused but wife of the accused told her that
her husband never committed any misdeed..Then she was taken to Civil
hospital. While authority of Civil Hospital asked them about police reference
then she was removed to BJ hospital, where»she stayed for about 6 days.
Thereafter, her brother filed this ‘case. After the incident she was examined by
the doctor. Her statement..u/s 164\Cr.P.C. was also recorded through the
Magistrate. Ext. 2 is her 164 Cr.P.C. statement and Ext. 2(1) to 2(6) are her
signatures.

In cross-examination, she admitted that while she was taken by

accused to his.room at about 12 O’clock, there was no person seated in the
verandah. Her mother etc. were standing under the Bamboo grooves. There
were even‘no any family members of the accused near the room where she
was alleged to be treated.
17. PW-8, Sri Uttam Tamang, one of the Investigating Officer of this case,
has stated before the Court that on 25-07-2015 he was posted as Incharge of
Bihaguri Police Out Post. On that day, the then O/C Tezpur PS entrusted him to
complete the remaining part of the investigation of Tezpur PS Case No.
1104/14 u/s 341/376 of the IPC. On examination of the case diary, he came to
know that his predecessor I.O. SI Subleswar Deka has almost completed the
investigation. Therefore, after examination of the case diary, he filed charge
sheet against the accused u/s 341/376 of the IPC and u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.

 
Page 8 of 16

18. PW 9 Sri Subleswar Deka, stated that on 19-09-2014 he was posted as
Incharge of Bihaguri Police Out Post. On receipt of an ejahar submitted by Ali
Ahmed after giving GD Entry No. 276 dated 18-09-2014 sent the same to O/C
Tezpur Police station for registering a case. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(2) is
my signature with note. Ext. 1(3) is the signature of Inspector of Police Sri
Harin Chandra Deka. He registered the case vide Tezpur PS Case No.1104/14
u/s 341/376 of the IPC. He recorded the statement of the witnesses..He has
also sent the victim for medical examination. He prepared the sketch map, vide
Ext.4 and sent the victim to the court for recording her statement.u/s 164
Cr.P.C. When the investigation of the case was almost completed, on being
transferred he handed over the case diary to the then O/G.of Tezpur Police
station. The witness Dharmeswari Boro stated beforeshim that the accused in
the name of treatment (jarafuka) inserted his, finger into the vagina of the

victim.

19. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence plea is
total denial while his statement was*recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

20. Learned counsel for accused, submitted that it is true that in this type of
cases only one is sufficienti.e« the victim if her statement is trust-worthy,
without ambiguous»and “believable to convict the accused but here in the
present case there is many ambiguity in the statement of the victim. Firstly,
other than victim,the parents, i.e. the PW 1 and 2, who admitted that they have
a quarrelvand.as such bitter enmity with the accused person. Secondly, in the
statement of the victim, the victim stated that the incident took place on 13-09-
2014.whereas in her statement made before the learned Magistrate she stated
that the incident took place on 26-09-2014. In the ejahar, the informant stated
that the incident took place on 16-09-2014. Again in her statement made
before the police u/s 161 Cr.P.C. she stated that the incident took place on 16-
09-2014. Thirdly, the I.0. stated that the victim did not state to him as a result
of administering tablet she became unconscious, after half an hour she
regained her senses and she noticed blood was oozing from her private parts.

Fourthly, the I.O0. has failed to procure the birth certificate or age certificate or

 
Page 9 of 16

any school certificate or any certificate from the local Panchayat to show the
age of the victim. That apart, the Doctor’s report stated that the age mentioned
in the report is not based on ossification test. Therefore, the age of the victim is
also doubtful. Under such circumstances, prosecution has ably failed to prove
the charge against the accused beyond any reasonable doubt. Hence, prayed to
acquit the accused.

21. On the other hand, learned Public Prosecutor submitted that
prosecution has ably proved the alleged charge levelled against the accused, as

such, accused is required to be convicted.

22. Keeping in mind the respective submissions\advanced by learned

counsel for both parties, I am going to dispose of the,.case. as. follows.

23. A close scrutiny of the record, it appears,that here there is only one eye

witness i.e. the PW 7 who is the victim inthis case.

24. The law is settled that the main, evidence in all such cases is that of the
victim herself. In practice a conviction*for rape almost entirely depends on the
credibility of the woman, so far_as ‘the essential ingredients are concerned, the
other evidence being merely corroborative. It is not necessary that there should
be independent corroboration of every material circumstance in the sense that
the independent. evidence in the case, apart from the testimony of the
complainant, ‘should in itself be sufficient to sustain conviction. All that is
required is that there must be some additional evidence rendering it probable
that the story of the complainant is true and that is reasonable safe to act
upon. The evidence, no doubt, should not only make it safe to believe that the
crime was committed but must in some way reasonably connect or tend to
connect the accused with the crime. Corroboration may be by facts and

circumstances.

25. Now, the question comes how far the evidence of the victim is reliable

and convincible to convict the accused.

 
Page 10 of 16

According to the victim, as stated in evidence before this court that the
incident took place on 13-09-2014. At about 12 O’ clock while she went to
tether her cattle she fell down after dizziness. They suspected that some
unseen spirit has attacked her. In the morning at about 9 a.m. accused treated
her by “jarafuka”. At about 12 O’clock she again went to the house of the
accused, accused gave her some treated water to drink. She was asked to open
her “paijama” and inserted his fingers into her private parts. She was also
asked to take some tablet and she became senseless. After half an hour she
regained her senses and noticed blood was oozing from her private.parts. While
she asked the accused about the oozing of blood accused hold\her mouth and
threatened her not to disclose to anybody. If she disclosed she and her family
members would be killed. Out of fear, initially, she didsnot inform the matter to
her mother but informed about the incident to her sister Afsana. Lateron Afsana
informed the matter to her mother. Then she also reported the matter to her
mother and brother. She also informed the whole matter to the wife of the
accused but wife of the accused told her that her husband never committed
any misdeed. Then she was taken to Civil hospital. While authority of Civil
Hospital asked them about police reference then she was removed to BJ
hospital where she stayed for about 6 days. Thereafter, her brother filed this
case. After the incident she was examined by the doctor. Her statement u/s

164 Cr.P.C. was alSo recorded through the Magistrate.

26. “As. pointed out by learned counsel for the accused that in court the
victimystated ‘that the incident took place on 13-09-2014 on the other hand, in
her statement recorded by Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she clearly stated that
the incident took place on 26-09-2014 . Similarly, she/victim stated before the
police that the incident took place on 16-09-2014. Again, in the ejahar, lodged
by her elder brother it is mentioned that the incident took place on 16-09-2014.
In fact the ejahar was filed by the complainant on 18-09-2014 whereas she
made statement before the learned Magistrate that the incident took place on
on 26-09-2014 and before the Police that the incident took place on 16-09-
2014. Therefore, the very date of the alleged incident is contradictory.

 
Page 11 of 16

27. In Boya Gangaram Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh reported in AIR
1976 SC 1541, it has been held that -

“minor contradictions are bound to appear when ignorant and
illiterate women are giving evidence. Even in case of trained and
educated persons, memory sometimes plays false and this would be
much more so in case of ignorant and rustic women. It must also be
remembered that the evidence given by a witness would very much
depend upon his power of observation and it is possible that.some
aspects of an incident may be observed by one witness while. they
may not be witnesses by another though both are present at_the
scene of offence.”

But wrong mentioning of date in different stages bythe victim cannot be stated
to be a minor contradiction as this is a case under section POCSO Act. As such,
due to wrong mentioning of date, in different stageseby the victim discredit the

statement of the victim.

28. The another point raised by the earned counsel for the accused is that
the charge under this type of section is one which is very easy to make and
very difficult to rebut, and.when.such a charge is made it is necessary to see
whether it is supported by\independent evidence. Besides, that of the victim
herself, or is corroborated by her conduct and surrounding circumstances and is
consistent with the ordinary probabilities. As discussed herein before, the
solitary evidence “of the prosecutrix did not appear to be cogent or reliable.

Therefore, the accused is entitled to get the benefit of doubt.

Italso appears that the victim did not state before the police that after
administering black tablet by the accused she became senseless and after half
an hour she regained her senses and she noticed that she was undressed and
profuse bleeding come out from her private parts. Therefore this is also a vital

contradiction.

29. While peeping through the record particularly, the statement of the
prosecution witnesses, it appears that the complainant (PW 1) admitted in his

evidence that before the incident took place there was some quarrel took place
Page 12 of 16

in between the accused and them. That apart, PW 6 Khairun Begum, the wife
of the accused has also admitted that there was a previous enmity in between
them.

It has been held in Suresh Rai Vs. State of Bihar reported in AIR
2000 SC 20207 that — “enmity undoubtedly is a double edged weapon; it may
be a motive for commission of the crime, it may also be a motive for false

implication.”

30. Here in the present case, the complainant who is the brother of the
victim himself admitted that before the incident took place there was some
quarrel took place in between them. Besides, PW 6»wife.of.the accused also
admitted that there was a previous enmity in betweensthem. Therefore, enmity
due to quarrel between the complainant and the accused cannot be ruled out.

Therefore, it may also be a motive for false implication.

31. Another point as raised by the learned counsel for the accused is to be
discussed in the present case is, that. this is a case u/s 341/376 of IPC r/w
section 4 of POCSO Act. According to the complainant, the victim was only 13
years of minor at the relevant»point of time. According to victim, she was 16
years of age on.the date of deposition but it is interesting to note that the I.0O.
has failed to collect ‘any age certificate of the victim from the competent
authority. PW 10°Dr. J. Borkakoti, who examined the victim on 17-09-2014
stated ‘that*no vaginal or vulvel injury on bleeding P/V seen. He also admitted
that the.age mentioned is not based on ossification test, therefore, the age of
the victim is remained to prove. The offence of POCSO act is attracted if the
victim is below 18 years of age but here in the present case, the age of the

victim is remained dark.

32. Another point as raised by the learned counsel for the accused is that
ordinarily if a minor girl is forcibly raped she might have sustained injury not
only in her private parts but also in any other parts of the body. But in the

instant case, according to victim PW 7 in the incident she sustained injury on

 
Page 13 of 16

her private parts from where blood was oozing. According to her she had been
admitted at BJ Hospital for 6 days. But, the doctor of BJ hospital stated nothing
about the period of hospitalization nor any injury found in any parts of body or
in private parts. That apart, the doctor stated nothing about the commission of

rape.

33. The law is well settled if the victim is unwilling to yield_to sexual
intercourse she is expected to receive injuries on her person. The absence of
injuries on the body of the prosecutrix generally gives rise to an inference that
she was a consenting party to coitus. Where the prosecutrix had received
multiple injuries on various parts of the body it indicates.that she offered
resistance when she was subjected to sexual intercourse.

Here in the present case, though ‘according to the victim she
sustained injury and even blood was oozing from_her private parts but doctor

nowhere stated that he found any injury on herbody or on her private parts.

34. Another point is to be discussed in the present case is that the I.0. has
failed to seize the wearing, apparels of the victim which was wearing by the
victim at the relevant\point of time. If the I.O. has collected the wearing
apparels of the.victim, it would be more stronger but the I.O. has failed to do

so.

35... In view of the aforesaid reasons, the only statement of the victim
cannot. be»stated to be an unambiguous, reliable, convincing or sufficient to

convict the accused.

36. As discussed herein before, the solitary evidence of the prosecutrix did
not appear to be cogent and reliable, therefore, the accused is entitled to get
the benefit of doubt.

37. On careful perusal of the whole case record and as details discussed

hereinbefore, I am bound to hold that the prosecution has categorically failed to

 
Page 14 of 16

prove the alleged cahrge against the accused beyond any reasonable doubt.
Hence, the accused Md. Alia Ali @ Kalia is acquitted on benefit of doubt and set
him at liberty forthwith.

38. The liabilities of the bailor is hereby discharged.

39. Regarding compensation to the victim, the Hon’ble Supreme Court in
the case of Laxmi Kant Pandey — Vs- Union of India, (1984) 2 SCC 244
held that the child is a soul with a bearing, a nature and capacities of its.own,
who must be helped to find them, to grow into their maturity, into fullness of
physical and vital energy and the utmost breath, depth and height of its
emotional intellectual and spiritual being, otherwise there.cannot be a healthy
growth of the nation. Now obviously children need. special protection because
of their tender age and physique, mental immaturity and incapacity to look
after themselves. That is why there is a growing realization in every part of the
globe that children must be brought.up,in an atmosphere of love and affection
and under the tender care and attentionof parents so that they may be able to
attain full emotional, intellectual and spiritual stability and maturity and acquire
self-confidence and self-respect and a balance view of life with full appreciation
and realization of the\role.which they have to play in the nation building
process without which the nation cannot develop and attain real prosperity
because a large segment of the society would then be left out of the
developmental process. To compensate the trauma faced by the victim in this
case, Ixthink am amount of Rs. 30,000/- is allowed as a victim compensation to
the victim»of this case. I hereby direct learned Secretary, District Legal Aid
Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur, to grant compensation to the tune of Rs.
30,000/- (Rupees Thirty thousand) only to the victim. The said amount shall be

used for her welfare and rehabilitation, under the supervision of Social Welfare.
Page 15 of 16

40. Let the G.R Case No. 2294/14 be sent to Ld. committal Court along
with a copy of Judgment.

41. — Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 7 day of April,
2017.

(A.K. Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(A.K. Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed.by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, “Steno
— Cen aaa wh

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8
Prosecution Witness No.9
Prosecution Witness No.10

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4
Exhibit 5

Page 16 of 16

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

:- Md. Ali Ahmed, informant
- Bhomri Begum,

= Smt. Dharmeswari Boro
3 Smt. Nayanmoni Bora

- Sri Arun Sah

- Khairun Begum,

:“ victim

- Sri Uttam Tamang, 1.0.

- Sri Subleswar Deka, I.O.
i- Dr. J. Borkakoti, M.O.

EXHIBITS.

o Ejahar

— 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim
™ Charge sheet.

' sketch map

- Medical report.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
