IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT & SESSIONS JUDGE CUM
SPECIAL JUDGE-2(FTC)(POCSO) :: TINSUKIA

District: Tinsukia

Present: Md. A. Hakim,
District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),
(POCSO)Tinsukia.

POCSO Case No. 71(M)/17
U/s 363 of the IPC & 4 OF POCSO Act

The State of Assam
beceeaeeeeaeees Complainant
-Versus -

Sri Arup Barua

S/o- Sri Hiranya Baruah,

R/o- A.P.O Colony, Margherita,
P.S- Margherita,

District- Tinsukia, Assam.

beeteeeeeeeeneeneees Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal
Spl. Pullolit: ProSecutor ais ssn « scans «5 emus xs we For the Complainant
Mr. P.P Hazarika
Advocate ae cecaeceee tence ees For the accused.

Date of evidence: 10.12.18, 19.01.19.
Date of Argument: 28.02.2019.
Date of Judgment: 28.02.2019.
JUDGMENT

. The prosecution case in brief is that on 01.12.17 at about 8
A.M the 17 years old only daughter of the informant went to
school for her regular practice. But when she did not return
home till 6 PRM after her tuition, the informant made various
search and being failed to find her everywhere they suspected
that the accused may have kidnapped his minor daughter
who had love affairs with his daughter. It is mentioned in the
FIR that the victim girl was 17 years of age at the time of her
abduction. The informant had submitted the birth certificate
and photograph of his daughter alongwith the FIR. Hence,
the case.

. Receiving the FIR, Margherita PS. registered a case and
investigated the matter and on completion of the investigation,
charge sheet was submitted against the accused and forwarded
to face the trial.

. Upon receiving the record and appearance of the accused in this
court and upon hearing both sides and considering the materials
on record charge u/s U/s 363 of the IPC & 4 of POCSO Act had
been framed, particulars of which on being read over and
explained, the accused had pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

. During trial, prosecution examined Four (4) witnesses. The
accused is exempted from examination u/s 313 Cr.P.C as no
material ingredients of offence is found against the accused.

. | have heard argument put forth by the Id. Counsel for both the
sides as well as gone through the entire materials available on
record.
6.

7.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) That the accused on 01.12.17 at Margherita in the
district of Tinsukia had kidnapped the victim, the
17 years minor daughter of the informant from her
lawful guardianship and thereby committed an
offence punishable U/s. 363 IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused on the same day _ had
committed penetrative sexual assault upon the
victim girl and thereby committed an_ offence
punishable U/s. 4 of POCSO ACT ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

P.W.1, Sri Pranab Gogoi has deposed that the victim is his
daughter. She was born on 17.03.2000. He knows’ accused
Arup Barua after the incident. The incident took place on
01.12.17. At that time his daughter was studying in Class
XIl and was preparing for her Higher Secondary
examination. At about 8AM she came out of the house to
attend her school and when she did not return till 6 PM
we got worried and searched her. And on enquiry he came
to know that she had affairs with accused Arup Barua and
she might have eloped with him. He therefore, lodged an
ejahar at the Police station. Ext. 1 is the ejahar, Ext. 1(1) is
his signature. After nine days his daughter was recovered by
the police from some place, Simaluguri, Sibsagar. After her
recovery she was given in his custody. On enquiry from his
daughter he came to know she has been maintaining affairs
with the accused and she out of her own will had married
with the accused. After her recovery she was sent by the

police for her medical examination and she was_ also
4

produced before the Magistrate to record her statement U/s.
164 Cr.P.C. At present she is living with the accused Arup
Barua as his wife; as after attaining her majority she again
eloped with the accused. He has got no grievances for her
staying with the accused.

In Cross-examination he has stated that he involved the
name of the accused in the FIR on suspicion. He does not
know whether the accused was there at the time of the
recovery of the victim. He denies the suggestion that he has
lodged a false case against the accused.

PW.2, Smt. Hiranya Gogoi has deposed that the victim
is her daughter. She was born on 17.03.2000. She knows
accused Arup Barua after the incident. The incident took
place on 01.12.17. At that time her daughter was studying
in Class Xl and was preparing for her Higher Secondary
examination. At about 8AM she came out of the house to
attend her school and when she did not return till 6 PM
they got worried and searched her. And on enquiry she
came to know that she had affairs with accused Arup Barua
and she might have eloped with him. Therefore her husband
lodged an ejahar at the Police station. After nine days her
daughter was recovered by the police from some place, at
district Sibsagar. After her recovery she was given in their
custody. On enquiry from her daughter she came to know
she has been maintaining affairs with the accused. After her
recovery she was sent by the police for her medical
examination and she was-~ also produced’ before’ the
Magistrate to record her’ statement U/s. 164 Cr.PC.
Thereafter; after attaining majority victim again eloped with
the accused and at present she is living as wife of the
accused with him. They have no objection’ in_ their
relationship.
5

10. In Cross-examination she has denied the suggestion
that her daughter did not elope with the accused. Her
daughter/victim always denied about the relation between
her and the accused. They have named the accused on
suspicion without any sufficient proof.

11. P.W.3, the victim has deposed that she she was born
on 17.03.2000. She knows’ accused Arup Barua also who is
now her husband. The present case was lodged on 01.12.17.
At that time she was studying in Class Xl and was preparing
for her Higher Secondary examination. On that day she had
come out of the house to attend the school but instead
she wentto Sibsagar alone. There she stayed at the house
of one of her relative brother, Lohit Gogoi. After three or four
days police recovered her from the house of Lohit Gogoi.
After her recovery police sent her for medical examination
and also produced before Magistrate to record her
statement. Ext.2 is her statement recorded U/s. 164 Cr.P.C,
Ext. 2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures. Thereafter she was
given in custody of her parents. Thereafter after attaining
majority she eloped’ voluntarily and married with the
accused in the month of March'18. Now she is living with
the accused as his wife.

12. In Cross-examination she has_ stated that due to
misunderstanding her father had lodged this case against
the accused person. The accused did not try to create any
physical contact with her prior to her marriage. She does not
want to proceed this case against the accused.

13. PW.4, Dr. (Mrs.) Suravi Borah has’ stated that on
10.12.17 she was working as M.O.NH.M at Margherita FRU.
That day at about 8:30 PM she examined the victim in
connection with Margherita PS case no. 254/17 under sec.
363 IPC. She was’ brought and identified by WHG, Smt. Nalini
6

Das of Margherita Police station. The victim was examined in
presence of GNM Nomita. She was examined in connection
with allegation of elopement on 01.12.17.

On examination she found as follows:

Mental Status - normal.

Height - 5 feet, Weight 62 KG, Teeth - Total 28

Abdomen - soft,

Breast, Areola and Nipples - developed.

Scalp hair, Public hair and Axilary hair - present.

Genitals - developed and normal.

Vulval injury - not present at the time of examination.

Labia Minora and majora - developed.

Hymen - not intact

Vagina - normal and developed.

Uterus - not palpable.

Vaginal discharge - not present at the time of examination.
Injuries on the body other than genitals - not present at
the time of examination.

The victim was sent for Radiological examination and USG

report. The Radiological examination shows her age is _ in

between 19 to 21 years and USG report shows normal study.

Urine for B/HCG Test - Negative.

The slide for vaginal smear does not’ reveal any
spermatozoa.

OPINION - In her opinion her age is between 19 to 21

years. There is no any injury mark on her body as well as

private parts. The vaginal smear does not’ show any

spermatozoa. Therefore it could not be ascertained the

victim has been raped or not.

Ext. 3 is Medical report. Ext. 3(1) is her signature.

Ext. 4 is the report of the Laboratory,

Ext. 5 is the Radiological report with x-ray plate,

Ext. 6 is the USG report with images, Ext. 6(1) is the

signature of Dr. K.C Das, she is conversant with his

signature.
14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

The Cross-examination is declined by the defence.

With regard to the point for determination Ld.
counsel for the defence has pointed out that prosecution has
failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt. The
complainant and the victim girl have not alleged that the
accused had kidnapped the victim nor committed rape on her.
The medical evidence has proved that the victim girl was major
at the time of the alleged incident. Hence the accused person
should be acquitted and set at liberty.

In reply Id. PP has admitted that the victim and the
other witnesses have failed to implicate the accused.

Upon hearing both sides, | have gone through the
material evidence on record and found that the victim girl i.e.
PW 3 has deposed that on the day of the incident she has
come out of the house to attend the school but instead
she goes to Sibsagar alone. There she stays at the house of
one of her relative brother, Lohit Gogoi. After three or four
days police recover her from the house of Lohit Gogoi. In
Cross-examination she has stated that due to
misunderstanding her father has lodged this case against
the accused person. The accused has tried to create any
physical contact with her prior to her marriage.

The complainant PW 1 i.e. the father of the victim and the
PW 2 i.e. the mother of the victim have deposed in course of
cross-examination that the name of the accused is given in the
FIR on suspicion. It is also revealed from the medical evidence
(PW 4) that the victim is aged about between 19 to 21 years at
the time of the incident. As the prosecution has failed to prove
the age of the victim girl contrary to the medical evidence | am
of the considered view that the victim girl was major at the time
of the incident.

19. As the victim girl was a major at the time of the alleged
incident and as the complainant and the victim girl have not
alleged anything against the accused person | am of the
considered opinion that the Prosecution has failed to prove
the case against the accused U/s. 363 IPC and S. 4 of POCSO
Act beyond all reasonable doubts. Hence, the accused Sri Arup
Barua is acquitted and set at liberty.

20. The Prosecution is directed to dispose of the seized

material in accordance with law.

21. Send a copy of the Judgment to the Deputy

Commissioner of Tinsukia.
22. The case is disposed of herewith.
23. Given under her hand and seal of this court on this the

28" day of February, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me:

( A. Hakim), ( A. Hakim),
District & Sessions Judge District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC), cum Special Judge-2(FTC),

(POCSO)Tinsukia. (POCSO)Tinsukia.
9

ANNEXURE

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

P.W.1, Sri Pranab Gogoi,
P.W.2, Smt. Hiranya Gogoi,
P.W.3, the victim &

P.W.4, Dr.(Mrs.) Suravi Borah

PROSECUTION DOCUMENTS :

Ext. 1, is the Ejahar,

Ext. 2 is the U/s. 164 Cr.P.C statement of the victim,
Ext. 3 is the Medical Report,

Ext. 4 is the report of the Laboratory,

Ext. 5 is the Radiological report with x-ray plate,
Ext. 6 is the USG report with images.

( A. Hakim),
District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),

(POCSO)Tinsukia.
