Page 1 of 6

 

wb PE:

DISTRICT- CHARAIDEO.

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE: CHARAIDEO: SONARI
TE SEC IAL JUDGE: CHARAIDEO: SONARI
Present:- Syed Imdadur Rahman, AJS.

Specia Judge

Charaideo, Sonati

SPECIAL JUDGE

The 14" day of November, 2018.

SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 63 OF 2017

Under Section

4 of the Protection of Children

from Sexual offences Act, 2012.
Read With

366 of the Indian Penal Code.

 

State of Assam
-Versus-
1. Sri Sunil Karmakar.
sainawnaddeue Accused Person.

 

This case was taken up for final hearing on 14.11.2018 in the presence of

Sri Basanta Gogoi.............. Advocate for prosecution side.
Sri Rajiv Buragohain............6.... Advocate of the accused.
F.I.R was lodged on tiittisses 05.06.2017,
Charge framed on titties: 23.03.2018.
Argument Heard on tieeesssees, 14,11,2018,
Judgment Delivered on :iiire:: 14.11.2018.
 

Page 2 of 6

 

JUDGMENT

In this case the accused person is facing
trial under section 4 of the P.O.C.S.O act
2012, and alternatively Under Section
366 I.P.C

i, The case of the prosecution is that, the accused kidnapped the minor
daughter of the informant, i.e. (N.G) who was 13/14 years old and was student of
class IX, on 03/06/17 at 4:00 P.M.

2. That, after this incident, the informant filed an ejahar before the Sepon
Police outpost. Later on a case was registered in this regard, before the Moranhat
Police station, bearing its P.S case no 36/17. Police after investigation forwarded
chare sheet u/s 366(A) I.P.C against the accused person. Thereafter, case was
committed and charge U/S 4 POCSO act 2012 read with 366 I.P.C was framed
against the accused person, by my Ld. Predecessor in office. The charge was read
over and explained to the accused person, who, pleaded not guilty and claimed to
be tried. Prosecution examined 3 witnesses,

De The accused person was examined U/S 313 Cr.p.c, where he denied the
case of the prosecution. The accused person examined no witness. I have heard
arguments put forwarded by both sides.

4. Points For Determination in this case are:-
——— termination in this case are:-

i) Whether the accused on 03/06/2017, kidnapped the daughter
of the informant with the intention that, she may be compelled to marry
Page 3 of 6

 

any person against her will, or she may be forced to have illicit
intercourse with another person?

ii) Whether the accused on 03/06/2017, committed penetrative
sexual assault on the daughter of the informant Sri Bishnu Ghasi, who
was below 18 years at that time?

a DISCUSSION DECISION AND REASONS FOR THE DECISION

Let us now, discuss evidences on record, concerning the points for
determination of this case. In this case the alleged victim was examined as P.W3,
the P.W3 in her evidence deposed that, accused is her husband. That, her present
age is 19 years. That, having love affair with accused for 2 year, on 3/6/17 she
went to the house of the aunt of the accused, to meet him and stayed there for one
night. That, after 2 days on the assurance of acknowledging their relation, as given
by her father, they both appeared before Sepon Police station, from where the
accused was arrested by police. That, from court she went to her paternal house
and after, staying there for 9/6 months, she again went to the accused and since
then she is living together at the paternal house of the accused at Borbam area.

In the cross examination this P.W deposed that, accused did not put
force on her for going or staying with him. That, she on her own went with the
accused. That, accused is innocent.

I have considered the evidence of the alleged victim. The alleged victim
in her evidence deposed that she went on her own, with the accused, that, the
accused is innocent. The evidence of the alleged victim Clearly demolishes any
hypothesis that accused kidnapped or used force to the alleged victim to go with
him, or caused any sexual assault on her,

6. Here in this case the P.W1 is the father of the alleged victim and he in

a rea evidence deposed that, he knows the accused. That, victim is his daughter. That,
‘i = Page 4 of 6

  

she is presently aged about 15 years. That, on the day of incident his daughter was
reading in Sepon High school. That, 03/06/17 his daughter got missing from his
house. That, during search he came to know that, accused has kidnapped his
daughter. That, after filing of the case, his daughter and the accused appeared
before Police station. That, on asking his daughter, she told that, having love affair
with the accused, she eloped with the accused. That, after staying in his house for
about 5/6 months, again on 17/11/17 his daughter eloped with the accused. In the
cross examination this P.W deposed that, his daughter told that she went to the
accused on her own.

7 The P.W3 i.e. the mother of the alleged victim in evidence deposed that,
That, victim is her daughter. That, she is presently aged about 15 years. That, on
the day of incident her daughter was reading in Sepon High school. That, 03/06/17
her daughter got missing from his house. That, during search she came to know
that, accused has kidnapped her daughter. That, after filing of the case, her
daughter and the accused appeared before Police station. That, on asking her
daughter, she told that, having love affair with the accused, she eloped with the
accused. That, after Staying in their house for about 9/6 months, again on LZ LIF
her daughter eloped with the accused. In the cross examination this P.W deposed
that, her daughter told that she went to the accused on her own.

I have considered the evidence of the P.W1/informant/father of the
victim and the P.W3/mother of the victim. These 2 P.Ws were informed by the
victim that, out of love affair, she went with the accused on her own. Through the
evidence the informant and the P.W3 as witness failed to place any specific
evidence Concerning any of the point for determination, rather it is yielded from
there evidence that the victim told him that she went with the accused on her own.

5 8. I have considered evidences of the P.W1,P.W2 and P.W3 and found that,
e

rn
Spécial Judge they never adduced any evidence from which it can be gathered that accused
Charaideo, Sonari
Page 5 of 6

 

kidnapped or used force to the alleged victim go with him. Concerning the sections
366 I.P.C, or section 4 of the POSCO act 2012, here in this case there is nothing,
yielded from the material witnesses. The alleged victim, her parent never deposed
anything connecting any of the point for determination.

2, I have considered the evidences on record, which includes the evidence
of the prosecutrix and I find that, there is no iota of evidence to bring the accused
person within the ambit of section 366 of I.P.C or section 4 of the POCSO act, as
the alleged victim and other witness never deposed anything in evidence against
the accused, concerning any of the points for determination. Here in this case the
prosecution has failed to adduce any evidence basing on which we can held that,
Prosecution has proved the case beyond all reasonable doubt.

10. This being the position of this Case, in opinion of this court, prosecution
has failed to prove the case against the accused person and accordingly the
accused Sri Sunil Karmakar is acquitted from the offences he is facing trial. He is set
at liberty forth with. Bail bond executed by the accused is extended as per provision

437(A) Cr.P.C. In opinion of this court there is no circumstance to invoke section
357(A) of Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 14! day of
November 2018.

Vr
ye
er ee
(S.I.Rahman)

Additinal-Sessions-Judge.

Chahaidey, Sora» Sonar,
Page 6 of 6

  

Appendix

Prosecution Witnesses.
SI. 1---- Prosecution Witness 1 ---Shri Bishnu Ghasi.

SI, 2---- Prosecution Witness 2 ---Alleged victim.
SI. 3---- Prosecution Witness 3 --- Smti Sanja Ghasi.

Prosecution Exhibits.

rrosecution Exhibits
Sl. 1---- Birth Certificate.
Sl. 2---- F.LR.

SI. 2(i)- Signature of the informant.
SI. 3---- Statement recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C
Sl. 3(i) and 3(ii) are signatures of the P.W2.

Defence witness.
Nil.
Defence Exhibit.

Nil
h
yw
4\4¢
rage
(S.I.Rahman)

Additional Sessions Judge
Charaideo.
