IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 73 of 2018
(Arising out of Barpeta P.S. Case No.1364/2017)
U/S 12 of POCSO Act.

PRESENT : — Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:- 28.03.2019
State of Assam

- Vs -
1. Salim Uddin Ahmed &

2. Sofikul Islam............. Accused persons.

Date of Recording Evidence on — 20.05.2019, 18.06.2019, 11.09.2019
Date of Hearing Argument on — 11.09.2019
Date of Delivering the Judgment on— 20.09.2019
Appearance :
Advocate for the State------------------ Mrs. P. Das, Ld. Addl. P.P.
Advocate for the Accused-------------- Mr. Motiur Rahman, Ld Advocates.

JUDGMENT

FACTS OF THE CASE

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 07.08.2017 one Jahidul Islam lodged an

FIR in Barpeta police station alleging inter-alia that accused persons named in the FIR
allegedly gave sexual comment and hurled abusive language towards the minor daughter
of the informant aged about 11 years and this fact has been intimated to the guardian of the
accused persons but no response has been forthcoming from their end.

2. It is alleged that, on 07.08.2017 while the daughter of informant was returning
home from Jyogirpam Nabajyoti M.E. Madrassa school on her bicycle in front of the house
of accused No.1, both accused No.1 and 2 restrained her on her way and accused No.1
touching her breast, pulled her down from her bicycle and trying to kidnap her. But when
she made hue and cry accused persons threatened her to kill and in the milee accused

persons caused injuries on the body of the girl by pulling her
down on the ground from her bicycle. In the mean time, one Kanchan Mala of the village
came forward and having seen them both the accused persons fled away. But the modesty

of the girl has been robed. Hence the case.

INVESTIGATION

5. Following the information as above, Barpeta police station registered a case being
Barpeta PS case No.1364/17 u/s 366/511/34 IPC and Section 8/12 of Protection of Children
from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and took up investigation.

4. During the course of investigation, police visited the place of occurrence, recorded
the statement of the witnesses including the victim u/s 161 Cr.P.C. drew sketch map,
forwarded the victim girl to court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on
completion of investigation finally laid the charge sheet against accused Salim Uddin
Ahmed and Sofikul Islam u/s 366/511/34 IPC and Section 8/12 of POCSO Act, 2012 with

a view to stand trial.

APPEARANCE
5. During the course of time, when accused entered their appearance in court, the then
learned Special Judge, Barpeta vide order dated 14.09.2018 took cognizance of the
offences u/s 366/511/34 IPC and Section 8/12 of POCSO Act and transferred the case

record to this court for trial.

CHARGE
6. Having received the case record on transfer, all the particulars of the case have been
furnished to accused as provided u/s 207 Cr.P.C. Thereafter, vide order dated 28.03.2019
charge u/s 12 of POCSO Act was framed on perusing the materials available on record.
The particulars of the offence on being read over and explained accused persons pleaded

not guilty and claimed trial.

EVIDENCE
7. During the course of trial, the prosecution, in order to substantiate its case
examined as many as 5 witnesses including the informant as PW-1, the alleged victim girl
as PW-2, Kanchan Mala as PW-3, Hakemuddin as PW-4 as well as the investigating officer
as PW-5 and also exhibited the FIR as Ext.1, signature of informant as Ext.1(1) and 1(2),
the statement of the victim girl u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as Ext.2 and signatures as Ext.2(1) and 2(2),
the sketch map as Ext.3 and signature of I/O as Ext.3(1), charge sheet as Ext.4, signature
of I/O as Ext.4(1) and birth certificate of the victim girl as Ext.A(1) compared with the

original.
EXAMINATION OF ACCUSED USS 313 Cr.P.C.

8. Concluding prosecution evidence, accused were examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. but both

the accused denied their involvement in the case.

DEFENCE PLEA
9. The defence plea is total denial of the prosecution case. As such, on being asked

accused persons declined to adduce defence evidence.

10. Now point for determination _ ;-

1. Whether on 07.08.2017 at about 3 pm and prior thereto accused Salim Uddin
Ahmed and Sofikul Islam repeatedly and constantly follows or watches or
contacts the victim girl and also threatens her to fall on the ground from her

bicycle by pulling her down while returning home from school as alleged ?

11. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-

I have heard the arduous contention of the learned lawyers appearing for both sides.
12, Now, let me first apprise the evidence of the prosecution witnesses. On perusal of
the evidence of the victim girl (PW-2) it appears that on 07.08.2017 at about 2/3 pm while
she have been returning home from school in her bicycle, in front of the house of Salim
Uddin Ahmed all of a sudden she was stopped by Salim Uddin Ahmed by holding her
bicycle. As a result, she fell on the ground and suffered injuries on her head and leg. While
she got up, accused Salim Uddin Ahmed and Sofikul Islam told her that she should love
Salim and then tried to forcefully took her and then touched her body and told that they
will not leave her to go. Then she told that she is still minor and cannot love Salim and
shouted out of fear, hearing her cry Kanchan Mala, her grand mother, came forward and
having seen her, both the accused persons fled away. Then her grand mother took her to the
house and she narrated the story to her father. Then her father filed the case regarding the
incident. She was also examined by doctor and forwarded her to court for recording her

statement. Ext.2 is her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and Ext.2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures.

13. In her cross examination however, she stated that she used to go to school alone
but police did not seize her bicycle. She also stated that she did not depose evidence in
court as tutored by her father and did not state before police that accused touch her body

and hold her bicycle behind her back.
14. On the other hand, PW-1 Jahidul Islam, who is the informant cum father of the
victim girl deposed that the incident occurred on 07.08.2017 while she have been returning
home from her school. According to him, accused Salimuddin and Sofikul frequently
disturbed her by hurling sexually coloured abusive language towards her. He further
deposed that in order to ascertain the fact one day he followed his daughter without her
knowledge and noticed that both the accused Salimuddin and Sofikul Islam also forced her
to do so. Having seen the incident from his own eyes he immediately informed the parents
of the Salimuddin and asked him not to indulge such activities by his son in future. His
wife also approached the wife of Safikul and told her that they are disturbing and causing
harassment to her daughter and also asked her not to indulge such act in future. After about
one month of the incident while his daughter had been returning home from school in her
bicycle, in front of the house of Salimuddin she was stopped and touched her body by
Salimuddin by force and out of fear when she made hue and cry her maternal grand mother
came forward and having seen her accused rushed away. Regarding the incident he filed
the FIR (Ext.1) and Ext.1(1) and 1(2) are his signatures. During investigation, police
recorded his statement and produced his daughter in court before Magistrate for recording
her statement. During investigation, police also collected her birth certificate and to-day he
brought the original to the court. Ext.A is the original birth certificate and Ext.A(1) is the
photocopy of the birth certificate compared with the original.

i, In his cross examination he stated that both the accused are co-villagers and he
lodged the FIR after knowing everything about the incident from his daughter. He denied
the defence suggestion that he did not state before police that accused persons coming
behind his daughter pulled her bicycle. His daughter was also treated as FAAMCH,
Barpeta. His daughter sustained injuries on her leg and head. He denied that he gave false
statement in the FIR. He also denied the defence suggestion that he did not narrate in the
FIR as well as before police that accused subjected torture on his daughter with sexual
intent on her way back home from school and in order to ascertain this fact he followed his
daughter one day and having found the fact true informed the father of accused Salimuddin
not to indulge such activities by his son in future. He also denied the defence suggestion
that during investigation police did not collect the photocopy of birth certificate of his
daughter and he deposed totally false evidence.

16. PW-3 Kanchan Mala also deposed that the incident occurred about two years back
around 2/3 pm while hearing the cry of victim girl nearby the house of Salimuddin she
rushed to the spot and save her and having seen her, accused Salimuddin and Sofikul ran
away. When asked her, she told her that accused persons pull and push her on her way

back home from school. Then she took her to the house.
17. In her cross examination she stated that at the time of incident she was in her
residence and hearing the shout of victim she rushed to the spot and stated that she do not
know the reason of the accused persons doing so with the victim girl.

18. PW-4 Hakimuddin also deposed that incident occurred about 2 years back while
his niece/victim girl have been returning from school accused persons restrained her in
front of the house of accused and pull and push her.

19, In his cross examination he stated that he did not discuss the matter with the victim.
20. PW-5 Hrishikesh Thakuria, the I/O who deposed that on 07.08.2017 acting on the
FIR lodged by one Jahidul Islam a case was registered being Barpeta P.S. case No.1364/17
u/s 366/511/34 IPC and Section 8/12 of POCSO Act and entrusted him to investigate the
case. Accordingly, he visited the place of occurrence, drew sketch map, recorded the
statement of the witnesses, sent the victim girl to court for recording her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. send the victim for medical examination and collected the medical examination
report and finally having found a prima facie case charge sheet u/s 366/511/34 IPC and
Section 8/12 of POCSO Act was laid.

21. In his cross examination he stated that the victim did not state before him that
accused attempted to kidnap her and in her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. also she did not state
that accused persons touched her body and sexually abused her. As per medical report there
was no injury on the body of victim. He has collected the age certificate of victim during
investigation. PW-1 Jahidul Islam did not state before him that accused persons subjected
torture on his daughter with sexual intent and in order to ascertain this fact he followed his
daughter one day and found the fact true and informed the father of accused Salimuddin
not to indulge such activities in future and his wife also told the wife of Sofikul not to
indulge such activities by her husband with his daughter. PW-2 the victim girl stated before
him that accused hold her bicycle behind her back and PW-3 Kanchan Mala did not state
before him that victim shouted “save me’’,” save me’”’.

22. During the course of argument, the learned counsel for the state submitted that there
is sufficient materials against the accused persons subjecting sexual torture on the victim
girl on her way back home from school on number of occasion and this fact has been
corroborated by the evidence of PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 and even the evidence of I/O
confirmed this fact. Therefore, the learned Addl. P.P. submitted that it is a fit case to record
conviction u/s 12 of POCSO Act and punish the accused persons adequately.

23. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the accused Motiur Rahman
submitted that a false case has been lodged against the accused persons due to personal
grudge by using the victim girl by her parents. In fact, no such incident ever took place.

The fact that the informant and victim deposed false evidence has been confirmed by the
evidence of the I/O that during investigation he found no injury on the victim. Moreover,
all the witnesses namely-PW-1, PW-2, PW-3 and PW-4 are family members and they
naturally give evidence in unison to punish the accused. They took the shelter of falsehood
only to bring out a case against the accused persons which is not worthy of credit in the
absence of evidence of any independent witnesses. But in the present case, prosecution
miserably failed to examine any of the independent witnesses. Therefore, the learned
counsel vehemently contended that no reliance can be placed on the evidence of the
prosecution witnesses. Therefore, he submitted that it is a fit case to record judgment of
acquittal.

24. Before deliberating on the arguments of the learned lawyers appearing for both
sides and evaluating the evidence on record it is apposite to refer Section 11 & 12 of

POCSO Act.

“Section 11 Sexual harassment.- A person is said to commit sexual harassment
upon a child when such person with sexual intent-

(1) utters any word or makes any sound, or makes any gesture or exhibits any
object or part of body with the intention that such word or sound shall be
heard, or such gesture or object or part of body shall be seen by the child;

(II) makes a child exhibit his body or any part of his body so as it is seen by
such person or any other person; or

(IID) shows any object to a child in any form or media for pornographic
purposes; or

(IV) repeatedly or constantly follows or watches or contacts a child
either directly or through electronic, digital or any other means; or

(V) threatens to use, in any form of media, a real or fabricated depiction
through electronic, film or digital or any other mode, of any part of the
body of the child or the involvement of the child in a sexual act; or

(VI) entices a child for pornographic purposes or gives gratification
thereof’.

Explanation- Any question which involves “sexual intent” shall be a question

of fact.

“Section 12 Punishment for sexual harassment.- Whoever, commits sexual
harassment upon a child shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a
term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable __ to fine”.

25. On perusal of the definition of offence of sexual harassment as define u/s 11 of

POCSO Act it appears that utterance of any word or making a sound or any gesture or
exhibition of any object or part of body with the intention that such word or sound is heard,
or such gesture or object or part of body shall be seen by the child; or repeatedly or
constantly follows or watches or contacts a child either directly or through electronic,
digital or any other means; or touches any part of the body of the child or the involvement
of the child in sexual act etc constitute the offence of sexual harassment.

26. Now, having taken into consideration the arguments put forth by the learned
counsels appearing for the state as well as for the defence and the evidence available on
record, this court has found force in the contention of the learned counsel appearing for the
state. On perusal of Ext.1 it is seen that accused persons harassed the victim girl aged about
11 years with sexual intent on her way to school on regular basis for which a complaint
had already been lodged by the guardian of the accused persons. Subsequently, on
07.08.2017 while the victim girl had been returning home from school alone , in front of
the house of accused No.1 Salimuddin she was stopped by accused Salimuddin and Sofikul
Islam and accused Sofikul Islam touched her breast, pulled her down from the bicycle on
the road and then tried to kidnap her. Then they tried to outrage her modesty but when she
made hue and cry, hearing her cry Kanchan Mala came forward. Then accused persons fled
away. The averments made in the FIR (Ext.1) has been fully corroborated by the victim girl
in her statement before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. (Ext.2) and also reiterated by her in her
evidence in court on affidavit. In her evidence in court, victim girl in no uncertain terms
reiterated almost the same facts narrated in the FIR. She also deposed that accused
Salimuddin and Sofikul Islam forced her to love Salim. When she refused to oblige, both
the accused persons touched her body and restrained her to proceed. Then she shouted and
hearing her Kanchan Mala, her grand mother came forward and having seen Kanchan Mala
both the accused fled away. Thereafter, she was brought to the house by Kanchan Mala and
she then narrated her ordeal to her father. The act of the accused persons shows that they
were creating obstruction and causing harassment which clearly constitute a case for sexual
harassment as the act of the accused persons are predominantly pressure on a minor girl
which cannot be thrown out in a pedantic manner.

2d. Now, prosecution examined both the informant Jahidul Islam, father of victim girl
and Kanchan Mala and they have corroborated the fact narrated by victim PW-2. Though
the learned counsel appearing for the accused contended that there is no independent
witnesses and the prosecution examined only the family members and their evidence are
exaggerated, concocted and therefore cannot be relied on has no force because the case of
this nature it is hard to find independent witnesses and no one is supposed to be waiting on
the road to see the incident. The family members is the natural person who came to rescue

the victim since the incident in question took place nearby the house of informant. So
coming forward by her grand mother hearing the cry of victim girl cannot be doubted in
any manner. The only care the court of law need to taken is to ascertain the truthfulness of
the witnesses.

28. In the present case, the PW-1, PW-2, PW-3 and PW-4 are all family members. But
in the considered estimation of this court this will not any way discredit the otherwise
trustworthy evidence of the prosecution witnesses merely because they are family
members. After careful appraisal of the evidence of the victim girl supported by the
evidence of PW-1 and PW-3 this court finds that the evidence of victim is very natural and
trustworthy because harassing minor girl with sexual intent on the road or any other place
by hooligan become common place incident. The victim girl in her evidence narrated the
conduct of the accused in a lucid manner and she also narrated the same fact in her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. (Ext.2) baring few minor discrepancies which is bound to occur
in any criminal case as no one can reproduce the facts after considerable gap in
cinematographic manner because of human frailty. It is not expected that a minor girl can
memorize everything and reproduce the same in court. The way in which the incident was
narrated in the FIR (Ext.1) and the statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C (Ext.2) and her evidence in
court, it lend credence in the mind of the court regarding its truthfulness. Therefore, this
court believe the trustworthiness of the evidence of the victim corroborated by PW-1, PW-
2 and PW-3 in material particulars.

29. As contended by the learned counsel there was no delay in lodging the FIR. The
informant promptly lodged the FIR on the day of incident itself narrating the earlier incident
also. Therefore, there is no reason to discredit the facts of the case on the ground of delay
in lodging the FIR. The evidence of PW-1, PW-2, PW-3 and PW-4 are fully consistent,
credible and trustworthy because as deposed by them accused persons stopped the minor
girl on her way back home from school and hurled abusive and colored language against
her and touched her body with sexual intent. In her deposition the victim girl clearly stated
that accused spelt uot bad language and forced her to love Salimuddin and threatened her
and restrained her from proceeding but she was rescued providentially by her grand mother
Kanchan Mala from the spot.

30. The words uttered by the accused persons such as they will do “Baya kam” with
her which in colloquial language means sexual act squrely attracts the ingredients of the
offence defined in section 11(i) and (iv) of POCSO Act as they uttered this words or makes
the gestures in such a manner that the victim girl heard it and they did the same thing on
earlier occasion by harassing her repeatedly on her way to school and back home. The
act/acts indulged by both the accused with the victim girl to restrain her from moving and

holding back her bicycle on her way back home from school also involves physical contract
with sexual intent as per explanation of Section 11 of POCSO Act and the activities of
accused described in Section 11 attracts punishment in Section 12 of POCSO Act. The
minor contradiction here and there as pointed out by the defence counsel in the course of
cross examination of the investigating officer do not any way weaken the prosecution case.
Doctor having found no injury on the victim girl on the day of examination also do not
negate the prosecution case as the victim has not stated in her evidence that she suffered
major injury. Therefore, having not seen any injury mark on the body of victim do not
suggest that the evidence of the victim girl is false and unworthy of credit.

31. As per explanation to section 11 of POCSO Act any question involves “sexual
intent” shall be a question of fact.

32. In the present case, the words uttered by accused and gesture exhibited by them
clearly shows that accused have culpable mental state at the relevant time otherwise they
would not have caused disturbance or harassment to a minor girl returning home from
school alone in her bicycle.

33. On perusal of the evidence of victim and her cross examination it is seen that
defence has not put any question to her that accused did not harass her with sexual intent
or did not utter any sexually colourds words against her with criminal intent. Rather, the
victim girl in her cross examination stated that her father did not taught her to depose
anything in court. Therefore, in the considered estimation, this court can very well presume
as per section 29 of POCSO Act that accused persons committed the offence of sexual
harassment on the victim girl punishable u/s 12 of POCSO Act.

34. If the act/acts of the accused as outline above do not fall within the parameters of
section 11(i)(iv) and the explanation of section 11 then what constitute the offence u/s 11
of POCSO Act punishable u/s 12 of POCSO Act.

35. It is to be noted that the special legislation of POCSO Act has been brought to
contain ever increasing sexual offences against woman irrespective of age when it is felt
that existing penal laws appears inadequate to deal with the increasing offences against
woman. Recently the Parliament also brought amendment to the POCSO Act with a view
to adequately punish the criminals who have been committing the most heinous crime of
sexual offences against the minors. Therefore, every legislation has its specific objective to
deal with the situation prevalent in the country and in the present case, the act of the accused
if ignored merely on some minor technicalities or inconsistencies here and there which is
bound to occur in every criminal trial, the very objective of legislation would be frustrated.
Even otherwise, as discussed above, in the considered estimation of this court the
prosecution has been successful in proving the case against the accused persons of

harassing a tender aged girl while going to school and returning home with filthy and sexual
10

language which has a deep impact on the virgin mind of tender aged girl unless and until
such criminals are dealt with adequately criminal will continue to commit such offences
making life of minor girls unsafe, insecure and put in perpetual catastrophe. Therefore, this
court comes to definite findings that the act of the accused persons certainly fall within the
parameters of section 11 of POCSO Act punishable u/s 12 of the said Act. So, both the
accused are found guilty u/s 12 of POCSO Act. Accordingly, they are convicted.

36. I have considered the provision of section 360 Cr.P.C. but after due consideration
of the attending facts and circumstances of the case and the age of the accused persons
namely accused Sofikul Islam 33 years and accused Slim Uddin 25 years of age and the
nature of the offence committed by them to a tender age girl, this court is not inclined to

extend the benefit of Probation of Offenders Act in favour of accused persons.

SENTENCE HEARING

a1) I have heard the accused persons on the point of sentence as provided u/s 235(2)
Cr.P.C. It is submitted that accused Sofikul Islam is a married person having his wife and
children and accused Salim Uddin being a young unmarried person if they are sent to jail
their innocent family members will suffer for no fault of them. Hence they pleaded to take

a lenient view while awarding sentence.

38. Heaving considered all the attending facts and circumstances of the case,
particularly the extenuating and mitigating circumstances of the case and the punishment
prescribed in section 12 of POCSO Act, 2012 both the accused are convicted and sentenced
to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a term of 2 (two) years and fine of Rs.2000/- (two
thousand) i/d S/I for another 3 (three) months each. The fine amount if deposited be paid

to the victim girl as compensation as provided in section 357 (3) Cr.P.C.

39, The period of detention, if any, undergone by accused persons during the course of
investigation, enquiry or trial shall be set off against the term of imprisonment as provided

u/s 428 Cr.P.C.

AO. Let a copy of the judgment be furnished to accused persons free of cost as provided

in section 363 Cr.P.C.

Al. Let copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District Magistrate, Barpeta
as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.
11

42. Let the case record be consigned to record room after completing the formalities.

43, Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 20th day of September, 2019
at Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me

Sd/- Sd/-
(Sri C.B. Gogoi) (Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
12

APPENDIX

1. The prosecution has examined the following 5 nos. of witnesses :-

PW-1 = Jahidul Islam, the informant.
PW-2 = Victim girl (X).

PW-3 = Kanchan Mala.

PW-4 = Hakimuddin.

PW-5 = Hrishikesh Takhuria.

2. The prosecution has exhibited following document :-

Ext.1 =is FIR.

Ext.= 1(1) & 1(2) = are the signatures of informant Jahidul Islam.
Ext.2 = is the statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

Ext.2(1) & 2(2) = are the signatures of victim (X).

Ext.3-= is the sketch map.

Ext.3(1)= is the signature of I/O.

Ext.4 = is the charge sheet.

Ext.4(1)= is the signature of I/O Hrishikesh Thakuria.

Ext.A(1)= is the birth certificate of victim girl.

Sd/-

(Sri C. B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
