-1-

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: CACHAR; SILCHAR
SPL. POCSO CASE NO .15 of 2015
(U/S 08 of Special POCSO Act.)
Present:-Shri K. Choudhury, LL.M.,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

 

State Of ASSAM ........ccccccseeeccccsssseeseseeeesssseeeesessseeeeessnseeees Complainant.
-Versus-

Amulya Das,

S/O- Anil Chandra Das,

Srikona, Lalmati

P.S.- Silchar, Dist- Cachal..............ccccccsscsssceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesseeeeeeeees Accused.

Charge framed On tm........cecccesceeecsseeeeeseseeeeeeecseeeeeesseseeeseeseeees 12.09.16.

P.Ws. examined on: - 16.11.16; 04.02.17; 15.03.17;
10.04.17; 12.05.17; 05.06.17

Statement of accused recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C :- 28.06.17
Argument heard ON? ~......cccccccccesstseeeeeeecesseeeeeeeeesessssteeeeeeeens 13.07.17

Judgment pronounced and delivered on: 21-07-2017

Learned Counsel Appeared

For the State: -.......cccccceccceeecceeeeceeeceeeaes Mr. R. M.Das, .........+ PP.

For the ACCUSEC: ~........cccccecesecceeecceeeeeeees Sri Probal Deb, Advocate
JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case as it evolves from the record is thaton

18.09.2014 at about 8p.m. the accused took the minor daughter of the
complainant aged about 13 years, here in below referred as the victim,

from the house of Smti Joya Singh at Tarapur by an auto rickshaw, and
-2-

on the way near Powergrid, Srikona the accused forcefully outraged her
modesty and asked her not to disclose about the incident and, if so
disclosed, her parents would face dire consequences. Then on
26.10.2014, the victim, in absence of family members tried to commit
suicide by setting fire on herpouring kerosene. Her body got burnt. She
was, however, rescued and was admitted to SMCH for treatment.
Thereafter, FIR was lodged in Srikona Police Patrol Post and it was
forwarded to Silchar P.S. where, it was registered as Silchar P.S. Case
No. 3014/14 U/S 354/306/511 of IPC.

2. During investigation, statement of the victim got recorded
U/S 164 CrP.C.IO collected medical report which suggests 40-45%
mixed flame burn which was grievous in nature affecting face, neck,
trunk, arms and abdomen of the victim. On completion investigation,
the IO submitted charge-sheet against the accused U/S 354/342/326 of
IPC R/W Section 8 of POCSO Act.

Bn On production of the accused, this Court after furnishing
copies of all necessary police papers to him and hearing both sides,
framed formal charge against the accused U/S under Sec.8 of POCSO
Act. The charge was read over and explained to the accused to which

he pleaded not guilty. Hence, trial began

4. To prove the case prosecution examined as many as eleven
witnesses including the M.O. andthe I.0.Defence pleasare of total
denial. During examination U/S 313 CrP.C, the accused pleaded as
innocent stating the implicating evidence as false. No evidence is

however adduced in his defence.
5. Now, point for decision is as to whether,under the facts and
circumstances of the case, the accused committed any offence of sexual
assault upon the victim as charged U/S 8 of POCSO Act.

6. To decide the above I have heard learned counsel of both
sides at length and perused the entire evidence on record. Findings,

decision and reasons thereof are given below:

7. P.W.1 Abola Das, the mother of the victim, deposed that
about one year prior to the alleged incident the accused took her along
with the victim to the house of one Joya Singh for engaging the victim
as domestic helper in that house. While the victim was working in the
said house, on the date of occurrence, the accused came to that house
and reported that the father of the victim was sick and with that
information, he took the victim on an auto and was returning towards
her house. On the way at about 7 pm, the accused inside the auto by
gagging the mouth of the victim sexually assaulted her forcibly near
Powergrid, Srikona, and left her (victim) near their house. The victim
did not say anything about the incident. After three days, she being
ashamed of herself following the incident, set fire on her person. She
was recovered by her father and taken to SMCH where she was treated
for about 1-1/2 months. During that period, she reported about the

incident.

8. PW-2 Sri Sudham Das, the father of the victim deposed
that he used to work as day labourer and his wife as wage earner.

About 2 years back, while the victim was a student of class V, the
-4-

accused came to their house and took the victim for engagement in the
house of one person of Manipuri Community as domestic helper. During
her stay in that house, she used to express to return home and for that
he asked the accused to bring her (victim) back. After about one month
of work, the accused on such insistence, at one evening, at about 7 pm
brought the victim and left her in front of the house of their neighbour
Nagar baripoint (tilla) and on reaching home she started crying. She did
not utter anything against anybody and after 2-3 days she set fire on
herself. He (PW-2) managed to extinguish fire and rescued her. She was
then taken to SMCH for treatment where she was treatedfor about one
and half months. After treatment, on her return, she reported that on
the date of incident, while she was returning from the house of said
Manipuri person, the accused in front of the house of one Nag family
used force upon her.

9. PW-3 Madhumita Das, co-villagers of the accused, deposed
that at the material time she was in her matrimonial house and the

victim received burnt injuries.

10. PW- 4, the victim, deposed that about 2 years back while
she was working as domestic helper in the house of Joya Singh near
Silchar town, one day at about 8 pm, the accused went there and took
her with him with consent of Joya Singh in an auto driven by him. On
the way, near Power-grid the accused touched her breast forcibly and
threatened her stating that he would not allow any inmates of her
house to come to the road and thereafter left her in front of her
house.She returned home at about 9 p.m. On query as to why she

returned home, she reported she was taken back by the accused, but
-5-

she did not disclose about the aforesaid activities of the accused. About
2/3 days after the above incident, she in one afternoon pouring
kerosene set fire on her. Seeing the same, her father poured water and
rescued her. She was taken to SMCH. She sustained burn injuries over
the middle portion of her body including hands, neck and below her
cheek. She further deposed that about one month prior to the above
incident, she had been engaged as domestic helper by the accused in
the house of said Joya Singh. After returning home from SMCH she
reported the above activities of the accused to her mother. According to
her, for the said activities, she tried to commit suicide. Due to the burnt
injuries, her right hand has become shorter and she cannot perform any

work as earlier. Exhibit-1 is her statement recorded by Magistrate.

11. PW-5, Anil Behari Nag, PW-6 Tapan Kumar Das and PW-7
Jyotirmoy Choudhury are declared hostile by the prosecution. It appears
that they are the neighbours of the victim and the accused. They
denied their previous statements recorded by the IO with regard to the
alleged occurrence of outraging of modesty of the victim by the accused

etc.

12. PW-8 Dr. Asik Ikbal Mazumder, deposed that on
26.10,2014 at about 4 p.m. he examined the victim girl aged about 14
years as indoor patient bearing Registration No. 569/14. She was
discharged on 28.11.2014. Doctor found 42-45% mixed flame burnt
over the face, neck, trunk bilateral arms and abdomen. Injuries were
caused by flame and grievous in nature. All the injuries were fresh.

Exhibit-2 is the medical report.
-6-

13. PW-9, S. Joya Singha deposed that she knew the
accused as auto driver. The victim of this case was brought by the
accused to her house in the year 2014 for engaging as domestic helper.
The victim accordingly worked for one month. After that in one evening
the accused came to her house and requested her to allow the victim to
go with him. After that she handed over the victim to him. He took the
victim by his auto. After few days, parents of the victim along with the
police came to her house and from them she could know about the
allegation brought against the accused to the effect that accused
attempted to commit rape on the victim and the victim to get rid of the

slur wanted to commit suicide setting fire on her with kerosene.

14. PW-10, Sajal Kanti Sengupta, IO, according to him, while
he was posted at Srikona P.P. on 3.12.2014 receiving the FIR gave GD
Entry and forwarded the same to Silchar PS for registration and he took
up investigation opening MCD. He visited the PO of the alleged incident.
He drew also the sketch map of the second PO of the incident of burn
injury. Exhibit-4 is the sketch map of the first PO shown by the victim.
Exhibit-5 is the second PO shown by the complainant. He recorded
statement of the witnesses. He further deposed that after making
several attempts, he could arrest the accused on 23.07.2015. He also
seized document of the auto produced by the father of the accused vide
Exhibit-7. Thereafter, he was transferred and handed over the CD to OC
Silchar PS.

He confirmed the statements brought by the prosecution in the

cross examination of hostile witnesses.

15. PW-11 J. Doungen, deposed during his part of
-7-

investigation, he collected the injury report and submitted charge sheet.
16. During argument, learned PP has submitted that defence
by way of cross examination of material witnesses at very length failed
to shake out the substance of the prosecution case and also failed to
impeach their credibility. Further, it is submitted that evidence are very
natural, corroborative and can be relied upon in its face value,
disregarding some minor discrepancies here and there. It is further
contended that defence has failed to show any reason of false
implication by an adolescent girl. On the contrary, learned defence
counsel strongly contended that there is no burden on the part of the
defence to say any probable reason for any false implication. According
to the learned defence counsel, evidences are not convincing enough to
believe that the victim was engaged by the accused in the house of PW-
9 Joya Singh whom the accused did not know. Further contention is
that it is not believable thatany person without Knowing or having any
acquaintance can hand over any minor girl for domestic work. According
to the learned counsel, evidences are exaggerated and improved

version and therefore cannot be relied upon.

17. It is seen that defence has confirmed some omissions in
the cross examination of PW-10 (1.0). The omissions are as follows:
a) PW-1 did not state before the IO that she along with the
victim were taken to the house of Joya Singh by the accused
about one month prior to the alleged incident. The IO however
asserted that PW-1 stated that the victim was taken at the
advice of the accused.
b) PW-1 did not exactly state before the IO that the accused

committed sexual assault inside the auto and the accused left
-8-

the victim in front of her house.

c) PW-2 did not exactly state before the IO that while the victim
was studying in class V one day the accused came to their house
and took the victim to the house of one Manipuri person at
Silchar and the victim used to express to return back to her
house but it was stated that as per the advice of the accused,
she engaged the victim as a maid in the house of Joya Singh at
Tarapur.

d) PW-1 did not exactly state before the IO that accused left the
victim near the house of Nag family but it was stated that victim
was left in between power grid complex and the homestead of
Nag.

e) PW-2 did not state before the IO that he managed to
extinguish fire and rescued the victim.

f) PW-4 did not state before the IO that the accused left the
victim in front of her house by his auto and the accused
threatened her stating that accused would not allow her parents
or inmates to come on the road but she mentioned about the
threatening of dire consequences.

g) PW-4 did not state before the IO that her father pouring water
rescued her.

h) PW-9 did not state anything disclosing the date, time and year
of the engagement of the victim in her house and handing over

the victim by the accused.

18. Learned defence counsel cited following decisions
highlighting some points (1) 1972 CRI. L J. 1286 (V 78 C 331) Supreme
Court, Evidence Act 1872 Section 3- Criminal Cases — Credibility of
-9-

witnesses — Degree of proof. (2) 2011 CRI. L J. 1844 ( Gauhati High
Court) (Agartala Bench), Evidence Act (1 of 1872) S. 3- Evidence —
Conviction based on improved version of witnesses- Not proper. (3)
2011 CRI. L. J. 817 ( Gauhati High Court) Evidence Act ( 1 of 1872) S. 3
— Evidence of prosecution witnesses — Improved version by prosecution
witnesses made first time in the Court- Cannot be used for the purpose
of conviction of accused. Perused the same. All relates to the
appreciation of evidence. Facts and circumstances of the above cited
cases are not same with that of the instant case in hand. However, I
have taken in to consideration relevant observations for appreciation of

evidence on the record.

19. In the instant case, it is evident that both the victim and
the accused are of the same locality and there are some hillocks on
both sides of their approached road connecting the main National
Highway. It is also evident that the victim sustained serious burn
injuries. In the cross examination she stated that at the material time,
her one brother and three sisters were married, and in their family there
were five members including her sister-in-law.In between the period of
alleged incident and the incident of burn injury, she was not taken to
anybody. She was alone in her house, she did not disclose anything
about the alleged incident to any inmates of the house. She all along
remained silent. Nobody talked with her. PW-1 in the cross examination
stated that although the victim did not say anything about her crying
but they did not get her medically examined. However, they got her
examined by one kobiraj, who provided taviz, kovoz etc. They thought
that the victim was influenced by some unnatural things. The kobjiraj

was a female and her house was situated near Srikona T.V. Tower i.e. in
-10-

the same locality. After three days of the alleged incident, they took the
victim to kobiraj but the victim did not say anything to the kobiraj.

20. The above cross examination further assured that the
victim did not disclose anything to any inmates of the family or any
other about the alleged incident. Some discrepancies are there to the
effect that the victim stated that she all along remained in the house
whereas her mother (PW-1) stated that she was taken to one kobiraj.
Facts remain to be unrebutted that she maintained silence for about 2/3
days after the alleged incident. This silence tends to suggest her state
of mind leading her to take the serious decision of committing suicide.
It is very natural that in case of such silence, mother of any child would
surely take care of the child and would not hesitate to take the child to
any person for treatment. Under the facts and circumstances of this
case, taking the victim to a kob/raj for treatment also seems to be very
natural. During examination in chief of the victim, it was noticed by this
Court that the witness was very introvert in nature and after repeated
query she gave answers.Under such circumstance, non-disclosure of the
alleged incident is considered to be very natural for a girl of such
introvert in nature. Reaction to any such type of alleged incident by any
minor girl would naturally vary from person to person. Here in the
instant case, the victim appears to have taken serious steps for self-
inflammation. No other reason for taking of such serious step is found
in the entire evidence on the record except that she was sexually

assaulted.

21. PW-9 could identify the accused as auto driver. She

asserted that the accused handed over the victim for engagement as
-11-

domestic helper in her house. She further asserted in the cross
examination that the accused took back the victim and she came to
know about the alleged incident from the parents of the victim. The
accused merelytermed her evidence as false and also stated that he did
not know her (PW-9). It is not at all believable that any unknown
person of other locality would depose falsely involving any unknown

person for no reason.

Des There is no material contradiction or omission. No reason
is found for disbelieving the testimonies of the material witnesses.
Therefore for the reason cited above, this Court inclined to rely upon
the unequivocal, corroborative evidence of the material witnesses in its
face value. So, it can rightly be arrived at that the accused at the
material time, committed sexual assault as deposed by the victim within
the meaning of Section 7 of the POCSO Act.

23. In view of the above discussions and entire evidence on
the record, it is held that prosecution has been able to prove its case
beyond all reasonable doubt U/S 8 of the POCSO Act. Therefore

accused is held guilty and convicted accordingly.

24. Heard the accused on the question of sentence. His statements
are recorded in separate sheet and tagged with the case record. He has
prayed for leniency on the ground that he is the only member of his
family consisting wife and aged parents. Having due regard to his
statements and the sufferings of the victim following his act, this Court
convicts and sentence him to undergo R/I (Rigourous Imprisonment) for

a period of 3 (three) years along with fine of Rs. 10,000/- (ten
-12-

thousand) and I/D he shall further undergo R/I for a period of 2 (two)
months. Fine amount if realized shall be paid to the victim as

compensation.

25. In addition to above compensation, consideration of the
seriousness of the burn injuries sustained by the victim for theattempt
to commit suicide to get rid of the feeling of insult etc. following the act
of sexual assault on her affecting her personal dignity and privacy, and
consideration of financial position of her family and loss of her efficacy
due to her partial disablement and deformities in her appearance, I am
of the view that the victim is required to be sufficiently compensated.
Further, it appears that the trauma, pains and sufferings which she has
already undergone will follow her throughout her life. Therefore, she
also needs to be rehabilitated properly. Having consideration of the
above and all other aspects, this Court is of the view that an amount of
Rs. 3,00,000/- (Three Lakhs) may be awarded as compensation to be
paid by the District Legal Service Authority, Cachar. Secretary DLSA will
take appropriate step for payment of the compensation. Copy of the
Judgment along with the deposition of P.W.1,2,3,4& 8 be forwarded to
Secretary DLSA. Copy of the Judgment also be forwarded to the
Secretary, Govt. of Assam, Political Department, for taking necessary

step for payment of the compensation.

26. Free copy of the Judgment be furnished to the accused as
per as per the Provision of Section 363 of Cr.P.C. and a copy also be
forwarded to the District Magistrate as per section 365 of Cr.P.C. Copy

of the Judgment shall also be forwarded to the S.P., Cachar, Silchar.
-13-

27. Bail Bond stands discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court

under my signature and seal of this court on this 21st day of July, 2017.

Dictated & Corrected by me

(Shri K. Choudhury), (Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge. Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by

D. Paul.
Stenographer Gr. III.
-14-

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR

SPL POCSO Case No. 15 of 2015.
APPENDIX

 

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

P.W.1 -—Abola Das

P.W. 2 —Sudham Das.

P.W. 3 — Madumita Das.

P.W.4 — Rajabala Das.

P.W.5 — Anil Behari Nag.

P.W.6 — Tapan Kumar Das

P.W. 7 — Jyotirmoy Choudhury
P.W.8 — Dr. AsikIkbalMazumder
PW. 9 — S. JoyaSingha

PW. 11 — SajalkantiSengupta
P.W. 12 — JangkhojuonDoungen.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: -

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.1 — Statement

Ext.1(1)& 1(2) = — Signatures of P.W.4

Ext. 2 — Medical Report.

Ext-2(1) — Signatures of PW 8.

Ext.3 — FIR

Ext. 3(1) — Signatures of P.W.10

Ext. 3(2) — Signatures of the then OC
Ext. 4 — Sketch Map

Ext.4(1) — Signature of P.W. 10.

Ext. 5 — Sketch map of P.O. No. 2
Ext. 5(1) — Signatures of P.W.10

Ext. 6 — Arrest Memo.

Ext. 7 — Seizure List.

Ext. 7(1) — Signatures of P.W.10
Ext. 7(2) — Signatures of father of accused.

Ext. 8 — Charge Sheet.
-15-

Ext. 8(1) — Signaturesof P.W.11

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - —NIL

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

(Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
