SplI.(POCSO) Case No.14/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE #: tii: CACHAR.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.14 of 2019
(U/S 376 of IPC and Sec.4 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State of Assam

-Versus-
1. Moloy Chanda
2. Rajen Chand a.........ccccccccccccccccssteesssstessseeeee Accused persons.
Charge framed On !-.........cccceeeceeeessteseeeeeessseeeeeeseaeees 20.11.19
P.WS. EXAMINE ON i... ccc eeeeeeeeessssceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeess 4.3.2020,
Argument heard Ont wi..cccccessectceesesssssesesenensees 4.3.2020.
Judgment pronounced and delivered on:-..........000 4.3.2020.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : Sri. S. Sengupta,ld. Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an

FIR with the In-Charge, Udharbond Police Station stating the facts that
his daughter ,the victim, ( name withheld ) had love affairs with accused
Moloy Chanda and on 3.4.18 at about 7 p.m. on the conspiracy of accused
persons the victim came out and accused Moloy Chanda had taken her

away on enticing her and on promise of marriage he committed rape on
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.14/19

her and the accused persons fled away leaving the victim on the place of
occurrence.
2. On receipt of the FIR, I/c Palonghat police outpost forwarded
the same to Dholai PS wherein a_ regular PS case vide Dholai P.S. Case
No. 89 of 18 U/S 376 of IPC was registered . Police started investigation
and during the course of investigation the statement of the victim girl was
recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C and the victim was medically examined. Police also
visited the place of occurrence and drew up a sketch map and recorded the
statement of the witnesses and subsequently after completion of
investigation submitted charge sheet against the accused persons U/S
376 of IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act.
3. As the offence under POCSO Act exclusively triable by Special
court , trial was taken up by this court and subsequently in due course
after hearing both sides formal charge U/S 376 IPC and Section 4 of
POCSO Act was framed by this court against the accused persons. The
charge having been read over and explained, the accused persons pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried.
4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-
(1) Whether the accused person on 3.4.18 at about 7 p.m. at
village Patabari under Dholai PS committed rape on the victim, as alleged?
(2) Whether the accused person committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim, as alleged ?
5. Prosecution examined as many as two witnesses , the victim
and the informant as PW.1 and PW.2. On the submission of the Id. Special
P.P. the evidence for the prosecution side is closed. As no incriminating
materials appears to be found against the accused during evidence the
recording of statement of the accused U/S 313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.

6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.14/19

also heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF
Pe Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused
person as mentioned in points for determination.
8. PW.1, the victim, deposed in her deposition that her father
lodged the FIR against the accused persons. She added that she was having
love affairs with accused Moloy Chanda and out of her own accord she went
with him in her sister’s house and the same fact is not known to her father
and as such he lodged the FIR against them. She further deposed that after
that police recovered and sent her to Silchar Medical College and Hospital for
her medical examination and thereafter she was brought to Court where her
statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C was recorded and thereafter she was given in
zimma of her father. Ext. 1 is her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. wherein Ext.
1(1) is her signature.

PW.1 stated in her cross examination that she gave statement
before Magistrate U/S 164 Cr.P.C as tutored by her relatives. She also
stated that she does not have any grievances against both the accused
persons. She further stated that at the time of lodging of FIR by her father
she was aged about 19 years. She also stated that she does not know for
what reasons her father lodged the FIR and he did the same without
consulting her.

9. PW.2 Monindra Das who is the informant of this case deposed in
his evidence that on the date of occurrence, he was in the market and on
return at night he did not find his daughter, the victim and they searched for
her but not finding her, he lodged an FIR with the Palongghat Outpost. Ext.
2 is the FIR wherein Ext. 2(1) is his signature. PW.2 further deposed that

police recovered his daughter from the house of his niece, and that his
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.14/19

daughter was brought to the Court and thereafter police gave her in his
zimma. He further deposed that he gave her daughter in marriage and she
is now staying in her in law’s house at Smithnagar under Sonai PS.

In the cross examination he stated that he does not know the
contents of the FIR and the FIR was got written by his relatives and he
only put his signature. He also stated that after recovery victim told him
that she went with the accused Moloy Chanda out of her own accord. PW.2
also stated that at the time of occurrence, the age of his daughter was
about 19 years. He also stated that he does not have any grievances against
the accused persons.

10. Appreciating the evidence available on record as discussed
above, it reveals that the prime witness the victim PW.1 and the informant
PW.2 did not at all implicate the accused persons in the alleged offence of
crime in their deposition. Rather from the evidence of PW.1 it appears that
out of love affairs she went with accused Moloy Chanda and as the same
was not known to her father PW.2, he lodged the FIR and at that time she
was aged about 19 years. PW.2 the informant also deposed that her victim
daughter was recovered from the house of his niece and in cross
examination he stated that the FIR was got written by his relatives and he
does not have any knowledge about its contents and at the relevant time
victim was about 19 years. Both the witnesses stated in their cross
examination that they have no grievances against the accused persons. For
non implication of the accused persons by the prime witnesses the victim
and the informant the both the accused persons deserve to be acquitted.

11. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/s 376 of IPC and Sec. 4

of POCSO Act against accused persons.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.14/19

12. In view of the above, accused persons are not held guilty and
stand acquitted of the charge leveled against them and they are set at
liberty forthwith.

Bail bonds stand discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on
this the 4th day of March, 2020.

Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee, Stenographer
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.14/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 14 of 2019.

APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
P.W. 1 — victim ,
PW. 2 — Monindra Das,

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: -_ NIL

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — Statement of victim
Ext.2 - FIR

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
