SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/18

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: CACHAR.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.03 of 2018

(U/S 366 IPC and Sec. 4 of POCSO Act)

Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......cccccccsseecccccssssaessseeesssseeees Complainant.
-Versus-

Krishan Rabidas alias Krishna..................0 Accused person.

P.Ws. examined Ont-.......ccccceeeees 13/6/18,6/8/18,11/1/19

Argument heard ON !m ........ccccccccecccceeeeeeeeeeeseesseeeeees 29/8/19.

Judgment pronounced and delivered on:-............. 11/9/19.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State :  Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : Mr. D.K. Ghosh, Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an

FIR before the O/c Udharbond PS stating the facts that on 1.4.17 at
about 2 p.m. the accused kidnapped the minor daughter of the informant

on inducing her. The informant during search of her daughter came to
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/18

know that the accused along with her daughter had appeared before the
police station. The informant went to the police station and found the
accused person along with his daughter.

2. On receipt of the FIR, case was registered vide Udharbond PS.
Case No.65/17 U/S 366(A) of IPC. Police started investigation and during
the course of investigation the statement of the victim girl was recorded
U/S 164 CrP.C. The victim girl was also sent to SMCH, Silchar for medical
examination. The investigating officer visited the place of occurrence and
prepared a rough sketch map. He also recorded statement of the witnesses
and subsequently after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet
against the accused U/S 366 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. The offence Sec.4 of POCSO Act of the case being exclusively
triable by the Court of Special Judge, this case was taken up for trial after
filing of the charge sheet. In due course, upon appearance of the accused
and after hearing both sides formal charge U/S 366 IPC and Section 4 of
POCSO Act was framed by my predecessor in office against the accused
person. The charges having been read over and explained the accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(i) Whether the accused kidnapped the victim Purnima Rabidas
with the intent that she might be compelled or knowing that it to be likely
that she will be compelled to marry against her will or that she might be
forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, as alleged?

(2) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault
on the victim girl, as alleged ?

5. From the prosecution side as many as 5 witnesses have been
examined including the informant and the victim. The defence side has

examined none. The statements of the accused person was recorded U/S
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/18

313 CrP.C. where the accused person denied the allegations against him.
Defence declined to adduce evidence.
6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have also
heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.
DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-O
I Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the
accused person as mentioned in point for determination.

PW.1, Arjun Rabidas is the informant of this case. He deposed in
his deposition that about one and half years back at about 3 p.m. the
occurrence took place. On the date of occurrence at about 8 p.m. police
informed him that his daughter Purnima and the accused Kishan Rabidas
had surrendered in Udharbond PS. Purnima was missing on the same day
and at the time of occurrence her age was 15 years only. Purnima told
PW.1 that she had gone with the accused who took he away from her
house. Before this occurrence also on earlier occasion the accused had
kidnapped Purnima and she was recovered from his house. PW.1 lodged
Ejahar vide Ext.1 and Ext.1(1) is his signature. At the time of occurrence
Purnima was a student of class-VI.

PW.1 in his cross examination stated that prior to the incident of
this case the victim went away with the accused earlier and he brought
back her, and that as the parents of the accused did not accept his
daughter as their daughter-in-law PW.1 lodged this FIR. PW.1 also
specifically stated in his cross examination that the accused neither
induced his daughter nor kidnapped her and it was decided that his
daughter would be given marriage with the accused in due time. PW-1
also stated in his cross examination that his daughter went to the house

of the accused at her own will and PW.1 has no grievance against the
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/18

accused.

8. PW.2, the victim Purnima Rabidas deposed in her deposition that
at the time of occurrence i.e. about one year back from her date of
deposition at about 12 p.m. she was in her home wherefrom being
accompanied by the accused she went to Udharbond Kachakanti Mandir
and there the accused put vermilion on her forehead. Thereafter, herself
and the accused surrendered in the Udharbond P.S. and her father PW.1
lodged and FIR with the Udharbond PS. She further deposed that at the
time of occurrence she was a student of Arkatipur Basic School in class
VI/VII.

PW.2 stated in his cross examination that prior occurrence of this
case earlier she went with the accused and on the date of occurrence she
went to the house of the accused and there the parents of the accused
did not agree to accept her as their daughter in law and thereafter they
solemnized their marriage with the help of a priest at Udharbond and
accused put vermilion on her forehead. She further stated in her cross
examination that thereafter they went to P.S. and informed that they got
married. She categorically stated in her cross examination that accused
did not induce or kidnap her nor committed any bad act with her. The
matter has been amicably settled by the elders of both the parties and
she has no grievances against the accused.

9. PW.3 Moyna Rabidas deposed in his deposition that on the date
of occurrence at about 8 p.m. on being called by Udharbond PS he went
there along with the guardians of accused Kishan Rabidas and the victim
Purnima Rabidas and came to know that Purnima and Kishan after
performing marriage in Kachakanti Mandir had surrendered in the
Udharbond PS. He further deposed that thereafter as per instruction of

Udharbond police he handed over Purnima to Ujjala home and at that
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/18

time the accused was arrested.

PW.3 in his cross examination stated that the matter has been
amicably settled between both the parties to the effect that in due course
after attaining majority the victim will be given in marriage with the
accused.

10. PW.4 is the Medical Officer, Dr. Monalisa Dev who on 2.4.17
examined the victim Purnima Rabidas on police requisition and PW.4
deposed that the alleged victim gave a history that she was in
relationship with Krishna Rabidas since one year and willfully ran away
with the boy and went to Kachakanti Mandir and got married and went to
the house of that boy and father of the boy told them to go to the police
station. PW-4 also deposed that after examination of the victim girl she
was of the opinion that the age of the individual is above 14 and below
16 years, evidence of recent sexual penetration not detected as on date
of examination, injury marks not detected on her body/genitals except old
hymenal tears and the individual does not carry pregnancy.

11. PW-5 Taibur Rahman Choudhury who is the IO of the case
deposed in his deposition that he had done all the routine works of
investigation at various stages such as visiting of the P.O., getting done
recording of statements of the victim persons u/s 164 Cr.P.C, sending the
victim for medical examination etc. and ultimately after completion of
investigation he submitted charge sheet against the accused person u/s
366 IPC r/w sec. 4 of POCSO Act vide Ext.5 and Exy.5(1) is his signature.

PW.5 in his cross examination stated that the victim did not state
before him in her statement u/s 161 of CrP.C. in respect of any sexual
harassment by the accused.

12. Appreciating the evidence on record it appears that PW.5 is the

IO who has narrated the various stages of investigation conducted by
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/18

him. He has proved the charge sheet as Ext.5. PW.4, Dr. Monalisa Dev is
the Medical Officer who had examined the victim and opined that the
victim is above 14 years and below 16 years of age and evidence of
recent sexual penetration is not detected and no injury marks were
detected on the body or genital part of the victim. She also opined that
victim does not carry pregnancy.

13. PW.1 is the informant and father of the victim who although has
stated at the time of occurrence his victim daughter was a student of
class VI but during cross examination he has stated that prior to the
incident also victim went away with the accused and he brought back her.
He also stated that as parents of the accused did not accept his victim
daughter as their daughter in law therefore he lodged this FIR. He has
specifically stated that accused has neither induced her daughter nor
kidnapped her and his daughter went to the house of the accused at her
own will and therefore he has got no grievances against the accused.
PW.3 Moyna Rabidas has stated in his evidence that he went to
Udharbond PS wherein the accused and the victim surrendered and he
came to know that they had performed marriage. During cross
examination he has further stated that the matter has been amicably
settled between both the parties to the effect that in due course after
attaining majority the victim will be given in marriage with the accused.
PW.1, the father of the victim has also stated that it was decided that his
daughter would be given marriage with he accused in due time.

14. PW.2, the victim deposed in her evidence that about one year
back she went with the accused to Udharbond Kachakanti Mandir wherein
vermillion was put to her on her forehead by the accused and thereafter
they surrendered before Udharbond PS and her father the PW.1 lodged

the FIR. During cross examination she has stated that accused did not
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/18

induce her nor kidnapped her nor committed any bad act with her. She
also stated that the matter has been amicably settled by both the parties
and she has no grievances against the accused.
15. Therefore, it is found that although the victim has found to be
aged between 14 and 16 years but the prosecution has failed to prove
the offence u/s 366 IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused person beyond all reasonable doubt. So, I hold that the accused
deserves to be acquitted.
16. In view of the above, accused is not held guilty and stands
acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty
forthwith.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on

this the 11" day of September, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee,
Stenographer Gr. I
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/18

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 3 of 2018.

APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — Arjun Rabidas
P.W. 2 — Purnima Rabidas.
PW. 3 — Moyna Rabidas.
P.W. 4 — MO Smt.Monalisa Deb.
PW. 5 — IO Sri T.R. Choudhury

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — FIR.

Ext. 2 — statement.
Ext. 3 — Medical report.
Ext. 4 — sketch map
Ext. 5 — charge sheet.

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
