Page 1 of 3

Spl (POCSO) Case No. 10/2017
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI,

SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl. (POCSO)Case No. 10/2017
u/s Sec. 4 of POCSO Act 2012

 

State of Assam

=“/S-
Sri Phanindra Das @ Harindra Das
wee Accused
Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,

Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

    

      
 

oy
"D4
Sa,

~~
ea
:

Tae” Advocates Appeared:-
ial For the prosecution: Mr. J. Bardoloi, learned Addl. P.P

For the defence =: Mr. S. Rahman, learned Advocate.

Date of recording Evidence: 25.07.2018.
Date of Argument ; 25.0A2018,
Date of Judgment 2 25.07.2016.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 22.05.2017 the informant, Sri Ganesh Das
lodged an FIR with the O/C, Halem P.S. stating inter-alia that on the previous day at
about 5.30 p.m., his 15 year old daughter(name is withheld) was called by the accused,

we Harindara Das to the nearby Tea Garden and committed rape on her. Hearing the noise
EX raised by her, his son went to the place of occurrence. But he found, both his daughter
08 ys and the accused running on different directions. The accused was caught by his son.

\ eee Later, they could know about the whole incident from the victim.
per oe 2. Receiving the same, the police registered a case and submitted charge-sheet against the

accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act. The accused in due course appeared before this Court to
face trial. The copies of the relevant documents were furnished to him. Upon hearing
both the sides on the point of charge, taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173
CrPC, as this Court found grounds for presuming that the accused had committed an
offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act, the charge was accordingly framed against him,
which on being read over and explained, he pleaded not guilty.

3. During trial, the prosecution examined the informant and the alleged victim. Looking

into the evidence as adduced by both these two vital witnesses, the prosecution
 

Page 2 of 3
Spl (POCSO) Case No. 10/2017
declined to examine the remaining witnesses contending that further evidence would

not strengthen the prosecution case. Looking into the materials and record, the
prosecution evidence was closed. As no incriminating evidence was found against the
accused, his examination u/s 313 CrPC was dispensed with. The case was thereafter,
argued by both the sides.
Points for determination
Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed penetrative sexual
assault on the said victim, who is below the age of 18 years?
, Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
PW 1 is the informant, Ganesh Das. He stated that on the said day of the occurrence
the accused had told him that he would take away his daughter. Later, when they found
their daughter with the accused, they brought her back to house. For that incident, he
lodged the FIR, which he proved as Ext. 1. In his cross-examination he stated that he
has no knowledge as to what has been written on the FIR as he is an illiterate person.
He stated that he lodged the FIR out of misunderstanding.
. The PW 2- the victim stated that on the day of the said occurrence, her elder-brother
Golok Das found her along with the accused and suspecting them of having any bad
relationship, he caught both of them. Thereafter, her father lodged an FIR. She proved
her statement recorded u/s 164 CrPC as Ext. 2. She stated in her cross that the accused
is her the elder-brother in relation. The FIR was lodged due to the misunderstanding of
her elder brother and her father. She stated that the accused did not misbehave with
her and what she had stated in the Ext. 2 was based on what has been asked by others
to state.
Thus, from the evidence of both these witnesses, more particularly from the evidence of
the alleged victim, we do not find any material to convict the accused on the offence
charged. The prosecution has failed to prove its case. As such, I acquit the accused
person from the offence charged against him and set him at liberty forthwith. The
petition no. 1467/18 filed by the accused u/s 437-A CrPC is allowed upon hearing both
the sides. His bail bond is extended for a period of six months. A copy of the judgment
be forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec. 365 Cr.P.C.
The case is disposed of.
Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 25'" day of July, 2018.

dete x
Additional Session?Ju ee

Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.

Addi. Sessions dudge

wiswanath Chariali, Senitpur
Page 3 of 3
Spl (POCSQ) Case No. 10/2017

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Sri Ganesh Das
PW2- Victim

 

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Exhibit-1: FIR.
Exhibit-2: Statement u/s 164 CrPC.

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

None.

ee
ga\nl*

dge
_ Sessions Jucge
en Chariali, Sonitpur
