Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s :

313 of CrP.
Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel of the Prosecution

Counsel. for Accused

39 OF 2016

(Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act,

arising out of GR Case No 3928 of 2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

State of Assam

-Vs-

1.Gopal Mandal

S/o Sri Ramesh Mandal,

Vill- Kusumtola,

P.S. — Jamuguri,

Dist- Sonitpur.
02-11-2017

04-01-2018, 06-02-2018.

06-02-2018.

06-02-2018.
06-02-2018.

Mr Munindra Ch Baruah,
Special Public Proecutor,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Mr A Bhuyan, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Gopal Mandal is put for trial for the allegation of

charge under Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

2. The various facts leading to institution of this case according to FIR in

brief is that the informant is the wife of an employee of 12™ APBn of Sootea and

resides at the campus of the said Battalion. At the time of filing the ejahar, the
Page |2

informant’s husband was posted at Guwahati and therefore, his 17 years old younger
brother Kushal Panyang used to stay with the informant. But, on or about 5.30 PM of
23-11-2016 while the informant’s younger brother went to Kusumtola Centre for
marketing and returned to informant’s house, the accused followed him with a bad
intention, embraced him and attempted to commit misdeed. But, somehow the

informant’s brother was save. Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the informant Smti Deiji Prabha Pawe before
the OC, Jamuguri Police Station on 24-11-2016.

4. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C, Jamuguri Police Station registered the
case vide Jamuguri Police Station Case No 158/16 under Section 8 of POCSO Act.
After completion of investigation, O/C, Jamuguri Police Station»sent up the case

against accused person Gopal Mandal under Section 8 of POCSO Act.

5. On being appeared the accused»before this Court, after hearing both
the parties, charge framed under Section 8.of.POCSO Act. Particulars of the charge
was read over, explained to the accused*to.which he pleaded not guilty and claimed
to be tried.

6. To substantiate.the case, prosecution examined as many as six PWs
including the informant.and_ victim. After examination of the witnesses, learned
Counsel for the accused submitted to close the prosecution evidence on the ground
that the victim(PW5) stated nothing against the accused as to the alleged charge
under Section.8 of POCSO Act. Therefore, it would be futile to examine the other

witnesses; Learned Special PP also conceded.

7. A close scrutiny of the statement of witnesses, particularly the victim,
it appears that the statement of victim did not reveal the materials of alleged charge.
Therefore, I think that it would be futile to examine the other witnesses. Even if
examine the other witnesses, prosecution case would not develop. Speedy trial is the

right of the accused person. Considering this all, prosecution evidence is closed.

8. Accused is examined under Section 313 CrPC and the evidence

appears against the accused person and the allegations made against the accused
Page |3

person are put before him for his explanation where he denied the allegations and

declined to give defence evidence.

9. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned Counsel for
both the sides.
10. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) "Whether the accused on or about 5.30 PM of
23-11-2016 on the way from Kusumtola Centre to
12" APBn Quarter under Jamugurihat police
Station committed sexual assault on. Kushal
Panyang aged about 17 and thereby committed an
offence punishable under Section 8 of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

 

11. To arrive at the judicial decision; etme appreciate the evidences on
record.
12. PW1 — Sri Prabhat Nath.deposed that the accused Gopal Mandal was

one of the constables of their battalions The incident took place on 23-11-2016. At
the time of incident, he was posted_as Habildar at 12° APBn Camp, Head Quarter,
Kosumtola. At that time they have heard from our companion that one of our
battalion constables was beaten by public. Accordingly, he went out to see the
incident. Then he_came)to know that it is the accused Gopal Mandal who is our
constable. He was trying to rescue him from the public, but, the public refused to

hand over him.the’said person. Then, he informed the matter to our senior.

13 PW2- Sri Ram Nath Teron, who turned hostile by the prosecution,
deposed that the accused was one of the constables of their battalion. The incident
took place on 23-11-2016. At the relevant time he was on duty of Regimental Police
Duty on Gate of the Battalion Head Quarters. During that time, a lady came to their
battalion to file one application, I was on gate duty, So, he asked their Battalion
Habildar Prabhat Nath. He suggested the said lady to drop_ the
representation/application in Dispatch Branch. Other than that, he does not know

about the incident. Police did not record his statement. Then he turned hostile.
Page |4

In his cross-examination, he stated that he has no enmity with Deiji
Prabaha Pawe or with Kushal Panyang, therefore, there is no reason to made false

statement today.

15. PW3 — Smti Bulumoni Das deposed that she cannot recall when the
incident took place. She does not know anything about the incident. I have even not
heard anything about the incident. Police recorded my statement. One Manash Powe
asked me to show the house of Gopal Mandal. Accordingly, I showed the said person
to the house of Gopal Mandal. Said Manash Powe told me that Gopal Mandal took

one boy for doing misdeed.

16. PW4 — Smti Deiji Prabha Pawe, the complainant of this case deposed
that the incident took place about one year ago. At the relevantytime, her husband
was posted on deputation at Guwahati. Therefore, she has. kept her brother Kushal
Panyang with her. At the relevant time, her younger ‘brother Kushal Panyang was
about 16 years. On the date of incident, in the-evening time at about 5.30 PM she
has sent her said younger brother to purchase vegetable from Kosumtola Centre.
While he returned to home, accused Gopal.Mandal followed him and dragged him to
a dark place. Then her brother asking what he wants to do, then accused embraced
her brother. The accused also attempt to put off her brother’s pant. Then her brother
rescued somehow and came to her home and reported the whole incident to her. As
her husband was there. at.our home, her brother also reported him about the
incident. Then her_husband asked her brother whether, he can identify the accused.
Then her brother told that he can identify the accused. Then her husband and
brother went*out to search of accused. On the way they meet Bulu Das Baideo near
the Namghar inside our campus and her husband asked said Bulu Baideo, where
Gopal\Mandal resides. Then Bulu Das showed the house of Gopal Mndal. Accordingly,
her husband went to the house of Gopal Mandal and called him. But, he could found
Gopal Mandal. Then, mother of Gopal Mandal told her husband that Gopal Mandal
was at the relevant time inside their home. But, after sometime accused Gopal
Mandal came out from our house and confessed his guilt before her husband and
asked him to excuse him. Then, her brother identified the accused. Then, she lodged
the ejahar. Ext. 1 is the said ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is her signature. Along with the
ejahar, she has filed Photostat copy of age certificate of her brother and also filed

one Photostat copy of Registration Card of HSLC of her brother. The ejahar was
Page |5

written by herself.

In cross-examination, she stated that she has sent her brother Kushal
Panyang to market and he accordingly went to market alone. Market is situated at a
distance of about 2 KM from her house. She does not know anything about the
incident, till his return from market. She has not seen the incident personally. Her
brother told her that in dark place accused tried to drag him. He saves somehow and
ran to the out. When her brother was taken by her husband to the house of accused,
she was at her home. She has not accompanied them. She has made statement
today as reported by her brother and husband. In previous occasion also, accused

tried to drag her brother. During that time they have informed their senior authority.

17. PW5 — Sri Kushal Panyang, the victim of this case stated that the
incident took place on 23-11-2016 at about 5.30 PM. During that-time, she went to
Kosumtola Centre to purchase vegetable from his sister's house. When, he return to
my sister’s home, as he reached near a Namghar inside the battalion campus,
accused Gopal Mandal followed him and asked_him*where from you and then he told
him that he came from market. Thereafter,the.accused again followed him and near
the Namghar he dragged him in a dark place and attempted to put off his pant.
Then, he somehow rescued himself forcefully. Then, he went to her sister’s house
and reported the matter to his sister. Then, he called his brother-in-law Manash Pawe
and informed the matter. Then, he went to the house of Gopal Mandal and on the
way they met one lady namely Bulu Das Baideo. Then, his brother-in-law asked Bulu
Das about the house. of jaccused Gopal Mandal. Then she showed us the house of
accused. Then«we went to the house of accused Gopal Mandal and though initially
Gopal Mandal. did’ not come out, but, ultimately come out and his brother-in-law
asked_about the incident to him. He asked him that at the time of incident, he put
another shirt, but, at the time of search he put different shirt. Though the accused
initially did not confess his guilty, but, subsequently, he confessed his guilty and also
asked us for excuse him. He also stated that once in the month of September, 2016,
the accused attempt to follow his. Then, his sister filed the written complaint to DSB.
Then, police recorded his statement and also sent him to the Court for recording his
statement under Section 164 of CrPC. Ext. 2 is his statement recorded under Section
164 CrPC, where Ext. 2(1) and Ext. 2(2) are his signatures.

In his cross-examination, he stated that on the way to home from
Page |6

market, accused asked him from where he has come. There are quarters near the
Namghat. When accused dragged him, he did not raise alarm. Then, a scuffle took
place between him and the accused. Then he somehow rescued from the clutch of
the accused and ran towards his sister’s home. So, accused did not able to do
anything, except the scuffle. Accused has also tried to pull his shirt. Thereafter, he
had a scuffle. He has reported the whole incident to his elder sister. He has not
reported to police about the incident of September,2016. On the day of incident, he
has only came to know the name of accused from Balu Baideo. He does not know
the contents of ejahar which was lodged by his sister. My brother-in-law did not file
any case. Other than his sister and Bulu Das, he has not reported the matter=to any
person. Police took him to before the Magistrate for recording his“~statement under
Section 164 CrPC after about one week of incident. When police took him to the
Court for recording him 164 CrPC statement, he has accompanied by her elder
brother-in-law Deba Kt Tide.

18. PWe6- Sri Lakhi Kalita deposed that on 25-07-2017 he was posted as a
Sub-inspector of police at Jamuguri PS. On that day, a case diary of Jamuguri PS
Case No 158/16 was handed over to him by. previous IO Raju Bahadur Chetri, OC,
Jamuguri PS for verbal investigation. On receipt of the case diary, I have thoroughly
perused. It appears to him thatshis_earlier IO almost completed the investigation.
Therefore, upon the case diary based on investigation made by his predecessor, he
filed charge sheet against the accused Gopal Mandal under Section 8 of POCSO Act.
Ext. 3 is the charge sheet and ext. 3(1) is his signature.

In his cross-examination he stated that he has not done any
investigation of the case, nor he has recorded any statement of the witnesses. He
denied.the suggestion that he has filed charge sheet against the accused in spite of

having.no any materials against the accused.

19. These much is the prosecution evidence.

20. The learned Counsel for the accused submitted that prosecution has
failed to prove the case, as the victim stated nothing ingredients of the alleged
charged. According to victim (PW5) at the relevant time he went to Kusumtola
Centre for purchase vegetable for his sister’s house. When he returned to his sister’s

house and reached near the Namghar inside the battalion campus, accused followed
Page |7

him and asked him where he had come and then he told him that he came from
market. Thereafter, accused again followed him and near the Namghar dragged him
in a dark place and attempted to put off his pant. Then he rescued somehow and at
home reported the matter to his sister and in cross-examination, he admitted that
when accused dragged him, he did not raise alarm and then a scuffle took place in
between him and the accused and then somehow he rescued from the clutches of
the accused and ran towards his house. Therefore, he stated nothing any
incriminating evidence of the alleged charge of sexual assault. As such, prosecution

failed to prove the ingredients of the alleged charged.

21. I have also heard the learned PP. Keeping in«mind ‘the rival
submissions advanced by the learned Counsel for both the parties,,;I am going to

dispose of the case as follows.

22. Before parting with the case record, I would like to see the ingredients
of sexual assault. According to definition of Sexual ‘Assault, which defined to Section
7 of POCSO Act that :—
"Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus

or breast of the child and makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus

or breast of such person or any other person, or does any other Act with

sexual intent which involves_physical contact without penetration is said

to commit sexual assaualt”
23. In this type of_cases, the evidence of victim is utmost necessary. Here
in this case, fromthe statement of victim(PW5) nowhere stated about any
ingredients as-Stated in Section 7 to attract the offence of Sexual Assault. Here in
this case, there are no other eye witnesses except the victim. As discussed herein
before,.the victim nowhere stated anything about ingredients of alleged offence. It
also.appeared that PW2 Sri Ram Nath Teron was turned hostile. The hostile portion
of evidence is nowhere corroborated by the statement of any other witnesses.
Therefore, his hostile portion of statement cannot be used to convict the accused in
the alleged charged. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the charge under Section 8

of PPOCSO Act is failed to prove by the prosecution.

24. On careful perusal of the whole case record as discussed herein
before, I am bound to hold that prosecution has failed to prove the alleged charged

against the accused. As such, the accused is entitled to get the benefit of doubt.
Page |8

Accordingly, accused Gopal Munda is acquitted on benefit of doubt and set him at
liberty forthwith.

25. The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

26. Send back the LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 6” day of
February, 2018.

(A. K. Borah)

Special Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Dictated and corrected by me.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |9

APPENDIX

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Sri Prabhat Nath,

2.PW2 — Sri Ram Nath Teron,

3.PW3 — Smti Bulumoni Das,

4.PW4 — Smti Deiji Prabha Pawe(complainant),
5.PW5 — Sri Kushal Panyang(victim) &

2.PW6 — Sri Lakhi Kalita(IO).

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

1. Ext. 1 : The ejahar.
2. Ext. 2 : Statement of the victim recorded under Section-164.CrPC &
3. Ext. 3 : Charge sheet.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
