Page 1 of 28

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 67 of 2017
Under section 302/201 of the IPC and 8 of the POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Tezpur PS Case No. 2253/17)
State of Assam

—Vs—
Sri Dhiren Tanti _ Accused Person

Present : Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State : Mr. S. K. Maitra,

Special Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Mr. H.P. Sedai, Advocate
(Legal Aid Counsel)

Date of Argument : 18-01-2020, 01-02-2020
Date of Judgment : 11-02-2020.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case as is discerned from record is briefly

stated as follows :

“On 01-11-2017, at around 2.30 p.m. accused Dhiren Tanti @ Biken
Tanti in the pretext of looking for fire wood had taken the informant’s
11 years old daughter victim’X’ (herein after called as ‘the deceased’)
to the midst of No. 3 block of Malijan tea garden and committing her
rape tortured her physically and pressing neck, inflicted blow over her
head, as a result of which she died. After the incident, the accused

dragged the dead body to a drain of the garden.

 
Page 2 of 28

2. The investigation commenced vide GD Entry No. 11 dated
01-11-2017 entered on receipt of a verbal information that one minor
girl has been murdered and the dead body was concealed under the
ground. On receiving the information he went to the place of
occurrence, arrested the accused and did the videography on being
lead by the accused where he dumped the dead body. Thereafter, on
lodging the formal FIR (Ext.2) on 02-11-2017 by the victim's uncle
(PW 3), the In-charge of the Salonibari Police Out Post entered the
G.D. Entry No. 29 dated 02-11-2017 and forwarded the FIR to the
Officer-in-Charge of Tezpur Police Station for registering a case.
Accordingly, Tezpur P.S. Case No. 2253/17 u/s 302/201 of the IPC
read section 4 of POCSO Act was registered and endorsed SI Aminul
Islam (PW 8) to investigate the case who had already initiated the
investigation. In course of investigation, the Investigating Officer (PW
8) visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the
witnesses and on completion of investigation having found materials,
laid charge sheet against the accused Dhiren Tanti u/s 302/201 of the
IPC.

3. On producing of the accused person before this Court, after
furnishing the copies of the documents as required u/s 207 of Cr.P.C.
and having heard both parties, my learned predecessor, framed
charge against the accused Dhiren Tanti @ Biken Tanti under section
302/201 of the IPC and 8 of POCSO Act. Particulars of the charge on
being read over and explained to the accused person, he pleaded not

guilty and claimed for trial.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as 11
(eleven) witnesses. On closure of the prosecution evidence,
statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein he
denied that he had committed the offences, which he was alleged to

have been committed and did not come forward to adduce evidence.

 
Page 3 of 28

5. Ihave heard the argument of the learned counsel of both sides

and also have gone through the materials on record.

6. The points for determination is that -

(1) Whether the accused Dhiren Tanti @ Biken Tanti
on 01-11-2017, after 2.30 p.m. at Malijan No. 3

block under Tezpur PS, committed murder by

causing the death of the minor girl "X” aged

about 11 years and thereby committed an
offence punishable U/s 302 of the Indian Penal

Code ?

(2) Whether the accused Dhiren Tanti @ Biken Tanti

on the same date, time and place, knowing or

having reason to believe that offence of murder of

"X” punishable with death or imprisonment for life

has been committed by him, did cause the dead

body of "X” to disappear with the intention of

screening himself from legal punishment and

thereby committed an offence punishable U/s 201

of the Indian Penal Code ?

(3) Whether the accused on the same date, time and

place, committed sexual assault on "X”, aged about 11

years and thereby committed an offence punishable

under section 8 of POCSO Act?

Discussins, Decisions and reason thereof.

7. In the present case, there is no eye witness to the occurrence

and the entire prosecution story merely based on circumstances. The

learned Special Public Prosecutor Mr. Maitra vehemently argued that

the evidence on record has sufficiently established the chain of

circumstances which is completely succeeded in proving the guilt of

 
Page 4 of 28

the accused. On the other hand, Mr. Sedai the learned defence
counsel has argued that prosecution miserably failed to prove the
“last seen together” theory, rather the materials on record merely
creates suspicion and did not lead to prove the guilt of the accused

beyond all reasonable doubt.

8. In order to appreciate the rival submissions advanced by the
learned counsel of the parties, having regard to the evidence on
record, I would like to scrutinize the evidence on record for the

purpose of adjudicating the charge against the accused.

9. PW 1 Pinki Karmakar in her evidence stated that on the day of
incident at around 2.30 p.m. while she was plucking tea leaves in the
garden, she saw the accused dragging the victim inside the garden in
block NO.3 of Malijan TE under Sonabeel Division and in the evening
time finding the deceased’s mother searching for her daughter, she
told the deceased’s mother that she saw the accused taking the
deceased forcibly inside the garden. Hearing this, her mother along
with Castanti Surin and Anil Ghatowar proceeded to the garden in
search of her daughter. During search, they found one ‘chappal’ of
her daughter and a lathi used for collecting fire wood and then
noticing the legs found the dead body of the deceased. The body was
covered with Soil and only the legs were coming out. Seeing the
dead body, on raising alarm local people gathered there. She gave
statement before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. wherein she put her

thumb impression.

During cross she stated that the deceased was the grand
daughter of the daughter of her brother. Her house is situated infront
of the house of the deceased. On the day of the incident, she went to
the garden for plucking tea leaves at around 2.30 p.m. At that time
about 100 labourers were working in the block of the tea garden,
amongst whom Dasen Nayak, Philsita Nayak are still alive. She stated
that when the accused took the victim, she was wearing one yellow

colour pant and one white colour sporting and on the next day of

 
Page 5 of 28

occurrence the dead body was recovered. She denied the suggestion
that as per dictation of Sankar, she gave statement before the
Magistrate. She further stated that the accused came to her house at
around 3 p.m. while she was at home, thereafter the accused went
to Kherbari to sell her saucepan (deksi) and stayed there. She
asserted that though she had not seen the actual incident but she
had seen the accused forcefully taking the victim inside the garden
and hence, she thought it is only the accused who killed the
deceased. She admitted that she had not reported others the fact of

dragging the victim by the accused inside the garden.

10. PW 2 Dr. Mridurupam Gogoi, the Sr. Medical Officer, performed
the autopsy on the dead body of the deceased, 11 years, female on
02-11-2017 and found three lacerated injuries over left cheek, two at
the label of left eye size 2 cm x 2 cm x 3 cm and one below it size 3
cm x 2 cm x 2 cm, left eye ball absent. Neck was tied with a cloth
with knot at the left side, and there was one abrasion mark on right
breast size 1 cm x 1 cm x 1 cm. The abdominal cavity was full of
blood. The medical officer opined that death is due to haemorrhagic
shock due to abdominal blunt trauma. He proved the post mortem
report as Ext.1. In cross-examination he admitted that the time since
death and presence of rigor-mortis was not mentioned in the post

mortem report.

11. Informant Sankar Ghatowar, the uncle of the deceased
deposing as PW3, stated that on 01-11-2017, at around 2 p.m., his
niece the victim along with accused Dhiren Tanti went to collect
firewood and at around 7 p.m. he heard that the victim did not return
from bagan. He stated that the mother of the victim along with other
villagers searched for her and following the mark of dragging of
someone, noticed one toe coming out from the earth of the drain of
the garden and then found the dead body of the victim in the drain
covered with earth. At that time the accused was also present with

other persons who searched the victim but, as soon as the dead body

 
Page 6 of 28

was found, he fled away and on the very day the accused was caught
by the villagers of other village. On being informed about the
incident, police came and took the accused to the police station. On
the night, the dead body was guarded by the villagers and on the
next day, he lodged the FIR Ext. 2. On the next day in presence of
police, the villagers brought out the dead body of the deceased. He
saw injury over the head of the deceased and the neck of the
deceased was tied with a “gamosa”. He proved the inquest report as
Ext. 3 and his signature as Ext.3(1).

During cross he stated that except recovery of the dead body
he knew nothing about the incident. He had not seen at what time
and how the deceased reached Bagan. He further stated that on the
day of incident many persons worked in the garden from 7 a.m. to 12
p.m. and after break of two hours, they again worked from 2 p.m. to
4 p.m. He denied the suggestion that as the accused is a permanent
labour, hence out of jealous he threatened him that one day he
would put him into jail. He stated that as the accused fled away,
hence, he suspected that the accused committed murder of the

deceased.

12. PW 4 the mother of the deceased, stated that on the day of
incident, in the evening after returning home, not seeing the
deceased when she enquired her husband about the deceased, he
replied that she went to Bagan with Dhiren Tanti to collect firewood.
As till then, she did not return, hence, she along with neighbours
searched for her daughter and called her by name. During search
they found one chappal of her daughter and then seeing mark of
dragging towards drain, followed the marks and noticing one toe,
found the dead body of the victim in the drain covered with soil.
Seeing the dead body when she raised alarm, the accused fled away.
Next day morning police along with the villagers digging the earth
brought out the dead body from the drain. She saw cut mark over

cheek near the eye and both the eye balls were came out and the
Page 7 of 28

neck of the deceased was tied with a ‘gamosa’. She heard that the
deceased was raped and thereafter she was killed. She also gave her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

During cross, she stated that on the day of incident she went
out from home at 7 a.m. and returned home at 4 p.m. On that day
she along with 400/500 people worked in the Line No. 4 and the
dead body of the victim was recovered from line No. 3. The distance

between Line No. 3 and 4 is about 10 k.m.

13. PW 5 Smti Dasen Nayak deposed that on the day of incident at
around 3.30 p.m. when she went to bring cattle, she had seen the
accused Dhiren Tanti and the deceased in line No. 3 and in the
evening she came to know that accused Dhiren Tanti committed rape
on the deceased and thereafter committing murder buried the dead

body in a drain of the bagan.

During cross she stated that when she went to Bagan to bring
cattle except Dhiren and the deceased none was present. At a few
distance the labourers were plucking tea leaves. She saw the accused
and the deceased from a distance of 10/15 meter away. She also saw
a lathi in the hand of the accused. She admitted that before
Magistrate she stated that as she had seen the accused along with
the victim hence, they all suspected that the accused killed her. She
denied that as tutored by Sankar, she made statement before the

Magistrate and before the court.

14. PW 6 Sri Kundan Karmakar testified that on the day of incident
at around 2 p.m. when he was playing carom, he saw Dhiren Tanti
along with the deceased proceeding towards garden and in the
evening came to know that the victim did not return. Later on he
heard that the deceased along with the accused went to the garden
for collecting fire wood. On the very day, in the evening the dead

body of the deceased was recovered in a drain of the Bagan. He saw

 
Page 8 of 28

the dead body which was covered with earth. He also noticed injury

over the head of the deceased.

During cross he stated that he played carom with Bow, Debru
and Badal under a Peepal tree. The bagan is about 11% - 2 km away
from the place where they played carom. The accused was ahead of
the deceased while proceeding towards the bagan. The accused was
holding a 15 ft long lathi (Dang) and the deceased was wearing a
yellow colour half pant. He cannot say where the deceased and the

accused had gone. He also did not know who informed police.

15. PW 7 Sankar Chandra Rava, the Scientific Officer, Serology
Division, Directorate of Forensic Science, Assam, Guwahati,
Kahilipara, deposed that on 17-03-2018 he received a parcel with
branded cover which consists of two numbers of vaginal smear glass
slide containing stains of suspected semen and on examination found
negative test for spermatozoa (semen). He proved the report as
Ext.4.

16. PW 8 SI Aminul Islam, the then In-charge of Salonibari Police
Out Post, deposed that on 01-11-2017 on receipt of an information
over phone from the Welfare Officer of Malijan TE that one minor
girl has been murdered and the body was concealed under the
ground, he made the Salonibari Police Out Post GDE No. 11 (Ext.7)
and along with ASI Nijay Kr. Domai and staff proceeded to the place
of occurrence. When he reached the place of occurrence, many
persons gathered there. He got the information there that the
accused Dhiren Tanti is taking shelter in the nearby village namely
Kherbari. Then he deputed some staffs and some responsible persons
in the area asking them not to change the position of the dead body
till arrival of Magistrate. He arrested the accused Dhiren Tanti. On
next day morning at around 7 a.m. he along with Circle Officer and
the accused went to the place of occurrence where the Circle Officer
conducted inquest over the dead body. He further stated that before

conducting inquest, accused Dhiren Tanti took them to the place

 
Page 9 of 28

where the body was dumped. He further stated that the accused led
them to the place where the body was dumped and videography was
done of the same. Thereafter the dead body was sent to KCH, Tezpur
for post mortem examination. He prepared the sketch map of the
place of the occurrence vide Ext. 5. Thereafter, on receipt of an FIR
from Sankar Ghatowar (PW3), he forwarded the same to the O/C
Tezpur Police station. He recorded the statement of the witness
including informant and got recorded the statement of witnesses
Pinky Karmakar (PW1), Dipmala Topno (PW4), Dasen Nayak (PW5)
and Kundan Karmakar (PW6) u/s 164 Cr.P.C. He also sent the vaginal

swab of the victim to FSL for examination.

During cross-examination, he stated that the Video graphy was
done by police personnel Krishna, by his digital camera but the said
camera, was not produced. He also did not record the statement of
Krishna who later on handed over the CD of the video graphy. He
also cannot say where the CD was processed. He had not submitted
any certificate from the Expert who prepared the CD from computer.
He also did not cite the said Expert as witness and did not produce
the computer where the CD was processed. He also did not seize the
said CD. But two CD are avoidable in the case diary without any mark
or date or case number. Though the CD is in a cover, but in the cover
there is no case number or date. In the charge sheet also he did not
mention about the CD. He admitted that he did not record the
statement of the accused regarding leading to the fact of discovery of
dead body. He further stated that in Ext. 7 the GDE No. 11, he did
not mention the phone Number by which he was informed about the
incident. He did not record the statement of Mr. Duwarah who
informed him first about the incident. He further stated that after
visiting the place of occurrence, knowing that the accused is taking
shelter in a nearby village Kherbari, he went there and apprehended
the accused. He further stated that he brought the accused to the
police station at 10 p.m. of 01-11-2017 and forwarded him to the
court on 03-11-2017 at 3 p.m. He further stated that on the basis of
Page 10 of 28

Salonibari OP GDE NO. 11 dated 01-11-2017 the post mortem was
conducted but in the sketch map, the GDE number was not
mentioned. There was no residential house within half km from the
place of occurrence. He further stated that he closed the case diary
on 03-11-2017 and again opened on 06-11-2017 and till 06-11-2017
he did not examine any other witness except the informant. He
admitted that the statement of witnesses Pinky Karmakar, Deceased’s
mother, Dasen Nayak and Kundan Karmakar are not of his hand
writing and their statements were recorded by Constable Moonmee
Saikia as dictated by him. In the diary there is no mention about
leading to discovery of the dead body. He also admitted that the case

diary does not contain the page number.

17. PW 9 Dr. S.K. Borah, the Circle Officer of Chariduar Revenue
Circle, deposed that on 02-11-2017 at around 7.50 a.m., in reference
to Salonibari Out Post GDE No. 11 dated 02-11-2017, he conducted
inquest upon the dead body of the deceased after disinter, as shown
by Sankar Ghatowar and found head injury with blood mark and
injury on the left eye. He also found wooden lathi near the dead
body, the neck was tied with gamosa and a knot on the left side of

the neck. He proved the inquest report as Ext.3.

18. PW 10 Miss Juhi Gogoi, the then Judicial Magistrate, 1° class,
Tezpur recorded the statement of the witnesses, Pinki Karmakar,
Dasen Nayak, Dipmala Topno and Kundan Karmakar u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
vide Ext. 8 to Ext. 11 respectively who made their statements

voluntarily.

19. PW 11, SI Labanya Bejbaruah, another Investigating Officer of
this case, deposed that on transfer of earlier I.O., he collecting the
FSL report, finding sufficient materials against the accused Dhiren
Tanti submitted the charge sheet u/s 302/201 of the IPC. He proved
the charge sheet as Ext. 6.

 
Page 11 of 28

20. Prosecution case is that accused Dhiren Tanti Das committed
murder of the deceased girl aged about 11 years and buried the body
in the tea garden. Nobody witnessed the occurrence and the case
rests on circumstantial evidence. It is well settled by a catena of
decisions of the Hon’ble Apex Court that where a case rests squarely
on circumstantial evidence, the inference of guilt can be justified only
when all the incriminating facts and circumstances are found to be
incompatible with the innocence of the accused or the guilt of any
other person. The circumstances from which an inference as to the
guilt of the accused is drawn have to be proved beyond reasonable
doubt and have to be shown to be closely connected with the

principal fact sought to be inferred from these circumstances.

21. In the case of Bhagat Ram v. State of Punjab, AIR 1954 SC
621, it has been laid down that, where the case depends upon the
conclusion drawn from circumstances, the cumulative effect of the
circumstances must be such as to negate the innocence of the
accused and bring home the offences beyond any reasonable doubt.
The Apex Court in the case of State of UP. v. Satish referred to the
following observation made by the Supreme Court in the case of C.
Chenga Reddy v. State of A.P., 1996 (10) SCC193:-

“21. In a case based on circumstantial evidence, the settled
law is the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is
drawn should be fully proved and such circumstances must
be conclusive in nature. Moreover, all the circumstances
should be complete and there should be no gap left in the
chain of evidence. Further, the proved circumstances must
be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the

accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence.”

22. The Apex Court in the case of Padala Veera Reddy v. State of
A.P. 1989 Supp (2) SCC 706, laid down that when a case rests upon
circumstantial evidence, such evidence must satisfy the following
tests:- (SCC pp. 710-11, para 10)
Page 12 of 28

“10. (1) the circumstances from which an inference of guilt
is sought to be drawn, must be cogently and firmly

established;

(2) those circumstances should be of a definite
tendency unerringly pointing towards guilt of the
accused;

(3) the circumstances, taken cumulative, should form a
chain so complete that there is no escape from the
conclusion that within all human probability the
crime was committed by the accused and none
else; and

(4) the circumstantial evidence in order to sustain conviction
must be complete and incapable of explanation of any
other hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused and
such evidence should not only be consistent with the guilt
of the accused but should be inconsistent with his

innocence.”

23. In the case of Hanumant Govind Nargundkar vs. State of M.P.
AIR, 1952 SC 343 it was observed, thus:-

“It is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of
a circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the
conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should in the first instance
be fully established, and all the facts so established should be
consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.
Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and
tendency and they should be such as to exclude every nature
and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every
hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved. In other words,
there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to

leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with

 
Page 13 of 28

the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show
that within all human probability the act must have been done

by the accused.”

24. In the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of
Maharashtra, AIR 1984 SC 1622, while dealing with the
circumstantial evidence, the Supreme Court laid down that the
following conditions precedent must be fully established before
convictions could be based on circumstantial evidence. The

conditions are:-

(1) the circumstance from which the conclusion of guilt is to
be drawn should be fully established. The circumstances
concerned must or should and not may be established.

(2) the facts so established should be consistent with the
hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they
should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except
that the accused is guilty;

(3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and
tendency;

(4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the

one to be proved; and

(5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to
leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent
with the innocence of the accused and must show that in
all human probability the act must have been done by the

accused.
25. In the instant case the prosecution in order to prove his case mainly
relied on the following circumstances:

i) The cause of death of the deceased is haemorrhage shock

due to abdominal blunt trauma.

 
Page 14 of 28

ii) On the day of incident at 2.30-3.00 pm, the accused
Dhiren Tanti was seen together with the victim inside the garden and
in the evening time the dead body of the victim was recovered in the

drain of the garden.

iii) PW5 Dasen Nayak and PW 6 Kundan Karmakar saw the
accused along with the victim proceeding towards garden since when
the deceased not returned and at that time the accused was holding a
lathi in his hand.

iv) A lathi was found lying near the dead body.

v) The accused was present when the villagers were
searching the victim but as soon as the dead body was found, he fled
away and thereafter, the accused was caught by the villagers from

other village.

vi) Accused Dhiren Tanti had shown the place of
occurrence where the dead body was dumped.

26. The post-mortem report vide Ext. 1, disclosed that the deceased
sustained three lacerated injury over left chick, two at the level of left eye
size 2 cm x 2 cm x 3 cm and one below it size 3cm x 2cm x 2cm, left eye
ball was absent and neck was tied by a cloth with a knot at the left side.
The deceased also sustained one abrasion mark on right breast size 1cm x
1 cm x 1 cm and the abdominal cavity was full of blood, however no
injury was found over genital area. The medical officer opined that death
occurred due to injuries of abdomen. Cause of death is not challenged by
defence. In statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. accused pleaded innocence
regarding sustaining injury by the deceased. From the evidence of the
medical officer, it appears that the injuries sustained by the deceased were

homicidal in nature.

27. In this case the circumstantial evidence that the deceased being last
seen with the accused is relevant. Last seen together is one of the

circumstances to link the accused with the offence and to prove his guilty.
Page 15 of 28

28. So far as the last seen aspect is concerned, the Apex Court in the
case of State of U.P. v. Satish [2005 (3) SCC 144] observed as follows:

“The last seen theory comes into play where the time-gap between
the point of time, when the accused and the deceased were last seen last
alive and when the deceased is found dead, is so small that possibility of
any person other than the accused being the author of the crime becomes
impossible. It would be difficult in some cases to positively establish that
the deceased was last seen with the accused, when there is a long gap
and possibility of other persons coming in between exists. In the absence
of any other positive evidence to conclude that the accused and the
deceased were last seen together, it would be hazardous to come to a
conclusion of guilt in those cases. In this case there is positive evidence
that the deceased and the accused were seen together by witnesses PWs
4 and 5.”

29. Inthe case of Ramreddy Rajeshkhanna Reddy v. State of A.P. [2006
(10) SCC 172] the Hon’ble Supreme Court held that: “The last seen theory,
furthermore, comes into play where the time gap between the point of
time when the accused and the deceased were last seen alive and the
deceased is found dead is so small that possibility of any person other
than the accused being the author of the crime becomes impossible. Even

in such a case the courts should look for some corroboration.”

30. In this respect Mr. Maitra the learned Special Public Prosecutor
placed the case of Sahadevan alias Sagadevan vs State, (2003) 1 SCC 534,
wherein the Apex Court has held that in a case of last-seen-together, it is
obligatory on the part of the appellant to explain as to when and where he

parted the company of the deceased.

Mr. Maitra also placed the ruling reported in AIR 2002 SC 3164
(Bodh Raj @ Bodha and Ors vs. State of Jammu and Kashmir).

31. In this case, PW 1 Pinki Karmakar testified that on the day of
incident at around 2.30 pm while she was plucking tea leaves in the

garden, saw the accused Dhiren Tanti dragging the victim within the block

 
Page 16 of 28

No. 3 of Maligan Tea Estate under Sonabheel division and in the evening
time she finding the mother of the victim searching for her daughter,
reported her that she saw the accused dragging the victim forcefully inside
the garden. Hearing this, the mother of the victim along with Castanti
Surin, Anil Ghatowar and some other boys went within garden to enquire
about her daughter. During search they found one choppol and a lathi
used for collecting fire wood and then noticing a portion of leg coming out
from earth, found the body of the deceased covered with soil. Seeing the
same they raised alarm and on next day police brought out the dead body.
Same statement she made u/s 164 Cr.P.C (Ext.8) that she saw the
deceased with the accused at about 3.30 PM proceeding to No.3 Tea
Garden. During cross this witness asserted that though she had not seen
the actual incident but she had seen the accused forcefully taking the
victim inside the garden. Learned Defence counsel argued that in cross
examination PW1 stated that she asked the accused Dhiren Tanti to sell
her “Saucepan (Deksi)” for which accused came to her house at 3 pm
when she was present at home and thereafter the accused went to
Kherbari to sell her “Saucepan” and stayed there and as such the
prosecution story that she had seen the accused taking the victim inside
the garden is not believable one. On careful scrutiny of the deposition and
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. of PW1, it reveals that in statement
under Section 164 Cr.P.C. recorded after five days of the incident, she
stated that she had seen the accused with the deceased at 3.30 PM and in
deposition, she stated that she saw them at 2.30 PM. Being an illiterate
lady, she might not have known the exact time but, her evidence that she
saw the deceased with the accused in the garden in the afternoon
between 2.30 to 3.30 PM remain un-demolished and for this minor
variation regarding time, she cannot be disbelieved. PW 5 Dasen Nayak
also stated that when she went to bring cattle at 3.30 PM, from 10/15
meter away she had seen the accused Dhiren Tanti and deceased together
in line no. 3 and at that time the accused was holding a lathi. Another vital
witness PW 6 Kundan Karmakar also stated that on the day of incident at

around 2.00 pm when he was playing carom, he saw the accused Dhiren

 
Page 17 of 28

Tanti along with the deceased proceeding towards the garden and in the
evening came to know that the deceased did not return from garden and
thereafter, her dead body was recovered from the drain of the tea garden.
During cross it was brought on record that when the accused and the
deceased were proceeding towards garden, the accused was holding a 15
ft. long lathi. PW5 and PW6 also made the same statement in their
deposition as well as in statement recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C.
(Ext. 9 and Ext. 11).

32. PW3 and PW4 the uncle and mother of the deceased respectively
categorically stated that on the day of incident the victim along with the
accused went to garden to collect fire wood. Though the defence during
cross examination of the PWs took the plea that on the day of incident the
accused went to the house of one Asmat Ali for selling “Saucepan” of PW1
Pinki Karmakar and when Asmat asked him to bring the “Saucepan”, the
accused again went to the house of Pinki Karmakar and on his return with
the Saucepan, he was caught by public out of suspicion but during cross,
PW1 Pinki Karmakar, did not state that the accused again returned to her
home to take the “Saucepan”. She only stated that at 3.00 PM, accused
came to her house and then she sent him to Kherbari to sell Saucepan.
Through this plea the defence tried to place that at 3.00 PM, he was in
Kherbari not in the Tea Estate, but, the evidence of PW1,PW5 & PW6
regarding witnessing the accused with the deceased going inside the

garden remain unshaken.

33. PW 3 and PW4 also stated that when they searched for the girl, they
saw mark of dragging of someone and following the mark they noticed
one toe coming out from the soil of the drain and thereafter found the
dead body. All other PWs also categorically stated that the dead body was
covered with soil and noticing one toe coming out, they found the dead
body.

34. The evidence of deceased’s mother PW4 unveiled that not finding
the victim at home till 4.00 PM, when victim’s mother inquired her

husband, he told her that their daughter went with the accused to garden

 
Page 18 of 28

to collect fire wood. This evidence indicates that the victim’s father knew
that she went with the accused to the garden to collect fire wood. The
evidence discussed above also disclose that on the day of incident PW1,
PW5 & PW6 saw the accused with the deceased victim going inside the
garden and when she did not return till 4.00 PM, they searched for her
and from mark of dragging and the toe, recovered the dead body in the
drain of the garden. The learned defence counsel drew attention of this
Court that according to PW1, she along with about 100 labourers were
working in the tea garden at around 2.30 pm and if actually the accused
dragged the victim inside the garden, it would be noticed by the said
labourers also and as such the evidence of PW1 who claimed that she saw
both of them is not believable one. On careful scrutiny it reveals that in
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. (Ext 8), PW1 stated that at about 3.30 pm, she
saw the accused with the deceased when she was plucking tea leaves, she
did not state the fact of dragging. In my considered opinion when the
labourers were busy in plucking tea leaves, they all might not have given
attention to the persons who passed by the garden and only for this, the
evidence of PW1 that she had seen the accused and the deceased
together cannot be disbelieved. Learned defence counsel also drew my
attention that according to PW1, on that day at 2.30 pm, about 100
labourer including PW5 Dasen Nayak were working in the tea garden
whereas PW5 stated that when she went to bring cattle, had seen the
accused with the victim. On careful perusal of the deposition of PW5 it
reveals that she went to bring cattle at 3.30 PM. Therefore, after working
in the garden, possibility of proceeding to bring cattle cannot be ruled out.
The learned defence counsel also argued that not disclosing the material
fact by PW1, PW5 and PW6 regarding witnessing the accused with the
deceased together till recording statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and
164 Cr.P.C., their evidence are not believable. In my view, seeing the
deceased with the accused the residents of same tea garden, they might
not have thought that he is going to commit some offence with the girl for

what they perhaps informed none but after recovery of the dead body,

 
Page 19 of 28

they believed that it is the accused who committed the crime and gave

statement accordingly.

35. The theory of last seen together is one where two persons are seen
together alive and after a interval of time one of them is found alive and
other dead. If the period between the two is short, presumption has to be
the person alive being the author of the crime. Time gap should be such
as to rule out possibility of somebody else committing that crime. It is true
that circumstance of last seen together does not necessarily lead to the
inference that it was the accused who committed the crime, there must be
more establishing connectivity between the accused and the victim. In the
instant case at around 2/2.30 pm, deceased was seen with the accused
and in the evening time not finding her when her family members with
others searched for her, the dead body was recovered. Though there is a
gap since she was seen with the accused till the body was recovered but
the alleged incident was in a tea garden where labourers were working in
the garden till 4/5 pm. Had the deceased came out from the garden, she
would be noticed by someone but since she was taken inside the garden
nobody noticed her and thereafter body was recovered. Accused also
failed to explain during this long period where he was. Furthermore, since
the accused was last seen with the deceased till recovery of dead body of
victim, the victim was not seen with any other person and such facts

makes the last seen theory stronger and reliable against the accused.

36. The learned defence counsel further argued that Pinky
Karmakar(PW1) though deposed that she saw the accused dragging the
victim inside the tea garden, which an improved version not stated before
the IO and the evidence of PW5 & PW6 though claimed that they saw the
deceased with the accused which was not stated before the IO, as such
their evidence are not believable, but, in my opinion, when they saw the
victim with the accused they might not have think that the accused took
her with intend to commit an offence. In the case of Gautam Sahu @ Ajit
Sahu Vs State of Assam, 2006(2) GLT 196 placed by defence, the
deceased was seen with accused on 28-09-2018 at 3.00 PM and the body

 
Page 20 of 28

was recovered on 30-09-2018 at 12 noon and the Hon’ble High Court held
that for this long gap it cannot be held that none other than the accused
committed murder of the deceased. But, in the present case, the deceased
was seen with accused at 2.30-3.00 PM and the body was found in the
evening on the very day. There is also no evidence that someone saw the
accused coming out from the garden or some others entry in the garden
during the period. Absence of any other person in the place of occurrence
appears to be one of circumstances to link the accused with the offence to
prove his guilt. It is not the case of the defence that anyone else other
than the accused was there at the relevant time. Though the accused took
the plea that at that time he was in village Kherbari but failed to

substantiate the plea by adducing evidence as discussed above.

37. The learned defence counsel argued that before filing the FIR, the
Welfare Officer, Malijan TE over telephone and the General Manager in
writing informed at Salonibari OP regarding the incident on the basis of
which GD Entry No.11 dated 01-11-2017 was entered but, both of them
who informed police first were not examined by the IO. Learned defence
Counsel also submitted that A.S. Gill the General Manager informed the I/C
Salonibari Out Post in writing that the line chowkidar reported him about
an incident of death and the father of the deceased knew that the deceased
with the accused went to the garden to collect firewood but the said
chowkidar and deceased's father were not examined by prosecution. The
learned Counsel argued that non-examining those witnesses are serious
lapses on the part of the prosecution. In this respect he relied on the
ruling reported in 2013(4) GLT 1017 Bircha Kurmi vs. State of Assam. In
the case of Bircha Kurmi, one Apurba Saikia informed first the village head
man that the accused was moving around with an axe in his hand and
already killed one person on which police came and initiated investigation
but, prosecution neither bring on record as to whether any General Diary
Entry had been made on the basis of the information nor examined Apurba
Saikia who informed the village headman first and the Hon’ble Apex
Court held that the FIR received later on during investigation cannot be

treated as First Information Report and remanded back the case to prove

 
Page 21 of 28

the General Diary Entry and to examine the person who first informed the
village headman. In the said case, the person who informed first had seen
the accused moving with an axe and knew well that the accused murdered
one person, whereas in the present case the Welfare Officer of Maligaon
TE and the Manager of Sonabil TE as soon as came to know about the
recovery of a dead body, informed police. There is no evidence on record
that they came to the place where the dead body was found. They are not
eye witnesses, and they might not have known who killed the deceased.
Moreover, in this case, receiving a phone call from the Welfare Officer
about burying a minor girl after committing murder, GD Entry No. 11
dated 01-11-2017 was made which was proved as Ext.7. Hence, in my

considered opinion the aforesaid ruling is not applicable in this case.

38. In this case one vital circumstance is that when the villagers
searched for the victim, the accused also accompanied them but as soon
as the body was recovered, accused fled away and on the very night he
was apprehended by the villagers from village Kherbari. PW 8 the IO
testified that when he reached the place of occurrence, he got the
information that the accused Dhiren Tanti had taken shelter at nearby
village Kherbari and accordingly he arrested accused Dhiren Tanti
therefrom. In a question put to the accused in this respect, the accused
replied that he did not accompany the villagers in searching the victim as
at that time he was at Kherbari. To prove this plea he examined none.
However, during cross of PW1, it was brought on record that at 3.00 PM,
the accused went to Kherbari to sell her Saucepan, but, in order to escape
from the offence, possibility of going to Kherbari after committing the
offence cannot be ruled out. All the PWs positively supported that at the
time when the body of the deceased was recovered, the accused fled
away and as such the plea of the accused that he was not present when
searching the girl is not sustainable. Though absconding of the accused
from the place of occurrence cannot by itself establish the guilt of the
accused but being parted from the searching party immediately after
recovery of the dead body is a vital piece of circumstantial evidence linking

him with the death of the deceased. Here the learned Special Public

 
Page 22 of 28

Prosecutor placed the case of Narendra Nama Das and Another vs. State
of Tripura reported in 2009 (1) GLR856.

39. The learned defence counsel relying the case of Sujit Biswas Vs
State of Assam reported in 2013 Cr LJ 3140 submitted that the evidence of
PW1 and PW3 to PWé6 disclosed that due to absconding of the accused,
they only suspect the accused as perpetrator of the crime, but failed to
establish that none other than the accused committed the crime. But, in
the present case, all the circumstances discussed above, if taken together
led to the only hypothesis of guilt of the accused in committing murder of
the little girl. The evidence of the witnesses are found to be cogent,
convincing and not contradictory and nothing could be elicited by the
defence in cross to discard their testimony. The entire consequence of
evidence on the deposition of the PWs are in unison about the killing the

deceased by the accused.

40. Further, the learned defence counsel also strenuously argued that
there is delay of 18 hours in lodging FIR without any explanation and the
allegation on rape has not been proved by the medical report and FSL
report which gives rise to serious doubt of the prosecution version. In that
respect, he relied the case of Pritam Nath and Ors Vs state of Punjab
decided by the Apex Court in Crl Appeal No.216/2002 reported in Supreme
Court on Acquittal in Criminal cases (1995-2015). In the case in hand, the
fact of missing of victim girl came to the knowledge of the victim’s mother
(PW4) at 4.00 PM on 01-11-2017 after she returned home from work and
the dead body was recovered in the evening time. As it was night, hence,
inquest was conducted on 02-11-2017 at 7.50 AM and thereafter the FIR
was lodged on the very day i.e. on 02.11.2017 at 3.00 PM. The episode of
finding the dead body of the little girl was shocking and traumatized the
simple villagers to take recourse the formal and legal procedure
immediately and in the above facts and circumstances of the case, I found
that this delay of about 18 hours is not fatal to the prosecution. In this
respect the Learned Special Public Prosecutor placed the ruling reported in
1991 AIR (SC) 63, 2011(5) GLR 626. Moreover, finding the dead body of

 
Page 23 of 28

the girl in that situation, the villagers might think that she was killed after
committing rape which is mentioned in the FIR, but, in evidence they did

not allege rape.

41. The learned defence counsel also argued that the statement of PW1,
PW4, PW5 and PW6 under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. were recorded after 5
days of the incident by constable Munmi Saikia as admitted by the IO and
as such those are not acceptable in the eye of law. In that respect,
defence counsel referred the ruling reported in 2016(3)SCC(CRI)211, but,
in my considered opinion when the accusations of prosecution otherwise
established, only for recording statement of the witnesses after 5 days,
can't be the basis of throwing away the whole case. Moreover, admittedly,
the IO during cross-examination admitted that Munmi Saikia reduced the
statement of those witnesses as dictated by him. So, it is not the case
where a constable below the rank of S.I. recorded the statement of
witness u/s- 161 Cr.P.C. rather it firmly established that statements were
recorded as per the dictation of I.0. Learned defence counsel further
submitted that PW1 and PW3 to PW6 improved their version which were
not disclosed before the IO in statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and as
such their evidence cannot be believed. In that respect he relied the ruling
reported in 2011 Cr.L.J. 817 but in the instant case the evidence of PWs
regarding witnessing the accused with the deceased in the garden appears
to be coherent, supportive and corroborative and the version of witnesses
pertaining to the fact of victim last seen with the accused, recovery of
victim’s dead body under soil of drain with injuries and fleeing the accused
witnessing the recovery of victim’s dead body, remain unshaken and
defence side failed to dismantle their versions by way of bringing out any

sort of material contradictions.

42. Learned defence Counsel relying the case of Sujay Sen @ Sujoy Kr
Sen vs. State of West Bengal reported in Supreme Court on acquittal in
Criminal cases (1995-2015) submitted that in the FIR, the informant did
not mention his source of knowledge regarding allegation of rape on the

minor victim and her murder and the present case based only on

 
Page 24 of 28

circumstantial evidence and as the prosecution fails to prove the chain of
circumstances, the accused is entitled to benefit of doubt. He further
submitted that the informant had not seen the deceased going with the
accused for collecting fire wood and only out of jealousy the FIR was
lodged. But, in the FIR (Ext. 2), nowhere the informant mentioned that he
saw the incident. After recovery of the dead body and knowing that the
deceased was last seen together with the accused, the FIR was lodged
implicating the accused. It is also not believable that for some jealousness,
one can implicate an innocent with such a heinous crime such as murder.
The defence side failed to bring out anything to prove jealousness or any
previous grudge for implicating the accused with false case. The informant
himself appears to be a reported witness and he lodged ejahar after
recovery of the dead body of the deceased and considering the condition
of dead body he might have suspicion of rape. Hence, non-proving of
charge of rape does not make the case of the prosecution weaken and
doubtful.

43. Learned defence counsel also argued that PW1, PW3 and PW4 are
related witness and having material contradiction in their evidence they
cannot be relied upon in absence of corroboration from independent
witness. Here he cited the ruling reported in 2009(4) GLT 187. But, in the
present case, PW 5 & PW 6 are not related witness. Both the witnesses
corroborated to reaffirm that they saw the accused and the deceased
together in Line No.3 as discussed above and later on the body was
recovered, in the above evidence in my considered view the aforesaid

ruling is not applicable in the present case.

44. Itis further submitted by the learned defence counsel that regarding
recovery of the dead body by the accused, videography was done but, the
statement of the accused was not recorded regarding leading to discovery
of the said fact and not seizing the CD as well as without certificate as
required under Section 65(B)(4) of Evidence act, it is not admissible. In
this respect he relied the ruling reported in 2018(1) SCC(Crl) 792. In the

case, admittedly, CD was not seized and after recovery of the dead body

 
Page 25 of 28

the accused was taken to the place where he buried the body. The
evidence of the PWs disclosed that the accused was present at the time of
recovery of the dead body by the villagers. He knew the place where the
dead body was found. The cumulative effect of the evidence of the PWs
shows that there is cogent evidence that the accused was seen with the
deceased going inside the garden. There is no evidence on the side of the
defence to prove the plea of the accused that he did not take the

deceased to the garden.

45. In this case the prosecution story of alleged rape on the victim girl is
not supported by the PM report as no injury was found in her private part
and vaginal smear also gave negative test. But the PM report reflects that
she sustained lacerated injury over cheek, near eye and abrasion over
right breast and abdominal cavity was found full of blood. One eye ball
was also found absent and neck was tied with a cloth. The medical officer
Clarified that due to the injuries of abdomen, death was caused to the
deceased. She was so brutally assaulted that her eye ball was come out.
Though the allegation of rape is not supported by the medical report, but
the PM report reveals that due to abdominal injury she died. The deceased
is a girl of only 11 years. She was so assaulted on various parts of the

body including abdomen that she died instantly due to the injuries.

46. The Ld. defence counsel also argued that as the PM report does not
reflect the time since death of the deceased hence, it cannot be said that
after 2.30 pm she died and as such the accused could not be held guilty
even if he was seen with the victim. But the cogent evidence of the PWs
as discussed above and the plea of the accused which he could not prove,
clearly established that none other than the accused was present with the
deceased. The evidence of PWs as discussed above and the fact that the
accused failed to prove his plea of alibi at the place of occurrence leads to
only one conclusion that he alone was responsible for death of the

deceased.

47. Therefore, the circumstances which obtained from the mouth of the

prosecution witnesses coupled with the medical evidence as discussed

 
Page 26 of 28

above, I find no any ambiguity in the involvement of the accused in
committing the murder of the deceased. All the given circumstances
coupled with last seen together create a unbreakable chain showing

culpability of the accused.

48. In the present case the totality of the evidence and the circumstance
pressed on record undoubtedly finger towards the accused as author of
the crime and the injuries of abdomen sustained by the little girl indicates
that the accused intentionally caused the death of the deceased perhaps

not succeeding in going to do some illegal acts.

49. In the light of the discussions made above, it reveal that there are
series of incriminating evidence which are consistent with the guilt of the
accused and inconsistent with his innocence. The complete chain of
incriminating circumstance and last seen together the deceased with the
accused led to forming a reasonable link of certainty that the murder of
the deceased being committed by none but the accused and as such I am
of the considered view that charge u/s 302 IPC against the accused stands

proved. Accordingly he is convicted for offence punishable u/s 302 IPC.

50. In this case it is in the evidence of PWs that body of the deceased
girl was found covered with soil in a drain and only from a toe in the midst
of the soil, her body was found. This reveals that the body was buried for
causing of disappearance of evidence with intend to screening himself
from punishment and as such the accused Dhiren Tanti is also found guilty

punishable u/s 201 IPC and convicted accordingly.

51. However there is no evidence that the deceased was sexually
assaulted or raped. Though the PM report suggestive of presence of
abrasion over her breast but only from this it cannot be safely held that
with sexual intend she was caused injury. Therefore, he cannot be held
guilty for offence u/s 8 of POCSO Act. Accordingly he is acquitted from
charge of section 8 of POCSO Act.

52. The convict Dhiren Tanti is heard on quantum of sentence and

recorded his statement u/s 235(2) Cr.P.C. Accused/convict prayed for

 
Page 27 of 28

leniency. It is an unfortunate case of a minor child aged about 11 years
having met an untimely death. Considering the entire facts and
circumstances of the case and mode and manner of the crime, accused
Dhiren Tanti is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life with
fine of Rs. 10,000/- i/d to undergo rigorous imprisonment for further six
months for offence punishable u/s 302 IPC. Accused is also convicted u/s
201 IPC and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 5(five) years
with a fine of Rs. 5,000/- i/d to undergo further rigorous imprisonment for

another three months. Both the sentences will run concurrently.

53. Convict Dhiren Tanti is in hazot. Be sent him to Central jail Sonitpur,

Tezpur to serve of the sentence.

54. Case is recommended for compensation to the next of kin of the
deceased as per provision of Section 357 A of Cr.P.C. by District Legal

Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.
55. Let the free copy of the judgment be furnished to the convict.

56. Also send a copy of the Judgment to the District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur as per provision of section 365 Cr.P.C. and a copy to the

District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

57. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 11™ day of
February, 2020.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur

 
Prosecution witnesses.

1. PW1
2. PW2
3. PW3
4. PW4
5. PW5
6. PW6
7. PW7
8. PW8
9. PW9
10. PW10
11. PW11

Exhibits.

Ext. 1

Ext. 2

Ext. 3

Ext. 4

Ext. 5

Ext. 6

Ext. 7

Ext. 8

Ext. 9

Ext.10

Ext.11

Ext.12

Page 28 of 28

APPENDIX

: Pinky Karmakar,

: Dr Mridurupam Gogoi(MO),
: Sankar Ghatowar,

: Mother of the victim,

: Smti Dasen Nayak,

: Sri Kundan Karmakar,

: Sri Sankar Chandra Rava,
: SI Aminul Islam(IO),

: Dr SK Borah,

: Miss Juhi Gogoi(JMFC) &

: SI Labanya Bejbaruah(1O).

Post Mortem report,

FIR,
Inquest report.
FSL report,
Sketch map,
Charge sheet,

Certified copy of Salonibari OP GD Entry
No. 11 dated 01-11-2017,

Statement of PW1 U/S 164 CrPC,
Statement of PW5 U/S 164 CrPC,
Statement of PW4 U/S 164 CrPC,
Statement of PW6 U/S 164 CrPC,
Order of PW10 dated 06-11-2017.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

 
