 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 27/2018.
U/S - 366(A)/376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act

State
- Versus -
Alim Uddin Mia @ Monua Mia .......... Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance _ and particulars :-

For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.

For the accused person :- Sri K.M. Nurul Alom, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidence - 01.02.2019 & 07.03.2919.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC_ :- 11.03.2019.

Date of Argument = -11,03.2019.

Date of Judgment :- 11.03.2019.
JUDGMENT

.& The prosecution case, in brief, is that on

04.04.2015 the informant Badal Das lodged an ejahar with the O/c,
Algapur Police Station alleging that on 03.04.2015 at about 1 PM
the minor daughter of the informant i.e. the victim was going to the
house of her maternal uncle alongwith her younger sister namely
Suparna Rani Das and while they reached near the school namely
Success Academy at Chandail, the accused person Monua Mia

COREG. 3.254 Pi2.
 

Cc No. 27/2 .

a.”
alongwith 2/3 other unknown persons appeared there and forcefully

kidnapped the victim in a vehicle and then Suparna Rani Das, the
another daughter of the informant immediately came back to the
house and reported the incident. Thereafter, the informant made
vigorous search to find out the victim but could not find her out.

2 On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered
as Algapur Police Station Case No. 95/2015 under Sec. 366(A) of
the IPC and accordingly, police started investigation of the case.

2. During investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, drew up rough sketch map thereof, recorded
statements of witnesses including the informant, got the victim
medically examined and also got her statement recorded by the
Magistrate and after completion of investigation having been found
prima facie case laid the charge sheet against the accused person
Alim Uddin Mia @ Monua Mia under Sec. 366(A) of the IPC.

4. On appearance of accused person, copies of
relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished
to him.

oe After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.

Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record,
having found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused
person has committed the offence, the formal charges have been
framed against the accused person Alim Uddin Mia @ Monua Mia
under Sec. 366(A)/376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.
The charges so framed were read over and explained to the
accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried. Hence, the trial. Contd....... P/3.
 

<a

6. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined
2 Nos. of Pws including the victim and the informant o of the case.
Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence Counsel, the prosecution evidence was closed. The
accused person is examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has
denied the allegations levelled against him by the prosecution. The
defence did not adduce any evidence.

2 Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(1) Whether the accused person on 03.04.2015 at
about 1 PM at village Mohanpur Pt. V under Algapur PS kidnapped
the victim Shantana Rani Das, the minor daughter of the informant
to to with him or another person with intent that she may be or
knowing that she will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, as
alleged?

() Whether the accused person after kidnapping
the victim, committed rape on her, as alleged?

(ii) Whether the accused committed penetrative
sexual assault on the victim, as alleged ?

DISCUSSION, REASONS AND DECISION THEREOF :-

8. The PW. 1, the victim has deposed that she had
love affair with the accused and out of that, she eloped with the
accused on her own will and thereafter, she got married the
accused and has been living with him. Her father filed the case as

COntd......: P/4.
 

SF OO
ar 4h
Xe? or

ial (P 27/2018.
af
he was not agreed upon her marriage with the accused. It is further

deposed by the victim that police got her medically examined and
she also made statement before Magistrate vide Ext. 1, wherein Ext.
1(1) is her signature. At present, she is the mother of a child, out of
the wedlock with the accused and at the time of incident, she was
aged 18 years.

9. The PW. 2, Sri Badal Das, the informant, has
deposed that about 2 years back one day in the morning, his
daughter i.e. the victim went to school alongwith his another
daughter Suparna but after sometime, Suparna returned home and
reported that the accused kidnapped the victim and accordingly, he
lodged the FIR vide Ext. 2, wherein Exts. 2(1),2(2) and 2(3) are her
signatures. After 15/20 days, police recovered the victim and he
took zimma of the victim from the court but after 15 days of taking
zimma of the victim, the accused again kidnapped her and
thereafter, he did not file any case.

In cross examination, the informant has stated
that earlier, he deposed in this court in connection with the same
matter in Sessions Case No. 76/2017. It is further stated by the
witness that he can not say whether the victim on her own will
eloped with the accused or not.

10. In the instant case, the prime witness is the victim
and her evidence bears much significance to prove the alleged
commission of the offence by the accused. The victim in her
evidence has unequivocally divulged that at the relevant time, she
went with the accused on her own will, out of love affair and
thereafter, she married the accused and has been living with him as

COME, ..6si: P/5.
 

 

 

-5-

husband and wife and out of their wedlock, they have been blessed
with a child and at the relevant time of incident, she was 18 years
old. It has also been made clear by the victim that as her father was
not agreed upon her marriage with the accused, he lodged the case.
Though the informant i.e. the father of the victim has implicated the
accused person with the commission of the crime, alleged but it has
come out from his evidence that from the court, he took zimma of
the victim and took her to his house but subsequently, again the
accused took her and thereafter, the informant did not maintain any
relationship with the victim.

11. When the victim has not implicated the accused
person in her evidence with the commission of the alleged crime
and since the victim being major went with the accused at the
relevant time and is presently leading her conjugal life with the
accused happily as his wife having a child, | do not find it
appropriate to entangle the accused person with the guilt of
commission of the crime alleged.

Le. Accordingly, the accused person Alim Uddin
Mia @ Monua Mia_ is acquitted of the offence under Sec.
366(A)/376, IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. Set him
at liberty forthwith.

13. The bail bond of the accused person stands
discharged.

14, Send a copy of this judgment to the District
Magistrate, Hailakandi.

EH The Special (POCSO) case is disposed of
accordingly.

CONG 62 P/6.
 

ial (P 201
-6-
16. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open
Court under the seal of this Court and on my signature on this 11%

day of March, 2019.
v1.
WW A J:
he
Di 3 a HAILAK AND

 

Contd:...;. PT.
 

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, The Victim.

PW. 2, The informant Badal Das.

Documentary evidences :-

Ext. 1- Statement of the victim under Sec. 164, CrPC.
Ext. 2- FIR.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

 

HAILAKAND:|
