CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 68/16

Informant: Y",

Accused: (1) Sri Sukra Urang,
S/o- Sri Soneswar Urang.

(2) Sri Amritlal Urang,
S/o- Late Somra Kanda.

Both are residents of:

28 Line, Ouphlia Tea Estate,
PS- Tingkhong,

District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
For the Defence: Mr. S Dowarah, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 68/16
G.R. Case No. 2601/16

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Sukra Urang and another

Charges: Under Sections 448/354-A/354-B IPC, read with Section 8 POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 03-08-17 and 14-12-17.
Date of argument : 04-11-19.
Date of Judgment —__: 18-11-19.

1)

2)

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in a narrow compass is that on 11-09-16, at about 7:00
pm, Sri Sukra Urang and Sri Amritlal Urang (hereinafter the accused persons),
committed rape on the fifteen year old minor victim 'X' when she was alone
at home. An ejahar regarding this incident was lodged by the victim's father
'Y' and Bamunbari OP GD Entry No. 236 dtd. 12-09-16 was registered and the
FIR was forwarded to the Tingkhong Police Station and Tingkhong PS Case
No. 111/16 under Sections 448/354-A/34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC for
short), read with Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012 (POCSO Act for short) was registered and SI Learnis Pegu was
endorsed with the investigation.

The investigating officer (IO for short) embarked upon the investigation. He
recorded the statements of the victim and the witnesses. He went to the
place of occurrence and prepared the Sketch-Map and recorded the

statements of the witnesses. He forwarded the victim to the Magistrate who
3)

4)

)

recorded her statement under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
(CrPC for short). He also forwarded the victim for medical examination. On
finding sufficient materials against the accused, the IO submitted Charge-
Sheet against them under Sections 448/354-A/34 IPC, read with Section 4
POCSO Act. As Accused Sukra Urang could not be apprehended by the IO,
he was shown as absconder by the IO.
On appearance of the accused persons, copies were furnished and after
hearing both the sides, a formal charge under Sections 448/354-B IPC, read
with Section 8 POCSO Act was framed and explained to the accused Sri
Amritlal Urang and a formal charge under Sections 448/354-A IPC, read with
Section 8 POCSO Act was framed and explained to the accused Sri Sukra
Urang. Both the accused persons abjured their guilt and claimed to be tried.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of six
witnesses including the IO and exhibited various documents, whereas the
accused persons cross-examined the victim and the IO. The defence did not
cross-examine the other witnesses. On the inculpatory circumstances arising
against them, the tone and tenor of the answers of the accused persons
under Section 313(1)(b) CrPC depicts a plea of total denial.
Submissions:

The learned Public Prosecutor Smt. Runumi Devi laid stress through her
argument that the accused persons deserve punishment. On the contrary, the
learned defence counsel laid stress in his argument that this case is replete
with contradictions. The victim’s evidence does not inspire confidence.

Points for determination:
On the backdrop of the rival contentions, urged at bar, following points are

apposite for proper adjudication of this case.
i. Whether on 11-09-16, at about 7:00 pm, both the accused
persons committed house trespass by entering into the
house of the informant?

ii. Whether at the same time and place, both the accused
persons used criminal force upon the victim 'X'?

iii. Whether at the same time and place, both the accused
persons committed sexual assault on the victim 'X'?

Decisions thereon and the reasons for the decision:

6) The victim 'X' testified as PW-1 that the accused persons are her neighbours.
She used to address them as ‘Kokai’. The alleged incident took place about a
year ago. On that evening, at about 7:00 pm, she was alone at home. She
was helping her elder sister’s son with his studies at that time. At that time,
both the accused persons entered into their house and asked her who else
was present at home. As she was terrified of the accused persons, she lied
that her mother was inside the house. Then Amritlal Urang asked her for
chillies to have alchohol along with the challies. She offered chairs to the
accused persons and she went inside the kitchen to prepare dal. As she was
about to add salt in the dal, Amritlal Urang came and held her hand and
gagged her. He ripped off her sporting, but somehow, she managed to
escape by pushing him away. Immediately, she rushed towards her nephew
and Sukra Urang who was sitting nearby, held her by her hand. She tried to
run away from the place, but Sukra Urang held on to her. She somehow
managed to escape and she pushed away Sukra Urang and left her nephew
and fled. She went to her neighbour Shankar Urang’s house and informed his
wife about the incident. She stayed in Shankar Urang’s house for a while and

then her parents and her elder brother arrived and she informed them about
7)

8)

the incident. Her mother was enraged and brought the accused Amritlal
Urang and the public assaulted and so Amritlal Urang fled. Sukra was also
assaulted by the public. On the following morning, she went to the police
station along with her parents, aunt (khuri) and the members of the Mahila
Samiti. Her father lodged an ejahar with the police regarding the incident.
The police recorded her statement and forwarded her to the hospital for
medical examination on the next day. She was also forwarded to the
Magistrate who recorded her statement Ext. 1 wherein Ext. 1(1) upto Ext.
1(3) are her signatures. Her father expired about four months ago.

In her cross-examination, she testified that the accused visits their house and
there is a liquor shop near their house, and the accused persons bought
alcohol from the liquor shop and came to their house to borrow chilies to
have the same along with the alcohol. The accused persons called her father
from outside and then they entered into their house. The remaining part of
her cross-examination is not noteworthy.

The P.W.2 say-'Y' testified that the victim is her daughter who is around 15
years of age. The incident occurred about 4 / 5 months ago. On the day of
the incident, she went out of her house, for some work and to bring cattle
and such other work. Her husband went out to attend Puja near the house
and the victim 'X' was alone at home. When she returned home, she called
her daughter and her grandson came out of the house and informed her that
her daughter 'X' was not at home. She went to the neighbour's house where
her daughter 'X' went. She asked her daughter about the incident. Her
daughter was in tears and many people were also assembled there. 'X'
tearfully narrated the incident that Amit Orang and Sukra Orang came to their

house during their absence. On the same night, the Police also came to their
9)

house. The public assaulted Amit Orang and Sukra Orang and so Sukra Orang
was taken to the Garden Hospital. On the following day, she along with her
daughter went to Bamunbari Outpost, accompanied by her husband. The
Police recorded her statement.

Rajesh Orang testified as P.W.3 that the victim is a distant relative. The
alleged incident occurred on 11.09.16. At that time, he was a secretary of
ATTSA. On the night of the incident, the members of ATTSA called him over
phone and informed him about an incident of assault in Line No.28. He then
went to the place of occurrence and noticed a gathering. The VDP members
arrived and informed about the incident at Bamunbari Outpost. The accused
Sukra Orang was assaulted by the public and then they took Sukra to the
Garden Hospital for treatment. On the mid way, they met the Police while
taking Sukra to the Garden Hospital. The Police took them to the place of
occurrence. The victim's father lodged an ejahar regarding the incident. He
did not know why the victim's father lodged the ejahar against the accused.

The accused Sukra is related to him.

10) Prakash Kanda testified as P.W.4 that both the accused persons are known to

him. The victim is also known to him. The alleged incident occurred about a
year ago. The line boys informed him about trouble in Line No.28 and asked
him to inform about it to the Police. Accordingly, he informed the matter to
the Police and arrived at the spot. He heard that both the accused persons
went to the victim's house to borrow chilies to have it with alcohol and then
the public assaulted both the accused persons. The cross-examination of this

witness is also declined.

11) Motital Kanda testified as P.W.5 that the accused persons and the victim are

known to him. The victim is a distant relative. About 3 / 4 months ago, while
he was taking rest, he heard a commotion and he went out of his house and
noticed that the public were attacking the accused persons. The AATSA was
informed and the VDP members informed the matter to the Police. He took
the injured Sukra to the hospital on a 'thela' (push cart). Then, he met the
Police on the way and he asked the others to take Sukra to the hospital and
he accompanied the Police to the place of occurrence. Later, he heard from
the victim that the accused persons asked for chillies to have it with alcohol
and entered into their house.

12)S.I. Lernish Pegu testified as PW.6 that on 12.09.16, he was posted at
Bamunbari Outpost as In-charge. On the intervening night, he received
information over phone about a sexual assault, at about 12.15 a.m., mid
night and registered G.D Entry No. 227 dated 12.09.16. He immediately went
to the place of occurrence along with staff and he found 2 boys being tied
and held captive by the villagers who also assaulted the 2 boys. He recorded
the statements of the witnesses at the place of occurrence. He recorded the
statements of the victim. The accused persons were forwarded to the hospital
and one accused was in a serious condition and he was shifted to the AMCH
at Dibrugarh. After first aid, Amitlal Orang was released from Moran
dispensary and he took him into custody. Thereafter, the FIR was lodged on
the next day by the victim's father and a Bamunbari O.P G.D Entry No.236
dated 12.09.16 was registered and the FIR was forwarded to the Tingkhong
Police Station which was registered as Tingkhong P.S Case No. 111/16, under
Section 448/354(A)/34 IPC read with Section 8 of the POCSO Act and he was
entrusted with the investigation. Exhibit 2 is the FIR and Exhibit 2(1) is the
Signature of the O.C with endorsement. He arrested the accused and

forwarded him to jail. He prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence,
Exhibit 3 wherein Exhibit 3(1) is his signature. He forwarded the victim for
medical examination and also to the Court for recording her statement under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. The accused Sukra Orang was released from the AMCH
and he could not be traced out. Thereafter, he collected the Medico Legal
Report of the victim and after completion of the investigation, he laid charge-
sheet against the accused Amitlal Orang and absconding the accused Sukra
Orang, under Section 448/354 (A)/34 IPC read with Section 8 of the POCSO
Act. Exhibit 4 is the charge-sheet wherein Exhibit 4(1) is his signature.
Analysis of the Evidence:

13)It is clear from the victim's evidence that she was alone at home with her
nephew and the accused persons entered into her house and they queried
about anybody else's presence in their house. She was terrified and she lied
that her mother was inside the house. Then, Amitlal Orang asked for chilies
to have it with alcohol. When she went inside to prepare food, Amitlal came
inside and held her hand and gagged and ripped off her sporting. The
victim's mother P.W.2 is silent about such an overt act by the accused Amitlal
Orang. The victim's mother also did not implicate that Sukra Orang also
restrained the victim by holding her hand when she tried to escape from the
clutches of Amit Orang. The silence of the victim's mother casts a shadow of
doubt over the veracity of the victim’s evidence.

14) The evidence of P.W.1 further proceeds that she has somehow managed to
push away Sukra and Amit Orang and escaped. Then, she went to Shankar
Orang's house and informed his wife about the incident. The investigating
agency and prosecution failed to produce Shankar's wife as a witness which
is a discrepancy in the evidence. The victim's elder brother was also not

produced as a witness. The victim testified that she met her parents and her
elder brother in Shankar's house and informed them about the incident.
There is not a hint in her mother's evidence that she met her daughter in
Shankar's house.

15)It is true that the evidence of P.W.1, P.W.2, P.W.3, P.W.4, P.W.5 and P.W.6
clearly depicts the public assaulted Amit Orang and Sukra Orang and Sukra
Orang sustained grievous injuries and he underwent treatment at AMCH
hospital also. The reason why the public assaulted the accused persons Amit
Orang and Sukra Orang is also shrouded by mystery. The witnesses P.W.1,
P.W.2, P.W.3, P.W.4, P.W.5 and P.W.6 are silent about the reason why the
public assaulted the accused persons. However, the evidence of P.W.1 depicts
that the accused persons were assaulted because they misbehaved with the
victim. The informant passed away and his evidence could not be recorded.

16) The testimony of the victim also deviates from her statement under Section
164 Cr.P.C because in her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C, the victim
stated that on the evening of the incident Amitlal came to their house and
asked if anybody else were present in the house and then she went inside
the kitchen, he followed her and gagged her and ripped off her entire dress.
She then somehow managed to escape. Unlike her evidence Sukra Orang was
nowhere in the scene. But further in her statement she stated that when she
went to take her nephew with her, then she saw Sukra Orang who held her
by her neck. Due to differences of the statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C
and her evidence, I believe that both the accused persons deserves a benefit
of doubt. Moreover, apart from the victim, not a single witness testified that
the accused person misbehaved with the victim. This also extends a benefit
of doubt to both the accused persons.

17)In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that the victim's
10

evidence does not inspire confidence. It is also held that the prosecution
failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused persons
committed sexual assault on the victim or outraged her modesty by tearing
her dress. The accused persons are also not held guilty under Section 448
IPC because criminal trespass could not be proved beyond a reasonable
doubt. The victim testified in her cross-examination that the accused persons
used to visit them occasionally. So, no criminal trespass can be ascribed. It is
thereby held that the prosecution failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt
that the accused persons committed house trespass.

18)In view of my foregoing discussions, the accused Amit Orang and Sukra
Orang are acquitted from the charges under Section 448/354 (A)/ 354(B) IPC
and also under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, on benefit of doubt and set at
liberty forthwith.

19) It appears that the victim does not deserve compensation, so this case is not
recommended for compensation.
Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 18" day of

November, 2019.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Contd.
11

APPENDIX
POCSO Case No. 68/16

List of witnesses for prosecution:
1. PW-1 Victim 'X';
2. PW-2 Mother of the victim;
3. PW-3 Sri Rajesh Urang;
4. PW-4 Sri Prakash Kanda;
5. PW-5 Sri Motilal Kanda;
PW-6 SI Learnis Pegu.
List of exhibits for prosecution:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim 'X' recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Sketch-Map; and
4. Ext. 4 Charge-Sheet.

List of material exhibits for prosecution: Nil.

a

List of witnesses for defence: Nil.

List of exhibits for defence: Nil.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
