 

 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018,
(U/S- 506 of I.P.C. R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012)

The State of Assam
Versus /
Sabul Mia@Sabul Mullah —___.......... Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee, AJS.

Special Judge, Hailakandi.
For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person :- Sri R.A. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.
s
Dates of recording evidence of PWs. :- 12.06.2018, 24.08.2018, 14.09.2018,

06.10.2018 & 02.01.2019.
Dates of recording evidence of DWs. :- 07.03.2019 & 11.06.2019.

Date of recording statement u/s 313 CrPC:- 19.01.2019.

Date of Argument :- 18.07.2019.
Date of Judgment ‘- 31.07.2019.
JUDGMENT
2. In the present judgment, I do not propose to reveal the

identity of victim girl in view of the provisions of Section 228A I.P.C. and Section
33(7) of the POCSO Act, 2012 and in pursuance of the observations made by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in para-4 in the case of State of Himachal Pradesh vs.
Shree Kant Shekari (AIR 2004 SC 4404) the prosecutrix and her father
(hereinafter referred to as ‘victim’ and‘ respectively). CONDE, svvciass P/2,
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
oie

a The prosecution case in brief is that one ‘A’ lodged an FIR
on 20.02.2018 with the Officer-in-charge, Lala Police Station alleging inter alia
that on 19.02.2018 at about 1 P.M. he along with his minor daughter viz. the
victim went to the house of accused to bring Tabij (talisman) for his ailing wife,
then the accused took the victim inside his house and putting her under fear,
forcefully committed rape on her. The accused threatened her not to disclose the
same to anyone. Thereafter, the accused called him inside his house and gave a
Tabij. When he returned home along with the victim, the victim narrated the
entire incident to her mother, from whom he came to know about the occurrence
and lodged the FIR.

3. The Officer-in-charge, Lala Police Station on receipt of FIR
registered the same vide Lala P.S. Case No. 52/2018 under Section 417/506 of
I.P.C. read with Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

4. During investigation, police visited the place of occurrence,
prepared rough sketch map thereof and recorded the statements of witnesses.
Forwarded the victim for recording her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C.
and also conducted her medical examination. Police arrested the accused person
and forwarded him to the court and after completion of investigation, having
found prima facie case submitted charge against the accused under Section
417/506 of I.P.C. read with Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

5. This court being the Special Court under the POCSO Act

furnished copies of relevant materials to the accused person and after hearing

the Ld. Special Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence counsel and after perusal

of materials available on record having found sufficient grounds for presuming

that the accused person Sabul Mia @ Sabul Mullah committed the offence, formal

charge has been framed against him under Section 506 of I.P.C. read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act.

6. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined
altogether 7 PWs including M.O. & 1.0. The defence plea is of total denial. The
COMBE ss cxhios P/3.
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
Se

accused person was examined under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. wherein he denied all
such incriminating materials brought against him by the prosecution and pleaded
innocence. On the other hand, the defence examined as many as 3 witnesses.

a Heard argument of the Ld. Special Public Prosecutor and
the Ld. Defence counsel.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(I) | Whether the accused person on 19.02.2018 at about 1
P.M. at village Kalacherra Goobil under Lala Police Station committed penetrative
sexual assault on the victim, daughter of the informant and thereby committed
an offence punishable under Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012?

(II) Whether the accused person on the aforesaid date, time
and place committed criminal intimidation by threatening the victim not to
disclose about the sexual assault upon her committed by him and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 506 of I.P.C.?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

8. Before entering into the merit of the case, at the very
outset, it is apposite to go through the evidence available on record and
accordingly, the relevant evidence adduced by the prosecution witnesses is
reproduced below:-

The PW-1, Piarun Nessa Barbhuiya has deposed that she
knows the accused person but does not know the informant. The accused is a
Mulla by profession and many people visit his house at village Kalacherra. She
does not know if any incident occurred in the house of accused person.

In cross examination, she has stated that the accused has
his wife, matured sons and daughters. Sometimes, she works in the house of
accused. Near the house of accused, there are houses of other people. There is a
path in front of the house of accused and the people move over the path on foot
as well as with vehicle. Cont.....0000 P/4.
an.

 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
-4-

9. The PW-2, Monir Uddin Mia has deposed that the accused
is his neighbour. He does not know the informant. He does not know if any
incident occurred in the house of accused.

In cross examination, he has stated that about 3/4 months
back, one Mulla from Anipur came to the house of accused and then there was a
quarrel between them.

10. The PW-3, ‘A’, the informant of the case has deposed that
the victim is his daughter. About 7/8 months back, one day at about 10 A.M. he
along with his wife and the victim came to the house of accused, who is a Mullah
by profession, for the treatment of his sick wife. Accordingly, the accused
provided treatment to his wife. After two days, he again came to the house of
accused along with his daughter viz. the victim and then the accused kept the
victim with him and asked him to sit, keeping his face to the opposite direction.
Then the accused inserted a bamboo cane measuring about 1 cubit inside the
upper clothe of the victim and uttered some ‘Mantra’ and also threw some kind of
oil on the victim, which he was witnessing. Thereafter, he returned back to his
house along with the victim. He has further stated that in the home, the victim
told something to his wife and his wife asked him whether the accused did some
bad acts with the victim. After knowing the same, he lodged the FIR vide Ext.-1.

In cross examination, he has stated that there were many
people sitting with him at that time. When the accused was doing Mullaki with
the victim, he did not raise any objection. He did not notice any bad thing was
being done by the accused with the victim. On the way to his house, the victim
did not report anything to him. Even before lodging the FIR, he did not have any
talk with the victim. He lodged the FIR after hearing the incident from his wife.
He has further stated that the FIR was prepared by one Laden Mullah, who gave
Rs.50/- to the victim. He denied the suggestion that he filed the case as per
instructions of Laden Mullah.

11. The PW-4, the victim, a minor girl has testified that on the
CONG assaxise P/5.
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
Ss

relevant day, when she came to the house of accused/Mullah with her father,
accused gave her a small bamboo cane and asked her to go inside of his house.
Accordingly, she entered inside and there was none in the room. Then the
accused put off her lower garments and did her ‘Asommani’ and on being asked
by the court, she stated that the accused committed bad acts with her on the
sofa set. She has further deposed that at that time her father was outside the
room. She did not raise any hue and cry as she was made disordered by the
accused. Due to bashfulness, she did not disclose the incident to her father.
When she reached home, she narrated the entire incident to her mother. Her
statement was recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. vide Ext.-2 and she was
medically examined. She has further stated that after the incident, her mother
expired.

In cross examination, she has stated that she does not
understand the word ‘bad acts’. In explaining ‘bad acts’, she has stated that the
accused did the bad acts by inserting a small bamboo cane inside her upper
garments and the accused removed her pant with his hand. She has further
stated that she on her own volition made the statement before the Magistrate.
While she was taken before Magistrate, one woman police and her father were
with her. Nobody instructed her anything regarding the facts which she had
stated before Magistrate.

12. The PW-5, Sri Gautam Nath, the Investigating Officer
stated that on 20.02.2018 the Officer-in-charge, Lala Police Station received an
FIR from ‘A’ (informant) and accordingly, registered the same as Lala P.S. Case
No. 52/2018. The Officer-in-charge endorsed him to take pre steps of
investigation. On 22.02.2018 he received the FIR and started investigation and
during investigation, he visited the place of occurrence, prepared rough sketch
map thereof vide Ext.-4 and recorded the statement of informant and other
witnesses. He has further stated that the place of occurrence is the residence of
accused Sabul Mullah. On 20.02.2018 the Officer-in-charge, Sri Monirul Islam got

CONE, corseene P/6.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
&-

the victim medically examined and also got her statement recorded by Magistrate
under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. He (PW-5) apprehended the accused and forwarded
him to the court. After completion of investigation, he handed over the case diary
to the O/C of Lala P.S. and accordingly, the O/C submitted charge sheet against
the accused Sabul Mia @ Sabul Mullah under Section 417/506 of I.P.C. read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

In cross examination, he has stated that during
investigation, he did not find any clothe having semen stain. He did not seize
anything in connection with the case. The informant could not produce any
document to prove the age of victim.

13. The PW-6, Dr. Gunajit Das, Professor & HOD, Forensic
Medicine, SMCH, Silchar stated that on 21.02.2018 he examined the victim in
reference to the Lala P.S. case No. 52/2018 for age estimation and found the
victim was aged above 14 years and below 16 years and Ext.-5 is the said
medical report.

14. The PW-7, Monirul Islam, Officer-in-charge, Lala Police
Station deposed that ASI Gautam Nath conducted preliminary steps of
investigation. After completion of investigation, he submitted charge sheet
against the accused under Section 417/506 of I.P.C. read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012.

45. In the backdrop of above evidence, at the very outset, the
age of the victim is to be determined. The victim while adduced evidence as PW-
4 has stated that her age was about 12 years. The father of the victim has stated
that the age of the victim was 17/18 years. The prosecution has not produced
any document to prove the age of victim. This being the position, the Court has
left with no option but to determine the age on the basis of medical evidence
available on record. The PW-6, Dr. Gunajit Das after conducting radiological test
has opined that the victim was aged above 14 years and below 16 years. The
defence failed to demolish the said medical evidence. The proposition of law is
Cont.....440+. P/7.
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
Pa
settled that the margin of error in radiological age is 2 years in either side.

Therefore, even after addition of 2 years to the higher side, it is appeared that
the victim was below 18 years of age at the relevant time and she was minor.

16. The PWs- 1 & 2 have deposed that they do not know
anything about the incident and it is very much acceptable because the victim did
not disclose about the incident to anyone except her mother, moreover the PWs-
1&2 are from the same village of accused.

a7. The PW-3, the informant who is the father of the victim by
lodging Ext.-1, FIR has stated that when he returned home along with the victim
from the house of accused, the victim told her mother that the accused
committed rape on her inside his house but while he adduced evidence as PW-3,
he did not state anything implicating the accused rather stated in cross
examination that he did not notice any bad act was being done upon the victim
by the accused. The PW-3 has stated in his evidence that he saw the accused
inserting a small bamboo cane inside the upper clothe of his daughter and
uttered some Mantra and then the accused threw some oil on his daughter. So,
according to PW-3, on the relevant day, the accused did not commit any bad act
with the victim. However, it is revealed from his evidence that the accused
inserted a small bamboo cane inside the upper garments of the victim and when
the victim reached her house she had narrated something to her mother and
thereafter, the PW-3 filed the case.

18. Though the PW-3, father of the victim did not implicate the
accused for the reasons best known to him but the victim while adduced
evidence has testified that on the relevant day, when she along with her father
went to the house of accused, the accused told her to go inside and accordingly,
she went inside of his house in a room where she was alone and then the
accused put off her lower garments and did her “Asommani” on his sofa set and
in explaining the word “Asommani”, she has stated that the accused did bad acts
with her on the sofa set and at that time, her father was outside the room. In
COME, .10+00 P/8.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
i.

cross examination, the victim very categorically stated that the accused did bad
acts by inserting a small bamboo cane inside her upper garments and also
removed her pant with his hand. During cross examination of the victim, the
defence could not bring out any contradiction and even failed to shake the credit
of her testimony. The victim has testified that she made her statement before Ld.
Magistrate under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. vide Ext.-2 and while she was cross
examined on Ext.-2 statement, she in a very clear and cogent terms has stated
that what she stated before Magistrate was stated by her on her own volition
and nobody instructed her to make any such statement. Now, let us see what
the victim has stated in her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. vide Ext.-2.
The victim has stated in the said statement that on the relevant day, when she
went to the house of accused along with her father to bring Tabij for her mother,
accused took her inside his house and her father was asked to sit outside. Then
the accused put off her clothes and engaged in all the unacceptable things, the
accused pressed her breast, undressed her lower garments and committed
sexual intercourse with her. She has further stated that she could not raise hue
and cry as the accused gagged her mouth.

19, From the evidence of victim before the court and the
statements made by her before Magistrate, the only difference comes out is that
in her evidence she has stated that the accused did her “Asommani” on the sofa
set by removing her lower garments (pant) with his hand and in explaining the
word “Asommani” she has stated that the accused did bad acts with her on the
sofa set and while she made her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., she has
stated that the accused pressed her breast and undressed her lower garments
and committed sexual intercourse with her. The victim is a minor girl who has
got no enmity with the accused and therefore, there is no reason to disbelieve
her evidence. In her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., she has specifically
in clear and cogent terms narrated the entire incident but while she adduced
evidence, she did not state all such things but simply stated that the accused by
removing her pant did bad acts with her on the sofa set in a room where nobody
COME .1sss00s P/Y.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
-9-

was present. Here, the question does arise as to why the victim did not narrate
the incident elaborately while she adduced evidence and this might be due to
bashfulness as at the time of deposition, the Ld. Advocates of both the sides and
her father were present there. When she made her statement before Magistrate,
presumably there was none except the Ld. Magistrate. What she has stated in
her evidence is sufficient to understand that the accused took her in a room and
put off her pant and committed bad acts with her on the sofa set and the said
evidence receives corroboration from the statements made by her before the Ld.
Magistrate at the very earliest possible opportunity. Further, the defence failed to
bring out any contradiction in her evidence. On the basis of the evidence of the
victim, it is very much clear before this Court that the accused did penetrative
sexual assault on the victim.

20. The father of the victim lodged the FIR after hearing the
incident from his wife as the victim disclosed the incident for the first time to her
mother. The mother of the victim is not alive and therefore, there is no scope to
examine her. Except the mother, the victim did not state anything about the
incident to anybody including her father. The father of the victim while adduced
evidence, for the best reasons known to him made some statements as if the
accused did not commit any bad acts with his daughter, but the victim by
adducing evidence negated the testimony of her father and very categorically
stated that the accused did bad acts with her in a room and at that time, her
father was outside. It is worth mentioning that the entire trial was conducted by
this Court itself and during examination of PW-3, the father of the victim, this
Court realised that the father of the victim was deposing in the line of
compromise.

ai. The medical report dated 21.04.2018 issued by Dr. R.
Begum as available on record though not proved and exhibited by the
prosecution, still it has been taken into consideration to reach just decision. The
medical report reveals that on the next day of occurrence, the victim was
Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
-10-

medically examined but no evidence of recent sexual intercourse and no mark of
violence over her body or private parts have been detected.

22. At this juncture, I respectfully referred myself to a decision
of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Ranjit Hazarika vs. State of Assam,
(1998) 8 SCC 635), in which it has been held that the courts must, while
evaluating evidence, remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self-
respecting woman would come forward in a court just to make a humiliating
statement against her honour such as is involved in the commission of rape on
her. In cases involving sexual molestation, supposed considerations which have
no material effect on the veracity of the prosecution case or even discrepancies
in the statement of the prosecutrix should not, unless the discrepancies are such
which are of fatal nature, be allowed to throw out an otherwise reliable
prosecution case. The inherent bashfulness of the females and the tendency to
conceal outrage of sexual aggression are factors which the courts should not
overlook. The testimony of the victim in such cases is vital and unless there are
compelling reasons which necessitate looking for corroboration of her statement,
the courts should find no difficulty to act on the testimony of a victim of sexual
assault alone to convict an accused where her testimony inspires confidence and
is found to be reliable. Seeking corroboration of her statement before relying
upon the same, as a rule, in such cases amounts to adding insult to injury.

23: In Radhu v. State of M.P., (2007) 12 SCC 57 the
honourable Supreme Court has held as follows: :

6. It is now well settled that a finding of guilt in a case of
rape, can be based on the uncorroborated evidence of the prosecutrix. The very
nature of offence makes it difficult to get direct corroborating evidence. The
evidence of the prosecutrix should not be rejected on the basis of minor
discrepancies and contradictions. If the victim of rape states on oath that she
was forcibly subjected to sexual intercourse, her statement will normally be
accepted, even if it is uncorroborated, unless the material on record requires

CONE, «vse P/11.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
«§%s

drawing of an inference that there was consent or that the entire incident was
improbable or imaginary. Even if there is consent, the act will still be a "rape", if
the girl is under 16 years of age. It is also well settled that absence of injuries on
the private parts of the victim will not by itself falsify the case of rape, nor
construed as evidence of consent. Similarly, the opinion of a doctor that there
was no evidence of any sexual intercourse or rape, may not be sufficient to
disbelieve the accusation of rape by the victim. Bruises, abrasions and scratches
on the victim especially on the forearms, wrists, face, breast, thighs and back are
indicative of struggle and will support the allegation of sexual assault. The courts
should, at the same time, bear in mind that false charges of rape are not
uncommon. There have also been rare instances where a parent has persuaded
a gullible or obedient daughter to make a false charge of a rape either to take
revenge or extort money or to get rid of financial liability. Whether there was
rape or not would depend ultimately on the facts and circumstances of each
case.

24. For the purpose of clarifying the medico-legal aspect of the
case, I would respectfully refer myself to a decision of the Hon'ble Gauhati High
Court in Haren Borah vs. State of Assam, 2011 (3) GLR 44, where the
Doctor after examining the victim opined that there was no sign of sexual
intercourse and the hymen was intact and if the medical report is read with the
evidence of Medical Officer, it is apparent that no rape is committed on the victim
girl, but the Hon’ble High Court placing reliance upon M, P. Vs. Munna
Choubey and Anr., reported in (2005) 2 SCC 710 and Tarkeswar Sahu
Vs. State of Bihar (Now Jharkhand) reported in (2006) 8 SCC 560 has
held that an attempt of penetration by penis touching labia majora or vulva in
pudenda surely constitutes the offence of rape.

25. In view of above, it is discernible that even if the medical
report says that there is no evidence of recent sexual intercourse and marks of
injury on the body or private parts of the victim, the possibility of rape cannot be
Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
es

ruled out. Further, the proposition of law has been settled that in a rape case,
the conviction can be sustained only on the basis of sole testimony of prosecutrix
if her testimony has been found to be otherwise relevant and creditworthy. In
the instant case, the evidence of victim has been found to be highly
corroborative with her earlier statements made before Magistrate and police,
further the defence failed to bring out any enmity of the victim with the accused
which has motivated her to testify falsely. The victim is a minor girl and there is
nothing on record to hold the view that the victim with intent to harass the
accused person made such false allegations.

26. The defence side examined 3 witnesses. The DW-1 is the
accused who has stated that prior to one month of incident, he had a dispute
with another Mullah namely Laden Mullah out of monetary transaction.
Thereafter, the informant ‘A’ came to his house along with his daughter and he
provided necessary treatment to her in presence of her father but after 3 days,
the informant lodged the FIR against him. The DW-2 has deposed that he saw
one Laden Mullah was quarrelling with the accused. The DW-3 also stated about
the dispute of the accused with a person of Karimganj. Though all the 3
witnesses were examined by the defence but their testimony has got no
connection with the present case.

27. From the trend of cross examination of prosecution
witnesses by defence, it is appeared that the defence tried to establish that the
informant filed the case on being instigated by one Laden Mullah but the
informant denied the same. Moreover, the victim during her cross examination
made it explicitly clear that Laden Mullah was not with her when she was taken
to the court by police and she made her statement before Ld. Magistrate on her
own volition without being influenced by others. Therefore, the defence evidence
has been found to be highly unreliable and thus, discarded.

28. There are some statutory provisions in the POCSO Act,
2012 relating to presumptions of which Section 29 deals with presumption as to
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
«43-

certain offences and Section 30 deals with presumption of culpable mental state.
The relevant provisions of law have been quoted below:

"29, Presumption as to certain offences.—Where a person
is prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
Sections 3, 5, 7 and Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that such
person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may
be unless the contrary /s proved.”

"30, Presumption of culpable mental state.—(1) In
any prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental
state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume the existence of
such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that
he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in
that prosecution.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when the
Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when
its existence is established by a preponderance of probability.

Explanation.—In this section, “culpable mental state” includes intention, motive,
knowledge of a fact and the belief in, or reason to believe, a fact.”

29. In the light of above presumptions, if the evidence of the
victim reads together with her statements recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C.,
it is surfaced that the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim
and the defence failed to rebut the presumptions.

30. On evaluation of entire evidence on record, this Court
comes to the conclusion that the prosecution is able to prove its case beyond all
reasonable doubt and the accused Sabul Mia @ Sabul Mullah has been found
guilty of committing offence of penetrative sexual assaulted on the victim.
However, he is acquitted of the offence under Section 506 of I.P.C. as there is no
material found attracting the offence. COMED, sv0000s P/14.
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
-14-
31, Accordingly, the accused person Sabul Mia @ Sabul
Mullah is convicted under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

32. For hearing the convict on the point of sentence, he has
been given 5 hours’ time. Heard the convict on the point of sentence as well as
his Ld. Counsel and also the Ld. Special Public Prosecutor. The convict has stated
that he is the sole bread winner of his family comprising his wife and little
children and has prayed for clemency.

33. After having heard as above taking into consideration the
nature and gravity of the offence committed and its impact on the society, this
Court is of the opinion that the following punishment would meet the ends of
justice.

The convict Sabul Mia @ Sabul Mullah is sentenced
to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 10 (ten) years and to
pay fine of Rs.10,000/-, in default, he shall undergo further rigorous
imprisonment for 6 (six) months under Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
2012.

The period of incarceration already underwent by the
convict during investigation and trial shall be set off from the sentence. The fine
if realised shall be paid to the victim.

34. In the instant case, according to me, the victim is required
to be adequately compensated and as such, the District Legal Services Authority,
Hailakandi is hereby recommended to assess the quantum of compensation to be
paid to the victim under the Victim Compensation Scheme after expiry of appeal
period and if appeal is preferred against the judgment, then as per decision of
the hon’ble appellate court.

35. Furnish a free copy of this judgment to the convict
immediately. The convict has been informed of his right to appeal before the
Hon’ble Gauhati High Court.

COME, cccsies P/1S.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 03/2018.
-15-
36. Send copy of this judgment to the Ld. District Magistrate,
Hailakandi and the District Legal Services Authority, Hailakandi.
37. The bail bonds of the accused person stand discharged.
38. The Special (POCSO) Case is disposed of accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 31*
day of July, 2019 at Hailakandi.

WC .
aN .

Special Judge,
Hailakandi.

Special Judge, Hailakandi.

 

COMA, . 100000 P/16.
Oral Evidences :-

PW-1, Piarun Nessa Barbhuiya.
PW-2, Monir Uddin Mia.

PW-3, Informant.

PW-4, Victim .

PW-5, Sri Gautam Nath.

PW-6, Dr. Gunajit Das.

PW-7, Sri Manirul Islam.

Documentary Evidences :-

Ext.-1, FIR.

-16-

Ext.-2, Statement of victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

Ext.-3, FIR Form.

Ext.-4, Sketch map of the place of occurrence.

Ext.-5, Medical report.
Ext.-6, Radiological report.
Ext.-7, Charge sheet.

Defence evidence:
DW-1, Accused Sabul Mullah.
DW-2, Azijur Rehman Mia.

DW-3, Altaf Hussain Barbhuiya.

ar

al Judge,
Hailakandi.
