IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE = o::i1::: ~~» CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

 

ial (P : 2
U/S 366/376(1) IPC R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Vs.

Md. Ismail Ali nnn. Accused

PRESENT: Shri D.J. Mahanta,
Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.

ADVOCATES APPEARED:
For the State : Shri D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor

For the accused ’ Shri M. Islam, Ld. Advocate

Date of evidence : 11.06.19, 24.07.19

Date of Argument —_: 31.07.2019
Date of Judgment : 31.07.2019

JUDGMENT

es | a
>\' 1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 24.01.2019, the

acial sudge informant Md. Hamed Ali lodged an FIR before O/C of Dhaligaon Police Station
onan Kajarg2o" alleging that on 14.01.2019, at about 10.30 PM, accused Ismail Ali kidnapped
his 17 years old daughter Miss ‘Xx’ (name is withheld) from his house. After

searching her in different places, she was recovered on 19.01.2019. Then on

22.01.2019, at evening hours, the accused was caught red handed by the

informant and others when he came to the house of the informant and again

tried to kidnap the victim. The matter was informed to the family members of

the accused but as none from the family of the accused came to the house of

the informant, the matter was informed to the police and on 23.01.2019 in the

evening, the police came to the house of the informant and took the accused

to the police station.
2. After receiving the FIR, the O/C of Dhaligaon P.S. registered a
case being numbered as Dhaligaon P.S. Case No. 14/2019 U/S 365 IPC and
entrusted A.S.I. Nur Hussain Khan to take pre-step and S.I. Surajit Sarkar was
entrusted to complete the investigation of the case. Accordingly, the
Investigating Officer arrested the accused, visited the place of occurrence,
drew sketch map of the P.O., recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent
the victim for medical examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C, collected the medical report and after completion of investigation, S.I.
Surajit Sarkar submitted charge-sheet against the accused Ismail Ali U/S
365/376 IPC R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act. After receiving charge sheet, copies
of relevant documents were furnished to the accused person. Accused person
was produced from jail. On perusal of entire materials on record and hearing
both sides and after having found a prima facie case, formal charge U/S
366/376(1) IPC read with Section 6 of POCSO Act was framed against the
accused. Charge was read over and explained to the accused to which he
denied to plead guilty. Later on, accused person was released on bail after
recording evidence of victim.

a In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as 4

(four) witnesses.
Following witnesses were examined:-

(1) Victim Miss ‘X’ (name is withheld) as PW 1
(2) Md. Hamed Ali (Informant) as PW 2

1 099 on |
epee? Kare . (3) Dr. Kukumoni Basumatary (M.O.) as PW 3
cron" (4) A.S.I. Nur Hussain Khan (1.0.) as PW 4

Considering the evidence of material witnesses, learned P.P.
prayed to close the evidence. I have also found that further evidence would
not establish the case against the present accused for which further evidence

was closed.

4. Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext.1.
FIR was exhibited as Ext. 2. Medical report was exhibited as Ext.3. Extract
copy of Dhaligaon P.S. G.D. Entry No. 608 dated 23.01.2019 was exhibited as
Ext.4. Sketch map was exhibited as Ext.5 and charge-sheet was exhibited as
Ext.6.

5. Defence plea is of total denial. Statement of accused person

was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Defence adduced no evidence.

6. Heard argument from both sides. I have perused the entire
evidence on record. I have also considered the statement of the accused
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

7. Now points for consideration:-
For the offence U/S 366 of IPC

1. Whether on 14.01.2019, at about 10.30 p.m., at village
Hashraobari under Dhaligaon P.S., the accused kidnapped Miss
‘x’ (name is withheld), minor daughter of the informant with

intent to seduce her for illicit intercourse?
For the offence U/S 376(1) of IPC

2. Whether on the same date, time and place and after 14.01.19,

at different places, the accused committed rape upon Miss xX’

AX (name is withheld), minor daughter of the informant?
ao

For the offence U/S 6 of POCSO Act

Whether on the same date, time and place and after 14.01.19,
the accused committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault
upon Miss ‘Xx’ (name is withheld), minor daughter of the
informant?
ISCUSSI DECISI ND REASONS THEREFOR:-

8. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record regarding above mentioned all points simultaneously for the sake of
convenience.

9. The material witness victim was examined as PW 1. It Is
revealed from her evidence that there was a love affair between her and
accused. On the date of occurrence, at about 8 PM, she along with accused
went to Dhubri in a Maruti vehicle. They stayed few days thereon. After that
she was taken by her brother. The victim clearly stated that during her stay
along with the accused, no physical relationship took place. In this regard, she
exhibited her earlier statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C as Ext.1 in which she
had stated that accused committed sexual intercourse with her. Said fact was
denied by victim in her later deposition. According to victim, her age was
above 18 years and she fled away with the accused.

10. The father of the victim was examined as PW 2, who also
deposed in the same line as stated by victim. According to him, at the time of
occurrence, age of the victim was about 18 to 19 years and she was reading
in Class-IX. He also deposed that victim fled away with the accused and after
knowing the fact that both victim and accused were residing at Dhubri, she
was recovered from Dhubri. This witness also clearly stated that victim did not
state anything about their physical relationship. According to him, no physical
relationship took place in between the accused and victim. This witness in his
_ cross-examination confirmed the fact that due to love affair, victim eloped
with the accused but he had no intention to accept the accused as his son-in-
law for which he lodged the case. This witness stated that in school certificate
actual age of the victim was not mentioned. According to this witness, actual
age of the victim was above 18 years.

11. PW 3 is the Medial Officer, who examined the victim. She
deposed that on 25.01.19, she was working as Medical & Health Officer-1 at
JSB Civil Hospital, Kajalgaon. On that day, at about 11.20 a.m., she examined
Miss ‘*X’ (name is withheld), aged about 17 years, D/O Hamed Ali of village
Hashraobari, P.S. Dhaligaon in connection with Dhaligaon P.S. Case No. 14/19
U/S 365 IPC, who was brought by Hafeja Khatun and identified by WHG
Ranjita Basumatary.

district.

There was history of sexual assault on 15.01.19 in Dhubri

On examination, she found the following:-

Physical examination:-

(i) Height - 149 cm (ii) Chest girth (at nipple line —- 78 cm,
(iii) Abdomen girth (at Umbilicus) — 72 cm, (iv) Teeth - 7/7, 7/7.

Scalp hairs — present.
Axillary hairs — present.
Pubic hairs — present.

Breasts — moderately developed.

History of puberty —

absent).

Menarche — Five years back.

Menstrual cycle — regular.

L.M.P. — 20.12.18

General examination —

Genital organs and vulva — No abnormality detected.

Hymen — ruptured.

Vagina, cervix uterus — No abnormality detected.

No injury found on her body or private parts.

Vaginal swab for spermatozoa — not seen.

General mental condition —

(a) Co-operation and behavior - Conscious and well oriented.
(b) Intelligence and memory — Intact.

(c) Gait — Normal.

X-ray — Right wrist - Ulnar and radial physis (growth plate
Gt"

’ r.\% 4
» eo
i

ct a »
coe Ko! \ es 2

mon?”
ON

30"

Right elbow joint — External epicondyle completely fused.
Internal epicondyle completely fused. Olecrenon fused. Trachea fused. Head

of radius fused.

Pelvic bone — Iliac crest, anterior inferior iliac spine, pubic

symphysis, ischeal, tuberosity all appeared on process of fusion.

Hip joint - Head, appeared and fuses. Greater trochanter and
lesser trochanter appeared and fused.

Vaginal swab test for spermatozoa not seen.
Pregnancy test — Negative.

According to the Medical Officer, no any injury mark was seen
on her private parts or body. The age of the victim is 18 years old but below
20 years from X-ray report but it could not be ascertained whether she was

raped or not.

12. PW 4 is the I.0., who investigated the case. He deposed that
on 23.01.2019, he was serving as ASI of Police at Dhaligaon P.S. On that day,
at about 4.50 p.m., concerned O.C. got information over phone that present
accused already took the daughter of Hamid Ali and after that he again came
to the house of Hamid Ali to take his daughter to his home. Thereafter, O.C.
entrusted him for taking pre-step of investigation. Then he proceeded to the
house of the informant Hamid Ali after making Dhaligaon P.S. GD Entry No.
608 dated 23.01.19 and brought the accused to police station, examined him
medically at hospital and on next day, he examined the victim, collected the
Photostat copy of L.P. School certificate of victim issued by Headmaster
Hashraobari L.P. School from Hatipota M.E. School. According to said school
certificate, date of birth of the victim is 20.10.2002. He seized the school
certificate, sent the victim to JSB Civil Hospital, Kajalgaon for medical
examination and to the Court for recording her statement U/S 164 CrPC,
recorded the statement of the witnesses, drew sketch map of the place of
occurrence, arrested the accused and after completion of pre-step, he handed
over the case diary to O.C. Later on, S.I. Surajit Sarkar submitted formal
charge-sheet against the accused Ismail Ali for the offence U/s 365/376 IPC
R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act. During cross, he deposed that he met 15/16
persons in the house of the informant but he did not examine them. He did
not visit Dhubri. He did not inquire about the fact how date of birth was
inserted in the Admission Register by the Headmaster. He collected the copy
of L.P. School Certificate from Hatipota M.E. School but he did not visit
Hashraobari L.P. School though certificate was issued by Headmaster,
Hashraobari L.P. School. He also did not collect the original L.P. School
Certificate of the victim.

13. After going through the entire evidence on record, particularly
evidence of victim and informant, it is found that age of the victim was about
18 years which fact is also revealed from the medical evidence. The PW 3 also
stated that age of the victim is 18 years but below 20 years. So, at the time of
occurrence, victim was major. It is also found that initially the victim fled away
with the accused and stayed at Dhubri. The informant and his family members
recovered her. At that moment, no case Was filed. According to 1.0., on
23.01.19, according to the direction of then O.C., he proceeded to the house
of the informant and found the accused thereon. It was informed to police on
that day that already victim was taken by the accused and after that on
23.01.19 he again came to the house of the informant to take back the victim
along with him. So, on 23.01.19, no any incident took place regarding taking
of victim by the accused. The initial incident of taking or elopement of victim
took place two days prior to the filing of the FIR. As there was consent on the
part of the victim and informant was aware of the fact that there was love
affair between the accused and victim for which he did not lodge any FIR
immediately after the elopement. It is also revealed from the evidence of the
informant that age of the victim was 18 years. Victim also supported this fact.
Medical evidence also corroborated the age stated by informant. No any
school certificate was exhibited though PW 4 collected Photostat copy of the
L.P. School certificate of the victim. So, Photostat copy of said certificate has
no any evidentiary value. The 1.0. categorically stated that he did not take
any step to collect the original certificate issued by Headmaster of Hashraobari
L.P. School in which victim was first admitted. Considering the evidence of
victim and informant and medical evidence, in my view, there is no case under
any Section of POCSO Act as well as Indian Penal Code because a major girl
went with accused according to her own will and they stayed in a place where
no physical relationship took place between them as revealed from the
evidence on record. After going through the entire evidence on record, it is
not proved that accused took the victim. So, main ingredient of kidnapping is
also missing. So, there is no case against the accused to book him under the
above mentioned Sections. The points mentioned above are remained as not

proved. Accused is not found guilty.
RDE

14. Prosecution miserably failed to prove the case U/S 366/376(1)
IPC read with Section 6 of POCSO Act against accused Ismail Ali. Accused is
acquitted and set at liberty. His bail bond is cancelled.

15. A copy of the Judgment shall be given to the District
Magistrate, Chirang for information.

Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 31% day
of July, 2019, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

ote by So if of
Chi or
Dictated and corrected by me, ve paigaon

nu

(D.J. Mahanta)
eH wages
Chiteogirdagialoron

KKK KK
APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:
PW 1 — Victim Miss ‘X’ (name is withheld)
PW 2 - Md. Hamed Ali (Informant)
PW 3 — Dr. Kukumoni Basumatary (M.O.)
PW 4 —A.S.I. Nur Hussain Khan (1.0.)
Exhibit (P tion):
Ext-1 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext-2 FIR
Ext-3 Medical report
Ext-4 Extract copy of Dhaligaon P.S. G.D. Entry No. 608 dated 23.01. 2019
Ext-5 Sketch map
Ext-6 Charge-sheet
Material Exhibit (Prosecution):
Nil.
Def itness:
Nil.
Defence Exhibit:
Nil.
(D.J. Gal LD

Speeiak Judge,
Chir@hirang...-—
