 

we,
f.. eh \
Qk AP
> yay
as 24 *S
| Pooks
et i a * }
ror t issue j
Vk ne aia
\e . ‘ rh iG fx
% ! agi Tie,
. waé
OF % “ ag a
“eS Vie toes a i
A hy { a

Page 1 of 4

Spl. POCSO Case No. 03/2017
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FIC, BISWANATH CHARIALI

SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl POCSO Case No. 03/2017
u/s 8 of POCSO Act, 2012

 

 

State of Assam
-VS-
Sri Jiten Munda

ise Accused person

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Special Judge,

Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

\ Advocates Appeared:-

an For the prosecution: Ms. J. Kalita, learned Addi. P.P

For the defence : Mr. G. Borah, learned Advocate.

Date of recording Evidence: 15.07.2019.
Date of Argument : 15.07.2019.
Date of Judgment : 15.07.2019.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 21.02.2017 the informant namely. Smti Mangri
Koruwa lodged an FIR with the OC, Gohpur PS stating inter alia that on 19.02.2017 at
about 7 PM when her 13-year-old daughter (name is withheld) was returning to her house
from a shop situated at Balijan Mathauri, the accused taking advantage of darkness
wrongfully restrained her and pulled her to the nearby jungle in order to commit rape on
her. Hearing the noise raised by her daughter, as the people from nearby gathered, the life
of her daughter was saved.

sft fe 3& Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After

ae a

investigation, the police submitted charge-sheet against the accused Jiten Munda u/s 8 of
the POCSO Act.

3. The accused in due course appeared before this court to face trial. Copies of the relevant
documents were furnished to him. After hearing both the sides on the point of charge,
taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173 CrPC, as this court found grounds for

presuming that the accused person had committed an offence punishable u/s 8 of the
Page 2 of 4

Spl. POCSO Case No. 03/2017
POCSO Act, 2012, the charge was accordingly framed against him, which on being read

over and explained, the accused pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial, the prosecution examined the informant and the alleged victim. Looking into
their evidence the prosecution declined to examine the remaining witnesses contending
that further evidence would not strengthen its case. Taking note of the evidence as
adduced by both these vital witnesses, the prosecution evidence was closed. As no
incriminating evidence was found against the accused, his examination u/s 313 CrPC was

dispensed with. The case was thereafter, argued by both the sides.

Points for determination

 

 

AF \ Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed sexual assault on

\ =] the said victim, who is below the age of 18 years?

Me . rn Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

ea 5. PW 1 is the victim. She stated that the incident took place about a year back. According
to her, on that day in the evening hours when she was on the way to a shop, the
accused met her on the road and spoke to her, Witnessing both of them together, the
people nearby raised alarm. She stated that the accused is her brother-in-law in
relation. Her mother out of fear and on being asked by the villagers, lodged the FIR
against the accused. Later, she gave her statement u/s 164 CrPC, which she proved as
Ext. 1. In her cross-examination, she stated that her mother had lodged the FIR against
the accused out of misunderstanding. She has no grievance against the accused and
according to her, the accused is innocent.

6. PW 2 is the informant, Smti Mangri Koruwa and the mother of the alleged victim. She
stated that on the day of the said occurrence, the accused in an inebriated condition
held the hands of the victim. She stated that when the people of the village noticed that
incident, they asked her to lodged an FIR, which she did and proved the same as Ext. 2.

J [4 She however, stated that the accused did not misbehave her daughter and as she was
asked by the villagers to lodge an FIR, she out of misunderstanding lodged the same.

~> ~\ She also stated that the accused is innocent.

\>\ 7. Thus from the evidence of both these vital witnesses, we do not find any material

a. against the accused person to convict him on the offence charged against him. The

. prosecution has failed to proved its case. As such I acquit the accused from the offence

ag? charged against him and set him at liberty forthwith. His bail bond stands discharged.
The provision u/s 437-A CrPC is not complied with after taking note of the evidence on
record. A copy of the judgment be forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in
compliance with the sec. 365 Cr.P.C. The case is disposed of.
 

Page 3 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 03/2017
Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 15th day of July, 2019.

et ge AL,

 

_ Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
a Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.
ia

’ 3,444

CERISE
acd Sacsiere « spk
pha isce + meh ub Laas
Catal, ayien?

 

Bigwanall
Page 4 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 03/2017

ANNEXURE ES oO £85

s/ WO \
Witnesses examined by the Prosecution: (o| i i

«|
PW1- Victim ee

KS aN SOyrs, | fe sta i
PW2- Smti Mangri Koruwa Nes .

ng why i

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Exhibit-1: Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC
Exhibit-2: FIR

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

None.

oe A\Y
\5 14 :
79

Cae te’e «

1 SAL i
Adu orn Sys

ana nena
evs
on3s
