 

ae

1%

ac?
ne vos

 

Page 1 of 4

Spl (POCSO) Case No. 09/2017
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI,

Spl. (POCSO)Case No. 09/2017
‘u/s 366-A/376 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act 2012

(Arising out of G.R. Case No. 127/2017)

State of Assam
“ys-
Sri Nitul Hazarika
Accused

Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Present:

 

Advocates Appeared:-
For the prosecution: Mr. J. Bardoloi, learned Addl. P.P

For the defence =: Mr. R. K. Sarma, learned Advocate.
Date of recording Evidence: 22.05.2018.
: 22.05.2018,
> 22.05.2018.

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 16.03.2017 the informant namely Sri Dilip
Telenga lodged an FIR with the OC Biswanath Chariali PS stating inter-alia that on
14.03.2017 at about 3 PM his 16 year old daughter (name is withheld) went missing
from his house. Later the mother of the accused Nitul Hazarika informed him over
phone that her son had abducted his daughter.
Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After
investigation the police submitted charge-sheet against the accused u/s 366 (A) IPC/
Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012. The accused in due course appeared before this court to
face trial. The copies of the relevant documents were furnished to him. After hearing
both the sides on the point of charge, taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173
CrPC, as this court found grounds for presuming that the accused had committed
offences punishable u/s 366-A/376 IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012, the
charges were accordingly framed against him, which on being read over and explained,

the accused pleaded not guilty.
   
  

3.

ae

7.

Page 2 of 4
Spl (POCSO) Case No. 09/2017

During trial, the prosecution examined the informant and the victim as PW 1 and PW 2
respectively. Looking into the evidence as adduced by both these vital witnesses, the
prosecution declined to examine the remaining witnesses contending that further
evidence would not strengthen the prosecution case. Taking note of the evidence as
adduced by these vital witnesses, the prosecution evidence was closed. As no

incriminating evidence was found against the accused, his examination u/s 313 CrPC

Points for determination

- i) Whether the accused on the day of alleged occurrence induced the said victim,

Se, who is a minor girl under the age of 18 years to go from her house with intent
that she may be or knowing that it is likely that she will be forced to illicit
intercourse with another person?

li) Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence in his house situated
at Gojalbari Village committed rape on the said victim, who is under the age of

18 years?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

PW 1 is the informant and the father of the alleged victim. He deposed that the accused
is his son-in-law. According to him, about a year back when one day he returned from
his work, he did not find his daughter- the victim in his house. As he could not find her
out, he lodged the FIR which he proved as Ext-1. Later, he could know that the victim
was in the house of the accused and she had love affair with him. Later, he married
away his daughter to the accused performing the social rites. He stated that his
daughter was 20 years of age at that relevant time.

Thus from the evidence of PW 1, we find no material against the accused shich shows
that the victim was induced by the accused or that he had committed rape on her.
Moreover, according to PW 1, his daughter was 20 years of age at that relevant time.
PW 2, the victim deposed that the informant is her father. She stated that on the day of
the said occurrence, she had gone with the accused. She stated that later she was
married to him. She stated that she has been living happily with him and she is now
pregnant. She further stated that she had gone along with the accused on her own wish
and he did not misbehave with her.

The evidence of PW 2 too does not disclose that she was induced by the accused to go
from her house or that the accused had committed rape on her. From the evidence of
both these vital witnesses, we find that the prosecution has failed to prove its case. As

such, I acquit the accused person from the offences charged against him and set him at
Page 3 of 4
Spl (POCSO) Case No. 09/2017
liberty forthwith. The petition no. 974/18 filed by the accused u/s 437-A CrPC is allowed

upon hearing both the sides. His bail bond is extended for a period of six months. A

copy of the judgment be forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance

  
  

oe

o (vo, BaRAS)IY
Antara ONS Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.

di. Sessions Judge
Bue Chariali, Sonitpur,
Page 4 of 4
Spl (POCSO) Case No. 09/2017
ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Sri Dilip Telenga
PW2- Victim

 

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Exhibit-1: FIR.

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

None.

Addl. Sessions b'-9
Biswanath Chana, oummpur
