Page 1 of 13

DISTRICT- Charaideo.
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE: CHARAIDEO:

SONARI

Present:-

Syed Imdadur Rahman, AJS.

ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE

The 26" day of April, 2019.

SPECIAL (POCSO) NO: 23 OF 2014
Under Section

6 of the POCSO Act r/w 376(2)(i) IPC

State of Assam
-Versus-
Jay Chandra Gogoi
eae enc Accused person

(The case was committed by the ld.
Judicial Magistrate 1° Class, Charaideo,
vide order dated 07-07-2014 passed in
connection with G.R. Case no. 233/14)

This case was taken up for final hearing on 17-12-2018 & 24-04-2019 in the

presence of

Mr. Basanta GOGOi.......:.cseceseeee Advocate for prosecution side.
Mr. Utpal Chutiia .......:ccsseseeeseeees Advocate of the accused.

F.I.R was lodged on iiiiiin:: 16-04-2014

Charge framed on mini: 28-08-2014 & 31-10-2018
Argument Heard on ininiin: 17-12-2018 & 24-04-2019

Judgment Delivered on i::::::::: 26-04-2019
Page 2 of 13

JUDGMENT

In this case the accused is facing trial
under section 6 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act,
2012 and sec. 376 (2)(i) of Indian

Penal Code.

1. In this case the informant /e. Shri Tuleswar Phukan lodged an FIR before
the Sapekhati Police Station on 16-04-2014, alleging that the accused Sri Jay
Chandra Gogoi used to come to their house and prior to 5 months, one night,
established sexual relation with his 16 years old daughter, namely “A” (name not

mentioned) after inducing her of marriage, resulting her pregnancy.

2. After the incident the informant lodged an F.I.R. before the Sapekhati
Police Station which registered its P.S. case no. 19/14. Police after investigation
forwarded charge-sheet against the accused u/s 6 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act r/w sec. 493/376 IPC. Thereafter, case was committed and
charge u/s 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences act was framed
against the accused person. At a later stage in compliance with sec. 42 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act charge was reframed. The
charge u/s 6 of P.O.C.S.O Act and sec. 376(2)(i) IPC was framed again. The
charge was read over and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried. After this, both side submitted before court
that they will rely on the evidences on record and will not adduce either further
evidence or further cross-examine any PWs. In this regard defense side filed
petition no. 1034/18.

3. Accused person was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C., where he denied the case
of the prosecution. The prosecution examined nine witnesses. The accused
person examined no witness. I have heard arguments put forwarded by both

sides.
Page 3 of 13

4. Points For Determination in this case are:-

A) Whether, the accused committed aggravated penetrative sexual
assault against the minor daughter of the informant?

Or, alternatively,
B) | Whether the accused committed rape upon the minor daughter

of the informant, who was below the age of 16 years at that time?

5. DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS FOR THE DECISION

6. Before discussing of the evidences on record and before arriving at a
decision, let us now look in to two vital legal aspect connected to this case. Here
in this case the accused is facing trial primarily under the Protection of children
from Sexual Offences Act 2012.

Section 29 of the act is as follows:- Where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
section 3,5,7 and Section 9 of this act, the Special Court shall presume,
that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is proved. Here as per
the procedural law the trial court shall presume the accused guilty of

the offence he is facing trial, unless disproved by him.

Section 4 of the Indian Evidence Act 1872 defines the term “shall
Presume” as follows :- Whenever it is directed by this act that the court
shall presume a fact, it shall regard such fact as proved, unless and

until it is disproved.

Now, behind this background, we have to come to a conclusion in this

case.
Direct Evidence:

7. In this case the alleged victim was examined as PW 1 and she in her
evidence deposed that she knows the accused as he is the son of her father’s
friend. That, the accused used to come to their house. That, from 2013 the
incident started. That, at that time she was reading in class- X. That, at the night
of the incident while she was studying, accused came to their house. On that day

accused stayed in their house. On that night accused came to her bed and raped
Page 4 of 13

her. That, accused asked her not tell it to anybody and also told her that if she
tells it, then he will assault her. That, again accused committed the same action
in the month of ‘Aghun’. That, she objected but accused did not listen to it. That,
while she was five months pregnant her aunt Mini Phukan knowing about the
incident called for a meeting. That, she became pregnant due to the accused. In
the meeting it was decided that she will be handed over to the accused. That,
her family members went to hand over her to the accused but the sister-in-law of
the accused threatened them. That, she was examined by doctor and her

statement was recorded before the Magistrate.

8. In the cross-examination this PW deposed that the accused from the
month of ‘Aghun’ 2013 used to come to their house. That, she and her sister
used to sleep together after closing the door, and then none can open it from

outside.

9. I have considered the evidence of this vital PW and found that her
evidence is clear and specific that, accused had, one night in the year 2013,
entered into her living room and thereafter, had raped her. Further, the evidence
of this PW is also clear that she became pregnant due to her physical relation
with the accused. Another vital aspect revealed through the evidence of the PW
1 is that at the time of the incident she was reading in class X. I have considered
the cross-examination portion of the PW 1 and found that the cross-examination
failed to yield anything which may straightaway negates the evidence of the
alleged victim/PW 1.

Other material witness :

10. The PW 2 is the informant of this case. He in evidence deposed that,
Pompi Phukan is his daughter. That, the incident occurred on the month of last
“Aghon”. That, at that time Pompi was 16 years old. That, when the abdomen of
Pompi became big in size, then the local ladies asked the matter to her and then
she told that accused committed misdeed with her. That, when village people
asked the matter to the accused, then he consented to take Pompi. That, later
on the girl was not accepted for which he lodged the ‘ejahar’. That, after 4

months she gave birth to a child.
Page 5 of 13

In the cross examination this P.W deposed that, after 5 months
pregnancy of his daughter, he came to know about the incident. That, no
document concerning the age of the girl has been placed. That, Pompi and her
sister sleeps together. That, they used to lock the door of their room. That, in

the Ejahar he mentioned that the incident occurred 5 months ago.

11. I have considered the evidence of the P.W2/ father of the alleged victim
of this case and found that the P.W2 has corroborated the ‘Ejahar’ he lodged.
The P.W2 being one of the material witnesses supported the evidence of the
P.W1/victim of this case. The crux of the evidence of the P.W2 is that his
daughter became pregnant and when ladies of their locality asked his daughter
about the matter, it was told by his daughter that, she became pregnant due to
the action of the accused. This P.W2 has been reported about the incident.
Although the P.W2 has been reported about the alleged incident but his evidence
corroborated the evidence of the alleged victim/P.W1. Further the evidence of
the P.W2 that alleged victim gave birth to a child has also supported the case of
the prosecution. The cross examination of this P.W failed to bring out anything to

negate the examination in chief of the P.W2 at its first look

12. PW 3 /.e. the mother of the alleged victim in her evidence deposed that
the incident occurred one year ago. That, the accused used to come to their
house in order to help them in cultivation. That, he stayed in their house for
some days. That, after five months the local ladies group asked “A” as to
whether she is pregnant and then “A” told that accused caused her pregnant and
she is five months pregnant. That, accused also admitted that fact and stated
that he will marry “A”. That, accused remained untraced thereafter. That,
members of local ladies group went to the house of the accused in order to
handover “A” but did not find the accused. That, they informed police as “A” was

not accepted.

In the cross-examination this PW deposed that accused came to their
house in the midst of the month of ‘Aghun’. That, she keeps herself informed

about the menstrual period of “A”.

13. I have considered the evidence of this PW who is also one of the material

witnesses of this case being the mother of the alleged victim. She also like her
Page 6 of 13

husband/PW 2 corroborated the evidence of the alleged victim although; she has

also been reported about the incident.

14. PW 4 in her evidence deposed that in the year 2014 when she noticed

about the pregnancy of “A” then she and other member of their ‘Mohila Samity

asked her and then it was replied that she became pregnant due to the accused.

In cross-examination this PW deposed that it is not a fact that “A” did not
tell them that she became pregnant for the accused rather name of some other

person was told.

15. PW 5 in her evidence deposed that in the year 2014 ladies of their village
were reported by Bibi Phukan about the pregnancy of “A” and when they asked
her mother she told that she became pregnant due to Jay Chandra Gogoi. They
called the accused and interrogated him and as no decision was reached the

matter was informed to police station.

In the cross-examination this PW deposed that she did not tell police that
Bibi Phukan informed them about the incident and “A” did not tell that she

became pregnant from the side of the accused.

16. PW 7 in his evidence deposed that he does not know “A”. That on 16-04-

2014 one Phuleswar Konwar caused him to write an FIR.

17. I have considered the evidence of material witnesses of this case. Here
PW 2, PW 3 are parents of the alleged victim of this case /.e. PW 1. The evidence
of the PW 2 /e. father of the alleged victim clarifies that the alleged victim gave
birth to a child after four months. Here the PW 3 is the mother of the alleged
victim. The PW 2 & PW 3 was reported about the incident and they both
supported the evidence of PW 1/alleged victim. The PW 3, PW 4 & PW 5 are
independent witnesses and they have supported the evidence of PW 1/alleged
victim and the case of the prosecution to the extent that they were reported by
the alleged victim, when asked, that accused caused her pregnant. The evidence
of these independent witnesses also supported the case of the prosecution.
Another vital evidence yielded from PW 3, PW 4 & PW 5 is that at the time when
they asked the alleged victim about the incident they noticed physical
transformation of the victim. Here these three independent witnesses have

firsthand knowledge about the pregnancy of the alleged victim. I have
Page 7 of 13

considered the cross-examination portion of these witnesses and found nothing

which may make the case of the prosecution, discardable.
Medical Evidence :

18. In this case the PW 9 is the doctor who examined the alleged victim. In
his evidence the PW 9 deposed that on 17-04-2014 he was working at Sonari
Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital as Medical and Health Officer -1. On that day at
about 1:30 pm on police requisition he examined Miss “A”, daughter of Tuleswar
Phukan of Rahan Deodhaichuk in connection with Sapekhati P.S. case no. 19/14.
That, the victim was accompanied by WPC Mrs. Rina Phukan. This PW also
deposed that on examination he found that the hymen was ruptured and the
uterus was six months size. That, ultrasonography reveals that there is a single
life 26 weeks 4 days in vertex presentation. This PW in his opinion mentioned
that there is no evidence of recent sexual intercourse. That, radiological
examination refused by the party. This PW also deposed that according to her

statement and body configuration she is approximately 16 years old.

In the cross-examination this PW deposed that pregnancy can be
detected only after one month of cohabitation. That, pregnancy period is

calculated on the basis of stoppage of first day of stoppage of mensuration cycle.

19. The medical evidence clearly supported the case of the prosecution. The
examination of PW 9 yielded that at the time of the examination the alleged

victim she was 16 years old, carrying 26 weeks 4 days pregnancy.

20. The cross-examination of the PW 9 failed to bring out anything specific
against the medical evidence, rather it was clarified that he calculated the

pregnancy period on the basis of stoppage of mensuration cycle.

21. I have carefully scrutinized the evidences of both the I.0.s 4e. PW 5 and
PW 8.

22. If we carefully scrutinize evidences on record then we will find the

following points —

a) The evidence of the alleged victim is clear and specific that accused used

to come to their house and one night in the year 2013 raped here. The
Page 8 of 13

evidence of the PW 1 also clarifies that at a later stage again accused

established sexual relation with her.

b) The most material witnesses of this case /.e. parents of the victim as PW

2 & 3 supported the evidence of the PW 1 /e. alleged victim.

c) The evidence of the father of the alleged victim/PW 2 reveals that the
alleged victim gave birth to a child after 4 months from the date of

detection of the incident.

d) Independent material witnesses noticed physical transformation of the

alleged victim concerning her pregnancy.

e) When independent witnesses asked the victim girl about her pregnancy,

she told them, that accused caused her pregnancy.
f) The medical evidence also supported the case of the prosecution.

g) Medical evidence established that alleged victim is 16 years old, and is a

minor one.

h) Medical evidence also reveals that at the time of her examination she was

26.4 weeks pregnant.

i) Cross-examination portion failed to bring out anything which may create

doubt over the prosecution case.

23. If we consider above mentioned points then we will find that the
prosecution has proved the case against the accused in regards to the points for
determination. As mentioned in the beginning sec. 29 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 makes it mandatory to concerning trial
courts to presume that any person prosecuted for
committing/abetting/attempting to commit any offence concerning sec. 3,5,7 &9
of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has
committed/abated/attempted to commit such offence, unless the contrary is

proved.

24. At this stage behind the background of already discussed prosecution
witnesses and sec. 29 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, let

us now discuss the position as to whether the accused could disprove the
Page 9 of 13

prosecution case. Here the accused did not adduce any evidence. It is their case
that if accused has committed rape upon the alleged victim in the month of
‘Aghun’, 2013 then how the alleged victim can carry pregnancy of 26 weeks 4

days which was detected at the time of her medical examination on 17-04-2014.

25) I have considered cross-examination portions of PWs keeping in mind
whether cross-examination of PWs has disproved the case of the prosecution.
The scrutiny of the cross-examination of PWs will show that nothing significant
has been yielded through cross-examination of PWs which may either raise doubt

over the prosecution case or negates it completely.

26. Considering the point placed during argument that how the alleged victim
can carry 26 weeks 4 days pregnancy on 17-04-2014 if the accused raped her in
the month of ‘Aghun’, 2013, I have scrutinized materials on record. The evidence
of PW 1 reveals that the first incident took place in the month of ‘Aghun’, 2013.
According to the medical evidence on 17-04-2014 alleged victim was detected
with 26 weeks 4 days pregnancy. Here the evidence of the alleged victim is
specific concerning the position that accused had raped her. This part of
evidence cannot be doubted on the basis of the expert opinion that on 17-04-
2014 alleged victim was 26 weeks 4 days pregnancy, when the medical evidence
itself clarified that pregnancy was calculated on the basis of stoppage of
mensuration cycle. Now if physical relation was started in the year 2013 between
the accused and the alleged victim and for that the victim became pregnant then
mathematical calculation on the basis of stoppage time of mensuration,
concerning the period of pregnancy cannot bring any doubt regarding the factual
establishment that physical relation occurred between them and then alleged
victim became pregnant. It is not the case that we should discard evidence of the
alleged victim and other supporting evidence on the basis of the expert opinion
and on the basis of mathematical calculation of the period from sexual
intercourse to pregnancy. Here the first hand evidence of the alleged victim is
more concrete then medical opinion. In State of Haryana vs. Bhagirath AIR
1997 SC 715 the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that the opinion given by a
medical witness need not be the last word on the subject. Such opinion should
be tested by the court. If the opinion is bereft of logic or objectivity, court is not

obliged to go by that opinion.
Page 10 of 13

In this case the medical opinion about the duration of pregnancy of the
alleged victim cannot be the last word of this case to play the role of a catalyst to

negate the entire specific direct evidence.

27. Except this point nothing specific has been raised before court.
Considering cross-examination of PWs and the point discussed above, this court

is with the opinion that the accused failed to disprove the prosecution case.

28. — The position of evidence yielded from the cross-examination of PW 1 that
she used to sleep with her sister keeping the door closed of her room, cannot
negate/disprove the specific evidence of the PW 1/alleged victim that accused
raped her, on the particular day as this portion of evidence is a general
statement and it failed to establish that on the night of occurrence the sister of
the alleged victim was present at the place of occurrence and due to closure of

the door, accused failed to enter the concerned room to commit the crime.

Another vital aspect I have considered that, materials on record which
includes the oral evidence of PW 1, 2 & 3 and medical evidence proves that the
alleged victim was 16 years old at the time of the incident. Here the accused

failed to disprove that alleged victim was a minor at the time of the incident.

29. I have considered the specific and straight evidence of the victim which
has been supported by other witnesses including the medical evidence. At the
same time I have considered cross-examination of PWs. Considering the position
of the evidence of the alleged victim and the particular evidence that the victim
gave birth to a child, this court did not find anything to disbelieve the case of the
prosecution, particularly on the point as to why the alleged victim after giving

birth to a child will falsely implicate the accused.
FINDINGS

30. By now the position of this case is clear that, accused has committed
offence under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
2012 as, in opinion of this court, prosecution has proved this case against the
accused U/S 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. Accordingly, the accused Sri Jay Chandra
Gogoi is here by convicted under section 6 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012. I have considered the point as to whether the convict

can be released under section 360 Cr.P.C or any other relevant law. In this
Page 11 of 13

regard record shows that convict is 38 years old and is running the family
consisting his wife. I have considered those factors along with the position that
accused caused rape on the alleged victim and gave birth to a child and
abandoned him prior to his birth and also let the mother to suffer. Raping of a
minor/abandoning of the mother and the child, under the facts of this case,
cannot be compared with any beneficial factor which may favor for release of an
accused, unpunished. Here, I have considered the age of the accused and found
that, he is bound to be a mature person and is not a youth, having ignorant of
the consequence of his action. The facts and circumstances of this case failed to

bring anything which may require this court to release the accused, unpunished.

31. Heard the accused on the point of sentence. During sentence hearing the
accused mentioned that, he has nothing to say. I have considered all aspects of
this case, the facts and circumstances of the crime, the possible outcome of the
crime and is with the opinion that, accused is liable for adequate punishment and

is not entitled for any lighter punishment.

32. In Alister Anthony Pareira V/S State of Maharastra : 2012 (2)
SCC_272: the _Hon‘ble Supreme Court held that, Sentencing fs_an
Important task in the matters of crime. One of the prime objectives of
the criminal law Is imposition of (an) appropriate, adequate, just and
proportionate sentence commensurate with the nature and gravity of
the_crime_and the manner _in_ which the crime is done. There is _no
straitjacket formula for sentencing an accused on proof of crime. The
courts have evolved certain principles: the twin objectives of
sentencing policy is deterrent_and correction. What sentence would
meet the ends of justice depends on the facts and circumstances of
each case and the court must keep in mind the gravity of the crime,

motive for _ crime, nature of the offence and all other attendant

 

circumstances.

33) Here in this case, considering the facts and circumstances, this court is of
the opinion that, convict may not be inflicted with the maximum prescribed
punishment for offence under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual

Offences Act, 2012, but a little bit lesser punishment will do Justice.
Page 12 of 13

34. Accordingly, the convict Sri Jay Chandra Gogoi is sentenced to undergo
Rigorous imprisonment for a period of 10 (ten) years and to pay a fine of Rupees
5,000/- (five thousand only) in default S.I. for one month under section 6 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

35 The period of detention already undergone by the accused/convict, during

investigation and trial may be set off u/s 428 Cr.P.C.
36. Seized article, if any, will be destroyed in due course of time.
37. Furnish a copy of judgment to the convict at free of cost u/s 363 Cr.P.C.

38. Send a copy of this judgment and order to the learned District Magistrate,

Charaideo as per provision of sec. 365 Cr.P.C.
39. Issue jail warrant.
40. Convict is remanded to custody to serve out the sentence.

41. It is made clear to the convict that judgment and order is appealable and

he may prefer appeal before the Hon’ble Gauhati High Court, if he so desires.

42. Considering evidences on record, as the children and the mother (alleged
victim) surely requires rehabilitation, this court, here by recommend the case of
the alleged victim to the District Legal Services Authority, Sivasagar, for providing

Compensation to them, under Victim Compensation scheme U/S 357(A) Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 26 day of April, 2019.

(S. I. Rahman)
Additional Sessions Judge : Sonari
Charaideo
Page 13 of 13

Appendix

Prosecution Witnesses.

Sl. 1---- Prosecution Witness 1 --- Pompy Phukan

Sl. 2---- Prosecution Witness 2 --- Tuleswar Phukan

Sl. 3---- Prosecution Witness 3 --- Smti. Bhabani Phukan
Sl. 4---- Prosecution Witness 4 --- Smti. Bibi Phukan

Sl. 5---- Prosecution Witness 5 --- Smti. Monomoti Phukan
Sl. 6---- Prosecution Witness 6 --- Dilip Kr. Chutia

Sl. 7---- Prosecution Witness 7 --- Girish Kakoty

Sl. 8---- Prosecution Witness 8 --- Dwipen Pator

SI. 9---- Prosecution Witness 9 --- Hemanta Kr. Shyam

Prosecution Exhibits. Exhibit 1. Statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Exhibit 1(1) & 1(2) signatures of the PW 1.

Exhibit 2 FIR.
Exhibit 2(1) signature of the PW 2.
Exhibit 2(3) signature of the PW 7.

Exhibit 3 Sketch map.
Exhibit 3(1) signature of PW 6.

Exhibit 4 Charge-sheet.
Exhibit 4(1) signature of PW 8.

Exhibit 5 Medical report.
Exhibit 5(1) signature of PW 9.

Defence witness.
Nil

Defence Exhibit.
Nil

(S. I. Rahman)
Additional Sessions Judge : Sonari
Charaideo
