Page 1 of 7

Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2017
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FIC, BISWANATH CHARIALI,

SONITPUR, ASSAM

Sp! POCSO Case No. 14/2017
u/Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

 

State of Assam
-VS-
Sri Papu Khasta

venees Accused person

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Special Judge,

Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Advocates Appeared:-
For the prosecution: Ms. J. Kalita, learned Addl. P.P
’. Forthe defence — : Mr. T. Ahmed, learned Legal Aid Counsel.

Dates of recording Evidence: 01.10.2018, 07.01.2019, 21.01.2019, 02.03.2019,
03.06.2019, 01.07.2019, 29.07.2019.

Date of Argument : 04.09.2019.

Date of Judgment : 18.09.2019.

 

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 30.06.2017 the informant namely, Sri Ranjit
Ghatowar lodged an FIR with the OC, Gohpur stating inter alia that on 29.06.2017 at about
12.30 PM, the accused Papu Khasta took his minor daughter (name is withheld) to his
house and committed rape on her for which his daughter has been undergoing medical

treatment at Gohpur Civil Hospital.
2. Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After
investigation, the police submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act,

a 2012. |

ae \ . 3. The accused who was arrested during the investigation of the case was produced before this
“court to face trial after submission of charge sheet. As the accused expressed his inability
to engage a counsel of his choice to defend him, the learned legal aid counsel was
appointed to defend him at the expense of the state. He was furnished with the copies of
the relevant documents. Upon hearing both the sides on the point of charge, taking note of
the materials furnished u/s 173 CrPC, as this court found grounds for presuming that the
Page 2 of 7

Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2017
accused had committed an offence u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012, the charge was

accordingly framed against him, which on being read over and explained, the accused
pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial, the prosecution examined eleven witnesses in all. The accused was thereafter
examined u/s 313 CrPC. His plea was total denial. He refused to adduce any evidence on
his behalf. The case was thereafter, argued by both the sides.

Points for determination
Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim, who is below the age of 18 years?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

5. PW 1 is the informant, Ranjit Ghatowar. He stated that about a year back, his 9-year-old
daughter was taken by the accused on his bicycle from his home. According to him, the
accused used to regularly visit his house. On that day after he had gone for his work, the
Fc accused came and took his daughter on his bicycle to the center. Later, when he returned
from his work place at about 8 PM, upon asking her mother, he could learn.from her that
the accused had taken his daughter with him. At about 10 PM, the accused brought back
his daughter. The accused was under the influence of alcohol and both of them had stains
eee of mud on them. It was raining then. His daughter was washed by her mother. While
: washing her, her mother noticed blood oozing from her passage of urination. He was called
by her mother and shown the injury mark on the victim's body. He soon taken the victim to
the Gohpur Civil Hospital and from that place he took her to the Tezpur Medical College
and Hospital, where the victim was medically treated for about 15 days. He stated that the
accused on that day had left their house after leaving their daughter at home. Later, after
the doctor had advised them, he lodged the FIR with the Gohpur Police Station on the

same night. He proved the FIR as Ext. 1.
6. In his cross, the PW 1 stated that after returning back to her house, the victim did not speak

anything about the occurrence as according to him, the accused had threatened her. He

J ke further stated that the police did not seize the blood stained clothes of the victim as her
i vo - \e) | mother had already washed her clothes. PW 1 further stated in his cross as it was raining
MY on™ ~ on that night and therefore mud developed all around. He stated that the accused used to

take her out earlier but he did not commit any such incident before. He however, stated

ro that he had lodged the FIR on presumption and he did not interrogate his daughter-the

victim. He denied to the suggestion that the victim sustained injury by falling from bicycle
due to the mud.
7. When we examine the evidence of PW 1 along with the FIR- the Ext. 1, we find that in the
Page 3 of 7

Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2017
FIR the informant had alleged that the accused had taken his daughter to his house at

about 12.30 PM and committed rape on her. Further, his evidence shows that his daughter
was returned back by the accused at 10 PM and then she did not speak anything about the
incident, either to her mother or to her father. It was after, her mother had noticed marks
of blood on her private part that her mother informed about the same to him. His evidence
further discloses that it was only after the doctor had asked him to lodge an FIR that he
lodged the same. His evidence does not disclose anything that shows that the victim had
informed him or her mother that the accused had committed rape on her. Contrarily, he
stated that he lodged the FIR against the accused only on presumption.

8. PW 7- the victim stated that she was 8 years old. According to her, the incident took place

about 2 months back. Around noon on that day, when she was playing in her house, the

a accused came and took her for an outing. According to her, she was taken far away on his

~ bicycle and thereafter, she was asked to go by foot. She was taken to a field and after

disrobing her, she was led to sleep on the ground by the accused. She stated that when
she asked the accused as to what he has been doing, he stated that he is not doing
anything to her. According to her, the accused inserted one of his fingers on her passage of
urination. As she cried, tiie accused pressed her neck and asked her as to whether she
wants to die or go to hur house. The accused thereafter, inserted two of his fingers but
again when she cried, he left her. The accused took her to her house and as she had mud
on her body, she was washed by her mother, who then saw blood marks on her private
part. Her mother at first thought that the said injury may have been caused by leech. She
then told her mother about the incident and her father was hearing her at that relevant
time. Her father thereaficr, went out in search of the accused. He thereafter took her for
medical treatment. She was studying in Class-III at that relevant time. In her cross, she
stated that the accused used to take her out earlier. On that day, while returning, they
entered into the house of PW 5- Munu Tanti who changed her dress and made her to wear
her son's clothes. She thicin did not reveal about the incident to PW 5. From that place, the

accused took her to her jiouse. She also stated that her father does not like the accused.

9. When we scrutinize the evidence of the victim along with the evidence of PW 1 and the
3 ~£xt.1, we find that PW 1 had stated that her daughter had mud stains when she returned

to their house on that night as it was raining outside. PW 7, the victim on the other hand
stated that her clothes were changed on the mid-way in the house of PW 5 and made her
to wear boy's clothes aid at that time she did not reveal about the incident to PW 5.
According to PW1, Ext. 1 was lodged only after the medical officer examining the victim
asked the PW 1 to lodge an FIR. The time period from the victim returning to her house to
the relevant time at whi. the victim was examined by the doctor was considerably long

and the accordiig to P\./7, she had narrated about the incident to her mother and her
10.

Page 4 of 7

Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2017
father was hearing then. But the Ext. 1 on the contrary to the version of PW7 alleged that

the victim was taken from their house by the accused to his house where he had
committed rape on her. PW 7, the victim as noted above discloses nothing like the victim
being taken by the accused to his house or she was committed rape by the accused there.
Instead, the victim deposed that the accused had fingered her private parts by taking her
to a distant field. Had the accused committed the offence in the manner as narrated by PW
7, the Ext. 1 would have definitely reflected that she was taken by the accused to a field
where in he had fingered her private parts and not as what we find to have been disclosed
by the Ext. 1.

PW 8 the Medical Officer, Dr. Gitumoni Sonuwal proving the medical examination report of
the victim as Ext. 2 stated that on 03.07.2017 she had examined the victim with regard to
the instant case. According to her, evidence of forceful penetration is present on the

person of the victim but according to her, it does not mean sexual intercourse. No injuries

’ were detected on the other parts of the body of the victim. In her cross examination, she

11.

stated she had conducted the examination of the victim with reference to GD Entry No. 615
but she had not mentioned the date on her report. She stated that she found tear of the
hymen which admits tip of the little finger. She further stated in her cross that she did not
mention anything about swelling, internal bleeding on the private part of the victim. She
had also has not mentioned about the age of the injury of the victim. According to her, the
injury she had found in the private part of the victim may also be caused by insertion of
any sharp object in the private part of the victim and injury may also be caused by falling
on a sharp substance. The evidence of PW 8, therefore does not conclusively establish that
the injury the victim sustained on her private part can only be caused by fingering and not
by falling over a sharp object.

PW 5, Smti Munu Tanti corroborating the victim- PW 7 stated that both the accused and
the victim came to her house at about 8.30 PM and both of them were drenched with mud.
The girl was trembling due to cold and they told her that they fell into mud. She then
changed the clothes of the victim. The accused had told her that he had taken the victim

. to his sister's house that the victim then did not state anything to her about the incident. In

“her cross, she stated that she did not notice any unnatural behaviour on the part of the

12.

accused and the victim. The accused took the victim with him telling her that he would
leave her at her father's house.

The evidence of PW 5, therefore shows that both the accused and victim fell on mud on
that night. We do not find anything in her evidence which makes her unreliable. Further,
we do not find any reason to disbelieve her testimony. It therefore find that the possibility
of the victim falling on mud and sustaining injury on her private part due to such fall

cannot be ruled out more so when we do not find any cohesive and inspiring evidence to
13.

14.

15.

16.

47,

18.

Page 5 of 7

Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2017
show that the injuries found on the private part of the victim was result of fingering by the

accused.

PW 2, Bhagat Majhi stated that on the day of the incident the accused had taken his
bicycle from him and thereafter, at night, he returned back and slept with him. On the
same night, the informant, Ranjit Ghatowar came and slapped the accused. He then could
learn that the accused had done something wrong with the daughter of the informant.
Later police called him and returned back his bicycle. He went along with the informant to
the place of occurrence which according to him was a field. In his cross, he stated that he
has no personal knowledge about the said incident.

PW 3, Smti Maina Majhi stated that about 1 and 1/2 years back, the accused took launch
at her house and thereafter, he went out with the victim, who was 7 years old to an
unknown place. Later, she heard that the informant had assaulted the accused as he had

taken away his daughter with him. Later, according to her, the informant had lodged an FIR

‘alleging that the accused had kidnapped his daughter. She heard that the victim had

sustained crack injury on the place of her urination. In her cross, she stated that she has
no knowledge about the said occurrence. She also stated that the victim used to go out
with the accused earlier.

PW 4, Astami Gowala had heard that the accused had committed rape on the victim. She
does not know anything about any injury sustained by the victim.

PW 6, Sanjeeb Tanti is the husband of PW 5, Munu Tanti who corroborated PW 5 and
stated that both the accused and the victim came to their house on that night at about
8.30 PM. Both of them were drenched in rain and his wife changed the clothes of the
victim. The accused thereafter, took her back to her father's house. They told him that both
of them had come from a place named Khabagaja. The accused left his bicycle in their
house but on the next day, some other person had taken back the bicycle from their house.
He did not notice any unnatural behaviour of the victim at that relevant time. He stated

that the accused had taken back the victim apprehending that the parents of the victim

- would rebuke him.

The case has been investigated by three Investigating Officers, namely, PW 9, Sukleswar
Deka, PW 10, Indreswar Gogoi and PW 11, Md. Abdul Matleb Choudhury. PW9 in his cross
examination stated that the investigation started on the basis of GD Entry made in that
regard. He further stated that after receiving the 'Ejahar' on the next day, another GD
Entry was made which according to him is required to be entered after receiving an FIR.
He stated that the first GD Entry was 615 dated 29.06.2017. He has not collected any
document with regard to the medical examination conducted on the victim at Gohpur. He
has not seize any garments of the victim as her garments were already washed by then.

PW 10 could not collect the medical examination of the victim though he approached
19.

20.

21.

Page 6 of 7

Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2017
Tezpur Medical College and Hospital. He was told that the victim had to be brought again

as they had lost the report. The victim could not be taken again by him for medical
examination as he had already been transferred.

PW 11 stated in his cross that he had collected the medical examination report of the
victim from Tezpur and not from Gohpur. He collected the medical report from Tezpur on
21.06.2018. After completion of investigation, he submitted charge sheet against the
accused, which he proved as Ext. 6.

When we scrutinize the evidence of PW 9, PW 10 and PW 11, we find that none of said
witnesses had collected any report with regard to the examination of the victim, which was

_ first conducted at Tezpur. PW 10 stated that he could not collect medical examination

report of the victim from Tezpur Medical College and Hospital as he was told that they have
lodged the same and therefore, they required the victim for re-examination. Evidence of
PW 11, shows that he had collected the medical examination report of the victim but there
is no evidence which shows that the victim was reexamined as was stated by PW 10. All
these make the evidence that emanated with regard to the Ext. 2 becomes doubtful more
so when, we find that PW 8 did not mention the date of the GD Entry No. 615, which
according to PW 9 was the first GD Entry No. entered with regard to the incident. On the
other hand, it was pointed out by the defence that the FIR Form noted the GD Entry no. as
625 dated 30.06.2017 and not as 615. Further, we find that the mother of the victim was
not examined by the prosecution, who according to PW7 first detected the injury and
thought it to be caused by leech.
All the discrepancies and inconsistencies in evidence that have emanated, as noticed
above, go to show that the prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused
beyond reasonable doubt. As such, I acquit the accused from the offence charged against
him on benefit of doubt and set him at liberty forthwith. As the accused has faced trial by
remaining in custody, the Jail authority be directed to release the accused immediately, if
he is not required in any other case. The seized articles be restored on the owner in due
course. A copy of the judgment be forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in
compliance with the sec. 365 Cr.P.C. The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 18th day of September,

2019.

}

Ea
(D. BORA)

Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.
Page 7 of 7
Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2017
ANNEXURE
Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Sri Ranjit Ghatowar
PW2- Sri Bhagat Majhi
PW3- Smti Maina Majhi
PW4- Smti Astami Gowala
PW5- Smti Mumnu Tanti
PW6- Sri Sanjeeb Tanti
PW7- Victim
PW8- Dr. Gitumani Sonowal (M.O.)
PW9- Sri Subaleswar Deka (1.0.)
PW10- Sri Indreswar Gogoi (1.0.)
PW11- Md. Abdul Motalib Choudhury (1.0.)

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Exhibit-1: Ejahar

Exhibit-2: Injury Report

Exhibit-3: Seizure List

Exhibit-4: Seizure List

Exhibit-5: Sketch map

Exhibit-6: Charge sheet

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

None.
