IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, BAJALI,
PATHSALA

Spl. POCSO Case No. 12 of 2018
U/S - 366 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

State
- Versus -

Saiful Islam
: Accused person.

Present :

Sri L.K. Saikia, AJS.
Additional Sessions Judge, Bajali, Pathsala.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Smti. Dhira Devi Ld. Addl. P. PB.

For the accused persons : Mr. Abdul Kayam. Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidences : 0O1-10-18, 11-10-18, 08-11-18,
29-11-18, 28-02-19, 25-03-19,
24-06-19

Date of recording statements u/s 313 Cr.P.C. : 30-08-2019.

Date of Argument : 14-10-2019 and 21-11-2019.

Date of Judgment : 30-11-2019.

J} UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that, one Abdul Rezzak
lodged an ejahar on 06-04-2018 with the In-Charge, Bhawanipur Police
Out Post alleging, /nteralia, that on 05-04-18 at about 10 pm his
daughter and niece were missing from their respective houses. On their

Page 1 of 35
searched they found both the girls on 06-04-2018 at Rajakhat chowk
and while they asked, they came to know that accused persons took
away and after giving assurance for marriage, they committed physical
relation with them. Hence, this case.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, Sarupeta OP registered a GD
Entry No. 103 dated 06-04-2018 and forwarded the same to Barpeta
Police Station to register a case under proper section of law and
accordingly it was registered as Barpeta P. S. Case No. 718/18 u/s 366-
A/34 IPC r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act.

3 During investigation police visited the place of
occurrence, recorded the statements of witnesses including the victim
girl, sent them for medical examination, produced both the victims
before the Court wherein the Ld. Magistrate recorded their statements
u/s 164 Cr.P.C, arrested the accused persons and and forwarded them
to to the court and after completion of investigation, having been
found prima-facie case, the I/O sent up the accused for trial by filing
charge sheet u/s 366-A/34 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012. During
the course of investigation it comes to light that accused Habibul
Haque is a juvenile, as such, he was sent to face trial before the
Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Barpeta.

4. The accused was produced from jail hajot for trial and the
copies were furnished to him. After hearing the learned Addl. P. P.
appearing for the State and the learned defence counsel and on
perusal of materials available on record u/s 173 Cr.P.C., having been
found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person has
committed the offence, framed charge under section 366 IPC and 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012 and the accusation of charges were read over and
explained to him, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried. Hence, the trial.

5. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined
altogether 9 (nine) PWs including M.O. and I/O. The defence plea is of
total denial. The accused person was examined u/s 313 of Cr. P. C.

Page 2 of 35
wherein he denied all such allegations levelled against him by the
prosecution witnesses. The defence side took full scope of cross-
examination of Pws. The defence side has not adduced any defence
evidence to disprove his case.

6. Heard argument of learned Addl. P. P. and the learned
defence counsel. Perused the record.

7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person 05-04-2018 at night about 10
p.m. at Madhya Datirbari village of Bhabanipur Out Post under
PS. and district Barpeta kidnapped a minor girl with intent to
marry her against her will and that thereby committed the
offence punishable u/s 366 IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same, date, time and
place, committed penetrative sexual assault upon the minor
daughter of the informant and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012?

Evidence of witnesses

8. PW - 1 victim (herein after referred to as “X”) deposed
that on 05-04-2018 at night about 10 pm while she was in her house
then accused Saiful Islam rang to her over phone and called her to
come out from the house to meet him. She came out from the house
and met him. She also found “A” (name withheld as she is also a
victim) and accused Habibul Hauge on the road. Thereafter, accused
caught her hand and brought her to nearby bush of bamboo which is
100 meters far away from her house. At first he told her that he would
marry her and then forcefully did sexual intercourse with her near the
bush of the bamboo. In the meantime, “A” again came and told her that

Page 3 of 35
she was raped by Habibul Haque. Thereafter, accused Hbibul brought
them to Balapara in an isolated place and left them there. After that
she and “A” came to Rajakhat on foot and they met their father there.
She explained the entire incident of occurrence on the last night to
their fathers. Then he brought them to Bhawanipur OP and lodged the
FIR. She also stated that they were brought to FAAMCH, Barpeta for
medical examination and accordingly their medical examination had
been conducted. She was also produced before the Court wherein the
learned Magistrate had recorded her statement. Ext. 1 is the statement
and Ext. 1(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination, PW 1 stated that her father had
produced her birth certificate to the police. While their statements
were recorded by the police, they are in their uniform. She stated
before the police that she knew accused Saiful since 1 % years back.
She had love affair with accused Saiful. She used the mobile handset of
her father wherein accused rang to her. She met Phulbhanu at the
time of occurrence. PW 1 also stated that her mother, father and
younger brother were in the house while the accused Saiful called her
over phone. She did not raise any hue and cry while the accused Saiful
did sexual intercourse with her. They reached Balapara at about 3.30
am but they do not know the distance between Balapara to bamboo
bushes. On the way, they did not make hue and cry or ask anybody to
help. While she and “A” went to Balapara then the mobile phone were
with them but they did not make any phone call to their parents. PW 1
stated that she stated before the Magistrate that on the way they met
Saiful and Habibul and then they dragged them nearby forest. She also
stated that she stated before the Magistrate that she called her father
over phone from the mobile phone of an unknown boy to take them
back home. She stated before the police that the accused Saiful did
forceful intercourse on her near their bamboo bush. PW 1 denied the
suggestion that the doctor told her that she attained above 18 years at
the time of examination. It is also denied by her that accused Saiful did
not called her or take her to the bamboo bush and committed sexual

Page 4 of 35
intercourse forcefully with her.

9. PW - 2 Abdul Razzzak deposed that the victim is his
daughter. At the time of occurrence the victim was reading in class X
and she was 15 years old. He does not know the accused _ standing in
the dock. he also know another victim who is a daughter of Hatem Ali.
On 05-04-2018 at about 10/10.30 pm his daughter as well as victim
was found missing in the house. Though they searched his daughter
but could not trace her where abouts. At the time of searching he
came to know that another minor girl who is a daughter of Hatem Ali
as well as friend of his daughter, had also been missing. They could
not trace out both the girls even on the next date also. On the next
day of the occurrence, in the afternoon, he received a phone from an
unknown person of Rajakhat informing that they recovered his
daughter and the another girl so, asked him to go there to take them
back. Immediately he along with Hatem Ali came to Rajakhat and
found both the girls there and on being asked, both the girls told them
that one Saiful Islam and one boy called them over phone to come out
from the house. Further they told him that at the request of Saiful
Islam and another body they both of them came out from the house
and then and met Saiful Islam and another boy on the road and
thereafter, they brought them near the bushes of bamboo and raped
by both the boys. Hearing the allegations from both the girls they
brought them to Bhabanipur Police Out Post and he lodged the ejahar.
Ext. 2 is the ejahar and Ext. 2(i) is his signature. Both the victim girls
were brought to FAAMCH, Barpeta wherein they were medically
examined and thereafter they were taken to Bajali Court wherein their
statements were recorded before the Magistrate. The police had
recorded his statement and seized the birth certificate of his daughter
and the another victim girl/”A”. Ext. 3 is the seizure list and Ext. 3 (i) is
his signature. The birth certificate of the victims were given zimma to
them and he brought the original birth certificate of his daughter as
per direction of Court on the day of recoding his evidence before the
Court. Material Ext. 1 (proved in original) is the birth certificate of his

Page 5 of 35
daughter.

In his cross-examination, PW 2 deposed that the ejahar
was written by one person at Bhabanipur Out Post as per his version.
He has forgotten the name of the scriber of the ejahar. Before writing
the ejahar he asked his daughter of the facts of the case. There was
male and female police personnel while victim girls were brought
there. The In-Charge of the Bhabanipur Out Post took statements of
the victim girls, police were in their uniform. The police personnel did
not seize the any cloth or article from the victims on that they. He has
seven children. The victim was born in his house not in hospital. He
has not produced the school certificate of his daughter with the ejahar.
The birth certificate of his daughter was issued in the year 2015. He
had filed an affidavit to obtain the birth certificate of the victim. He
obtained birth certificate of his 3 children. The certificate was issued
by the Bhabanipur PHC. PW2 denied to the suggestion that Material
Ext. 1 has been obtained on false contention in the affidavit. PW2
denied the suggestion that at the time of occurrence the victim was
above 18 years. PW2 denied the suggestion that he intentionally did
not produce the school certificate of the victim girl on being she is
above 18 years. At the time of occurrence his daughter have mobile
handset in her name. He came to know that the daughter of Hatem Ali
had also mobile phone. The victims did not rang to them after the
occurrence. One Jalal of Rajakhat had informed him over phone about
recovery of victim girls. PW2 denied the suggestion that he did not
state before the police that they came to Rajakhat after getting phone
call form one Jalal. It is also denied by him that he did not state before
the police that on the day of occurrence Saiful Islam raped on his
daughter and another boy raped the daughter of Hatem Ali. He
stated before the police that about the facts of the case on being
heard from the victim girls. In the statement before the police he
stated that the victim were raped in an unknown place. The place of
bushes of bamboo is about less than % km away from his house.
Jaynal Abedin is residing near the bamboo bushes. He went to the

Page 6 of 35
place of bamboo bushes to see the place of occurrence. The dry leafs
the bamboo is lying in the bamboo bushes. He had not seen any clean
area near the beneath of the bamboo bushes. PW2 denied the
suggestion that he did not state before the police that the accused
persons had committed rape on the victim girl near the beneath of the
bamboo bushes. Their villagers while goes to Balapara Bajar then they
have to across the place of occurrence. His house situated in the
western side of Phingua chowck. Rajakhat is 3 km far away from
Phingua chowck. He knows Safiqul who is the father of accused. He
does not know Azahar and Mafidul. PW2 denied the suggestion that
about 9 months back from the occurrence his daughter went to the
house of Azahar. The police had seized the mobile phones of the
victim girl and later on it was returned to them. He heard that there
was a quarrel between Afjal and Safikul, the father of the accused
Saiful for which a case was registered. PW2 denied the suggestion that
for that case, the instant case had been lodged against the accused
Saiful with intent to harass his family. PW2 denied the suggestion that
the other persons brought the victims girls and as such the accused is
not associated with the alleged occurrence. PW2 denied the
suggestion that this case has been brought against falsely against the
accused. PW2 denied the suggestion that on the day of occurrence his
daughter went to the house of her maternal grandmother house.

10. PW 3 Md. Hatem Ali deposed that informant Abdul Rezzak
is his co-villager. Victim is the daughter of informant Abdul Rezzak. “A”
(another girl of this case) is his daughter. He knows accused Saiful
Islam after the occurrence. He also know Habibul Haque. On
05.04.2018 at about 9.30-10 pm his daughter “A” was missing from
his house and at the time of occurrence she was a student of class
VIII. He along with his family members and neighbourers searched her
but could not trace her whereabouts. He came to know that daughter
of Abdul Rezzak was also missing on that very night. On the next day
moring he along with Abdul Rezzak along with other persons
searched them and went to Razzakhat to search them. From

Page 7 of 35
Razzakhat they went to Salbari and while they were at Salbari then an
unknown person informed them from Razzakhat that both the girls
had been recovered. Then they immediately rushed to Razzakhat and
found both their daughters. On being asked his daughter told him that
a boy eloped her to marry and on that very night the boy raped on her
and at the late night, he boy left her along with her friend who is
daughter of informant. On being asked, the daughter of the informant
also told that she was also eloped by Saiful Islam and on the way she
was raped by him. Later on, Abdul Rezzak lodged the ejahar with the
police. The police had seized the birth certificates of both the girls. He
put his signature as witness in the seizure list (Ext. 3). At the time of
occurrence his daughter was about 16 years.

In cross-examination, PW 3 stated that he had also filed
ejahar for kidnapping of his daughter. On that case the police had
recorded his statement. While the statements of the victims were
recorded by the police , they were in their uniform. His daughter and
the daughter of Abdul Rezzak were having mobile phone and both of
them were called by the accused over phone as he came to know later
on. Both the boys brought both the girls about % km. away from the
house and thereafter they raped on them. They were raped in the
jungle beside the “bee/’. The birth certificate of his daughter was
issued by Bhawanipur PHC and he applied for her birth certificate by
supporting an affidavit. Their daughters did not inform them over
phone though they were possessing mobile handset with them. The
police had not seized their clothes which were they were wearing at
the time of occurrence. PW3 denied the suggestion that he did not
state before the police that they were informed from Razzakhat over
phone about recovery of the victim girls as well as their daughters. He
stated before the police of the alleged occurrence of raped as stated
by their daughters. PW3 denied the suggestion that he stated before
the police that in an unknown place their daughters were raped. It is
also denied that the accused did not kidnap their daughters rather
they went intentionally from their houses.

Page 8 of 35
11. PW 4 “A” (name withheld) deposed that on 05.04.2018 at
about 9.30-10 pm while she was studying her books then “X” rang to
her and asked to come out from her house. Then she came out from
her house without informing to her parents and met “X”, Saiful Islam
and Habibul Haque on the road. Then Habibul snatched away her
mobile phone and caught hold her hand, forcefully brought her to
nearby jungle in the back side of the house of Jainal Abedin and under
the neath of the “Bamboo Chupa”, Habibul raped on her. She knows
that accused Saiful also raped on “X”. After committing rape accused
Saiful and Habibul brought them to Balapara. At Balapara both the
accused left them and fled away. Finding no alternative they
proceeded to Rajjakhat and came to the house of one unknown
person, called him, told him about the entire facts and then he rang to
her father and also she told to her father about the occurrence.
Immediately her father and Abdul Rezzak, the father of the “X” came
to Rajjakhat. They explained the entire occurrence to their fathers.
Thereafter their fathers brought them to Bhawanipur OP. The police
had recorded their statements. They were brought to FAAMCH,
Barpeta and got medically examined and thereafter they were
brought before the Magistrate at Bajali and recorded their statements
(Ext. 4). After recording their statements they were handed over to
their fathers.

In cross-examination, she deposed that due to the
forceful rape she felt pain in her private part. She also complained
before the Doctor and before the police that she had felt pain in her
private parts. From Balapara to Rajakhat is a motorable road and
there was a by lane towards their house. They went to Rajakhat rather
going to their house. She does not know the name of that person to
whom they asked for help at Rajakahat. She raised hue and cry while
Habibul forced upon her to do sexual intercourse and “X” also raised
commotion. At that time the mobile was with her and after leaving
them at Balapara, she did not rang to anybody but “X” rang to Habibul
and Saiful to come back. Her brother Asraful rang to “X” while they

Page 9 of 35
were at Balapara but he did not go there. The police personnel
recorded their statements while they were in uniform. The police
brought them to Bajali Court and they were accompanied by their
fathers. While her statement was recorded before the Magistrate then
her father was not with her and the police personnel were also outside
the room. She knows accused Habibul since last 1 year of the
occurrence and they were in love. She stated before the Magistrate in
Assamese but she does not know in which language her statement
was recorded by the Magistrate. She stated before the Magistrate that
Habibul did sexual intercourse with her with promise that he will
marry her. PW4 denied the suggestion that she did not state before
the police while she was called by “X” then she was studying in her
room. PW4 denied to the suggestion that she did not state before the
police that Habibul and Saiful left them at Balapara; that she told the
entire facts to the unknown person at Balapara and they went

voluntarily from the house.

12. PW 5 Dr. Anima Boro deposed that on 07-04-2018 she
was working at Fakkaruddin Ali Anmed Medical college & Hospital,
Barpeta as Lady Medical Officer in the department of Forensic
Medicine. On that day, she examined “X”, aged 15 years
(approximately) D/o Md. Abdur Razzak, resident of village- Madhya
Dalirbari, P.S. Barpeta, Dist- Barpeta with reference to Bhawanipur OP
GDE No. 103 dated 06.04.2018. She was escorted and_ identified by
WPC 671 Mala Boro and her father Abdur Razzak. History of the
allegation that the victim had love affair with Saiful Islam, 19 years
male. Further allegation of assaulted sexually on 05.04.2018 at around
11 pm and recovered by family member at around 02.30 pm on the

next day.
On physical examination she found as follows:

Identification marks: One black mole on left thumb of palm's side.
Height: 151 cm. Weight: 50 kg. Chest girth as nipple level: 76 cm.
Abdominal girth as nipple level: 80 cm. General built and appearance:

Page 10 of 35
Average. Voice: Feminine.

Hair: Axillary/ Body: Present. Breasts: Develop. Puberty (as told by
individual): 12 years. Menstruation (as told by individual): Regular.
L.M.P (as told by individual): 24.03.2018. Mental Condition: Stable.
Gait: Normal. Intelligence : Average.

Wearing- garments & any suspected stains present: No stain detected.
Bodily injury: No injury on body.

On genital examination:

Pubic Hairs: Present. Vulva (Labia majora & minora): Normal. Hymen:
Tear. Vagina: Admit 2 fingers. Cervix & Uterus: Uterus not palpable per
abdominally. Fourchetee & Perineum: Normal. Vaginal swab collected
from posterior fornix. Result of vaginal swab smear examination: No
spermatozoa is seen on microscopic examination of vaginal swab
Slides. Result of X-ray investigation (plate no. 61 MLC, dated
10.04.2018). Wrist Joint, Elbow Joint, Shoulder Joint: All epiphyseal
Union are completed. Pelvis: epiphyseal Union is not completed.
Ultrasonography advised and result: No UGC report. PW 5 opined
that according to x-ray report her age is above 18(eighteen) years
below 20(twenty) years at present, there is no recent sign of sexual
intercourse but victim is accustomed to sexual intercourse and there is
no injury marks on her private parts. She proved her medical report as
Ext. 5.

In her cross-examination deposed that at the time of
examination the victim told her that she was 15 years old. She
determined her age as above 18 years as per ossification test as well
as X-ray report.

13. PW 6 Sri Niranjan Kalita deposed that on 06.04.2018, he
was posted at Bhwanipur OP as I/C and on that day he received an FIR
from one Abdul Razzak and the same was made as GDE No. 103 dated
06.04.2018 and forwarded the FIR to the O/C, Barpeta PS for register a
case. Accordingly, it was registered as Barpeta PS Case No. 718/18 u/s

Page 11 of 35
366A/34 IPC, r/w sec. 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted him to complete
the investigation. During the investigation he examined the
complainant Abdul Razzak and both the victims. Thereafter he visited
the place of occurrence and drew up the sketch map (Ext. 7), seized
the birth certificate of the victims produced by Abdul Razzak vide Ext.
3 seizure list. Material Ext. 1 is the birth certificate. He also recorded
the statement one witness namely Haten Ali. Though he searched the
houses of accused Saiful Islama and Habibul Hoque but could not trace
out them. After that case diary was handed over to O/C, Inspector
Binoy Kalita and proceeded for new place of posting.

In cross-examination, PW 6 deposed that complainant
along with the 2(two) victims appeared before the Out Post and then
after interrogation, he recorded their statements u/s 161 CrPC.
Thereafter forwarded both the victims for medical examination to
FAAMCH, Barpeta. On that day, he has not seized any wearing cloths
of the victims even not seized their mobile phones from their hands. In
the sketch map he has shown the Bamboo Bush under which victims
were raped but he has not found any trace on the ground of
committing rape. In the sketch map “B” is the house of Jainal. At a
distance of 50 meters the house of “X” and from that at a distance of
50 meters the house of Asraf Ali. If there raise hue and cry then
neighbour people will have heard. He has not recorded the statements
of Asraf Ali Jainal Abedin. In the 164 CrPC statement the victim “X”
stated that on returning from grandmother's house she was raped ina
jungle but she has not investigated into that period from which victim
was coming i.e. coming from grandmother's house to her house. He
has not seized mobile phone of accused persons. He has not collected
the call detect register for confirmation of call of victim by which the
victim called the accused persons. The birth certificate of both the
victim were issued by the Registrar, Bhwanipur PHC that produced by
the father of the victim but he has not interrogated the Registrar. The
certificates were issued in the year of 2015. He has not seized the
school certificates of the victims. It has been clearly mentioned in his

Page 12 of 35
case-diary that at the time of recording the statement of victim he was
in civil dress. In his case-diary it has not been mentioned that before
recording her statement he did not take her option in which place
would be better for her or she want to state at that place. PW 2 Md
Abdul Rezzak stated before him that the victim were raped in an
unknown place. PW 2 did not state before her him that victims were
recovered from Rajakhat. PW 2 did not state before him that they
came to Rajakhat after getting phone call form one Jalal. PW 2 stated
before him that on the day of occurrence Saiful Islam raped on her
daughter and another boy raped the daughter of Hatem Ali.

14. PW 7 Sri Pradip Haloi, in this case deposed that on 08-06-
2018 he was working as In-Charge of Bhawanipur Out Post. On that
day the O/C of Barpeta police station endorsed him a FIR vide Barpeta
PS Case No. 07/18 u/s 366A/34 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act. Having
got the endorsement he has read the case-diary and found that
investigation almost been completed except arresting the accused
persons. On 03-07-2018 arrested the accused Saiful Islam and
recorded his statement, medically examined him and _ thereafter
forwarded him to the Court. On 06-07-18 other accused Habibul had
surrendered before them, accordingly his statement was recorded,
medically examined him and thereafter forwarded him to the Court.
On seizing the birth certificate of Habibul it appeared that he is a
juvenile as such, his case was forwarded to the JJB, Barpeta through
the Magistrate. After completion of investigation, finding the incident
being true submitted the charge-sheet against accused Saiful Islam u/s
366(A) IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO, Act 2012. Ext. 8 is the charge-sheet
vide No. 541/2018 dated 31-07-2018 and Ext. 8(i) is his signature.

In his cross-examination deposed that before filing
charge-sheet they took note of SP as Supervisor of the investigation.
He did not go to the Bhawanipur PHC for proving the authenticity of
birth certificate of “X”. After completion of investigation it is come to
light that the accused persons by giving inducement of marriage kept
confined the victims and committed sexual intercourse. The victim in

Page 13 of 35
her statement it has been mentioned that the place of occurrence is
nearby forest but he has not visited that place of occurrence.

15. Smti. Sonamani Chanda, the then SDJM, (M) Bajali
deposed that on 07/04/2018 she was working as SDJM(M), Bajali. On
that day she has recorded the statement of “X” of Madhya Datirbari,
P.S. & Dist. - Barpeta. Then the victim was a student of class IX and her
age was 15 years. In the statement in the name and date column she
has wrongly recorded the date as 07 day of April 2017; but it should
be 7th day of April 2018. Ext. 1 is the statement of the victim and Ext.
L(ii) and Ext. 1(iii) are her signatures.

In cross-examination, she deposed that before recording
the statement of the victim, she kept the victim in her chamber. She
asked the victim about the incident in Assamese but she recorded the
statement in English. In the statement of the victim it is written that
“on 05/04/2018 at about 10.30 pm (night) she was returning back from
her grandmother's house. “A” was with her. Her house is at about 50

meter distance.”

16. PW - 9 Dr. Sarbananda Kalita deposed that Material Ext. 1
is the birth certificate of “x” which was issued by him on 23/07/2015
on the basis of an order of the Executive Magistrate dated 03/07/2015
communicated vide memo No. BJAD/2705 dated 03/07/2015. Material
Ext. 1(i) is his signature.

In his cross-examination, deposed that the said “A” was
not born in their Hospital. On the basis of an order passed by the
Executive Magistrate vide memo No. BJAD/2705 dated 03/07/2015 he
had issued the birth certificate. He issued the birth certificate in the

year of 2015 during the continuation of NRC process.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:
17. To establish the case u/s 366 IPC prosecution is to prove

 

the following.
(1) that the accused kidnapped or abducted:

Page 14 of 35
(2) that the person kidnapped or abducted was a woman-
(a) that such woman would be compelled to marry any
person — against her will; or

(b) that she would be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse.

Or the following points should be proved-
(1) that the accused induced a woman;
(2) to go from any place-
(a) by means of compulsion,
(b) criminal intimidation, or
(c) abuse of authority.
(3) that he then intended or knew that it was likely:
(4) that such woman would be forced or seduced or to illicit

intercourse.

18. Section 361 IPC provides kidnapping from lawful
guardianship- Whoever takes or entices any minor under sixteen
years of age if a male, or under eighteen years of age if a female, or
any person of unsound mind, out of the keeping of the lawful guardian
of such minor or person of unsound mind, without the consent of such
guardian, is said to kidnap such minor or person from lawful

guardianship.

Explanation.—The words “lawful guardian” in this section
include any person lawfully entrusted with the care or
custody of such minor or other person.

19. FIR reveals that on 05-04-18 at about 10 pm daughter of
the informant and his niece were missing from their respective
houses. On searched they found them at Rajakhat chowk on 06-04-
2018 and after asking to them they told that the accused person
kidnapped them forcefully after giving assurance that they would

marry them.

20. PW 2 the informant deposed that on the next day of the

Page 15 of 35
occurrence in the afternoon he received a phone from an unknown
person of Rajakhat that they had recovered his daughter with an
another girl and asked him to go there to take them back. Hearing this,
he along with Hatem Ali rushed to Rajakhat and found both the girls
there and on being asked, they told him that one Saiful Islam and
another boy called them over phone to come out from the house.
Having got the phone call they came out from their house and met
Saiful Islam and another boy on the road.

21. In support that that PW 1 the victim also deposed that on
05-04-2018 accused Saiful Islam called her over phone to meet him
and accordingly she came out from the house and met him on the
road. Thereafter he took her to nearby bamboo bushes. Like that PW 4
the another victim deposed that on 05.04.2018 at about 9.30-10 pm
while she was studying then “X” rang to her and asked her to come
out from her house. Accordingly she came out from her house without
informing to her parents and met “X”, Saiful Islam and Habibul Haque
on the road. Then Habibul snatched away her mobile phone and
caught hold her hand and forcefully brought her to nearby jungle in
the back side of the house of Jainal Abedin. PW 3 deposed that on the
day of occurrence, while they were searching her daughter then an
unknown person informed him from Razzakhat that both the girls had
been recovered and asked him to come there. Hearing it he
immediately rushed to Razzakhat and found her daughter along with
the another victim. On being asked his daughter told him that a boy
eloped her to marry. The testimony of PW 7 reveals that he had
recorded the statements of informant and the victim girls and after
that visited the place of occurrence, drew sketch map. During
investigation he found that both the victims were under the age of 18
years.

22. On precises analysis of the evidence of the vital material
witnesses, it appears that on the date of occurrence, the accused
persons called the victim girls and accordingly without informing their
parents and any other guardian of their house, they came out from

Page 16 of 35
their respective houses. So, from the above, it is reveal that there was
no any inducement even any force for taking away the victims i.e. the
PW 1 and PW 4. Rather the evidence of victims reveals that they went
out voluntarily. As such, the ingredients of section 366 IPC is seemingly

missing.

25. Now come to the point No. Il. Whether the accused

committed forceful penetrative sexual assault on the victim ?

24. Section 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012 consent is an immaterial Spl. POCSO Case consideration as
consent is not an ingredient of offence as defined in Section 3 of the
Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. For the sake of
convenience, Section 3 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012 is quoted herein below:-

“3. Penetrative sexual assault. - A person is said to

commit “penetrative sexual assault” if -

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into
the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part
of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina,
the urethra or anus of the child or makes the
child to do so with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the
child so as to cause penetration into the vagina,
urethra, anus or any part of body of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina,
anus, urethra of the child or makes the child to

Page 17 of 35
do so to such person or any other person.

25. From above, it appears that mere penetration is enough
to constitute of an offence of penetrative sexual assault against a child
and consent is immaterial for commission of the said offence.

Punishment for penetrative sexual assault.-

Whoever commits penetrative sexual
assault Shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a
term which shall not be less than seven
years but which may~ extend to
imprisonment for life, and shall also be
liable to fine.

26. PW 1 “X” the victim girl stated that on the day of
occurrence accused Saiful Islam called her over phone and then she
came out from her house. She met him on the road and after that he
caught hold her hand and took away her to nearby bush of bamboo
which is 100 meters away from her house. At first he told her that he
would marry her and then he did forceful sexual intercourse with her.
In the meantime, her friend “A” (name withheld) came and told her
that she was raped by Habibul Haque. Thereafter, accused Saiful Islam
and Habibul brought them (both the girls) to Balapara in an isolated
place and left there. She further stated that she had love affair with the
accused Saiful Islam about 1% years prior to the occurrence. She used
the mobile handset and in that phone, accused rang to her. It is also
stated that by her that she did not raise hue and cry while accused
Saiful did sexual intercourse with her even on the way to Balapara. She
also not asked to help anyone on the way to Balapara. Though at that
time, she has mobile with her but she did not rang to her parents. She
stated before the Magistrate that she was dragged to a nearby forest
but before the police stated that accused Saiful did forceful intercourse
near their bamboo bush. PW 1 denied the suggestion that doctor told
her that she attained above 18 years at the time of examination and

Page 18 of 35
accused did not commit sexual intercourse with her.

27. PW 4 “A” (friend of the present victim) deposed that on
05.04.2018 at about 9.30-10 pm “X” rang to her and asked her to
come out from her house. Then she came out and met “X”, Saiful Islam
and Habibul Haque on the road. After that Habibul snatched away her
mobile phone, caught hold her hand and forcefully brought her to
nearby jungle in the back side of the house of Jainal Abedin. Under the
neath of the “Bamboo Chupa”, Habibul raped on her. She knew that
accused Saiful also raped on “X”. After committing rape accused Saiful
and Habibul brought them to Balapara and left there. Finding no
alternative they came to the house of one unknown person and _ told
him about the entire facts and then he rang to her father, she talked
with him and told about the occurrence. Immediately her father and
Abdul Rezzak, the father of the “X” came to Rajjakhat and on being
arrived, they explained the entire occurrence to them. Her father
brought them to Bhawanipur OP. She further stated that due to the
forceful rape she felt pain in her private part. She also complained
before the doctor and before the police that she had felt pain in her
private parts. She does not know the name of that person to whom
they asked for help at Rajakahat. She raised hue and cry while Habibul
forced upon her to do sexual intercourse and “X” also raised hue and
cry. Though she has mobile phone with her but did not rang to
anybody. “X” rang to Habibul and Saiful to come back. She knows
accused Habibul since last 1 year of the occurrence and they were in
love. She stated before the Magistrate that Habibul did sexual
intercourse with her with a promise that he would marry her.

28. PW 2 is the informant of this case and PW 3 is the father
of PW 4. PW 2 deposed that on 05-04-2018 his daughter was missing
from his house. On the next day of the occurrence, he received a
phone from an unknown person of Rajakhat who told that they
recovered his daughter and the another girl and asked him to go there
and to take back. Hearing it, he along with Hatem Ali went to Rajakhat

Page 19 of 35
wherein he found his daughter and PW 4 and on being asked, both the
girls told them that Saiful Islam and another boy brought them near
the bushes of bamboo and raped. Thereafter, he lodged the ejahar
(Ext. 2). The police had seized the birth certificate of his daughter and
the another victim girl vide seizure list Ext. 3. Material Ext. 1 (proved
in original) is the birth certificate of his daughter. PW 2 further deposed
that the police personnel did not seize the any cloth or article from the
victims on that day. The birth certificate of his daughter was issued in
the year 2015 and it was issued by the Bhabanipur PHC. PW2 denied
the suggestion that Material Ext. 1 has been obtained on false
contention in the affidavit. It is also denied that at the time of
occurrence the victim was above 18 years. The victims did not rang to
them after the occurrence. He stated before the police that about the
facts of this case, on being heard from the victim girls. The police had
seized the mobile phones of the victim girl and later on it was returned
to them. PW 3 Hatem Ali deposed that on 05.04.2018 his daughter “A”
was found missing from his house. On the next day, an unknown
person informed them from Razzakhat that both the girls had been
recovered and then they rushed there and found both their daughter
along with “X”. On being asked his daughter told him that a boy eloped
her to marry and after committing rape, left her. He further deposed
that while the statements of the victims were recorded by the police
they were in uniform. The birth certificate of his daughter was issued
by Bhawanipur PHC and he applied for her birth certificate by
Supporting an affidavit. Their daughters did not inform them over
phone though they were possessing mobile handset with them. PW3
denied to the suggestion that the accused persons did not commit
raped on their daughters as such, he could not say the place of alleged
occurrence.

29. The evidence of PW 2 and PW 3 are hearsay. They have
not seen the occurrence but heard from the victim girls. Yet as per
section 6 of the Evidence Act their evidence that on the day of
occurrence accused Saiful Islam took away the victim “X” to nearby

Page 20 of 35
bamboo bushes and forcefully committed sexual intercourse with her,

cannot be thrown out.

30. In the case of State of Punjab Vs. Gurmit Singh &
Ors. AIR 1996 SC 1393, this Court held that in cases involving
sexual harassment, molestation etc. the court is duty bound to deal
with such cases with utmost sensitivity. Minor contradictions or
insignificant discrepancies in the statement of a prosecutrix should not
be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable prosecution case.
Evidence of the victim of sexual assault is enough for conviction and it
does not require any corroboration unless there are compelling
reasons for seeking corroboration. The court may look for some
assurances of her statement to satisfy judicial conscience. The
statement of the prosecutrix is more reliable than that of an injured
witness as she is not an accomplice. The Court further held that the
delay in filing FIR for sexual offence may not be even properly
explained, but if found natural, the accused cannot be given any
benefit thereof. The Court observed as under :- "The court overlooked
the situation in which a poor helpless minor girl had found herself in
the company of three desperate young men who were threatening her
and preventing her from raising any alarm. uv... The prosecutrix
had no control over the investigating agency and the negligence of an
investigating officer could not affect the credibility of the statement of
thE PLOSCCUELIX....sssceeeees The courts must, while evaluating evidence
remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self- respecting
woman would come forward in a court just to make a humiliating
statement against her honour such as Is involved in the commission of
rape on her In cases involving sexual molestation, supposed
considerations which have no material effect on the veracity of the
prosecution case or even discrepancies in the statement of the
prosecutrix should not, unless the discrepancies are such which are of
fatal nature, be allowed to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution
COSC. seeeseeees Seeking corroboration of her statement before replying

upon the same as a rule, in such cases, amounts to adding insult to

Page 21 of 35
IJUTY cs acenee eens Corroboration as a condition for judicial reliance on the
testimony of the prosecutrix is not a requirement of law but a

guidance of prudence under given circumstances.

31. In the case Vijay @ Chinee -vs- State of Madhya
Pradesh of the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that “A prosecutrix of a
sex-offence cannot be put on par with an accomplice. She is in fact a
victim of the crime. The Evidence Act nowhere says that her evidence
cannot be accepted unless it is corroborated in material particulars.
She is undoubtedly a competent witness under Section 118 and her
evidence must receive the same weight as Is attached to an injured in
cases of physical violence. The same degree of care and caution must
attach in the evaluation of her evidence as in the case of an injured
complainant or witness and no more. What is necessary Is that the
Court must be alive to and conscious of the fact that it is dealing with
the evidence of a person who is interested in the outcome of the
charge levelled by her. If the court keeps this in mind and feels
satisfied that it can act on the evidence of the prosecutrix, there is no
rule of law or practice incorporated in the Evidence Act similar to
illustration (b) to Section 114 which requires it to look for
corroboration. If for some reason the court is hesitant to place implicit
reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix it may look for evidence
which may lend assurance to her testimony short of corroboration
required in the case of an accomplice. The nature of evidence required
to lend assurance to the testimony of the prosecutrix must necessarily
depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. But if a
prosecutrix is an adult and of full understanding the court is entitled to
base a conviction on her evidence unless the same is shown to be
infirm and not trustworthy. If the totality of the circumstances
appearing on the record of the case disclose that the prosecutrix does
not have a strong motive to falsely involve the person charged, the
court should ordinarily have no hesitation in accepting her evidence."

32. Ld. Counsel for the accused has strenuously argued that
the medical examination of the victim was conducted but the doctor

Page 22 of 35
did not find any sign of recent sexual intercourse or injury on her
private part but opined that she is accustomed to sexual intercourse.
She also opined that the victim was above 18 years of age according
to x-ray report. As such, opinion of the doctor has not corroborated
the offence of rape that alleged to have been committed by the
accused.

33. Now let us see whether the evidence of victim needs to
be corroborated by the evidence of medical officer in the eye of law.

34. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ranjit
Hazarika vs State of Assam (1998)8 SCC 635 held that “the
opinion of the doctor that no rape appeared to have been committed
was based only on the absence of rupture of the hymen and injuries on
the private parts of the prosecutrix. This opinion cannot throw out an
otherwise cogent and trustworthy evidence of the prosecutrix. Besides,
the opinion of the doctor appears to be based on ("no
FEASONS es eesecaeeeeceeeeeeneenes "The courts must, while evaluating
evidence, remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self-
respecting woman would come forward in a court just to make a
humiliating statement against her honour such as is involved in the
commission of rape on her. In cases involving sexual molestation,
supposed considerations which have no material effect on the veracity
of the prosecution case or even discrepancies in the statement of the
prosecutrix should not, unless the discrepancies are such which are of
fatal nature, be allowed to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution
case. Why should the evidence of a girl or a woman who complains of
rape or sexual molestation be viewed with doubt, disbelief or
suspicion? The court while appreciating the evidence of a prosecutrix
may look for some assurance of her statement to satisfy its judicial
conscience, since she is a witness who is interested in the outcome of
the charge leveled by her, but there is no requirement of law to insist
upon corroboration of her statement to base conviction of an accused.
The evidence of a victim of sexual assault stands almost on a par with

the evidence of an injured witness and to an extent is even more

Page 23 of 35
reliable. Just as a witness who has sustained some injury in the
occurrence, which is not found to be self-inflicted, is considered to be a
good witness in the sense that he is least likely to shield the real
culprit, the evidence of a victim of a sexual offence is entitled to great
weight, absence of corroboration notwithstanding. Corroborative
evidence is not an imperative component of judicial credence
in every case of rape. Corroboration as a condition for judicial
reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix is not a
requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under given
circumstances. It must not be overlooked that a woman or a
girl subjected to sexual assault is not an accomplice to the
crime but is a victim of another person's lust and it is
improper and undesirable to test her evidence with a certain
amount of suspicion, treating her as if she were an
accomplice. |Inferences have to be drawn from a given set of facts
and circumstances with realistic diversity and not dead uniformity lest
that type of rigidity in the shape of rule of law is introduced through a
new form of testimonial tyranny making justice a casualty. Courts
cannot cling to a fossil formula and insist upon corroboration even if,
taken as a whole, the case spoken of by the victim of sex crime strikes
the judicial mind as probable."

35. In the case in hand it is found that though the medical
officer did not find any sing of recent sexual intercourse but she is
accustomed to sexual intercourse. She also found hymen of the victim
was tear. If victim was accustomed to sexual intercourse there should
be old rupture of hymen. From the above discussions and findings of
the Hon'ble Supreme Court, it can safely held that there is no need for
corroboration of medical evidence, if the evidence of prosecutrix found
to be reliable. So, in the instant case the Court is of the considered
opinion that there is no need for corroboration of the medical evidence
of the victim.

36. Section 114-A of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, which was
inserted by way of amendment in the year 1988, there is a clear and

Page 24 of 35
specific provision that where sexual intercourse by the accused is
proved and the question is whether it was without the consent of the
woman alleged to have been raped, and she states in her evidence
before the court that she did not consent, the court shall presume that
she did not consent. In our case, the victim also stated that the
accused forcefully raped on her.

37. Ld. counsel for the accused submitted the according to
the opinion of doctor, the victim was above 18 years and below 20
years. The doctor opined the age on the basis of x-ray examination
report. Hence, at the time of alleged commission of rape, she was a
major one and she knew the about the circumstances of her conduct.
Moreover, the victim herself stated that she did not raise any hue and
cry while the accused committed sexual intercourse with her. As such,

being an adult woman, she herself given consent.

38. PW 6 Sri Niranjan Kalita, I/O of this case deposed that he
conducted the the investigation of Barpeta PS Case No. 718/18 u/s
366A/34 r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and during investigation he
seized the birth certificate of the victim vide seizure list Ext. 3. Material
Ext. 1 is the said seizure list. PW 9 Dr. Sarbananda Kalita deposed that
Material Ext. 1 the birth certificate of “X” was issued by him on 23-07-
2015 on the basis of an order passed by Executive Magistrate dated
03-07-15 communicated vide Memo No. BJAD/2705 dated 03-07-2015.

39. Material Ext. 1 is the said seized birth certificate of “X”
wherein her date of birth is recorded as 01-01-2003. As per the FIR as
well as the evidence of the PWs the incident of sexual intercourse had
taken place on 05-04-2018. As such, the victim was 15 years 3
months 4 days old at the time of occurrence.

40. In the instant case, though PW 5 doctor, who examined
the victim has opined that the age of the victim at the time of her
examination was above 18 years, however learned Addl. PP has argued
that in light of the categorical statement of the victim and on the basis
of Material Ext. 1, she was below 18 years of age at the time of

Page 25 of 35
incident, the opinion of the doctor can be ignored by this Court as
there is a probability of percentage of error in assessment of the age of
the victim by radiological examination. Ld. Addl. PP has also cited a
ruling of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in ““aya Mala vs-Home
Secretary, Government of Jammu and Kashmir & Ors.”
reported in (1982) 2 SCC 538 wherein Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India dealing with a case were question of determination of the age
was involved observed that :- “one can take judicial notice that
the margin of error in age ascertained by radiological
examination is 2 years on either side.” \n our case in view of the
aforesaid ruling of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India and also in view of
the categorical testimony of the victim and PW 9 and on the basis of
Material Ext. 1 the birth certificate of “X”, it can be inferred that the
age ascertained by Doctor in the instant case is not the conclusive
determination of age of the victim but it is to be accepted that an error
of 2(two) years in determining the age, through medical examination,
is possible. Thus, for the said reasons, this Court holds that the victim
was below the age of 18 years when the incident occurred.

41. Section 29 of the POCSO Act, where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence under Sections 3, 5, 7 and 9 of the Act, the Special Court shall
presume that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to
commit the offence, as the case may be, unless the contrary is proved.

42. So as per section 29 of the act the evidence of PW 3 can
be presumed that the accused person had committed the offence

unless contrary is proved.

43. PW 1 the victim has categorically stated that on the day of
occurrence while she came out from the house the accused person
caught hold her hand and took away to the nearby bamboo bushes
and committed forcibly sexual intercourse with her. During cross-

examination, the defence side has failed to demolish the credibility of

Page 26 of 35
the evidence of victim PW 1.

44. The Learned counsel for the accused has argued on the
point that the investigating officer has not complied with the provision
of the section 24 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and also the provision of
Section 102 Cr.P.C. while conducting investigation. It is also argued that

while the victim was examined the police personnel were in uniform.

45. Per contra the Ld. Addl. PP submits that defective
investigation is not a reason for disbelieving that fact and circumstance
of the case also the evidence of the victim in the circumstances of rape
case corroboration of the fact is not so much necessary if the evidence
of victim is found reliable and trustworthy. There may be some lacuna
on the part of the investigating officer but which means it is not that
the fact is not true.

46. At this juncture, this Court has follow the case of C,
Muniappan and Others vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (2010) 9 SCC
567, explained the law on this point in the following manner: "There
may be highly defective investigation in a case. However, it is to be
examined as to whether there is any lapse by the IO and whether due
to such lapse any benefit should be given to the accused.

47. The law on this issue is well settled that the defect
in the investigation by itself cannot be a ground for acquittal. If
primacy is given to such designed or negligent investigations or to the
omissions or lapses by perfunctory investigation, the faith and
confidence of the people in the criminal justice administration would be
eroded.

48. The presumption under Section 29 of the POCSO Act was
not rebutted either by bringing out any favourable reply from the
evidence of the prosecution witnesses or producing documentary
evidence on the side of the defence. On the other hand, in this case,
the evidence of P.W. 1, who was minor and aged about 15/16 years at
the time of occurrence, is crystal clear without giving any room of

Page 27 of 35
doubt to test the veracity of the crime committed by the accused.

49. The offence u/s 4 of the Protection of Child From Sexual
Offences (POCSO) Act deals with punishment for penetrative sexual
assault. The offence of penetrative sexual assault under POCSO Act
and for that mater other offences also under this Act can be committed
only on a child. The definition of child u/s 2(d) of the POCSO Act is as

follows:
“Child” means any person below age of 18 years.

50. Thus, a person can be convicted for an offence under
POCSO Act only if the victim is below the age of 18 years. In the instant
case, the victim is also below the age of 18 years.

51. In the case of Pancchi - Vs - State of U.P., AIR 1998
SC 2726, it was held that it is not the law that if a witness is a child,
his evidence shall be rejected, even if it is found reliable. The law is
that evidence of a child witness must be evaluated more carefully and
with greater circumspection because a child is susceptible to be
swayed by what others tell them and this a child witness is easy prey
to tutoring.

52. The ratio of above cases is that the testimony of child
witnesses is attributed the same kind of credibility that it attached to
the statement of any other witness if the testimony is consistent. In the
present case, the victim has been consistent on the material
particulars with regard to the incident when the accused committed
penetrative sexual assault upon her. Apart from that, there is no
meaningful cross-examination to the witnesses regarding the incident,

except denial.

53. In the case of POCSO Act, two provisions are there
regarding presumption i.e. 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

54. In the case in hand, the accused has been prosecuted for
committing penetrative sexual assault, as defined in Section 3 of the
Act. Thus, in terms of Section 29 of the Act, this Court is bound to draw

Page 28 of 35
a presumption in favour of the victim that the accused had committed
the offence, unless contrary is proved by the accused. In other words,
the onus is upon the accused to establish that he had not committed
penetrative sexual assault towards the victim. Admittedly, in the
instant case, the accused has not rebutted the said presumption in any
manner just putting the argument. Thus, this Court has no reason to
draw the presumption in favour of the accused.

55. Similarly, u/s.30 of POCSO Act, Special Court has to draw
presumption in favour of the prosecution where culpable mental state
is required on the part of the accused. Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state - (1) In
any prosecution for any offence under this Act
which requires a culpable mental state on the part
of the accused, the Special Court shall presume the
existence of such mental state but it shall be a
defence for the accused to prove the fact that he
had no such mental state with respect to the act
charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to
be proved only when the Special Court believes it to
exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely
when its existence is established by a
preponderance of prosecution.”

56. Bare perusal of Section 30 of the Act reveals that
whenever a question of culpable mental state on the part of the
accused is required to prove the guilt of the accused, Court shall
presume the existence of said mental state. Though accused can take
the defence to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with
respect to his act but accused has to prove the said fact beyond
reasonable doubt and not by showing its existence by establishing
preponderance of probability. Thus, u/s.30 of the Act, liberty is given to
the accused to take a defence that he had no such mental state of his

Page 29 of 35
act but he has to prove the said fact beyond reasonable doubt.

57. But in the instant case, the accused has neither taken any
such defence nor adduced any defene witnesses. Thus, this Court is
bound to draw a presumption that the accused had culpable mental
state of his act.

58. Culpable mental state“ is defined in the explanation to
Section 30 of the Act which includes intention, motive, knowledge of a
fact and the belief in, or reason to believe, a fact. To bring home the
guilt of the accused u/s.30 of the Act, prosecution has to establish
sexual intention on the part of the accused but in terms of Section 30
of the Act, Special Court is bound to draw a presumption in favour of
the prosecution that accused had such intention unless presumption is
rebutted by the accused beyond reasonable doubt.

59. The accused person while examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. did not
take any plea except total denial.

60. In the case of Ratansinh Dalsukhbahai Nayak - Vs -
State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on
the question whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence
primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his manners, his
apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and the said Judge may
resort to any examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and
intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an oath. In
the instant case there is no other element in the evidence of victim
except believing her fact as stated by her as true.

él. In another case Dattu Ramrao Sakhare - Vs - State of
Maharashtra, (1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held as follows: “A child
witness if found competent to depose to the facts and reliable one such
evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other words, even in the
absence of oath the evidence of a child witness can be considered u/s.
118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to
understand the questions and able to give rational answers thereof.

Page 30 of 35
The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof would depend
upon the circumstances of each case. The only precaution which the
Court should bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child
witness is that the witness must be a reliable one and _ his/her
demeanour must be like any other competent witness and there is no
likelihood of being tutored.”

62. In the present case, the deposition of the victim stands
well corroborated with the statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C by the Ld.
Magistrate. Though the witnesses were cross-examined in full length,
but nothing has come on record, which could suggest that the
prosecution case is false in any aspect or that the prosecution
witnesses are not deposing the truth. PW 1 in her evidence also the
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. stated that the accused person restrained her
on the way, dragged her to a nearby forest and did sexual intercourse
with her. Irrespective of any support from Section 29 and 30 of POCSO
Act, 2012 the prosecution case in fact stands well proved from the
deposition of the victim.

63. In the considered view of this Court, the prosecution has
clearly established in proving beyond shadow of all reasonable doubt
that accused Saiful Islam had committed penetrative sexual assault on
the victim. The act of the accused thus falls u/s 4 of POCSO Act.
Accordingly, the accused is found guilty and therefore, he is convicted
there under.

HEARING ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE

64. The accused is heard on the point of sentence. He has
submitted before the Court that he has old aged ailing parents in the
house. He is the only earning member of his family and hence prays for

leniency.

65. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law
that while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the
Court should strike a balance between the aggravating circumstances

Page 31 of 35
and the mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances
relate to the crime and the mitigating circumstances relate to the
criminal. In this case, so far as the aggravating circumstances are
concerned, a minor girl was sexually exploited. The wound caused to
the girl is not only to the body, but also to the mind of not only the
victim, but that of the entire family members. The stigma, which she is
going to carry for ever is not erasable. Thus, the aggravating

circumstances are so grave in nature.

66. Turning to the mitigating circumstances, the accused was
not involved in any other crime, prior to the incident. The statute under
Section 4 of POCSO Act prescribes a minimum punishment for a term of
7 (seven) years with fine. When the intention of legislature is to impose
stringent punishment for not less than seven years, this Court has got

no option except to impose minimum punishment for 7 (Seven) years.

oO R D E R

67. | convict the accused Saiful Islam u/s 4 of POCSO Act and
sentence him to R.I. for 7 (Seven) years and also to pay a fine of Rs.
10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand only), in default of payment of fine,
Shall undergo, R.I. for another 6 (six) months. The fine amount of Rs.
10,000/- if recover be deposited into the account of Taluk Legal Service
Authotiy, Bajali. The period of detention during investigation and trial
be set off from the period of imprisonment imposed on him. The
prosecution side failed to establish the charge u/s 366 IPC against the
accused and he is acquitted of the said charge.

68. Now, coming to the aspect of compensation to the victim,
who is a minor child, the Hon“ble Apex Court has time and again
observed that subordinate Courts trying the offences of sexual assault
have the jurisdiction to award the compensation to the victim being an
offence against the basic human right and violative of Article 21 of the
Constitution of India. In a case titled as Bodhisattwa Gautam - Vs -

Page 32 of 35
Subhra Chakraborty, AIR 1996 SC 922, it has been held by the
Hon“ble Supreme Court that the jurisdiction to pay compensation
(interim and final) has to be treated as a part of the over all jurisdiction
of the Courts trying the offences of rape, which is an offence against
basic human rights as also the Fundamental Rights of Personal Liberty
and Life. Even otherwise, the concept of welfare and well being of
children is basic for any civilized society and this has a direct bearing
on the state of health and well being of the entire community, its
growth and development. It has been time and again emphasized in
various legislations, international declarations as well as the judicial
pronouncements that the children are a supremely important national
asset and the future well being of the nation depends on how its
children grow and develop, which has been observed in the case of
Laxmi Kant Pandey - Vs - Union of India, (1984) 2 SCC 244.
Therefore, in order to provide restorative and compensatory justice to
the victim, | hereby direct the Secretary, DLSA, Barpeta to grant
compensation to the tune of Rs. 15,000/- (Rupees Fifteen Thousand) to
the victim. The amount shall be used for the welfare and rehabilitation
of the victim under the supervision of District Social Welfare Officer,
Barpeta.

69. A copy of the order be sent to the Secretary, DLSA,
Barpeta for necessary action.

70. A copy of this judgment be given to the accused free of
cost and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Barpeta.

71. The accused/convict has been informed about his right to
appeal against this judgment before the Hon’ble Gauhati High Court.

72. The seized article be disposed of after appellate period. A
copy of this order be given to PSI, Bajali.

73. The Spl. POCSO Case is disposed of accordingly.

74. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court

Page 33 of 35
in presence of both the parties and | put my hand and seal of this Court
on this 30th day of November, 2019.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
Dictated & Corrected
by me

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Dictation taken and transcribed
by me.
(Alakesh Das, Steno)

Page 34 of 35
APPENDIX :-

Oral evidences :-
PW-1 Victim.

Pw-2
PW-3
Pw-4
PW-5
PW-6
PW-7
PW-8
PW-9

Md. Abdul Rezzak,
Md Hatem Ali.

“A” (Name withheld)
Dr. Anima Boro

Sri Niranjan Kalita
Sri Pradip Kalita

Smti Sonamani Chanda
Dr. Sarbanand Kalita.

Documentary evidence :-

Ext.-1
Ext.-2
Ext.-3
Ext.-4
Ext.-5
Ext.-6

Statement of victim “X”

Ejahar

Seizure list

Statement of “A”

Medical Examination Report of “X”
Medical Examination Report of “A”

Ext.-7 Sketch Map
Ext.-8 Charge-sheet.

Material Exhibits:
Ext. 1 Birth Certificate of “X”

Defence evidence.

Nil.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Page 35 of 35
