CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 11/14

Informant: — Sri Pradip Orang,
S/o- Late Sakhi Orang,
R/o- Tipling Bahdhari,
PS- Naharkatia,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Kartik Murari,
S/o- Sri Ram Chandra Murari,
R/o- Gethupather Dangpara,
PS- Naharkatia,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: AN Hazarika, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 11/14
G.R. Case No. 1100/14

State of Assam
‘i Vs-

Sri Kartik Murari

Charges under Sections 302/366/363 IPC, read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 07-04-15, 08-06-15, 03-07-15, 05-08-15, 28-08-15,

29-06-16 & 16-02-17.

Date of argument : 13-06-17.
Date of Judgment —_: 10-07-17.

1)

2)

3)

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case stems from the FIR lodged by Sri Pradip Orang that on
30-04-14, at about 7:00 am, his son Akash Murah and his daughter X were
returning from a shop. At that time, Kartik Murari (hereinafter the accused)
took the victim X towards the oil rig and from then onwards, the victim was
missing. She did not return home. On 01-05-14, after a frantic search, the
victim's body was recovered from the Dihing River at about 1:30 pm. An
ejahar was lodged by Sri Pradip Orang (herein after the complainant) with
the police. The ejahar was registered as Naharkatia PS Case No. 48/14 under
Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC in short) and SI GK Gogoi
continued with the investigation.

The investigating officer (IO in short) went to the place of occurrence and
made arrangements for inquest of the dead body of X and thereafter,
forwarded the body for autopsy. He prepared a Sketch-Map and recorded the
statements of the witnesses. On finding prima facie materials, he submitted
Charge-Sheet under Section 302 IPC, read with Section 4 of the Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter the POCSO Act).

On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
the sides, a formal charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and Section 302
4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

IPC was read over and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his
guilt and claimed innocence.
On a later date, charge under Sections 363/366 IPC was framed and read
over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of eleven
witnesses including the medical officer (MO in short) and the investigating
officer. The defence cross-examined the witnesses in extenso, but did not
tender any evidence in defence. After closure of the prosecution evidence,
the accused was examined under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure (CrPC in short) and was confronted with all incriminating materials
brought on record. He however denied the same. The prosecution also
exhibited several documents to augment the evidence.
On the backdrop of the rival contentions proponed at the bar, the following
points are apposite to be taken up for decision.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

1. Whether on 30-04-14, at about 7:00 am, at the rig under
Naharkatia Police Station, the accused committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim X and thereafter,
committed murder by intentionally causing her death?

2. Whether the accused kidnapped the victim from lawful
guardianship?

3. Whether the accused kidnapped or abducted the victim by
inducing her to go with him to force her to illicit
intercourse?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

To decide the case it its right perspective, it is necessary to advert to the
evidence on record.

The complainant testified as PW-1 that the accused person is known to him.
His daughter died on 01-05-14. He further stated that on 30-04-14, at about
10:00 am, his daughter X went to a shop at Gethupather Chariali along with
her brother Akash Orang. While they were returning home, the accused
called X and thereafter, Akash returned to his house. When he (PW-1)
returned home in the evening, he learnt that his daughter X did not return
from the shop. They frantically searched for his daughter, but could not find

her. On the following day, at about 9:00 am, while they were searching for X,
9)

one boy named Bablu Murari informed them that a body was floating on the
river Dihing. The river is near their house and they went towards the river
and saw the body of their daughter floating on the water by the side of the
Dihing river. One of the villagers informed the Naharkatia Police regarding the
incident. The police arrived at about 1:00 pm and hauled up the body of X
from the water. He identified his daughter's body. Police held inquest in his
presence. Ext. 1 is the Inquest-Report. The body was forwarded to Assam
Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh for autopsy. On the following day, he
lodged an ejahar with Naharkatia Police Station. The scribe of the ejahar is
Sri Rupak Deb. He further testified that he had strong suspicion against the
accused Kartik Murari of having killed his daughter as she had been taken by
him while she was on her way back home. The accused offered her ‘pop’
while she was returning home with her brother.

In his cross-examination, he testified that the accused used to visit them
frequently. The remaining part of his cross-examination will be discussed at

the appropriate stage.

10) His wife Smti. Minu Orang testified as PW-2 that the incident took place on

30-04-14. On that day, at about 6:30 am, her daughter X and her son Akash
went out together to the shop at Gethupather Chariali to purchase rice, while
she went to her workplace. When she returned home at about 5:00 pm, her
son Akash informed her that X was missing. Akash also informed her that
when he was returning along with X, the accused Kartik took X with him
assuring that he would bring her back after sometime, but X did not return
home. Her son Akash asked her to go to Kartik Murari’s house. Accordingly,
she went to the accused person’s house and asked him about her daughter.
The accused replied that he did not see her daughter. Then she searched for
her daughter at every possible place, but could not find her. On the next day,
at about 2:00 pm, Bablu informed her that a body was floating in the Dihing
river. Then she went to the river and found the body of her missing daughter.
They informed the police about the incident. The police arrived and hauled up
the body of her daughter. She noticed injuries on her daughter’s mouth and
chest. The police took her daughter’s body to the police station. On the same
day, the accused surrendered before the police and he was present in the
police station when they reached the station. The accused confessed his

involvement before the police in their presence and confessed that he killed X
by piercing her neck with a bamboo stick.

11) Her cross-examination is regarding her omission of certain statements before
the police.

12) When Aksah Orang was 10 years, he gave his evidence as PW-3. Oath was
not administered after several queries by my learned predecessor. He was
questioned about his name, age and so on so forth. His answers were found
rational and his statement was recorded without administering oath. Akash
Orang stated as PW-3 that he used to address the accused as uncle. On the
day of the incident, at about 7:00 am, he along with his sister X were
returning home, when they met Kartik and Kartik asked him to leave his sister
with him and directed him to go home. He returned to his house leaving his
sister behind with the accused. The accused took his sister along with him
and thereafter, his sister never returned. When his sister did not return, he
set out in search for her. He went to the nearby places searching for his sister
and by the time his mother returned home at 4 pm, he informed his mother
about the incident. Then he and his mother went to the accused person’s
house and asked him about X. The accused informed them that his sister was
not with him and he did not meet his sister. On the next day, his sister's body
was found in the Dihing river. His cross examination is regarding omission of
certain statements before the police which will be discussed at the
appropriate stage.

13) Smti. Ritamoni Gogoi testified as PW-4 that the accused is known to her, but
the complainant is not known to her. The incident took place about a year
back. On the following day after the incident, she heard from the villagers
that the body of a minor girl was floating on the Dihing river. She also heard
that the victim was raped and her body was flung into the river.

14) Sri Akash Jojo testified as PW-5 that the accused person is known to him. He
testified that the victim X was his younger sister. On the day of the incident,
at about 6 am, Akash and X were proceeding to the nearby shop followed by
him. On their way to the shop, he gave a lift to Akash on his bicycle and X
was walking behind them towards the shop. While returning from the shop,
they met X near a culvert and on meeting her, they alighted from the bicycle
and they all started wolking towards their house. On the way back to their
house, they met Kattik near Jadu Khat. Kartik stopped them and called X.
They left X behind with the accused and he along with Akash returned to
their house on the bicycle and he took Akash near his house and he
proceeded towards his school. On the next day, he heard that X died on the
said day. In the evening, police came to his house and asked him about the
incident. In his cross examination, he testified that his name is Akash Jojo
and he has no other name. He admitted in his cross examination that he
stated before IO that he did not know how his sister died. He also denied the
suggestion that he did not state before the IO that he met the accused at
Jadukhat.

15)Smti. Junali Bhumij testified as PW-6 that X is her elder brother's daughter.
The incident took place about a year back. On the next morning, Akash
Orang came to house and informed her that his sister was murdered by the
accused and her body was found on the river bank of Dihing river. She went
to the place of occurrence and saw the dead body of the victim. She denied
when confronted by the learned defence counsel that she did not state before
the police that on the following day of the incident, Akash came to her house
and informed that his sister was murdered by the accused and her body was
found on the bank of the river Dihing.

16) Sri Dilip Dey testified as PW-7 that both the accused as well the deceased are
known to him. The incident took place about a year back. On the day of the
incident, when he was on duty, Rabi Day informed him that X's body was
found and he was called to the police station. He went to the police station
and met the accused. When the OC interrogated the accused in his and Rabi
Dey's presence, the accused admitted that he sent the victim to fetch chana
and both of them went to the nearby jungle and ate chana and thereafter he
became desirous of having sexual intercourse with the victim, but when the
victim tried to escape during the ordeal, he pushed her down into the water
on the field and then she died and he fled from the place of occurrence.

17)In his cross examination, he testified that he could not remember the date
and time when he went to the police station. He stated that besides him,
Rabi Dey, the accused and the police personnel, there were no other people
in the police station at that time. The accused was not inside the lock-up at
that time, but he was inside a room. He could not remember the time when
the accused confessed before them. At that time, he was a VDP secretary
and he used to frequent the police station as secretary of the VDP. When

confronted by the defence, he denied that he did not state before the police
that the accused admitted before him and Rabi that he sent the victim to
fetch chana and and thereafter both of them ate chana in the nearby jungle
and he became desirous of having sexual intercourse and during the ordeal
when the victim tried to escape, he pushed her down into the water in the
field which caused her death and he escaped from the place.

18) Sri Rabi Dey testified as PW-8 that the accused and the informant are known
to him. X was the informant's daughter who died in the year 2014. It was
around 8:00 am when X's mother came to his residence and informed him
that her daughter got drowned in the Dihing river. He immediately informed
the police when the police came to their village and they accompanied the
police to the place of occurrence. The victim's body was lifted out from the
river in the presence of the police. The victim’s younger brother informed the
police that in the morning, he and his sister X went to the shop and met the
accused in the shop and the accused sent him home and took the victim with
him towards the riverside. Thereafter, the police brought the body to the
police station. On the following day, the accused surrendered before the
police. Soon after that, the OC of Naharkatia Police Station called him over
phone to the police station. He went to the police station and the Officer-in-
charge asked him to query the accused about the incident. The accused
confessed before him, the Officer-in-charge Utpal Bora and Dilip Dey that he
had taken the victim to the riverside and attempted to commit rape on her
and when the victim screamed, he caught the victim from the back and
kicked her with his knee and as a result the victim died by the impact. He
was cross examined in extenso by the defence. His cross examination will be
discussed at the appropriate stage.

19) Sri Rupak Deb testified as PW-9 that Both the accused and the victim are
known to him. The Victim X died in the year 2014. On the following day of
the incident, the victim's father Pradeep Orang came to his shop which is
situated near the Naharkatia Police Station and informed him that his
daughter X was taken away by the accused while she was returning from the
nearby shop towards her house and thereafter, the accused murdered her
inside the jungle after committing rape and flung her body into the Dihing
River. Pradip requested him to write an ejahar and accordingly he wrote the
ejahar. Ext. 2 is the ejahar where Ext. 2(1) is his signature as scribe. After

writing the ejahar, he took the thumb impression of Pradip Orang and after
lodgment of the ejahar, police recorded his statement.

20) In his cross examination, he stated that he is a petition writer and he writes
FIRs of almost all the cases which are lodged in the Naharkatia Police Station.
He did not know the date of the incident or the date when he wrote the
ejahar for Pradip Orang. He admitted that he did not make a note in the
ejahar that he read over and explained the contents to Pradip Orang. It is
also not mentioned in the ejahar that he took down Pratip's thumb
impression.

21) Dr. Subhajyoti Deka testified as PW-10 that on 02-05-14, he performed post
mortem examination on the dead body of X in connection with this case and
found the following:

Injuries: -

1. Contusion of 8 cm x 6 cm over right chest above the
nipple with underlined contusion and fracture of ribs 2,
3, 4, 5 & 6 in the mid clavicular line, reddish in colour;

2. Contusion over the left chest 6 cm x 3 cm over the
breast, underlined muscle contused, ribs fractured, 3, 4,
5 & 6 in mid clavicular line, reddish in colour;

3. One contusion over the left tempo parietal region of 6
cm x 3 cm size, reddish in colour.

On examination of the cranium and spinal canal: Scalp-

Left temporal contusion and parietal contusion of 10 cm x 8

cm. Skull- Linear fissure fracture of 8 cm in length over

tempo parietal region. Vertebrae- healthy. Spinal cord not

dissected. Brain and membrane are _ congested,

oedematous with diffused bilateral subdural haemorrhage

and sub arachnoid haemorrhage.

On examination of the thorax: Walls, ribs, cartilages-

contused and as described. Pleurae- lacerated. Both cavity

filled with liquid blood. Approximately 500 ml. larynx,

trachea healthy. Both the lungs, pericardium and heart

congested.

On examination of the abdomen: Walls are healthy.

Peritoneum, pharynx, oesophagus, mouth are congested.

Stomach and contents congested, filled with water and
sand particles approximately 1 litre. Small intestine healthy,
filled with food material and gases. Large intestine healthy,
filled with faecal material and gases. Liver and kidney
congested. Spleen healthy. Bladder is empty.

Organs of generation external and internal on examination:
Vagina is lacerated posteriorly of 6 cm x 4. cm x 1 cm depth
in 7 O’ Clock position. Slide are examined (swab taken)
from the vagina, perineum, thigh does not show presence
of spermatozoa and gonococai. Injury is recent and reddish
in colour.

22)The doctor opined that death was due to coma as a result of head injury as
described. All the injuries were ante mortem and caused by blunt force
impact and homicidal in nature. Evidence of forceful vaginal penetration is
detected. Time since death is approximately 48-56 hours. He further testified
that injury No. 3 was a fatal injury and was sufficient to cause death of a
person in the ordinary course of nature.

23) In his cross examination, he testified that the body was at the early stage of
decomposition, but it is not mentioned in the Post-mortem Report. He
testified that he did not find any injury marks on the mouth and neck of the
deceased. He admitted that he did not ascertain the age of the deceased. He
admitted that he did not conduct any other examination except that of
column 11 to ascertain rape as no such examination was either prescribed or
required. He further testified that in this case, accidental vaginal rupture can
be safely ruled out. The remaining part of his cross examination is not
noteworthy.

24) The IO Sri Ghanakanta Gogoi testified as PW-11 that on 01-05-14, at about
1:35 am, the VDP secretary Sri Rabi Dey of Tipling Garden informed him over
phone that the dead body of a minor girl was floating on the Buri Dihing
River. The OC registered a GDE No. 5 dtd. 01-05-14 and endorsed him to
investigate the case. He along with his staff proceeded to the place of
occurrence along with Circle Officer. Inquest was held over the dead body
which was identified by the father of the deceased Sri Pradip Orang. Ext. 4 is
the Inquest Report and Ext. 4(1) is his signature. He recorded the statements
of the witnesses. He also noticed injury marks on the face, neck and chest.

After recording the statements of the witnesses, he set out in search of the
10

accused person and went to his house, but the accused person was not in his
house. On the same day, at about 4 am, Sri Pradip Orang lodged an ejahar
with the police which was registered as Naharkatia PS Case No. 48/14 under
Section 302 IPC. He was entrusted with the investigation. Ext. 2 is the ejahar
and Ext. 2(2) is the signature of the OC of Naharkatia Police Station with
endorsement. He interrogated the complainant. In the evening, at about 7
am, the accused surrendered at the police station. He interrogated the
accused and arrested him. On 02-05-14, the accused confessed his guilt in
presence of three witnesses namely Robi Dey, Dilip Dey and Rupak Dey. HE
recorded the statements of the witnesses. The dead body of the victim was
forwarded for autopsy. The accused was also medically examined. He
submitted a prayer before the court for recording confessional statement of
the accused, but the accused did not confess his guilt before the Magistrate.
On 30-05-14, he collected postmortem report of the deceased. On 31-05-14,
he submitted the Charge-Sheet against the accused under Sections 302 IPC,
r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act. Ext. 5 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 5(1) is
his signature. The cross examination of the IO will be discussed and the
proper stage.
ANALYSIS OF EVIDENCE:

25) This case rests on the plank of circumstantial evidence. The circumstances
against the accused in this case are the last seen theory and extra judicial
confession. There are two boys named Akash who are witnesses to the last
seen theory. One is Akash Orang and another is Akash Jojo. Both the
witnesses are related to the victim. Akash Jojo appears to be the cousin,
because he is the son of Lakhi Jojo whereas Sri Akash Orang is the son of the
complainant Sri Pradip Orang. His is the star witness. He was with his sister
when the accused took away his sister and he is the person who had last
seen his sister with accused. Akash was only 10 years when his sister died.
His evidence clearly depicts that on the day of the incident, at about 7 am,
while he was returning with his sister, he met the accused on the way who
demanded him to leave his sister behind with him and sent him away to his
house. The accused took his sister with him while he (PW-3) returned home
leaving his sister behind with the accused. When his sister did not return, he
set out in search of his sister in all the nearby places and then he informed

his mother who reached home at about 4:00 pm. His mother Smti. Minu
11

Orang testified as PW-2 that when she returned home, Akash told her that X
was missing and that the accused took away X with him. Both mother and
son went to the accused person’s house and confronted the accused about X.
This had been testified by PW-2 & 3. The accused denied of having met X at
all, even in the presence of PW-3. The accused lied on the face of PW-3. PW-
1's evidence also clearly depicts that when he returned home in the evening,
his daughter was missing. He was also informed that the accused sent back
his son by retaining his daughter. Even after a frantic search, X could not be
traced out and the information about a dead body floating in the Buri Dihing
arrived in the morning. PW-1, 2 & 3 categorically stated that on the following
day, after X's disappearance, the body of X was floating on the Burhi Dihing.
PW-1 testified that Bablu Murari informed them that a body was floating on
the Burhi Dihing. This person was not examined as a witness.

26) PW-1 & 2 further stated that when they found their daughter’s body floating
on the side of the Dihing River, one of the villagers informed the police, and
the rest is history. The witnesses PW-4 & 6 have stated that the body of a
minor girl, i.e., X was found on the Burhi Dihing and PW-6 further stated she
heard that the accused killed the victim X.

27) Thus, it is as clear as crystal that Akash had last seen his sister X with the
accused. This is one circumstance against the accused. The victim’s brother
Akash was confronted by the learned defence counsel that he did not state
before IO that the accused ordered him to leave behind his sister with him
and sent him home. This has been affirmed by the IO in his cross
examination. PW-3 was also confronted that he did not state before the IO
that his mother went to the accused person's house searching for the missing
victim. This too was affirmed by the IO. On answer to the court, PW-3 has
affirmed that when he left his sister with the accused, he saw the accused
taking away his sister to a little distance. This last seen theory could not be
impeached by the defence. PW-3 may have failed to admit before IO,
because he was in a state of shock at the time when the body of his younger
sister who was only 9 years was found floating on the river.

28) Moreover, PW-1 & 2 were not contradicted and confronted by the defence
that Akash Orang told them that the accused demanded that he leave his
sister behind with him. PW-1 & 2 were also not confronted and contradicted

by the defence that after retaining his sister, the accused asked Akash Orang
12

to return home. Again PW-3, i.e., Akash Orang was not confronted by the
learned defence counsel that he did not state before the IO that he did not
inform his parents, PW-1 & 2 that the accused directed him to leave behind
his sister with him and he should return home. The evidence of PW-1, 2 & 3
remained uncontradicted by the IO that the accused told Akash Orang to
leave the victim with him (accused) and thereafter, after leaving the victim X
with the accused, Akash was ordered by the accused to return home. This is
the core of the case and this forms last seen theory.

29) The other eyewitness Akash Jojo who has claimed to have seen the victim
with the accused for the last time, does not inspire confidence. Akiash Orang
was silent regarding the presence of Akash Jojo at the time when he and his
sister went to the shop at Gethupather to fetch rice and when they returned
back from the shop. The parents of Akash Orang were silent regarding the
presence of Akash Jojo with their children when the accused took custody of
the victim. Akash Jojo was confronted by the learned defence counsel that he
did not state before the IO about meeting the accused at Jadukhat when he
was accompanying Akash Orang and X. This has been affirmed by the IO in
his cross examination that the PW-5 Akash Jojo did not mention in his
statement under section 161 CrPC that he met the accused at Jadukhat. It
has to be borne in mind that except confronting the witness about meeting
the accused at Jadukhat, the learned defence counsel ingeniously avoided to
cross examine Akash Jojo on any other facts. He was not cross-examined
about his omission to mention before the IO that the accused restraining the
victim with him and directing her brother to go away. The other Akash was
also not cross-examined that he failed to mention before the IO that he did
not meet the accused while he was returning home along with his sister X.
This implies that indeed the victim was last seen with accused by Akash Jojo
and there is no doubt about it.

30) Culling out the evidence, it is held that PW-1 & 2 were not confronted
regarding their omission to state before the IO that the accused held the
victim back with him while he sent away Akash Orang to his house. The
prosecution has therefore proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused
kidnapped the victim from wrongful guardianship. There is eye-witness
regarding this incident. The accused had not discharged his burden u/S 106

of the Indian Evidence Act. He offered no explanation against the fact of
13

having retained the victim.

31) It is germane to mention at this stage that the charge under Section 366/363
IPC was added and read over and explained to the accused to which the
accused abjured his guilt and claimed innocence. Thereafter, on addition of
charge as per Section 216 CrPC, the witnesses Akash Orang and Akash Jojo
and Rabi Dey were again re-examined as per Section 311 CrPC.

32) Kidnapping the victim from lawful guardianship is described under Section
361 IPC which formulates that-

Kidnapping from lawful guardianship- Whoever takes or
entices any minor under sixteen years of age if a male, or under
eighteen years of age if a female, or any person of unsound mind,
out of the keeping of the lawful guardian of such minor or person
of unsound mind, without the consent of such guardian, is said to
kidnap such minor or person from lawful guardianship.

33)In the instant case, it has been proved beyond reasonable doubt that the
accused took away the minor victim out of keeping of lawful guardian without
the consent of her guardian. It is germane to mention at this juncture that
besides a few minor contradictions, the witnesses were not contradicted and
confronted regarding their earlier statement under Section 161 CrPC before
the IO.

34) In a case of kidnapping from the lawful guardianship, the mere removal from
the custody of the guardianship is sufficient to constitute an offence. There
must not only be taking or enticing, but it must be out of the custody of the
lawful guardian. The motive or purpose is entirely out of question, but the
evidence of intention is admissible in defence for exculpation of the crime.

35)The point required to be proved for kidnapping from lawful
guardianship is that:

I. The person kidnapped was then a minor under 16 years
of age, if a male, and under 18 years of age, if a
female or that he was insane;

II. That such person was in the keeping of a lawful
guardian;

III. That the accused took or enticed such person out of
such keeping;

IV. that the accused took or enticed such person out of
14

such keeping;

36)In the case at hand, it has been proved beyond reasonable doubt that the
victim was kidnapped from the lawful guardianship. Kidnapping from lawful
guardianship, per se does not require exercise of force or enticement.
Although, enticing the victim is one of the ingredient, the definition clearly
formulates that whoever takes or entices and a minor under 16 years of age,
if a male, or under 18 years of age, if a female............ Moreover, physical
possession of the guardian is also not required to kidnap a minor. There is
not even an iota of doubt that the victim X was a minor although no
certificate was exhibited in this support. The evidence of Akash Jojo clearly
depicts that X was younger than him. At the time when he deposed in the
court, Akash Jojo was 15 years. Pradeep Orang as PW-1 categorically stated
that his daughter was 9 years at the time when she died. Smti. Ritamoni
Gogoi as PW-4 stated that the deceased victim was 6-7 years old at that
time. The Post-mortem Report Ext. 3 contains the age of the victim girl noted
down as 9 years. Inquest Report Ext. 1 also depicts that the age of the victim
was 9 years. It is clear from the evidence that age of the victim was 9 years
at the time of the alleged incident. Thus, it can be safely held that the
prosecution could prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused
kidnapped the victim from the lawful guardianship. In this case, the last seen
theory comes into play to the extent of kidnaping of the victim. The victim
was last seen by her brother Akash Urang. The accused demanded Akash
Urang to leave his sister with him and obeying the accused, Akash left his
sister behind with the accused. This part of the evidence of Aakash Urang is
supported by the evidence of PW-1, 2 & 5. PW-8 also stated that the victim
was last seen with the accused and the victim’s brother came to his house
and informed him that X was held back by the accused. Thereafter, the victim
disappeared and her body was found floating on the river. There is clinching
evidence that the accused kidnapped the victim from lawful guardianship. It
is also germane to mention at this juncture that Akash Jojo was not
confronted by the defence regarding his statement that he saw the accused
taking away the victim and the victim was last seen with accused. The last
seen theory qua the kidnapping of the victim remains unimpeached.

37)Now, it has to be ascertained whether the prosecution could prove the

remaining charges leveled against the accused. The remaining charges of
15

rape, abduction for the purpose of sexual exploitation and murder has to be
proved on the basis of the extra judicial confession available in the evidence
and the circumstantial evidence.Extra judicial confession is a part of
circumstantial evidence, where circumstantial evidence is ‘Genus’ and extra
judicial confession is the ‘Specie’ The last seen theory vis a vis the place and
time of occurrence is also one of the attendant circumstances in this case.
The incident took place on 30-04-14 and the body was discovered on
01-05-14. PW-1 has mentioned the date and time of the incident and this
corroborates the date and time of the incident mentioned in the FIR. The
PW-2 also correctly mentioned the date and time of the incident. Akash
Orang is a minor witness and he could mention only the time of the incident.
Akash Jojo has also correctly mentioned the time of the incident and he is
also a minor witness.

38) If we carefully scrutinize the evidence, it is evident that the accident took
place on the morning of 30-04-14 at about 7 a.m. The victim was held back
by the accused and Akash Orang was asked to return home. Thereafter, the
victim went amiss. The victim's body was recovered on the next day, i.e., on
01-05-14 at about 1 p.m. Her body was recovered when it was noticed by the
local residents floating on the Dihing river. Her family members who were
frantically searching for her received the message from Bablu Murari that her
body was floating on the Dihing river.

39) The learned counsel laid stress in his argument that the person Bablu Murari
was not examined as a witness. I do not think this is a discrepancy in the
evidence. There are other witnesses who have categorically stated that the
victim's body was found floating in the Dihing river. PW-1, 2, 3, 4 & 6 testified
that the victim’s body was found floating on the Dihing river. The learned
defence counsel relied on a decision of Honorable The Supreme Court in
Kanhaia Lal vs. State of Rajasthan [(2014) 4 SCC 715] wherein it has
been held that:

"The theory of last seen- the appellant having gone with the
deceased in the manner noticed hereinbefore, is the singular piece
of circumstantial evidence available against him. The conviction of
the appellant cannot be maintained merely on suspicion, however
strong it may be, or on his conduct. These facts assume further

importance on account of absence of proof of motive particularly
16

when it is proved that there was cordial relationship between the
accused and the deceased for a long time.”

40)In the instant case, the time gap when the victim was last seen with the
accused vis-a-vis the recovery of her body from the Dihing river is more than
12 hours. To fasten the guilt on the accused squarely on the last seen theory,
the time gap has to be minimum. It has been consistently held by Honorable
The Supreme Court that anything may happen in between, when the time
gap is wide and the last seen theory comes into play only when the time
gape is minimal. Apart from the last seen theory, this case is also supported
by extra judicial confession.

41) Regarding extra judicial confession, the learned counsel for the accused
emphatically submitted in his argument that the accused is alleged to have
confessed in the police station in presence of stock witnesses. He has
emphatically submitted that Dilip Dey, Rabi Dey and Rupak Orang frequents
the police station. They are stock witnesses.

42)In my opinion, Dilip and Rabi are VDP members and Rupak Dey is a petition
writer. It is true that the extra judicial confession in this case is not found
reliable. The extra judicial confession is one of the circumstances against the
accused. The two circumstances in the instant case, i.e., the last seen theory
and extra judicial confession does not form a chain of circumstantial
evidence. Apart from these two circumstances, there is no circumstance
closely connected with the principal fact sought to infer from these
circumstances. Moreover, PW-7 Dilip Dey and PW-8 Rabi Dey _ testified in
their cross examination that the accused confessed in their presence of
having killed the victim after committing rape on her. But at that time, they
were in the police station and the police personnel were present. They denied
that they were inside the police lock up when the accused confessed his guilt.
Considering their evidence, it is held that the confession of the accused in the
police station in presence of PW-7 & 8 cannot be considered as extra judicial
confession. It will be fatal to take this confession as one of the circumstances
against the accused. In his statement under Section 313 CrPC, the accused
retracted his confession. The extra judicial confession of the accused to PW-2
cannot be considered, because she is X’s mother.

43)The testimony of PW-1 reveals that the accused lured his daughter by

offering her a 'Pop' while she was returning homewards with her brother. This
17

enticement of the accused person is not backed by evidence of any other
witness. The conduct of the accused person after the incident, has been
projected by PW-2 & 3's evidence. When they went to the accused person's
house and confronted him about the missing victim, the accused flatly
refused that he had not seen the victim that too he lied in presence of
Aakash Urang whom he ordered to return home leaving his sister behind with
him. But this cannot be considered as one of the circumstances.
44)Regarding the injuries sustained by the victim, the defence counsel
emphasized in his argument that all the witnesses described the injuries of
the victim in a contradictory manner. Minu Orang testified that the accused
confessed before her in presence of the police that he killed her daughter by
piercing her neck with a bamboo stick. In my opinion, although this evidence
is not reflected by the doctor’s evidence, yet the evidence of the IO clearly
depicts that when the victim was hauled up from the river, he noticed injury
on her neck. Ext. 1, i.e., Inquest Report also depicts that the deceased had
injuries on her neck. Moreover, the Post-mortem Report Ext. 3 clearly depicts
that the dead body was swollen which indicates that the body was
decomposed. This injury on the neck must have gone unnoticed by the
doctor who performed the post mortem examination. Again PW-7 testified
that the accused confessed before him that when he attempted to commit
rape on the victim and when the victim tried to escape, he pushed her down
into the water of the field and she died thereafter. This evidence regarding
the injury of the victim cannot be discarded in toto. The post mortem report
clearly reveals the broken ribs indicate that the victim's ribs must have broken
when she was pushed into the water. The PW-2 also noticed injuries on her
daughter’s chest when her daughter's body was hauled up from the river.

45) The evidence of PW-8 also clearly depicts that the accused confessed in his
presence that when the victim tried to raise alarm, he caught hold of her
from her backside and kicked her and the victim died by the impact. This also
cannot be discarded in toto. Although I have not relied on the extra judicial
confession of the accused before PW-7 & 8, yet the victims injuries clearly
depicts that she sustained grave injuries. The Post-mortem Report Ext. 3
clearly depicts that there was evidence of rape which has been testified by
doctor as PW-10. There were contusion and fracture of ribs above the nipple,

contusion and fracture of left chest over the breast and contusion of the left
18

tempo parietal region were detected on autopsy by PW-10. It is unfortunate
that the little girl was thrashed in such a brutal manner by the author of the
crime.

46) Considering that the wide time gap when the victim was last seen with the
accused vis a vis the recovery of her dead body, the accused cannot be held
guilty of the offence of murder. It is true that there is no explanation by the
accused as warranted u/S 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, but the
accused denied the victim's presence with him on the previous day.

47) Culling out the evidence, it is held that there is a strong suspicion on the
accused. There is extra judicial confession made by the accused in the
presence of PW-7 & 8 and also the accused confessed before the victims
mother of having pierced her neck with a stick, yet the manner in which the
confession was made, cannot be taken into account as circumstances arising
against accused. No inference can be drawn from such extra judicial
confession to saddle the accused with the crime.

48) Recapitulating the entire evidence, it is held that the accused is not
found guilty of offence under section 366/376/302 IPC. The
prosecution failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused took away or enticed the minor, out of the keeping of the
lawful guardian, in order that the minor would be forced or seduced
to illicit intercourse or knowing it to be likely that she would be so
forced or seduced.

49) The chain of the circumstance snaps at the stage when the time gap
widens between the time when the victim was last seen with the
accused vis a vis the time when her body was discovered by the
local public. Similarly, the prosecution failed to prove beyond
reasonable doubt that the accused is the author of the crime who
committed rape on the victim although there is glaring evidence
that the victim was brutally raped and thereafter killed. Similarly,
the prosecution also failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that
the accused committed murder by causing the death of the victim
with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause
her death.

50) The victim was brutally killed. The perpetrator of the crime caused

her murder by intentionally causing her death. Her injuries depict
19

relentless assault by the author of the crime. There are injuries of
sexual assault. The corpus delecti is evident. The body of the victim
depicts tell tale signs. Yet, the accused cannot be condemned,
because the circumstances does not form a complete chain to fasten
the guilt on the accused. The accused gets the benefit of doubt. He
is also not held guilty of committing penetrative sexual assault on
the victim. The accused is thereby acquitted from the charges u/S
302/366 IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act on benefit of foubt.

51)The accused has been held guilty of the offence under Section 363 IPC.
There is not even an iota of doubt that the victim was raped brutally and also
she was attacked brutally by the perpetrator of the crime. After she was
raped, she was assaulted relentlessly in an inhuman manner. Thereafter, to
conceal the evidence, the victim was flung into the river. The accused who
had retained the victim with him and took her out of the keeping of her
lawful guardian, had the responsibility to return the minor victim to the
custody of her lawful guardian. His failure to return the victim to her guardian
resulted in such a gruesome crime of diabolical nature. Whether the accused
had a hand in this crime or not, is engulfed by doubts. I believe he deserves
a sentence to full term of the imprisonment formulated under Section 363
IPC.

52)I have heard the accused on the question of sentence and he has prayed for
leniency. He submitted that he is the father of two minor children and his
confinement will make the life of his children and family members miserable
as he is sole bread winner of the family.

53)I have considered the facts and circumstances of this heart rending case. I
believe a sentence to RI (rigorous imprisonment) for 7 (Seven) years will
meet the ends of justice.

SENTENCE:

54)The accused Sri Kartik Murari is convicted under Section 363 IPC and is
sentenced to undergo RI (rigorous imprisonment) for 7 (seven) years and
pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand) only and in default of
payment of fine, to undergo RI for 2 (two) months. The period of detention
already undergone by the accused during investigation, and trial is set off
with his custodial sentence.

55) The victim’s parents deserve compensation and so this case is referred to the
20

DLSA, Dibrugarh for assessment of the compensation under the Victim
Compensation Scheme.

56) Furnish free copies of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.
Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 10" day of
July, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
21

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 Sri Pradip Orang;
PW-2 Smti. Minu Orang;
PW-3 Sri Akash Orang;
PW-4 Smti. Ritamoni Gogoi;
PW-5 Sri Akash Jojo;
PW-6 Smti. Junali Bhumij;
PW-7 Sri Dilip Dey;
PW-8 Sri Rabi Dey;
PW-9 Sri Rupak Deb;
10. PW-10 Dr. Subhajyoti Deka; and
11. PW-11 SI Ghanakanta Gogoi.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Inquest-Report;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Post-mortem Report;
4. Ext. 4 Sketch-Map; and
5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

peen fe SF wf

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
