IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE NAGAON.
Present- A. Rahman, LL.M, AJS

Special (POCSO ) case No- 93(N) / 2018.
U/S- 6 of the POCSO Act.

Parties -

-V/s-
Raja Rabi Das
R.K. Road , Metor-patty
PS- Nagaon.

Charge framed on - 14-12-2018.
Evidence recorded on -2-3 -19,4-4-19, 13-5-19,15-5-

19
29-5-19, 27-8-19
Argument heard on - 17-09-2019
Judgment delivered on - 23-09-2019
Appearance -

For the prosecution- Mr. M.J. Neog , learned special
prosecutor.

For the defence - Mr.G.B. Goswami, learned Advocate.

J U D G M E N T

The instant Special case was registered after police had
submitted charge sheet in Nagaon PS case No- 2628/18 U/S-4 of
the POCSO Act.

The case depicts a very shameful and sadistic story how a minor

girl aged around eight years was sexually violated by her own
paternal uncle.
The case unfolded in the FIR dated 7-8-2018 lodged by Smt.Sita
(actual name withheld) is that on 4-8-2018 , at about 2PM ,
taking advantage of absence of her husband and _ herself,
accused, her brother in -law (husband’s own younger brother)
lured her victim daughter Miss -X (name withheld to the house of
Bhola Robi Das. None of the family member of Bhola Robi Das
was present. The accused severally committed sexual
intercourse with her minor daughter. After committing the
heinous crime, he threatened her with dire consequence if she
discloses the occurrence to at her house. The victim daughter of
the informant on 4-8-2018, at about 5-30 am disclosed that her
private part was bleeding as her uncle , the accused had
committed bad-work with her.

She also found inner garment (panty) of her daughter was
stained with blood.

On receipt of the FIR , the Officer in Charge of Nagaon Police
Station registered the aforementioned case and entrusted Smt
Prunima Buragohain (PW-7) to investigate the case. During
investigation, the victim child was sent to Nagaon B.P. Hospital
for her medical examination and treatment and she was
produced before the Magistrate for recording her statement. The
lO also visited the place of occurrence and recorded the
statement of the material witnesses. The accused was also
arrested and forwarded to the court with a prayer for sending
him to jail custody.

At the conclusion of the investigation, PW-7 collected the
medical examination report of the victim child and submitted
charge sheet against the accused U/S-4 of the POCSO Act.

The accused detained in jail as UTP submitted before this court
that he has no means to engage an advocate for his defence.
Accordingly, considering his oral prayer, Mr. G.B. Goswami ,
empanelled as legal aid counsel of DLSA, Nagaon was appointed
for the defending the accused during trial.

After hearing both sides and considering the materials on
record , charge U/S-6 of the POCSO Act was framed read over
and explained to the accused person to which he has pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried.

To substantiate the charge against the accused , prosecution
examined as many as eight witnesses including the Medical
Officer who examined and treated the victim child and the
investigating police officer.

The prosecution witnesses were duly cross examined by the
defence side. The accused was examined U/S-313CRPC . The
defence plea is of total denial of the prosecution allegation. The
accused person declined to adduce defence evidence.

| have heard Mr.M. J. Neog, learned Special Prosecutor as well as
Mr.G. B. Goswami , learned legal aid counsel for the defence.
Also thoroughly and meticulously scrutinised the evidence.

Now the point which requires determination is whether the
accused committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon
the minor victim child as such committed offence punishable
U/S- 6 of the POCSO Act?

DISCUSSION & DECISION WITH REASONS THEREOF

1. Prosecution examined the complainant and her victim child as
PW-1 and PW-2 respectively. Smt. Sunita Basfor (PW-3), Smt
Hema Basfor (PW-4) and Sri Santosh Basfor (PW-5) are the
neighbour of the complainant as well as the accused.

2. Evidence of PW-1 was recorded on 2" March 2019. She has
deposed that the occurrence took place about five -six
months back, during “Bol-Bhom” festival last year. On the
relevant morning at around 5-30 am, her minor daughter( PW-
2) aged 8 years , reading in No-1 Amola patty L.P. School,
came out for urinating. She was crying. On being asked as to
why she was crying , PW-2 stated that her uncle Raja Robi Das
(accused) had committed bad works ( means -committed
sexual intercourse) with her.

3. She saw vagina of PW-2 was bleeding and her wearing inner
garment ( panty) was stained with blood. She washed the
panty of her daughter. He daughter (PW-2) stated that two
days back , Raja Robi Das had taken her to the house of Bhola
Robi Das and had done bad-work with her. At that time family
members of Bhola Robi Das were absent as they had gone to
Bihar. After coming to know the details of occurrence form
PW-1 , she raised hue and cry, her neighbours gathered
immediately. She informed about the occurrence to her
husband and family members. When they asked the accused
about the occurrence, he confessed his guilt and started
crying. The house of the accused is within the same campus
of her house. She has deposed that on the same day she
lodged Ext-1 ejehar (FIR) at the police station.

4. In cross examination , she has made it clear that as soon as
she heard the occurrence from her daughter , she raised hue
and cry , neighbouring people Hemowa Basfor, Sunita Basfor
Sanjoy Basfor and Santosh arrived. Quite surprisingly, the
defence suggested PW-1 that the accused asked her daughter
to touch his penis for which the case was lodged.
5. Before recording the testimony of PW-2 who is the victim child
, It was ascertained that she could rational answer to the
questions put to her. So she was found competent to testify.

6. In order to get the logical sequence of the facts of the case,
evidence of PW-2 was recorded in the form of question and
answer with utmost care to eliminate any leading question of
the prosecution side. She stated that on the relevant day her
paternal uncle (accused) took her to the house of her grand
father which is a little distance from her house. The door of
the house was closed by tying with a rope as her grandfather
had gone to Bihar. Her uncle took her inside the house and
was doing some thing by removing her pant. When she tried
to raise alarm , he pressed her moth. Blood came out from
her Susu ( means vagina). Her uncle asked her not to disclose
this fact to others. As her vagina was bleeding , she disclosed
the occurrence to her mother after two days. Her mother
disclosed the entire occurrence to the neighbours who handed
over her uncle at the police station. PW-2 has further stated
that she was taken to Civil hospital where she remained
admitted for two /three days. She stated the occurrence to
Magistrate -madam. She denied the suggestion that her uncle
-Raja Robi Das was not at home and he did not do any bad
work with her.

7. Sunita Basfor (PW-3) , Hema Basfor (PW-4) and Santosh
Basfor (PW-5) are the neighbours of PW-1 as well as the
accused. Their evidence were recorded on 13" May and 15"
May 2019. They have deposed almost in the same verbatim.

8. According to PW-3, about 8/9 months dating back , on the
relevant morning, while she went to take bath in the tube-wel,
she notice husband of PW-1 was grilling his brother, accused
Rajsa Robi Das as to why he had committed rape on his minor
daughter (PW-2). She also noticed bleeding from the vagina of
PW-2 who was telling that accused had given rupees twenty
to her bring paan-mashala. Thereafter, he took her to her
maternal uncle’s house and committed bad work with her.
She has further testified that she along with PW-4 in formed
the occurrence to the neighbours. They came _ and
apprehended the accused and handed over him at the police
station. They also brought PW-2 to the police station.
Thereafter, PW-2 was sent to Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital for
treatment.

9. According to PW-4, the occurrence took place in the month of
August 2018. She deposed that on the relevant morning, she
was sleeping at her house after returning from “ Bhole-bom”
(a religious walk). Her sister in law (PW-1) stated to her that
accused Raja Robi Das had committed rape on her daughter
(PW-2) for which her vagina was bleeding. She also noticed
bleeding on her said private parts. On being asked, PW-2
disclosed that her uncle-accused had committed bad work
with her about two days back at the house of her maternal
uncle. PW-4 also stated that they informed the neighbours
about the occurrence. They took PW-2, at first to the police
station and then to Nagaon B. P.Civil hospital wherein she was
admitted for two days in connection with her treatment.

10. In cross examination, PW-4 replied that prior to the
occurrence , there were frequent quarrels between husband
of PW-1 and the accused. Their relation was not cordial.

11. PW-5 also deposed almost in the same line with PW-3 &
PW-4. He deposed that in the month of August 2018 , ona
certain morning hearing hue and cry at the house of accused
Raja Robi Das , he along with other neighbours rushed to his
house. On being asked PW-1 disclosed that her daughter her
daughter was crying because she could not pass urine and
she was panic. On being asked PW-2 stated that her uncle
Raja Robi Das had done bad-work with her about two days
back at the house of her maternal uncle. He also found PW-2
was physically unwell. They handed over the accused at
Nagaon police station. PW-2 was sent to Nagaon B.P. Civil
hospital for medical treatment.

12. In cross examination, he has replied that there were
frequent quarrels between the accused and the family of PW-
1 and their relation was not cordial.

13. PW-6 Dr. Julina Hussain examined PW-2 at Nagon B.P.
Civil Hospital on 6-8-2018, at about 4-20pm and found the
followings -

14. Identification mark-
(a) A mark on the chest.
(ob) A scar mark at the left hand.

Height =110 cm. Weight-18 kg.

Teeth -12/12 Breast- Not developed.
Auxiliary hair- Not Fully developed. Pubic hair- Not fully
developed.

Hymen- Ruptured with blood stained. Vaginal injury-absent.
Marks of violence- absent. Clothings-frok.

LMP- Not attained puberty.

Smear examination vide Regd No-328/R No-25878/18 reported
by her shows no spermatozoa in the vaginal smear.
X-ray Examination - Not done.

Urine test for HCG Test- Not done.

Opinion-

There is evidence of recent sexual intercourse.

2. There is recent evidence of physical injury on her private
parts.

Hymen ruptured and there is active bleeding for which she was
admitted in gynae-ward for her treatment.

15. PW-6 has proved that Ext-2 is the medial report and Ext-
2(1) is her signature.
16. PW-7 being the investigating police officer has given the

details of the investigation. She has deposed that on 6-8-
2018, she was posted as Sub-Inspector of police at Nagaon
Police station. On that date, Shri Nabin Mahanta ,the Officer
in Charge of the police station ,having registered the case no-
2628/18 entrusted her to investigate the case. Having found
the victim child (PW-2) at the police station, she gave a
medical requisition and sent her to Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital.
Public also handed over the accused at the police station on
the same day. The accused was arrested. On 7-8-2018, she
visited Nagaon Civil Hospital , took stamen of PW-1, the
mother of the victim (PW-2) at Nagaon Civil Hospital. The
victim could not be examined PW-2 as she remained admitted
at the hospital She accompanied by PW-1 visited the PO and
examined Hema Basfor , Sunita Basfor, Sanjoy Basfor and
Rinku Barman. On 10-8-2018, the victim (PW-2) had been
released from the hospital and her statement was recorded.
She also got recorded the statement of the victim through the
court. On 16-8-2018, she collected the medical examination
report of the victim child. On 27-8-18, she visited Amolapatty
L.P. School and seized the admission register containing the
admission of the victim by preparing a seizure list vide Ext-3.
The Admission register was given in the zimma ( custody) of
the headmaster. She has confirmed that Ext-3(1) is her
Signature. On completion of investigation, she laid Ext-4
charge sheet against accused Raja Robi Das u/S-6 of the
POSCO Act. She has confirmed that Ext-4(1) is her signature.

17. During cross examination, she has admitted that she did
not give medical requisition for age determination of the
victim girl. She has stated that she submitted charge sheet on
the basis of the age mentioned in the FIR. PW-2 was in the
companion of her mother (PW-1) during 10-8-2018 to 13-8-
2018. She has denied all the relevant suggestions.
18. CW-1 Sarat Tamuly is the Headmaster of No-2 Amola-
patty L.PSchool. He has deposed that PW-2 was a student of
class [Ka] of his school in 2018. He has deposed that Ext-5
(compared with Original ) is the said Admission register
containing the admission of PW-2. Ext-5(1) is the relevant
page and Ext-5(2) is the admission entry of PW-2 where her
age is mentioned as 6+ years.

19. In cross examination , he has replied that birth
certificate of PW-2 was not submitted and as per information
of the guardian , her age was mentioned.

20. CW-2 Aleya Begum being the Asstt teacher of the
aforesaid school has testified that PW-2 was admitted in class
Ka of her school in 2018. She has proved that Ext-5(2) is the
relevant admission entry of PW-2 and her age was entered as
6 +( six-plus) as per information of her mother. She has
proved that police seized the Admission register vide Ext-3
and Ext-3(2) is her signature. After seizure , the admission
register was given in her zimma.

21. In cross examination, she replied that there is no
counter sign of DEEO in Ext-5. She has denied the suggestion
that age of PW-2 as mentioned Ext-5(2) is not correct.

22. CW-3 Smt Bibharani Saikia Nath is the ward-
commissioner and a seizure witness. She deposed that she is
one of the member of SMC of No-2 Amola-Patty L.P. School.
Police seized Admission Register in her presence vide Ext-3
seizure list. Ext-3(3) is her signature.

23. CW-4 Smt.F.Y. Loi , learned JMFC, Nagaon deposed that
on 13-8-2018, she recorded the stamen of the victim (PW-2)
in connection with Nagaon PS case No-2828/18 registered
U/S-4 of the POCSO Act. After ascertaining that the victim is
capable to testify, her statement was recorded without
administering oath as she 8 (eight years) only. CW-4 has
confirmed that Ext-6 is the statement and Ext-6(1) & Ext-6(2)
are her signatures. The victim was escorted and identified by
Smt Purniam Bura Gohain (PW-7).

24. In cross examination, she has admitted that she has not
mentioned the name of the victim in the relevant order sheet
and Ext-6. She denied the suggestion that Ext-6 is not the
statement of PW-2.

25. As per Ext-1, the occurrence took place on 4-8-
2018. Prosecution did not submit any birth certificate
of the victim-child (PW-2).

26. PW-1 being the mother has deposed the age of
PW-2 was eight years on 2" March 2019 being the
date of her deposition in the court. During her cross
examination, the said evidence of PW-1 remains
unchallenged. Although she has not stated the date of
birth of her daughter but she being the mother has
fairly stated her exact daughter. The medical evidence
of PW-6 and Ext-2 clearly proves that on 29%" May when
PW-2 was examined, she did not attain her puberty.
Generally, a girl attains her puberty at the age of
eleven /twelve years. So, it can be easily inferred that
PW-2 was below twelve years on the date of her
medical examination.

27. The evidence of CW-2 and Ext-5(2) reveals that
PW-2 was admitted in class-(ka ) of No-2 Amolapatty
L.P. School in 2018 and her age was six years plus.
And the age was recorded as per information of her
mother.

28. So in the light of the above discussion of
evidence and observation, it is held that at the
relevant time of occurrence, PW-2 was much below
twelve years.

29. The accused is the own paternal uncle of PW-2.
She has given the details of the occurrence. She has
stated that her uncle (accused) took her to the house
of her dada( grand father) who was not at home. He
had gone to Bihar. In side the house , her uncle Raja
Robi Das removed her inner garment and did
something. When she wanted to cry , he pressed her
mouth. Thereafter blood came out from her Sushu
(vagina).He asked her not to disclose the fact to
others. Palpably , she being a minor girl and own niece
under gone sever mental trauma. She could never
thought that her own uncle would do such nasty work
with her. Definitely because of feeling shy , defamed
and mental trauma , she could not disclose the
occurrence to her parents. CW-6 has proved Ext-2
statement of PW-2 was recorded by her. The evidence
of PW-2 Is consistent with Ext-2. There is nothing in
her cross examination to show that she was tutored to
say against the accused. After one/two days of
occurrence , on the relevant morning when PW-2 was
crying as she found trouble in urinating, then on being
asked by her mother (PW-1) , she disclosed the
occurrence to her. Thereafter , PW-2 disclosed the
occurrence to PW-3, PW-4 & PW-5 that her uncle Raja
Robi Das committed bad work with her. They also
found her physically unwell. PW-1, PW-3 & PW-4 also
noticed bleeding on the vagina.

30. Aforesaid medical evidence of PW-6 and Ext-2
proves that vagina of PW-2 was ruptured for which
side wall was stitched. PW-6 clearly opined that she
found evidence of recent sexual intercourse as hymen
was ruptured with active bleeding. Thus medical
evidence also corroborates the testimony of PW-2 that
she was raped.

31, It appears from the evidence that there were
quarrels between the parents of PW-2 and the
accused. But there is nothing to show that PW-2 being
a minor niece of the accused would falsely implicate
him. At the same time, the parents of PW-2 can not be
expected that at the risk of future life of PW-2 and the
family reputation , they would falsely project their
daughter as victim of the heinous crime against the
accused who Is their family member.

32. As per S-29 of the POCSO Act , the court presumes that
the accused has committed the penetrative sexual assault
upon the victim child (PW-2).

S35. What crystallises and proved from the above
appreciation and analysis of evidence is that the prosecution
has proved beyond any iota of doubt that the accused
inserted his private organ (penis ) inside the vagina of PW-2
who was a minor girl below twelve years at the relevant time
of occurrence. Therefore , as per S-5(I) of the POCSO Act , the
accused had committed the offence of aggravated
penetrative sexual assault. | convict the accused U/S-6 of the
Act for committing the said offence.

34. Victim’s compensation: |t is proved from the evidence
that PW-1 is a maid servant. Undoubtedly, PW-2 is not only
from a very poor family but also from backward -class of the
society. Because , her parents belong to Harijon community
( Sweeper class). The affect of the crime upon PW-2 is really
very tremendous. She has under gone serious mental trauma
and horrible stage at the dawn of her life. She lost her
chastity and suffered physically.

35. So , in my judicious view, for rehabilitation and her
future education etc , she deserves to be adequately
compensated.

36. Accordingly, | in exercise of power U/S-357(A) Crpc read
with Rule-7 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences
Rules 2012, recommend that DLSA, Nagaon shall pay
adequate, fair and reasonable compensation to PW-2 in her
Bank Account of any Nationalised Bank. If the Bank Account
of PW-2 is not opened already, the secretary DLSA shall help
her open the account. At least 60% of the total compensation
amount shall remain as fixed deposit till PW-2 attains her
majority.

37. Order on sentence :-
10

| have heard the accused on the point of sentence. The
accused has stated that he is innocent and did not commit the
offence as alleged. He is a poor labourer and was maintaining his
old mother. So he has prayed for exoneration from punishment.

38. The aggravating circumstances of the case is that PW-2
is his own niece of the accused. Instead of treating her as like
his own daughter , and guarding her safety and security, he
committed sexual intercourse with her only to satisfy his lust
and pleasure. Because of the crime committed by the
accused , PW-2 has lost her virginity at her child hood days.
Her right to live with dignity in fact is shattered because of
the crime.

39. Mr.G.B. Goswami , learned legal aid counsel for the accused
has submitted that at the time of occurrence , the accused was
19 years young boy. There is no evidence on record to show his
previous conviction in any offence. So considering his age, the
accused should be leniently dealt with in the sphere of sentence.

40. Considering the young age of the accused, the impact of the
crime not only on the victim but also in the society , the accused
is sentenced to 14 years RI and fine of RS-1000/only in default
further RI for one month. The period which the accused has
already spent as UTP in jail shall be set off from the quantum of
substantive sentence. In my considered view, the said sentence
would meet the ends of justice.

41. Furnish a certified copy of this judgement free of cost to the
convicted accused forthwith.

Also send a copy of this judgment to the Secretary DLS Nagaon
and District Magistrate each immediately for information and
necessary action.

Before parting with the judgement | appreciate the legal
assistance rendered by the learned legal aid counsel Mr. G.B
Goswami. His remuneration will be paid by Secretary DLSA,
Nagaon within stipulated time.

Judgement is declared and delivered in the open court under my
hand seal of this court this 23 Day of September 2019.

Judgement prepared and corrected by me (A Rahman,
AJS )
(A Rahman, AJS ) Special Judge ,
Nagaon

Special Judge , Nagaon
11

APENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses
PW-1 Sita.
PW-2 Miss - X (Victim Child)
PW-3 Smti. Sunita Basfor.
PW-4 Smti. Hema Basfor.
12

PW-5 Sri Santosh Basfor.
PW-6 Dr. Julina Hussain.

PW-7 Smti Purnima Buragohain.

Court Witnesses

CW-1 Sri Sarat Tamuly.

CW-2 Smti. Aleya Sultana

CW-3 Smti. Bibharani Saikia Nath
CW-4 Smti. F.Y Loi

Prosecution Exhibits
Ext-1 ejehar
Ext-2 is the medial report
Ext-3 seizure list
Ext-4 charge sheet
Ext-5 School admission register
Ext-6 is the statement of Smti. F.Y Loi
Defence Witness and Exhibits
NIL
(A Rahman, AJS )
Special Judge , Nagaon
