eCourtIS copy

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy, AJS

Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State
Learned Counsel for the defence

Charge framed on
Evidence recorded on

SPECIAL CASE NO.17/2019
U/S- 8 of POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM

Vs

Md. Sirajul Hoque
S/O. Md. Saher Ali
Vill- Maspara

P.S. Bilasipara
Dist. Dhubri

beceeaes Accused person.

Mr. Manjit Ghose, Special P.P
Ms. Rita Modak

11.09.2019

16.11.2019; 30.11.2019;
21.12.2019; 17.01.2020.

Argument heard on 11.02.2020
Judgment pronounced on 18.02.2020
UDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution is that one xxx, the father of the

victim, lodged an FIR alleging that on 27.12.2018 at about 3 p.m
accused Siraju Hoque committed rape on his minor daughter xxx.

2. On receipt of the FIR, a case under Section 4 of POCSO Act was
registered and after completion of the investigation, a charge sheet
was laid against the accused Md. Sirajul Hoque for commission of

offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
2 eCourtIS copy

3. The accused person was summoned and on his appearance,
copies of the relevant documents were furnished to him. After hearing
both sides, charge under Section- 8 of POCSO Act was framed against
the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

4, In the course of trial prosecution examined 8 (eight ) witnesses.
At the closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was
examined U/S 313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and
the accused declined to adduce any evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION $:-

i) Whether the accused is guilty of the offence under
Section 8 of the POCSO Act?

DECISION AND REASONS :

6 Pwl Ms. xxx, deposed that informant is her brother. Accused is
her son in law (husband of niece). About 1 year back, Maryam, the
wife of accused, called xxx, the victim, to her mother’s house. The
victim then went to the house of Maryam. Pw 1 deposed that she
suspected some foul play hence, after a while, she followed the victim
to the residence of Maryam wherein she saw the accused felling the
victim on bed and about to commit sexual intercourse. She’ then
Slapped the victim and thereafter she left the house of Maryam. She
informed her brother and he lodged the FIR.

7. In cross examination, Pwl1 denied the suggestion that she did
not state before the Police that she saw that accused felling the victim
on bed and about to commit sexual intercourse and that she slapped
Sahiton and that thereafter she left the house of Maryam. Pw 1 also
denied the suggestion that she was not present at the residence of
Maryam. Pwl has also denied the suggestion that in her statement
under Section 161 CrPC she had_ stated that through the bamboo
walls of the house she had seen accused and victim grabbing each
other and dancing.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy

8. Pw2 xxx, the victim, deposed that she knows the accused.
About 1 year back, Maryam called her at about 3 p.m to her house.
She was reluctant since there was a religious programme in their
house but Maryam insisted and took her to their house. In her house,
the accused grabbed her and fell her on a bed. Thereafter, he gagged
her mouth and touched her lower garments. At this juncture, her
Aunt, xxx arrived and she escaped.

9. In cross examination, Pw2 has denied the suggestion that she
did not state in her statement under Section 161 CrPC that the
accused grabbed her and fell her ona bed and that thereafter, he
gagged her mouth and touched her lower garments. Pw2 has also
denied the suggestion that she stated before the Police that accused
kissed her.

10. In cross examination Pw2 however admitted that she had not
screamed when the accused grabbed her.

11.  Pw3 xxx, the father of victim, deposed that about 1 year back
there was religious function at his house. During the evening hours
his sister, xxx, informed that accused had held the hands of his
daughter in the house of Maryam. The VDP Secretary informed the
police and later he lodged an FIR. He had put thumb impression in the
FIR.

12. In cross examination of Pw3 deposed that he had not seen the
incident. Pw 3 admitted that he did not state before the Police that
Jamena Bibi informed him that accused had held the hands of his
daughter in the house of Maryam.

13. Pw4 Md. Edrish Ali deposed that about 1 year back, in the
evening hours, he had seen that villagers have detained the accused
and the victim in the residence of xxx, the father of victim. He heard
that accused had called the victim in the residence of his wife. He
immediately informed the VDP Secretary. The VDP Secretary informed

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
4 eCourtIS copy

the police. Police came and after conducting investigation took the
accused with them.

14. In cross examination, Pw4 deposed that he had personally not
seen what happened between accused and the victim inside the house
of wife of accused.

15. Pw5 Musstt. Morion Bibi deposed that the accused is her
husband. About 1 year back her husband was detained by the
villagers and beaten up for mis-behaving with victim. She also
deposed that victim is the daughter of her paternal uncle. There is a
dispute, between her mother and her paternal uncle, over paternal
property hence xxx, the father of victim, used the victim to frame the
accused in a false case.

16. Pw 5 was declared hostile by the learned Special P.P but nothing
incriminating could be elicited.

17.  Pwé6 Md. Jalil Sheikh deposed that about 1 year back he was
going towards the residence of xxx, the father of victim, for attending
a religious function. When he reached near the residence of VDP
Secretary he saw the brother of victim, telling the VDP Secretary that
a boy has committed rape on his sister. When he reached the
residence of xxx, the father of victim, he saw the accused has been
held up by the villagers. Thereafter, the villagers asked the victim and
her paternal Aunt about the occurrence to which they stated in front of
villagers that accused had tried to open the under garments of the
victim. Thereafter, the police was informed and accused was handed
over to police.

18. In cross examination, Pw6 deposed that he had not stated
before police that he heard the incident from the Asmot. Pw6 has
denied the suggestion that he did not state before police that he was
going towards the residence of xxx, the father of victim, for attending
a religious function. Pw6 has also denied the suggestion that he did
not state before police that the brother of victim had informed that her

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy

sister has been raped by the accused. Pw6 has also denied the
suggestion that he did not state before police that Jamina Bibi and the
victim had stated before the villagers that accused had tried to open
the under garments of the victim.

19. Pw7 xxx, the mother of victim deposed that about 1 year back,
they were having religious function at their residence. At about 5 PM,
her sister-in-law informed her that her daughter is confined in the
residence of her other sister-in-law, Abiron Bibi. She immediately
went to the residence of Abiron Bibi and saw that her daughter was
crying. Her daughter informed her that accused, son-in-law of Abiron
Bibi, had taken out her under garments. She caught the accused and
shouted for her son. Her son arrived and the accused was
apprehended. Later, the villagers handed over the accused to police.

20. In cross examination, Pw7 has denied the suggestion that she
did not state before police that she had seen her daughter crying.
Pw7 has also denied the suggestion that she did not state before
police that her daughter informed her that accused, son-in-law of
Abiron Bibi had taken out her under garments. Pw7 has also denied
the suggestion that she did not state bfore police that her son arrived
and the accused was apprehended. Pw7 has also denied the
suggestion that there is a property dispute between them and the
Abiron Bibi.

21. Pw8 Sri Subhash Chandra Koch deposed that on 27.12.2018 he
was posted as In-charge at Balajan Police Out Post. On that day he
received information that a boy has been kept confined in a village at
Duramari. He visited the place of occurrence and apprehended the
accused. He also recorded the statement of witnesses. Thereafter, the
father of victim lodged a formal FIR in connection with which Kokrajhar
PS. Case No.636/2018 U/S 4 of POCSO Act was registered and
investigated. The victim was sent for medical examination but she
refused examination. Her statement was recorded U/S 164 of CrPC.
Having found sufficient materials against the accused Sirajul Hoque,
he submitted charge sheet against the accused for commission of

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
6 eCourtIS copy

offence U/S 8 of POCSO Act. Exhibit-2 is the charge sheet and Exhibit-
2(1) is his signature. Exhibit-3 is the FIR received by him. Exhibit-3(1)

is his endorsement.

22. In cross examination Pw8 deposed that PW3 did not state before
him that Jamina Bibi informed him that accused had held the hands of
his daughter. Victim did not state before him that accused fell her on
the bed. PW1 did not state before him that she had seen the accused
felling the victim on the bed and attempted to commit sexual
intercourse. According to investigation no materials U/S 4 of POCSO
Act were found against the accused. There was no eye witness except
Jamina Bibi. He had not seized wearing apparel of the victim.

23. Coming now to the charge under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, |
would like to point that Section 29 of the POCSO Act provides that
where a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting
to commit any offence under Sections 3, 5, 7 and Section 9 of this Act,
the Special Court shall presume, that such person has committed or
abetted or attempted to commit theoffence, as the case may be
unless the contrary is proved.

24. In Noor Aga v. State of Punjab, (2008) 16 SCC 417 it was held by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court that the provision for reverse burden is not
only provided for under the special Acts but alsounder the general
statutes like the Penal Code. The Evidence Actprovides for such a
burden on an accused in certain matters, as,for example, under
Sections 113-A and 113-B thereof. It furtherheld that enforcement of
law, on the one hand, and protection ofcitizen from operation of
injustice in the hands of the lawenforcement machinery, on the other,
is, thus, required to bebalanced. The constitutionality of a penal
provision placing burdenof proof on an accused, thus, must be tested
on the anvil of theState's responsibility to protect innocent citizens.
The court mustassess the importance of the right being limited to our
society andthis must be weighed against the purpose of the limitation.
The purpose of the limitation is the reason for the law or conduct
which limits the right.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
7 eCourtIS copy

25. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Noor Aga (supra), added
thatpresumption would operate in the trial of the accused only in
theevent the circumstances contained therein are fully satisfied.
Aninitial burden exists upon the prosecution and only when it
standssatisfied, would the legal burden shift. Even then, the standard
ofproof required for the accused to prove his innocence is not ashigh
as that of the prosecution. Whereas the standard of proof required to
prove the guilt of the accused on the prosecution is“beyond all
reasonable doubt” but it is “preponderance ofprobability” on the
accused.

26. In the present case, a reading of the evidence of pw 2,
reproduced above, would clearly show that accused grabbed her and
also touched her undergarments. The evidence of pw 1, when seen
from the perspective ofher statement, under Section 164 CrPC, as also
from the cross examination, indicates that she stood her ground so far

as the funamental allegations are concerned.

27. Learned defence Counsel argued that the prosecution evidence
is not believable because of inherent contradiction in the evidence of
witnesses. She argued that the evidence of Investigating officer, Pw8
has established the contradiction appearing in the testimony of
principle prosecution witnesses of Pwl and Pwz2.

28. | have appreciated the defence argument in the light of
evidence adduced.

29. The principle prosecution witness is the victim herself who
deposed that the accused dragged her and fell her on a bed and
thereafter he touched her lower garments.

30. Now, so far as the evidence of Pw 8, Investigating officer, is
concerned, the defence did not confirm the contradiction, if any,
appearing in the testimony of Pw2. It is seen that the testimony of Pw2
remain unimpeached. So being the status of evidence of Pw2 she is
found reliable witness. The onus placed on the accused by Section 29

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
8 eCourtIS copy

of POCSO Act has not been discharged either by elicting relevant facts
from the prosecution evidence or by adducing defence evidence.

31. Now Section 7 of the POCSO Act defined sexual assault as

follows :

“Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus
or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or
does any other act with sexual intent with involves physical

contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault”.

32. The act of the accused in grabbing the victim thus amounts to
an act with sexual intent involving physical contact without
penetration and it is therefore a sexual assault within the meaning of
Section 7 made punishable Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

33. The accused is thus found guilty of the offence under Section 8
of the POCSO Act.

34. The point for determination is answered accordingly.

35. | have heard the accused on the point of sentence and he
having maintained his innocence submitted that he has been framed
with the help of fabriciated evidence.

36. The maximum punishment for the offence under Section 8 of
POCSO Act extends to imprisonment upto 5 years. In view of the facts
of this case, | believe a sentence of three years of rigorous
imprisonment with fine of Rs 20,000 in default to undergo simple

imprisonment for 3 months would meet the ends of justice.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
9 eCourtIS copy

ORDER

Accused Sirajul Hoque is convicted for the offence under Section
8 of the POCSO Act and sentenced to three years of rigorous
imprisonment with fine of Rs 20,000 in default to undergo
simple imprisonment for 3 months.

A free copy of the judgment be furnished to the convict.

A copy of the judgment be sent to District Magistrate, Kokrajhar

A copy of this judgment be sent to District Legal Services
Authority, Kokrajhar, for considering payment of adequate
compensation to the victim.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this 18™ day of
February,2020.

Dictated by
Special Judge Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
10 eCourtIS copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-

Exhibit-1 Statement
Exhibit-2 Charge sheet
Exhibit-3 FIR

2. Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1 Ms. Jamena Bibi

P.W.2 Xxx victim

P.W.3 xxx, father of victim

P.W.4 Md. Edrish Ali

PW.5 Musstt. Morion Bibi

P.W.6 Md. Jalil Sheikh

P.W.7 xxx, mother of victim

PW.8 Sri Subhash Chandra Koch
4.Defence Witness Nil
5._Court witness Nil

Special Judge
Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
