IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Bilasipara.

Special (POCSO) Case No- 26 of 2019

u/s 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.

Date of framing charge

Date of recording evidence

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Advocates Appeared:

For the State of Assam

For the defence

State of Assam
-Vs-
Jalbahar Ali
eseeeeeeees accused person

= 10-01-2020

= 30-01-2020

a 04-02-2020

- 04-02-2020

:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam.

:- Mr. R. Dasgupta,

Ld. Advocate for the defence.

JUDGMENT

1. This case is under section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual

Offences Act. So, the name of the victim is not mentioned and she is,

hereinafter, referred to ‘x’.

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Rejina Begum, the informant,

lodged an ezahar with the Bilasipara police station on 08-05-2018 informing

that ‘x’ is the daughter of the informant. ‘x’ was only 7 ¥2 years old. Gram

Contd. to page no. 2
[2]

Panchayat Office situated nearby her house. At the time of occurrence i.e on
07-05-2018, there was NRC hearing. Many people gathered at the said
place. The accused Jalbahar Ali, taking advantage of gathering of people,
took ‘x’ to his car where he committed rape on ‘x’.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused.
3. The Bilasipara police station received the ezahar and registered as
Bilasipara police station case no. 446/18 under section 6 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act. The case was investigated and having
found prima facie under section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act against the accused Jalbahar Ali, laid the charge sheet before
the court for trial.
4. The accused Jalbahar Ali, hereinafter called the accused, appeared in
this case and he was furnished copy. Charge was framed under section 4 of
Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, POCSO Act in short, against
the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the accused to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined 4 (four) witnesses, namely-

1. Rejina Begum P.W-1
2. Aminal Hoque P.W-2
3. Anuja Parvin P.W-3
4. ‘x’/the victim P.W-4
6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was

recorded where he denied all allegations levelled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution witnesses and also declined to adduce evidence

in defence.
Z. Heard argument for both sides.
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i. Whether accused on 07-05-2018 at about 01.00 P.M at village
Ananda Nagar under Bilasipara_ police station, committed
penetrative sexual assault on ‘x’, aged about 7 1% years old and
thereby committed offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act?

Contd. to page no. 3
[3]

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF
9. In this prosecution case P.W-1 Rejina Begum is the informant, P.W-2
Aminal Hoque is the husband of the informant, P.W-3 Anuja Parvin is the
daughter of the informant and P.W-4 ‘x’ is the alleged victim.
10. Since P.W-1 Rejina Begum is the informant and P.W-4 ‘x’ is the
alleged victim, so, both are the prime witnesses in this case. Let’s see the
evidence of this two witnesses, at first.
11. P.W-1 Rejina Begum has stated in her evidence that she is the
informant in this case. She lodged the ezahar, Ext-1 against the accused. But
she does not know the name of the accused. ‘x’ is her daughter. The Gram
Panchayat Office, Bangalipara is nearby to her house. There was hue and cry
on the day of occurrence. Accordingly, she went there. The people present
there took her to the police station and asked her to lodge the case against
the accused. She did not hear anything from her daughter.

In her cross P.W-1 has stated that the ezahar was not read over to
her. She did not know what was written in the ezahar.

12. P.W-4 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that the informant is her mother.
Nobody did anything on her. She gave her statement before the Magistrate,
Ext-2 but she failed to recollect what she stated before the Magistrate.

Cross examination of P.W-4 was declined by the defence.

13. Thus, minute scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-4, it appears
that P.W-1, the informant does not know the name of the accused. She does
not know against whom she lodged the ezahar. According to her the people
asked her to lodge the ezahar. So, she lodged it. Even, she did not read the
ezahar, nor the ezahar was read over to her. This implies that she does not
know the content of the ezahar.

P.W-4 ‘x’ has vehemently denied to do anything on her by anyone.
She failed to recollect what she stated before the Magistrate. Thus, the
evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-4 is not incriminating against the accused.

14. Now let's see the evidence of other witnesses.

P.W-2 Aminal Hoque has stated in his evidence that the informant is
his wife. He knows the accused. On the day of occurrence he went to Circle
Office, Bilasipara. When he returned, he got to know that there was
altercation amongst the police and the people. The people gathered there
asked the informant to lodge the ezahar. There had occurred nothing against
his daughter.

Contd. to page no. 4
[4]

Cross examination of P.W-2 was declined by the defence.
15. P.W-3 Anuja Parvin has stated in her evidence that the informant is
her mother. ‘x’ is her younger sister. She does not know the accused. She
knows nothing about the occurrence.

Cross examination of P.W-3 was declined by the defence.
16. | Thus, minute scrutiny of evidence of P.W-2 and P.W-3 shows that
P.W-2 is the father of the informant and P.W-3 is the another daughter of
the informant. Both of them have denied to occur anything on ‘x’. So, their
evidence is not inculpatory against the accused.
17. Thus, the prosecution evidence is not sufficient and reliable to prove
the offence as alleged against the accused. The prosecution evidence is
found dearth of merit.
18. | The prosecution has failed to prove it’s case u/s 4 of POCSO Act
against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
19. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 4 of POCSO Act.
20. The accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

The bail bond of accused stands cancelled and the bailor is
discharged from all liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 04" day of
February, 2020 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)
Special Judge, Bilasipara
Transcribed & typed by,
S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.
APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

P.W-1 Rejina Begum
P.W-2 Aminal Hoque

Contd. to page no. 5
[5]

P.W-3 Anuja Parvin
P.W-4 ‘x’/the victim

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :-
Ext-1 Ezahar,
Ext-2 Statement of ‘x’ recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT WITNESS - NIL
COURT EXHIBITS i NIL

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
