 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 29/2019.

(U/S — 448/376 of IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.)

State of Assam
-Versus-
Rae ce Accused.

PRESENT :- ShriD. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance _and particulars :-

For the State ‘- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person :- Sri J.U. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.
Date of recording evidence :- 06.11.2019.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC :- 08.11.2019,

Date of Argument -- 08.11.2019.

Date of Judgment - 08.11.2019,

JUDGMENT

a. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 11.08.2015 the
informant Monir Uddin Mazumder lodged an ejahar with the I/C, Bilaipur Police
Outpost, alleging that on 07.08.2015 at about 12 Noon, taking the advantage of
absence of himself and his wife, the accused person Alim Uddin came to his house
and tried to commit rape on his minor daughter, the victim and thereby the accused
outraged her modesty.

ee On receipt of the ejahar, after making GDE No. 140 dated
11.08.2015, the same was sent to the O/c, Lala Police Station and accordingly, Lala
PS Case No. 387/2016 under Sec 448/354, IPC was registered and during

COVE Sconce Pig.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 29/2019.
«Du

investigation, police visited the place of occurrence, recorded statements of
witnesses, got the victim medically examined and also got her statement recorded
under Sec. 164, CPC and after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet
against the accused person Alim Uddin under Sec. 448/354, IPC showing him

absconder.

3. On appearance of accused person Alim Uddin, copies of

relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to him.

4. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence
Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record, having found sufficient
grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed the offence, the
formal charges have been framed against the accused person Alim Uddin under
Sec.448/376/ of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. The charges so framed
were read over and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined the victim
and her father, the informant only. Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public
Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence Counsel, the prosecution evidence was closed. The
accused person is examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has denied the
allegations levelled against him by the prosecution. The defence did not adduce any
evidence.

6. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused person on 07.08.2015 at about 12
Noon at village Dhalcherra under Lala PS committed house trespass by entering into
the house of the informant with intent to commit certain offence and thereby, the
accused committed an offence punishable under Sec. 448, IPC ?

IIT vcchanisin’ P/?.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 29/2019.
= Ze

(ii) Whether the accused person after entering into the
house of the informant, committed rape on her daughter and thereby, the accused
has committed the offence punishable under Sec. 376, IPC?

(iii) Whether the accused person committed penetrative
sexual assault on the victim, the minor daughter of the informant, and thereby, the
accused person has committed the offence punishable under Sec. 4 of the POCSO
Act,2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :-

i. The victim (PW.1) has deposed that at the relevant time, she
was aged 20 years. The accused person did not commit any bad act with her but her
father had land dispute with the accused and out of that, he filed the case against
the accused with false allegation. The victim has further deposed that during
investigation, police got her medically examined and she made her statement before
Magistrate on being tutored by her father.

In cross examination, the victim has stated that she has got 2
children and she is living peacefully with her husband.

8. The PW.2, the informant Sri Monir Uddin Mazumder has
deposed that on the relevant day, when he returned home, her daughter i.e. the
victim told him that the accused pelted stones in their house and thereafter, his (the
informant) brother in law came and he took the informant to the police station and
asked him to put thumb impression on some paper and accordingly, he did so. It is
further deposed by the informant that out of misunderstanding, the case was filed

against the accused and the accused did not do any bad act with his daughter.

9. In the instant case, though the informant, who is the father of
the victim, has penned implication against the accused in the ejahar but in the
evidence the victim has clearly divulged that the accused did not commit any bad act
with her and her father filed the case against the accused with false allegation out of
land dispute. It is also made clear by the victim that she made her statement before
COE idlissiigs P/Y4.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 29/2019.
-4-

the Magistrate on being tutored by her father. Moreover, the informant also in his
evidence has made it clear that out of misunderstanding, the case was filed against
the accused. As such, when the victim herself, whose evidence bears much
significance to decide such type of cases, has not supported the prosecution case, I
do not find any cogent reason to hold the accused person guilty for the commission
of the offence, alleged.

10. In fine, the accused person Alim Uddin is acquitted of the
offence charged under Sec. 448/376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.
Set him at liberty forthwith.

11. The bail bond of the accused stands discharged.
12. The Special (POCSO) case is disposed of accordingly.

The judgment is delivered today, on this the 8” day of
November, 2019.

Special Judge, Hailakandi.

 

Dictation is taken and _ transcribed by Baharul Islam Choudhury,
Stenographer Grade I.

CONT, ciclsicives P/5.
Appendix :-
Oral evidences :-
PW. 1, the victim,
PW. 2, the informant.
Documentary evidence :-
Nil.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

Special (POCSO) Case No. 29/2019.

<q
\
Special Judge, Hailakandi
