Page 1 of 10

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. i 02 of 2018

(Under Section 366(A) of the IPC read
with section u/s 18 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 141/18)

Present :- Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
Prosecutor State of Assam
-Vs-
Accused :- \ Sri Biren Borah,

Son of Late Khudeswar Borah,
Resident of Missamari

Police Station - Missamari
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam

Date of framing Charge :- = 23/02/2018

Date of Recording Evidence :- 08/03/2018 and 09/03/2018

Date of examination of accused u/s 31 :- 09/03/2018

GARI.

Date of Argument :- 09/03/2018

Date of Judgment :- 09/03/2018

Counsel for the Prosecution :- Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Counsel for Accused :- Mr. H.P. Sedai, Advocate.

 
Page 2 of 10

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Biren Borah is put for trial for allegation
of charge under Section 366(A) of the IPC read with section 18 of the
POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or
about 5 p.m. of 10-01-2018 while the victim Miss X, the minor girl under
the custody of informant, along with the daughter of the informant went
to informant’s working place in 180 Military Hospital, at about 7 p.m.,
the said victim was missing from her working*placey Informant and her
daughter vigorously searched her but they could not trace out the
whereabouts of the said girl. At about 8 p.m. the police of Missamari
Police station dropped the said girl\in their house. The police also
recovered the accused. The informant came to know from the said girl
that the accused has forcefully) took her in a scooty with intent to do
bad thi9ngs towards. Gabharu river. The informant also came to know
that the local people\handed over the accused and victim to police.

Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the informant Smti Tiluttoma Baruah
before the O/C of Missamari police station on 10-01-2018. On receipt
the ejahar, the Officer-In-Charge of Missamari Police Station registered
the case vide Missamari P.S. Case No. 08/18 u/s 366(A) of IPC read
with section 18 of POCSO Act. After completion of usual investigation,
the O/C Missamari Police Station filed charge sheet u/s 366(A) of IPC
read with section 18 of POCSO Act against the accused Sri Biren Borah.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, I framed charge u/s 366(A) of IPC read with section 18 of
POCSO Act, against the accused Sri Biren Borah and particulars of the
charge was read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not

guilty and claims to be tried.

 
Page 3 of 10

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined as many as
4(four) witnesses which includes the complainant, alleged victim and
most material witness i.e. the daughter of the complainant. After
examination of the aforesaid witnesses, learned counsel for the accused
submitted to close the evidence as to the statement of the victim no
way supported the prosecution case. Learned Special Public Prosecutor
also conceded. From the statement of the victim, complainant and other
witnesses, I think that prosecution case would not develop even if
examined the other witnesses. Speedy trial is the right of.the accused
person. Considering the materials and facts as.narrated above, the
prosecution evidence is closed. Accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C.
All the allegations made against the accused_and evidence appears
against the accused are put before him for explanation where he denied

the allegation and evidence and declined to give defence evidence.

6. I have heard argumentsput forwarded by learned advocate of
both the parties.

7. The point for‘decision in this case is that -

(1) “Whether on or about 67 p.m. of 10-01-2018, at 180
Military Hospital under Missamari Police station, the accused
induced the victim, a minor girl under the age of 18 years, to
go from the hospital or to do any act or acts with the intent
that the said victim may be forced(seduced) to illicit
intercourse with the accused and thereby committed an
offence punishable under section 366(A) of the IPC?

(2) “Whether on the same, date time and place the accused
attempted to commit any offence punishable under the
POCSO Act or to cause such an offence to be committed, and
in such attempt, does any Act towards the commission of the
offence, on Miss X (14 years of age) and thereby committed
an offence punishable U/S 18 of the POSCO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence

on record.

 
Page 4 of 10

9. PW 1 Smti Tiluttoma Baruah, the complainant, stated that the
incident took place on 10-01-2018 at evening time. At the relevant she
was on duty at Army Hospital at Missamari. During that time her
daughter Rinki Baruah along with Miss X came to the hospital to meet
her at about 7 PM. Rinki at first went to wash room and other girl Miss X
remained in the outside of the hospital. At that time said girl was about
14 years. About 7.15 PM she along with her daughter Rinki went out
from hospital, but, they did not find said girl at the outside of the
hospital. Then she informed the neighbor that they could.find out the
girl and then she along with neighbor searching,the said girl. At that
time, her younger daughter Momi informed her‘over phone that police
took the girl to their house and she also asked_her that police informed
her to visit the PS immediately. Accordingly, she went to the Missamari
PS. On being asked, Moina told herspointing to Biren Borah that said
Biren Borah forcefully took er in® his Scooty towards the side of
Gabharu River through the jungle where she jumped out from the
Scooty. When the said. girl returned from the said place, she meet one
army personnel at. TCP point. Then she filed the written ejahar. Ext.1 is
the said ejahar and_Ext.1(1) is her signature. Then police sent Moina for
medical examination and thereafter took her to the Court for recording

her statement under Section 164 CrPC and then took her in her custody.

In cross-examination, she admitted that said girl came to her
house on 20-08-2017. She knows the victim/girl for long time. She also
belongs to Sibsagar and she also belongs to Sibsagar i.e. why she kept
her as her own daughter. They supposed to get her admission in the
month of January, but, the said incident took place and therefore, she

could not get her admission.

10. PW 2, Smti Rinki Baruah, stated that the incident took place on
10-01-2018 at about 7/7.30 PM. At the relevant time, she along with
Miss X, aged about 14 years, were went to the hospital where her
mother was doing service by walk. At hospital, she asked Miss X that

she went to inside the hospital and asking her to company her. But, she

 
Page 5 of 10

did not accompany her. Thereafter, she along with her mother went out,
but, they did not find Miss X there. They asked the guard of the
hospital, whether the said girl went out or not. He replied that that the
girl gone out to the right side of the road. They vigorously searched the
girl, but could not find her. She also searched her in her house, but,
could not find her. Thereafter, police came to their house and called
them to the police station. Accordingly, they went to the police Station
and meet Miss X there. On being asked Miss X told them that one
person (pointing to Biren Bora) forcefully taken her away in his scooter
towards the jungle way. She was afraid as she thinks that accused

person may kill her. Thereafter, her mother filed the ejahar.

In cross-examination she stated“that Miss X resides in their
house for about four months. Police recorded her statement on 10-01-

2018 at police station.

11. PW 3 Md. Nazir Ahmed Laskar, stated that the incident took
place in the month of. January,2018. He knows complainant Tilutoma
Baruah. On the day. of incident, at evening time, the complainant
informed him over.phone that their domestic helper Miss X, 14 years old
was missing from the hospital. Inspite of vigorous search they could not
find herxIn-the meantime police recovered said Miss X and took her to
the,house of complainant along with the accused and asked them to the
police station. Accordingly, he went to the police station. Then at the
police station he came to know from Miss X, she told that accused asked
her where to go, she replied she want to go to her house and therefore,
accused boarded said Miss X into his Scooty towards another road. The
said girl again stated him that the girl repeatedly request accused to
drop her down, but, the accused did not drop her and took her towards
the jungle and then the girl jumped from the Scooty. During that time
one Saiful Haque on being seen the girl and incident, informed the

police.

In cross-examination, he admitted that the complainant is his

neighbor. He has good relation with the complainant. He does not have

 
Page 6 of 10

any personal knowledge how the girl was missing. About 6.30 PM the

complainant informed him about the incident.

12. PW 4, the victim Miss X deposed that the incident took place in
the last winter. In the evening time she along with Jan Baideo went to
hospital to meet her Baideo Tiluttoma Baruah. Jan Baideo is the elder
daughter of complainant Tiluttoma Baruah. Near hospital she was
scared that she may be injected, therefore, she left the place. Then she
played in a swing outside the hospital. Thereafter, she was returning to
the house of Tiluttoma Baideo where she lived. On the way, the accused
met her who was coming in a scooty and asked where are you going.
She replied him that she wants to go home, then he asked her, where is
your home. Then shereplied him that her house is at Garubandha. Then
he willingly told her that he took to: Garubandha to her house. Though
initially, she refused to go with him, but he forcefully took her in his
scooty. She was supposed-that.he has taken her to her house at
Garubandha and thought that-he is a good man. He repeatedly asked
her name. He took her towards a jungle then she asked him where he
has taken her. Then, he replied that he has taken her to her house. As
the road does notylead to her home so out of fear she has jumped from
the scooty of the accused. Out of fear she was very loudly crying and
met. one »ygentleman and told him about the incident. Then that
gentleman took her to her house. Then she reported the matter to her
Baideo. Then she filed the ejahar. After instituting the case, she has
been medically examined. Thereafter, her statement was recorded
through learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. In the said statement she

put thumb impression.

In cross-examination, she stated that she came to the house of
her Baideo before three months from the incident. She came to the
house of Baideo to reside there and also do some domestic works there.
Accused did not even touch her, only she afraid. The scooty was ride in
very slow speed. After some time, out of fear she jumped from the

scooty of the accused. Accused came from her backside. During that

 
Page 7 of 10

time there was a darkness set in. After jumping from the scooty of the
accused at a distance she met a gentleman. He took her to her house.
At home she met Tiluttoma Baideo and Janba. On the said night she
stayed at her house. On that very day, the said gentleman took her to
the police station. On that day at the police station other than that
gentleman and police personnel none was there. Then police
interrogated her. She also admitted that she has not she has not stated

to police that accused forcefully took her in his scooty.
13. | These much is the evidence of the prosecution.

14. The accused pleads total denial while his statement was

recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. he also denied to give.defence evidence.

15. Ihave heard the arguments put forwarded by learned counsel of
both sides.

16. To prove the charge u/s 366 A of the IPC, the prosecution must

prove —

“(i) that .a.minor girl below the age of 18 years is

induced by the accused;

(ii):that she is induced to go from any place to do
any act, and

(iii) that she is so induced with intent that she
may be or knowing that it is likely that she will
be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with

another person.”

17. In this type of case, the evidence of the victim is very much
important. As discussed herein before, the victim no way stated any of
the ingredients to attract the section 366 A of the IPC. Besides, the
complainant also failed to state any of the ingredients of the aforesaid
alleged charged section. Therefore, the charge u/s 366 A of the IPC is

fails.

 
Page 8 of 10

18. Secondly, to prove the charge u/s 18 of the POCSO Act, the

prosecution must prove that —

“To convict the accused section 18 of POCSO Act the prosecution
must prove that accused attempted to commit any offence punishable
under this act or to cause such an offence to be committed, and in such

attempt, does any Act towards the commission of the offence.”

But here in this case, the complainant who is the mother of the
victim no doubt a reported witness. She came to._know about the
incident only her victim daughter reported about _the.incident to her.
According to her on the day of incident at about 7.15 PM she along with
her daughter Rinki went out from hospital) but, they did not find said
girl at the outside of the hospital. Then she informed the neighbor that
they could find out the girl and then she along with neighbor searching
the said girl. At that time, her younger daughter Momi informed her
over phone that police took the girl to their house and she also asked
her that police informed her to visit the PS immediately. Accordingly,
she went to the Missamari PS. On being asked, Moina told her pointing
to Biren Borah ‘that-said Biren Borah forcefully took her in his Scooty
towards the side of Gabharu River through the jungle where she jumped
out fromthe Scooty. But the allegation of forceful taking of victim by
the,accused is contradictory as she did not state neither before the I.O.
nor before anybody. Other than that the complainant did not state
anything. She simply stated that on suspect she filed this case. The
victim PW 4 also stated that at the relevant time while she was
returning to the house, the accused met her who was coming in a
scooty asked her where she is going and she replied that she wants to
go home. Then he asked her where is your home. Then accused
willingly told her that he took her to Garubandha to her house. Though
initially, she refused to go with him but he forcefully took her in his
scooty. The accused forcefully taking in his scooty as stated in the court
by the victim was not stated to the I.O. neither to the learned

Magistrate while her statement was recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Therefore,

 
Page 9 of 10

the allegation of taking forcefully by the accused is nothing but
contradictory. This is a vital contradictions other than that statement
victim no way stated anything against the accused as to any ingredients
of the alleged charge u/s 18 of the POCSO Act. Therefore, the charge
u/s 18 of the POCSO Act is also failed.

19. In view of the aforesaid discussions, I am bound to hold that
the prosecution has failed to prove any of the charge levelled against
the accused person beyond any reasonable doubt. As such, the accused
Sri Biren Borah is entitled to get acquittal on benefit of doubt. Hence,

accused Sri Biren Borah is acquitted and set him.at liberty forthwith.
20. ‘The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

Given under my Hand and Seal*of ‘this Court on this the 9" day
of March, 2018.

(A.K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated. and corrected by me.

(A.K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Transcribed and typed by me.

(R. Hazarika)Steno.

 
Page 10 of 10

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 - Smti Tiluttoma Baruah , complainant
Prosecution Witness No.2 i. Smti Rinki Baruah,
Prosecution Witness No.3 i Md. Nazir Ahmed Laskar,
Prosecution Witness No.4 ' Victim

EXHIBIT

Ext. 1 : Ejahar.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR.
