1 Special Case No.79/2018.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE : LAKHIMPUR :
AT NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

PRESENT- M.A.Choudhury,
Special J udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

SPECI AL CASE NO.79/ 2018.
Under Section - 366(A) IPC and U/s 4 of the POCSO Act.

PARTIES

State of Assam. ... Complainant.
-versus-

Sri Babu Baruah. ... Accused.

ADVOCATES APPEARED IN _ THE CASE :

Mr. Madhab Gogoi, Special Public Prosecutor. ... For the State of Assam.
Mrs. Piju Baruah, Advocate. ... For the Accused.
Date of framing of charge. :22.06.2018.
Date of taking evidence. :30.07.2018 and 06.08.2018
Date of hearing Argument. :06.08.2018.
Date of delivery of J udgment. :06.08.2018.
|] VUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution may in brief describe thus :
On 19.02.2018, the informant, Sri Doley Deori lodged an
ejahar with Narayanpur Police Station to the effect that the victim X is his minor
daughter aged about 17 years. On 18.02.2018 at about 8.30 pm, the accused, Sri
Babu Baruah kidnapped his minor daughter victim X, aged about 17 years from
his house as there was love affairs between them. The accused, Sri Babu Baruah
after kidnapping the victim X could not take her into his house and kept her in an
unknown place.
Contd...
2 Special Case No.79/2018.

2. On receiving the ejahar, the Officer-in-charge of
Narayanpur P.S. registered a case vide Narayanpur P.S. Case No.42/2018 under
Section 366 IPC and handed over the charge of investigation of the case to SI

Padmadhar Buragohain.

3. The police started the investigation of the case. In
course of investigation, the |.O. visited the place of occurrence and prepared
sketch map of the place of occurrence. In course of investigation, the 1.0. got
recorded the statement of the victim X u/s 164 CrPC. The 1.0 got the victim X
examined by a doctor of North Lakhimpur Civil Hospital. The 1.0 recorded the
statement of the witnesses u/s 161 CrPC. Thereafter, the 1.0 arrested the
accused, Sri Babu Baruah and forwarded him before the court. After completion
of the investigation of the case, the |.0. found sufficient incriminating materials
against the accused, Sri Babu Baruah under Section 366 IPC and under Section 4
of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, the 1.0. submitted the charge-sheet against the
accused, Sri Babu Baruah u/s 366 IPC and u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.

4. The accused, Sri Babu Baruah made his appearance
before the court and necessary copies were furnished to him. After hearing the
learned advocates of both sides and perusing the case record, sufficient
materials under Section 366(A) IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act have
been found against the accused person in the case record. Accordingly, charges
under Section 366(A) IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act were framed
against the accused, Sri Babu Baruah. The charges were read over and explained

to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. In course of trial, the prosecution side examined 5 (five)
witnesses.

6. The recording of the statement of the accused person
under Section 313 CrPC is felt not necessary as because the prosecution
witnesses examined have not implicated the accused person in their evidence
regarding commission of any offence.

7. The accused person led no evidence in his defence.

Contd...
3 Special Case No.79/2018.

8. Heard Argument from the learned advocates of both

sides.

9. Perused the case record and the evidence adduced by

the prosecution side in the case very carefully.

10. The points for determination in this case are :

(1) Whether the accused, Sri Babu Baruah on 18.02.2018
at 8.30 pm at village Borchapari under Narayanpur Police Station kidnapped the
victim X, a minor girl below the age of 18 years to go from her house along with
him with intent that she might be or knowing that it was likely that she would be
forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with him?

(11) Whether the accused person after kidnapping the

victim X, a minor girl committed penetrative sexual assault upon her person?

11. DECISION AND REASONS

The prosecution side examined 5 (five) witnesses. PW.1 is
the victim X of the case. PW.2 is Sri Doley Deori, who is the father of the victim
X. PW.3, Smti Sontara Deori is the mother of the victim X. PW.4, Sri Biseswar
Deori is the uncle of the victim X. PW.5, Sri Bidya Deori is the cousin of the victim
X,

PW.1, the victim X stated, in her evidence, that she knows
the accused, Sri Babu Baruah, whose house is situated about 2 km away from
her house. She, in her evidence, stated that about four months back at day time
she went to Tenga Pathar in the house of one Smti Manisha Deori without
informing anyone of her house. She, in her evidence, also stated that when she
had not come back to her house on that day, then her father, Sri Doley Deori
lodged an ejahar with the Police Station. She also stated that she had not eloped
with the accused, Sri Babu Baruah. She further stated that the accused had not
performed any sexual intercourse with her. She, in her evidence, further stated
that her father lodged the ejahar on misconception.

Contd...
4 Special Case No.79/2018.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.1, the victim X. On
careful scrutiny of the evidence of PW.1, | do not find any incriminating material

in her evidence against the accused person regarding commission of any offence.

PW.2, Sri Doley Deori, in his evidence, stated that the
victim X is his daughter. He knows the accused, Sri Babu Baruah, whose house is
situated little away from his house in the same village. He, in his evidence, also
stated that about four months back on a day, his daughter, the victim X without
informing in the house had gone to the house of her friend, Manisha Deori in the
village of Tenga Pathar. As she had not returned back on that day, he lodged the
ejahar with the Police Station on misconception against the accused person. He

also stated that thereafter, his daughter came back to her house.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.2, the informant of the
case. On careful scrutiny of the evidence adduced by the informant (PW.2), | do
not find any incriminating material in his evidence against the accused person

regarding commission of any offence.

PW.3, Smti Sontara Deori is the mother of the victim X.
She, in her evidence, stated that she did not know the accused, Sri Babu Baruah
and she has seen the accused today only. She, in her evidence, also stated that
about four months back in a day, her daughter, victim X had gone to visit the
house of her friend, Manisha Deori at village, Tengapathar without informing in
the house. She further stated that as her daughter made delay in returning back
into the house, her husband (PW.2) lodged the ejahar with the Police Station on
misconception. She, in her evidence, stated that the accused had not kidnapped
her daughter. She further stated that the accused had not done any bad act with
her daughter.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.3, the mother of the
victim X. On careful scrutiny of the evidence adduced by the PW.3, | do not find
any incriminating material in her evidence against the accused person regarding
commission of any offence.

Contd...
5 Special Case No.79/2018.

PW.4, Sri Biseswar Deori, in his evidence, stated that the
victim is his niece. He stated that he did not know the accused, Sri Babu Baruah.
He also stated that he has been living in the same homestead with his elder
brother, Sri Doley Deori, who is the father of the victim X. He, in his evidence,
also stated that about four months back the victim X without informing in her
house had gone to visit the house of her friend, Manisha Deori at village,
Tengapathar. He further stated that as the victim X had not returned back to her
house on that day, so his brother, Sri Doley Deori lodged the ejahar with the
Police Station. Thereafter, the victim X came back into the house. He, in his
evidence, further stated that the case has been lodged against the accused

person by his elder brother on misconception.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.4. On careful scrutiny
of the evidence adduced by the PW.4, | do not find any incriminating material in

his evidence against the accused person regarding commission of any offence.

PW.5, Sri Bidya Deori, in his evidence, stated that he did
not know the accused person, who had been present in the court and also his
whereabouts. He also stated that the victim X is his first cousin. He further stated
that he did not know anything regarding the occurrence of the case. At the time
of occurrence, he was at Itanagar as he has been serving as an employee in a
private firm at Itanagar. He, in his evidence, also stated that he did not know

what had happened with the victim X.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.5. On careful scrutiny
of the evidence adduced by the PW.5, | do not find any incriminating material in

his evidence against the accused person regarding commission of any offence.

12. Because of what have been discussed and pointed out
here-in-above, it is appeared that the prosecution side has totally failed to prove
the charges under Section 366(A) IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act
brought against the accused person, Sri Babu Baruah and the accused person
deserves to be acquitted.

Contd...
6 Special Case No.79/2018.

13. 1, therefore, hold the accused person, Sri Babu Baruah
not guilty and acquit him from the charges under Section 366(A) IPC and under
Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

14. The accused person be released forthwith from the

judicial custody.

15. Given under my hand and the seal of this court on this
the 6" day of August, 2018.

( M. A. Choudhury )
Special | udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Dictated & corrected by me -

( M.A.Choudhury )
Special J udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by-
Sri Satyabrata Kshattry, Stenographer.

APPENDIX
1. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE :

PW.1 - Victim X.

PW.2 - Sri Doley Deori.

PW.3 - Smti Sontara Deori.

PW.4 - Sri Biseswar Deori.

PW.5 - Sri Bidya Deori.

2. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE :
Nil.

3, DOCUMENTS PRODUCED IN THE CASE :

NIL

( M. A. Choudhury )
Special | udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
