IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE (SPECIAL JUDGE),
CACHAR, SILCHAR.

SPL. (POCSO) Case No.15 of 2019.
Under Section 366 of IPC & Section 8 of POCSO Act

Present :- Smt. Angjeeta Mahanta, AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge (Special Judge),
Cachar, Silchar.

State of Assam wrrnnnene= Complainant.
- Versus -

Aktarul Hussain @ Aktar Hussain---------- Accused person.
Appearance :-
For the prosecution ' Smti. B. Acharjee, learned Special P.P.
For the defence - Sri A.A. Laskar, learned counsel.
Dates of evidence :- 29.02.2020.
Argument heard on i 29.02.2020.
Judgment delivered on - 29.02.2020.

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 03.03.2018, the informant lodged

an FIR with the O/C of Udharbond PS. stating inter alia that few days prior to
lodging of the FIR, accused Aktar Hussain used to tease his victim daughter on the
road and on 02.03.2018 at about 8 p.m. when the victim daughter of the informant
went to attend her nature's call, the FIR named accused persons kidnapped the
victim girl by gagging her mouth. On being search the informant could know that

the accused persons kidnapped the victim.

2. Accordingly, O/C Udharbond P.S. registered Udharbond P.S. Case No.
53/2018 and investigation commenced. During the course of investigation the I.O.

visited the place of occurrence, drew up a sketch map of the place of occurrence,
Page 2
Spl. (POCSO) Case No.15/2019

the victim was recovered and her statements were recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. The I.O.
also examined the witnesses and also recorded their statement and on completion
of investigation I/O submitted charge sheet against the present accused person U/s
366 IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. As the offence U/S 366 of IPC r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act being
exclusively triable by the Special Court, Id. CJM Cachar, Silchar sent the case record
to the Court of the learned Special Judge, Cachar, Silchar. In due course, upon
appearance of the accused and after hearing both sides learned Special Judge
framed formal charge U/S 366 of IPC and Section 8 of POCSO Act against the
accused person. The charges having been read over and explained the accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Subsequently, the case was transferred
to this Court for disposal.

4. Prosecution examined 2 (two) witnesses i.e. the victim and the
informant. Statements of the accused person were recorded u/s. 313 CrP.C. The
accused denied the accusation of forcibly taking away the victim. Defence declined

to adduce evidence.

5. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have also heard
argument of both the sides.

6. Points for Determination:-
(i) Whether the accused person on 02.03.2018 at about 8 p.m. at
Lathigram under Udharbond PS. had kidnapped the victim, the
daughter of the informant with intent that she may be compelled or
knowing it to be likely that she will be compelled to marry against her
will or in order that or knowing it to be likely that she will be forced or

seduced to illicit intercourse, as alleged?

(ii) Whether the accused person committed sexual assault upon the

victim, as alleged?
Page 3
Spl. (POCSO) Case No.15/2019

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4 Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the prosecution
has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused person as mentioned

in points for determination.

8. PW.1 is the victim. She deposed in her evidence that the informant is
her father and the occurrence took place in the year 2018. She further deposed that
at the time of occurrence her father out of suspicion lodged an FIR against the
accused with the Udharbond P.S. and at that time she was in her grandmother's
house and her father recovered her from the house of her grandmother at Saidpur
and the police produced her before the Court for recording her statement U/S 164
Cr.P.C. She has proved Ext.1 as her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. wherein Ext.1(1) and
1(2) are her signatures. She further stated that police sent her to SMCH, Silchar for
medical examination but she refused. She further stated that at the time of
occurrence her age was 18 years.

In her cross-examination by the defence, the PW-1 stated that out of
suspect of relationship with the accused her father used to scold her and so she
voluntarily went to her grandmother’s house. She further stated in her cross-
examination that she was not eloped by anybody and that after about 4/5 months
of the alleged incident she was given in marriage with the accused and now she is
residing with the accused as his wife and having a 6 months old daughter out of the

wedlock with the accused and she has no grievance against the accused.

9. PW-2 is the informant and father of the alleged victim of this case. He
has deposed in his evidence that he lodged this case against the accused Aktar
Hussain. He further deposed that in the last year during the Bengali month of
‘Chaitra’ the occurrence took place at night at about 8 p.m. and at that time the
accused took away his victim daughter from his house. He further deposed that at
that time his victim daughter went out of the house to attend her nature's call and

then the accused from outside took her away forcibly by gagging her mouth.
Page 4
Spl. (POCSO) Case No.15/2019

Thereafter, he did not find the victim anywhere in his house and lodged the FIR with
the Udharbond P.S. against the accused. He further deposed that the father of the
accused produced his victim daughter to Udharbond P.S. after one day of the
occurrence and police sent the victim to SMCH, Silchar for her medical examination
but the victim refused to be medically examined. He further deposed that police got
her statement recorded by the Magistrate U/S 164 Cr.P.C. He further deposed that at
the time of occurrence the victim girl was a student of Class-VITI and her age was
about 17 years 3 months.

In his cross-examination by the defence, the PW-2 admitted that he
had not seen when and how his daughter got missing and that he demanded some
land on Kabinnama from the accused side and as the accused side could not fulfill
his said demand he filed this case. He denied the defence suggestion that his

daughter was not a student of Class-VIII and that she was major at that time.

10. From the above evidence it is apparent that the alleged victim was
about 18 years at the time of occurrence as is evident from her examination-in-chief
as well as from Ext.1 statement. Though the PW-2 has stated that the victim girl
was aged about 17 years 3 months at the time of occurrence but the same has not
been proved by way of any documentary or medical evidence. Moreover, the PW-2
has admitted in his cross-examination that he has filed this case as the accused side
could not fulfill his demand of land. In view of the categorical statement of the
alleged victim herself that she was not eloped by anybody, there is no scope to infer
that the accused used any sort of force in order to take the alleged victim. Further,
there is no indication whatsoever in the evidence on record regarding any sort of
deceitful inducement having been used by the accused in order to make the alleged
victim to go with him. Though the father of the victim i.e. PW-2 deposed in his
evidence that the accused took away the victim forcibly by gagging her mouth, the
Same cannot be believed as the victim i.e. PW-1 admitted in her cross-examination

that she was not eloped by anybody.

11. From the above discussion, there is no indication that the alleged victim

was kidnapped by the accused person and that she was sexually assaulted by the
Page 5
Spl. (POCSO) Case No.15/2019

accused. On consideration of the evidence on record, I am unable to hold that there
is sufficient evidence before the Court to return a finding of guilt against the

accused person and the points are therefore answered accordingly.

12. In view of the aforesaid evidence discussed, I hold that the charge
against the accused person is not established. The prosecution has failed to prove
its case beyond reasonable doubt. Consequently, the accused is acquitted of the
offences u/s.366 I.P.C. read with Section 8 of the POCSO Act. He be set at liberty
forthwith.

13. The Bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of six months

from today in view of Section 437A Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 29% day of
February, 2020.

Additional Sessions Judge (Special Judge),
Cachar, Silchar.
Dictated & corrected by me.

Additional Sessions Judge (Special Judge),
Cachar, Silchar.

Dictation taken & transcribed by Sujit Kr. Das.
Page 6
Spl. (POCSO) Case No.15/2019

IN THE COURT OF ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE (SPECIAL JUDGE), CACHAR,

SILCHAR
Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 15 of 2019.

APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW-1 — The victim girl.
PW-2 — The informant.
(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -
Ext. 1 — Statement of the victim girl recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

(D) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(E) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL

(F) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Additional Sessions Judge (Special Judge),
Cachar, Silchar.
