Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: CACHAR.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20 of 2015
(U/S 8 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......cccccccsseecccecssssaessseeeessstseeees Complainant.
-Versus-
SSUIPEICIA CORE, ssssserseerrrsserxmnaromonmmanmosnsancamemmns: Accused person.
Charge framed On tm........cecceecceeceesstseeeeeeessseeeeessteeeaeaaees 23.11.19
P.Ws. examined on:-.15.2.17,6.11.17,9.4.18,16.11.18,29.05.19
Argument heard On tm ....cccceesssecceesesssssseeeeeeeesseeeeeaaa 20.11.19.
Judgment pronounced and delivered ONn:-.........:ccceeees 10.12.19.
Counsel Appeared:
For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : Sri. N. Roy,
Smti T.Das, Ld.advocates.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an

FIR with the In-charge Tarapur T.O.P. stating the facts that on 08.10.15 at
about 10 a.m. while the informant and his wife went out of the house for
their place of work keeping their minor daughter(victim) in their house, the
accused finding the victim alone in the house, with an ill intention disrobed
the victim daughter of the informant and also applied force on her and
thereafter seeing the occurrence the neigbouring people came and rescued

the victim from the clutch of the accused and then the accused went to
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015

his house.

2. On receipt of the FIR, a regular PS case was registered vide
Silchar B.S. Case No.2747/15 U/S 354 A of IPC R/W Sec.8/12 of POCSO
Act.2012. Police started investigation and during the course of investigation
the statement of the victim girl was recorded U/S 164 CrP.C. The victim girl
was also sent to SMCH, Silchar for medical examination. The investigating
officer also visited the place of occurrence , prepared the sketch map and
also recorded statement of the witnesses and subsequently after
completion of investigation submitted charge sheet against present
accused person U/S 354 A IPC R/W Sec.8/12 of POCSO Act.

3. The offence u/s Sec.8/12 of POCSO Act being exclusively
triable by the Court of Special Judge , the case record was sent to this
court along with connected papers and the same is taken up for trial by
this court. In due course, upon appearance of the accused and after
hearing both sides formal charge U/S 8 of POCSO Act was framed by my Id.
Predecessor in office against the accused person. The charges having
been read over and explained the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed
to be tried.

4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(i) Whether the accused person on 8.10.2015 at about 10 a.m.
committed sexual assault upon the victim, as alleged ?
5. During trial, prosecution side examined as many as eight
witnesses including M.O. and I.0. Statement of the accused person was
recorded u/s 313 of CrP.C. where the accused person denied the

allegations against him. Defence declined to adduce evidence.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015

6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have also
heard argument advanced by the learned counsel for both the parties.

The Ld. counsel for the accused argued that the prosecution side
has not able to prove the place of occurrence, rather in the charge sheet the
house of accused is shown as place of occurrence. PW.2 has stated that the
victim was playing in the courtyard, whereas, PW.1 has stated that accused
took the victim to the house of the accused. It is further argued that the
independent witnesses PW.5 and PW.6 have not supported the prosecution
story and both of them had not seen any occurrence. It is also argued that
although the alleged occurrence is shown to have been taken place on
8.10.15 but in the FIR the date below to the informant’s signature is written
as 7.10.15. In view of the above position, Ld. defence counsel has stated
that there are enormous doubt in respect of the prosecution case and the
prosecution has failed to prove the charge beyond all reasonable doubt
against the accused and hence prayed for acquittal of the accused.

On the other hand, Ld. Special P.P. has argued that the
prosecution has able to prove the charge beyond all reasonable doubt and
the incriminating evidence , more particularly, the evidence adduced by the
victim remains unrebutted and there is no reason to disbelieve the evidence
of the minor victim PW.3. In view of the above position, the Id. Special
Public Prosecutor has argued that the accused is liable to be convicted and

punished accordingly.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF

7. Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the

prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015

person as mentioned in point for determination.

8. PW.1 Bimal Das, the informant of this case, deposed in his
deposition that since about last three years he had been residing in the
house of Ajoy and Bijoy Poddar as tenant and accused is also a co tenant.
He further deposed that about one and half years back just prior to
Durgapuja one day he was on duty and at about 10/10-30 p.m. Ajoy
Poddar informed him over telephone that accused confined his (informant’s)
youngest daughter in his ( accused’s) house and then PW.1 returned home
at 11-30 a.m. and then his victim daughter reported him that the accused
taking her inside his room gagged her mouth and pulled her clothes.
Thereafter PW.1 lodged the FIR vide Ext.1. PW.1 further deposed in his
deposition that at that time victim was reading in class-1 and also deposed

that at that time his wife was also outside the house.

In his cross examination PW.1 stated that when his children do
not go to school they are remain alone in the house for hours together. He
also stated in his cross examination that accused is an aged person and
having sons and daughter and grand children. PW.1 denied the suggestion
of the defence that he did not state the IO that he received telephonic call

from Ajoy Poddar and he returned home at about 11-30 a.m.

9. PW.2 Smti. Rina Das, the mother of the victim deposed in her
evidence that they are having two daughters of ages 11 years and 6 years
respectively and accused is their co-tenant. She further deposed that on the
date of occurrence at about 11-30 a.m. her sister met her and informed that
the accused confined the victim in his room and then PW.2 returned home
and on her query the victim told her that while she was playing with other
girl the accused in the name of giving chocolate took her inside his room and

closed the door. PW.2 further deposed in her deposition that victim reported
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015

her while the accused was trying to remove the clothes of victim she started
crying. PW.2 further deposed that on her arrival she found that her

husband had already arrived there.

In her cross examination PW.2 denied the suggestion of the
defence that she did not state to IO that the victim reported the alleged
incident to her. PW.2 further stated that accused is like her father and he is

having sons and grandsons etc.

10 PW.3 is the victim and after her intelligence test her statement
was recorded in camera. She stated that the accused is her co-tenant and
she calls the accused as ‘Dadu’ who is an old person. She further stated that
while she was reading in class-1 , one day she did not go to her school due
to headache and on that day when her parents were outside and her elder
sister was in school, in their absence in the day time, she was playing with a
girl named Chumki in the courtyard and the accused called her to give a
chocolate and when PW.3 entered into his room the accused took her to
kitchen and closed the door of the house. She further stated that accused
removed her under garment and then she started crying and the accused
gave her a slap on her crying , and that one Ashadidi managed to open the
door as it was not vaulted and then she came out. She further stated that
she disclosed everything to her ( Ashadidi) and after that at about 1 p.m.
her parents returned home and she reported the matter to them. She
further stated that she was medically examined and she also gave
statement before Magistrate and at that time she was not in a position to

put her signature.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015

In her cross examination PW.3 stated that accused used to give
her chocolate and she used to visit his house and on the date of occurrence
she also went there to take chocolate and the door was simply closed. She
stated in her cross examination that accused did not commit bad things with
her. She also stated that her father returned home in the evening. She
denied the suggestion of the defence that she being tutored by her parents

implicated the accused.

11. PW.4, Dr. Orina Raha deposed in her evidence that she
examined the victim on police requisition and the victim during examination
gave history that on 8/10/15 at around 10 a.m when no one was present,
she was with neighbor, aged gentleman named Surendra Das who locked
the door and opened up her pants but did nothing and then hearing sound
other people gathered, opened the door and freed her. Mother of the victim
also gave same history to PW.4 PW.4 on the basis of physical including
dental examination, laboratory and radiological investigation done on the
victim opined that the age of the victim age was above 7 years and below 9
years, no evidence of recent sexual intercourse detected and no evidence of
injury on body or genital detected. In her cross examination she stated that

by the word body, she means to say the entire body.

12. PW.5 Samar Das deposed in his deposition that about 3/3 &
1/2 years ago while he was a tenant in the house of one Anil Podder of
Sashti gally he heard that accused has done some bad acts with the victim
and he also heard that the matter was ended at the intervention of
neighbouring people. He also deposed that Bimal Das also told him that

accused had done bad acts with the victim.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015

PW.5 admitted in his cross examination that he did not state to
the IO that while he was a tenant in the house one Anil Podder of Sashti
gally he heard that accused has done some bad acts with the victim and
PW.5 did not see the incident.

13. PW.6 Sankar Poddar is also a hear-say witness who has
deposed that he came to know from the neighbouring people that accused
person has done some bad acts with the daughter of Bimal Das. In his cross
examination PW.6 stated that police did not record his statement and_ that

he does not believe that the accused can do such type of bad act.

14. PW.7 S.I. Nirupuam Nath, who is IO of the case deposed
narrating various stages of investigation conducted by him such as
recording of statement of witnesses, collecting of medical report of the

victim etc.

In his cross examination PW.7 stated that he did not draw the
sketch map of the PO and did not make Chumki and Asha as witnesses in
the charge sheet and also Priyobala, Shyamal Poddar and Anil Poddar were
not cited as witnesses in the charge sheet. PW.7 also did not seize any

materials.

PW.7 further stated in his cross examination that PW.2 did not
state before him that the victim had reported her in respect of the
occurrence, and that PW.1 has not stated before him that he received

telephonic call from one Ajoy Poddar.

16. PW.8 SI, P.L. Buongpui is another IO and he also stated

different stages of investigation conducted by him ,such as, recording of
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015

statement of the witnesses, sending of the victim to court for recording her

statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C., preparing of sketch map etc.

PW.8 stated in his cross examination that the date of occurrence
as per the FIR was 8/10/15 and the informant Bimol Das put his signature
in the FIR and the date was mentioned as 7.10.15. In his cross examination

he also stated that he had not seized anything in connection with this case.

17. Appreciating the evidence on record, as discussed above, it
appears that PW.1 Bimal Das, the father of the victim has stated in his
evidence that at the time of occurrence his daughter victim was reading in
class-1. PW.3, the victim has stated in her evidence that she was reading
in class-1 at the time of occurrence. Dr. Orina Raha, PW.4 has stated in
her evidence that on the basis of physical including dental examination,
laboratory and radiological investigation done on the victim she was in the
opinion that the age of the victim was above 7 years and below 9 years.
The defence has failed to rebut the above evidence of PW.1,PW.3 and PW.4
in respect of age of the victim at the time of occurrence. Therefore, I am
of the opinion that the prosecution has able to prove that the victim was

aged in between 7 to 9 years at the time of occurrence.

18. PW.7 and PW.8 are the Investigating Officers who have
narrated various stages of investigation conducted by them. Although
PW.5 and PW.6 had not seen the occurrence and their evidence found to
be hear-say but PW.1,PW.2 and PW.3 have narrated the prosecution story
corroborating each other. Although in the instant case PW.1 and PW.2 are
reported witness but the evidence of PW.3, i.e. the victim is specific and
against the accused in respect of alleged charge. It is quite natural that a

minor victim will certainly divulge such incident to her parents and in the
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015

instant case PW.1 and PW.2 are her parents to whom the victim reported

the incident.

19, PW.3 is the victim and in her evidence she has specifically
stated that on the date of occurrence she did not go to the school due to
headache and her parents were on their duty outside their house and she
was alone in the house and she also stated that her elder sister was in the
school and she was playing with a girl namely Chumki in the courtyard and
the accused called her to give a chocolate and when she entered into his
room he took her to his kitchen and closed the door of the house. She
further stated that accused removed her under garment and she started
crying and then the accused gave her a slap and on her crying one
Ashadidi opened the door as the door was not vaulted and then she came
out and disclosed everything to Ashadidi and thereafter to her parents.
During cross examination although the victim has stated that
the accused did not commit bad things with her but the defence had not
put any question in respect of taking the victim by the accused to the
kitchen and removing of her under-garment by the accused. Even the
accused side has not put any suggestion denying that accused committed
such acts. In view of the above position, this incriminating evidence
remains unrebutted and I do not find any justification to disbelieve the
evidence of the minor victim. Although the victim has stated that the door
was not vaulted but she has stated that accused closed the door and it was

confirmed in her cross examination that the door was simply closed.

20. Let me now go through provisions for the offence of sexual
assault. Punishment for sexual assault is provided in section 8 of the

POCSO Act ,whereas, sexual assault is defined in Section 7 of the Act as
° SpI.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015
follows :-

“Sexual assault — Whoever with sexual intent touches the vagina,

penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the

vagina, penis,anus or breast of such person or any other person or
does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact
without penetration Is said to commit sexual assault.”

Punishment for sexual harassment is provided in section 12 of the
POCSO Act ,whereas, sexual assault is defined in Section 11 of the Act as
follows :-

"Sexual harassment- A _ person is said to commit sexual

harassment upon a child when such person with sexual intent —

(1) utters any word or makes any sound, or makes any gesture or

exhibits any object or part of body with the intention that such word

or sound shall be heard, or such gesture or object or part of body

Shall be seen by the child ; or

(i) makes a child exhibit his body or any part of his body so as it Is

seen by such person or any other person ; or

(ili) shows any object to a child in any form or media for

pornographic purposes ; or

(iv) repeatedly or constantly follows or watches or contacts a child

either directly or through electronic, digital or any other means ;or

(V) threatens to use, in any form of media, a real or fabricated

depiction through electronic, flim or digital or any other mode, or

any part of the body of the child or the involvement of the child in
sexual act ; or

(Vi) entices a child for pornographic purposes or gives signification

therefor.

Explanation ; - Any question which involves " sexual intent” shall be
" SpI.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015

a question of fact.”

21. Although the charge was framed under section 8 of the
POCSO Act but upon consideration of the facts proved by the
prosecution I have come to the conclusion that the acts of the
accused upon the victim constitutes sexual harassment as defined
in section 11 of the POCSO Act which is punishable under section 12
of the POCSO Act.

22. In view of the above discussions of the evidence on record it
has been established beyond all reasonable doubt by the
prosecution side that at the relevant time the accused has sexually
harassed the victim girl and accordingly the accused is found guilty
U/S 12 of POCSO Act. Accused Surendra Das is, therefore, convicted
U/S 12 of POCSO Act.

23. | Upon consideration of the nature and gravity of the offence
and its impact upon the society, I declined to provide the accused

person with the benefit of probation of offender’s Act.

24. The accused is heard on the point of sentence. He submitted
that he is aged about 80 years and at the fag end of his life. It is
further submitted that he is an ailing person and cannot move
properly and there is none to look after his wife who is also an aged
person and he is also having an unmarried daughter in his house

and therefore he has prayed to exonerate him.

25. | Upon consideration of the nature and gravity of the offence

and the mitigating circumstances which the convict has submitted
-12-
SpI.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015
during his sentence hearing, I have found that he is an aged ailing

person and as such he deserves some leniency.

26. Upon consideration of all aspects, the convict Surendra Das is
sentenced to undergo S.I. for a period of 6 ( six ) months and to
pay a fine of Rs.5,000/- ( five thousand ) and in default of payment
of fine S.I. for another 1 ( one ) month for the offence under section
12 of POCSO Act.

The period already undergone during investigation and trial
be set off from the period of sentence.

Bail bond stands cancelled. The bailor is discharged from his
liabilities.

Furnish a copy of judgment to the accused free of cost.
Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on
this the 10° day of December, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee,
Stenographer Gr. I
-13-
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/2015

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 20 of 2015.

APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW-1 — Sri Bimal Das.
PW-2 — Smti. Rina Das.
PW-3 — Victim girl.
PW-4 — Dr. Orina Raha,MO.
PW-5 - Sri Samar Das.
PW-6 - Sri Sankar Poddar
PW-7 - SI Sri Nirupam Nath, I.O.
PW-8 - SI P.L. Buongpio, 1.0.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — FIR.

Ext. 2 — Medical report.
Ext. 3 - Charge sheet.
Ext. 4 - Sketch map.

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - _—NIL.
(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
