Page 1 of 16

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Special 22/2018 corresponding to GR Case
No.695/2015 & Bokajan Police Station Case No.
133/2015 Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Jayanta Mech @
Jayanta Boro

Name of informant/complainant:
Smti. Mungli Orang
S/o Shri Mohesh Orang
Village: Morkordoiguri
P.S Bokajan
District: Karbi Anglong.
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Jayanta Mech alias Jayanta Boro,
S/o Shri Ram Boro
Village: Morkordoiguri
P.S : Bokajan
District: Karbi Anglong.

Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution: Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Mr U. Paul/M.K Singha/Roma Engtipi
Argument heard on : 17.8.2018/30-08-18
Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 05-09-2018

UDGMENT
l.

Page 2 of 16

It is a case of sexual assault alleged to have
been committed by the accused, Shri Jayanta Mech
alias Jayanta Boro towards the victim child having
age of 13 years.

The prosecution case in brief is that on
24.7.2015 the informant, Smti. Mungli Orang lodged
an ejahar with Bokajan Police Station stating inter
alia that on 23.7.2015 at about 7 PM, her daughter-
Smti. Sonali Orang aged about 13 years while
coming from a shop of their village, the above-
named accused pulled her by catching her hand
and touched her breasts. As she made hue and cry,
the accused left the place. Thereafter, coming back
to their house, she narrated the occurrence before
her mother. On receipt of the written ejahar, O/C,
Bokajan Police Station registered a criminal case
vide Bokajan Police Station case No.133/2015 U/S
341/354A of the IPC R/W Sec.8 the POCSO Act. On
completion of the investigation, charge-sheet was
submitted U/S 341/354A of the IPC R/W Sec.8 of the
POCSO Act against the accused person. Hence the

prosecution has come up.

On completion of appearance of the accused
person before the Court of the then learned
Magistrate, copy was furnished to him. Thereafter,
the case was committed to the then Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Afterwards, this case came to
Court of the undersigned. After renumbering the
case as Spl. 22/2018, and having very carefully
gone through submissions of learned lawyers of
both sides as well as case diary, this Court found
Page 3 of 16

sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused
person had committed the offence U/S 8 of the
POCSO Act and accordingly, the charge was framed.
The particular of the charged offence was duly read
over and explained to the accused to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

During trial Prosecution has examined as many
as five witnesses including the informant and
alleged victim. Accused person has been examined
U/S 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence examined none. Plea of
defence is of total denial.

Point for determination
Whether the accused person, Shri Jayanta Mech
alias Jayanta Boro on 23.7.2015 at about 7 PM at
Morakordoiguri Adibashi Gaon under Bokajan PS
committed sexual assault upon the victim, Smti.
Sonali Orang aged about 13 years by pressing her
breasts?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through the
submissions of learned lawyers of both sides as well
as evidence on record. In the very beginning,
learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the accused
has submitted that the prosecution has totally failed
to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubts. On
the other hand, refuting the aforesaid submission,
learned Public Prosecutor, Mr D.K. Deka _ has
submitted that prosecution has duly succeeded in
establishing its case. Prior to forming an opinion on
the rival submissions made by the parties, | would
like to give a glance at evidence on record.
Page 4 of 16

PW-1 is the informant-cum-mother of the victim
child who has stated in her evidence that the
occurrence took place in the year of 2015. On the
day of occurrence at 7 PM her victim female child
went to a shop situated near by their house and it
was a rainy day. At that time, she was in the house
and the victim child was 12 years old. Coming back
from the shop, her victim daughter told her that
while she reached near culvert at the time of
coming home back, the accused caught hold of her
hands and pressed her breasts. Thereafter, she
lodged a written ejahar with Bokajan Police Station.
Police got the victim child medically examined and
her statement recorded in the Court.

PW-2 is the victim child who has stated in her
testimony that the occurrence took place in the
year 2015. On the day of the occurrence at about 7
PM she went to a shop nearby their house for
purchasing Dal, K. Oil etc. and it was a rainy day.
While she was coming home back, near the culvert
accused caught hold of her hand and pressed her
breasts. Thereafter, she somehow made herself
freed from the hands of the accused and reached
the house crying. Coming to the house, she told the
incident to her mother. At the time of occurrence
there was another boy with the accused whom she
could not identify. Police got her statement recorded
in the Court. Ext.1 is her statement and Ext.1(1) is
her signature. At the time of occurrence, she was 12
years old and was reading in class-Vl.
g.

10.

Page 5 of 16

PW-3 is Shri Kishore Orang who is the brother of
the informant. He has stated in his testimony that
the occurrence took place in the year 2015. In the
morning of the following day of the occurrence, he
went to the house of the informant on call given by
her and on reaching there, the informant informed
him that on the previous day at about 7 PM while
the victim child went to the shop situated nearby,
the accused person restrained her and pressed her
breasts. While the victim child raised shouting the
accused fled away. Thereafter, the victim came
home back crying and told her informant mother
about the occurrence. Thereafter, he accompanied
his informant’s sister for going to Thana at her
instance. In the police station, the informant lodged
a written ejahar. At the time of occurrence, the
victim child was 13 years old. Later on, he came to
know that the accused was arrested.

PW-4 is Shri Mudheswar Karmakar who has
stated in his testimony that the occurrence took
place in the year 2016. In the morning of the
following day of the occurrence, the informant
called him for coming to his residence. On reaching
there, informant informed him that in the evening of
the previous night while her victim daughter was
coming home back with some articles from the
shop, on the way, the accused person restrained
her and pressed her breasts and thereafter, the
accused fled away while she raised shouting. On
being asked, the victim child informed him that in
the evening of previous day at about 7 O’ Clock
while she was coming home back from the shop
with some articles, the accused restrained her on
Page 6 of 16

the way and pressed her breasts in rain. The
informant in respect of the occurrence lodged a
written ejahar with police station.

11. PW-5 is the investigating officer who has stated
in his testimony that on 24.7.2015 he was working
in Bokajan police station as an Attached Officer. On
that day, one Mongoli Orang lodged a written ejahar
before the O/C stating that on 23.7.2015 at about 7
PM while her 13 years old victim daughter was
coming home back from the shop with household
items on the way the accused person restrained her
and pressed her breasts. She also stated in the FIR
that while her daughter raised shouting accused
fled away and that coming back home in crying, the
victim child informed her about the occurrence. On
receipt of the written ejahar, O/C registered a
criminal case vide Bokajan PS Case No.133/2015
U/S 341/354A R/W Section 8 of the POCSO Act and
asked him to investigate the case. Ext.2 is the
ejahar and Ext.2(1) is signature of O/C Loknath
Gogoi, he knows. Thereafter on that day, he came
to the place of occurrence and recorded statement
of the informant, victim child and other witnesses.
He prepared sketch map of the place of occurrence.
Ext.3 is the said sketch map of the place of
occurrence and Ext.3 (1) is his signature. On
25.7.2015 he managed to apprehend the accused
person and on 26.7.2015 he was forwarded to the
Court for judicial custody. On 27.7.2015 he sent the
victim child to Diphu Court for recording her
statement and Court recorded her statement. On
completion of the investigation, he submitted
Page 7 of 16

charge-sheet U/S 341/354A of IPC/8 of the POCSO
Act against the accused person. Ext.4 is the charge-
sheet and Ext.4(1) is his signature.

Analysis of Evidence

12. Evidence of investigating officer marked as PW-
5 is silent that he got the victim child medically
examined for ascertaining her age and that he
seized any document showing date of birth of the
victim child. Section 2(1)(d) of the POCSO Act
relates to victim child. According to aforesaid
section for becoming victim child, a child must be
below 18 years. The defence has not disputed at
the time of occurrence the victim child was below
18 years. PW-1 is mother of the victim child who is
the best person to say about age of the victim at
the time of occurrence. She has stated in her
evidence that at the time of occurrence, the victim
was 12 years old. PW-3 is the brother of the
informant and as such, he can be said to be nearest
relative of the victim. PW-4 is the neighbour.
According to victim child and PW3, at the time of
occurrence, the victim was 13 years old. PW-1 in
her cross-examination has stated that at the time of
occurrence, the victim was reading in Class-Vl.
Normally, age of a child reading in Class-VI would be
12/13 years. Taking all aspects into consideration, |
find no way to disbelieve the evidence on record
that at the time of occurrence, the victim child was
12/13 years old.

13. The entire prosecution case so far as alleged

occurrence in question is concerned, lies on the
Page 8 of 16

evidence of victim child. Immediate after the
occurrence, the concerned IO examined the victim
child and after 4(four) days of the occurrence, the
concerned I|.O. got the statement of the victim child
recorded in the Court. Ext.1 is the statement of the
victim girl recorded in the Court U/S 164 of Cr.PC.
The victim child has categorically stated in her
deposition as well as in her statement recorded U/s
164 of Cr.P.C. that while she was coming home back
from the shop with some household items on the
way the accused restrained her and pressed her
breasts. Even though, she informed her mother and
PW-4 that the accused restrained her on the way
and pressed her breasts.

14. PW-1, PW-3 and PW-4 are hearsay witnesses.
Ext.3 is the sketch map of the place of occurrence
which shows that the occurrence took place on the
road in between the house of the informant and the
shop of Laksheswar Bhumij. It has been argued by
learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused
person that non-examination of said Laksheswar
Bhumij is fatal to the prosecution. It is evident that
at the time of occurrence, it was raining. Case
record shows that PW-Laksheswar Bhumij had died
on 09.12.2016 before trial of this case started. It is
also evident that mother of the victim child did not
come out of the house on hearing shouting raised
by the victim child at the time of occurrence though
she was available in the house. Probably because of
raining, the informant could not hear the shouting
raised by the victim child. For the reasons stated
above, | find no substance in the aforesaid

submissions.
Page 9 of 16

15; Under section 29 of the POCSO Act, 2012 the
court can draw presumption that the accused
person was involved in the occurrence in question if
the defence fails to prove contrary to the fact where
upon the prosecution relies. The said section reads
thus:-“29. Presumption as to certain offences.-
Where a person is prosecuted for committing or
abetting or attenuating to commit any offence
under sections 3,5,7 and section 9 of this Act, the
Special Court shall presume, that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is
proved.” In the instant case the defence has only
taken plea of denial of “sexual assault” towards the
victim child. In the instant case the defence the
defence has failed to bring the contrary to the

prosecution version.

16. Under section 29 of the POCSO Act, 2012 the
court can draw presumption that the accused
person was involved in the occurrence in question if
the defence fails to prove contrary to the fact where
upon the prosecution relies. The said section reads
thus:-“29. Presumption as to certain offences.-
Where a person is prosecuted for committing or
abetting or attenuating to commit any offence
under sections 3,5,7 and section 9 of this Act, the
Special Court shall presume, that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is
proved.” In the instant case the defence has only
taken plea of denial of “sexual assault” towards the
victim child. In the instant case the defence the
Page 10 of 16

defence has failed to bring the contrary to the

prosecution version.

17. The Hon'ble Apex Court has discussed about the
consent of the victim child in the case of
Independent Thought v. Union of India
reported “ (2017) 10 SCC 800” and observed
thus:-“53. It is obvious from a brief survey of the
various statutes referred to above that a child is a
person below 18 years of age who is entitled to the
protection of her human rights including the right to
live with dignity; if she is unfortunately married
while a child, she is protected from domestic
violence, both physical and mental, as well as from
physical and sexual abuse; if she is unfortunately
married while a child, her marriage is in violation of
the law and therefore an offence and such a
marriage is voidable at her instance and the person
marrying her is committing a punishable offence;
the husband of the girl child would be committing
aggravated penetrative sexual assault when he has
sexual intercourse with her and is_ thereby
committing a punishable offence under
the Pocso Act. The only jarring note in this scheme
of the pro-child legislations is to be found in
Exception 2 to Section 375 IPC which provides that
sexual intercourse with a girl child between 15 and
18 years of age is not rape if the sexual intercourse
is between the girl child and her husband.
Therefore, the question of punishing the husband
simply does not arise. A girl child placed in such
circumstances is a child in need of care and
protection and needs to be cared for, protected and
appropriately rehabilitated or restored to society. All
Page 11 of 16

these “child-friendly statutes” are essential for the
well-being of the girl child (whether married or not)
and are protected by Article 15(3) of the
Constitution. These child-friendly statutes also link
child marriages and sexual intercourse with a girl
child and draw attention to the adverse
consequences of both.”

18. Section 7 of the POCSO relates to definition of
“sexual assault” which reads thus:- “Whoever, with
sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or
breast of the child or makes the child touch the
vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any
other person, or does any other act with sexual
intent which involves physical contact without

penetration is said to commit sexual assault.”

19. The section 8 of the POCSO Act relates to
punishment for “sexual assault” incorporated in the
section 7 of the POCSO Act which reads thus:-“8.
Punishment for sexual assault’ .-Whoever,
commits sexual assault, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which
Shall not be less than three years but which may
extend to five years, and shall also be liable to
fine.”

20. Regarding credibility of the child witness it has
been observed by Hon'ble Apex Court in the case
law of Raj Kumar V State of MP reported in “
(2014) 5 SCC 353” thus:-“ Evidence of child
witness must be evaluated more carefully and with

greater circumspection because aé_ child is
Page 12 of 16

susceptible to be swayed by what others tell him.”
Similarly the Hon'ble Apex Court has also observed
in case of Alagupandi V State of TN reported in
“ (2012) 10 SCC 451” thus:-“ While assessing
evidence of child witness, court must carefully
observe his/her demeanour to eliminate likelihood
of tutoring. Conviction can be allowed to stand
without any corroboration but as a rule of prudence
it is always desirable to seek corroboration of such
evidence from other reliable evidence on record.
In such a case court can convict the accused on the
sole evidence of the victim child if it inspires the
confidence of the court.

21. In this regard | would like to refer to the case of
Narender Kumar v. State (NCT of Delhi)
reported in “ (2012) 7 SCC 171” and its relevant
paragraph is re-produced below:-

“20. It is a settled legal proposition that once the
statement of the prosecutrix inspires confidence
and is accepted by the court as such, conviction can
be based only on the solitary evidence of the
prosecutrix and no corroboration would be required
unless there are compelling reasons’ which
necessitate the court for corroboration of her
statement. Corroboration of testimony of the
prosecutrix as a condition for judicial reliance is not
a requirement of law but a guidance of prudence
under the given facts and circumstances. Minor
contradictions or insignificant discrepancies should
not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise
reliable prosecution case.”
Page 13 of 16

22. In view of the discussions made | find no way to
discard the evidence of the victim child that at the
time of occurrence the accused pressed her breasts
while she was coming home back from the shop
with household items. Accordingly | find that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case
under section 8 of the POCSO Act comfortably.

ORDER

23. In the result, | find the accused person guilty
under section 8 of the POCSO Act and accordingly
he is convicted.

24. On the point of sentence, the accused person is
heard and to that effect his statement is recorded. It
has been submitted by the learned defence counsel
that the accused is a poor man having three
children without any landed property and as such if
the accused person is kept behind the bar his entire
family members will have to spend. He has further
submitted that it is a fit case where the accused
person deserves to be punished leniently. On the
other hand opposing the aforesaid submission
learned Public Prosecutor has submitted that the
very purpose for enactment of POCSO Act will be
frustrated if accused person is sentenced with
leniently.

25. Regarding object of the POCSO Act, the Hon'ble
Apex has observed in case of Eera v. State (NCT
of Delhi) reported in “(2017) 15 SCC 133” thus
:-“20. The purpose of referring to the Statement of
Objects and Reasons and the Preamble of
the Pocso Act is to appreciate that the very purpose
Page 14 of 16

of bringing a legislation of the present nature is to
protect the children from the sexual assault,
harassment and exploitation, and to secure the best
interest of the child. On an avid and diligent
discernment of the Preamble, it is manifest that it
recognises the necessity of the right to privacy and
confidentiality of a child to be protected and
respected by every person by all means and
through all stages of a judicial process involving the
child. Best interest and well-being are regarded as
being of paramount importance at every stage to
ensure the healthy physical, emotional, intellectual
and social development of the child. There is also a
stipulation that sexual exploitation and sexual
abuse are heinous offences and need to be
effectively addressed. The Statement of Objects
and Reasons provides regard being had to the
constitutional mandate, to direct its policy towards
securing that the tender age of children is not
abused and their childhood is protected against
exploitation and they are given facilities to develop
in a healthy manner and in conditions of freedom
and dignity. There is also a mention which is quite
significant that interest of the child, both as a victim
as well as a witness, needs to be protected. The
stress is on providing child-friendly procedure.
Dignity of the child has been laid immense
emphasis in the scheme of legislation. Protection
and interest occupy the seminal place in the text of
the Pocso Act.”

26. Taking the discussions made above _ into
consideration | do hereby order the accused person
to suffer RI of 3 years and fine of Rs. 2000/- i/d SI of
2 months. Let the fine money be paid to the victim
Page 15 of 16

child through his informant mother if realized. Set
off the earlier detention period. Let a certified copy
of the Judgment and order be supplied to the
accused person at free of cost. Let a copy of the
Judgment be sent to the District Magistrate, Karbi
Anglong, Diphu in terms of section 365 of the CrPC.

27. Certainly the sexual assault by the accused
person towards the victim caused mental suffering.
It also caused mental and financial suffering to the
informant who is the mother of the poor victim
child. Taking financial condition of the informant as
reflected | am of the opinion that for rehabilitation
of the victim child the informant needs financial
assistance. Hence | do hereby recommend an award
of compensation to be paid to the victim child
through the informant under’ the _ Victim
Compensation Scheme laid down under section 357
A of the CrPC. The Secretary of the District Legal
Services Authority, Diphu, Karbi Anglong, shall take
necessary steps. Inform him accordingly. Let the
Judgment be uploaded in the official website.

28. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

29. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this
5th September, 2018 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS )
Judge, Special Court Judge, Special Court
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi Anglong,

Assam
Page 16 of 16

Appendix

Prosecution Exhibited

Ext-1 is victim’s statement
Ext-2 is ejahar.

Ext-3 is Sketch Map of the PO
Ext-4 is the Charge Sheet.
Defence Exhibited: Nil
Prosecution Witnesses
PW-1 Mongli Urang

PW-2 is Victim Child

PW-3 is Tisul Urang

PW-4 is Moteshwar Karmakar
PW-5 is Lalmohan Gowala
Defence Witnesses: Nil

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Judge, Special Court
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam
