ns
fox

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,

 

Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 30( DH) 2017.

U/S 376 IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act.
(G.R. Case No.890/2017 (DM)), Dhemaji P.S. Case No.107/2018 Under

Section 366(A) IPC.

The State of Assam

- Versus —
Shri Biplab Gogoi @ Akonmani
S/O Deben Gogoi,
R/O Moridhal Borphukan Gaon,
P.S. Dhemaji,
Dist.- Dhemaji.

Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor

Shri H. Chetia, Advocate

Date of prosecution evidence

Date of defence evidence

cise Shs .Accused Person

(eta For the State

aioe For the Accused

: 31-7-2018
: Nil.
Date of argument : 31-07-2018

Date of Judgment : 14-08-2018.

JUDGMENT

 

:. The prosecution case in brief is that on 20-9-2017 complainant-
Shri Diganta Changmai lodged an ejahar with Dhemaji Police Station alleging
interalia that on19-9-2017 while his minor daughter Miss ‘x’ aged about 16
years, was returning home from her College, the accused-Biplab Gogoi took
away his daughter.

2 On receipt of the ejahar police registered a case vide Dhemaji
P.S. Case No.358/2017 u/s 366(A) of IPC. Police started investigation and on
completion of investigation submitted Charge-sheet against the accused-
Biplab Gogoi u/s 366(A)/376 of IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.

as On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charge u/s 366/376 of IPC read with Section- 4 of
POCSO Act and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not
guilty. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined two witnesses.
On perusal of evidence of witnesses, it is seen that the witness did not
implicate the accused as to the involvement in the alleged commission of
offence. However, the accused was examined u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

4. Point for determination :

(i) That you , on 19-9-2017 at about 12.30 PM at Village-
Moridhal Borphukan under Dhemaji Police Station, kidnapped/
abducted Miss ‘Xx’, a minor girl aged about 16 years while she was
returning home from her College with intent that she might be
compelled to marry you against her will, or that she might be forced or
seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby you committed an offence
punishable u/s 366 of IPC.

(ii) That, on the same day, time and place you committed rape
on Miss ‘xX’ and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s
3760f IPC.

(iii) That you, on the same day, time and place, you committed
penetrative sexual assault on Miss ‘X’, a minor girl aged about 16
years, and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of
POCSO Act.

4 I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof :
ES Reasons thereof

6. PW1 Miss ‘Xx’ is the victim. She has stated that she I knows the
accused. The incident took place about 6 months back. The accused is well
acquainted with her and she developed friendship with the accused and on
the date of occurrence she accompanied accused and went to Boginadi and
visited the house of accused's elder sister. They Stayed there for one night.
Her parents searched for her as she went out without knowledge and consent
of her parents. Her father lodged complaint at the police station. When she
came to know that her father lodged complaint, she informed him over phone
that she came to Boginodi along with the accused. Her father came and
brought her back home. Accused did not physically abuse her. Police
recorded her statement and she also gave statement before Magistrate.
apis
\M

Special Judge,
Dhamail.

In cross-examination PW1 Stated that her father lodged

compliant as she went out without his knowledge and permission. Later on
when she told her father everything he realized that the case should not have
been filed against accused. So her father is now not willing to proceed
against the accused. She further stated that the accused has not in any way
abused her.
J; PW2 Diganta Changmai is the complainant and father of the
victim. He knows the accused. The incident took place about 6 months back.
At the time of occurrence his daughter was a student of HS 1% year. On the
date of occurrence his daughter went missing and later on he came to know
that in fact she along with accused went to Boginodi to visit accused’s elder
sister's house. They stayed there for a night. He was worried and he lodged
complaint. On being asked his daughter told him that accused did not do any
harm to her. Ext.1 is ejahar. Ext.1(1) is his signature .

: In cross-examination PW2 stated that now he is not willing to
proceed against the accused. Whatever statement of his daughter had earlier
made it was result of their anger. He has nothing to say if the case ends in
acquittal.

8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that
in this case the victim and the complainant were examined as PW-1 and PW2
respectively. In their evidence both the vital Stated that on the date of
occurrence the accused and the victim girl went to Boginodi to visit the house
of accused’s elder sister. Both victim and the accused stayed there at
Boginodi for a night. Both the witnesses further stated that the accused did
nothing to the victim. In cross examination PW2 stated that they are not
willing to proceed against the accused. PW2 also stated that he has nothing
to say if the case is ended in acquittal. From the evidence of both the vital
witnesses (PW1 and PW2), it is seen that both the parties have compromised
the case outside the court and hence, they are not willing to proceed against
the accused.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences U/S 366/376 IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act. I find that the
Prosecution has totally failed to Prove the charges u/s 366/376 IPC R/W
section 4 of POCSO Act.

10. In view of the above, I find accused-Biplab Gogoi @
Akomani not guilty u/s 366/376 IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act.
Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charges leveled against him. Set him at
liberty forthwith.

aa Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
12, Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 14th
day of August/2018.
-20lg
14-8
(S. Das )

Qaeeiduagdge,
| Bereta ji.
