IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE :::: SIVASAGAR

Present :-  SriS.K. Poddar, AJS
Special | udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 U/ S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.
(Arising out of Demow P.S. Case No. 98/2016)

State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Hemanta Pandav ........... Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
For the accused Mr. D. K. Gohain, Advocate
(State Defence Counsel)

Date of framing Charge: 21.07.2016
Dates of Evidence 24.05.2017, 28.08.2017,

20.03.2018, 11.06.2018,

29.08.2018
Date of S/D 24.09.2018
Date of Argument 02.02.2019
Date of J udgment 16.02.2019

UDGMENT
1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 03.05.2016, one Sri N. Pandav

lodged an FIR with O/C, Demow P.S. alleging, inter alia, that by maintaining
love affairs for about a year with his minor daughter victim 'R' (name withheld),
about two months back (from the date of filing FIR), accused forcibly
committed rape on the victim by taking her to Deroi Bagan and caused her
pregnant. When the matter was informed to informant by the victim, the
accused took the victim to his house and kept for six days. However on
30.04.2016 the parents-in-law and husband of the victim drove her away from
their house and on her return, she disclosed the matter to them.

Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 1 of 12
2. On this FIR, Demow P.S. Case No. 98/2016 u/s 4 of POCSO Act,
2012 was registered and investigated. During investigation, accused was
arrested and forwarded to Court. The victim was medically examined and also
sent to Court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On completion of
investigation, 1.0. has submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused u/s 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012.

3. Upon taking cognizance on the Charge-Sheet and after furnishing
copy to the accused, vide order dated 21.07.2016, my learned predecessor in
office has framed the charges u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial. During trial, prosecution

has examined seven witnesses including M.O. and |.0.

4, Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was
called upon to enter into defence. Defence case is of total denial and false

implication.

5. | have heard argument of learned Special P.P. Mr. Srimanta Gogol
and Mr. D. K. Gohain, learned State Defence Counsel and gone through the

evidence on record. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

6. (i) What was the age of the victim at the time of incident?

(iil) | Whether accused has committed penetrative sexual assault on
the victim?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. PW-1 Dr. Sanjib Mahanta, the medical officer in his evidence
deposed that on 04.05.2016 at about 12.30 PM, on police requisition, he
examined the victim R in connection with Demow PS Case No. 98/2016 U/S 4 of
POCSO Act. On examination he opined that the victim girl was below 18 years
of age. There was no evidence of injury or sign of recent sexual intercourse.

There was no evidence of pregnancy at the time of examination. Ext. 1 is the

Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 2 of 12
medical report and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. Ext.1(2) is the X-ray report of Dr.
Ranjit Hazarika, radiologist. In his cross examination, PW-1 deposed that before
medical examination, he has not taken the history of the occurrence from the
victim. Due to incomplete fusion of one joint the girl cannot be said to have
attained majority even though elbow joint shows complete fusion. He denied

that due to the fusion of elbow joint, the girl was above 18 years.

8. PW-2 the victim R in her evidence deposed that about 1% years
back, she was a student of class VIII. On the day incident, at about 2 pm while
she was returning from school alone, on way, accused Hemanta met her and
forcibly took her to inside Diori T.E. and opened her cloth, and by laying her on
ground, committed rape on her. She resisted him but failed. After committing
rape, he intimidated her for not to disclose the matter to others. After about
three amounts of this incident, accused took her to his house with an intention
to marry her and made physical relation with her. After keeping her for a week,
mother of the accused forced her to leave her house. On returning home, she
informed the mater to her aunty Jina Pandav and her mother. On this they
went to the house of the accused to keep her in the house of accused but he
refused to accept her. She become pregnant due to physical relationship with
the accused. Due to refusal of the accused to keep her with him, her father
lodged the FIR. Police got her medically examined. She was taken to Court,
where she gave her statement vide Exbt. 2. Exbt. After filling of the case, due
to falling, miscarriage occurred. In her cross examination by defence, PW-2
deposed that before police she stated that, she was a student of class X and
her age was 16 years. Accused is a resident of Amguri but he used to reside
and doing cultivation at the residence of his maternal uncle Munindra Pandav of
Saru Diroi Gaon. Her residence is at Bor-Diori Gaon. Accused used to visit their
residence and came in touch with her. Dayabati Pandav is her elder sister. She
is elder then her for about 10 years. She denied that accused had love affairs
with her sister Dayabati. Prior to alleged incident of this case, she went with the
accused to his Amguri Residence at Tiphuk T.E. and stayed there with him. On

Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 3 of 12
the date of incident, after committing rape, accused assured her to take her
with him. She did not inform the incident of alleged rape or taking her with him
to her parents or anybody else. She has not stated before police that accused
assured her to take with him. She denied that accused did not take her to
inside T.E. and committed rape on her. Doctor has confirmed her pregnancy
and police took the papers from her. During medical examination after the
case, she informed the doctor about her pregnancy. She denied that, she
deposed falsely about her pregnancy and miscarriage. She denied that after the
alleged incident, she on her own went to the residence of accused to stay there
and but mother of the accused compelled her to leave the house by giving
intimidation. Her father has filed this case as accused refused to keep her with

him. She denied that her father has filed this false case.

9. PW-3 Sri Neeladri Pandav, father of the victim, in his evidence
deposed that about 1% years back, his daughter was a student of class 1X. On
knowing that his daughter was pregnant by two months, on asking she told him
that accused Hemanta has forcibly taken her to Diroi Bagan and committed
rape on her. During summer vacation, his daughter went to the house of
accused and stayed there for about one month. After this Hemanta put back
Victim to his house. On this, they went to the house of accused for putting
Victim to his house and a village meeting was organised but accused refused to
accept her and also refused to take burden of her pregnancy. On this they
returned back and he filed this case at Demow PS. FIR was written by
Padmeswar Rajbangshi. Exbt. 3 is the FIR. Police seized one school certificate
of age. Exbt. 4 is the seizure list. Exbt. 4(i) is his signature. After filling of this
case, miscarriage happened with victim due to her fall. In his cross examination
by defence, PW-3 deposed that prior to this incident, victim went to the house
twice and after the alleged incident, she went to the house of accused once and
Stayed there for few days. Except on coming on light about pregnancy, Victim
never told him about any physical relation or incident of rape by accused with
her. He lodged the FIR on the next day of refusal by the accused to keep her

Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 4 of 12
with him. In his FIR, he mentioned that on 30.04.2016, husband and father-in-
law of his daughter have driven her out and on her briefing, he came to know
about the incident. He lodged the FIR on 03.05.2016. He brought the school
certificate with him. He denied that he has not given any certificate to police.
He denied that he has no knowledge as to why he put his signature in Exbt. 4.
He denied that he deposed falsely about pregnancy and miscarriage of his

daughter.

10. PW-4 Smt. Jeena Pandav in her evidence deposed that at the time
of incident victim was aged about 13 years. About 1% years back, while Victim
Pandav was a Student of class VIII, one day she told her that since last two
months she did not have menstruation period. On this, she was taken to
demow hospital for pregnancy test which gave positive test. On being
confirmed that she was pregnant by two months, on asking she told her and
others that while she was returning from school, accused Hemanta has taken
her to Diroi Bagan and committed rape on her. She has also told her that she
was taken by accused for three four times. Prior to confirmation of pregnancy,
victim went to the house of accused and stayed in his house for about one
week. On knowing about pregnancy by accused, they went to the house of
accused for putting victim to his house and a village meeting was organised but
accused refused to accept her and also refused to take burden of her
pregnancy. Parents of accused also denied the allegations. On this, father of
victim, filed a case at Demow PS. After filling of this case, miscarriage
happened with victim. In her cross examination by defence, PW-4 deposed that
she cannot say how victim came in touch with accused Hemanta. Only after
becoming pregnant victim told her about the incident. On Knowing about
pregnancy, they made attempt to put victim in the house of accused and on
failure, matter was informed to police. After two months of filling the case,
miscarriage happened to Victim. She denied that accused was not responsible
for the alleged pregnancy of Victim. She denied that victim was never pregnant
nor any miscarriage happened to her. Mother of Victim expired long back.

Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 5 of 12
Dayabati is the elder sister of Victim. Dayabati is the eldest. Victim is the
youngest. In between them, there are three other children of Niladri. She
denied that Victim is aged more that 18 years. The incident was informed to
maternal uncle of the accused. She denied that her evidence on village meeting
is false and she did not state about the meeting to Police. Meeting was held at
Tiphuk Bagan. She denied that a meeting was held at Deroi which was
attended by Munindra Pandav. She denied that on denial allegation by

Munindra, Niladri lodged this false case.

11. PW-5 Sri Manglu Pandav in his evidence deposed that father and
aunt of victim informed him that victim was pregnant by two months through
accused Hemanta Pandav and took him to the house of accused. A village
meeting was organised at the court yard of the accused but accused refused to
accept victim and also refused to take burden of her pregnancy. Family
members of accused also rebuked them. On this, they returned back and Nialdri
filed this case at Demow PS. Police seized one school certificate of Victim
Pandav. Exbt. 4 is the seizure list. At that time Victim was a student of class |X.
In his cross examination by defence, PW-5 deposed that he came to know
about the incident only on the day of going to the house of accused. He has not
seen the seized certificate in Court. While giving statement to police, he has not
Stated that victim was a student of class |X. Dayabati is the elder sister of
Victim. She is elder by about 1% - 2 years from victim. He has not inquired
from victim about her pregnancy. Munindra Pandav, is a school teacher and he
is the maternal uncle of accused. Victim has his relative at Tipuk T.E., the
village of accused. He has no knowledge about visit of victim to the village of
accused. He never heard that a proposal for marriage of Dayabati was given to
accused but he refused. He has no personal knowledge about pregnancy of
Victim or delivery. He has not noticed about pregnancy symptoms on Victim. He

deposed only on the basis of information derived from J ina and Niladri Pandav.

12. PW-6 Sri Munindra Pandav, maternal uncle of the acused, in his

evidence deposed that after filling of this case by Niladri Pandav, he heard that
Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 6 of 12
victim was pregnant through accused Hemanta Pandav. He also heard that a
village meeting was organised at the court yard of the accused but he is not
aware of the result of the meeting. Victim was student of his school and left the
school after passing class IV and joined M.E. School. In his cross examination
by defence, PW-6 deposed that Dayabati is the elder sister of Victim. He know
that a proposal for marriage of Dayabati was given to accused but his parents
refused. He heard that by taking the proposal of marriage of Dayabati to the
house of accused and on their refusal, they filed this case. He has no personal
knowledge about pregnancy of victim. He has not asked the matter to victim,
Jina or Niladri Pandav. He has not noticed about pregnancy symptoms on

Victim. He has not heard about abortion of Victim.

13. PW-7 Inspector Dipak Sutradhar, the I/O of this case in his
evidence deposed that during investigation, he seized the School certificate of
the victim on being produced by the informant. Exbt. 4 is the seizure list. As per
the school certificate, on 31.12.2014 the victim was 14 years of age. Original
school certificate was given in zimma to the informant. Thereafter, at about 4
PM he arrived at the place of occurrence i.e. section No. 2 of Diroi T.E. as
shown by the victim, he drawn a rough sketch map of the PO. Exbt. 5 is the
Said sketch map. Exbt. 5(i) is his signature. On 04.05.2016, the victim was sent
for medical examination and also sent to Court for recording her statement u/s
164 Cr.P.C. During investigation, he has collected the medical report and
Statement given by victim in court. On 23.05.2016, accused was arrested from
Tipuk T.E. under Halwating PS and forwarded to Court. On completion of
investigation, he has submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 4 of
POCSO Act. Exbt. 6 is the charge sheet. In his cross examination by defence,
PW-7 deposed that as per FIR, date of occurrence was on 30.04.2016 and FIR
was lodged only on 03.05.2016. In the FIR there was no mention as to cause of
delay in lodging FIR. The victim while giving statement to him has stated her

age as 16 years and that she is a student of class X. Victim in her statement did

Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 7 of 12
not stated that “accused has assured her to take with him.” As per medical

report, there was no mention of finding pregnancy of the victim.

14. Point No. IL: So far age of the victim is concerned, PW 1 the M.O.
in his evidence opined that the victim girl was below 18 years of age and said
opinion was formed due to incomplete fusion of left wrist joint epiphysis. The
victim in her evidence as PW 2 while claiming her age as 14 years stated that at
the time of incident she was a student of Class-VIII|. However in her cross by
defence she stated that before police she has stated her age as 16 years and a
student of Class-X. PW 4 Smt. Jeena Pandav, aunt of the victim claims that at
the time of incident victim was aged about 13 years. PW 7, the I.0. of this case
in his cross confirmed that victim has stated her age as 16 years and also
claimed that she is a student of Class-X. Admittedly PW 7, the |.0. has seized
one school certificate of the victim which discloses that on 31.12.2014 the
victim was 14 years of age. From the above materials on record, | am of the
Opinion that on the date of filing of the FIR i.e. on 03.05.2016, the victim was
aged about 16 years.

15. Point No. Il: So far allegation of penetrative sexual assault on
the victim is concerned, it was the evidence of the victim that while she was
returning from school alone, accused forcibly took her to inside Deroi Tea
Estate, opened her cloth and by laying her on ground committed rape on her
against her will. She further stated that after committing rape, accused
intimidated her for not to disclose the matter to others. She further stated that
after about three months of this incident, accused took her to his house with an
intention to marry her and after keeping her for a week but mother of the
accused forced her to leave their house. Then she returned home and informed
the matter to her mother and aunt. On this, they also went to the house of the
accused to keep her in the house of accused but he refused to accept her. The
victim specifically stated that she became pregnant due to physical relationship
with the accused. She further stated that after filing of the case, due to falling,

miscarriage happened. However on looking at the evidence of PW 1 the M.O.,
Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 8 of 12
it appears that FIR was lodged on 03.05.2016 and on the next day victim was
examined at Sivasagar Civil Hospital and upon examination, Doctor did not find
any mark of violence on her body, no discharge or stain were found and the
pregnancy test gave negative result. Thus it appears that during medical
examination, the M.O. did not find any evidence of pregnancy on the victim
which makes the evidence of the victim doubtful so far her claim that she
conceived through accused and after filing of the case, miscarriage happened.
Had the same been true, the M.O. could have either detect the pregnancy or

detect the fact of abortion.

16. In her cross examination, the victim admitted that while the
accused used to reside at the house of his maternal uncle, he used to visit her
residence and came in touch with her. She further admitted that accused Is a
resident of Amguri and prior to alleged incident of this case, she went with the
accused to his Amguri residence and stayed there with him. She admitted that
she did not inform the alleged incident of rape or taking her with him to her
parents. From the above admissions, it appears that the victim is a close
acquaintance of the accused and prior to the alleged incident of rape, she
visited his residence and stayed with him. Admittedly the case was filed due to
refusal of the accused to keep the victim with him. Victim denied that she
forcibly wanted to stay with the accused, on which the accused refused to

accept her.

17. PW 3, the informant is hearsay witness so far the allegation of
penetrative sexual assault on the victim. In his evidence he stated that during
summer vacation, his daughter victim went to the house of accused and stayed
there for about one month. However, this fact was suppressed in the FIR. After
putting back the victim to his house, the case was filed. In his cross, he
admitted that prior to this incident, victim went to the house of accused twice.
He also admitted that except on coming on light about pregnancy, the victim
never told him regarding her physical relationship with the accused. PW 4, the

aunt of the victim in her evidence stated that she came to know about the
Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 9 of 12
alleged incident of rape on the victim due to stopping of her menstruation
period and upon confirming her pregnancy for about two months. She further
deposed that accused took her to Bagan for 3-4 times, which the victim did not
allege. She further stated that prior to confirmation of pregnancy, victim went
to the house of accused and stayed in his house for about one week. On
knowing about the pregnancy through accused, they again went to the house

of accused for putting the victim and on his refusal, the case was filed.

18. So from the above evidence on record, it appears that there is a
vast difference between the circumstances and the facts as narrated by PW 2
the victim, PW 3 and PW 4. As per the victim, about two months back, rape
was committed on her for which she become pregnant and on detecting her
pregnancy she informed the matter to the accused and accused took her to his
house, kept her for six days, but his parents did not allow her to stay there.
More or less this fact was supported by her father PW 3, but her aunt PW 4 has
twisted the facts. PW 4 affirmed that before detection of pregnancy, victim
went to the house of accused, stayed there for about one week and on
detection of pregnancy she was sent back. Thus, it appears that none of the
witnesses corroborating each other on material points. | have already held that
the version of detection of pregnancy and subsequent miscarriage after filing of
the FIR was negated by the PW 1, the M.O. PW 5 and PW 6 are hearsay
witnesses of the village meeting. PW 7 is the I/O, who did the routine

investigation of this case.

19. The above contradictions as mentioned and found in the evidence
of PW 2 the victim, PW 3 and PW 4 clearly indicates that Section 29 of POCSO
Act 2012 cannot be made applicable in this case. The legal presumption
appears to have been rebutted by the inherent contradictions found in the
evidence of PW 2, PW 3 and PW 4. The evidence of PW 2 the victim alone is
found untrustworthy and unbelievable though her evidence stands on a higher
pedestal than the evidence of other witnesses. In this case a big doubt remains

in the prosecution story so far role of the accused is concerned. In absence of
Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 10 of 12
any presumption due to the contradictory evidence of PW 2 with PW 3 and PW

4, | am of the opinion that accused deserved to get benefit of doubt.

20. Considering all above, | am of the opinion that prosecution has
failed to prove the ingredients of charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act 2012 or any minor
offence against the accused Hemanta Pandav. As such, accused Hemanta
Pandav is acquitted from the charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and set at
liberty forthwith.

21. Bail bond executed by the accused and his surety stand extended

for another six months from today u/s 437-A Cr.P.C.

22. Considering the nature of the case, the matter is not referred to

DLSA for granting compensation u/s 357-A Cr.P.C.

23. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

24. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of
on contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 16" day of
February 2019 at Sivasagar.

Special | udge,
Sivasagar

Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 11 of 12
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses -
PW1- Dr. Sanjib Mahanta (M.O.)
PW2- Victim 'R'
PW 3- Sri Niladri Pandav (Informant)
PW4- Smt. Jeena Pandav
PW5- Sri Manglu Pandav
PW6- Sri Munindra Pandav
PW 7- Inspector Dipak Sutradhar (1.0.)

2. Defence witnesses : None

3. Court witnesses None

4. Exhibits by prosecution -
Exbt.l - Medical report
Exbt.2 - Statement of the victim given u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Exbt.3 - FIR
Exbt.4 - Seizure list
Exbt.5 - Sketch map
Exbt.6 - Charge-Sheet.

Special | udge,

Spl (P) Case No. 15 of 2016 Page 12 of 12
