IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE NAGAON.
Present- A. Rahman, LL.M, AJS

Special (POCSO) case No- 62(N)/2018.
U/S- 6 of the POCSO Act.

Parties -

-V/s-

Mukshidul Islam

S/O- Abu Taher

Village-UralKata.

PS- Moirabari.
Charge framed on - 20-9-2018.
Evidence recorded on - 12-3-2019.
Argument heard on - 12-3-2019.
Judgment delivered on - 12-3-2019.

Appearance -

For the prosecution- Mr. M.J. Neog, learned special
prosecutor.

For the defence - Mr. A. Hussain, learned Advocate.

J U D G M E N T

The instant case arose out of Juria PS case No-50/16 registered U/S-
366(A) IPC.

Briefly stating, the prosecution case is that Mrs. Sobhana (actual
name with-held), village -Parmai-obheti lodged Ext-2 FIR with the
officer in-charge of Juria police station on 3-2-2016 to the effect
that her minor daughter (Miss-X) aged 14 years while going to
Knaduli-mari High School on 02/06/2016 at 7.30 AM, accused
Mukshidul Islam accompanied by three other unknown persons
kidnapped her by a Tata Sumo-vehicle to his house. Thereafter,
father and other family members of accused Mukshidul Islam kept
her victim daughter confined in some unknown place. Hence this
case.

Based on the FIR, the aforesaid case was registered and the
criminal investigation was put in to motion as soon as SI Munindra
Kr, Nath was entrusted to investigate the case.

During the course of investigation, the victim child was recovered.
She was produced before the doctor for her medical examination
but she refused to undergo medical examination. Her statement
U/S-164 CrPC was recorded. The accused was arrested and he was
forwarded to jail custody.

On completion of investigation, police submitted charge sheet
against the accused U/S-366(A) IPC.

Smt M. Bhadani, learned Additional CJM having complied the S-207
CRPC committed the case to the court of learned Sessions Judge.

Subsequently, the case was transferred to this court for disposal.
Considering the statement of the victim girl and other materials on
record, prima-facie, it was found that the accused committed
offence U/S-6 of the POCSO Act.

Accordingly, the instant case under POCSO Act was registered.

Upon hearing both sides and considering the materials, charge U/S-
6 of the POCSO Act was framed, read over and explained to the
accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

Prosecution, during trial examined the victim-child and her mother
who is the complainant.

After considering the evidence of the said two vital witnesses,
further prosecution case was closed. The accused, in his statement
U/S-313, has denied the prosecution-allegation and declined to
adduce defence evidence.

| have heard Mr. M. J. Neog, learned Special prosecutor and Mr. A.
Hussain, learned Advocate for the defence. Also meticulously gone
through the evidence and materials on record.

Now the point for determination is -Whether the accused
committed aggravated sexual assault upon the victim girl as such
liable to punished U/S-6 of the POCSO Act?
DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

 

In order to prove the offence U/S-6 of the POCSO Act against the
accused, the prosecution has to prove the followings -

First the accused committed penetrative sexual offence on the
child more than once or repeatedly.

“Penetrative Sexual Assault” is if the person

1. He penetrate his penis, to any extent, into the vagina , mouth,
urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person; or

2. He inserts, to any extent , any object or a part of the body , not
being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child
or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

3. He manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of the
body of the child or makes the child to do so with him or any
other person; or

4. He applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the
child or makes the child to do so to such person or any other
person.

Now let me see the relevant evidence of the witnesses.

Complainant has been examined as PW-2. The victim girl (Miss X)
has been examined as PW-1. PW-2 deposed that, about 3 years
back on 26" January her minor daughter (PW-1) went to school, but
she did not return home. Although she was searching her daughter
at many places but in vain. Accordingly she lodged Ext-2 FIR at
Juria PS. She has confirmed that, Ext-2(1) is her signature. She has
further testified that, after 20 days of occurrence police informed
her regarding recovery of her daughter. Accordingly she went to
the PS and brought her back home. On being asked her daughter
replied that, she had gone to the house of Mukshidul.

Cross examination of PW-2 was declined.

PW-1 being the victim is the star witness of the prosecution side.
She stated that, love affairs developed between her and the
accused when she visited the house of her paternal uncle. About 3
years back just prior to 2 days her mother saw her talking with
accused Mukshidul for which she was scolded. Thereafter she
voluntarily went to the house of the accused. As she did not find
him at his house, she went to the house of her maternal uncle and
was staying there for one month. She has confirmed that, Ext-1 Is
her statement before the magistrate and Ext-1(1) and Ext-1(2) are
her signatures. She has very clearly stated that, she refused to
undergo medical examination.

In her cross examination, PW-1 stated that, her mother lodged the
case without knowing the actual fact.

PW-1 stated her age as 16 years on the date her evidence was
recorded by this court. The occurrence took place about 3 years
back, therefore she was around 13 years at the relevant time. Of
course the defence did not challenge her age.

PW-2 is not the actual eye witness to the occurrence. But she has
been reported by her daughter PW-1 after he recovery. Now from
the evidence of PW-1, it becomes clear that, she voluntarily went to
the house of the accused without being influenced or forced upon
her by him. She has not uttered anything that, the accused had
committed sexual intercourse with her or sexually abused her. PW-
1 although in her Ext-1 statement before the magistrate stated
that, she was staying with the accused as husband and wife and
there was physical intercourse happened between them, but it is
well settled that, the statement of a witness recorded U/S 164 CrPC
is not a substantive piece of evidence. It can be used only for
contradiction or corroboration. It has already been observed that,
PW-1 while deposing before the court has not uttered any
allegation of sexual assault upon her against the accused.
Therefore Ext-1 cannot be a proof of the offence of penetrative
sexual assault upon her by the accused.

Without any statement of the PW-1 before this Special Court
regarding commission of penetrative sexual assault upon her by
the accused, the statutory presumption U/S 29 of the POCSO Act
Cannot be drawn so as to convict the accused.

In the light of the above discussion, it appears that, the prosecution
has failed to prove the offence U/S 6 of the POCSO Act against the
accused beyond reasonable doubt. So the accused is acquitted on
benefit of doubt.

The bail bond of the accused shall remain in force for another six
months in the spirit of section 437 (A) CrPC.

Judgement is declared and delivered on the open court under my
hand and seal on this 12" day of March 2019.

(A Rahman, AJS )
Special Judge , Nagaon.
Judgment prepared & corrected by me.

(A. Rahman, AJS )
Special Judge , Nagaon.
-APPENDIX-

Prosecution witness-

1. PW-1 Victim Girl
2. PW-2 Mother of the victim Girl.

Exhibits-

1. Ext-1 FIR
2. Ext-2 Statement recorded U/S-164 CrPC.

Defence witness-
NIL
Defence Exhibits-

NIL

(A. Rahman, AJS_)
Special Judge , Nagaon.
