IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT & SESSIONS JUDGE CUM
SPECIAL JUDGE-2(FTC)(POCSO) :: :: TINSUKIA

District: Tinsukia

Present: Md. A. Hakim,
District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),
(POCSO)Tinsukia.

POCSO Case No. 28(T)/18
U/s 12 OF POCSO Act

The State of Assam

bec eeaeseeaeeeeaeeaeaess Complainant.

-Versus -

Sri Sukdeep Kheruwar @ Lela,
S/o- Sri Samaru Kheruwa,
R/o- Hilika T.E line no. 14,
P.S- Doomdooma

District- Tinsukia, Assam.

j Severna #5 Som 2 eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal
Spl. PUblIC PrOS@CULOF ......cceeececeeeeee eee eeeenees For the Complainant
Smt. A. Handique
Advocate —— ae cec eee eeeeeeee ees For the accused.

Date of Argument: 30.01.2019.
Date of Judgment: 30.01.2019.
UDGMEN T

. The prosecution case in brief is that on 29.06.18 at about 1 P.M
when the informant and other members of the house were
not at home, the accused entered the house of the informant
and committed sexual harassment upon the 12 years old
daughter of the informant by unrobing her.

. Receiving the FIR, Doom-dooma P.S. registered a case and
investigated the matter and on completion of the investigation,
charge sheet was submitted against the accused and forwarded
to face the trial.

. Upon receiving the record and appearance of the accused in this
court and upon hearing both sides and considering the materials
on record charge u/s 12 of POCSO ACT has’ been framed,
particulars of which on being read over and explained the
accused had pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

. During trial, prosecution examined Six (6) witnesses. The
accused is exempted from examination u/s 313 CrPC as no
material ingredients of offence is found against the accused.

. | have heard argument put forth by the Id. Counsel for both the
sides as well as gone through the entire materials available on
record.

. POINT FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused on 29.06.18 at about 1 PM at
Hilikha Bagan line no. 14, under Doomdoom PS in the
district of Tinsukia had committed sexual
harassment upon the victim girl and thereby
committed an offence punishable U/s. 12 of POCSO
ACT or not?
DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7.

10.

P.W.1, the victim girl has deposed that her age is now
15 years. She has not brought any age proof document. She
knows the accused Sukhdeep Kherua. He is also known by
the name Lela. The incident took place nearly one year back.
One day in the afternoon at about 1 PM after collecting
ration from garden store, she entered in her house and the
accused followed her’ inside her house and the accused
grabbed her from behind and out of fear she cried.
Thereafter her elder brother Bishal came. After half an hour
her father also came and out of anger her father lodged the
ejahar. The period when the accused was fleeing away, his
Chappals were left in his house. He was also produced by
the police for her medical check up at Doomdooma FRU. He
was also brought to court to record her statement before
Magistrate U/s. 164 Cr.P.C. After recording her statement U/s.
164 Cr.P.C she had put her thumb impression.
{At this point the witness is declared hostile with the
permission of the court.}

She denies the suggestion that the accused had lifted
her sporting with the intention to do bad act.

In Cross-examination she has stated that she had good
relation with the accused prior to the incident. The accused
only shocked her from behind, so out of fear lodged the case.
And for that reason an argument took place between her
brother and the accused and out of anger a case was
lodged.

P.W.2, Sri Ranglal Karmakar has stated that the victim
is his daughter. She is around 12-13 years. She has_ not
brought the documents of her age. She knows the accused
Sukhdeep Kherua @ Lela. He resides near their house. The
4

incident took place nearly four or five months back. On the
date of incident she returned home at about 1:30PM and
saw that his daughter was crying. His daughter told him that
the accused had entered his house and he embraced her
from behind and for that she was_ crying and hearing her
cries his son Bishal entered the house and seeing Bishal the
accused fled away. And while the accused was fleeing away
he left his chappal in their house. Hearing this he lodged
the ejahar at Doomdooma police station. Ext. 1 is the
Ejahar, Ext. 1(1) is his signature. He has forgotten the name
of the scribe. Police had seized the Chappal. Ext. 2 is the
seizure-list, Ext. 2(1) is his signature. He has stated in his
ejahar that the accused had embraced his daughter with
bad intention. This fact he wrote out of anger he lodged
the ejahar and before the police hehas stated so out of

anger.

11. In Cross-examination she has stated that he does not
remember the date of birth of his daughter. As argument
took place between his son and the accused, he out of
anger lodged the case. The accused only shocked his
daughter from behind but did not embraced her.

12. P.W.3, Sri Bishal Karmakar has deposed that the victim
is his younger sister. He knows the accused Sukhdeep Kherua
@ Lela. The incident took place nearly six months’ back. On
that day he returned home after 12 noon after viewing
cinema and as he was about to enter his house he heard
cries of his sister. When he entered his house he saw that
accused ran away seeing him and while he was fleeing
away he left the Chappal in his house. On enquiry from his
sister he came to know that the accused had caught hold of
her. Police seized the Chappal.

13. In Cross-examination he has stated that the accused
only shocked his sister from behind. Argument took place
5

between them and out of anger his father lodged this case.

14. P.W.4, Dr. AShma Z.H. Ghaznabi has deposed that on
29.06.18 she was working as Sr. Medical & Health  Officer-
at Doomdooma FRU. That day at about 1:30 AM she
examined the victim girl in connection with Doomdooma P.S
case no. 167/18. She was brought and identified by WHG,
Banti Khatowal and her father Ranglal Karmakar. At the time
of examination she gave the history as - at around 12 noon
on 28.06.18 someone named Sibish Orang came to her
house and tried to undress her. At that moment, the
victim's brother came in the house and the accused ran
away.

On examination she found as follows:

Physical examination : 1) Whether oriental in space &
time---Yes

Pulse, BP, Temperature, Respiratory rate all normal.
Clothing - fresh.

No injury on her person including her private parts.

Hymen - intact.

No any bleeding, tear or discharge found per vagina or

cervix.

Her Radiological examination was done to ascertain her
age and as per the report her age was found to be 15 to
17 years.

Ext. 3 is the Medical Report, Ext. 3(1) is her signature.

Ext. 4 is the Radiological Report with X-ray plates.

15. In Cross-examination she has stated thatit is not the
conclusive proof of age of the victim. The age given in her
report is only on the basis of Radiological report.

16. P.W.5, Sri Sanjoy Boraik has deposed that apart from
doing business, he is Vice President of AATSA.(Sub Branch).
6

He knows the victim as well as the accused. The _ Incident
took place nearly 6 months back. One day in the afternoon
at about 1:30 PM the VDP President, Sri Dilip Nayak
alongwith Ranglal Karmakar(the father of the victim) came to
him and told him that the accused had tried to commit
rape upon the victim and for that reason it was necessary
to discuss the matter. He thereafter immediately went to the
house of Ranglal, found the victim in the house, enquired
from her and she told him that when she was returning from
home taking ration, the accused was hiding near the entry
gate of her house and when she entered the house the
accused caught hold of the victim and immediately thereafter
her brother came and the accused fled away. On being asked
the accused denied his involvement and = during such
interrogation there had been a_ scuffle between and the
accused and the father of the victim. So meeting could not
be held.

17. In Cross-examination he has stated that Police did
not interrogate him. As such, he has not given statement
before the police as given in his examination in chief. He
denies the suggestion that he has deposed falsely.

18. P.W.6, Sri Dilip Nayak has deposed that apart from
doing business, he is President of VDP. He knows the victim
as well as the accused. The Incident took place nearly 6
months back. At about 4P.M the father of the victim came
to his Borhapjan Shop and informed him that the accused
had came to his house and tried to commit rape upon his
daughter. Then he took Sri Ranglal Karmakar to Sanjoy
Boraik and therefrom they went to the house of the
informant. They met the victim girl. On being asked the
victim girl told that the accused had disrobed her sporting
and tried to outrage her modesty. Thereafter he met the

accused who denied his involvement.
19. In Cross-examination he has stated that Police did
not interrogate him. As such, he has not given statement
before the police as given in his examination in chief. He
denies the suggestion that he has deposed falsely.

20. With regard to the point for determination § Ld.
counsel for the defence has pointed out that prosecution has
failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt. The victim
herself has not alleged against the accused person and other
PW’s have also not alleged anything against the accused person.
Hence the accused person should be acquitted and set at liberty.

21. In reply Id. Addl.P.P has admitted that the victim and the
other witnesses have failed to implicate the accused.

22. Upon hearing both sides, | have gone through the
material evidence on record and found that the material
witness victim i.e. PW 1 has deposed that the accused grabbed
her from behind when she returned home _ after collecting
ration and out of fear she cried and in anger her father had
lodged FIR at the PS. During cross examination she states
that “she had good relation with the accused prior to the
incident. The accused only shocked her from behind, so out of
fear lodged the case. And for that reason an argument took
place between her brother and the accused and out of
anger a case was lodged”. The eye witness PW 2, have also
not alleged anything against the accused. The medical evidence
of PW 3 has also disclosed nothing about the sexual harassment.
The PW 5 & 6 are not the eye witnesses and their statement is
not supported by the victim and the family members of the
victim hence not reliable. The prosecution has failed to prove
that the accused had committed the offence of sexual

harassment.
8

23. Hence, considering the evidence on record, | am of the
considered opinion that the Prosecution has failed to prove
the case against the accused U/s. 12 of POCSO Act beyond
all reasonable doubts. Hence, the accused person namely 1) Sri
Sukdeep Kheruwar @ Lela is acquitted on benefit of doubt and
set at liberty.

24. The Prosecution is directed to dispose of the seized
material in accordance with law.

25. Send a copy of the Judgment to the Deputy Commissioner
of Tinsukia.

26. The case is disposed of herewith.

27. Given under her hand and seal of this court on this the

30" day of January, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me:

( A. Hakim), (A. Hakim),
District & Sessions Judge District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC), cum Special Judge-2(FTC),

(POCSO)Tinsukia. (POCSO)Tinsukia.

Transcribed by :

P.D Phukan, (Steno)
9

ANNEXURE

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

P.W.1, Victim,

P.W.2, Sri Ranglal Karmakar,
PW.3 Sri Bishal Karmakar,
PW.4, Dr. AShma Z.H Ghaznabi,
PW.5, Sri Sanjoy Boraik,

PW.6 Sri Dilip Nayak.

PROSECUTION DOCUMENTS :

Ext. 1, is the Ejahar,

Ext. 2 is the Seizure-list,

Ext. 3 is the Medical Report,

Ext. 4, is the Radiological Report.

( A. Hakim),
District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),

(POCSO)Tinsukia.
