Sessions Case No. 157 of 2018

DISTRICT : KAMRUP (M), GUWAHATI

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, KAMRUP (M) GUWAHATI

PRESENT: - Shri A. Chakravarty, M.A., LL.M., AJS

Sessions Case No. 157 of 2018
Under Section 12 of the POCSO Act, 2012

 

StateofAssam la... Complainant
Versus
ShriBhabesh Das —__i”zt...... Accused
Charge framed on : 20.09.2018
Evidence recorded on : 12.11.2018, 11.02.2019 and 25.07.2019.

Statements recorded on : 19.08.2019
Arguments heard on : 19.10.2019

Judgment delivered on : 30.10.2019

Advocates who appeared in this case are:
Smt. Deepa Bezbaruah, Special. P.P., for the Prosecution.

Shri Jogesh Roy Choudhury, Advocate for the accused.

JUDGEMENT

1. This case was registered on 29.03.2017, at Noonmati Police Station, under
Section 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short
“the POCSO Act”), based on a First Information Report (in short “the FIR”) filed by

one Smt. Pramila Haloi, against accused Shri Bhabesh Das.
Sessions Case No. 157 of 2018

2. The case of the prosecution, as stated in the F.I.R, is that on 28.03.2017, at
around 05.00 P.M., at Bijuli Nagar, Forest Gate, Narengi, under Noonmati Police
Station, while the minor daughter of the informant (hereinafter referred to as “the
victim girl”) was brooming their courtyard, their adjacent neighbor namely, the
accused Bhabesh Das, appeared in the compound of his house in naked condition
and gave obscene indication to the victim girl. The accused Bhabesh Das had
been doing the same frequently and mentally tortured the informant and the
victim girl. Therefore, the informant lodged an F.I.R. of the incident with the
Noonmati Police Station on 29.03.2017.

3. Based on the F.I.R., the Officer-in-charge of the Noonmati Police Station
registered the case No. 196/2017, under Section 12 of the POCSO Act against the
accused Bhabesh Das and entrusted W.S.I. of Police namely, Smt. Pallabi Das to
investigate the case. Accordingly, W.S.I. of Police Pallabi Das to investigated the

CaSe.

4. During the course of investigation, the investigating officer recorded
statements of the witnesses. The statement of the victim girl was also recorded
by the Magistrate. After completion of investigation, the investigating officer
submitted charge-sheet for an offence under Section 12 of the POCSO Act against

the accused Bhabesh Das before this court. Hence this case.

5. During trial, my learned predecessor framed a charge under Section 12 of
the POCSO Act against the accused Bhabesh Das. When the contents of the
charge were read over and explained to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty

and claimed to be tried.

6. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined three witnesses. The

defence did not examine any witness.

7. In his examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C., the accused has denied the
prosecution case and has stated that the allegations leveled against him are false

and baseless.
8. The point for determination in this case is:-

Whether on 28.03.2017, at around 05.00 P.M., at Bijuli Nagar, Forest Gate,

Narengi, under Noonmati Police Station the accused Bhabesh Das _ sexually

2
Sessions Case No. 157 of 2018

harassed the victim girl and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 12 of the POCSO Act, 2012?

If so, what punishment does he deserve?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

9. I have carefully examined the evidence on record, gone through the
relevant documents on record and after hearing the arguments advanced by the
learned counsel for both the sides, give my decision on the above point as

follows:-

10. The victim girl (the PW-1) has deposed that on the date of the
occurrence, while she was sweeping the courtyard of their house by means of a
broom, the accused came out and became naked in front of her. She then rushed
towards her house and told her mother about the same. Her mother called a
nearby woman connected with women’s organization. The said woman advised
her to file a case. Then her parents and she went to the police station and her
father filed the instant case. The police asked her about the incident. She was

taken to the court and her statement was recorded. Ext-1 is her said statement.

11. In the cross-examination, she has stated that she used to call the
accused uncle (Bordeuta, meaning the elder brother of her father). She has
visiting terms with the house of the accused. From the backside of their house,
the accused removed his clothes and showed her his private part. He was
wearing a Gamocha (Towel) and ganjee. The incident occurred at around 04:00
P.M. She was sweeping the courtyard of their house and when she looked in the
direction of the accused, the accused removed his clothes. She was sweeping the
front entrance of their house. The accused was standing near his toilet, on the
backside of their house. He did not give any indication to her. She has denied
the suggestion that the accused did nothing and she has deposed falsely as

tutored by her mother.

12. PW-2 Smt. Pramila Haloi, the mother of the victim girl has deposed that
while the victim girl was sweeping the front entrance of their house, the accused
arrived there and removed his clothes and showed her his male organ. Therefore,

she has lodged the Ext-1 F.I.R. of the case against the accused person.
Sessions Case No. 157 of 2018

13. In the cross-examination, she has stated that the incident occurred at
around 04.30 P.M. Her daughter told her about the incident and she lodged the
instant case on the next day. She has also told the Secretary of the Mahila
Sammittee about the incident and she told her to take decision of her own. Her
husband also accompanied her to the police station. One person wrote the F.I.R.
but, she does not know him. The F.I.R. was not read over to her. She did not

ask the accused about the incident. She did not go to the place of occurrence.

14, PW-3 Smt. Pallavi Das, the Investigating Officer is merely a formal

witness of the case.

15. At the time of recording her testimony on 22.11.2018, the victim girl has
stated her age to be 11 years. Therefore, as the alleged incident occurred on
28.03.2017, at the time of the alleged incident, she was aged about 9 years, 8
months old. She has categorically stated that while she was sweeping the front
entrance of their house, the accused removed his clothes and showed his male
organ to her. By cross-examining her, the defence has failed to bring out anything
based on which it can be said that she was not telling the truth. Therefore, her
testimony must be accepted to be true. Therefore, her testimony must be

accepted to be true.

16. In the case of Manoj Kumar vs. The State Of Uttarakhand,
reported in (2019) 5 SCC 667, the Hon’ble Supreme Court has held that:-

“11. In the absence of any existing enmity between the accused and
the witnesses there exists no ground to question the veracity of the witnesses or

to raise a ground of false implication...”

17. In the instant case, the defence did not even suggest to the victim girl
and her mother they enmity with the accused. Therefore, the question falsely

implicating the accused by them does not arise.

18. In view of the discussion made above, it must be held that on
23.02.2017, at around 05.00 P.M., at Bijuli Nagar, Forest Gate, Narengi, under
Noonmati Police Station, the accused Bhabesh Das sexually harassed the victim

girl, who, on the day of the alleged occurrence, was a child of about 9 years old,
Sessions Case No. 157 of 2018

by removing his clothes in front of her and showing her his penis, which is an
offence punishable under Section 12 of the POCSO Act.

19. For the purpose of this case, we may first firstly refer to Section 11 of
the POCSO Act, which reads as follows:-

20. “Section 11- A person is said to commit sexual harassment upon a

child when such person with sexual intent, -

(i) utter any word or makes any sound, or makes any gesture or exhibits any
object or part of body with the intention that such word or sound shall be heard,

or such gesture or object or part of body shall be seen by the child; or

(ii) makes a child exhibit his body or any part of his body so as it is seen by such

person or any other person.”

21. The scope of the provision of Section 11 crystal clear. Hence, the Section
does not require further elucidation. Section 12 is the penal provision for Section

11 which reads as follows:-

22. “Section 12- Punishment for sexual harassment — Whoever, commits
sexual harassment upon a child shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to

fine.”

23. In order to attract any offence under the provisions of the POCSO Act,
it should be proved by the prosecution that on the date of the commission of the
crime, the victim was a child. The term "child" has been defined in Section 2(d) of
the POCSO Act, which states that child means any person below the age of 18
years. Thus, for the purpose of any offence under the POCSO Act, on the date of
commission of the alleged crime, the age of the victim should be proved to be
below 18 years. In the instant case, it can be seen from the above discussion that
the victim girls, who on the day of the alleged occurrence was child under 18
years of age, withstood cross-examination. The accused did not even challenge
the victim girls in the cross-examination that on the day of the alleged occurrence,
she was not a child under 18 years of age. Therefore, the accused must be held
guilty of committing the offence punishable under Section 12 of the POCSO Act.
Sessions Case No. 157 of 2018

24. Regarding culpable mental state of the accused, Section 30 of the POSCO

Act is relevant, which reads as follows:

25. “30. Presumption of culpable mental state.-(1) In any prosecution
for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part
of the accused, the Special Court shall presume the existence of such mental state
but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such

mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when the
Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its

existence is established by a preponderance of probability”.

26. In the instant case, as the accused removed his clothes and showed his
male organ to the victim girl, it must be held that the accused did so with intent to
sexually harass the victim girl who, on the day of the alleged occurrence, was
child of about 9 years old. Therefore, his culpable mental state has to be
presumed. Further, the accused did not rebut the said presumption by adducing
any evidence and the evidence on record does not prove his innocence.
Therefore, I hold that the accused Bhabesh Das had culpable mental state while
removing his clothes and showing his male organ to the victim girl. Apart from the
same, the presumption of guilt under Section 29 of the POSCO Act must also
needs to be applied to the case as all the necessary facts regarding commission of
the offence under the POSCO Act have been proved by the prosecution. The said
presumption also has not been rebutted by the accused persons by adducing any

evidence and the evidence on record does not prove his innocence.

27. Failing to shake the prosecution case, the learned counsel for the
accused vehemently argued that as the FIR was not filed immediately after the
alleged occurrence, the prosecution case is liable to be rejected in its entirety for

the delay in lodging the FIR.

28. I do not agree with this contention of the learned counsel for the accused
as the alleged occurrence took place on 28.03.2017, at around 05.00 P.M. and the
Fir was lodged on the next day.
Sessions Case No. 157 of 2018

29. In the result, from the facts and circumstances of the case and above
discussion, I hold that the prosecution has succeeded in bringing home the charge
under Section 12 of the POCSO Act against the accused Bhabesh Das beyond all
reasonable. Hence, I hold the accused Bhabesh Das guilty of committing an
offence punishable under Section 12 of the POCSO Act and convict him under the

said Section of law. The point is decided in the affirmative, accordingly.

30. As can be seen from the discussion made above, by becoming nude and
exhibiting his penis to the victim girl with the intention that the victim girl should
see him in nude condition and also see his penis, the accused has committed
sexual harassment upon the victim girl as described in Section 11 (i) of the POCSO
Act, 2012. If the accused did not do so with sexual intention, he would not have
done the same at all as he could not have any other intention to become nude

and exhibit his penis to the victim girl.

31. In view of the fact that the crime against children has been increasing
day by day and to deal with such crimes, the Parliament has to enact a special
statute like the POCSO Act and the object and reasons of enacting the POCSO Act
is to protect the children from offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment and
pornography and to provide for establishment of Special Court for trial of such

offences and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.

32. In the case of State of A.P. v. BodemSundara Rao, reported in
(1995) 6 SCC 230: AIR 1996 SC 530, dealing with a case of reduction of sentence
from 10 years R.I. to 4 years R.I. by the High Court in the case of rape of a girl
aged between 13 and 14 years, the Hon’ble Supreme Court has observed as

follows:

“In recent years, we have noticed that crime against women are on the
rise. These crimes are an affront to the human dignity of the society. Imposition of
grossly inadequate sentence and particularly against the mandate of the
legislature not only is an injustice to the victim of the crime in particular and the
society as a whole in general but also at times encourages a criminal. The Courts
have an obligation while awarding punishment to impose appropriate punishment
so as to respond to the society's cry for justice against such criminals. Public

abhorrence of the crime needs a reflection through the Court's verdict in the
Sessions Case No. 157 of 2018

measure of punishment. The Courts must not only keep in view the rights of the
criminal but also the rights of the victim of crime and the society at large while
considering imposition of the appropriate punishment. The heinous crime of
committing rape on a helpless 13/14 years old girl shakes our judicial conscience.
The offence was inhumane.” The sentence was accordingly enhanced to 7 years

R.I. in the said case.

33. In view of the above, I do not think it proper to give the accused the
benefit of the ameliorative relief as envisaged under the Probation of Offenders
Act.

34. Heard the convict on the question of sentence. He has pleaded leniency

in awarding the punishment on the grounds that he is a first offender.

35. The punishment for commission of an offence under Section 12 of the
POCSO Act is imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to

three years and fine.

36. In the case of CHANDER SINGH Vs. STATE, reported in (2016) 2
Crimes 792, in a case under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, the Hon’ble Delhi High

Court has held as follows:--

“20. Consequently, the conviction of Chander Singh is altered to one
for offence defined under Section 7 and punishable under Section 8 of POCSO Act.
The punishment for sexual assault prescribed under Section 8 is imprisonment for
not less than 3 years which may extend up to 5 years and to pay fine as well. The
conduct of Chander Singh in sexually assaulting a deaf and dumb girl who was not
in a position to protect herself fully warrants maximum punishment. Consequently,
the order on sentence of Chander Singh is altered and modified. Chander Singh is
directed to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 5 years and to pay a
fine of Rs. 10,000/- in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a

period of 1 month.”

37. But, in the instant case, the accused has not touched the victim girl and
the victim girl has categorically stated in the cross-examination that the accused
did not give any indication to her. Therefore, I deem it proper to punish the

accused leniently.
Sessions Case No. 157 of 2018

ORDER

38. Considering the entire facts and circumstances of the case, and as the
convict Bhabesh Das has undergone imprisonment for 56 days during
investigation, instead of awarding any sustentative sentence of imprisonment, if
the period of detention already undergone by the accused is set of against the
sustentative sentence, the same will serve the ends of justice in this case., which I
do accordingly. Further, the convict is directed to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/-
(Rupees ten thousands) only, in default to undergo simple imprisonment for one
month, which in my considered opinion will meet the ends of justice. The fine, if
realized, shall be paid to the victim girl as a token of compensation. In the facts
and circumstances of the case, there is no necessity of awarding any more
compensation to the victim girl. The bail bond of the convict Bhabesh Das stands

cancelled. Issue Jail warrant.

39. Furnish a copy of the judgment to the convict Bhabesh Das free of cost,

immediately.

40. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on this the 30” day of
October, 2019, in Guwahati.

(Shri A.Chakravarty)
Special Judge,
Kamrup (M), Guwahati
Dictated & corrected by me.

(Shri A. Chakravarty)
Special Judge,
Kamrup (M), Guwahati
Sessions Case No. 157 of 2018

APPENDIX

A.Prosecution Witnesses:
1. PW-1 Anita Haloi

2. PW-2 Pramila Haloi

3. PW-3 Pallavi Das

B. Prosecution Exhibits:

1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim.
2. Ext. 2 FIR

3. Ext. 3 Charge-sheet

(Shri A.Chakravarty)
Special Judge
Kamrup (M),Guwahati

10
