IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE i: BONGAIGAON

Special(P)Case No. 14(M)/2018
U/S 6 of POCSO Act 2012

(Arising out of Manikpur P.S Case No. 72 of 2018)

State of Assam

Vs.

Mofidul Islam
eile Accused person

PRESENT: Sri B.K. Chetri,

Special Judge,

Bongaigaon.
ADVOCATES APPEARED :
For the State : Sri R. Choudhury, Public Prosecutor
For the accused : Sri Mohidul Islam Advocate

Date of Argument : 17.12.2019
Date of Judgment: 21.12.2019

 

JUDGMENT AND ORDER

a The prosecution case as per the FIR dated 21-02-2018 of
Sumar Ali against the accused Mofidul Islam and Jonab Ali is that since
last two years the accused Mofidul Islam on the inducement to marry had
sexual intercourse with his cousin named H (17 years) and on 15-02-

2018 at about 11:00 PM the accused Mofidul taking advantage of Miss H

alone in the house came there, threatened her and had sexual intercourse

- with her during the whole night and left at around 4:00 AM. Prior to this
ad incident also the accused had raped Miss H on the bank of the pond on
ay four occasions. On 17-02-2018 the accused Mofidul called her to his

social Judge,)

) E Contd....
Bongaigaon’
ge

ane oujend Tears yl

oOpecial Judge,’
Ra VC Vey y
WU gaigaon’

 

(2)

house and when she went there the accused Jonab Ali rebuked Miss H,
caught hold of her by her hair, dragged her and pressed her breast. They
waited for the bichar, it did not took place for which there was delay in
lodging the FIR.

2. The FIR was registered as Manikpur PS Case No. 2018
U/S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012. The victim girl was medically examined
and her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C recorded. The accused was arrested

and produced before the Court on 13-04-2018, remanded to custody and
released on bail on 15-06-2018. On completion of investigation charge
sheet for offence w/s 4 of the POCSO Act was submitted against the
accused. After receipt of the summon the accused appeared and allowed
to remain on previous bail. Copies of the case were furnished to the
accused. Considering the materials on record charge u/s 4 of the POCSO

Act was framed against him, to which he pleaded not guilty.

a. In support of its contention prosecution examined 8

witnesses as follows

i) PW-1 Miss H Victim

ii) PW-2 Sumar Ali Informant

iii) PW-3 Firoja Khatun Wife of the informant

iv) PW-4 Msst. Mofida Khatun Sister-in-law of the
victim

v) PW-5 Subarto Bhanu Relative of the informant

vi) PW-6 Dr. Oli Roy Chakrabertty Medical Officer

vii) PW-7 Tilak Ch. Kalita Investigating Officer
viii) PW-8 Sri Surajit Das Judicial Magistrate First
Class

Contd....
Yo

“
oe

Bongaigaon’

Special Judge,"

(3)

4, Defence plea is of denial and that the victim girl interested
to marry him and came to his house to which he refused for which the
case was filed against him. The accused Mofidul Islam stated that he

subsequently married the victim girl.

* The charge sheet was submitted as against accused Mofidul
Islam only and the other accused named Jonab Ali in the FIR was not

sent up for trial for not finding materials against him.

Discussion Decision and Reasons Thereof

6. Let us start with FIR. The FIR is filed by PW-2 the cousin
of the victim and the FIR itself appears to be exaggerated and contrary in
as much as it is stated in the FIR (Ext-1) that the accused with promise to
marry PW-1 had illicitly and illegally against the wish of the victim girl
(PW-1) raped her. It is also mentioned that in the night of 15-02-2018
the accused had sexual intercourse with Pw-1 the whole night after
threatening her and prior to it also the accused had raped PW-1 on the

bank of the pond on four occasions.

7 If the accused has induced PW-1 to marty her and had
sexual intercourse with her then it was a consensual sex though it may
fall within the meaning of cheating or even rape. The allegation of threat
on the night of 15-02-2018 and then having sexual intercourse the whole
night also do not go side by side. PW-1 could have raised hue and cry
had the accused came there against her wish, threatened her and raped
her. She having kept silent the whole night it indicates she was a

consenting party if in fact such sexual intercourse had taken place.

8. It is also mentioned in the FIR that prior to the incident on

15-02-2018 the accused had sexual intercourse with PW-1 on the bank of

Contd....
ay

Bol IGalga@ory!
WII GIAO

   

(4)

pond on four occasions. If it is so then also it indicates the consensus of
PW-1 to such activity. There was no such threat or inducement to have

sexual intercourse on such a number of occasions.

a There is other allegation in the FIR (Ext-2) that on 17-02-
2018 the accused called PW-1 to his house and when she came there the
other accused named in the FIR i.e. Jonab Ali rebuked her, dragged her
by her hair and pressed her breast. This allegation also do not appear to
be a normal human activity. What for Jonab Ali will assault PW-1,
nothing is mentioned therein. If Jonab Ali had no objection regarding
PW-1 coming to the house of accused Mofidul Islam, at best he would
have rebuked her and sent her back. At the most he would have pushed
her or dragged her out of the house or the compound. IN such a situation
he would not have embraced or pressed her breast. The allegation as

such palpably appears to be exaggerated.

10. Now, coming to the evidence of victim PW-1, she deposed
that the incident is of four months back and since last two years she was
in love with the accused. The accused on the promise to marty her had
sexual intercourse with her on four occasions. On that night when she
was sleeping the accused came to her house and raped her and prior to it
on three occasions the accused had sexual intercourse with her on the
bank of the pond. After the incident in her house she went to the house
of the accused as told by him and at that time the father and one Jonab
Ali assaulted her. The accused refused to marry her. Jonab kicked her
on her chest and she became senseless. Next day there was a bichar in
the village but the accused did not turn up. Thereafter also a bichar was
held and the accused refused to marry her. Thereafter her brother lodged
the FIR.

Contd....
 

(5)

il. In her cross she stated that earlier she was at Delhi where
Mofidul the brother of the accused was also there. Safiqul was also at

Delhi. They worked together at Delhi. She denied that at Delhi she was
in love with one Johidul and regarding this matter there was a bichar at
Delhi. She denied that in that bichar Usman Ali, Jiaul Haque, Joinal Ali
and Safiqul Islam and the contractor was present and in that meeting she
was given Rs.45,000/- as compensation. She stated that from Delhi she
was in love with accused Mofidul. She denied of Rs.50,000/- from
accused Mofidul to withdraw the case. She did not shout when the
accused raped her in her house on that night. She also did not state
anyone about it. She do not know about her date of birth. From the
evidence of PW-1 it is clear that she was in love with accused and
whatever physical relationship (if any) took place between them it was
with her consent. She went to the house of the accused and she was
driven out from there and on the refusal of the accused to marry her this
case was filed. From the evidence of PW-1 there do not appear to be any
such false promises or inducement by the accused for PW-1 to give
consent to have sexual intercourse. From her evidence and facts and
circumstances of the case it appears that they were in love and for this

relation they entered into consensual sex.

12. The evidence of PW-2, the cousin of PW-1, also support
PW-1’s version of going to work at Delhi and having an affair with the
accused Mofidul. He also deposed of the physical relation ship between
PW-1 and the accused and that when PW-1 went to the house of the
accused Mofidul, he fled away from his house and his family members
assaulted PW-1 and sent her away. Ext-2 is the seizure list by which the
birth certificate of PW-1 was seized from PW-2. Material Ext-1 is the
said birth certificate and as per Material Ext-1 the age of PW-1 was 16

years 7/8 months.

Contd...
B

at

by ty )

“A

‘i + fy shee \
ie we what Lg hg

or

a

gaigaon,

(6)

13. PW-3 is the sister-in-law of the victim PW-1 and her
evidence is that PW-l had been to the house of the accused at which the
family members of the accused assaulted her and drove her away from
their house and in this regard a bichar was held. She also deposed that
she heard that the accused had sexual intercourse with PW-1 on 6/7
occasions. According to her, PW-1 was driven out twice from the house
of the accused. PW-4 is also the sister-in-law of PW-1 and her evidence
is also quite similar. PW-5 also deposed of love affair between PW-1
and the accused and that when PW-1 went to the house of the accused
she was assaulted there and at that time PW-2 went and brought PW-1
from the house of the accused. She heard later about the incident
between PW-1 and the accused having took place 2/3 times on the bank

of the pond.

14. PW-6 is the Doctor, who examined PW-1 and found no
injury on her private parts or any other part of the body. There was no
evidence of recent forceful sexual intercourse but old sexual intercourse
was present. According to radiological examination the age of PW-1 was

above 17 years and below 19 years.

15. PW.7 is the I/O who investigated the matter and submitted
the charge sheet (Ext-6) against the accused u/s 6 of the POCSO Act.
The above discussion of evidence shows that there was love affair
between PW-1 and the accused and at that time they had intimate
physical relationship and it was a consensual sex between them. The
allegation of threat and rape of PW-1 against her wish by the accused
does not appear to be true. When they were in relationship the accused
might have told her that he will marry her but subsequently did not keep
his words for which PW-1 on her own went to the house of the accused

to insist him to marry her and keep her in his house for which the family

Contd....
 

. lee
— a

(7)

member of the accused drove her out from their house. The evidence on
record do not speak of any false promise or inducement by the accused
to have sexual intercourse with PW-1. PW-1 has deposed of having
sexual intercourse by the accused on the bank of the pond on 3 /4
occasions. Such activities in an open place is not possible without the
consensus of both the parties. Whatever has taken place it was with due
consent of PW-1 and it appears that at that moment she was swayed by
the emotions. Subsequently, for some reason the accused did not marry
her for which, went on her own to enter the house of the accused. There

is no evidence that accused induced her by making false promises of

/ | marriage and compelled PW-1 to surrender to the lust of the accused.

16. The offence charged is u/s 4 of the POCSO Act and the
prosecution claimed that PW-1 was below 18 years of age at that time
and as such a minor and being a minor her consent is not a consent.
During investigation the I/O has seized the birth certificate of PW-1. The
birth certificate was issued on 16-06-2009 and the date of birth of PW-1
is shown as 19-06-2001. The birth certificate was obtained after 9 years
of the date of birth and on what basis the said certificate was issued is
not brought in evidence. The birth certificate is not proved by examining
the issuing authority. The parent of PW-1 are not witness in this case to
prove the date of birth of PW-1 or other fact. Being so the date of birth
of PW-1 is not proved rather the medical evidence speaks of her age to
be above 17 years and below 19 years at the time of incident. So it could

be above 18 years also. Being so the benefit goes to the accused.

17. Subsequently, the accused married PW-1 and have a two
months old baby boy, as stated by him during the time of recording his
statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C on 30-11-2019. Same confirmed by Ld. PP and

Contd....
or x?
. x s

(8)

defence counsel. The marriage took place after recording the evidence

of PW-1.

18. Summing up the above discussion, it is held that
prosecution has failed to bring home the charge of rape of PW-1 by the
accused against her wish and prosecution has also failed to prove that
PW-1 was a minor. Being so prosecution has failed to establish the
charge u/s 6 of the POCSO Act against the accused and as such the |
accused Mofidul Islam is acquitted of the charge 6 of the POCSO Act

and set at liberty forthwith.

19. Given under my hand and the seal of this Court on
the 21% day of December, 2019.

 

(Binod}} Kr Chef).
Special Judge),

Peoria on/
Bongaigaon.®

Dictated and corrected by me,
Wad)

(Binod. r Chetri)
Special, Judge, y
Bongaigaon:

Contd....
CD)

APPENDIX

 

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 -— Hasna Begum

PW 2 - Sumar Ali

PW 3 - Feruja Khatun

PW 4- Msstt. Mafida Khatun

PW 5 - Sabarto Bhanu

PW 6-— Dr. Oli Roy Chakravertty (M/O)
PW 7- Tilak Ch. Kalita (I/O)

PW 8 - Surajit Das (JMFC, Bongaigaon)

 

Defence Witness:
Nil.

 

Documents exhibited by Prosecution:
Ext.1 — Ejahar

Ext.2 — Seizure List Statement of the victim u/ 164 Cr.P.C
Ext.3 — Medical Examination Report of the victim

Ext.4 — Advice Slip of the victim

Ext.5 — Sketch Map

Ext.6 — Charge Sheet

Materials exhibited by Prosecution:
M.Ext.1 — Birth Certificate of victim

Defence Exhibit:
Nil

 

ear

gi
( Bindd Chetri )
Sessions Judge:
Bongaideor.’
