1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present

Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Special 03 of 2018 corresponding to GR
Case No.110/2018 & Dillai Police Station
Case No. 03/2018 Under Section 18 of
the POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Premchand Tamang

Name of informant/complainant:
Shri Jonga Thapa
S/o Sabilal Thapa
Village: Hatikajan
PS : Dillai
District: Karbi Anglong
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Premchand Tamang,
S/O Shri Maikel Tamang
Vill-Hatuka Kishan Basti
PS : Dillai
District: Karbi Anglong.

Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution: Mr D. Deka, Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Mr Shyamal Shil.
Argument heard on : 05.10.2018.
Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 10.10.2018.
2|Page

Li:

UDGMENT
It is a case of attempt to commit any offence
covered by the POCSO Act alleged to have been
committed by the accused, Shri Premchand
Tamang.
The prosecution case in brief is that on

05.02.2018 the informant, Shri Jonga Thapa lodged
an ejahar with Dillai Police Station stating inter alia
that on that day at about 4 PM taking the advantage
of absence of family members of his house enticed
away his daughter, Miss Sunita Thapa aged 10 years
to go to a nearby jungle and while trying to commit
“Asot Kam” (illegal physical contact) with her, she
raised hue and cry. Local people rescued her and
managed to apprehend’ the accused. Thereafter,
people gathered handed over the accused to the
Police Station. On receipt of the written ejahar, O/C,
Dillai Police Station registered a criminal case vides
Dillai Police Station Case No.03/2018 under section
8 of the POCSO Act and he himself took the charge
of investigation. On completion of the investigation,
submitted charge-sheet was under sections 376/511
of IPC R/W Sec.8 of the POCSO Act against the
accused person. Hence the prosecution case has

come up.

On completion of appearance of the accused
person before this Court, copy was furnished to him.
Having very carefully gone through submissions of
learned lawyers of both sides as well as case diary, |
found sufficient grounds for presuming that the
3|Page

accused person had committed the offence U/S 4 of
the POCSO Act read with section 18 of the Act and
accordingly, the charge was framed. The particular
of the charged offence was duly read over and
explained to the accused to which he pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many
as 10 ( ten) witnesses including the informant and
alleged victim. Accused person has been questioned
under section 313 of Cr.P.C. Defense examined
none. Plea of defence is of total denial.

Point for determination is:

Whether the accused person, Shri Premchand
Tamang on 05.02.2018 at about 4 PM at ViIII-
Salakathar in a nearby jungle under Dillai Police
Station attempted to commit penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim punishable under sections 4
of the POCSO Act ?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through the
submissions of learned lawyers of both sides as well
as evidence on record. In the very beginning,
learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the accused
has submitted that the prosecution has totally failed
to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubts. On
the other hand, refuting the aforesaid submission,
learned Public Prosecutor, Mr D.K. Deka _ has
submitted that prosecution has duly succeeded in
4|Page

establishing its case. Prior to forming an opinion on
the rival submissions made by the parties, | would
like to give a glance at evidence on record.

PW-1 is Shri Jonga Thapa who has deposed that
he is the informant of this case. The occurrence took
place on 5 Feb, 2018. Victim-Miss Sunita Thapa is
his niece. At the time of occurrence, she was 10
years old. Accused is his aunt’s son. The victim
informed him that accused took her to a jungle in
pretext of searching cows and she was made lying
on the ground by catching her hands and legs. The
accused tried to rape her. She raised hue and cry.
Nearby people rescued her and confined the
accused, Prem Chand Tamang in the house of
Sanjoy Kathar. Thereafter, he lodged the ejahar at
Dillai Police Station. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext.1(1)
is his signature. Later, police brought the victim to
Diphu Civil Hospital for medical examination.
Statement of the victim was recorded in the Court.

PW-2 is Shri Samuel Lugun who has deposed that
he knows the informant, accused and the victim.
The incident occurred on 05.02.2018. On the day of
occurrence, he was in his house and the villagers
informed him that accused, Premchand Tamang was
confined in the house of one Kathar by surname and
he met the victim in that house. She told him that
the accused brought her to a jungle on pretext of
searching cow at Salakatha Pathar. While he tried to
rape her, she raised hue and cry and hearing her
scream, nearby people came and apprehended the
accused person. They rescued her. At that time,
5|Page

Sunita Thapa was 10 years old. Later, Shri Jonga
Thapa lodged the ejahar at police station and police
arrested the accused at the place of occurrence.

PW-3 is Smti Maya Thapa who has disposed that
he knows the informant, victim and accused person.
Informant is her husband’s brother. The victim is her
daughter. The accused belongs to their village. The
incident occurred on 5 day(month not mentioned)
of this year. On the day of occurrence in the evening
hours, her daughter-Sunita went for searching cows.
At that time, she was absent at his house. On her
return to house, she did not find Sunita and on
being asked, two sisters of Sunita told that they
were not aware as to where Sunita went. At that
time, informant-Jonga Thapa and Gaonburah,
Samuel Lagun brought the victim to her house. On
her interrogation, the victim told that while she was
going to bring their cows, the accused pulled her to
a jungle and tried to rape her. She raised hue and
cry. Nearby people and one Sanjoy Kathar rescued
her from the clutches of the accused. Thereafter,
Jonga Thapa lodged an ejahar at Dillai Police
Station. Police sent the victim to Diphu Civil Hospital
for medical examination. At the time of occurrence,
the victim was 10 years old.

PW-4 is Smti. Rejina Lagun who knows the
informant, victim and accused person. The incident
took place on 5" day of this year. She forgot the
month of the occurrence. She herself did not see the
occurrence. As informed by one Sanjoy Kathar, the
accused pulled the victim to a jungle and when he
tried to commit “Beya Kam” (illegal physical contact)
6|Page

she screamed and hearing her scream, Sanjoy
Kathar went inside the jungle and rescued her from
the clutches of the accused. The village people
assembled there and they apprehended the accused
person. At the time of occurrence, victim attained
the age of 10 years.

PW-5 is Shri Sanjoy Kathar who is one of the
most vital witnesses in this case. He has deposed in
his evidence that he knows the informant, accused
and the victim. The incident occurred on 5.02.2018
at about 3-30 PM. On the day of occurrence, he
went to attend a marriage party and on his return
along with his wife and one another woman, he
heard crying of a girl from the direction of jungle of
Karbi Cremation Ground. Hearing her weeping, he
went inside the jungle and started searching as to
who was weeping. At that time, a minor girl came
running towards him and catching his foots insisted
him to save her. On being asked, she told that a
person whom she called “Keka” brought him to the
jungle. Then he took the girl to the road and then
the girl again told that said Keka wanted to do
“Beya Kam’( illegal physical contact) with her, but
as she raised hue and cry he could not do it. At that
time, a person by name Premchand Tamang came
out of the jungle taking a dao on his hand and asked
him to hand over the girl to him (Premchand). Then
the victim girl pointed out that this person tried to
commit “Beya Kam” and then he (PW-5) came to
know that Premchand Tamang brought the girl for
the purpose of doing “Beya Kam”. Thereafter, he
told the girl to go to her house, but she in fear did
not want to go to her house. In such a situation, he
7|Page

sent his brother, Kenchand Kathar to inform the
matter to her house and to the Gaonburah. At about
7-30 PM, the grandfather of the victim and
Gaonburah came to him and he handed over the girl
to them. Then the informant, Jonga Thapa lodged an
ejahar at Dillai Police Station. While the accused
came out of the jungle, they confined him and
handed him over to Gaonburah along’ with
Gaonburah.

PW-6 is Shri Lukas Kandula deposed that
he knows the informant, accused and the victim.
The incident took place 05.02.2018. On the day of
occurrence, he was in the house of the Gaonburah.
While the fact of the occurrence was reported to
Gaonburah, he could learn the same. Gaonburah
went to the place of occurrence. At 10 PM the
Gaonburah arrived at his house along with family
members of the victim. Then the Gaonbura
informed him that the accused has already been
handed over to police. On being asked as to what
happened, the victim told that the accused took her
to jungle and tried to rape her. As she made hue
and cry, the accused fled away. At the time of
occurrence, victim was 10 years old. Thereafter,

victim and her family members went to their house.

PW-7 is Shri Megharaj Thapa who has
testified that informant is his brother. He knows the
accused. Victim is his daughter. The incident
occurred on 05.10.2018. At the time of occurrence,
he went towards the hill for doing labour work. After
six days of the occurrence, he came to know about
8|Page

the occurrence and rushed to his house. On asking,
the victim informed him that on the day of
occurrence, the accused forcefully took her to a
nearby jungle and forcefully tried to commit rape on
her. Then she started weeping and hearing her
weeping, Shri Sanjoy Kathar, who was going along
the road by the side of the jungle, rescued her.
Later, he came to know from the Gaonburah that
the police arrested the accused person.

PW-8 is Miss Sunita Thapa is the alleged
victim of this case. She testified in her deposition
that she knows the accused, Shri Premchand Tamag.
Accused belongs to their village and he is their
neighbour. On the day of occurrence at about 3 PM,
the accused came to their house and he proposed
her to go out, but she refused to his proposal. At
that time, her grandmother was alone at the house.
On being shown intimidation, she went with the
accused person. He took her to a jungle which is 3
KM away from her house. She went there on foot. In
the jungle he wanted to assault by a dao and then
the accused by holding her hands __ tried to lay her
down on the ground. Then she started crying and at
that time, one Sanjoy Kathar arrived there. Seeing
him, the accused fled away towards the jungle.
Sanjoy Kathar took her to his house. Thereafter, she
along with Gaonbura came to her house. Doctor
examined her. Police got her statement recorded in
the Court. Ext.2 is her statement and Ext.2(1) and
2(2) are her signatures.
9|Page

15. PW-9 is Dr Karik Kropi who has deposed in
her evidence that on 05.02.2018 while she was
working as SDMO at Diphu Civil Hospital, on that
day she examined Smti. Sunita Thapa aged 9 years
in connection with Dillai PS Case No.03/2018. On her
examination, she found no marks of injury on her
body. She did not find mark of injury on the genital
part of the victim. She did not examine vaginal part
as there was no sign of sexual intercourse. As per X-
ray report, age of the victim girl is below 18 years,
around 8-9 years. Ext.2 is the medical report and
Ext.2(1) is her signature.

16. PW-10 is Shri Haren Hazarika who is the
lO. of this case. His evidence shows he
investigated the case from beginning to ending.
During his investigation, he drew the sketch map,
arrested the accused person and forwarded him to
Court. He sent the victim to Diphu Civil Hospital for
medical examination and brought her to the Court
for recording her statement in the Court. Later he
collected the medical report. He seized the birth
certificate of the victim. Ext.1 is ejahar and Ext.1(2)
is his signature. Ext.4 is the sketch map and Ext.4(1)
is his signature. He also seized one document
proving date of birth of vide Ext-5 and Ext-5(1) is his
signature. On completion of the investigation, he
submitted the charge-sheet U/S 376/511 of IPC and
Sec.8 of the POCSO Act. Ext.6 is the charge-sheet
and Ex.6(1) is his signature.

17. First of all | would like to start discussion
regarding age of the victim. Punishable provisions of
10|Page

the POCSO Act will be attracted if the victim is
below 18 years. Ext-1 is the FIR which was lodged
by the paternal uncle of the victim where in he has
stated that at the time of occurrence the victim was
10 years old. PW-2 is the co-villager of the informant
who has stated in his evidence that at the time of
the occurrence the victim was 10 years old. PW-9 is
the medical officer who examined the victim has
stated in evidence that on examination of the
victim, he found her to be around 8/9 years old. The
defence has not disputed the medical evidence and
Ext-3 which were related to age of victim when the
occurrence took place. Ext-5 is the seizure list by
which a Student’s Profile in the name of Sanita
Thapa was seized. It appears from the said sized
Profile that at the time of occurrence the victim did
not complete 10 years. PW-3 is the mother of the
victim who has stated in her evidence that at the
time of occurrence the victim was 10 years old.
From the discussion it reveals that there is
corroborated evidence on record showing that at the
time of occurrence the victim was 13 years old.
Accordingly | am convinced to hold that at the time
of occurrence the victim was child as defined under
section 2(d) of the POCSO Act.

PW-8 is the victim whose evidence shows
that the accused to her to a jungle which is about 3
KM away from the house forcibly on foot. The
defence has not disputed the fact that the accused
took away the victim from their house. There is no
evidence brought by the defence showing that the
victim was taken by the accused with permission
her legal guardian.
11|Page

19. The victim has stated in her evidence that
taking to the jungle the accused intended to fell her
down on the ground by holding her hands. While she
started crying, one Sanjoy Kathar came there.
Seeing Sanjoy Kathar, the accused fled away. PW-5
has stated in his evidence that while on the day of
occurrence at 3-30 PM he was coming home back
with his wife and another lady after attending
marriage party, he heard crying of a girl in the
jungle near cremation ground. Thereafter while he
was proceeding towards the jungle, a girl came to
him running and by touching his feet she requested
him to rescue her. On being asked, she told him that
she was taken here by a person of their village
whom she called “Keka”. She further informed her
that the accused tried to do foul work with her, he
failed to do so as she raised hue and cry. As the
victim declined to go to their house, he sent his
elder brother to inform Gaonbura and _ family
members of the victim. On the same day at 7-30
PM the Gaonbura and grandfather came to his
house. He handed over the victim to them. The
accused was also apprehended while he came from
the jungle by the villagers. The accused was also
handed to the Gaonbura.

20. PW-6 is a person who saw Gaonbura along
with victim family coming to his house back at 10
PM. He has further stated that the Gaonbura told
him that he already had handed the accused police.
PW-7 is the mother of the victim who has stated in
her evidence that the accused took her to the jungle
forcibly and that he tried to rape her. PW-4 is the
hearsay witness. She was informed by Sanjoy Kath
that he rescued the accused. PW-7 is the father of
12|Page

the victim girl who on the following day came to the
house and on being asked the victim told him that
the accused tried to rape her forcibly. She has also
informed him that one Sanjay Kathar rescued her
and took her to his house.

Ext-2 is the statement of the victim girl
recorded under section 164 of the CrPC which
reveals that the accused is their neighbourer and
that he took her with him while he went out in
search of house. It also appears that while she and
accused person were inside the Jungle the accused
person felled her on the ground by holding of her
legs and hands. She raised “hulla” saying “maa
maa”. It also shows that one Karbi People rescued
the victim and took her to his house. PW-10 is the
investigating officer whose evidence shows that
while he visited the PO he found the accused person
being kept in the house of the victim after
apprehending by the local people.

From the discussions made above it reveals
clearly that there is a doubt that the accused made
any attempt to do penetrative sexual assault
towards the victim child. However the prosecution
has succeeded in establishing its case under section
363 IPC.

ORDER
In the result | find the accused person
guilty under section 363 IPC and accordingly he is
convicted.

On the point of sentence the accused
person is heard and to that effect his statement is
recorded. It appears from statement of the accused
13|Page

person he is the only earning member of his family
consisting of 5 members. He has also prayed for
leniency in sentencing him. It has been submitted
by the learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the
accused person that it is a fit case where the
accused needs to be punished leniently. The learned
public prosecutor has conceded the _ aforesaid
submissions made by the learned defence counsel
above. There is no evidence on record showing that
the accused person was earlier convicted by the
court of law. Taking nature of the case as well as
financial condition of the accused person | find
substance in the submission of the learned lawyer
appearing on behalf of the accused person.

25. Taking all aspects into consideration | do

hereby order the accused person to suffer RI of 6
months. Set off his earlier detention period. Let a
certified copy of the Judgment be supplied to the
accused person at free of cost. Let the seized
articles be sent to the informant back. Accordingly
this cased is disposed of on contest.

26. Given under my hand and seal of the Court

on this 10" October, 2018 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS )
Special Judge Special Judge
14|Page
