 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 68 (T) of 2017

U/s 4 of the POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM —___haacaeesacseeceeeeeesenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Rajesh Karmakar @ Pusu
S/o- Lt. Chutu Karmakar
R/o- Ambikagiri Rai Choudhury Path,
Neogchuk, Hijuguri
P.S- Tinsukia
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM kee eeeeeeeeeee tees eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor ..............4. For the State
Shreeram Prasad,
Advocate —__hinecacecucveueeeaees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 11/06/2019

Date of Judgment: 25/06/2019

} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. In the morning of 27/10/2017, the 9 years old daughter
of the informant had gone out of her house to collect flowers
from the neighbourhood. When she was collecting flowers, an
unknown person appeared there and caught hold of her by her
hands and forcibly took her to the nearby paddy field. The said
person had removed the long pant of the victim and thereafter
inserted his finger into her vagina. The victim girl shouted for
help, but no one came forward. Thereafter, the said unknown
person left the place and the victim girl immediately put on
her pants and ran towards home.

2. On seeing the condition of the girl, her father had taken
her to a Doctor at Tinsukia. The girl was referred to Dr.
Giridhari Bayan of Holy Child Clinic & Hospital at Dibrugarh. Dr.
Giridhari Bayan found that there were signs penetration in her
vagina, as because there was a small cut in her labia minora
and it was oozing with blood. Dr. Bayan also opined that there

were some signs of penetration of a male penis.
3. The father of the victim girl did not lodge any ejahar
immediately after the occurrence as because he feared that
the future of his daughter would be at stake if the matter is
made public.

4. After about fifteen days, on 12/11/2017, the victim
along with her father was having a morning walk in their
locality. At that time, the accused was also traveling on the
same road. The victim girl identified the accused and informed
her father that he was the person, who had inserted his finger
into her vagina on 27/10/2017. The father of the victim girl
nabbed the accused and handed him over to police at Hijuguri
Outpost. Police at Hijuguri Outpost made a G.D. entry vide
G.D. Entry No. 238 dated 12/11/2017. Police immediately sent
the victim to the Tinsukia Civil Hospital for medical

examination.

5. Dr. Nicky Shah of Tinsukia Civil Hospital examined the
victim at about 12.05 pm that day. Dr. Nicky Shah did not find
any significant matters at the time of examination. However,
Dr. Shah had her radiological examination and at that time, it
was ascertained that the victim was about 8 to 10 years old.
Dr. Shah also did not find any signs of sexual assault, except

for vaginal tenderness.

6. On conclusion of investigation, police filed the charge
sheet against the accused.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

7. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

8. In order to prove the case against the accused, the
prosecution side has examined as many as eleven witnesses,
including the Police Investigating Officer Paragjyoti Buragohain
and Dr. Nicky Shah and Dr. Giridhari Bayan. The defence plea
is total denial. | have carefully gone through the prosecution

evidences.

9. Here in this case, Dr. Giridhari Bayan has stated during
his cross examination that he found one cut mark in the labia
minora of the victim girl and it was due to itching of the
vaginal canal. Dr. Bayan has stated that the injury sustained
by the victim girl cannot be sustained, if the victim falls on a
hard substance or if the victim had the habit of riding bicycle.
Dr. Bayan had examined the victim girl on 28/10/2017.

10. Dr. Nicky Shah examined the victim girl after about 14
days and she found that there was vaginal tenderness. Dr.
Nicky Shah has stated before the defence counsel that such
tenderness might also be caused because of itching.

11. After going through the evidences of Dr. Giridhari
Bayan and Dr. Nicky Shah, | find that the victim had sustained
injuries on her vagina. Dr. Giridhari Bayan stated in his
evidence that the cut mark, which he found in the labia
minora of the victim was due to stretching of the vaginal
canal. The evidences of these two Doctors do not have any
contradictions and diScrepancies. Therefore, it is proved
beyond doubt that the victim sustained injuries in her vagina
on the day of occurrence.
12. Now, the most pertinent question that arises is as to
whether the present accused had caused the injuries to the

victim girl?

13. The father of the victim girl has stated that while he
was having a morning walk with his minor daughter, the victim
had seen the accused on the road. The father of the victim girl
has stated that his daughter identified the accused to be the
person, who had inserted his finger into her vagina on the day
of occurrence. The father of the victim girl has stated that at
that point of time, he did not know the name of the accused,
but another pedestrian told him that he was a mason. The
father of the victim has stated that an unknown person
showed him the house of the accused. The father of the victim
has further stated that he apprehended the accused from his
house and handed him over to police.

14. The victim girl has stated in her evidence that at the
time of occurrence, she was collecting flowers and suddenly,
an unknown person appeared before her and forcibly took her
to a paddy field. According to the victim girl, the accused
pulled down her pants and thereafter inserted his finger into
her vagina. The victim girl further stated that she shouted for
help, but no one came forward. According to the victim girl,
after some days of the occurrence, when she was having a
morning walk with her father, she had seen the accused on
the road. The victim girl has disclosed that on seeing them,
the accused tried to run away, but her father apprehended
him.

15. The witness Sankar Jyoti Borgohain knew the accused
Rajesh Karmakar @ Pusu. He has stated in his evidence that
the occurrence of this case took place on the day of Chhat
Puja and at about 7 am that day, Puspa Deori called his
mother over phone and asked her as to whether there was an
incident of rape near a School. Sankar Jyoti Borgohain has
stated that his mother did not have the knowledge about that
fact. Therefore, his mother called some other persons of the
locality to Know about such incident. The witness ha stated
that all of them told his mother about their ignorance on the

issue.

16. Sankar Jyoti Borohain has stated that after about 15
days, while he was returning home, he saw that some women
were questioning the accused near the school. According to
Sankar Jyoti Borgohain, in his presence, the accuse had
admitted before the women that he had inserted his finger
into the vagina of the victim girl.

17. Now, | shall take up the evidence of Smti Puspa Deori.
She has stated in her evidence that one day at about 5 am, on
the day of chhat puja, she had seen that a small girl was
running away from the paddy field and was going towards
Monideep School. Puspa Deori has stated that after about 15/
20 minutes, the said girl returned with her father. She has
stated that she asked the victim as to what had happened and
then the victim girl told her that she was subjected to sexual
assault by one person.

18. The witness Smti Uma Tamang is the mother of the
victim girl. She has stated in her evidence that on the day of
occurrence, at about 5.30 am, her daughter had gone out of
the house to collect flowers from the neighborhood and within
half an hour, she returned home. The mother of the victim girl
has stated that she noticed that the wearing apparels of her
daughter was mud stained and her chappals were also
missing. The mother of the victim has stated that when she
inquired about it, she told her that one unknown person had
forcibly taken her to a paddy field and there, he inserted his
finger into her vagina, after removing her pants. According to
the mother of the victim, she wanted to give bath to her
daughter and at that time, she noticed that the victim was
bleeding from her vagina. The mother of the victim has stated
that her daughter was immediately taken to a Doctor at
Tinsukia, but this Doctor referred her to another Doctor at
Dibrugarh.

19. The witness Chandra Kumar Tamang is the maternal
uncle of the victim girl. He used to reside in the house of the
mother of the victim girl. According to Chandra Kr. Tamang, he
noticed that on the day of occurrence, his niece had returned
home with stained cloth and without her chappals. From the
victim girl, he came to know about the occurrence and along
with the father of the victim, he searched the locality for the
actual culprit, but could not find him. According to Chandra Kr.
Tamang, the accused admitted his guilt, after he was
apprehended by the father of the victim girl.

20. The witness Chandan Das is a friend of the witness
Sankar Jyoti Borgohain and from him, he came to know about
the fact that the accused was apprehended by some people
on a charge that he had committed rape upon a minor girl.
Chandan Das has stated that he immediately came to the
place, where the accused was kept detained by people. He has
stated that in his presence, the accused had admitted that he
had committed the offence upon the victim.

21. The witness Pranjal Tamang is another maternal uncle
of the victim girl. He came to know about the occurrence after
the father of the victim informed him about it over phone. The
witness Pranjal Tamang had come to the house of the victim,
after the accused was apprehended and in his presence,
police seized the birth certificate of the victim girl.

22. The Police Investigating Officer Paragjyoti Buragohain
spoke about the investigation of the case.

23. All the prosecution witnesses have been extensively
cross examined by the defence counsel. At the time of cross
examination of the victim girl, the defence side suggested that
she had erroneously identified the accused to be the actual
culprit.

24. There is no doubt that the victim was about 9 years old,
at the time of occurrence. A child of that age already develops
her senses. The accused failed to produce evidence to prove
that the victim had erroneously identified the accused. There
is nothing material in the cross examinations of Raju Tamang,
Uma Tamang, Chandra Kr. Tamang, Chandan Dsa, Puspa Deori
and Pranjal Tamang. Therefore | would restrain myself from
discussing it elaborately.

25. During cross examination, the witness Sankar Jyoti
Borgohain stated before the defence counsel that the accused
once studied with him in the Primary School and therefore, he
knew the accused and his family. Sankar Jyoti Borgohain
further stated before the defence counsel that the accused
had admitted before him that he had committed the offence

upon the victim.

26. On the question as to why the ejahar was not filed on
27/10/2017, | shall rely upon a decision of the Supreme Court
in Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State of Gujarat
(AIR 1983 SC 753). In this case considering the
unsophisticated society where a girl or woman in the tradition
bound non-permissive society of India would be extremely
reluctant even to admit that any incident which is likely to
reflect on her chastity had ever occurred, as she would be
conscious of the danger of being ostracized by the society or
being looked down by the society including by her own family
members, relatives, friends and neighbours, held that she
would feel extremely embarrassed in relating the incident to
others being overpowered by a feeling of shame on account of
the upbringing in a tradition bound society where by and large
sex is a taboo. Their Lordships held:-

“The parents of an unmarried girl as also the husband and
members of the husband's family of a married woman, would
also more often than not, want to avoid publicity on account of
the fear of social stigma on the family name and family
honour. The fear of the victim herself being considered to be
promiscuous or in some way responsible for the incident
regardless of her innocence. So also a rustic woman will not be
disclosing the incident which would affect the name and
honour of the family to a doctor when the prosecutrix is being
examined. It is in such circumstances, the failure to disclose
the factum of rape as such, in Ext.P2 wound certificate is to be
appreciated.”

27. The witness Sankar Jyoti Borgohain has stated in his
cross examination that the accused had admitted before him
that he had committed the offence upon the victim on the day
of occurrence. The Supreme Court in S. Arul Raja v. State of
Tamilnadu (para 55) reported in (2010) 8 SCC 233 ruled thus
10

"55. xxxxx Before the court proceeds to act on the basis of an
extra-judicial confession, the circumstances under which it is
made, the manner in which it is made and the persons to
whom it is made must be considered along with the two rules
of caution: first, whether the evidence of confession is reliable

and second, whether it finds corroboration.

28. Dr. Giridhari Bayan, who examined the victim on the
next day of the day of occurrence, found that the victim
sustained cut injury in the labia minora because of stretching
of the vaginal canal of the victim girl. Dr. Bayan has stated
that such an injury cannot be sustained by any other means.

29. So, at this stage, | have no hesitation to hold that the
evidence of the victim girl has inspired confidence. There is
nothing in the record that the accused had made a false
confession. The medical evidence has corroborated the
evidence of the victim girl and the evidence of Sankar Jyoti
Borgohain. There is nothing in his evidence to hold that this
witness has deposed false evidence. Therefore, | find myself
foreclosed against all options, but to hold that the offence
against the accused Rajesh Karmakar @ Pusu is proved
beyond all reasonable doubt.

ORDER

30. In the result, the accused Rajesh Karmakar @ Pusu is
found guilty and accordingly the accused is convicted u/s 4 of
the POCSO Act.

SENTENCE

31. The convict is a pedophile. People like him are
dangerous to the society. Children are vulnerable to sexual
11

assault and when a pedophile like the convict who roams
freely in our society is nothing but a menace to our society.
There are no mitigating circumstances in favour of the convict.

Therefore, the convict must be adequately punished.

32. | have heard the convict in the matter of sentence. The
convict claimed to be a mason by profession. He has his
mother, wife and three children. The convict has admitted that
he had committed the offence upon the victim and prayed for

leniency.

33. Considering the circumstances of the case, the convict
is sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment of 10 (Ten)
Years. He is also sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 50,000/-
(Rupees Fifty Thousand Only) and in default of payment of the
fine, the convict shall undergo another period of imprisonment
for 6 (Six) months. The fine amount if paid, shall be given to
the victim girl. | hope, this much of sentence would be
sufficient to reach the ends of justice.

COMPENSATION

34. Law has mandated that victim of a crime must be
compensated in monetary terms. In the case before me, the
victim girl now stays in a hostel. Because of the incident, her
parents found it unsafe to keep the girl in their house,
therefore, she was sent to a hostel.

35. The victim has gone through a traumatic phase because
of the act committed upon her by the convict. Therefore, she
must be properly rehabilitated. Therefore, the State of Assam
is directed to pay a sum of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty
Thousand Only) to the victim girl as compensation. The money
Shall be disbursed by the District Legal Service Authority,
12

Tinsukia. The victim is a minor, so the money may be given to

her father Raju Tamang.

36. A free copy of the judgment be given to the convict
immediately. Another copy of the judgment shall be forwarded
to the Ld. Deputy Commissioner, Tinsukia, under the the
provision of section 365 of the Cr.PC. A copy of the judgment
Shall also be forwarded to the District Legal Service Authority,

Tinsukia.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
25th day of June, 2019.

(P. J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
13

A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

0,

PW1

. PW2

PW3

Pw4

. PW5

PW6

PW7

. PW8

PW9

10.PW10 -

11.PW11-

Dr. Giridhari Bayan

Sri Raju Tamang

Smti Muskan Tamang

Sri Sankar Jyoti Borgohain
Smti Uma Tamang

Sri Chandra Kumar Tamang
Sri Chandan Das

Smti Puspa Deori

Sri Pranjal Tamang

Dr. Nicky Shah

Sri Paragjyoti Buragohain, S.I.

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

Ext.1-

Ext.

Ext.

Ext.

Ext.

Ext.

Ext.

Letter

Report

Seizure list

Original birth certificate

Ejahar

Statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.PC

Medical report
8. Ext. 8 -
9. Ext. 9 -
10. Ext. 10-

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Extract copy of G.E. Entry
Sketch map

Charge sheet

Special Judge

Tinsukia

14
