IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SPECIAL JUDGE...... BIINI.

Present: N.U. Ahmed,
Additional Special Judge,
Bijni.

SPECIAL (P) CASE NO. 40 (B)/2018
(Under section 376 of the IPC, R/W Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.)

. A THE STATE OF ASSAM
(3 e.\ VS -

fu | Md. Mominul Hussain @ Moinul Hoque —............ Accused. .
\G

APPEARANCE :

Advocate for the prosecution : Mr. P Dev Ray, Ld. Addl. P.P.

Advocate for the defence : Mr. Giash Uddin Ahmed,

Mr. S. Sarkar, learned Advocates.

Date of framing charge : 09-11-2018

Date of evidence : 04-12-18, 14-12-18, 05-01-19, 22-02-19 & 06-03-19.

Date of Argument : 03-05-2019.

Date of Judgment : 17-05-2019.

JUDGMENT

 

\ get The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 09-04-18, one Jabeda Khatun lodged an F.LR.
oP” wal
pas Be with the O/C, Bijni P.S. alleging inter alia that her 15 years old daughter 'X' (name withheld

La
 

2

herein after known as victim 'X') had love affair with the accused Moinul Hoque for last one year
and about three months ago accused with a promise to marry “X” committed penetrative sexual
assault in the house of maternal uncle of “X” namely Abdul Malek of village- Dhakhin Kajdhaha
against her will. Victim “X” was not informed the said fact due to fear. Thereafter, the accused
person on several occasion on different places committed penetrative sexual assault on victim
V “xX”, On 03-03-2018 victim went to Religious meeting at Bagmara Madrass and at night at about
10 PM she came out from the meeting to discharge her nature call. Then accused by forced took
the victim “X” on the western side and took her on the North of the road in a lonely place and
by forced, while he was committing penetrative sexual assault on her, she raised hue and cry
and local people caught hold the accused and confined him in house of brother-in-law of “X”
namely Jiaru! Islam. Thereafter, guardian of the accused came there and gave an assurance to
settle the matter socially and took the accused therefrom. But the matter was not settled. In the
FIR it is further stated that she was waited for social settlement and for this reason there was

delay. in lodging the FIR. Hence, the present case.

, \ 2// On receipt of the FIR, O/C Bijni P. S. registered the same as Bijni BS Case No. 93/18,

nee

- %
sift a tol fie sence
\

, “under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (herein after known
as POCSO Act) and started investigation. During investigation I. O. visited the place of
occurrence, recorded the statement of witnesses, medically examined the victim girl and
collected report, got her statement recorded under section 164 of the Cr. P. C. and after
completion of investigation 1.0. submitted charge sheet against the accused Md. Mominul
Hussain @ Md. Moinul Hoque under section 376 of the IPC, R/W Section 6 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (herein after known as POCSO Act).

3. After receiving the charge sheet, cognizance was taken u/s, 376 of the IPC ,R/W Section
6 of the POCSO Act, 2012, against the accused Md. Mominul Hussain @ Moinul Hoque and
started a Special(P) case. Copies of the relevant documents was furnished to the accused person
as per provision of section 207 of the Cr. P. C. After hearing both the sides learned Advocate and
on perusal of case record charge was framed u/s 376 of the IPC, R/W Section 6 of the POCSO
Act, 2012 and the contents of charge was read over and explained to the accused person to

which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

  
 

Or
A. ge During trial prosecution side examined as many as eight witnesses including informant
a”

an “S* “and victim. Accused was examined u/s 313 of Cr. P. C and recorded his statement in separate
. ¥

.@

ad aio 8.” sheets attached to the case record. The defence case was of complete denial and the defence
side has not adduced any defence evidence.

5. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocates of both sides. I have gone

through the case record as well as evidence on record.

POINT FOT DETERMINATION

6. (i) What was the age of victim “X” at the time of occurrence?
(ii) Whether the accused Md. Mominul Hussain @ Md. Moinul on 03-03-2018 at about
10.00 pm at village-Baghmara, under Bijni committed rape on victim “X” and also
committed rape on her at Dhakhin Kajdaha and different places on several
occasion against her will?
(iii) | Whether the accused on 03-03-18 at night at Bagmara under Bijni P. S. and on
/, >| different dates on several occasion committed penetrative sexual assault on victim

\ O| el “x” who is a minor girl below 16 years of age? .
\ Lis co j

-DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

i To bring home the charge the prosecution examined eight(8) witnesses including the

informant and victim. Let me scrutinize the evidence on record to decide the point.

8. Learned Addl. P. P. submitted that at the time of occurrence the age of the victim “X” was
15 years and as such she was child as per provision of section 2(d) of the POCSO Act, 2012 and
the accused person committed penetrative sexual assault on her and this fact proved by the
prosecution beyond all reasonable doubt and this is fit case for conviction of the accused under
section 6 of the POCSO Act.

9. On the contrary, learned Advocate for the accused submitted that the prosecution to
prove the age of the victim “X” exhibited one school certificate but the prosecution failed to prove
the school certificate as per provision of law and as such the school certificate is not admissible
C\in eyydence. Learned advocate further submitted that the radiologist opined as regard as of the
wictim gir! above 17 years but below 19 years. Learned advocate further submitted that the

“thedical evidence regarding age is not conclusive and it may vary two years on either side and if

 
 

 

4

two years added from lower side then the age of the victim girl was 19 years at the time of
occurrence. Learned advocate also submitted that the prosecution failed to prove that the victim

girl was child at the time of occurrence and as such the POCSO Act is not applicable in this case.

10. I have dully considered the submission of both the sides learned advocate. This is a case
relating to offence under the POCSO Act. Age of the victim girl is prime consideration to determine

the offence under POCSO Act. Hence, point No.6(i) is taken first for discussion and decision.

11. Ongoing through the evidence on record it reveals that PW1 informant in her evidence
stated that at present age of her daughter is 15 years. PW1 proved the school certificate of the
victim girl as exhibit-3. From the evidence of PW1 it reveals that the victim “X” has no birth
certificate. PW1 in her evidence has not stated the date of birth of her daughter. So, it appears
that he stated the age of victim girl on the basis of school certificate. The defence counsel
submitted that the school certificate is not proved as per provision of law and as such the same
is not admissible in evidence. So, we should see whether exhibit-3 is proved as per provision of

law or ‘ot. t

i 42. Regarding admissibility of admission register and school certificate Hon’ble Supreme Court

in a decision reported in AIR 2004 SC 230, Sushil Kumar Vs Rakesh Kumar has held as follows:
"33. Under section 35 of the Indian Evidence Act, a register maintain in terms of a statute
or by a statutory authority in regular course of business would be relevant fact. Had such a vital
evidence been produced, it would have clinched the issue. The respondent did not choose to do
SO.
34. In the aforementioned backdrop the evidence brought on record are required to be

considered. The admission registered or a Transfer certificate issued by a primary school

do not satisfy the requirement of section 35 of the Evidence Act. There is no reliable evidence on

record to show that the date of birth was recorded in the school register on the basis of the statement

of any responsible person.”

13. Hon’ble Supreme Court in another judgment reported in AIR 1988 SC 1796, Birad Mal Singhvi Vs

Anand Purohit has held that- to render a document admissible under section 35 of the Evidence Act,

three condition must be satisfied —firstly, the entry that is relied on must be done in public or other

official work, register or record, secondly, it must be an entry stating the fact in issue or relevant fact

_ and thirdly, it must be made by any public servant in discharge of his official duty or any other person

in performance of a duty specially enjoyed by the law. An entry relating to the date of birth made in
-

)

  

fe school register is relevant and admissible under section 35 of the Act, but the entry regarding age
of a person in school register is not of much evidentiary value to prove the age of the person in

absence of material on which the age was recorded.

14. The victim girl's first attended school is Kasdaha Dhakhinpara L.P. School. From the evidence of
PW1, it reveals that at the time of admission of PW1, she has not filed any application. or birth
certificate of the “X”. Exhibit-3, issued by Head Master Kasdaha Dhakhinpar L. P. School. The
prosecution neither called for the school admission registered nor examined Head Master Kasdaha
Dhakhinpara L. P. School to prove the exhibit-3. The issuing authority of exhibit-3 was not examined.
It is settled law that mere marking a document as exhibit does not dispensed with to prove the
genuineness of the document. There is no birth certificate of the victim girl. So, the prosecution should
prove on what basis the date of birth of PW2 has been written in the exhibit-3. Considering all aspect

I find that the exhibit-3 is not dully proved and the same is not admissible in evidence.

15. So, the next we should see whether the medical evidence of victim as regard to her age is
reliable’ oF not. During investigation the Investigating Officer examined the victim “x” *by a doctor. It is
eB settled Yaw that medical evidence is not conclusive evidence to determine the age and there is
possibility of marginal error of 2(two) years on either side. PW5 Dr. Mina Hazarika in her evidence
stated that from physical examination the age of the victim “X” is seems to be above 17 years and
below 19 years. She proved the medical report as exhibit-4. Ongoing through exhibit-4 it reveals that
she opined that as per radiological examination the age of the victim girl is above 17 years and below
19 years. Regarding medical evidence to ascertain the age of victim girl our Hon’ble Gauhati High
Court in a judgment reported in 2007 Cri LJ 1615, Md. Jakir Hussain Vs The State of Assam has held

as follows:-

“7. In the opinion of the doctor (PW 4), age of the girl (AB) was above 18 years

with 20 weeks of single viable intra-uterine pregnancy.

8. The evidence given by PW 1 has remained completely unchallenged by the
prosecution as well as the defence and his evidence clearly shows that according to the
radiological examination of AB, her age was above 18 years at the time, when she was
medically examined. Though the medical opinion with regard to age may vary by two years
on either side, the fact remains that when the evidence could have been adduced, but has not
been adduced by the prosecution by producing necessary materials from the school, where

. AB had studied, to show her age, the medical evidence on record, which goes in favour of the
Q accused, cannot be ignored. Situated thus, one has no option, but to proceed on the premises
a that AB was above 18 years of age at the time, when she allegedly had sexual intercourse

te
i:

,
 

with the accused.”

16. It is also settled law that if there is 2(two) sets of evidence and one goes in favour of
accused and another goes in favour of the prosecution then the evidence which goes in favour
of the accused should be considered. From the evidence of PW5, it reveals that at the time of
occurrence, the age of victim girl was above 17 years and below 19 years. The’ medical evidence
as regard age may vary 2(two) years on either side. So, if we see on upper side of the age of
the victim girl then her age was 19 years by adding 2(two) years on upper side from lower side.
As there is no other reliable evidence as regard age of the victim girl, so, there is no other option
then to rely on the medical evidence. Therefore, I am compelled to hold that at the time of

occurrence the age of the victim girl was above 18 years.

° “~~ 17°. To attract the provision of offence under the POCSO Act, the victim must be a child. A

child is defined u/s 2(d) of the POCSO Act. From the definition of child, it appears that a child
tne means’any person below the age of 18 years. From the discussion made above, it appears that
| ‘ the age of victim girl was above 18 years at the time of occurrence and as Sidi the provision of
Le ~syz, the POCSO Act is not applicable in this case and accused is not found guilty u/s 6 of the POCSO
Act.

18. | The next question arises whether the accused committed rape on the victim “X” or not.
PW1 in the FIR elaborately stated that three months before the incident accused with a promise
to marry “X” committed sexual intercourse on her in the house of her maternal uncle and
thereafter on several occasion committed sexual intercourse with her at different places and on
3-3-2018 while the accused was committing sexual intercourse on victim “X” at Bagmara near
road then the public caught red handed the accused. But PW1 nowhere in her evidence stated
that accused person committed sexual intercourse with the victim “X”. The victim “X” examined
as PW2. PW2 also in her evidence nowhere stated that accused has committed sexual intercourse
with her at any point time. During investigation the statement of the PW2 was recorded u/s 164
of the Cr. P. C. Exhibit-4 is the statement of PW2 recorded u/s 164 of the Cr. P. C. Ongoing
through the exhibit-4 it reveals that PW2 in her statement u/s 164 of the Cr. P. C. stated that on
03-03-2018 she went Bagmara Madrassa to attend a religious meeting and while she was at 10

\ PM returning from meeting then accused pulled her on the north side and want to commit rape

’

on her and she raised hue and cry and the public save her, thereafter father of Moinul came and

C\ gave assurance for village settlement and also told that her marriage would be solemnize with

an Moinul, but father of Moinul had done nothing and before that incident accused also committed
a2

\ jue?

a,

’

>
.
  
 

ECO,
NN * “

~ ——
Pa

< Vle
% yt

4

a

sexual intercourse with her three months back, saying that he loves her and he would marry her.
But PW2 in her evidence simply stated that on the night of occurrence at about 10 PM while she
went to outside of the pendal of the meeting to discharge her nature's call then accused gagged
her mouth and tried to get up her on his vehicle and then public caught him and brought them
to her brother-in-law’s house. In this case except PW2 there is no eye witness. Hence, the
evidence of PW2 is very much important. It is settled law that on the basis of sole testimony of
the rape victim conviction can be sustained if the evidence of victim is trustworthy and her
evidence is free from embellishment. Ongoing going through the evidence of PW2 it reveals that
there is no consistency in her evidence. Moreover, PW2 in her evidence nowhere stated that
accused committed sexual intercourse with her or tried to commit sexual intercourse with her.
The prosecution also failed to examine the public who caught hold the accused and victim in the
place of occurrence. Therefore, I find that it is not safe at all to rely on the inconsistence evidence
of the PW2. Hence, I find that the evidence of PW2 is not trustworthy and her evidence is not
free from embellishment. Moreover, as per allegation the incident took place on 03-03-2018 and
the informant lodged the FIR on 09-04-2018 i.e after one month 6 days of the incident. It is
settled law that delay always not fatal to the prosecution case if the prosecution able to explain
the féason of delay. In this case the informant in her FIR and evidence stated that she was
waited for village settlement but no settlement arrived and as such she filed the FIR. There is no
evidence to show that any meeting for settlement was held in the village. Then why the informant
waited for 36 days and thereafter she filed the FIR. So, the reason of delay is not believable at
all. So, I find that 36 days delay in lodging the FIR is fatal to the prosecution case and the FIR is
afterthought and the prosecution case is doubtful. Hence, I have nothing to hesitate to hold that

prosecution failed to prove the charges against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.

19. From the discussion made above, I find that the prosecution side miserably failed to prove
the case against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, accused Md. Mominul Hussain
@ Moinul Hoque is found not guilty u/s 376 of the IPC, R/W section 6 of the POCSO Act and he
is acquitted from the charge of offence u/s 376 of the IPC, R/W section 6 of the POCSO Act and
set him free at his liberty forthwith.

20. Send a copy of the judgment to the District Magistrate, Chirang as per provision of Section
365 of the Cr.P.C.

21. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case I find that this is not a fit case to

AY recommend DLSA, Chirang for victim compensation u/s 357-A of the Cr. P. C.

Asy

ot
       

22. The seized school certificate be returned to the informant in due course of time. The

   

seized vehicle be returned to the registered owner of the vehicle in due course of time.

  
  

  

Given under my hand & seal of this court the 17" day of May, 2019.

> 1K
as\
Addl. cial Jud

ie
Addl, Spinial Judge
Bijni

      
 

 
APPENDIX
(A) Prosecution witnesses:
PW1- Musstt. Jabeda Khatun
PW2- victim “X”,
PW3- Md. Anowar Hussain
PW4- Md. Nur Mohamad Ali
PW5-Dr. Mina Hazarika
PW6- Musstt. Joygun Nessa
PW7- Md. Matin Ali
PW8- Sri Sailen Deori
(B) Prosecution exhibit;
Exhibit-1, FIR.
| Exhibit-2, seizer list.
|| Exhibit-3, School Certificate.
1S) Exhibit-4, statement u/s 164 of the Cr. P. C.
- ”" — Exhibit-4, Medical report.
Exhibit-5 & 6, sketch map of the P. O.
Exhibit-7, seizer list of vehicle.
Exhibit-8, charge sheet.
(C) Defence witnesses- Nil.
(D) Defence exhibit- Nil.

cet"

Additiona¥ Special Judge,
Ad w Lge

Bini.
