THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS J UDGE :: :: SIVASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Special | udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 11 of 2016 U/ S 4 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Gelakey P.S. Case No. 54/2016)

State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Sarat Koiri @ Anil Koiri .......... Accused

APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Sri A. K. Bora, P.P.
For the accused Sri Biju Sarma, Advocate
Date of framing Charge: 16.06.2016
Dates of Evidence 21.01.2017, 17.03.2017, 06.05.2017,

26.07.2017.
Date of S/D 31.10.2017
Date of Argument 31.10.2017
Date of J udgment 08.11.2017

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 14.04.2016, victim 'R' (name

withheld) lodged an FIR with O/C, Gelakey P.S. alleging, inter alia, that about a
year back of filing this FIR, accused Sarat Koiri used to visit her house in
absence of her parents and by giving criminal intimidation of various nature
proposed to love her, but knowingly that he was a married man she refused.
On this, by giving threat of life, accused established illicit relationship with her
and under compelling circumstances she consented for which she became
pregnant. On informing this matter, the accused refused to accept her and
neglected to receive her phone call. Presently she was pregnant for seven

months.

2. On this FIR, Gelakey P.S. Case No. 54/2016, u/s 4 of POCSO Act,

2012 was registered and investigated into the case. During investigation,

Special (P) Case No. 11 of 2016 Page 1 of 9
accused was arrested and the victim was produced before the learned J MFC,
Sivasagar for recording her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. and also got her
medically examined. On completion of investigation, |.0. has submitted Charge-
Sheet against the above named accused U/S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

3. After furnishing copy to the accused person, vide order dated
16.06.2016, my learned predecessor in office has framed the charge u/s 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012 against the above named accused person to which he
pleaded not guilty. During trial, prosecution has examined six witnesses
including M.O. and |.0. Defence cross-examined the said P.W.s but adduced no

evidence.

4, Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was
called upon to enter into defence. Defence case is of total denial and false

implication.

a | have heard argument of learned P.P. Mr. A.K. Bora and Mr. Biju

Sarma, learned defence counsel and gone through the evidence and documents.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE:

6. (i) What was the age of the victim on the date of incident?

(il) Whether the victim 'R' was subjected to penetrative sexual assault
by the accused against her will? If so, whether accused has committed
offence of penetrative sexual assault?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

7 PW 1 Dr. Sundar Changmai in his evidence deposed that on 15.04.
2016, he examined the victim RB in connection with Geleky P.S. Case No. 54/16
and opined that during examination no any violence mark detected on her body
and private parts. At present victim is carrying 33 weeks pregnancy. As per
dentist opinion her age is below 17 years. He proved his report as Ext. 1. PW-1
further deposed that no lady doctor was present on the day of examination of
the patient/victim. In his cross examination, he deposed that without

conducting X-Ray, proper age cannot be determined. He stated that he is a
Special (P) Case No. 11 of 2016 Page 2 of 9
specialist in Gynecologist. He admitted that without obtaining any dentist

opinion, he has mentioned the age of the victim/patient.

8. PW 2 victim RB in her evidence deposed that accused Sarat Kairi
@ Anil is known to her being co-villagers. Accused is a married man having two
children. About a year back, the accused has offered to grow love affairs with
her but she denied as he was married. On her denial, taking advantage of
Staying alone in her house, accused came to her residence thrice and
committed rape on her against her will by using force. On stoping of her
menstrual period, she informed the matter to her aunt Rohila Bhuyan. On
becoming pregnant, her father came to know about this and scolded her. On
this, during her pregnancy of 8 months, she has to disclose the fact and told
her father, aunt Rohila Bhuyan and cousin Maina Sahu that she become
pregnant through the accused. Her father has informed the matter to
gaonburah and village president but they did not turn up. On this, she lodged
one FIR at Geleky PS. Police also took her for medical examination and brought
her to court for statement. PW-2 further deposed that after about one month,
she has delivered one girl child. Present age of her child is about 9 months. In
her cross examination, victim admitted that Samra Ghatowar is known to her.
About 6-7 years back, she married Samra Ghatowar. She denied that she has
stayed with Samra Ghatowar for about one and half year. Samra was a resident
of same locality. Residence of accused Anil is near to her residence. Accused
Anil used to work as labour Sardar in the Tea Estate of Riajuddin. She used to
work in the said T.E. and have acquaintance with the accused. After her return
from the company of Samra Ghatowar, after three days, he came to her
residence for taking her back. Victim denied that Samra Ghatowar maintains
visiting relation with her. At the time of her marriage with Samra Ghatowar, she
was aged about 14-15 years. Victim also denied that after leaving the residence
of Samra Ghatowar, she and her family members have pressed the accused Anil
Koiri to marry her. She also denied that on this, there was a quarrel and that
accused has terminated her from the labour work of the T.E. Victim further
denied that accused did not commit rape on her. FIR was written on her
Special (P) Case No. 11 of 2016 Page 3 of 9
dictation. Victim further denied that in her FIR, she has not mentioned of
committing sex with force and against her will. Victim denied that she was not
conceived through the accused. Victim admitted that immediately after the
incident of alleged forcible sex, she did not inform the matter to anybody. She
disclosed the name of accused as responsible of pregnancy only when she has
completed eight months pregnancy. She denied that as accused was innocent
as such, she did not disclose the name of accused for eight months. She denied
that she has deposed falsely by implicating the accused and that accused was

innocent.

9. PW 3 Sri Daria Bhuyan in his evidence deposed that accused Sarat
Kairi @ Anil is known to him being co-villagers. Victim R Bhuyan is his daughter.
When victim was pregnant for about 7 (seven) months, he came to know about
her pregnancy. Then he inquired about her pregnancy but initially she did not
disclose anything to him. On this, he requested Rohila Bhuyan to inquire the
cause of pregnancy. Before her, his daughter victim R_ disclosed the incident.
Thereafter, victim also told him that accused Anil @ Sarat Koiri came to her
residence and committed rape on her on several days. Through him she
become pregnant. She also told him that accused threatened her for not to
disclose about the incident. On knowing this, he has informed the mater to
Gaonburah and village president and they advised him to go Police Station. On
this, his daughter victim R lodged one FIR at Geleky PS. Police interrogated him.
Police also took the victim for medical examination and brought her to court for
Statement. PW-3 further deposed that about nine months back, victim R
delivered one girl child. In his cross examination PW-3 stated that Samra
Ghatowar is known to him. About 6-7 years back, victim was married to Samra
Ghatowar. He denied that at that time victim was aged about 14-15 years. PW-
3 stated that till seven months of pregnancy, victim did not disclose about her
pregnancy. Accused Anil used to work as labour Sardar in the Tea Estate of
Riajuddin. Victim used to work in the said T.E. as labour. He denied that victim
was removed from the work of labour. PW 3 further stated that accused used
to visit his residence. Rohila also told him about victim's pregnancy through
Special (P) Case No. 11 of 2016 Page 4 of 9
accused. He denied that victim R did not tell him that accused has committed
rape on her. He denied that they have tried to give marriage of the victim with
the accused to which he refused. His wife died long ago. He denied that

accused was no way responsible for the pregnancy of the victim.

10. PW-4 Smt. Rahila Bhuyan in her evidence deposed that about a
year back, one day victim R came to her and told that she was pregnant for
about 7 (seven) months and that she was pregnant through accused Sarat Kairi.
About 9-10 months back, victim R delivered one girl child. Police interrogated
her. In her cross PW 3 deposed that about 6-7 years back, R was married to
Samra Ghatowar. After 2 years of the conjugal life, R returned to her paternal
home. Residence of Samra was within one kilometer from their house. After
return to paternal home, for some month, Samra Ghatowar tried to take back R.
She denied that Samra Ghatowar used to visit R for taking her back till prior to
one week of filling of the case. She has no personal knowledge about the
cohabitation between R and accused. She has never seen the accused in
meeting R at any point of time. She came to know about the pregnancy only
when R was pregnant by seven months. She denied that accused was no way

responsible for the pregnancy of R.

11. PW-5 Sri Nabajyoti Gogoi in his evidence deposed that from the
villagers, he came to know that victim R become pregnant for about 7 (seven)
months. He has inquired from her. About 9-10 months back, R delivered one
girl child. In his cross examination, he deposed that about 6-7 years back, R
was married to Samra Ghatowar. After about 1-1% years of conjugal life, she
returned to her paternal home. She has heard that Samra Ghatowar used to
visit R for taking her back prior to this incidence. He has no personal knowledge

about the cohabitation between R and accused.

Te. PW-6 Sri Ashim Bora in his evidence deposed that on 14.04.2015,
he received one written FIR from victim R and registered Geleky PS case No.
54/15. Exbt. 2 is the FIR. During investigation, he went to the residence of

informant and drawn a sketch map of the PO. Exbt. 3 is the said sketch map.

Special (P) Case No. 11 of 2016 Page 5 of 9
On the next day, victim was sent for medical examination and also sent to
Court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On 15.04.2015, he
apprehended the FIR named accused Sri Sarat Koiri @ Anil Koiri and forwarded
him to Court for remand. He has collected the medical report and the statement
given by victim in Court. Exbt. 4 is the statement of the victim R. On completion
of investigation, he has submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 4 of
POCSO Act. Exbt. 5 is the charge sheet. In his cross examination PW 6 deposed
that he has visited the place of occurrence on the date of receipt of FIR at 5 PM.
He admitted that he has not examined the scribe of the FIR as witness. In and
around the residence of informant, several other persons have their residences.
He has not recorded the statement of the brother of the victim who used to
reside with the victim in same house. He has not examined Pankaj Gogoi and
Nandalal Boraik and cannot say that they are neighbours of the residence of
victim. He has not collected any other medical report regarding her test except
report of Dr. S. Changmai. He has not collected any age proof document of the

victim as she did not go to school and she has no birth certificate.

13. Point No. I: So far point No. | is concerned, from the materials
on record, particularly from the evidence of P.W. 1, the M.O. it appears that as
per dentist opinion her age was determined as below 17 years. In cross
examination PW-1 admitted that without conducting X-Ray, proper age cannot
be determined. PW-2, the victim 'R' while adducing her evidence claimed her
age as 17 years. However in her cross examination she admitted that about 6-7
years back, she was married to one Samra Ghatowar and at the time of her
marriage, she was aged about 14 to 15 years. PW-3 and 4, have corroborated
the above facts regarding marriage of the victim with Samra Ghatowar and her
age at the time of her marriage with the said Samra Ghatowar. PW-5 Sri
Nabajyoti Gogoi stated the fact of marriage of the victim about 6-7 years back.
From the above, if we calculate the age of the victim then her age appears to
be 19 to 20 years at the time of alleged incident. Moreover, law is well settled
that medical opinion may vary by two years on either side. Applying above, it
can safely be held that at the time of incident, the victim was major in age.
Special (P) Case No. 11 of 2016 Page 6 of 9
14. Points No. II: So far the allegation of penetrative sexual assault,
which may be termed as rape is concerned, in view of age of the victim, it
appears that there was no dispute regarding pregnancy of the victim at the
time of filing of the FIR. This fact was duly proved by the victim as well as the
other witnesses and also the PW-1, Medical Officer. The fact of giving birth of
one female child after filing of this case was also not in dispute and same was
admitted by the accused in his 313 Cr.P.C examination. As the victim was
pregnant at the time of filing of the FIR, so the fact of physical relationship
(sexual intercourse) by some male member is apparent on the face of the

record.

15. Now the prime question is whether accused has committed the
Said sexual intercourse with the victim against her will. In her FIR, the victim
Stated that by giving threat, accused committed rape on her against her will.
The victim though in her evidence stated that accused came to her residence
thrice and committed rape on her, but from the other part of the statement of
the victim, it appears that on stopping her menstrual period only, she informed
the matter to her aunt Rahila Bhuyan and her father came to know about the
incident while she was pregnant for about eight months. From the evidence of
victim as discussed above, it appears that she disclosed the matter of
involvement of the accused in causing her pregnant only after eight months of
her pregnancy which appears to be very unnatural. It is a matter of common
knowledge that pregnancy of a woman appears to be visible after 3-4 months
and in the case in hand, if we look at the evidence of PW-3, the father of the
victim it reveals that he could detect the pregnancy of the victim after seven
months and then only he asked Rahila Bhuyan to know the cause of pregnancy.
Even Rahila also in her evidence stated that after seven months of the
pregnancy, the victim informed her about her pregnancy and that too through
the accused. Keeping mum for about 7-8 months, though as per the FIR the
first incident of rape took place about a year back, the reliability of the evidence

of the victim becomes doubtful.

16. If we look at the evidence from other angle, particularly from the
Special (P) Case No. 11 of 2016 Page 7 of 9
cross examination of PW-2, the victim and her parents i.e. PW-3 and PW-4, it
appears that prior to the incident victim was a married to Samra Ghatowarl and
said fact was suppressed by them. There is evidence that Samra Ghatowar
used to keep relation with the victim for persuading her to return to conjugal

life.

17. Apart from this, it is also admitted by the victim that accused
worked as a labour Sardar in the Tea Garden where she worked as a labour.
Though the victim denied having some quarrel with the accused due to her
termination from the work of the Garden, but the facts narrated by the victim
and her parents do not inspire any confidence on the testimony of PW-2
regarding allegation of rape by the accused. The evidence of the victim and her
parents, particularly on the point of non-disclosure of fact of commission of
rape by the accused for about seven months makes their evidence

untrustworthiness and unsafe to hold the accused guilty.

18. Considering all above, | am of the opinion that prosecution has
failed to prove the charge U/S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 or any other minor
offences against the accused Sarat Koiri @ Anil Koiri. As such, accused Sarat
Koiri @ Anil Koiri is acquitted from the charges U/S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and
Set at liberty forthwith.

19. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the matter is
not referred to DLSA for granting compensation U/S 357 (A) Cr.P.C.

20. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

21. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 8° day of

November 2017 at Sivasagar.

Special | udge,
Sivasagar
Special (P) Case No. 11 of 2016 Page 8 of 9
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses -

P.W.1- Dr. Sundar Changmai (M.O.)
P.W.2- Victim R

P.W.3- Sri Daria Bhuyan

P.W.4- Smt. Rahila Bhuyan (Informant)
P.W.5- Sri Nabajyoti Gogol

P.W.6- Sri Ashim Bora (I.0.)

 

2. Defence witnesses: Nil.

3. Court witnesses: Nil.

4. Exhibits by prosecution -
Exbt.1 - Medical examination report.
Exbt.2 - FIR
Exbt.3 - Sketch map
Exbt.4 - Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Exbt.5 - Charge-Sheet.

Special | udge,
Sivasagar

Special (P) Case No. 11 of 2016 Page 9 of 9
