 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,

Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 50 (T) of 2017
U/s 4 OF THE POCSO Act
The State of ASSAM .......ccccccceeeeeeeeenes Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Bharat Tanti @ Puchi
S/o- Sri Lakhicharan Tanti
R/o- Hatijan Natun Line

P.S- Doomdooma

District- Tinsukia, ASSAM a... eee eee eeeeeee eee Accused.
Appearance:

Sri B.L Agarwal

Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the Complainant

Sri Munna Kr. Singh

Advocate@  —_______iinaeuaeeceeseneenees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 03.04.2018

Date of Judgment: 03.04.2018

Jj UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1; The prosecution case against the accused is that on
the day of occurrence, at about 5 pm, the 15 years old victim
girl of this case along with her cousin Tinku Karuwa were
searching for a cow in a tea garden. At that time, the accused
appeared there and pounced upon the victim girl. She was
dragged into the tea garden. Tinku Karuwa had seen the
occurrence and therefore he shouted for help. Tinku Karuwa
was about 10 years old at that time. Finally the accused
managed to over power the victim girl and had forceful

sexual intercourse with her.

2. During the period of investigation, the victim girl was
subjected to medical examination. The doctor did not find
any injury upon the private parts of the victim girl. The victim
girl and Tinku Karuwa was also produced before a magistrate
for recording their statement u/s 164 Cr.PC.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

3. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had penetrative sexual assault upon the

victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined the victim girl, her mother
and her cousin Bikash Karuwa @ Tinku Karuwa. The defence
plea is total denial. | have carefully gone through the

prosecution evidences.

5. In this case, the victim girl has stated that while she
and her cousin Tinku Karuwa were searching for a cow inside
a tea garden, they met the accused there. The victim girl has
stated that the accused became angry on seeing them, on
the ground that they were loitering inside the tea garden in
dark. The victim girl has stated that the accused beat her and
therefore she ran away from that place. She has stated that
her parents also beat her on that issue. According to the
victim girl, a friend of her named Deuki, who was a member
of Local Student Union formally took her to the police station
and she was made to file an ejahar. The victim girl has stated
that she did not remember what she had stated in her
statement u/s 164 Cr.PC.

6. Thus, the victim girl ha resiled from her earlier
statement made before the police.

7. Similarly Bikash Karua @ Tinku Karuwa also stated in
his evidence in similar fashion. He has stated that the
accused slapped him and also slapped the victim girl, on the
ground that they were unnecessarily loitering in the garden
after dark. The second witness also resiled from his earlier
statement made before the police. The third witness is the
mother of the victim girl. She also supported her daughter
and the other witness. In this way the mother of the victim
girl also became hostile, as she has also resiled from his
earlier statement made before the police.

8. On careful perusal of the prosecution evidences, | find
that the victim girl and the eye witness have failed to support
the case of the prosecution. Even the mother of the victim
girl also failed to support the prosecution case. Thus, | have
reasons to hold that the prosecution side has failed to prove
the offence against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubts.

ORDER

9. That being the position, the accused Sri Bharat Tanti @
Puchi is found not guilty and accordingly the accused is
acquitted from this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
3rdth day of April, 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge
Tinsukia

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_E N DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Smti Bharati Karuwa
2. PW2 - Smti Surajmoni Karuwa
3. PW3 - Sri Bikash Karuwa

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS
None
DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
