1 eCourtIs copy

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,

SPECIAL CASE NO.36/2019
U/S.366 IPC & R.W Section-
4 of POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM

Vs

Sri Rajka Kisku
S/O. Lt. Lohid Kisku
Vill- Hasrawbari
P.S. Serfanguri
Dist. Kokrajhar

beneaees Accused person.
Appearance: -

Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghose, Special P.P
Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. S. Tudu

Charge framed on 22.11.2019
Evidence recorded on 10.01.2020
Argument heard on 10.02.2020
Judgment pronounced on 14.02.2020
UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that on 13.12.2018 xxx, the
grandfather of the victim, lodged an FIR with O/C, Gossaingaon P.S

alleging that on 10.12.2018 she had gone to her school but has not

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
2 eCourtIs copy
returned since then. He also alleged that he suepection abdcution of

her granddaughter.

2. On receipt of the FIR a case under Section 365 of IPC was
registered and after completion of the investigation, a charge sheet
was laid against the accused Rajka Kisku for commission of offence

U/S 365 IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

3. The accused person was summoned and on his appearance,
copies of the relevant documents were furnished to him. The case
was transferred to this Court for disposal. After hearing both sides
charges under Section- 366 of IPC , R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act was
framed against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and

claimed trial.

4. In the course of trial prosecution examined 3 (three )
witnesses. At the closure of prosecution evidence, the accused
person was examined U/S 313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of

total denial and the accused declined to adduce any evidence.

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused abducted the victim?

(ii) Whether the accused committed sexual intercourse

with the victim?

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIs copy

DECISION AND REASONS :

6. Pwl xxx the victim, deposed that about 1 year back she was
in love relationship with the accused and accordingly after her school
she went to Kachugaon to meet the accused. She stayed in the
house of paternal Aunt of accused and after 9 days police recovered
her from the house of accused. She was produced before the
Magistrate for recording of her statement. She was also medically
examined at RNB Civil Hospital, Kokrajhar. Exhibit-1 is the statement
and Exhibit-1(1) is her signature.

7. In cross examination Pwl, victim deposed that her date of
birth is 7.7.2001. She deposed that accused had not abducted her
and that she went to the residence of his paternal Aunt on her own.
She also deposed that the accused did not commit sexual intercourse
with her.

8. Pw2 xxx, the grandfather of the victim, deposed that about 1
year back victim had gone to School but did not return thereafter and
hence, he lodged an FIR. After lodging the FIR the victim was
recovered from the residence of accused by police. The victim is
presently living with him. Exhibit-2 is the FIR and Exhibit-2(1) is his
signature.

9. In cross examination Pw2 deposed that he personally does not

know from whose house the victim was recovered.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
4 eCourtIs copy
10. Pw3 Sri Hopna Besra deposed that he worked as Adhiar under
the complainant and that he does not know anything about this case.
He only know that once police had visited the residence of
complainant.
11. The evidence on record does not establish that accused did not
act which may amount to abduction of the victim. Further, the victim
categorically deposed that accused did not commit any sexual
intercourse with her. On these evidence, a conviction cannot be

sustained.
12. In view of the above, the points for determination are answered
in negative.

ORDER

Accused Sri Rajka Kisku_ is acquitted of the charges under Section
366 of IPC , R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.

His bail bonds shall remain valid for six months.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this 14" day of
February,2020.

Dictated by
Special Judge Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIs copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-

Exhibit-1 Statement
Exhibit-2 FIR
2. Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1 XXX victim
P.W.2 Sri Kameswar Hasda
P.W.3 Sri Hopna Besra
4.Defence Witness Nil
5. Court witness Nil

Special Judge
Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
