 

Present: Smti S. Bhuyan
Special Judge
Nalbari.

Special (P) Case No : 8/16
u/s- 448/354(A)/376 IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam

-V/sS-

Bhaskarjyoti Barman
S/O-Bharat Barman
R/o, Vill-Bhojkuchi

PS-Tihu, Dist-Nalbari = aanunnnnenneees Accused person
Appearance :-

For the prosecution : Mr. K. Sarma, Special PP

For the defence : Mr. A. U. Choudhury, Advocate.

Mr. M.Kalita, Advocate.

Date of evidence : 22/07/16, 05/09/16, 06/09/16,
07/01/17, 04/01/17, 15/07/17,
27/06/19
Statement of accused recorded : 08/08/19
Date of Argument : 04/12/19
Judgment Delivered : 17/12/19
JUDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution as revealed from the ejahar

lodged by informant vide Ext- 4 is that on 19/03/16 at about 6.30
pm, accused persons coming from backside, pulled down her
daughter on ground by pulling her hair, torn her cloths and
tortured her minor daughter Miss 'X' victim of the case (name
changed as the case has been registered under POCSO Act) and

Special (P) Case No:8/16 1 of 13
after discussion with the family members informant lodged the
ejahar.

2. O/C Tihu PS on receipt of the ejahar, registered Tihu PS case
No. 34/16 u/s-448/376 IPC read with section-4 of the POCSO Act
and lynched investigation. He recorded the statement of victim
and informant at the police station. Thereafter, he sent the victim
to SMK Civil Hospital for her medical examination and produced
the victim before the learned Magistrate to record her statement
u/s-164 CrPC. He visited the place of occurrence, drawn sketch
map of the place of occurrence, recorded statement of other
witnesses, seized birth certificate of the victim girl, seized some
items and collected the medical report of victim. Accused
Bhaskarjyoti Barman surrendered before the IO and arrested him
and prodcued the accused before the court and after completion
of investigation laid charge sheet against the accused Bhaskar
Jyoti Barman u/s-448/354(A) IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Act
vide Ext-10.

3. On receipt of the charge sheet my then learned predecessor
took cognizance and after furnishing copies to the accused,
framed charge u/s-448/354(A)/376 IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act
against the accused Bhaskarjyoti Barman vide order dated
24/05/16 and when charges are read over and explained to the
accused, he pleaded not guilty and stood for trial and granted bail.

4. In order to prove the charge against the accused person,
prosecution altogether adduces evidence of 7 no’s of witnesses
including the informant, victim, M/O and |1/O of the case and
exhibited 10 no’s of documents. PW-1, Dr. Bandana Deka (M/O),
PW-2, Anita Barman (informant), PW-3, Miss 'X' (victim), PW-4,
Anjan Barman, PW-5, Dwipen Barman, PW-6, Ani Barman and PW-
7, Bhaskar Kalita (I/O). Ext-1, Medical report, Ext-2, X-ray report,
Ext-3 laboratory report of vaginal swab, Ext-4 Ejahar, Ext-5 Seizure
list of chappal, Ext-6 statement of victim u/s-164 CrPC; Ext-7,
Seizure list of cloth; Ext-8, Seizure list of birth certificate of victim;

Special (P) Case No:8/16 2 of 13
Ext-9, sketch map of the place of occurrence; Ext-10 charge-sheet.
After closures of the evidence of the prosecution, statement of the
accused Bhaskarjyoti Barman recorded u/s-313 Cr.P.C and accused
plea is of total denial however, he declined to adduce evidence in
support of his plea of denial.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATIONS ARE:-

(i) Whether accused Bhaskarjyoti Barman committed house
trespass by entering into the house of Dwipen Barman with intent

to commit sexual harassment and rape upon Miss 'X' ?

(ii) Whether accused Bhaskarjyoti Barman committed sexual
harassment upon Miss 'X' ?

(iii) Whether accused Bhaskarjyoti Barman committed rape upon
Miss 'X' ?

(iv) Whether accused committed penetrative sexual assault upon
Miss 'X' ?
Argument

5. | have heard argument of learned counsel for both sides. It
has been argued by learned Special PP that prosecution beyond all
reasonable doubt established the case of the prosecution and
victim is below 18 years of age.

6. It has been argued by learned defence counsel that ejahar
was lodged after three days of the incident and evidence pointed
that ejahar was the outcome of after thought story after having
discussion and therefore the prosecution case is not believable
and delay being not explained by the informant is fatal for the
prosecution. He further submitted that there is no whispering of
the word rape in the ejahar and ejahar was lodged as per
statement of the victim. Therefore, it is revealed that the
statement made in the evidence is untrue and when whole
prosecution case is based on false statement the case of the
prosecution against the accused Bhaskarjyoti Barman does not

Special (P) Case No:8/16 3 of 13
stand. Learned counsel further submitted that the statement of
the uncle (khura) and other PWs are not believable as because
their statement pointed they exaggerated the facts and statement
of the victim pointed that she knows accused prior to the incident
and statement of uncle and victim pointed the boy came to meet
the girl and when family members came out the boy run away. He
further submitted that uncle of the victim Ani and Anjan improve
their statement and their piece of evidence is not a safe piece to
used against the accused. He pointed that the victim started her
case with false statement of stating her age as 14 years.
Radiological estimated age is above 16 years and below 18 years
and radiological estimated age is not the accurate age of victim.
Learned counsel again submitted that the victim being a minor so
there is every chance to tutor her and seized dress were not
produced before the magistrate and seized articles even not
produced before the court at the time of adducing evidence to
proof the relevancy of dress with the prosecution charge of rape
against the accused. He further submitted that as the original
birth certificate is not produced, so radiological estimated age will
comes to play and prosecution failed to bring home the charge of
section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused person. He
submitted accused was 22 years old at the time of incident. In
support of his plea relied upon the decision of Abhijit Dutta versus
State of Assam and anr, 2019(1) GLT 17; Lalhmingchhuanga
versus State of Mizoram, 2011 GLT (Crl.) 841.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

 

7. PW-1 is the doctor who had examined victim of the case on
29/03/16. As per Ext-4 ejahar incident took place on 19/03/16 that
means she had examined the victim after 10 days i.e 11" day of
the incident. At the time of examination she found victim was
wearing fresh cloth, washed her genitalia, mouth, anal canal after
the incident, no injuries were seen, external genitalia normal,
hymen intact and laboratory report of vaginal swab gave result of

no spermatozoa. Ext-1 is the medical report of victim girl and as
Special (P) Case No:8/16 4 of 13
per radiological evidence, age of the victim is estimated above 16
years and below 18 years.

8. PW-2 the informant in ejahar Ext-4 stated that on 19/03/16
at about 6.30 pm when her 14 years old minor daughter Miss ‘X’
was present alone at home accused Bhaskar Barman entering
from backside pulled down her daughter on ground and jumping
into her body torn her dress and outraged her modesty. In the
ejahar, PW-2 stated that accused outraged the modesty of her
daughter by jumping on her body, tearing clothes of her daughter
and pulling down her daughter on ground by pulling her hair and
incident took place at about 6.30 pm. While adducing her
evidence she stated that native village of her husband is at
Bhojkuchi under Tihu PS and she and her husband with their
daughter stayed at Mendikhata and at the time of incident, her
whole family came to husband’s native village Bhojkuchi under
Tihu PS because of Tihu sabha. She stated on the date of incident
she went to Barama at about 10 am and her victim daughter
stayed in the house of her grandfather at Bhojkuchi village. At
about 5 pm, when she returned to Bhojkuchi she noticed gathering
of huge people in the compound of her husband and noticed Miss
‘X’ was crying inside the room. On asking Ani Barman, khura of her
husband told her that they found Miss ‘X’ with accused Bhaskar in
the cowshed belonging to bardeuta of her daughter present near
her father-in-law’s house. Thereafter, they beat victim and she
also beat her daughter. She deposed when she noticed her
daughter she found her dresses are torn and on asking her
daughter she did not disclose anything. She stated her daughter
was 14 years old at the time of incident. Her cross pointed she
does not know accused and not seen him earlier. Bhubaneswar

Barman is her father in-law.

9. PW-3 is the victim. Her evidence is that she knows accused
Bhaskar Barman. Few day prior to the incident, she visits the
house of her paternal grandfather, Bhubaneswar Barman along
with her parents and on the date of incident her mother visits

Special (P) Case No:8/16 5 of 13
house of her mahi at Barama and she and her grandfather was
present at home. Incident took place at about 5 pm. She came
backside and was picking the dry cloths and accused coming from
her backside dragged her towards cowshed present on the
backside of the house of her grandfather's house. Thereafter, he
holds her after tearing her cloths, he pressed on her chest. When
she wanted to shout accused gagged her mouth with his hands.
He assaulted on her neck and chest. After pulling down in the
cowshed, he torn her top and pant and raped her. When she
shouted her grandfather and uncle came and when her
grandfather and uncle came accused ran away and her
grandfather found her lying on the ground. From there she was
taken to the house of her grandfather. Thereafter, villagers went
for the search of accused but he was not found, people gathered
and restrained them to lodge the case. She disclosed whole
incident that took place with her to Bhanita, her pehi but out of
shyness she could not disclosed the incident to her mother. She
was taken to doctor after three days who examined her. Police
produced her before Magistrate where she made statement.

10. Her cross pointed she met accused in the village sabha for
the 1* time and this was her 1* visit to her grandfather's house.
The place of incident is present at her bardeuta house. House of
her bardeuta reach first where her bardeuta live with her barma
and then house of her grandfather present and two other house
stand in between her bardeuta and grandfather's house. There
was no cowshed present in the courtyard of her grandfather and
one gravel road passes by the side of her grandfather's house and
field is present on the backside of her grandfather’s house. The
cowshed of her bardeuta present in front of his main house and
there is a road in front of the cowshed at a little distance and there
is open space in between cowshed and road. House of Nikita,
whom she met for first time, reached first then house of her
grandfather if one goes by taking Bhojkuchi road. She again in
cross stated she and accused Bhaskar posed for a photograph but

she does not remember who shoot the said photo. She stated she
Special (P) Case No:8/16 6 of 13
was picking cloths facing towards the field and at that time her
grandfather was on road and she went to pick up the cloths talking
with her grandfather. At that time of incident the construction of
the house of her bardetua Samarendra was just started and only
fencing of the cowshed finished. In cross she stated accused
dragged her using his two hands and she again stated accused
dragged her by using his one hand and gagged her mouth by
other hand. She tried to freed herself from the grip of the accused
and accused dragged her into the courtyard assaulted her on her
face and chest, then she shouted but her grandfather did not
come as he has hearing problem. Accused torn her jeans dress,
her own 'koka' did not come to the place of occurrence, cowshed
and only Ani Koka came.

11. PW-6 is Ani Barman, his evidence is that in the evening of
the day of occurrence, he went to the backside of cowshed of
house of victim in search of his cow and noticed accused and
victim inside the cowshed. While he shouted who is there accused
ran away leaving his chappal. He chased him but accused fled
away leaving his bike and on the next day, bike was handed over
to father of accused. In cross he stated PW-3 sometimes used to
visit the village house prior to the incident.

12. Statement of PW-4 Anjan Barman is that on the date of
incident while he came out from his house for walking, he heard
hue and cry in the house of Bhubaneswar Barman and then he and
Anil Barman ran and noticed Miss ‘X' in the cowshed of
Samarendra in naked condition and lying on the cowshed, accused
run away leaving his bike and pair of chappal. Bike was parked in
the courtyard of Bhubaneswar Barman. Police seized chappal vide
Ext-5, Ext-5(2) is his signature. He noticed accused doing 'beya
kam' (indecent work) with the girl. In cross stated parents of the
accused took the bike. The cowshed is present on the East side of
the house of Bhubaneswar Barman and there is a road on the west
side of the cowshed. House of Bhubaneswar is after the house of
Samarendra, thereafter, house of one of their khura is present,

Special (P) Case No:8/16 7 of 13
after that his house, then house of Krishna Barman, Dimbeswar
and all of them are relative and all the houses present on East side
of the road. There is field on the back side of the house of
Bhubaneswar. He noticed 4/5 other persons when reached in front
of the house of Bhubaneswar Barman hearing hue and cry of the
people. Later on, other person arrived and they heard hue and cry
coming from the side of cowshed. He, Anil, Bhubaneswar and
Dwipen ran towards the cowshed.

13. PW-5 is the father of Miss 'X' the alleged victim of the case,
his evidence is that his original house is at village Bhojkuchi and
he reside at Goalpara and at the time of incident he, his wife and
his daughter Miss 'X' came to Bhojkuchi on the occasion of sabha.
He stated at that time he was staying in a house adjacent to
house his father’s house and when he was returning from market
his father Bhubaneswar Barman and uncle Ani called him. At that
moment, he noticed accused running away from his house. His
uncle asked him to catch accused, he chased him but could not
catch him. His uncle Ani told him that accused committed bad
works with his daughter. After half an hour later his wife came, and
his sister Bhanita and his wife inquired Miss 'X' and Miss 'X'
reported that accused did bad work with her and his sister and
wife report him the said fact.

14. PW-7 IO of the case. He deposed on 21/03/16 he received
an ejahar from informant and registered Tihu PS case No. 34/16
u/s-448/376 IPC read with section-4 of the POCSO Act and lynched
investigation. He recorded the statement of victim and informant
at the police station. Thereafter, he sent the victim to SMK Civil
Hospital for her medical examination and produced the victim
before the learned Magistrate to record her statement u/s-164
CrPC. He visited the place of occurrence, drawn sketch map of the
place of occurrence vide Ext-9, recorded statement of other
witnesses, seized birth certificate of the victim girl vide Ext-7,
seized hawai chappal vide Ext-5 and collected the medical report
of victim. Accused Bhaskarjyoti Barman surrendered before the IO

Special (P) Case No:8/16 8 of 13
and arrested him and prodcued the accused before the court and
after completion of investigation laid charge sheet against the
accused Bhaskar Jyoti Barman u/s-448/354(A) IPC and section 4 of
the POCSO Act vide Ext-10. In cross stated Miss 'X' did not disclose
before him that she was dragged to the cowshed, torn her cloths
and pressed her breast and accused committed rape upon her.

15. Onscrutiny of the statement of PW-3, it is seen that she did
not disclose incident to her mother and father. Her mother PW-2
also stated her daughter did not disclose incident to her. But her
father stated his daughter narrated incident to his wife that is
mother and his wife narrated incident to him. The piece of
statement of PW-5 that his daughter disclosed incident to his wife
and his wife disclosed the incident to him is not a believable
evidence because this fact has not been stated by his wife and
daughter. PW-5 stated he was called by his father and uncle Ani
but Ani barman who is examined as PW-6 did not say that he
called PW-5. PW-6 not stated he came along with other persons,
Anjan Barman or any other persons as stated by witness Anjan
Barman or he disclosed incident to PW-5 that accused did bad
work with daughter of PW-5. Therefore, the statement of PW-4,
that Ani Barman came walking along with him and both of them
came to the place of occurrence hearing hue and cry and that PW-
6 told PW-5 that accused did 'beya kam' with Miss ‘X’ and PW-6
called PW-5 does not derive confidence as this statement are not
made by PW-6 while adducing his evidence.

16. The statement of PW-2 and PW-5 pointed that they did not
witness the incident and PW-2 evidence pointed she did not hear
any incident from her daughter. PW-3 Miss 'X' the alleged victim
stated out of shyness she could not disclose incident to her
mother, so under such circumstances, she disclosed incident to
her father when she did not made statement before the court that
she disclosed incident to her father, the statement of PW-5 that his
daughter disclosed incident to him is not believable.

Special (P) Case No:8/16 9 of 13
17. PW-6 stated he noticed accused in the cowshed. PW-5
deposed he noticed accused coming from their house. Victim's
evidence is that the place of occurrence, cowshed was not present
in the courtyard of her grandfather Bhubaneswar Barman. It was
present in the compound of Samarendra, her bardeuta, her
statement further pointed her bardeuta Samarendra just started
construction of the house and only fencing of the cowshed was
given where incident took place and statement of PW-3 Miss 'X'
pointed she was picking dry cloths on the courtyard of her
grandfather Bhubaneswar Barman and house of her grandfather
and her bardeuta Samarendra are different and another two house
is present in between house of her grandfather and Samarendra.
The statement of PW-3 further pointed her grandfather was
present on road and she went to pick the cloths talking with her
grandfather. If this piece of statement of PW-3 is taken into
consideration, then her grandfather Bhubaneswar Barman would
have noticed accused dragging her towards the cowshed of
Samarendra which is present on a separate campus and in
between, there are other two houses present. She stated that
accused assaulted on her face, chest but her medical report even

not shown any old injury at the time of medical examination.

18. PW-6 did not state that accused did 'beya kam' and/or rape
the victim. Her hymen was intact as per medical report. There is
no mark of injury or violence on her body, even old scar not
present. Therefore, the statement of the alleged victim that she
was raped by accused does not derive confidence.

19. The statement of PW-3 pointed she met the accused at the
sabha, both have posed for a photograph. PW-7 stated he seized
wearing dress of the victim at the time of incident. But those were
not sent to FSL to find out presence of semen. Those dress were
even not produced before the doctors who had examined victim.
The prosecution also not produced the dress before the court for
identification.

Special (P) Case No:8/16 10 of 13
20. The victim in her evidence once stated accused dragged her
to backside of her grandfather's house where there is a cowshed
and again stated she was taken to the cowshed of her bardeuta
Samarendra and said cowshed is present in front of the house of
her bardeuta and road passes near the cowshed. Her evidence
further pointed that there is no cowshed present in the compound
of her grandfather. Thus dragging of the victim on the backside of
the house of grandfather of the victim does not stand as her own
evidence pointed there is no cowshed in the compound of her
grandfather. Grandfather who was present with PW-3 has not been
examined by IO and prosecution. His evidence is withhold so,
accused entitled benefit u/s-114(g) of the Evidence Act.

21. The statement of PW-2 pointed the family members beat
her daughter and she also beat her. If the accused raped her
daughter then the question of beating Miss ‘X’ does not arise. The
statement of PW-4, pointed that bike was present in the courtyard
of Bhubaneswar Barman, grandfather of the victim and incident
according to PW-3 took place in the cowshed of her bardeuta
Samarendra which is different compound. PW-4 and PW-5 made
statement that bike and chappal was returned back on next day to
the mother of the accused. Therefore, the seizure of the green
colour hawai chappal of accused at the place of occurrence vide
Ext-5 by IO does not pointed that said chappal belonged to
accused. If chappal and bike already returned to mother of
accused as per statement of PW-4 and PW-5, then seizure of the
chappal at the place of occurrence does not derive connect and
establish that it was accused chappal.

22. In view of the aforesaid discussion, | come to my definite
finding that statement of PW-3 Miss 'X' is not safe piece of
evidence to hold accused guilty and her evidence does not derive
confidence and | find from the evidence on record that prosecution
evidence is not sufficient enough to hold accused Bhaskarjyoti
Barman guilty of committing of offence u/s-448/354(A)/376 IPC
and 4 of the POCSO Act and | am constraint to hold that

Special (P) Case No:8/16 11 of 13
prosecution failed to bring home the charge u/s-448/354(A)/376
IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubt and
accused entitled benefit of doubt.

23. Accordingly, accused Bhaskarjyoti Barman is acquitted from
the charge of section 448/354(A)/376 IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act
and is set at liberty.

24. However, his bail bonds remain stands for next 6 (six)
months u/s-437-A CrPC.

Judgment is given under my hand and seal of this court on
this the 17" day of December, 2019.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Nalbari

Dictated & corrected by me

(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Nalbari

Typed by:
Biswajit Bhattacharjya
Copyist

Special (P) Case No:8/16 12 of 13
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witnesses
PW-1, Dr. Bandana Deka (M/O),
PW-2, Anita Barman (informant),
PW-3, Miss 'X' (victim),

PW-4, Anjan Barman,
PW-5, Dwipen Barman,
PW-6, Ani Barman,

PW-7, Bhaskar Kalita (I/O).

B. Defence witness
NIL

C. Prosecution Exhibits
Ext-1, Medical report,
Ext-2, X-ray report,
Ext-3 laboratory report of vaginal swab,
Ext-4 Ejahar,
Ext-5 Seizure list of chappal,
Ext-6 statement of victim u/s-164 CrPC;
Ext-7, Seizure list of cloth;
Ext-8, Seizure list of birth certificate of victim;
Ext-9, sketch map of the place of occurrence;
Ext-10 charge-sheet.

D. Defence Exhibit
Nil.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Nalbari

Special (P) Case No:8/16 13 of 13
