IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017
(G.R. Case No. 66 of 2017)
Jengraimukh P.S. Case No. 21 of 2017

Committing Magistrate:-

Md. F.U. Choudhury,

The then Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate [M],
Majuli,

Jorhat District

State of Assam

-Versus-

Md. Hassan Ali Mollah,

Son of Late J. Ali Mollah,

Resident of Bhalukmari,

P.S. Lakhipur,

District-Goalpara.

State-Assam. ... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat.

For the Accused: Sri Bambeswar Barua, Learned Counsel, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 366 [A] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM

SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Date of Charge : 17-07-2017
Date of prosecution evidence : 10-08-2017; 06-09-2017; 20-09-2017;

31-10-2017; 21-11-2017 & 01-02-2018

 

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 02-08-2018
Date of Argument : 04-10-2018 & 02-11-2018
Date of Conviction : 12-11-2018
Date of Sentence Hearing : 14-11-2018

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Jengraimukh P.S. Case
No. 21/2017 under Section 366 [A] of IPC was registered on the basis of a
F.I.R. lodged by Sri Anil Saikia, father of the victim girl [hereinafter to be
referred as [X].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 30/04/2017 [Exhibit-2], the
informant Sri Anil Saikia [PW-3] who is the father of the victim girl [X] alleged,
inter-alia, that on 29/04/2017 at about 1.00 P.M. afternoon while his minor
daughter was returning back home attending her school, at that time one
unknown person kidnapped his minor daughter. Later on, he came to know that
accused Md. Hassan Ali Mollah, who is a resident of Goalpara district, under
Lakhipur P.S., had kidnapped his minor daughter, when she was returning back
home from her school.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the then Officer-in-charge,
Jengraimukh P.S., the same was registered as Jengraimukh P.S. Case No.
21/2017 under Section 366 [A] of IPC.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was recovered
from the possession of accused. The victim was sent for her medico-legal
examination as well as to the court for recording her statement under Section
164 of Cr.P.C. Police on completion of investigation filed charge-sheet in the case
against the above named accused Md. Hassan Ali Mollah u/S. 366 [A] of IPC vide
Charge-sheet No. 18/2017 dated 26/06/2017.

2). The then learned Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate [M], Majuli,
District-Jorhat after furnishing copies of the relevant documents to the accused
u/S. 207 of Cr.P.C., committed the case to this Court for trial.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the
prosecution in this behalf, I found ground for presuming that the accused has
committed offences under Section 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Accordingly, charges

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017
were framed, read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 10 [ten] numbers of witnesses including
the victim, her parent, Medical Officer and the I.O. were examined on behalf of
the prosecution to prove the charge u/S. 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 against the accused.
On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that he has been
falsely implicated in the case. It is his further submission that on the relevant day

he did not kidnap the victim girl, as alleged. The accused pleaded innocence.

5). I have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor
for the State as well as Sri Bambeswar Barua, learned Defence Counsel for the
accused.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on or about 29/04/2017 at about 1.00 P.M. afternoon,
the accused named-above induced the victim girl while she was
returning back home from her school, to go with him or to do
any act, or acts with the intent that she may be or knowing that
it is likely that she will be forced [or seduced] to illicit
intercourse with another person and thereby committed an
offence punishable under Section 366 [A] of IPC?

2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused named above
committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl and
thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7). First of all, let us see what the relevant provisions of law states to

which accused has been charged in this case.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017
Section-366 [A] — Procuration of minor girl-Whoever, by any means
whatsoever, induces any minor girl under the age of eighteen years to
go from any place or to do any act with intent that such girl may be, or
knowing that it is likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse with another person shall be punishable with imprisonment

which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Section-4 — Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to

imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

8). To decide the above points and sections of law, let us examine,
analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses along with the relevant
documents.

[PW-1] is the victim of the instant case. This witness during her
testimony divulged that on 29/04/2017 she came out of her house to attend her
class in the school. At that time she was riding her bicycle. The accused followed
her and threatened her that if she raises hue and cry the accused will assault and
cut her. Thereafter, the accused took her towards Lakhimpur. It is her version
that accused also took her towards Guwahati in a bus. When they got down from
the bus, police caught both of them. She further stated that she was not in her
sense when the accused took her alongwith him. She was medically examined by
a doctor, produced before a Magistrate for recording her statement under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. which she exhibited as Exhibit-1 and her signatures thereon
as Exhibit-1 [1] to Exhibit-1 [4]. PW-1 also deposed that accused used to work in
the house of his uncle by the name of Prasenjit Dey. She came to know the
name of accused as H. Ali Mollah, only after police caught him.

During cross-examination by defence side, she stated that on the date
of incident she alongwith the accused kept their bicycle near a tree and she does
not know whether police had taken the cycles or not. She had love affair with the

accused whose name was Pranjit Dey. She admitted that she did not try to jump

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017
from the cycle or the bus while accused was taking her with him. She did not
lodge any complaint to the passengers of the Magic vehicle as well as bus etc.

She denied all the defence suggestions put to her during cross-examination.

9). Smt. Rumi Saikia [PW-2] who is the mother of victim of the case,
in her evidence, stated that on the date of incident her daughter did not return
back home after attending her class in the school. The friend of her victim
daughter returned back home. On being asked the friend of her daughter
divulged that her daughter was not present in the school. Thereafter, she
informed the matter to her husband who, in turn, went to the school to enquire
about the victim where he came to know that her daughter had gone with a boy.
Then her husband lodged ejahar before police. Next day her daughter was
recovered by police.

During cross-examination, she stated that on the date of incident she
was informed by the friend of her daughter that her daughter did not go to the
school on the relevant day. Her daughter went to school by cycle which was
brought by them from the Chari-Ali. She admitted that she did not notice any
injury over the body of her daughter. She denied defence suggestion that her

daughter is seventeen years of age.

10). PW-3 is Sri Anil Saikia who is the father of victim-cum-informant of
the case. He deposed alike as that of his ejahar. It is further stated by this
witness that, on the next day morning, he received call from police of Guwahati.
Police recovered his daughter alongwith the accused. He then went towards
Guwahati and from there he brought his daughter to Jengraimukh P.S. It is
further version of this witness that police seized the birth certificate of his
daughter vide seizure-list [Exhibit-3] wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is his signature. He
also exhibited the birth certificate in the court as Material Exhibit-1. His daughter
was sent to the court for recording statement by the learned Magistrate under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. Later on, the victim was handed over to him.

This witness during cross-examination stated that he lodged ejahar

before police on the next day of incident. He did not notice any injury over the

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017
body of his daughter [PW-1]. It is his further version that he cannot say whether
victim was in love with Prakhen Dey or the present accused.

Hence, the evidence of the father of victim that police seized the birth
certificate of his daughter vide Exhibit-3 could not be shaken by cross-

examination.

11). The evidence of Sri Binod Saikia [PW-4] who is the uncle of victim
deposed that he knew accused by the name of Pranjit. On the date of incident
his mother telephoned and informed him that victim was taken away by
someone. Then he enquired at the bus stand and also informed police regarding
missing of the victim [PW-1]. Police personnel arrived at Guwahati ISBT
wherefrom the victim was recovered from the possession of accused. Both victim
as well as accused were brought back to Jengraimukh P.S. It is further version of
this witness that at the time of incident the accused was working as a mason in
the house of his uncle named Sri Jogeswar Saikia.

During cross-examination, he stated that he does not know anything
about the incident; that he knows the accused by the name of Pranjit and he
cannot say as to whether accused Hassan Ali Mollah or Pranjit Dey took the
victim with him on the relevant day. It is further version of this witness that he
did not state before police that present accused took the victim alongwith him on

the date of incident.

12). Sri Ramesh Kalita [PW-5] deposed that he was present when
police seized the birth certificate of the victim girl vide Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-3
[2] is his signature.

This witness during cross-examination stated that he signed the

seizure-list at the house of the victim girl. But he was not shown any document.

13). Sri Pradip Saikia [PW-6] who is mason by profession stated that
the accused used to work as mason in the third house from his house. He does
not know the victim girl of the instant case. On the date of incident, at about
4.00 P.M., he received information that victim girl went to the school but she did

not return back home. Accordingly, he collected the phone number from his

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017
nephew Utpal Saikia who told him the number of the super bus and the accused
alongwith the victim were caught by police at Guwahati.
During cross-examination, this witness stated that he was told that

one mason had kidnapped a girl but he did not witness the incident himself.

14). Evidence of Dr. Meerajul Hazarika [PW-7] is to the effect that on
03/05/2017 he examined the victim girl on police requisition. He advised for X-
ray test upon the victim girl.

During cross-examination, the doctor stated that age of the patient

was below 18 [eighteen] years approximately.

15). Sri Hema Kanta Nath [PW-8] who is the I.O. of the case deposed
that on 30/04/2017 he was posted at Jengraimukh P.S. as Attached Officer. On
that day the then Officer-in-charge, Jengraimukh P.S. received ejahar from the
informant. Accordingly, a case was registered and he was entrusted with the
charge of investigation. He visited the place of occurrence and drew Sketch Map
of the place of occurrence with index vide Exhibit-5 wherein Exhibit-5 [1] is his
signature. The I.O. further stated that he recorded statement of witnesses who
were acquainted with the fact and circumstance of the case. He received
information that victim girl had been traced out at ISBT, Guwahati alongwith the
accused of this case. Accordingly, he went to Guwahati and brought both the
victim as well as accused to Jengraimukh P.S. He recorded statement of the
victim, sent her before a doctor for medico legal check-up and thereafter the
victim was produced before the court for recording statement by the Magistrate
under Section 164 Cr.P.C. On completion of investigation, he handed over the
case diary to the O/C, Jengraimukh P.S. who, later on, submitted charge-sheet in
the instant case vide Exhibit-6 wherein Exhibit-6 [1] is the signature of the then
Officer-in-charge, Jengraimukh P.S., which he knows.

During cross-examination by defence side, the I.O. stated that when
he recorded statement of the victim she told before him that she loved Pranjit
Dey. Initially, the accused told his name as Pranjit Dey. However, victim did not
utter the name of accused as Hassan Ali Mollah during her statement under

Section 161 Cr.P.C. He did not seize the bicycles of victim as well as accused

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017
before both of them left Majuli. Further, he did not seize any wearing apparel of
the victim. He denied defence suggestion that victim gave her statement before

the Magistrate as per his dictation.

16). Md. Iman Shah, Homeguard of Police [PW-9] divulged that on
30/04/2017 he was working at ISBT, Guwahati and was conducting search. On
suspicion, he searched the accused alongwith one girl. Thereafter, he took both
of them to the police station. On being asked, they found discrepancies in the
names of accused as well as victim. So, they handed over both accused as well
as victim to the ISBT Police O.P.

During cross-examination by defence side he stated that he caught
the present accused on the date of incident whose name is Hassan Ali. He denied

defence suggestion that he caught the accused on suspicion only.

17). Same sort of evidence is tendered by Sri Ratan Das, Homeguard of
Police [PW-10].

18). Sri Bambeswar Barua, learned counsel for accused has strenuously
submitted that the victim at the time of incident was above 18 years and
considering the fact and circumstance of the case, the victim was a consenting
party. Furthermore, the prosecution has failed to prove the charges, brought
against the accused, beyond all reasonable doubt and as such, the accused is

liable to be acquitted in the instant case.

19). Controverting the said argument, advanced by the learned counsel
for the accused, Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Judge, Jorhat, has
submitted that the evidence, given by the victim herself and her parents clearly
indicates that the victim, at the time of occurrence was only fourteen years and
as such, the accused is liable to be convicted under Section 366-A IPC as well as
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

20). Having heard the learned counsel, appearing for both the parties, I

have carefully perused the evidence on record, more particularly, the statement

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017
of the victim [PW-1], who is the star witness of the instant case, that on
29/04/2017 she came out of her house to attend her class in the school. At that
time she was riding her bicycle. The accused followed her and threatened her
that if she raises hue and cry the accused will assault and cut her. Thereafter,
the accused took her towards Lakhimpur. It is her version that accused also took
her towards Guwahati in a bus. When they got down from the bus, police caught
both of them. She further stated that she was not in her sense when the accused
took her alongwith him. She was medically examined by a doctor, produced
before a Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. which
she exhibited as Exhibit-1 and her signatures thereon as Exhibit-1 [1] to Exhibit-1
[4]. She also deposed that she knew the accused by the name of Prasenjit Dey
and she came to know his real name only when police caught him.

During cross-examination by defence side, she stated that on the date
of incident she alongwith the accused kept their bicycle near a tree and she does
not know whether police had taken the cycles or not. He had love affair with the
accused whose name was Pranjit Dey. She admitted that she did not try to jump
from the cycle or the bus while accused was taking her with him. She did not
lodge any complaint to the passengers of the Magic vehicle as well as bus etc.

She denied all the defence suggestions put to her during cross-examination.

21). On perusal of the evidence of record it is seen that mother of the
victim [PW-2] as well as father of victim-cum-informant [PW-3] have
corroborated the version of their daughter, i.e., the victim [PW-1] in all material

particulars.

22). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C.
remained completely silent as to the version of the victim [PW-1]. He disclosed
that he had been falsely implicated in the instant case by the informant.

The plea taken by the accused is not going to affect the
prosecution case as defence side has not disputed the fact that accused took the
victim to Lakhimpur and thereafter towards Guwahati where they were arrested

by police of ISBT, Guwahati.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017
10

23). In the present case, birth certificate of the victim was seized by the
I.0. Sri Hema Kanta Nath [PW-8] as is revealed from evidence of Sri Anil Saikia
[PW-3], father of the victim girl-cum-informant of the case who exhibited the
seizure-list vide Exhibit-3. The informant also exhibited the birth certificate in the
Court vide Material Exhibit-1. Defence did not question anything before this
witness that the aforesaid birth certificate of the victim was a forged one.
Moreover, the victim in her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
also stated her age to be 13 [fifteen] years, which she made before learned
Magistrate on 02/05/2017, after her recovery with the accused. Keeping the
consistency of the victim while deposing before this court as PW-1 on
10/08/2018 also stated her age as 14 [fourteen] years. So, there is consistency
in the evidence of witnesses including victim that she was aged 14 [fourteen]
years at the time of incident and she was a child. There is nothing on record to
create a doubt about the bone/medical age of the victim child as determined by
the Medical Officer as she was not cross-examined by the defence on this aspect.
Defence side could not shake the evidence in the cross-examination of PW-2 &
PW-3. It is also seen from the medico legal report of victim [Exhibit-4] conducted
by Dr. Meerajul Hazarika [PW-7] where the doctor opined the age of victim as
below 18 [eighteen] years approximately on the date of examination, i.e., on
03/05/2017. Moreover, the birth certificate [Material Exhibit-1 which was proved
in original] clearly shows the date of birth of victim as 31/08/2003.
Hence, the victim is found to be below 18 [eighteen] years of age at

the time of incident.

24). It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole evidence of a
child witness is permissible, if such witness is found competent to testify and the
court, after careful scrutiny of its evidence.

In the case of Datttu Ramrao Sakhare-versus-State of
Maharashtra, reported in [1997] 5 SCC 341, the Hon’ble Apex Court has held
that — “A child witness if found competent to depose to the facts and
reliable one, such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other
words, even in the absence of oath, the evidence of a child witness can

be considered under Section 118 of Indian Evidence Act, provided that

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017

10
11

such witness is able to understand the questions and able to give
rational answers thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility
thereof would depend upon the circumstance of each case. The only
precaution which the court should bear in mind while assessing the
evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be reliable one and
his/her demeanor must be like any other competent witness and there

is no likelihood of being tutored”.

25). In another case, i.e., Pancchi —versus- State of Uttar Pradesh,
AIR 1998 SC 2726, the Hon’ble Apex Court has held that — “It is not the law
that if a witness is a child, his/her evidence shall be rejected, even if it
is found reliable, The law is that evidence of a child witness must be
evaluated more carefully and with greater circumspection because a
child is susceptible to be swayed by what others tell them and this child

witness is easy prey to tutoring”.

26). The ratio as laid down in the above case is that the testimony of a
child witness is attributed the same kind of credibility that it attached to the
statement of any other witness if the testimony is consistent.

In the present case, the victim has been consistent on the material
particulars with regard to the incident which is supported by her mother [PW-2],
her father-cum-informant [PW-3] and independent witness Sri Pradip Saikia [PW-
6].

27). Learned counsel for the accused, in his argument, stated that victim
accompanied the accused voluntarily, so accused cannot be convicted for
kidnapping.
In the case of Parshotam Lal-versus-State of Punjab, (2010)
1 SCC 65, it has been held by Hon’ble Apex Court in its judgment as follows
“That if the girl kidnapped is below 18 years, consent is
immaterial for the offence to be made out. It is just more than a

technical offence”.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017

11
12

28). In another case, i.e., Moniram Hazarika-versus-State of
Assam, (2004) 5 SCC 120, it has been held by Hon’ble Supreme Court in its
judgment that “prosecutrix was a minor at that time when she was taken
away from her lawful guardian. But the defence contended that both
the appellant and the victim [PW-2] were in love for a number of years
prior to the date of the incident and she voluntarily and willingly went
with him therefore, even though she is a minor, since there was no
enticement or taking away as contemplated under Section 361 of IPC.
It is also contended that even a minor has every right to abandon the
house of the guardian and go to any place of his or her choice and there
is no legal obligation on the person to whose place such minor goes to
restore back the minor to the custody of the legal guardian. Rejecting
the argument Supreme Court held that the material on record shows
that there was a promise of marriage made to PW-2 which amounts to
enticement of a minor because of which she had left the house of her

lawful guardian”.

29). On appreciation of the evidence on record as well as other facts and
circumstances of the case, it is found that there is allegation of kidnapping of the
victim girl by the accused. The parents of the victim [PW-2] and [PW-3] divulged
that on the date of incident their daughter went on missing from the way to
home from school. Similarly, the victim girl has narrated the facts in detail. Victim
in her evidence-in-chief clearly stated that accused came to the road in a bicycle
and threatened her that if she raises hue and cry then he will assault and cut
her, which clearly amounts to enticement of a minor under 18 [eighteen] years

of age, for keeping out of lawful guardianship of the minor victim.
30). From the facts and evidence of witnesses it appears that prosecution
side has been able to prove the case against the accused under Section 363 of

IPC instead of case under Section 366-A of IPC.

31). The essential ingredients of the offence under Section 361 are as

follows:

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017

12
13

1) The accused took or enticed away a minor or a person of
unsound mind;

2) Such minor, if male, must be under 10 years of age and, if
female, under 18 years of age;

3) The act must be one of taking or enticing out of the keeping of
the lawful guardian of such minor or person of unsound mind;

4) The act of taking or enticing away must be done without consent

of the lawful guardian.

32). In the case of State-versus-Rajaram, AIR 1973 SC 819, it has
been held by Hon’ble Apex Court that “the object of Section 361 IPC is to
protect the minor children from being seduced for illicit intercourse and
also to protect the rights and privileges of guardians having lawful
custody of their wards”.

In another case, i.e., Parkash-versus-State, AIR 2004 SC 227,
it has been held by Hon’ble Supreme Court that “the gravamen of the offence
under Section 361 lies in the taking or enticing of a minor under the
ages specified in the section, out of the keeping of the lawful guardian
without the consent of such guardian”.

The Hon’ble Apex Court in the case of State of Haryana-versus-
Rajaram, AIR 1973 SC 819, has held that “kidnapping within the
meaning of this section is affected not only by taking or enticing away
a person but also by alluring such person to go away from the

protection of the guardian”.

33). In view of the above discussion, I am of the considered view that
prosecution has considerably been able to prove the case of kidnapping against
accused Md. Hassan Ali Mollah which is punishable under Section 363 of IPC.
Hence the accused is convicted there under.

It may be mentioned herein that accused was charged under
Section 366-A of IPC which is a graver charge than offence under Sections

361/363 of IPC. Hence, in my considered opinion, the conviction of accused

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017

13
14

under Section 363 IPC is not going to prejudice the accused in any way, in
defending himself, in this case.

On scrutinizing the evidence on record, it is seen that no case has
been made out against accused Md. Hassan Ali Mollah under Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, as victim nowhere stated
in her evidence that accused indulged in sexual intercourse with her. Moreover,
Medical Officer [PW-7] also did not find any evidence of recent sexual intercourse
on the person of victim or evidence of injury or violence mark on her person as
per medical examination report [Exhibit-4]. Victim did not specifically narrate as
to the manner in which rape was committed on her person and there is no
evidence at all whether the rape, she means, was in-fact, a penetrating sexual
intercourse or not. Prosecution has not been able to make out a case against the
accused Md. Hassan Ali Mollah under the aforesaid section of law beyond
reasonable doubt, for which, I am of the opinion that the accused is entitled to

acquittal under benefit of doubt which I accordingly do.

Sessions Judge, Jorhat

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017

14
15

Date:- 14-11-2018

SENTENCE HEARING
34). Accused Md. Hassan Ali Mollah is heard on the point of sentence.
The accused has submitted that he resides with his ailing mother and there is
none to look after her in his absence. He further submitted that if he is sent to
jail hajot, then his family will be destroyed. Hence, the accused prayed for

leniency. There is no other criminal case pending against me.

35). I have heard Sri Bambeswar Barua, learned Defence Counsel for
the accused as well as Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor,
Jorhat.

The accused in this case kidnapped a minor girl by telling his
name and religion falsely to her. He would have ruined her life if police did not
caught him. Hence, I do not want to treat him leniently.

So, considering all aspects, accused Md. Hassan Ali Mollah is
sentenced to undergo RIGOROUS IMPRISONMENT for 05 [five] years and
also to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- [Rupees Ten Thousand], in-default of
payment of fine, to suffer RIGOROUS IMPRISONMENT for 03 [three]
months under Section 363 of IPC.

The period of detention already undergone by the accused
during investigation and trial shall be set off from the period of imprisonment
imposed on him under Section 428 Cr.P.C.

The accused is acquitted from the charge under Section 4 of
The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, as well as Section
366-A of IPC, as said, hereinbefore, under benefit of doubt.

36). Free copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused immediately.
Another copy of this judgment be sent to the learned District
Magistrate, Jorhat under Section 365 Cr.P.C.

37). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 14th day of
November 2018.
Special Judge, Jorhat.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017

15
16

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW-1 Victim.
PW-2 Smt. Rumi Saikia, mother of victim.
PW-3 Sri Anil Saikia, father of victim-cum-informant.
PW-4 Sri Binod Saikia, uncle of victim.
PW-5 Sri Ramesh Kalita, businessman.
PW-6 Sri Pradip Saikia, mason.
PW-7 Dr. Merajul Hazarika who examined the victim.
PW-8 Sri Hema Kanta Nath, A.S.I. of police.
PW-9 Md. Iman Shah, Homeguard.
PW-10 Sri Ratan Das, Homeguard.
COURT WITNESS:- NIL
EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Statement of victim girl recorded by the Magistrate
under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Seizure-list

Exhibit-4 Medico legal report of victim

Exhibit-5 Sketch Map of the site of occurrence with index

Exhibit-6 Charge-sheet

 

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NIL

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO.

63 OF 2017 16
SPECIAL CASE NO. 63 OF 2017

17

17
