Page 1 of 5

 

DISTRICT- CHARAIDEO.
IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE: CHARAIDEO: SONARI
Present:- Syed Imdadur Rahman, AJS.

SPECIAL JUDGE

The 10" day of June, 2019.

SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 02 OF 2019

Under Section

8 of the Protection of Children

from Sexual offences A 2012.

State of Assam
-Versus-
Sri Kishore Murari

ee ee Accused Person.

This case was taken up for final hearing on 29.05.2019 in the presence of

Sri Basanta Gogpoi.............. Advocate for prosecution side.
Sri Krisna Konwat..seeecssescecssess. Advocate of the accused,
F.I.R was lodged on sceatiisss § 20.10.2018,
Charge framed on siitssises: 02.04.2019.
Argument Heard on scetiisss: §=29,05,2019.
Judgment Delivered on s:::::::::: 10.06.2019.
C
Special Judge

Charaideo, Sona:.
Page 2 of 5

 

J MENT

In this case the accused person is facing
trial under section 8 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

1. The case of the prosecution is that, on 19/10/2018 at 03:30 P.M, while the
sister of the informant and one of her friend were coming towards Rangabri, then,

the accused tried to harass them, sexually.

2. Later on, after lodging of the ‘ejahar’ of this case by the informant, a case
was registered in this regard, before the Borhat Police station, bearing its P.S case
no 44/18. Police after investigation forwarded charge sheet U/S 8 of the Protection
of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 read with section 324 LP.C against the
accused person. Thereafter, case was committed and charge U/S 8 of the POCSO
Act, 2012 was framed. The charge was read over and explained to the accused
person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Prosecution

examined three witnesses.

3 The accused person was examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C, where he denied the
case of the prosecution. The accused person examined no witness. ] have heard

arguments put forwarded by both sides.

4. Points For Determination in this case are:-
i) Whether the accused on 19/10/2018, at 03:30 A.M. committed sexual
assault on the sister of the informant and her friend, who was a minor at that time?

5. DISCUSSION DECISION AND REASONS FOR THE DECISION :

Let us now, discuss evidences on record, concerning the point for
determination of this case. In this case one of the alleged victim was examined as
P.W2; the P.W2 in her evidence deposed that, on the day of last ‘Durga Puja’, they
went with the accused to see the idol. That, her brother lodged this case in vain. In

n~
a Speciat Jucge
Charaideo, Sonar;
Page 3 of 5

 

the cross examination this P.W deposed that, nothing happened. That, accused may

be acquitted.

6. In this case the other most material witness is the C.W.1 i.e. being, one of
the alleged victim of this case. She in her evidence deposed that, the incident
occurred in the year 2018. That, they were going towards their sister’s house and
accused accompanied them. That, her brother lodged the case as he saw the
accused accompanied them. In the cross-examination this P.W, deposed that, no

incident took place. That, accused has no guilt.

7. The P.W 1 is the informant of this case. He in evidence deposed that, the
incident took place in Last ‘Durga Puja’. In the cross examination this P.W deposed

that, no incident took place as mentioned in the ‘ejahar’.

8, Here, in this case the accused is facing trial primarily under the Protection of
children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

Section 29 of the act is as follows:- Where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
section 3,5,7 and Section 9 of this act, the Special Court shall presume,
that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is proved. Here as per the
procedural law the trial court shall presume the accused guilty of the

offence he is facing trial, unless disproved by him.

Section 4 of the Indian Evidence act 1872 defines the term “shall
Presume” as follows :- Whenever it is directed by this act that the court
shall presume a fact, it shall regard such fact as proved, unless and until it

is disproved.
Now, behind this background, we have to come to a conclusion in this case.

9. I have scrutinized evidences of the witnesses of this case and found the

followings :::

Sv
Special Judge
Charaideo, Sonari
Page 4 of 5

 

a) Victimgnever adduced any evidence which may attract any of the points

for determination, neither the informant.

b) The informant failed to Support the F.I.R he lodged. The informant never
adduced any evidence which specifically corroborated either the evidence of
the alleged victim or the case of the prosecution. All material witnesses in
their cross examination deposed that, no incident took place. Both alleged

victims deposed that accused has no guilt.

10. Here in this case the accused is facing trial under section 8 of the P.O.C.S.0
act, but the discussions made above shows that there is no evidence on record
basing on which, prosecution can bring home the charge against the accused,
rather through the cross examination of P.Ws, accused disproved the prosecution
case. Here alleged victims themselves failed to support the case of the Prosecution.
Here the alleged victim even failed to support the statement she made under
section 164 Cr.P.C.

11, I have considered the evidences on record, which includes the evidence of
the prosecutrix and I find that, there is no iota of evidence to bring the accused
person within the ambit of section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012 as the accused

disproved the prosecution case.

12. This being the position of this case, in opinion of this court, prosecution has
failed to prove the case against the accused person and accordingly the accused Sri
Kishore Murari is acquitted from the offences he is facing trial. He is set at liberty
forth with. Bail bond executed by the accused is extended as per provision 437(A)
Cr.P.C. In opinion of this court there is no circumstance to invoke section 357(A) of
Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 10% day of June 2019,
Su
916 |
(S.I.Rahman)

ae rae thease

Charaideo, Sonari
Page 5 of 5

 

Prosecution Witnesses,
SI. 1---- Prosecution Witness 1 ---Sri Iliyas Lagun.
SI. 2---- Prosecution Witness 2 & Gl4-The alleged victims.

 

Prosecution Exhibits.
Sl]. 1---- Ejahar

SI. 1(1)- Signature of the informant i.e. P.W1.

Defence witness.
Nil.

Defence Exhibit.

Nil

wnt
aw el jal
(S.I.Rahman)
Additi ed ge

Charale 80, Sone

 
