DISTRICT: DHUBRI
IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHUBRI

PRESENT: Shri A. Chakravarty, M.A., LL.M., AJS

Special Case No. 14 of 2016

U/S 366(A)/376 IPC r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act, corresponding to
G.R. Case No. 487/2016

State of Assam

nanen Complainant
Versus

Abu TaherProdhani

... Accused
Charge framed on : 10-08-2016
Evidence recorded on : 16-09-2016, 03-11-2016and 07-12-2016
Statement recorded on — : 17-02-2017
Arguments heard on : 09-03-2017

Judgment deliveredon : 22-03-2017

Advocates who appeared in this case are:
ShriManiruzZaman, P.P. for the Prosecution

ShriShafiqulHoqueProdhani, Advocate, for the Defence

JUDGMENT

1. This case was registered on 05-02-2016, at Golakganj Police Station, under
section 366(A) of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short “the IPC”) and Section 4 of
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short “the POCSO Act”),
based on a first information report (in short “FIR”)filed by the prosecutrix against

accused TaherProdhani.
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

2. The case of the prosecution, as stated in the FIRis that in the evening of 15-
01-2016, at Chagolia Part-II, the accused TaherProdhani called the prosecutrixover
phone and when the prosecutrixmet him, he gagged her by means ofa piece of black
cloth and took her away to a lonely place and repeatedly raped her. Thereafter,
proclaiming himself to be a Hindu boy, the accused married the prosecutrix. After
the marriage, the prosecutrixdiscovered that the accused is a Muslim boy. Then the
prosecutrixsomehow persuadedthe accused to take her to her parental home and
the accused also took her to her parental home. Thereafter, the prosecutrix filed the
instant FIR against the accused with the Chagolia Police Outpost on 05-02-2016.

3. On receiving the FIR, the In-Charge of the Chagolia Police Outpost entered it
in the General Diary Book of the Outpost vide entry No.105, dated 05-02-2016 and
forwarded the FI.R. to the Officer In-charge of the Golokganj Police Station for

registration of a case. He also started investigationin anticipation.

4. Based on the FIR, the Officer In-charge of the Golokganj Police Station
registered the case No. 90/2016, for commission of offences punishable under
section366(A) IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Actagainstthe accused
TaherProdhaniand entrusted the ASI of Police A. Talukdarto investigate the case.
Accordingly, ASI of Police A. Talukdarinvestigated the case. During the course of
investigation,the prosecutrix was medically examined. Her statement was recorded
by the Magistrate under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(hereinafter referred to as “the Cr.P.C.”). Statements of several witnesses were also
recorded and after completion of investigation, a charge sheet was filed for
commission of offencespunishable under section 366(A) IPC, r/w section 4 of the
POCSO Act against the accused Abu TaherProdhani @ TaherProdhaniin this Court as
the offences under the POCSO Act aretriable by the Special Court and this Court has
been designated as the Special Court to try offences under the POCSO act.

5. During trial, my learned predecessor framed charges under sections366(A),
376 IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused person. When the
contents of the chargeswere read over and explained to the accused, he pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

6. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined seven witnesses. The

accused did not examine any witness.

7. In his examination under section 313 Cr.P.C., the accused has denied the
prosecution case and has stated that the allegations levelled against him are false

and baseless.

8. The points for determination in this case are:-
I)Whether on 15-01-2016, at Chagolia Part-II, under Golakganj Police
Station, the accused Abu TaherProdhani @ TaherProdhani, kidnapped the

prosecutrix?

IT)Whether after kidnapping the prosecutrix, who was a child under eighteen
years of age, the accused Abu TaherProdhani @ TaherProdhanicommitted

penetrative sexual assault on her?

II)Whether after kidnapping the prosecutrix the accused Abu TaherProdhani

@ TaherProdhanicommitted rape on her?
If so, what punishment he deserves?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

9. I have carefully examined the evidence on record, gone through the relevant
documents on record and after hearing the arguments advanced by the learned

counsels for both the sides give my decision on the above points as follows:-

POINT NOS. I&II

10. These two points are relating to crime against child less than eighteen years

of age. Hence, both these points are discussed and decided jointly.

11.The prosecutrix(PW-5), has deposed that she knows the accused. The accused
expressed his intention to talk to her over phone. On the day of the alleged incident,
along with her friend Lakshmi,she went to witness “Ka// Puja’. On the way, at an

isolated place, the accused met them and asked her to go with him on his two

3
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

wheeler. When she refused, the accused covered her face by means of a black cloth
at knife pointand took her away to some unknown place. Thereafter, she was taken
to Guwahati in a train. She was kept at a house ona hill top. There, the accused
raped her. The accused told her that his name is Joy Roy. After reaching the house
of the accused, she came to know that the accused is a Muslim boy. She then
refused to live with the accused and returned to her parental home. Thereafter, she
lodged the FIR of this case. Ext-1 is the said FIR and ext-1 (1) is her signature
therein. During the course of investigation, her statement was recorded by the
Magistrate under section 164 Cr.P.C. The ext-2 is her said statement and ext-2 (1), 2

(2) and 2 (3) are her signatures therein.

12. In the cross-examination, she has stated that she has read up to class-VII.
Thereafter, she did not pursue studies.Prior to the said incident, for twenty days, she
was in constant touch with the accused. They got down from the train at the
Guwahati railway station. There was a large crowd at the railway station, but she did
not raise alarm. Thereafter, they travelled in a city bus and went to a house on a hill
top. She has denied the suggestion that she had love affair with the accused and as
the accused belonged to a different religion, the members of her family and AKRASU
(a student union) did not accept her relation with the accused and hence, she has
refused to marry the accused. She has also denied the suggestion that the accused
never concealed his identity. This is admission by the defence that the accused had
taken away theprosecutrix. After three months of the said incident, she has married
another person. She has denied the suggestion that she has not attained the age of

marriage.

13. | PW-1 Narayan Roy, the father of theprosecutrixhas deposed that he knows
the accused. One day, the prosecutrixwent to witness "Ka/i Puja’ Thereafter, she
went missing. At that time she was 16 years old. The prosecutrix went with one Joy

and came back with Joy Roy. She was staying with him.

14. In the cross-examination, he has stated that he has since married off the
prosecutrix. The prosecutrix had talked with him before returning to his house. She

came back after twenty days from the day she went missing. He did not lodge any

4
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

missing report with the police. He does not know the accused. He has denied the

suggestion that at the time of the alleged occurrence, the prosecutrix was major.

15. | PW-2 Dipak Roy has deposed that theprosecutrix is his neighbour. Hearing a
hue and cry, he went to the house of the prosecutrix and learnt that the prosecutrix
was missing. She was taken away by the accused. The police came and took away
the prosecutrix and the accused. At the relevant time, the prosecutrix was about 13

years old.

16. In the cross-examination he has stated that on presumption, he has stated

that at the relevant time, the prosecutrix was 13 years of old.

17. PW-3 AjitSarkar has deposed that he knows the accused and the prosecutrix.
The prosecutrix is his neighbour. The accused had taken away the prosecutrix. The

police took away the prosecutirx and the accused from the house of the prosecutrix.

18. In the cross-examination, he has stated that the parents of the prosecutrix
did not tell him that the prosecutrix and the accused had an affair. He does not know

if prior to the said incident, the prosecutrix had affair with the accused.

19. PW-4 ShriShyamal Roy has deposed that the prosecutrix lives a few houses
away from his house. One day,he saw a large crowd at the house of the prosecutrix.
He also saw police personnel there. He heard that one boy had taken away the
prosecutrix. He does not know the name of the boy. The police took away the

prosecutrix and the accused.

20. Inthe cross-examination, he has stated that he was not in visiting terms with
the members of the family of the prosecutrix. The members of the family of the

prosecutrix did not tell him that the prosecutrix was missing.

21. PW-6 Dr. (Mrs.) Rinku Ahmed, the Medical Officer who had examined the
prosecutrix has deposed that she did not find any proof of commission of recent

sexual intercourse on the prosecutrix. Ext-3 is the medical report prepared by her.
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

22. In the cross examination, she has stated that the prosecutrix did not tell her
that she was raped. She referred the prosecutrix to the Radiologist for determination
of age, but the same is not mentioned in the medical report prepared by her. She is
not sure about the age of the prosecutrix mentioned in the ext-3.

23. | PW-7ASI AmarendraTalukdar, the Investigating Officer is a formal witness of

the case.

24.It can be seen from the above discussion that though the Investigating Officer
has filed the charge sheet against the accused under section 366 (A) IPC and section
4 of the POCSO Act, he did not make any attempt to establish that at the relevant
time, the prosecutrix was less than eighteen years of age. The prosecutrix has
stated that she has read up to Class-VII. Therefore, the Investigating Officer should
have collected the school certificate of the prosecutrix to ascertain her age. Further,
as the prosecutrix was sent for medical examination, the Investigating Officer should
have asked the Medical Officer to ascertain her age by conducting necessary medical
tests. But, he did not do so. Therefore, though in the FIR, in the statement recorded
under Section 164 Cr.P.C., in the ext-3 medical report and in her deposition recorded
by my learned predecessor, the prosecutrix has stated that at the relevant time, her
age was about sixteen years, in the absence of any document like birth certificate,
school certificate, medical report etc., to prove the same, the age of the prosecutirx
cannot be held to be about sixteen years as in a criminal case the accused is entitled
to benefit for any lacuna in the prosecution case. Therefore, though at the time of
the commission of the alleged offence, the age of the prosecutrix was about sixteen
years, aS the prosecution did not prove the same, it must be held that the
prosecutrix was above eighteen years of age and as such, the accused cannot be
held guilty of committing the offence of kidnapping punishable under Section 366
(A) IPC and penetrative sexual assault under section 4 of the POCSO Act. Thepoint

Nos. I & II are decided in the negative, accordingly.

POINT NO. III
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

25. The only question that remained to be answered now is whether the

accused has committed rape on the prosecutrix?

26. It can be gaugedfrom theabove discussion that the prosecutrixhad love affair
with the accused and she eloped with the accused. But, the said affaire was
developed as the accused misrepresented himself to be the Hindu boy Joy Roy and
not as the Muslim boy Abu TaherProdhani. In the cross-examination, the defence
merely suggested to the prosecutrixthat she had love affair with the accused and
that the accused never concealed his identity. But, the defence did not challenge the
prosecutrixin the cross-examination that the prosecutrixdid not go with one Joy Roy
and came back with Joy Roy. The defence suggested to the prosecutrix that she had
love affair with the accused and as the accused belonged to a different religion, the
members of her family and AKRASU (a student union) did not accept her relation
with the accused and hence, she has refused to marry the accused. The suggestions
cannot be accepted to be true. Because, the evidence on record does not support
the suggestions and accused did not adduce any positive evidence to prove the
suggestion. This is also an admission by the accused that he had taken away
theprosecutrix. The PW1 has also deposed that the prosecutrix had gone with Joy
and returned to his house with Joy Roy. Therefore, it is crystal clear that
misrepresenting himself to be a Hindu boy, the accused induced the prosecutrix to
go with him. Therefore, it can be safely held that had the prosecutrixknew that the
accused is not a Hindu boy, but is a Muslim boy; she would not have eloped with

him.

27.Section 376 of Indian Penal Code prescribes the punishment for the offence of
Rape. Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code defines the offence of Rape, and
enumerates six descriptions of the offence. The description "secondly" speaks of
Rape "without her Consent". Thus, sexual intercourse by a man with a woman
without her Consent will constitute the offence of Rape. Therefore, we have to
examine whether in the case in our hand, the accused is guilty of committing sexual
intercourse with the prosecutrix ‘against her Consent’. As can be seen from the

above discussion, in the instant case, the prosecutrix gave the consent believing the
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

accused to be a Hindu boy. When she discovered that the accused is not a Hindu

boy, she left his company and filed the FIR of the instant case.

28.Section 90 of the Indian Penal Code defines Consent known to be given under

‘fear or misconception’ which reads as under:

“90. Consent known to be given under fear or misconception - A Consent is not
such Consent as it intended by any section of this Code, if the Consent is given by a
person under fear of injury, or under a misconception of fact, and if the person
doing the act knows, or has reason to believe, that the Consent was given in

consequence of such fear or misconception...”

29.Thus, if Consent is given by the prosecutrix under a misconception of fact, it is
vitiated. In the instant case, the accused had sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix
misrepresenting himself to be a Hindu boy. Therefore, as the accused procured the
consent of the prosecutrix and had sexual relations with her misrepresenting himself
to be a Hindu boy, though he was a Muslim boy, the said act of the accused falls
under the definition of Rape as he had sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix with
her consent, which was obtained under a misconception of fact as defined under
section 90 of the Indian Penal Code. Thus, the alleged Consent said to have
obtained by the accused was not voluntary Consent and the accused indulged in
sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix by suppressing his true identity. This kind of
Consent taken by the accused misrepresenting himself to be a Hindu boy, though he
was a Muslim boy and persuading the prosecutrix to believe that he is a Hindu boy
and obtained her Consent for the sexual intercourse under that misconception
cannot be treated to be consent. Therefore, the accused must be held guilty of
committing the offence of Rape as he had obtained the Consent of the prosecutrix

fraudulently, under a misconception of fact.

30.In STATE OF U.P. Vs. NAUSHAD, reported in (2013) 14 SCALE 51,the Hon'ble
Supreme Court has held as follows:- “It appears that the intention of the accused as
per the testimony of PW1 was, right from the beginning, not honest and he kept on
promising that he will marry her, till she became pregnant. This kind of Consent

obtained by the accused cannot be said to be any Consent because she was under a

8
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

misconception of fact that the accused intends to marry her, therefore, she had
submitted to sexual intercourse with him. This fact is also admitted by the accused
that he had committed sexual intercourse which is apparent from the testimony of
PWs. 1, 2 and 3 and before Panchayat of elders of the village. It is more than clear
that the accused made a false promise that he would marry her. Therefore, the
intention of the accused right from the beginning was not bona fide and the poor girl
submitted to the lust of the accused completely being misled by the accused who
held out the promise for marriage. This kind of Consent taken by the accused with
clear intention not to fulfil the promise and persuaded the girl to believe that he is
going to marry her and obtained her Consent for the sexual intercourse under total

misconception, cannot be treated to be a Consent.”

31.The consent obtained in the case in our hand was similar in nature as the
accused obtained Consent of the prosecutrix for the sexual intercourse under a

misconception.

32.Now, therefore, we have to consider whether the accused can be convicted

based on the solitary testimony of the prosecutrix?

33.In RAMDAS AND OTHERS Vs. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA, reported in AIR
2007 SC 155; (2007) 2 SCC 170, the Hon’ble Supreme Court has held that, “It is
no doubt true that the Conviction in a Case of Rape can be Based Solely on the
Testimony of the Prosecutrix, but that can be done in a Case where the court is
convinced about the truthfulness of the prosecutrix and there exist no circumstances
which cast a shadow of doubt over her veracity. If the evidence of the prosecutrix is
of such quality that may be sufficient to sustain an order of Conviction Solely on the

basis of her Testimony.”

34.In the instant case, I find the evidence of the prosecutrix to be of quality
sufficient to sustain an order of conviction solely on the basis of her evidence. I find
the testimony of the prosecutrix to be trueand there exist no circumstance which

cast a shadow of doubt over the veracity of her testimony.

35.It is crystal clear from the testimony of the prosecutrix that the accused had the
knowledge of the fact that the prosecutrix had consented to have sexual intercourse

9
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

with him as a consequence of a misconception of fact that had arisen from his
misrepresentation as a Hindu Boy. Had it been known to the prosecutrix that the
accused was not a Hindu Boy but a Muslim boy, she perhaps would not have eloped
with the accused or consented to have sexual intercourse with him and also would
not have married him. Otherwise, she would not have filed the instant case against

the accused and would not have deposed against him and married another person.

36. In the result, from the facts and circumstances of the case and above
discussion, I hold that the prosecution has succeeded in bringing home the charge
under section 376 IPC against accused Abu TaherProdhani @ TaherProdhani beyond
all reasonable. But, the prosecution has failed to bring home the charges under
section 366 (A) IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused. Hence, I
hold the accused Abu TaherProdhani @ TaherProdhani guilty of committing an
offence punishable under section 376 IPC and convict him under the said section of
law and acquit him from the charges under section 366 (A) IPC and section 4 of the
POCSO Act. The point No. III is decided accordingly.

37. The Probation of Offenders Act is not applicable to a case under section 376
IPC. Hence the accused is not entitled to get the benefit of the ameliorative relief as

envisaged under the said Act.

38. Heard the convicted accused on the question of sentence. He has pleaded
leniency in awarding the punishment on the ground that he is a youth of about 21
years of age and is the sole bread earner of his father’s family. These are no grounds
for inflicting lesser sentence.The accused is not an innocent man inasmuch as he
had played with the religious sentiment of an innocent girl and committed the

alleged offence by concealing his religion.

39.INSTATE OF M.P. Vs. MADANLAL, reported in (2015) 7 SCC 681, the
Hon’ble Supreme Court has held that, “The aforesaid view was expressed while
dealing with the imposition of sentence. We would like to clearly state that in a case
of Rape or attempt of Rape, the conception of compromise under no circumstances
can really be thought of. These are crimes against the body of a woman which is her

own temple. These are offences which suffocate the breath of life and sully the

10
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

reputation. And reputation, needless to emphasise, is the richest jewel one can
conceive of in life. No one would allow it to be extinguished. When a human frame is
defiled, the "purest treasure", is lost. Dignity of a woman is a part of her non-
perishable and immortal self and no one should ever think of painting it in clay.
There cannot be a compromise or settlement as it would be against her honour
which matters the most. It is sacrosanct. Sometimes solace is given that the
perpetrator of the crime has acceded to enter into wedlock with her which is nothing
but putting pressure in an adroit manner; and we say with emphasis that the Courts
are to remain absolutely away from this subterfuge to adopt a soft approach to the
case, for any kind of liberal approach has to be put in the compartment of
spectacular error. Or to put it differently, it would be in the realm of a sanctuary of
error. We are compelled to say so as such an attitude reflects lack of sensibility
towards the dignity, the elan vital, of a woman. Any kind of liberal approach or
thought of mediation in this regard is thoroughly and completely sans legal

permissibility.”

“Respect for reputation of women in the society shows the basic civility of
a civilised society. No member of society can afford to conceive the idea that he can
create a hollow in the honour of a woman. Such thinking is not only lamentable but
also deplorable. It would not be an exaggeration to say that the thought of sullying
the physical frame of a woman is the demolition of the accepted civilised norm i.e.
"physical morality". In such a sphere, impetuosity has no room. The youthful
excitement has no place. It should be paramount in everyone's mind that, on the
one hand, society as a whole cannot preach from the pulpit about social, economic
and political equality of the sexes and, on the other, some perverted members of the
same society dehumanise the woman by attacking her body and ruining her chastity.
It is an assault on the individuality and inherent dignity of a woman with the mind-

set that she should be elegantly servile to men.”

40. In NAUSHAD (supra)the Hon’ble Supreme Court has held that, “A woman's
body is not a man's plaything and he cannot take advantage of it in order to satisfy

his lust and desires by fooling a woman into Consenting to sexual intercourse simply

11
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

because he wants to indulge in it. The accused in this case has committed the vile
act of Rape and deserves to be suitably punished for it.”

41.In view of the above, I deem it proper to punish the accused deterrently, to
deter him from committing such crime in future and to dissuade other such potential
offenders from committing such crime. Themaximum punishment prescribed by the

law is his just deserts.

ORDER

42. Considering the entire facts and circumstances of the case, I sentence the
accused Abu TaherProdhani @ TaherProdhani to undergo rigorous imprisonment for
life and to pay a fine of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees fifty thousand) only, in default to
undergo simple imprisonment for oneyear, for committing the offence under section
376 IPC, which, in my opinion, will meet the ends of justice in this case. The bail

bond of the accused stands cancelled.

43. Furnish a copy of the judgment to the convicted accused free of cost,

immediately.

44. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on this the 22™day of March,
2017, at Dhubri.

(A. Chakravarty) Special
Judge, Dhubri

Dictated & corrected by me.

(A. Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Dhubri

APPENDIX

12
Special Case No. 14 of 2016

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

PW-1 Narayan Roy

PW-2 Dipak Roy

PW-3 AjitSarkar

PW-4 Sri Shyamal Roy

PW-5 the prosecutrix

PW-6 Dr. (Mrs.) Rinku Ahmed

PW-7 ASI AmarendraTalukdar

2. PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:

Exhibit- 1 The FIR

Exhibit- 2 The statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
Exhibit-3 Medical report

Exhibit-4 Site Plan

Exhibit-5 Charge Sheet

(A.Chakravarty)

Special Judge, Dhubri

13
