PAGE:1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, NORTH SALMARA,

ABHAYAPURI

 

 

Present: Shri P. Bora, AJ.S.
Special Judge
North Salmara, Abhayapuri

Special (P) 15 (A) OF 2019
U/S 366(A) I.P.C & U/S 4 POCSO Act,2012

 

State of Assam

Vs

Md. Munnaf Ali
Appearance
Smti. R.Choudhury wo eeeeee Special PP. for the State.
Mr M, islam eee Ld. Defence Counsel,
Charge framedon  ~—.... 29.03.19
Evidence recorded on _ -------- 24.07.19
Argument heardon _~E__ -------- 07.08.19
Judgment pronounced on ------ 19.08.19

JUDGMENT

1 The case for the prosecution in brief is that on 26.08.2018, the
informant Md. Ramjan Ali lodged an FIR before the officer in charge of
Borghola Police Outpost alleging inter alia that on 23.08.2018, in
between 11:00 to 12:00 mid day while his 14 years old daughter was
on her way to the house of her relative, the accused person restrained
her and taken her by threatening her to a unknown place and rapped

her. Hence the case.

Contd...2
PAGE:2

2 After receiving the said FIR the officer-in-charge of Borghola
Outpost make a GDE vide G.D Entry No. 403 dated 26.08.2018, and
forwarded the same to the officer in charge of Abhayapuri police
Station for registering a case. Accordingly, after receiving the said
ejahar, the officer in charge of Abhayapuri police station was pleased
to register the same vide Abhayapuri PS case No. 485 dated
27.08.2018. Police started the investigation of this case and after
completion of the investigation, the investigating officer has submitted
charge sheet U/S 366(A) I.P.C R/W Sec. 4 POCSO Act,2012

3. Accused person appeared before court to face the trial. The copies
of all the relevant documents furnished to the accused. After perusing
and considering all the relevant documents referred to U/S 173 Cr.P.C
as well as after considering the submission of Ld. Special PP and Ld.
Counsel for defence finding a prima facie case a formal charge U/S
366(A) I.PC and a charge u/s 4 POCSO Act,2012 has been framed
against the accused person and the same on being read over and
explained to the accused person to which accused person pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.

4 To bring home the charge against the accused person in this
case the prosecution side has adduced and examined 2 witnesses
including the informant and the victim but defence examined none.
After perusing and considering th evidence on record, examination of
the accused person u/s 313 CrPC is dispensed with.

5.POINTS FOR DECISIONS

 

1) Whether the accused person on 23.08.2018, at about 11:00 to 12:00
mid day induced victim to go from any place or to do any act with
intent that she may be or knowing that it is likely that she will be
forced .or seduced to illicit intercourse with another person and thereby
committed an punishable u/s 366 (A) IPC.

Contd...3
PAGE:3

2) Whether the accused person on 23.08.2018 at about 11:00 to 12:00
mid day committed penetrative assault upon the victim and thereby
committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

6. DECISION AND REASONS FOR DECISION-

| have gone carefully through the entire evidence of the record. |
have also heard and considered the argument put forwarded by the Ld
Spacial P.P for the State as well as Ld. Counsel for defence.

7. In this case the prosecution side has examined the informant Md.
Ramjan Ali as PW-1. The prosecution side has also exhibited the FIR
vide Ext. 1 and Ext. 1(1) is the signature of PW-1. In course of evidence
PW-1 stated that he himself has not written the FIR and did not know
the person who has written the FIR. PW-1 further stated that neither he
himself read out the contents of the FIR nor the contents of the FIR was
read over to him by anyone and hence he did not know what has been
written in the FIR. Thus, PW-1 who himself has lodged the FIR being the
informant of this case expressed his ignorance about the fact as
alleged in the FIR and in my considered view such kind of ignorance
about the fact as alleged in the FIR on the part of the informant
definitely weaken and reduced the weight, authenticity and credibility
of the FIR, which puts the machinery of law into motion as well as upon
which, the whole prosecution case is rested upon. Accordingly, on this
point benefit goes to defence.

8. From the FIR, which was exhibited by the prosecution vide Ext.1,
it is revealed that on the date of occurrence as alleged the accused
person kidnapped his daughter while the daughter of the informant,
the victim was on her way to the house of a relative of the informant
and taken her to a unknown place and rapped her, but in course of
evidence PW-1 who himself lodged the FI.R, Ext.1 stated that about
one years back his daughter disappeared from his house on the pretext
of going to he house of a relative. PW-1 further stated that later on he
heard that his daughter has eloped with the accused person. PW-1 in
course of cross examination clearly stated that after lodging the FIR he

Contd...4
PAGE:4

Came to know that his daughter voluntarily on her own will has eloped
withithe accused person and now a days both of them used to reside
peacefully as wife and husband.

9, Thus, the evidence of PW-1, who is the father of the victim and
the informant of this case appears to be not in conformity with the fact
as alleged in the FIR. That apart, PW-1 being the informant of this case
also expressed his ignorance about the fact as alleged in the FIR.

10. Now, let us discuss, assess and evaluate the evidentiary value of
PW-2, the victim. In course of evidence PW-2 stated that there was love
affair between her and the accused person and as her parents were not
willing to give her Marriage with the accused person, hence about one
year back she herself voluntarily eloped with the accused person and
NOw a days she used to reside with the accused person as his weeded
wife. In course of cross examination PW-2 reiterated the fact that she
herself voluntarily eloped with the accused person as per her sweet will
and entered into her marriage with the accused. PW-2 clearly stated
that before entering Marriage with the accused person she never
entered into physical relationship with the accused person.

11. The above is the threadbare discussion of the evidence on
record,

12. After perusing and considering the evidence on record and
considering the argument put forwarded by the learned counsel for the
prosecution as well as defence in its entirety, it appears that in this
case the prosecution side has failed to produce any solid and concrete
evidence against the accused. In this case, the evidence of P.W.1, who
is the informant of this case appears to be not in conformity with the
fact as alleged in the FIR. That apart PW-1 who is the informant of this
case has also expressed his ignorance about the fact as alleged in the
FIR, and such kind of ignorance about the fact as alleged in the FIR, on
the part of the informant definitely weaken and reduced the weight and
authenticity as well as credibility of the whole prosecution case. That
part the prosecution side have also failed to extract any corroboration

Contd...5
PAGE:5

or support to build up and establish its case as alleged against the
accused person from the evidence of PW-2, the victim, who is the star
witness of this case. Again, in this case the prosecution side is totally
silent about the intent of the accused person to kidnap the victim as in
nowhere it appears that the accused person has taken the victim with a
view that she will be forced o seduced to illicit intercourse with another
person and not with the accused as alleged, which is the most
important ingredient to attract and establish the offence punishable u/s
366(A) IPC as in this case during the course of trial no any witnesses in
course of their evidence stated a single line pertaining to the fact and
no any circumstances arises from which it can be inferred that the
accused have any such intention to kidnap and abduct the victim as
provided and required under the penal provision of the law. Even from
the evidence the victim and the informant, who is the father of the
victim, the prosecution side has totally failed to inspire any support to
build up its case as alleged against the accused as from the evidence
of victim and the informant, the prosecution side have totally failed
either to collect and accumulate any materials or evidence that the
accused person in any way compelled the victim to go with the
accused person by inducing or enticing the victim , or forced and
induced or caused her to illicit. intercourse with any other person.
After perusing and considering the evidence on record no inference can
be drawn from the evidence of any single witness that the accused
person is in any way involved in commission of the offence as alleged.

13. In the ultimate analyses on the light of above discussion it
appears that in this case the prosecution side has failed to produce any
single iota of evidence against the accused person which is sufficient to
fasten the accused with the charge as alleged against him beyond all
reasonable doubt. Thus, in this case the prosecution has not only failed
to operate the switch of the prosecution case for ignition but could not
even identify and point out the proper switch of the prosecution on the
board itself, hence the court have no any alternative but to acquit the
accused person from the charge as levelled against him.

Contd...6
PAGE:6

14. | therefore acquit the accused person from the charge levelled
against him. | also released the accused person from liability of bail
bond and set him at liability.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this 19" day of
August, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by me

Special Judge Special Judge
North Salmara, Abhayapuri North Salmara, Abhayapuri

Contd...7
PAGE:7
APPENDIX

. Prosecution Exhibits

Exhibit 1 - The FIR.
Exhibit 1{1) - The signature of PW.1.

. Material Exhibit by prosecution

 

 

Nil
. Defence Exhibits NIL
. Prosecution Witnesses Nil
PW-1 - Md. Ramjan Ali, the informant
PW-2 - Musstt. Almina Khatun, the victim
. Defence Witnesses NIL
. Court Witnesses NIL

 

Special Judge
North Salmara, Abhayapuri
