Page 1 of 6

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, DARRANG,MANGALDAI.

 

Spl(POCSO)No.24 of 2019.
(U/S :366, 376 I.P.C. R/W Ses.4 of POCSO
Act & U/S 6 of POCSO Act)

State
-Versus-

Sri Hari Bania
S/O-Sri Giridhar Bania
Village- Deb Narikali
P.S- Nagaon
Dist-Nagaon(Assam)

-- Accused.

PRESENT: Sri P.K.Bora,A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge.
Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPERANCE:

Learned advocate for the state : Mr. Premeswar Sarma,
AND

Learned advocate for the accused :Mr. Saidur Rahman

Evidence recorded on :12/09/19 and 20/12/19

Argument heard on = :24/02/2020

Judgment delivered on :24/02/2020
(i)

Page 2 of 6

JUDGMENT:

The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 05/05/2018 one Akhil
Chandra Saha lodged an F.I.R. before the O/C, Kharupetia Police Station
stating that on 04/05/2018 at about 12 noon Subrata Saha's 16 year old
daughter Miss X(real name is withheld) went out to purchase books and
thereafter, she did not return. It is also mentioned in the F.I.R. by the
informant that before she left her house she dialed a phone number to one
Siba Chand asking a phone No.8638484740.

On the basis of the said F.I.R., Police registered a case. In the course of
investigation, Police got the statement of the victim recorded in the Court
and also got the medical of the victim done. On completion of the
investigation Police submitted charge sheet against the accused Hari Bania

in sessions triable Officen.

The committing Magistrate committed the case to this Court. On his
appearance before this Court, the written charge U/S 366, 376 I.P.C. read
with Section 4 and 6 of POCSO Act was explained and read over to the

accused to which the accused pleaded not guilty.

Points for determination:

Whether on the date of occurrence the accused kidnapped Miss X for

marriage or sexual intercourse with her?

(ii) Whether on the same date and time the accused committed rape on Miss

X and thereby committed an offence U/S 376 I.P.C. read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act?

(iii) Whether on the same date and time the accused committed aggravated

penetrative sexual assault on Miss X?
10.

Page 3 of 6

REASONS AND DECISION THEREON

 

In the course of trial, the prosecution examined PW1 Akhil Chandra Saha,
PW2 Sandip Saha, PW3 Siva Chanda and PW4 victim Miss X.

PW1 Akhil Chandra Saha has stated that during the incident one Subrata
Saha and his wife were out of their house for treatment of cancer of
Subrata Saha at Calcutta. At that time their daughter Miss X went on
missing. Later, it was known to him that Hari Bania kidnapped the victim

girl. Later Police recovered the victim girl.

PW2 Sandip Saha is a seizure witness and in his presence Police seized one

School certificate.

PW3 Siva Chanda has stated that on the day of the incident the victim
came accrosed with him and she asked his mobile and dialed a number
and talked someone through his mobile phone. On the same day evening
he learnt from Akhil Saha that Miss X remained untraced. Thereafter, Akhil
Saha took him to Police Station and gave the phone number to whom Miss

X had phoned to Police.

PW4 Miss X has stated that one day he dialed a wrong number. One
person received her that call and he was the accused Hari Bania. Since
then the accused started to phone her. While her father and mother were
away due to treatment the accused came and identified himself as her
maternal uncle and thereafter, she was taken to Tezpur where she was
kept for 4/5 days. Police recovered her from the place of occurrence of her
captivity. Ext.3 is her statement during investigation and Ext.3(1) and Ext.

3(2) are her signatures.

In cross-examination, she admitted that before the Police and the Court

she deposed that there had been a love affair between the accused and
11.

12.

13.

Page 4 of 6

her and at her own sweet will she left with the accused and they got
married. She also stated that she was asked to say like to Police and the
Court by the accused. While she was taken to Tezpur and during her stay
at Tezpur she did not state anything to others. In cross-examination, she
further stated that she did not confirm whether Hari Bania is her maternal
uncle or not through her other maternal uncle. It has also come in her

evidence that she has total five maternal uncles of her own.

The accused person denied the indictments.

Heard argument advanced by the learned counsel for the sides.

With Ext.2, 1.0. in this case seized one registration certificate issued by
Board of Secondary Education,Assam against the Miss X and as per the
said registration certificate the date of birth of the victim is 10/06/2001. In
her statement which has been exhibited as Ext.3 before this Court, the
victim recorded her age as 17 year and she stated that one day she
became acquainted with the accused through mobile and a friendship grew
up between them. One day the accused came from Guwahati to
Bhebarghat and she also came out to Kharupetia and thereafter, both of
them went to Tezpur and stayed in the house of uncle of the accused and
they got married and they started to live like husband and wife.
Thereafter, both of them visited Kampur, Nagaon and Goalpara and
finally, they returned to Nagaon. Police searched them out and brought to
Mangaldai. In her evidence the victim stated that the accused introduced
himself to her as her maternal uncle and thereafter, she was taken to
Tezpur. This fact is not available in her statement made in the Court. She
also did not state in her evidence as to why she was taken to Tezpur. She
has five number of maternal uncles, but she did not ask them anything
about the accused, who claimed to be her maternal uncle. The victim is

not a girl of tender age. She is physically and mentally matured though her
14.

15.

Page 5 of 6

age was below 18 year as per matriculation certificate. It has also not

come in her evidence that she was forced to follow the accused.

It was held in S. Varadarajan -VS- State of Madrass reported in AIR
1965 SC 942 that --- But when the girl(who though a minor had attained
the age of discretion and is on the verse of attaining majority and is a
senior College student) from the house of the relative of father where she
is kept, herself telephoned the accused to meet her at a certain place and
goes there to meet him and finding him awaiting with his car gets into
that car of her own accord and the accused takes her to various places and
ultimately to the Sub Registrar Office where they get an agreement to
marry registered and there is no suggestion that this was done by force or
blandishment or anything like that on the part of the accused, but it is
clear from the evidence that the insistence of marriage came from her
side, the accused by complying with her wishes can by no stress of
imagination be said to have "taken" her out of keeping of her lawful
guardianship, i.e. the father. The fact of her accompanying the accused all
alone is quite consistent with her own desire to be the wife of the accused
in which the desire of accompanying him whereever he went is of course
implicite. Under the circumstance no inference could be drawn that the
accused is guilty of taking away the girl out of the keeping of her father.
She was willingly accompanied him and the law does not cast upon him
the duty of keeping her back and to her father's house or even by taking
by telling her not to accompany him. It has come in her statement on oath
made in the court during investigation that she got married with the
accused and thereafter, both of them lived like husband and wife. Here no
case is made out either U/S 376 I.P.C. or any other offence of POCSO Act.

In view of the ratio of the judgment stated above, the accused cannot be
held guilty for the offence levelled against him. Thus, the accused Hari

Bania is acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.
Page 6 of 6

16. Given under my hand and seal of this Court this 24 day of February,2020.

(P.K.Bora)

Sessions Judge,

Darrang,Mangaldai.
Dictated and corrected by me.

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPENDIX:

(A)Prosecution witnesses:

(i)PW1 Akhil Chandra Saha
(ii)PW2 Sandip Saha
(iii)PW3 Siva Chanda.
(iv)PW4 Miss X.

(B)Defence witness Nil
(C)Exhibits:
(i)Ext.1 F.LR.

(ii)Ext.2 seizure list
(iii)Ext.3 statement of victim.

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.

Typed by :

Nareswar Deka
Stenographer Grade-I.
