IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE o:ii:::: KOKRAJHAR

Special case No.1/2015

State of Assam
Vs.
Sri Budru Toppo _......... Accused

Present: Sri P.K.Bora, A.J.S.
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the accused : Mr A.K.Miah

Ld. advocate for the State :MrN.Roy (P.P.)

Evidence recorded on : 13.3.15, 20.5.15, 02.6.15, 26.6.15 and
29.7.2015

Argument heardon =: 07.9.2015

Judgment delivered on : 11.9.2015

JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 16.10.2014 Sri
Budbharu Roy lodged an Ejahar (Ext.2) before the Officer-in-charge of
Kokrajhar P.S. stating that on 25.9.2014 at about 6 p.m. her younger sister
Smti Golapi Roy set out to enjoy “Karam puja” held at No.7 Lalmati Tea
Estate, then she was went on missing. On the following day he learnt that the
accused Sri Budru Toppo had kidnapped Smti Gopali Roy to Palakata, West
Bengal. On the basis of the FIR lodged by Sri Budhbaru Roy police registered
a case and started investigation of the case. Police succeeded to recover the
victim Smti Golapi Roy and also to arrest the accused person. Police got
statement of the victim Smti Golapi Roy recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C.

wherein Smti Golapi Roy stated before the Court that at her own sweet will
she left with the

Special case
No.1/15

2

accused and they lived for fifteen days at Palakata. They lived as husband and
wife and accused Sri Budru Toppo assured her to marry. Victim Smti Golapi
Roy was medically examined. As per radiologist report at that time she was
above 16 years but below 18 years. Finally, police submitted the charge sheet
against the accused person. On his appearance before this Court the written
charge under section 366 of IPC was explained and read over to the accused to
which the accused pleaded not guilty.

J. Point for determination:

Whether on 25.9.2014 at about 4 p.m. accused Sri Budru Toppo

kidnapped Smti Golapi Roy ?
3. Reasons and decision thereon:

In the course of the trial prosecution examined Smti Golapi Roy
as PW1, Sri Bishnumaya Chetry as PW2, Sri Kamal Magar as PW3, Sri
Kamala Kanta Barman as PW4, Smti Damayanti Roy as PWS, Dr Manisha
Barophukan as PW6, Sri Budbharu Roy as PW7, Sri Dharmendra Roy as PW8
and S.I. Bhanita Das as PW9.

4. PW1 Smti Golapi Roy in her evidence stated that at her own
sweet will she went with the accused Sri Budru Toppo and they lived in the
house of maternal uncle of the accused at Palakata for fifteen days. They lived
as husband and wife and during this period they indulged sexual act.

5. PWs 2, 3, 4 and 8 in their evidence stated that they heard that
both Smti Golapi Roy and accused Sri Budru Toppo had left for Palakata.

6. PW5 mother of the victim Smti Golapi Roy stated in her
evidence that one day Smti Golapi Roy went on missing from her house and at
the same time accused was also found not available in his house, that some one

told her that Smti Golapi Roy and accused Sri Budru Toppo were seen
together. Thereafter her son lodged an Ejahar against the accused person. She
further stated that later Smti Golapi Roy left with one Ganesh.

Special case
No.1/15

3

7. PWé6 Dr Manisha Borophukan examined victim Smti Golapi Roy
medically and as per radiologist report at that time Smti Golapi Roy was above
16 years but below 18 years.

8. PW7 informant Sri Budbharu Roy stated in his evidence that out
of suspicion he filed a case against the accused person and he did not mention
the ground of delay of filing FIR.

o. PW9 S.I. Bhanita Das stated that the victim Smti Golapi Roy was
recovered with the accused Sri Budru Toppo from Palakata. She proved Ext.3

as charge sheet and Ext.3(1) as his signature.

10. The accused person denied indictment.
11. Heard argument advanced by the learned counsel for the sides.
12. As per medical evidence at that time the victim PW1 Golapi Roy

was above 16 years but below 18 years. PW1 Golapi Roy stated in her
evidence that at her own sweet will she went with the accused. It has come in
the evidence of mother of the victim Golapi Roy that after the incident Golapi
Roy eloped with one Ganesh. It has not come that the victim Golapi Roy is of
below average IQ. It can also be held that at the time of the incident Golapi
Roy was nearing 18 years. She was a fully grown up girl and she was not
suffering from any physical and mental deformity. It has not come in her
evidence that she was induced to proceed with the accused. It has also not
come in the evidence of PWs 5 and 7 who are none but mother and elder
brother of the victim Golapi Roy and accused made effort earlier to take
Golapi Roy forcefully.

In Shyam & Anr. Vs State of Maharasthra reported in 1995.
SC 2169 the Hon'ble Apex Court held that- she was a fully grown up girl may
be one who had yet not touched 18 years of age, but, still she was in the age of
discretion, sensible and aware of the intention of the accused Shyam, that he
was taking her away for a purpose. It was not known to her with whom

she was

Special case

 

4

going in view of his earlier proposal. It was expected of her then to jump down
from the bicycle, or put up a struggle and, in any case, raise an alarm to protect
herself. No such steps were taken by her. It seems she was a willing party to go
with Shyam on her own and in that sense there was no "taking" out of the
guardianship of her mother.
13. Thus, the prosecution has not been able to prove the alleged
charge against the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt. In result the
accused Sri Budru Toppo is acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 11th this day of
September,2015.
Dictated & corrected by me

Special
Judge,
Special Judge, Kokrajhar
Kokrajhar
Appendix
The prosecution witnesses are:
1.SmtiGolapi Roy’... PW1
2. Smti Bishnumaya Chetry.... PW2
3. SriKamal Magar ssi... PW3
4. Sri Kamal Kanta Barman ....PW4
5. Smti Damayanti Roy~—.... PW5
6. Dr Manisha Borophukan..... PW6
7. Sri Budbharu Roy =z... PW7
8. Sri Dharmendra Roy __..... PW8
9.S.I.BhanitaDas i... PW9

The Court Witness is : Nil.
The exhibited documents are:

LExtd 00 ww. Statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
2. EXt.2 eee Ejahar

3. Ext.2 wee Medical report

AExXt4 ow. Charge sheet

The Defence witness and exhibit : Nil
Special
Judge,
Kokrajhar
