IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016
(G.R. Case No. 352 of 2016)
Titabar P.S. Case No. 178 of 2016

Committing Magistrate:-

Sri Chinmoy Barua,

Judicial Magistrate 1* class,
Titabar Sub-Division,
Jorhat District

State of Assam

Versus

Sri Paban Turi,

Son of Sri Sambhu Turi,

Resident of Gatanga T.E. Gonju Line,

P.S. Titabar,

District-Jorhat. .... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri M.R. Barooah,
Learned Senior Advocate-cum-Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri D.P. Goswami, and Sri Prahlad Verma,
Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 8 OF THE PROTECTION OF
CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 31-08-2016

Date of prosecution evidence : 27-09-2016; 05-10-2016; 05-11-2016;
& 07-12-2016

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 06-01-2017

Date of Argument : 29-05-2017 & 13-06-2017

Date of Judgment : 13-06-2017

SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Titabar P.S. Case No.
178/2016 under Section 8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 was registered on the basis of a F.I.R. lodged by Smt.
Rudumai Mirdha, mother of the victim girl [hereinafter referred to as ‘X’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 20/07/2016 [Exhibit-2] the
informant Smt. Rudumai Mirdha [PW-2] who is the mother of the victim girl [X]
alleged, inter-alia, that on the same day her minor daughter, aged about 10
years, while residing alone in her house, the accused arrived at her house and
tore off the cloths of the victim and thereafter sexually assaulted her.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the In-charge, Jalukonibari
O.P. under Titabar P.S., the same was entered in General Diary Register vide
G.D.E. No. 297 dated 20/07/2016. The ejahar was sent to Titabar P.S. for
registration of a case under proper section of law. On receipt of the ejahar by the
then Officer-in-charge, Titabar P.S., the same was registered as Titabar P.S.
Case No. 178/2016 under Section 8 of The Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation the victim girl was medically
examined by the doctor, her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was
recorded by the learned Magistrate. Police, on completion of investigation, filed
charge-sheet in the case against the above named accused Paban Turi @ Mirdha
u/S. 8 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 vide Charge-
sheet No. 123/2016 dated 16/08/2016.

2). The learned Judicial Magistrate 1“ class, Titabar Sub-Division, Jorhat,
transmitted the case to this court for trial as it was covered under POCSO Act.

Accordingly, on production of accused, copy was furnished to him.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the learned counsel for
the accused and the prosecution in this behalf, charge was framed against the

accused under Section 8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,

SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016
2012, which was read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, O08 [eight] numbers of witnesses
including the victim, her parent, the Medical Officer and the I.0. were examined
on behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge u/S. 8 of The Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that on the
relevant day he went to the house of victim and drank water. He then asked the
victim to write her name which the victim wrote in Assamese language. He
further stated that as the victim wrote her name wrongly so he assaulted her
once with scale. Then he came out of the house of victim and went to his work
place. The accused has further stated that he has been falsely implicated in the
case. The accused pleaded innocence. No witness was adduced by the accused

in his defence though he claimed that he will adduce witness in his defence.

5). I have heard Sri Mukti Ranjan Barooah, learned Senior Advocate-
cum-Special Public Prosecutor for the State as well as Sri Diganta Prakash
Goswami being assisted by Sri Prahlad Verma, learned Defence Counsels for the
accused who is facing trial for commission of offence u/S. 8 of The Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on 20/07/2016 at Kamarbandha New Ganju Line,
Gatanga, Jorhat under Titabar P.S., the accused named above
committed sexual assault upon the victim girl and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 8 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7). To decide the above section of law, let us examine, analyze and

appreciate the evidence of the witnesses along with the relevant documents.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016
PW-1 [X] is the victim girl, who during her deposition in Court
stated that on the relevant day she was sweeping in her courtyard. At that time
accused arrived at her house and requested her to give some tobacco which she
gave to him. It is also stated by this witness that at that time her parents were
not present inside the house. The accused then instructed her to give him the
school copy. Accordingly she gave copy to the accused. Then accused asked her
to write her name in English language but she told the accused that she can
write in Assamese language. It is further stated by the victim that accused then
wrote her name in English language and thereafter requested her to bring a
glass of water. She gave accused a glass of water and when she went inside to
wash the glass the accused came near her, tore off her clothes, gagged her
mouth with his hand, for which, she could not shout for help. The accused also
told her not to disclose the fact to her parents. Thereafter accused instructed her
to come to his house to fetch some leteku fruits. She thereafter went to the
house of her Bordewta and informed the matter to the family members. When
her parent returned back home she disclosed the same to her parents. Police
produced her before the doctor for medico legal check-up as well as before the
learned Magistrate for recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. which she
exhibited as Exhibit-1 and her signatures thereon as Exhibit-1 [1] to Exhibit-1
[6].

During cross-examination, she stated that accused has his wife and
two years old daughter. The accused did not assault her for not writing her name
in English language as directed by him. She denied that accused assaulted her
for not writing her name in English language and in that event there was scuffle
in between them. She further denied that on the relevant day the accused did
not come near her when she was washing glass, grabbed her from behind and
thereafter tore off her clothes. All the defence suggestions which were put to her
during cross-examination were denied by the victim.

Hence, the evidence of the victim that the accused grabbed her from
behind and thereafter tore off her clothes on the date of incident remained

unshaked.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016
8). [PW-2] Smt. Rudumai Mirdha who is mother of the victim girl-
cum-informant of the case divulged during her testimony that on the date of
incident she was not present in her residence. When she returned back home
she came to know about the incident through her daughter, i.e., the victim [PW-
1]. Then she lodged ejahar before police which she exhibited as Exhibit-2 and
her signature as Exhibit-2 [1]. Further version is that police examined her
daughter, took her before a doctor for medico legal check-up. Then police
produced her before a Magistrate for recording statement under Section 164
Cr.P.C.

During cross-examination, she admitted that her daughter did not state
before her that accused assaulted her for not writing her name in English
language.

She denied all the defence suggestions put to her during cross-

examination.

9). The deposition of Sri Anil Mirdha [PW-3] who is the father of the
victim [X], is almost alike as that of his wife [PW-2]. He also stated that after
lodging of F.I.R. by his wife police arrived at his house, recorded statement of
the victim, took his daughter before a doctor for medico legal check-up as well as
before the court for recording her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

During cross-examination, he stated that he came to know about
the incident from his daughter as well as his wife. He categorically stated that on
suspicion his wife lodged ejahar before police against the accused. He further
confirmed that his daughter stated before him that in the scuffle which took
place between her and the accused, in that event, her clothes were torn off and
out of fear she stated lie to them. He further stated that after giving statement

before the learned Magistrate his daughter stated the above facts to him.

10). Sri Chinmoy Baruah [PW-4], Judicial Magistrate 1* class, Titabar
Sub-Division, Jorhat stated that on 21/07/2016 as per direction of learned Sub-
Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Titabar Sub-Division, District-Jorhat, he recorded
statement of the victim in her own language. He exhibited the statement of the

victim as Exhibit-1 and his signature thereon as Exhibit-1 [7] as Recording

SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016
Officer. After recording statement of the victim he passed an order in G.R. Case
No. 352/2016 which he exhibited as Exhibit-3 and his signature as Exhibit-3 [1]
as Recording Officer and thereafter the victim as well as the case record were
sent back to the learned S.D.J.M., Titabar Sub-Division.

This witness stated that the victim narrated the incident to him in
her own language in audible form and thereafter he recorded statement of the

victim.

11). Sri Mridul Gond [PW-5] who is a neighbour of the victim as well as
accused divulged during his testimony that he came to know about the incident
through his niece [PW-1]. Accordingly, he went to the house of his niece where
she showed him the place where accused tried to commit rape upon her.

During cross-examination, he stated that he did not state before police
that accused grabbed the victim and tried to commit rape on her after making
her lie on the ground. He further confirmed that victim did not tell before him
that accused assaulted her with scale as she could not write her name in English

language properly.

12). The evidence of Sri Ranjit Mirdha @ Gond [PW-6] who is also a
neighbour of both victim as well as accused is to the effect that he came to know
about the incident through the maternal uncle of the victim. Thereafter he went
to the house of the victim. It is his further version that victim narrated the whole
incident before him. The mother of the victim also stated the same facts as
stated by the victim to him.

During cross-examination, he stated that he did not witness the

incident.

13). PW-7 is Sri Birinchi Konwar, I.0. of the case, who divulged
during his testimony that on 20/08/2016 he was entrusted with the investigation
of the case. During investigation he examined the informant as well as victim at
the police station itself, produced the victim before a doctor for medico legal
check-up. The victim was also produced before the learned Magistrate for

recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. He also examined other witnesses

SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016
who were acquainted with the fact and circumstances of the case. He drew
Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index vide Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-3
[1] is his signature. On completion of investigation he submitted charge-sheet
against the accused on 16/09/2016 under Section 8 of The Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During cross-examination, he divulged that he did not record
statement of Sri Sunil Mirdha who happened to be the elder father of the victim
[Bordewta].

14). Dr. Amrita Nath [PW-8] who was posted at Jorhat Medical College
& Hospital as Lady Medical Officer [R] examined the victim on 22/07/2016 as per
police requisition and on examination she found as follows:
a) No sign of rape found.
b) Age of the victim is above 09 years and below 14 years.
c) No injury detected on her person at the time of examination.
The doctor exhibited her report as Exhibit-3 and her signatures
thereon as Exhibit-3 [1] to Exhibit-3 [3].
During cross-examination, the doctor denied that her opinion

regarding age of victim cannot deviate.

15). It is seen from the cross-examination of Sri Anil Mirdha [PW-3], i.e.,
the father of victim [X], that on suspicion his wife lodged ejahar before police
and also that his daughter stated before him that in the scuffle which took place
between the accused and herself, in that event her clothes were torn off and out

of fear she stated lie before them.

16). From a close perusal of statement of victim recorded by the learned
Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. it is seen that after the incident the accused
threatened her with dire consequence and thereafter fled away from her
residence. Thereafter, she deposed the facts to her maternal uncle Sri Mridul
Gandha as well as Dewani Gondha. Aforesaid Dewani Gandha was not examined
by the investigating officer who was a star witness to the instant case.

Furthermore, the victim stated before the learned Magistrate that at the time of

SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016
incident the accused tore off her panty as well as here wearing apparel but the
same were not seized by the investigating officer for the reasons best known to

him.

17). From the above appraisal of evidence on record it is seen that had
there been any sexual intent by the accused on the date of incident he [accused]
would not have asked the victim to write her name in Assamese language.

The accused during his examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C. stated
that on the relevant day he went to the house of victim and drank water. He
further stated that he asked the victim to write her name which she wrote in
Assamese language. As victim wrote her name wrongly so he assaulted her once

with scale. Then he came out of her house and went to his work place.

18). Furthermore, the evidence of mother Smt. Rudumai Mirdha [PW-2]
do not finds support from the evidence of Sri Mridul Gond [PW-5] and Sri Ranjit
Mirdha @ Gond [PW-6] who are independent witnesses of the case. Sri Mridul
Gond [PW-5] stated that the victim who happened to be his niece came to his
house and informed that accused grabbed her and made her lie on the ground
and tried to commit rape on her. Sri Ranjit Mirdha @ Gond also stated that victim
stated before him that accused came to her house; asked her to give him a glass
of water, accused tried to commit bad work with her forcefully. However, victim
in her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. did not utter a single word that
accused torned out her clothes or attempted to rape her. Hence, I do not find
corroboration in the testimony of witnesses as to material particular and fact to

the case.

19). Learned counsel for the defence Sri Diganta Prakash Goswami argued
that there is no evidence on record to establish the nexus between the offence
alleged and the accused. It is further submitted that evidence on record which
was brought by the prosecution does not point out to the guilt of the accused. It
is further submitted that from the evidence on record it is apparent that there is

no direct or circumstantial evidence against the accused to link him with the

SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016
commission of the alleged crime. It is also submitted that there is no motive

behind the crime and prosecution has miserably failed to prove the motive.

20). The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Assistant Collector of
Central Excise, Calicut—versus- V.P. Sayed Mohammad, reported in AIR
1983 SC 163 held as follows:

“It is true that the onus of proving the facts essential to the
establishment of discharge against an accused lies upon the
prosecution and the evidence must be such as to exclude every
reasonable doubt about the guilt of the accused. An accused cannot be
convicted of an offence on the basis of conjectures or suspicions. If
reasonable doubt arises in the mind of the court after taking into
consideration the entire material before it regarding the complicity of
the accused the benefit of such doubt should be given to the accused
but the reasonable doubt should be a real and substantial one and a
well founded actual doubt arising out of the evidence existing after

consideration of all the evidence”.

21). Keeping in mind the above rationale as laid down by the Hon’ble
Apex Court, I am constrained to hold that the evidence adduced by the
prosecution in support of its case is nothing shorter than mere conjectures and
suspicion. Consequently the charge under Section 8 of The Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 is held to be not proved against the accused Sri
Paban Turi beyond all reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the accused is found
entitled to get benefit of doubt, for which, the accused Sri Paban Turi is acquitted

on benefit of doubt.

22). Hence, the accused Sri Paban Turi is acquitted on benefit of
doubt from the offence u/S. 8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 and he is set at liberty forthwith. Bail bond stand discharged.

23). Send a copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate, Jorhat

u/S. 365 of The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, for information.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016
10

24). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 13th day of June
2017.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-10

SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016

10
11

ANNEXURES:-

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PW-1 Victim girl.

PW-2 Smt. Rudumai Mirdha, mother of victim-cum-
informant of the case.

PW-3 Sri Anil Mirdha, father of victim.

PW-4 Sri Chinmoy Baruah, Judicial Magistrate 1* class,
Titabar Sub-Division who recorded statement of the
victim girl.

PW-5 Sri Mridul Gond, neighbour.

PW-6 Sri Ranjit Mirdha @ Gond, neighbour.

PW-7 Sri Birinchi Konwar, S.I. of police.

PW-8 Dr. Ritu Saikia, Medical Officer of the case.

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Statement of the victim recorded by the Magistrate
under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index.

Exhibit-4 Medico legal report of the victim.

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO.

48 OF 2016

11
SPECIAL CASE NO. 48 OF 2016

12

12
