IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present : Sri Madhurjya Narayan, AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

SPECIAL CASE NO. 13 OF 2018
(G.R. Case No. 20 of 2018)
Jengraimukh P.S. Case No. 06 of 2018

State of Assam

-Versus-

Sri Nampi Pegu,

Son of Late Gorokhya Pegu,

Resident of Kumarbari Gaon,

P.S. Jengraimukh,

District-Majuli. ... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri Jayanta Deva Sarmah,
Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 376 [e] [i] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTIONS 4 & 8 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM

SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Date of Charge : 09-05-2018
Date of prosecution evidence : 23-07-2018; 08-08-2018; 05-09-2018;

18-12-2018 & 30-04-2019

 

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 29-05-2019
Date of Argument : 16-08-2019
Date of Judgment : 30-08-2019

SPECIAL CASE NO. 13 OF 2018
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 24/02/2018, informant Sri
Hemanta Mili, lodged a written ejahar with Jengraimukh Police Station, thereby
alleging inter-alia, that on 23/02/2018, around 4 p.m., in absence of the
informant as well as his wife, accused Sri Nampi Pegu entered his huse and after
gagging the mouth of their eight year old daughter [hereinafter referred as (X) in
order to screen her identity], committed rape on her. At that moment, they
entered their house and witnessed the incident and the accused person fled
away. Their victim daughter was taken to Jengraimukh hospital, wherefrom she

was referred to Garmur hospital for better medical treatment.

2). On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-in-charge, Jengraimukh
P.S., the same was registered as Jengraimukh P.S. Case No. 06/2018 under
Section 376 [2] [i] of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The Officer-in-charge, Jengraimukh P.S. S.I. Sri Hema

Kanta Nath himself took up investigation of the case.

2 (1) During the course of investigation, the I.0. visited the place of
occurrence, prepared Sketch Map of the same, recorded statements of the
witnesses and forwarded the accused Sri Nampi Pegu after arresting him. He also
got the statements of the victim recorded in the Court under Section 164 of
Cr.P.C. Then on completion of investigation, the I.0. laid charge-sheet against
accused Sri Nampi Pegu to stand trial in the Court under Section 376 [2] [i] of
IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,
2012 [in short, POCSO Act, 2012].

3). On production of the accused person before this Court, my learned
predecessor-in-court, after furnishing the copies of relevant documents and upon
hearing the learned counsel for both sides on the point of consideration of
charge and perusing the relevant materials, finding a prima-facie case under
Sections 376 [e] [i] of IPC read with Sections 4/8 of POCSO Act, 2012, framed

SPECIAL CASE NO. 13 OF 2018
formal charge there under against the accused person. Particulars of accusations
of above charge on being read over and explained to the accused, he pleaded

not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). To bring home the charge, the prosecution examined as many as 10
[ten] witnesses including the victim, her parents including her father who is the
informant of the case. Further, the prosecution side exhibited the statement of
the victim [X] recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. as Exhibit-1, statement of
informant Sri Hemanta Mili recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. as Exhibit-3,
the ejahar as Exhibit-2 and the Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index
as Exhibit-6.

5). On closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of the above
named accused was recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. in respect of the
incriminating circumstances that surfaced against him in the evidence on record.

No defence evidence was led in the instant case.

6). I have heard arguments advanced by the learned counsel for both
sides. I have also scrutinized the entire evidence of witnesses as well as all

relevant materials, including the exhibits on record.

6 (i). Learned Special P.P. Sri Muhidhar Dutta submitted that there are
sufficient materials on record to prove the guilt of the accused person beyond
reasonable doubt and as such, he be dealt with. On the other hand, learned
Defence Counsel Sri Jayanta Deva Sarmah, argued that prosecution evidence
lacks credibility and reliability. And as such, the accused person be acquitted of
the charge.

7). POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:-
Whether on 23/02/2018, around 4 p.m., at Kumarbari
Gaon Beruchuk, under Jengraimukh P.S., the above named accused

person:

SPECIAL CASE NO. 13 OF 2018
[i] committed rape on the victim daughter ‘X’ of the informant Sri
Hemanta Mili?

[ii] committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim ‘X’, who was
a minor?

[iii] committed sexual assault upon the victim ‘X’ who was aged about

eight years but below sixteen years?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

8). PW-1/victim ‘X’ deposed that the incident had taken place in the
morning hours. At that time, when she was alone at the house, accused caught
her hand and removed her pant and did bad work with her. That her parents

then came and the accused person was present at their house at that time.

8 (i). During cross-examination, PW-1 stated that the accused person is
her maternal uncle and he used to visit their house often, prior to the incident.
She admitted that the accused person did not do any bad work with her private

parts.

9). PW-2/Smt. Bijumoni Mili is the mother of victim/PW-1. She deposed
that accused person is her related brother and on the date of the incident, she
went to the paddy field alongwith her husband. That when she returned to her
house, around 4 p.m., she found the pant of the victim/PW-1 removed. That the
accused person confessed in her presence that he had removed the pant of the
victim/PW-1 and her daughter [PW-1] also told her about the same.

9 (i). During cross-examination, PW-2 stated that the accused person used
to visit their house often prior to the incident. That she did not witness the

accused doing any bad work with her victim daughter/PW-1.

10). PW-3/Sri Hemanta Mili is the informant and father of the
victim/PW-1. He deposed that on the date of the incident, he went to the paddy

SPECIAL CASE NO. 13 OF 2018
field alongwith his wife/PW-2 and returned home around 4/5 p.m. That he found
victim was lying on the bed with her pant removed. That he saw the accused
standing a little distance from her. That he then called the neighbourers, when
Bhim Kanta, Binod, Prafulla and some other villagers came to his house and he

narrated the incident to them. That after sometime, his wife/PW-2 came.

10 (i). During cross-examination, PW-3 stated that they had settled the

matter amicably and did not want to proceed with the case.

11). From the evidence of PW-1/victim, it is seen that the accused person
caught her by her hand, removed her pant and did bad work with her. However,
the term ‘bad word’ is wide and prosecution failed to elicit from the witness what
she implied by the term ‘bad word’. During cross-examination, PW-1 admitted
that the accused did not do any bad work with her private parts. As deposed by
PW-3/Sri Hemanta Mili, on his return home he found the victim/PW-1 lying on
the bed with her pant removed and also found the accused person standing at a
little distance from her. As deposed by PW-3, after neighbours namely
Bhimkanta, Binod and Prafulla came to his house, his wife/PW-2 also came
home. Wife of the informant as PW-2 further deposed that the accused
confessed in her presence that he had removed the pant of the victim/PW-1. It
has been deposed by PW-3 that Bhimkanta, Binod & Prafulla reached his house
before his wife/PW-2 came. Under the circumstances, they ought to have
witnessed the pant of the victim/PW-1 removed and the accused confessing to
his act. However, prosecution failed to examine the said neighbours of the
informant/PW-3, namely Bhimkanta, Binod & Prafulla, which is a serious loophole
on their part and raises a presumption under Section 114 [g] of the Evidence Act
that “evidence which could be and is not produced would, if produced,

be unfavourable to the person who withholds it’.
12). As per the ejahar [Exhibit-2], after the incident, the victim/PW-1 was

first taken for medical treatment to Jengraimukh Mini Primary Health Centre and

from there, she was referred to Garamur Hospital for further treatment. PW-

SPECIAL CASE NO. 13 OF 2018
4/Dr. Amit Kumar Doley, Medical Officer of Jengraimukh Mini Primary Health
Centre, deposed that on examination of the victim/PW-1, he did not see any
external bleeding or injury. He also deposed that the patient complained of pain
in the vagina and she was referred to Garmur First Referral Unit. The Medical
Officer of Garmur Civil Hospital Dr. Ananda Mohan Das, who had examined the
victim/PW-1, has been examined as PW-7 and said Medical Officer also did not
find any sign of sexual assault. So, what transpires is that the medical evidence

on record has not supported the case of the prosecution.

13). PW-5/Sri Lakhi Kanta Pegu deposed that on the date of the
incident, he was at Jonai and on his return home, he heard from one Sri Manish
Pegu that the accused person was roaming near the house of the victim/PW-1.
PW-6/Smt. Aradha Mili deposed that on the date of the incident, she was at
her work place and she heard that the accused person committed bad work with
the victim/PW-1. The evidence of PW-5 & PW-6 are accordingly hearsay and

inadmissible.

14). PW-8/Smt. Janata Mili and PW-9/Sri Dhoroni Pegu had been
declared hostile on the prayer of prosecution and no part of their evidence,
supported the prosecution case. Also, their statements made before the police,
as brought out by the prosecution during cross-examination, even if held to be

true, are hearsay and inadmissible.

15). The evidence of the I.0. Sri Hemo Kanta Nath as PW-10 also does
not lend any support to the prosecution case except that on handing over the
case diary by him, Smt. Indreswari Pegu on finding sufficient material against the
accused person, submitted charge-sheet against him under Section 376 of IPC
read with Section 4 of The POCSO Act, 2012. However, as reveals from the
evidence on record, no sufficient materials had been found against the accused

person during trial so as to connect him with the alleged offence.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 13 OF 2018
16). Based on the discussions so made herein before, it is found that the
evidence on record falls short of connecting the accused person Sri Nampi Pegu
with the alleged offence. Accordingly, he is entitled to acquittal on benefit of
doubt.

17). Accused is on bail. The bail bond of accused is extended for another

06 [six] months from today as per provision of Section 437-A Cr.P.C.

18). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 30th day of

August 2019.
Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-8

SPECIAL CASE NO. 13 OF 2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURES:-

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

PW-1 Victim girl.

PW-2 Smt. Bijumoni Mili, mother of the victim.

PW-3 Sri Hemanta Mili, father of the victim-cum-
informant of the case.

PW-4 Dr. Amit Kuamr Doley, M.O., Jengraimukh Mini
Primary Health Centre.

PW-5 Sri Lakhi Kanta Pegu, cultivator.

PW-6 Smt. Aradha Mili, cultivator.

PW-7 Sri Ananda Mohan Das, Retired M.O.

PW-8 Smt. Janata Mili, another cultivator.

PW-9 Sri Dhoroni Pegu, cultivator.

PW-10 Sri Hemo Kanta Nath, I.O. of the case.

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

Exhibit-1

Statement of the victim/PW-1 under Section 164
Cr.P.C.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Statement of PW-3/Sri Hemanta Mili under Section
164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-4 Medico-legal report of the victim

Exhibit-5 Another medico-legal report of the victim

Exhibit-6 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index

Exhibit-7 Charge-sheet

 

MATERIAL EXHIBIT:- NIL

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:
Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-

SPECIAL CASE NO.

I)

13 OF 2018

 
SPECIAL CASE NO. 13 OF 2018
