Page 1 of 15

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 71 of 2017
Under section 10 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of G. R Case No. 3345/17)
State of Assam

—Vs—
Sri Hem Chandra Keot we Accused Person

Present : Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State > Mr. MiC.Baruah,

Special Public Prosecutor

For the accused = Smti Dulumoni Sinha, Advocate
Date of Argument : 20-06-2019 and 04-07-2019
Date of Judgment : 10-07-2019.

JUDGMENT

1. The ‘genesis of the present case is anal sexual assault on a
ninevyears male child (herein after called as “the victim”). It is alleged
that on 28-08-2017 at around 3 p.m., when the informant’s nine
years old son was playing, taking advantage of absence of other
family members, accused Hem Chandra Keot by luring called the
informant’s nine years old son, made him fell down under bamboo

trees and making him nude, sexually assaulted him.

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.1) on 29-08-2017 from the
informant that is the victim’s mother (PW 1), the In-charge of the
Borsola Police Out Post made the G.D. Entry No. 450 dated 29-08-
2017 and forwarded the FIR to the Officer-in-Charge of Dhekiajuli

 
Page 2 of 15

Police Station for registering a case and launched investigation of the
case. Receiving the FIR, the O/C, Dhekiajuli PS registered the case
being Dhekiajuli P.S. Case No. 779/17 u/s 377 of the IPC and
entrusted SI Sura Chandra Doley (PW 8) to investigate the case who
had already initiated the investigation. In course of investigation, the
Investigating Officer (PW 8) visited the place of occurrence, recorded
the statement of the witnesses, arrested the accused, sent the victim
for medical examination, got his statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
and on completion of investigation having found materials, laid

charge sheet against the accused Hem Ch. Keot u/s 377 of thesIPC.

3. On appearance of the accused person before this. Court, after
furnishing the copies of the documents as required‘u/s 207 of Cr.P.C.
and having heard both parties, my learned predecessor, framed
charge against the accused Hem Chy Keot under section 10 of POCSO
Act and particulars of the charge on being read over and explained

to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as 9
(nine) numbers of-witnesses. On closure of the prosecution evidence,
statement of the, accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the
accused denied all the incriminating evidence that emerged against
him.

5. \ Ihave heard the argument of the learned counsel of both sides

andealso have gone through the materials on record.
6. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) Whether the accused Hem Chandra Keot on 28-
08-2017 at around 3 p.m. at village Na-pam Pothar
under Dhekiajuli Police’ station committed
aggravated sexual assault on the victim male child
aged about 9 years and thereby committed an
offence punishable under section 10 of POCSO Act?

 
Page 3 of 15

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

7. Mr. M. Baruah, the learned Special Public Prosecutor
strenuously argued that the materials on record undoubtedly project
a case of sexual assault on a boy of 9 years old. He further submitted
that the evidence of the child victim of sexual assault and the

evidence of other witnesses is enough to convict the accused person.

8. | Controverting the said argument, Smti Dulumoni Sinha, learned
counsel appearing for the accused, submitted that that.no~explicit
reliance can be placed upon the evidence of the minor.victimewho is
a tutored one. Moreover with the discrepancies in the evidence of the
prosecution witnesses during investigation and during) trial and the
medical evidence which is not suggestive.ofxany injury, made the
prosecution case doubtful and as such. the accused is entitled to
benefit of doubt.

9. In this case, the victiny and*his»parents categorically stated that
the victim was 9 years.old.at ‘the time of incident and the medical
report also reflects that the victim was below ten years. Age of the
victim is not disputed in this case. As such, I unhesitatingly hold that
the victim is a.child below the age of 12 years at the time of the

incident:

10... Now, the question is whether the accused Hem Chandra Keot
committed any offence on the victim child. In this respect, it would

be apposite to evaluate the evidence of the prosecution witnesses.

11. Let us first see what the victim, the star witness stated.

PW 4 is the victim. He deposed that on the day of incident at
around 3 p.m., while he was playing under a Bakul tree, accused
came there and luring him to give fishing rod took him inside the
jungle and asked him to touch his sexual organ. The accused also
threatened him that if he did not touch his sexual organ he will cut

him with a dao. He further deposed that the accused opened his

 
Page 4 of 15

(victim) pant, laid his (accused) wearing gamosa on the ground and
inserted his penis into the anus of the victim and thereafter the
accused asked the victim to put on the pant. He noticed some jelly
type substance emitted from the penis of the accused. Thereafter,
the accused gave him one fishing rod. In the incident blood was
oozing out from his anus. He returned home and changed his clothes
and informed the matter to his father. Knowing about the incident his
father went to the house of the accused but did not find him and on
the next day, lodged the FIR. He proved his statement.before the
Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as Ext. 2. He admitted that.at the'time of
giving statement before Magistrate as he was unable ‘to write his

name, so his mother put her signature in his statement.

During cross he stated that at thea.time of incident he was a
student of class IV. He admitted that from “Ka” standard they were
taught to write own name. He also admitted that after recording
statement, the learned Magistrate asked him to put signature but he
told her that he cannot writeshis name, so he did not sign on it.
According to him, onsthe day at 12.00 noon the school hour was
over. He stated that at the time of the incident the accused was
holding a dao ‘in the right hand and by left hand, holds him (PW 4)
and he(PW.4) was lying upside down. His mother also noticed blood
stain on his white pant. The accused did the misdeed with him for
about\10 minutes and during that time the accused was holding the
dao. in his hand. He admitted that he sustained some scratch injury
without bleeding. This witness again stated about bleeding of his

anus in the act of the accused and doctor also had seen the injury.

12. Close on the heels of the evidence of the victim, his mother
who is the informant of the case stated in her evidence as PW 1 that
on the day of incident when her victim son was playing under a Bakul
tree in front of their house, accused Hem Keot was doing work near
the said tree. At that time accused called her son towards the

bamboo groves luring to give fishing hook and thereafter asked her

 
Page 5 of 15

son to touch penis. The accused also asked her son to open his pant
and when her son refused, the accused threatened him by showing a
dao and forcefully took off his pant. Thereafter, the accused made
him fell upon ground and committed carnal sex on him. After
committing the said act, accused gave her son a fishing hook and
luring that he would give Rs. 10/-, asked him not to disclose the
matter to anybody. After the incident, her son returned home and fell
asleep and when they returned home from work, found the victim
crying. He did not respond as usual and his health condition is also
not found good. Though at first her son hesitatedsto report the
matter but on being asked by his father, he narrated the whole
incident in her presence. Then they searched the accused in his
house but did not find him as he fled away. Thereafter, she lodged
the FIR.

During cross she stated that the bamboo grooves where the
accused took her son are owned. by her cousin brother and in the
back side of the said..bamboo groves, there is residence of her
brother. At the relevant time neither her brother nor his wife were at
home and her mother who is a deaf and dumb was at home. She
further stated ‘that_near her house, the residence of Gobinda Deka
and 3/.4:others are situated. She also stated that she noticed blood
oozing, out, from the anus of her child and back side of the clothes
were ‘also wetted but they could not produce the clothes to the

police.

13. PW 2, the father of one daughter and the victim male child,
categorically stated that on the day of incident, the accused called his
son to the bamboo groves with luring to give fishing hook. Thereafter
the accused laid his wearing gamosa, asked the victim child to lie
thereon and then asked to touch the penis of the accused. Thereafter
the accused asked the child to open his pant and inserting his penis
in anus did carnal sex. After that accused gave one fishing hook to

the child and luring to give Rs. 10/-, asked the victim not to disclose

 
Page 6 of 15

the matter to others. On the day, when he returned from work, he
found his son crying upon bed. Then on being asked, the victim told
him that the accused calling him under the bamboo groves did carnal
sex, aS a result he had been suffering from pain in backside. Hearing
the incident, he went insearch of the accused but did not find him.
Thereafter, his wife lodged the FIR.

During cross, he stated that his daughter did not state about
the incident as she might have felt shy. He also stated that in the
place of occurrence many broken articles like bamboo root, branch of
bamboo etc were lying. He only saw the blood stain.but.not seen any
injury and the pant of the child was also found with, blood stain.

Villagers also noticed the blood stain in the pant of his son.

14. PW 3 Sri Gobinda Deka, the co-villager deposed that the
parents of the victim informed him:that the-accused committed carnal
sex on the victim, aged about.9\ years, under the bamboo groves.
Then they the villagers proceeded*to the house of the accused but
did not find him.

15. PW 5 Dr. Nabajit Barman, Demonstrator, Department of
Forensic Medicine.and Toxicology, TMCH deposed that on 30-08-
2017 atyaround 2 p.m. in reference to Borsola GDE No. 450 dated 29-
08-2017 he examined the victim and opined that the age of the
victimmboy is above 7 years and below 10 years and no sign of recent
anal intercourse or evidence of recent injury on private part or any
other parts of the body was detected. He proved the Medical report
as Ext.3.

During cross, he stated that if a minor boy aged about 7 years
was anal inter-coursed with force, there must be some injury over
private parts and anal inter-course by any person to a child under

bamboo groves, there may be some injury.

16. PW 6 Pulen Rajbongshi deposed that the accused used to work

in his house as day labour and on the day of incident when he was at

 
Page 7 of 15

Dhekiajuli, his wife informed him over phone that accused Hem
Chandra Keot committed anal intercourse to the victim in the midst of

their bamboo groves.

During cross he admitted that there is a Bakul tree infront of
their house. He stated that the accused was apprehended by police

on the very night of the incident.

17. PW 7 Atul Barman on the next day morning came to know that
the accused forcefully committed anal sex to the victim in the back
side of bamboo groves. At this stage the witnessswas declared

hostile.

18. PW 8 SI Sura Chandra Doley, the Investigating Officer,
deposed that on 29-08-2017 on receipt. of an\FIR from the informant
he made the Borsola OP GDE No. 550 dated 29-08-2017 and sent the
FIR to O/C Dhekiajuli Police station for registering a _ case.
Accordingly, consequent tothe registration of the case by O/C, he
was entrusted to investigate the case. During investigation he visited
the place of occurrence, prepared the sketch map of the place of
occurrence vide Ext..4, recorded the statement of witnesses, sent the
victim for medical. examination, got recorded his statement u/164
Cr.P.C.,earrested the accused and on completion of investigation,
submitted chargesheet against the accused u/s 377 of the IPC vide
Ext. 5. He confirmed the relevant statement of hostile witness Atul

Barman made before him vide Ext. 6(1).

During cross, he stated that when he recorded the statement of
the victim, the other police personnel were present there. He did not
seize any wearing apparels of the accused or the victim or any other
articles. He admitted that he did not sent the accused for medical

examination whether he is capable of doing sexual offence.

19. PW 9 Miss Aklima Begum, the then Judicial Magistrate, 1*

class, Tezpur recorded the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. in

 
Page 8 of 15

presence of mother of the victim and after recording the statement of

the victim, obtained the signature of the mother of the victim.

20. It is already discussed that as per ocular evidence as well as
medical evidence, the child victim is below the age of 12 years.
Bearing in mind the above findings as regards the age of the victim,
let me, now turn to the question of alleged offence of sexual assault
on the child victim below the age of 12 years. While considering this
as part of the matter, it is worth noticing that it is the testimony of
the victim which has brought the allegation of anal sex against, the
accused person. The victim boy PW 4 stated that while \he was
playing under a Bakul tree in front of his house, accused came there
and by luring to give some fishing rod took him inside the jungle and
asked to touch his sexual organ. The accused ‘also threatened him
showing a dao that if he did not touch his*sexual organ he would cut
him. Thereafter, the accused asked him.to open his (PW 4) pant. The
accused laid his wearing gamosa ‘on the ground and inserted his
penis into the anus of thewictim, as a result blood was oozing out
from his anus. Thereafter the accused asked the child to put on the
pant. The victim also noticed some jelly type substance emitted from
the penis of:the.accused. After the incident the accused gave him one
fishing rod*.Then he came home, changed clothes and later on
informed the matter to his father. Corroborating his evidence, PW 1,
thexinformant as well as the mother of the victim, testified that on
the,day when her son was playing under a Bakul tree in front of her
house, accused Hem Keot was doing work near the said tree. At that
time the accused called her son towards the bamboo groves luring to
give him fishing hook and thereafter asked her son to touch his
penis. Though at first her son refused but the accused threatened
him with a dao. The accused made the child laid upon the ground
and committed carnal sex on him. After the incident, the accused
offered him a fishing hook and luring to give Rs. 10/- asked him not
to disclose the matter to others. She also stated that when she and

her husband returned home from work, the victim did not respond as

 
Page 9 of 15

usual and lateron the child reported the incident. During cross, she
also stated that she noticed bleeding from the anus of her child and
back side of the clothes were also wetted. PW 2, the father of the
victim, in the tune of PW 1 made the same version. PW 3, PW6 and
PW7 are neighbours and hearsay witnesses who also heard that the
accused committed carnal sex with the victim under bamboo groves.
So, there is corroborating evidence that the accused on the day
taking the victim child to the jungle, took off his pant, made him laid
upon the ground and then committed carnal sex on him (PW:4). The
victim made the same version in his statement u/s 164. CriP’G., Ext.2
wherein he stated that the accused inserted his penis.invhis anus for
about four times as a result he felt pain. The evidence of the victim’s
mother that on the day while she returned home from work found
the victim not responding as usual also corroborated by the victim in
his statement made u/s 164 Cr.P.C..wherein he clearly stated that
usually when his parents returned home, he and his brothers and
sisters ran to them but on:that day*he did not go to them and feeling
unwell was lying on bed andshence his parents came to him and on
being asked, later-on*hesreported the incident. Though the statement
u/s 164 Cr.P.G-is notxa substantive piece of evidence but in the case
the victim.in deposition made the same version. Although there are
no other witnesses from the scene of crime, which is also not
expected, as this kind of offence are not committed within anyone's
view,»the unflinching evidence of the victim with corroboration from
his parents without any discrepancies, strengthened the case of the

prosecution.

21. Learned defence counsel pointed me out that as per
evidence of the victim blood was oozing out from his private part and
P W 1, the mother of the victim, the most natural witness also during
cross stated that she noticed blood emitted from the anus of the child
and the back side of the clothes of the victim child were also wetted
but injury report does not support the same. In this case, the victim

was medically examined after two days and doctor found no any

 
Page 10 of 15

injury on the private part or any other parts of the victim. During
cross the Medical Officer stated that if a minor boy was anal
intercoursed, there must be some injury over his private part. In this
case no injury was detected. In my opinion, being a child of 9 years
he might not know what is penetration or what was going on with
him. But the facts remained that on the day the accused by luring
took the victim under bamboo groves, asked the child to touch his
(accused) penis and opening the pant of the child touched the anus

by the penis of the accused and in that case injury may not be found

22. The Learned Defence Counsel also urged that the.blood. stained
clothes of the victim as alleged was not seized. by the police for
sending it to the FSL to ensure that there was any semen or blood of
the victim on the clothes worn by thexvictimydue to injury. The
obvious reason may be that those’ clothes“were washed off. The
father of the victim is a Rickshaw puller and mother is a day labour.
They might have no knowledge thatethose clothes have to be kept in
order to produce before police. Now, the question is, whether the

accused will have to be acquitted on that score?

In Visveswaran v. State Rep. By S.DM of the Supreme
Court reported. in (2003) 6 SCC 73 in para 12, the Hon’ble
Supreme. Court-held that-

“Further it is also required to be kept in view that every
defective investigation need not necessarily result in
acquittal. In a case of defective investigation, the only
requirement is of extra caution by courts while evaluating
evidence. It would not be just to acquit the accused solely as
a result of defective investigation. Any deficiency or
irregularity in investigation need not necessarily lead to the
rejection of the case of the prosecution when it is otherwise

proved.”

In the instant case when there is corroborative evidence of the

victim and his parents on material particular regarding touching the

 
Page 11 of 15

anus of the child by the penis of the accused as discussed above, non
seizure of blood stained clothes and not sending it to FSL, the
prosecution story cannot be thrown away overboard which is

otherwise established.

23. Another argument of the defence is that the victim is a tutored
one. Settled law is that a child witness is required to be considered
with care and caution and possibility of being tutored is required to
be ruled out, but cases involving sexual molestation and assault

requires a different approach.

In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare Vs. State*of.Maharashtra
(1997 (5) SCC 341), Hon’ble Supreme Court held.that: (i) A child
witness if found competent to depose to the facts and reliable one,
such evidence could be the basis of ‘conviction. (ii) Even in the
absence of oath the evidence of.a child witness can be considered
under section 118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness is
able to understand the answerssthereof. (iii) The evidence of a child
witness and credibility thereof.would depend upon the circumstances
of each case. (iv) The,only-precaution which the Court should bear in
mind while assessing.the evidence of a child witness is that the
witness must ‘beva reliable one and his/her demeanour must be like
any other competent witness and there is no likelihood of being
tutored.\(v) The decision on the question whether the child witness
has=sufficient intelligence primarily rests with the trial Judge who
notices his manners, his apparent possession or lack of intelligence,
and said Judge may resort to any examination which will tend to
disclose his capacity and intelligence as well as his understanding of
the obligation of an oath. (vi) This precaution is necessary because
child witnesses are amenable to tutoring and often live in a world of
make beliefs. (vii) Though child witnesses are pliable and liable to be
influenced easily, shaped and moulded, but if after careful scrutiny of

their evidence, the Court comes to the conclusion that there is an

 
Page 12 of 15

impress of truth in it, there is no obstacle in the way of accepting the

evidence of a child witness.

24. Defence taking the plea that the child is tutored one,
suggested that he stated before the Magistrate and before the
Investigating Officer as per instruction of other person which the
victim clearly denied. In this case the victim made the same version
in court whatever he stated before the Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
and his evidence has been corroborated by his parents. Evidence of
the victim is found spontaneous and trustworthy without inviting any

suspicion of being tutored. I find nothing to disbelieve his ‘evidence.

25. Again, it is pertinent to note down ‘that there was no
animosity between the parties. In fact, the victim called the accused
as “kaka” (grandfather). Nothing in the,record throws any light on
any kind of animosity between the victim’s family and the accused.
There is no basis for the minor child,to bring a charge of anal sex
against the accused person ‘unless it was true. There would be no
reason to malign his.name by. exposing himself as a victim of sexual
assault unless he«was, offended by a man touching his private part.
On the very day, on being asked, he reported the incident to his
father and. then though his father and mother went to the house of
the accused but did not find him and then FIR was lodged on the
next.day.. [find nothing why should a boy depose falsely against the
accused regarding sexual assault. To disbelieve his evidence would
be tantamount to adding insult to physical and mental injuries
already inflicted on him. The evidence of the victim is convincing as it
carries quality and adequate reliability. A clear and dispassionate
scrutiny of the evidence of the victim shows that his evidence remain
undoubted regarding causing of sexual assault by the accused and
therefore his evidence cannot be brushed. I find nothing to discredit
his evidence. Though in absence of any injury, it cannot be held that
there was penetration but the corroborative evidence of the child

victim and his parents it is established that with sexual intent the

 
Page 13 of 15

accused by his penis touched the anus of the child below the age of

12 years.

26. From the evaluation of the prosecution material discussed
above, it is abundantly clear that the evidence brought on record
contained positive proof, credible sequence of events and factual
truth that the accused Hem Chandra Keot asked the victim to touch
his sexual organ and touched the anus of the child by his (accused)
penis and the child being below the age of 12 years, it comes within
purview of section 9 (m) of POCSO Act for committing the offence of
aggravated sexual assault punishable u/s 10 of \POCSO Act.
Accordingly, accused Hem Ch. Keot is held guilty for.the offence
punishable u/s 10 of POCSO Act and convicted accordingly.

27. I have heard the accused Hem Ch. Keot on the point of
sentence. His statement is recorded where-he stated that he has his
wife and two sons, aged about.14 years and 21 years and he is the

only bread earner of his family-hence, prayed for leniency.

28. I gave my_anxious)consideration on the aspect of quantum
of sentence. Section, 10,0f POCSO Act prescribes punishment up to 7

years but the same shall not be less than 5 years.

29. In the:instant case, the offence committed by the accused is
sexual assault against a child of 9 years. Accused mentioned his age
as 80, years. Considering the submission of the accused, I am of the
considered opinion that the minimum punishment provided by law for
the offence u/s 10 of POCSO Act will meet the ends of justice.

30. Considering all aspects, I sentence the convict Hem Chandra
Keot to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for 5 years and also to pay a
fine of Rs. 5,000/- in default to undergo Simple Imprisonment for
another 2 months for the offence punishable u/s 10 of POCSO Act.

31. The period of detention already undergone by the accused

Shall be set off against the terms of imprisonment as per provision of

 
Page 14 of 15

section 428 of Cr.P.C. His bail bond stands cancelled and surety be
discharged.

32. Convict/accused convict Hem Chandra Keot be sent to

Central Jail, Sonitpur, Tezpur to serve the sentence.

33. Case is recommended for compensation of the victim as
per provision of Section 357 A of Cr.P.C. by District Legal Services
Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

34. Let a free copy of the Judgment be furnished to, the
convict.
35. Also send a copy of the Judgment\.to) the District

Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur as per provision»of section 365 Cr.P.C.
and a copy to the District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.
36. Given under my Hand_and,Seal-of this Court on this the
10" day of July, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and*corrected by me.

(1,Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur
Prosecution witnesses.

Pen aus wWNP

PW 1
PW 2
PW 3
PW 4
PW 5
PW 6
PW 7
PW 8
PW 9

Exhibits.

Ext.
Ext.

Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.

N DD Oo FBR W NEF

Page 15 of 15

APPENDIX

: Mother of the victim/informant
: Father of the victim

: Gobinda Deka

: Victim

: Dr. Nabajit Barman

: Phulen Rajbongshi.

: Atul Barman.

: Sura Ch. Doley, I.O.

: Miss Aklima Begum (JMFC)

FIR
164 Cr.P.C. statement.of.the victim

Medical report:

Sketch map

charge.sheet.

Case diary.

Magistrate’s Order dated 01-09-2017

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
