IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE :: ::_ :: TINSUKIA

 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,

Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 48 (M) of 2017
U/s 4 of the POCSO Act
The State Of ASSAM — ha eeesaecaeseeeeeeeeeeees Complainant.
-Versus -

Sri Suraj Prasad

S/o- Sri Dayanand Prasad

R/o- Itakhuli Mokrani Line

P.S- Margherita

District- Tinsukia, ASSAM hac eececceceaeeeeeeeeeenes Accused.

Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal

Spl. Public Prosecutor ............. For the Complainant
Sri Sumon Sharma
Advocat@ —=—___diuuuceaveueeevenens For the accused.
Date of Argument: 09/02/2018

Date of Judgment: 09/02/2018

U D GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. The prosecution case against the accused Suraj Prasad is
that on 21/06/2017, the prosecutrix, who is a girl below 18 years of
age gone out of her house for school, but she did not return home.

2. On the next day, the father of the prosecutrix had lodged an
ejahar before the police alleging that on 21/06/2017, though his
daughter had gone to school, she actually did not attend her school
and simply disappear. In the ejahar, the informant has stated that
he suspected that the present accused might have kidnapped his
daughter.

3. On the day of occurrence itself, the mother of the victim girl
had informed her brother that the victim girl had disappeared and
accordingly he somehow recovered the girl from Dibrugarh. The
victim girl gave her statement before the magistrate u/s 164 Cr.PC
stating that at the time of occurrence, she was a student of class IX
and she was about 15 years of old. She further stated before the
magistrate that she had eloped with the accused on 21/06/2017.
According to the statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.PC, the victim girl
and the accused first came to Tinsukia and thereafter to Dibrugarh,
where she married the accused on 27/06/2017. Thereafter, she and
the accused stayed in the house of a relative of the accused as
husband and wife. She has also stated before the magistrate that
she had physical relationship with the accused during that period.
The victim has further stated that her uncle arrived there and he
brought the victim girl and the accused to the Police Station.

4. The victim girl was also subjected to medical examination.
The doctor opined that the age of the victim girl was between 14-16
years.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

5. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to whether
the accused had committed penetrative sexual assaulted upon the
victim girl, who was below 18 years of age?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

6. In order to prove the case against the accused person, the
prosecution side has examined as many as three witnesses
including the victim girl. The defence plea is of total denial and no
evidence has been adduced by the accused. | have carefully gone
through the evidences.

7. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up the
evidence of the victim girl. She has stated before the prosecution
counsel that she did not know the accused. She has stated that on
22/06/2017, while she was going to school at about 9-10 am, the
accused took her to an unknown place. The victim has stated that
her uncle had brought her back to Ledo.
8. The prosecutrix has resiled from her earlier statement made
before the police. She has stated before the Ld defence counsel that
she did not remember if she had stated before the police that she
was having love affairs with the accused. She has also denied
having stated before the police that the accused had gifted her one
mobile phone.

9. Now, | shall take up the evidence of the father of the victim
girl. He has stated that after recovery of his daughter, she told him
that she did not remember how she was taken to Dibrugarh. The
father of the victim has stated that he came to know later on that
the accused had taken away his daughter. The father of the victim
has lastly stated that he had lost the original birth certificate of his
daughter.

10. The last witness is the uncle of the victim girl. He is the
brother of the mother of the victim girl. He has stated that on being
informed by his sister, he initially went to Leo insearch of the victim
girl and thereafter he went to Dibrugarh in search of his niece,
where he ultimately discovered her in a house at Amulapatty. The
uncle of the victim girl has stated that when he met the victim girl,
she was a bid perplex and could not give proper answer as to how
she reached that place.

11. After perusal of the prosecution evidences, | find that the
victim girl has failed to support the fact that she was subjected to
penetrative sexual assault by the accused. Therefore, in my
considered opinion, the charge of penetrative sexual assault has
already fallen through. Accordingly, | have reasons to hold that the
prosecution side has failed to prove the offence against the accused
beyond all reasonable doubts.
ORDER

12. Inthe result, the accused Suraj Prasad is found not guilty and
accordingly he is acquitted from this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 9th day
of February, 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

(P.J. Saikia)
Special Judge Special Judge
Tinsukia Tinsukia

A P P EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Smti Sneha Mallah
2. PW2 - Sri Joy Prakash Mallah
3. PW3 - Sri Jiyalal Mallah

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1- Statement
2. Ext. 2- Ejahar
DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
