 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 23/2018.
(U/S - 366(A) of IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.)

State of Assam
-Versus-
Sahab Uddin Mazumder i eesanne ees Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance_and particulars :-

For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.

For the accused person ‘- Sri K.U. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.

Date of recording evidence - 19.11.2019.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC :- 21.11.2019.

Date of Argument 21.11.2019.

Date of Judgment = 21.11.2019.
JUDGMENT

 

The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 04.10.2018 the
informant Must. Sajna Begum Laskar lodged an Ejahar with the O/c, Lala Police
Station alleging that she is a poor widow and has been pulling out her livelihood
alongwith the children under great hardship. On 17.09.2018 at about 4 PM taking
advantage of her absence in the house, the accused person Sahab Uddin Mazumder
alongwith others came to her house and committed rape on her minor daughter, the
victim.

Contd.....P/2.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 23/2018.
- 2-

2. On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as Lala PS
Case No. 485/2018 was registered under Sec 363/376/294/323/506/34, IPC read
with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012. During investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, recorded statements of witnesses, got the victim medically examined
and also got her statement recorded under Sec. 164, CPC and after completion of
investigation submitted charge sheet against the accused person Sahab Uddin
Mazumder under Sec. 366, IPC.

3. On appearance of accused person Sahab Uddin Mazumder,

copies of relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to him.

4. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence
Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record, having found sufficient
grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed the offence, the
formal charges have been framed against the accused person Sahab Uddin
Mazumder under Sec.366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. The
charges so framed were read over and explained to the accused person, to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined the victim
and her mother, the informant only. Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public
Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence Counsel, the prosecution evidence was closed. The
accused person is examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has denied the
allegations. The defence did not adduce any evidence.

6. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.

7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

PUINIS PVR eee

(i) Whether the accused person on 17.09.2018 at about 4 PM
at village Chandrapur Pt. I under Lala PS induced the victim, the daughter of the

Contd.....P/3.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 23/2018.
-3-

informant to go with him with intent that she might be or knowing that she would be
forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby, the accused has committed the
offence punishable under Sec. 366(A), IPC?

(ii) Whether the accused person committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim, the minor daughter of the informant, and thereby, the accused
person has committed the offence punishable under Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act,2012?

ISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :-

DISCUSSION, VEU——eerrrwrre_—_——ee

8. The victim (PW.1) has deposed that the accused Sahab Uddin
Mazumder is her husband. About one year back, one day without informing her
mother, she eloped with the accused out of love affair and married the accused but
her mother lodged the case. It is further deposed by the victim that at the time of
incident, she was aged 18 years and she has been living with the accused as his
wife. During investigation, police got her medically examined and also got her
statement recorded by Magistrate vide Ext. 1 and Ext. 1(1) is her signature.

In cross examination, the victim has stated that she has got

no allegation against the accused and she made her statement before the Magistrate
on being influenced by her relatives.
9. The PW. 2, Sajna Begum Laskar, the informant, has deposed
that about one year back one day at about 4 PM, her daughter i.e. the victim went
missing from her house and thereafter, she made search for her and came to know
that she eloped with the accused and as such, she filed the FIR vide Ext. 2 and
subsequently, she learnt that the victim had love affair with the accused but
thereafter, she gave the marriage of the victim with the accused and during their
conjugal life, they have been blessed with a child. It is further deposed by the
informant that she has got no allegation against the accused.

10. In the backdrop of the evidence of the victim, it is surfaced

that at the relevant time, the victim was major and she had love affair with the

Contd.....P/4.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 23/2018.
-4-

accused and out of that, she eloped with the accused and married him and since
then, she has been living with the accused as his wife having a child out of their
wedlock. The victim has also added in her evidence that on being influenced, she
made her statement before the Magistrate. It has also been made clear in the
evidence of the informant that on the relevant day, finding the victim not in the
house, the informant searched for her but could not find her out and as such, she
filed the case against the accused but when, the informant learnt that the victim had
love affair with the accused, she gave the marriage of the victim with the accused
and at present, they are the parents of one child. As such, when the victim herself,
whose evidence bears much significance to decide such type of cases, has not
supported the prosecution case, I do not find any cogent reason to hold the accused

person guilty for the commission of the offence, alleged.

11. In fine, the accused person Sahab Uddin Mazumder is
acquitted of the offence charged under Sec. 366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of
the POCSO Act. Set him at liberty forthwith.

12. The bail bond of the accused stands discharged.
13. The Special (POCSO) case is disposed of accordingly.

The judgment is delivered today, on this the 21* day of
November, 2019.

 

Dictation is taken and transcribed by Baharul Islam Choudhury,
Stenographer Grade l.

CONDE. \avivenss P/5.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 23/2018.

-5-

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, the victim,

PW. 2, the informant.

Documentary evidence :-

Nil.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

 

Speci Judge, Hailakandi
