IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR AT SILCHAR.

Present :- Sri K. Choudhury,
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

Spl. (POCSO) Case No : 12/2016.
U/S. 366/344 IPC R.W. Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

State Of ASSAIM............cccccceeeeeeeeeeeaeeeaeeaeeeaeeea tena eeaaeaatesssssssees Complainant.
-\/s-

Manik Dey.

S/O Late Monindra Ch. De

Sibporia basti. Po. & Dist. Tinsukia :::iiii::: Accused person.

Charge framed on: - 30.06.2016.

Date of recording evidence: - 19-07-16, 04-08-16, 18-08-16, & 01-09-16,

Statement of the accused person recorded on:- 01.09.16.

Argument heard on I" 08.09.2016.
Judgment delivered on I" 14-09-2016.
ADVOCATE APPEARED

For the prosecution :- Mr. S. Dutta. P. P.

For the defence :- Mr. S. Takur. Learned advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case as it evolves from the record, in brief
is that the victim, the minor daughter of the complainant when reading in

class-IX inadvertently over wrong telephonic call got acquittance with the
accused. After that there had been regular conversation among them which
continued for about five months. One day prior to the alleged incident the
accused came from distance place and made contact with the victim who
seeing the accused as much older than her was reluctant to maintain the
relationship. However, on the threatening of the accused to commit suicide
and to kill her father she on the morning of 04-01-16 went out from her
house in the very early morning and went to Rly station Silchar where from
she was taken to Tinsukia by the accused. There, at Tinsukia both of them
Started to live in a rented house. On 06-01-16 he married her against her
will and also had physical relation with her. On 18-01-16 both of them came
to her parents house at Silchar where from he was arrested by police.
Before that on the following day of the incident i.e. on 05-01-16 father of
the victim gave missing entry to Tarapur TOP. The same was entered vide
G.D.E. No. 106 dated 05-01-16 and subsequently it was registered as

Silchar P.S. Case No. 39/16 U/s 366-A IPC.

2. During investigation, victim was medically examined. She was also
produced before the Magistrate who recorded her statement U/S 164
Cr.P.C. Doctor opined her age as above 16 and below 18 years. On
completion of investigation I.0. submitted charge sheet against the accused
U/S 366 IPC R.W. Sec. 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence
(POCSO) Act 2012

3. On production of the accused, Learned J.M. Ist class furnished
copies of all necessary police papers to him and committed the offence.
After hearing of both sides and perusal of materials on the record, this
Court framed formal charges against the accused U/S 366 IPC and ___ also
under Sec.4 of POCSO Act. The charges were read over and explained to
the accused to which he pleaded not guilty. Hence, trial began.

4. To prove the case, prosecution examined as many as seven
witnesses (P.Ws) including the Doctor and the I.O. Defence plea is that at
the material time the victim was a major one and victim at her own will
went with the accused and at her free will got married with him.
Subsequently on their return she being tutored gave statement against the
accused. During examination of the the accused U/S 313 of Cr.P.C. it is
pleaded that the victim disclosed her age as 18 yrs. 7 months and she had
no objection in the marriage. After that they got married and he made
contact with her parents who expressed to accept him as their son-in-law.
He further stated that he then came to the house of her parents with the
victim and disclosed everything. However, he was handed over to police. He
further stated that he firmly believed that the victim was a major. He

pleaded his innocence.

5. From the above it appears that the accused virtually
admitted that he took the victim to Tinsukia and resided with her as

husband and wife in a rented house.

6. Now, under the above facts and circumstances of the
case, the moot question before this court is whether the victim was of

consenting age.

7. To decide the above point I have heard argument from

both sides and perused the entire evidence on the record. My findings and
decisions with reasons thereof are given below.

8. P.W.1 Dr. Orina Raha deposed that on 19-01-16 while she
was posted at S.M.C.H. Silchar in the deptt of Forensic Science on police
requisition in connection with Silchar P.S. case No. 39/16 U/S 366 IPC
examined the victim of this case. She further deposed that on the basis of
physical including dental examination, Laboratory and_ radiological
examination arrived to the opinion that the victim was above 16 and below
18 years. She denied the suggestion that as per Modis medical
jurisprudence when epiphyses fused with parent bone and when iliac crest
is fused, age of the individual would be above 18. She further denied the

suggestion that the age of individual at the material time was above 18.

9. PW. 2 — is the father of the victim. According to him at the
material time the victim was aged about 15 years and was reading in class-
IX.

10. PW. 3 — mother of the victim also deposed accordingly.

11. PW. 4— the victim. According to her evidence, on the date of
the occurrence at about 5.00 a.m. she on call of the accused went to
Silchar Rly. station, and therefrom with the accused went to Tinsukia where
she was kept in a rented house for one week. The accused put vermilion on
her forehead and conchs on her hands. During the stay, the accused had
physical relation with her. After that the accused brought her to her parents
house at Silchar where from the accused was taken by police. Ext-4 is the
statement. She denied the suggestion that she voluntarily went with the
accused. She however stated that she did not make any hue and cry at the

time of putting vermilion by the accused.
There is no cogent cross-examination on the point of her age.

12. PW. 5 — and P.W.6 being closed relative of the accused
adduced evidence as reported witness regarding the taking away of the

victim and handing over of the accused to police in their presence.

13. PW. 7 — is the I.0. who deposed about the receipt of
missing entry lodged by the father of the victim on 05-01-16. According to
him he was entrusted to investigate the case. He opened the MCD,
recorded the statement of the witness, visited the house of the
complainant and the Rly station. Subsequently on 18-01-16 from reliable
source it could be learnt that the accused and the victim were apprehended
by local people. He then went to the house of the complainant and
apprehended the accused and recorded statement of the victim. On

completion of investigation submitted charge sheet.

In the cross-examination he stated that on 18-01-16 in the
afternoon local people informed him about the visit of the accused and the
victim to the house of the complainant. On his visit to the house he saw

both the accused and the victim.

14. In the entire evidence there is no contradiction, any material
omission or any material discrepancy with regard to any point or

circumstances of this case.

15. It is evident that the victim went with the accused to Tinsukia
and resided there with the accused. According to the witnesses the accused
against her will resided with her as her husband in a rented house and

against her will had physical relation with her. According to the accused the
victim having love affairs with him voluntarily went with him and he had no
malafide intention. Further according to the defence contention had there
been any malifide intention the accused would not have returned to the
house of the complainant with the victim and that too just after few days
of the incident. According to the accused he believing the age of the victim

as above 18 took her and married her.

16. The above being the admitted position material point is to
determined whether at the material time the victim was below 18.
According to P.W.1 M.O. the victim was below 18 and above 16. It is
evident from corroborative evidence that, the victim was a student of class-
IX at the material time and that fact remains almost unrebutted. This peace
of evidence is also supported by the evidence that her immediate elder
sister at the material time was a student of class XII and eldest brother was
a student of B.A 2nd semester. Similarly her younger sister was reading in
class-VII. Under such circumstances the age as disclosed in the medical

evidence can be accepted.

17. Upon consideration of the above and the evidence in its entirety it
can _ rightly be arrived at that the prosecution has been able to establish
that at the material time the victim was below 18 years of age. That being
so, consent of the victim is totally immaterial. Therefore admitted physical
relation of the accused with the victim would bring home the offence guilty
U/S 4 of the POCSO Act. Although it is evident that the victim in response to
telephonic call went to the rly. station but it cannot be said that there was
no inducement on the part of the accused to take the victim to Tinsukia.
The going of the victim under the facts of the circumstances of the case is
sufficient enough to establish the offence U/S 366 IPC.

18. In view of the above discussion of evidence, contention and
consideration of evidence on its entirety it is held that prosecution case is
proved beyond all reasonable doubt U/S 366 IPC and Sec.4 of POCSO Act.
Therefore, the accused is held guilty and convicted accordingly.

19, Heard the accused on the question of sentence. He has stated
that he is having aged widow sick mother and he is the only son and has no
own brother and sister. There is none to look aftr her mother who resides
at a distance place. He thus submitted for lenient punishment. Learned
defence counsel also prayed for lenient punishment. Learned P.P. during
argument also considering the facts and circumstances of the case

submitted for showing leniency to the accused.

20. Having considered the above, young age of the accused
and the circumstances of this case under which the victim went with the
accused to Tinsukia and their return to the house of the complainant i.e.
father of the victim with an expectation that the accused would be accepted
as son-in-law of the complainant, I have taken lenient view. Therefore,
under such special circumstances I convict and sentence the accused U/S
366 IPC to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment (R.I.) for a period of two years
along with fine of Rs. 2000/- and in default shall further undergo R.I. for a
period of one month. Accused is also convicted and sentenced U/s 4 of
POCSO Act to suffer R.I. for a period of three years and shall also sentence
to pay a fine of Rs. 5000/- and in default shall further undergo R.I. for a
period of two months. Both the sentences shall run concurrently. Period of

custody shall be set off from the above sentence.

21. The above fine if realized shall be paid to the victim as
compensation. In addition to that further compensation may be paid in case
of any prayer made by the victim or any of her parents before the
Secretary, DLSA who shall after proper enquiry shall determine adequate

compensation.

22. Copy of the Judgment be furnished to the accused free
of cost as per provision of Sec. 363 Cr.P.C. and to be forwarded to the
District Magistrate as per provision of Sec. 365 Cr.P.C. A copy of the
Judgment is also be forwarded to the Secretary DLSA for taking necessary

step on his part if any.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open

Court under my seal and signature on this 14th day of September., 2016.

(Shri K. Choudhury)
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

Dictated & corrected by me.

(Shri K. Choudhury)
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

Dictation taken & transcribed by me.

(Pramotesh Dey)
Stenographer. Grade-I
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR.

Spl. POCSO. 12/2016.
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1— Dr. Orina Raha

PW. 2— Tamjan Rongmai.

PW. 3-— Mrs. Lanthaile Rongmei..
PW. 4— Lalboan Rongamei.

PW. 5 — Gaijailong Rongmei.

PW. 6 — Lingthalungampow Naga.
PW. 7 — Horipada Dey.(I.0.).

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL.

(C) COURT WITNESSES: - NIL.

(D) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — Medical Report.
Ext. 1 (1)& 1(2)— Signature of P.W.1.
Ext.-1(3): Signature of Dr. G. Das.

Ext-1(4) - History narrated by victim..
Ext-1(5) - |Report of Dr. Debalok Chakraborty.
Ext-1(6) Signature of P.W.4

Ext-2 Police requisition.

Ext-2(1) - Signature of Dr. Orina Raha.
Ext-2(2) Signature of P.W.7

Ext. 3 — Missing entry.

Ext. 3(1)— Signature of PW-2.

Ext-3(2) - | Signature of I/C of Tarapur out post.
Ext-3(3) Signature of the then O/C of Silchar P.S.

Ext. 4 — Statement of P.W.4.

Ext. 4 (1) & 4(2)— Signature of PW-4.
Ext-5 Sketch map.

Ext-5(1) Signature of P.W.7.
Ext-6 Charge sheet.

Ext-6(1) Signature of P.W.7
(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ Nil.

(Shri K. Choudhuy),
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.
