 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 42 (T) of 2018

U/s 6 of the POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM —___haacaeesacseeceeeeeesenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Thepeng Karua @ Sunil
S/o- Sri Muhan Karua
R/o- Betjan T.E, No.2. Jungle Line
P.S- Makum
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM ok. eeeeeeeeeee tees eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor —.......... For the State
N.K. Phukan
Advocate under DLSA ..............08 For the accused.
Date of Argument: 12/06/2019

Date of Judgment: 12/06/2019

}jJ UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. The accused and the victim were in love with each
other. The accused had sexual intercourse with the victim and
when she became pregnant for five months, her mother
detected the matter. The mother of the victim wanted to give
her daughter to the accused in marriage, but the family
members as well as the accused himself refused to accept the

victim.

2. During the period of investigation, the victim girl was
Subjected to medical examination. She was also produced
before a Magistrate for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

3. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had aggravated penetrative sexual

assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. In this case, the victim was born on 12/10/2000. The
occurrence of this case took place between 01/01/2018 and
07/08/2018.
5. The victim girl has stated in her evidence that she was
in love with the accused and therefore, she had sexual
intercourse with the accused for ten times and for that matter,
she became pregnant. The victim girl has stated that her
mother had approached the parents of the accused and they
refused to accept her as their daughter-in-law. For that matter,
the mother of the victim has lodged an ejahar before police.

6. The mother of the victim girl has stated that when she
came to know from her daughter that she was five months
pregnant, she talked to the parents of the accused, in order to
give her daughter in marriage to the accused. The mother of
the victim girl has stated that the parents of the accused had
denied the paternity of the child, that was being carried by the

victim.

ds Here in this case, both the mother of the victim and the
victim have been cross examined by the Ld. defence counsel. |
have no hesitation to hold that the cross examination portions
of their evidences do not have any material worth for an
elaborate discussion. In this case, the victim was a consenting
party to the act of the accused. There is no doubt that the
victim was more than 16 years old, though she was below 18
years of age. Therefore, the victim had the legal competence

to give consent for sexual intercourse.

8. Thus, the prosecution evidence has failed to prove that
the victim girl was subjected to aggravated penetrative sexual
assault by the accused. I, therefore, hold that the offence of
aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl by
the accused has not been proved beyond all reasonable
doubts.
ORDER

9. In the result, the accused Thepeng Karua @ Sunil Karua
is found not guilty and accordingly the accused is acquitted
from this case. Presently, the accused is in jail hazot, so he be
set at liberty forthwith.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
12th day of June, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P EN DI X

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Smti Lila Karua

2. PW2 - Smti Radhi Karua
PROSECUTION EXHIBITS
1. Ext.1- Statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.PC
2. M. Ext. 1- Birth certificate of victim
DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
