1|Page

In the court of Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu,

Assam

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu

Special (POCSO) Case No. 16 of 2017
corresponding to GR Case No. 231 of 2017

Diphu P.S case No. 49/17 Under Section 4 of

the POCSO Act

State of Assam

Versus

Bijay Chakraborty.

Name of informant/complainant:

Smti. Buli Borah

W/o Shri Bupa Ram Borah
Village: Baghmari, Ward No. 4
P.S : Diphu

District: Karbi Anglong.

State: Assam

Name of the accused person facing trial:

Advocates appeared:

Shri Bijoy Chakraborty.
S/o Shri Amol Chakraborty
Village: Baghmari

Ward No. 4

P.S: Diphu

District: Karbi Anglong.
Assam

For the prosecution: Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor

For the defence : Mrs. Nipa Das
Date(s) fixed for Evidence: 09-07-2018,16-07-2018,24-07-2018,
2|Page

Date(s ) fixed for Argument : 08-08-201
Date(s) fixed for Judgment: 16-08-2018

1.

UDGMENT

It is a case of kidnapping of minor female having age of
14 years and “aggravated penetrative sexual assault” on
her by the kidnapper as a result she became mother of his
child.

The prosecution case in brief is that on 02--04-2017,
the informant named above lodged a written ejahar with
Diphu Police Station stating inter alia that on 01-04-2017
at 4 am her victim daughter went out from the house for
going to school like other days but she did not come home
back till next day and in-spite of best effort her where
about could not be traced out. On receipt of the ejahar, the
O/C, Diphu Police Station registered a criminal case vides
Diphu Police Station Case No.49-2017 under section 363 of
the IPC and started investigation. On recovery of the victim
after almost 1 % years, the section 4 of the POCSO Act was
got added. On completion of investigation charge sheet
was submitted under section 363 of the IPC/ 4 of the
POCSO Act against the accused person. Hence the
prosecution has come up.

The accused person has been facing trial from jail hajot.
Copy was furnished to him. Having very carefully gone
through submissions of both sides as well as case diary |
found there was ground for presuming that the accused
person committed the offence under sections 363 of the
IPC/ 6 of the POCSO Act and accordingly the charges were
framed. The particular of the offences charged was duly
read over and explained to him to which he pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.
3|Page

4.

During trial the prosecution has examined as many as 5
(five) prosecution witness in support of its case. The
accused person has been examined under section 313 of
the CrPC. The defence has examined none. Plea of defence
is that the victim fled away with the accused person on her
sweet will out of love and that the accused was not aware
of age of the victim.

Points for determination:-

a. Whether 01-04-2017 at 4 am at Baghmari under
Diphu Police Station the accused person kidnapped
the victim child having age of 14 years out of lawful
guardianship without his/her consent?

b. Whether 01-04-17 or after at Baghmari or any other
place the accused person committed aggravated
penetrative sexual assault upon the victim child?

Decisions and reasons there of:

| have very carefully gone through verbal marathon
arguments advanced by the learned counsel of both sides
as well as evidence on record. In the very outset, the
learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused person
has contended that the prosecution has miserably failed to
prove its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubts. On the other hand, the learned Public
Prosecutor, Mr.D.K.Deka refuting the aforesaid submission
has submitted that the prosecution has succeeded in
establishing its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions,
it would be appropriate to give a glance at evidence
record.

Appreciation of evidence on record
4|Page

7. PW-1 is Smt. Buli Bora who has stated in her evidence that
she is the informant of this case. She knows the accused
person. At the time of occurrence the victim girl was 14
years old. The occurrence took place about 1 % years ago.
On the day of occurrence her victim daughter went out for
going to school early in the morning but she did not return
home back. Thereafter she started searching her victim
daughter but she couldn’t find her where about. Next day
she lodged a written ejahar with the Police Station. Ext-1 is
her ejahar and Ext-1(1) is her signature. After 1 ¥Y% years of
the occurrence the accused along with her victim daughter
came to the house of his uncle who brought them to the
police station. After getting the information she came to
the police station and found her victim daughter there,
then she came to know that her victim daughter was the
mother of 3 months old child. Police got her victim
daughter medically examined and recorded her stated in
the court. Court handed over the custody of the victim
daughter to her. Now the victim daughter is with her. Police
seized one birth certificate of the victim daughter from her.
Ext-2 is the seizure list. Ext-2(1) is my signature. She has
seen the seized birth certificate along with Case Record.

8. PW-2 is the victim who has stated in her evidence that the
informant is her mother. The occurrence took place about 1
1% years back. At the time of occurrence she was 15 years.
She knows the accused person. On the day of occurrence
she fled away with the accused person to Guwahati. Taking
her to Guwahati the accused kept her in a rent house. She
was having a love affair with the accused person. In
Guwahati she was staying with the accused as husband
and wife. She has a female child having age of 6 months
from the side of accused. After 1 Y% years the accused took
her to the house of his uncle situated at Bagmari. There
after the accused took her to the police station. Police got
5|Page

her medically examined and recorded her statement in the
court. Ext-3 is the statement. At present she is staying with
the child in her parental house.

9. PW-3 is Shri Samal Kumar Das who has stated in his
evidence that he knows the accused, the victim and the
informant of this case. The occurrence took place about 1
1%, years ago. At the time of occurrence the age of the
victim daughter was 14 years. On the next day of the
occurrence the informant informed him that on previous
day her victim daughter went out for going to school but
did not return back home. After lodging ejahar to the police
station he came to know that the accused eloped away her
victim daughter. After 1 % years the accused came to the
police station along with the victim daughter. Now the
victim girl is staying with her mother. She have a female
child of 5 months from the accused side.

10. PW-4 is Smt. Sabitri Das who stated in his
evidence that the informant is her sister. She knows the
accused. At the time of occurrence the victim girl was 14
years old. After 1 % years of the occurrence the accused
along with the victim girl came to the police station. At
that time the victim girl was having a child from the side of
accused. At present the victim girl is staying with her

mother.

11. PW-5 is Sri Dipen Das who has stated in his
evidence that on-20-3-2018 was working as Officer-in-
charge of Diphu Police Station and on that he took case of
Diphu Police Station Case No. 49-2017 in his file.
Thereafter on persistent effort given on investigation on
03-05-2018 he managed to bring the accused to police
station and to recover the victim child from the possession
of the accused person. The victim child being a mother of a
child from the accused side did not agree for getting her
6|Page

medically examined. He got the statement of the victim
child recorded in the court. Earlier Sl Laba Kalita seized a
birth certificate of the victim child. Ext-2 is the said seizure
list. M-Ext-1 is the seized birth certificate. On completion of
investigation, he submitted charge sheet under sections
363 of the IPC/4 of the POCSO Act against the accused

person.

12. First of all let us see whether the victim was a
child in terms of the 2(d) of the POCSO Act or not. The
victim herself has stated in her testimony that at the time
of occurrence she was 15 years old. Ext-3 is the statement
of the victim which shows that at the time of occurrence
she was reading in class VIII. The informant who is the
mother of the victim is the best person who can say as to
what was the actual age of the victim at the time of
occurrence. According to her, at the time of the
occurrence, the victim 14 years and her evidence finds
Support from the evidence of PW-3 and PW-4. M-Ext-1
shows that the victim was born on 03-02-2003. On
calculation basing on date of birth of the victim given on
M-Ext-1, it appears that at the time of occurrence, she was
14 years 1 month 28 days. M-Ext-1 shows that at the time
of occurrence the victim just completed 14 years. During
the cross-examination of PW-1, PW-3 and PW-4, the
defence has not disputed their evidence in respect of age
of the victim. The accused has stated in his statement
recorded under section 313 CrPC that he was not aware of
the age of the victim. Defence has not led any evidence to
substantiate that at the time of the occurrence the victim
was above 18 years. Taking all aspects into consideration |
am compelled to hold that at the time of occurrence, the
victim was below 15 years. Hence, the victim can be said
to be child in the terms of the section 2(d) of POCSO Act.
7|Page

13. In such a case evidence of the victim child plays
very vital role and prosecution case lies on her evidence.
Ext-1 is the FIR which shows that after lodging the same
the informant who is the mother of the victim child. Came
to know that accused kidnapped he victim child who was
(fourteen) 14 years old. The victim girl marked as PW-2 has
stated that on the day of occurrence she fled away with
the accused person to Guwahati wherein he kept her in a
rented house. She was staying in the said rented house
with the accused person as husband and wife and became
mother of a female child who is at present 6 months old.
Her evidence also shows that after 1 % year from the date
of occurrence the accused took her to the house of his
uncle situated at Baghmari and there from the accused
took her to Police station. PW-5 is the investigating officer
who has stated in his testimony that on persistent effort he
managed to recover the victim child from the possession of
the accused person. The defence has not disputed the fact
that the accused kept the victim child in a rented house at
Guwahati wherein she was staying with him as husband
and wife as a result of which she became mother of a
female child.

14. The learned advocate appearing on behalf of the
accused person has submitted that in fact no offence
punishable under section 363 IPC or under section 6 of the
POCSO Act was constituted as she fled away with the
accused person on her sweet will and started living as
husband and wife after solemnization of marriage. The
victim child marked as PW-2 has stated in her cross
examination that she fled away with the accused person
out of love and after fleeing away they entered into
wedlock. She has further stated that she has been living
peaceful and cordial conjugal life with the accused person
and that on misunderstanding her mother lodged this
case. There is no evidence on record showing that any sort
8| Page

of marriage between the accused and the victim child was
taken place. They were living together as husband and
wife without obtaining any endorsement. For constitution
of any offence under the provisions of POCSO Act consent
of the victim child is totally immaterial. Cross examination
of informant marked as PW-1 who is the mother of the
victim shows that at present she is not interested to
proceed with the case and that she does not desire the
accused to be punished.

15. The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012 defines a ‘child’ to mean ‘any person below the
age of eighteen years’ and raised the age of consent from
16 years under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) to 18 years.
The Act provides for a wide range of sexual offences
including penetrative sexual assault, non-penetrative
sexual assault (kissing, fondling), and non-contact based
sexual acts such as sexual harassment. Unlike the IPC,
which treats sexual intercourse by a man with his wife
above the age of 15 years as an exception to rape, the
POCSO Act does not permit any exception. In fact,
penetrative sexual assault and non-penetrative sexual
assault by a person who is related to a child through
marriage constitutes an aggravated offence.

16. The Hon'ble Apex Court has discussed about the
consent of the victim child in the case of Independent
Thought v. Union of India reported “ (2017) 10 SCC
800” and observed thus:-

“53. It is obvious from a brief survey of the various
statutes referred to above that a child is a person below 18
years of age who is entitled to the protection of her human
rights including the right to live with dignity; if she is
unfortunately married while a child, she is protected from
domestic violence, both physical and mental, as well as
9|Page

from physical and sexual abuse; if she is unfortunately
married while a child, her marriage is in violation of the law
and therefore an offence and such a marriage is voidable
at her instance and the person marrying her is committing
a punishable offence; the husband of the girl child would
be committing aggravated penetrative sexual assault
when he has sexual intercourse with her and is thereby
committing a punishable offence under the Pocso Act. The
only jarring note in this scheme of the pro-child legislations
is to be found in Exception 2 to Section 375 IPC which
provides that sexual intercourse with a girl child between
15 and 18 years of age is not rape if the sexual intercourse
is between the girl child and her husband. Therefore, the
question of punishing the husband simply does not arise. A
girl child placed in such circumstances is a child in need of
care and protection and needs to be cared for, protected
and appropriately rehabilitated or restored to society. All
these “child-friendly statutes” are essential for the well-
being of the girl child (whether married or not) and are
protected by Article 15(3) of the Constitution. These child-
friendly statutes also link child marriages and sexual
intercourse with a girl child and draw attention to the
adverse consequences of both.”

17. Regarding object of the POCSO Act, the Hon'ble
Apex has’ observed in case of Eera v. State (NCT of
Delhi) reported in “(2017) 15 SCC 133”
thus :-“20. The purpose of referring to the Statement of
Objects and Reasons and the Preamble of the Pocso Act is
to appreciate that the very purpose of bringing a
legislation of the present nature is to protect the children
from the sexual assault, harassment and exploitation, and
to secure the best interest of the child. On an avid and
diligent discernment of the Preamble, it is manifest that it
recognises the necessity of the right to privacy and
confidentiality of a child to be protected and respected by
10|Page

every person by all means and through all stages of a
judicial process involving the child. Best interest and well-
being are regarded as being of paramount importance at
every stage to ensure the healthy physical, emotional,
intellectual and social development of the child. There is
also a stipulation that sexual exploitation and sexual abuse
are heinous offences and need to be effectively addressed.
The Statement of Objects and Reasons provides regard
being had to the constitutional mandate, to direct its policy
towards securing that the tender age of children is not
abused and their childhood is’ protected against
exploitation and they are given facilities to develop in a
healthy manner and in conditions of freedom and dignity.
There is also a mention which is quite significant that
interest of the child, both as a victim as well as a witness,
needs to be protected. The stress is on providing child-
friendly procedure. Dignity of the child has been laid
immense emphasis in the scheme of legislation. Protection
and interest occupy the seminal place in the text of
the Pocso Act.”.

18. The purpose of the Pocso Act is to treat the
minors as a class by itself and treat them separately so
that no offence is committed against them as regards
sexual assault, sexual harassment and sexual abuse. The
Sanguine purpose is to safeguard the interest and well-
being of the children at every stage of judicial proceeding.
It provides for a child-friendly procedure. It categorically
makes a distinction between a child and an adult. On a
reading of the Pocso Act, it is clear to us that it is gender

neutral

19. Aggravated penetrative sexual assault is defined in
the section 5 of the POCSO Act which reads _ thus:-“
Aggravated penetrative sexual assault.-
a. Whoever, being a police officer, commits penetrative
11|Page

sexual assault on a child i. within the limits of the
police station or premises at which he is appointed;
or ii. in the premises of any station house, whether or
not situated in the police station, to which he is appointed;
or iil. in the course of his duties or otherwise;
or iv. where he is known as, or identified as, a police
officer; or b. whoever being a member of the armed
forces or security forces commits penetrative sexual
assault on a child- i. within the limits of the area to
which the person is deployed; oii. in any areas under
the command of the forces or armed forces; o_ iii. in
the course of his duties or otherwise; or iv. where the
Said person is known or identified as a member of the
security or armed forces; or c. whoever being a public
servant commits penetrative sexual assault on a child; or
d. whoever being on the management or on the staff of a
jail, remand home, protection home, observation home, or
other place of custody or care and protection established
by or under any law for the time being in force, commits
penetrative sexual assault on a child, being inmate of such
jail, remand home, protection home, observation home, or
other place of custody or care and _ protection; or
e. whoever being on the management or staff of a
hospital, whether Government or private, commits
penetrative sexual assault on a child in that hospital; or
f. whoever being on the management or staff of an
educational institution or religious institution, commits
penetrative sexual assault on a child in that institution; or
g. whoever commits gang penetrative sexual assault on
a child. Explanation.- When a child is subjected to sexual
assault by one or more persons of a group in furtherance
of their common intention, each of such persons shall be
deemed to have committed gang penetrative sexual
assault within the meaning of this clause and each of such
person shall be liable for that act in the same manner as if

it were done by him alone; or h. whoever commits
12|Page

penetrative sexual assault on a child using deadly
weapons, fire, heated substance or corrosive substance; or
i. whoever commits penetrative sexual assault causing
grievous hurt or causing bodily harm and injury or injury to
the sexual organs of the child; or j. whoever commits
penetrative sexual assault on a child,
which- i. physically incapacitates the child or causes
the child to become mentally ill as defined under clause (I)
of section 2 of the Mental Health Act, 1987 or causes
impairment of any kind so as to render the child unable to
perform regular tasks, temporarily or permanently;
or ii. in the case of female child, makes the child
pregnant aS a consequence of sexual assault
lil. inflicts the child with Human Immunodeficiency
Virus or any other life threatening disease or infection
which may either temporarily or permanently impair the
child by rendering him physically incapacitated, or
mentally ill to perform regular tasks; or k. whoever,
taking advantage of a child's mental or physical disability,
commits penetrative sexual assault on the child; or
I. whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on the
child more than once or repeatedly; or m. whoever
commits penetrative sexual assault on a child below
twelve years; orn. whoever being a relative of the child
through blood or adoption or marriage or guardianship or
in foster care or having a domestic relationship with a
parent of the child or who is living in the same or shared
household with the child, commits penetrative sexual
assault on such child; or o. whoever being, in the
ownership, or management, or staff, of any institution
providing services to the child, commits penetrative sexual
assault on the child; or p. whoever being in a position of
trust or authority of a child commits penetrative sexual
assault on the child in an institution or home of the child or
anywhere else; or gq. whoever commits penetrative

sexual assault on a child knowing the child is pregnant;
13 | Page

orr. whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a
child and attempts to murder the child; or s. whoever
commits penetrative sexual assault on a child in the course
of communal or sectarian violence; or t. whoever
commits penetrative sexual assault on a child and who has
been previously convicted of having committed any
offence under this Act or any sexual offence punishable
under any other law for the time being in force; or
u. whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a
child and makes the child to strip or parade naked in
public, is said to commit aggravated penetrative sexual
assault

20. The section 6 is related to punishment for the
section 5 of the POCSO Act which reads_ thus:-“6.
Punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual
assault.- Whoever, commits aggravated penetrative
sexual assault, shall be punished with rigorous
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten
years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and
Shall also be liable to fine.”

21. Under section 29 of the POCSO Act, 2012 the court
can draw presumption that the accused person was
involved in the occurrence in question if the defence fails
to prove contrary to the fact where upon the prosecution
relies. The said section reads thus:-“29. Presumption as
to certain offences.-Where a person is prosecuted for
committing or abetting or attenuating to commit any
offence under sections 3,5,7 and section 9 of this Act, the
Special Court shall presume, that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence,
as the case may be unless the contrary is proved.” In the
instant case the defence has only taken plea that the
accused was not aware about the age of the victim. It is
14|Page

the established principle that no benefit is given on ground
of ignorance of law. In the instant case the defence the
defence has failed to bring the contrary to the prosecution

version.

22. In view of discussions made above and the
observations made in the case laws cited above, | have
come to conclusion that the prosecution has succeeded in
establishing its case that the accused person kidnapped
the victim child who was below 15 years out of lawful
guardianship and committed aggravated penetrative
sexual assault upon her as a result she became mother of
a female child.

ORDER

23. In the result, | find the accused person guilty
under sections 363 of the IPC/ 6 of the POCSO Act and
accordingly he is convicted.

24. On the Point of Sentence the accused person is
heard and to that effects. It is found that the accused
person is only earning member of his family consisting of
his wife one child and himself. The accused has prayed for
leniency in sentencing him. There is no evidence on record
showing that the accused was earlier convicted by the
court of law. It has been submitted by the learned defence
counsel that it is a fit case where the court may extend
benefit laid down in the provisions of the Probation
Offenders Act. She has further submitted that if the
accused person is sentenced with imprisonment, his new
conjugal life will be jeopardized and his baby will be
deprived of his affection and care. Anatomically a female
child having age of 15 years is not totally fit for leading
conjugal life. It is a special legislation being brought in
order to curving out the menace arising out of practice of
15|Page

child marriage prevailing in our society. The accused is a
boy of 22 years whom can be considered to be sufficiently
matured. It is the established principle that plea of
ignorance of the law is not acceptable. It is the pious duty
of every citizen should abstain of doing anything which is
not allowed by the law of the land. Taking object of the act
into consideration the accused Bijoy Chakraborty is
ordered to suffer RI of 2 years and to pay fine of Rs. 500/-
i/d Sl of 1 month for the section 363 IPC. He is further
ordered to suffer RI of 10 years and to pay fine of Rs.
1000/- i/d SI of 2 months for the section 6 of the POCSO
Act. Both the sentences will run concurrently. Set off earlier
detention period. Let a copy of the Judgment and order be
supplied to the accused person at free of cost. Let a copy
of this Judgment be sent to District Magistrate, Karbi
Anglong in terms of section 365 of the CrPC.

25. It is evident that at present victim child with her
6 month old child is staying in her parental house. Though
there is no direct evidence on record showing financial
condition of the parents of the victim child but it is evident
that the financial condition of the accused is not at all
sound. There is also doubt the parents of the accused will
come forward to provide maintenance to the victim child
for herself and her child. Under aforesaid premises | am of
the opinion that the victim child needs adequate financial
assistance for her rehabilitation. Hence | recommend
adequate compensation to be paid to the victim child and
her 6 months old child under scheme of Victim
Compensation laid down under section 357 A of the CrPC.
DLSA, Diphu, Karbi Anglong shall take necessary steps in
this regard. In the mean time the victim child is awarded
with interim compensation of Rs. 25000/- . DLSA, Diphu
Karbi Anglong is asked to make the interim compensation
to the victim child as stated above. Let a copy of the order
be sent to DLSA for information and necessary action.
16|Page

26. Let Judgment be uploaded in the official website.
Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

27. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this
16" August, 2018 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS )
Special Judge Special Judge

Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi Anglong,

Assam

The prosecution examined:-

1. PW-1 is Smt. Buli Bora

PW-2 is Smt. Babli Chakraborty
PW-3 is Shri Samal Kumar Das
PW-4 is Smt. Sabitri Das

PW-5 is Sri Dipen Das

aoe ow

The prosecution exhibited:

1. Ext-1 is ejahar

2. Ext-2 is seizure list.

3. Ext-3 is statement.

4, M-Ext-1 is Birth Certificate.

Defence examined & exhibited: Nil.

Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong,
Assam
17 |Page
