1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present

Md. A.U. Ahmed, AJS,

Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 14/2015 corresponding to
GR Case No. 901/2015 & Bokajan Police Station
Case No. 180/2015 Under Sections 354(B) of
the IPC/8 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Md Abdul Kadir

Name of informant/complainant:

Shri Rongsar Bey

S/O Late Mojasing Bey
Village: Bormanthi

PS: Bokajan

District: Karbi Anglong

Name of the accused person facing trial:

Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution

For the defence

Argument heard on

Md Abdul Kadir

S/O Md Mamtaz Ali

Village: Rongkimi Natun Basti
PS: Bokajan

District: Karbi Anglong

: Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor.
: Mr J. Paul.
: 30.07.2019.

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 08.08.2019.
2|Page

JUDGMENT

1. It is a case of attempt to commit offence covered by
the Sec.4 of the POCSO Act alleged to have been committed

by the accused person.

Ze The prosecution case in brief is that on 02.10.2015, the
informant-Shri Rongsar Bey lodged an ejahar with the O/C of
Bokajan Police Station stating inter alia that on the same day
at about 7:30 PM, the accused called his niece, Smti. Sumi
Rongpharpi over phone and lured her away with ill intent
towards Sukanjn Forest Office and outraged her modesty by
scuffling with her. At that time, local people witnessed the
occurrence and apprehended the accused. Thereafter, they
handed him over to the police station On receipt of the
ejahar, O/C Bokajan Police Station registered a case vide its
PS case No.180/2015 under section 354 (B) of IPC R/W Sec.
8 of the POCSO Act. On completion of investigation, I.O.
submitted the charge-sheet under the registered sections of
law against the accused person. Hence the prosecution has

come.

3. On completion of appearance of the accused person,
copy was furnished to him. After perusal of the case record
along with case diary and hearing learned lawyers of both
sides, I found sufficient grounds for presuming that the
accused person attempted to commit the offence under
section 18 of the POCSO Act R/W Section 4 of the same act.
Accordingly, the charge was framed against him. The
particular of the charged offence was duly read over and
explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.
3|Page

4. During trial prosecution has examined as many as six
witnesses. Statement of the accused person was recorded
under section 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence declined to adduce

evidence. Plea of defence is of total denial.

5. Point for determination is:

Whether the accused person on 02.10.2015 at about
7:30 PM at the jungle of Bormanthi village under Bokajan PS
attempted to commit offence covered by the section 4 of the
POCSO Act upon Smti Sumi Rongpharpi aged 12 years and
thereby committed an offence and that he_ thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 18 of the
POCSO Act read with section 4 of the said Act.

6. Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through verbal arguments
advanced by the learned counsels of both sides as well as
evidence on record. At the very outset, the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the accused person has contended
that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case
against the accused person. On the other hand, the learned
Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the aforesaid
submission has submitted that the prosecution has
succeeded in establishing its case against the accused
person beyond all reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the
rival submissions, it would be appropriate to give a glance at

evidence record.

7. PW-1 is Shri Rongsar Bey who has stated in his
evidence that he is the informant of this case. He knows the

accused person as well as the victim girl. The occurrence
4|Page

took place in the year 2015. On the day of occurrence at
about 6:30 PM, the villagers apprehended the accused and
brought him to their house because his uncle-Shri Barsing
Bey was the Govt. Gaonburah at that time. He was present
at home at that time. According to the version of the
villagers, when the accused tried to pull the hand of the
victim they saw and apprehended him. Thereafter, they
produced the accused before the Govt. Gaonbura, i.e. his
uncle to decide the matter alleged by the villagers. In this
regard, police was informed and accordingly, police came
and took the accused and the victim to the police station.
Then, he lodged the ejahar at Bokajan Police Station. Ext.1 is
the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his signature. The victim is his
relative. At that time, the victim was 12/13 years old. Police
got the victim examined in the hospital and her statement

recorded in the Court.

8. PW-2 is Shri Nabin Tisso who has deposed in his
evidence that he knows the informant, the accused and the
victim. The incident took place in the year 2015. On the day
of occurrence at about 6:30 PM while he was coming out of
his house, he saw some people taking the accused to the
house of Govt. Gaonburah. On being asked, the people told
him that the accused pulled the victim by catching her hand
and seeing the said scene, the villagers apprehended the
accused and brought him to the house of the Govt.
Gaonburah. The Gaonburah told him that he would have to
be the witness in this case. Later on, police came to the
house of the Gaonburah and took the accused to the police
station. At that time, the victim was 12/13 years old and the

police also took her to the police station.
5|Page

9. PW-3 is Shri Jana Bey who has deposed in the
deposition that he knows the informant, the victim and the
accused person. He himself did not see the occurrence. On
the night of occurrence, he went to the house of the Govt.
Gaonburah. At that time, the accused was found being tied
by the villagers at the house of the Gaonburah. He came to
know from the people gathered there that while the accused
was scuffling with the victim by catching her body, the
villagers apprehended him and took him to the house of the

Gaonburah. He did not ask the victim about the occurrence.

10. PW-4 is Md Rajib Ali who has stated in his evidence
that he does not know the informant and he saw the
accused for the first time at the house of the Gaonburha.
The incident took place in the year 2015. On the day of
occurrence at about 3:30 PM while he and his friend, Md
Imanul Hussain were going along the road on foot, some
villagers met them and proposed to go to the house of the
Gaonburah. On reaching there, he saw the accused being
tied. While he asked the Gaonburah about the reason of
apprehending the accused, he was informed that the
accused was caught in connection with an offence relating to

girl. Then he left the place.

11. PW-5 is Dr Karik Kropi who testified in her deposition
that on 03.10.2015 when she was attached with Diphu civil
Hospital as Sr. M & H.O., she examined Smti. Sumi
Rongpharpi in connection with Bokajan PS Case No.
180/2015 and found no external mark of injury on her body.
On her genital part also, she found no injury mark. Hymen of
the victim was intact. As per X-ray report, the victim was
below 18 years. Sexual involvement was also absent. Ext.2 is

the medical report and Ext.2(1) is his signature.
6|Page

12. PW-6 is Md Enamul Ahmed who stated that he did not
know the informant, but Knows the accused person. He does
not know about the scuffling done by the accused with the
victim for his ill motive. He had undergone an operation on
his head on 18% September and thereafter, he forgot the
happenings of the past.

13. According to PW-1 and PW-2, at the time of the
occurrence the victim was 12-13 years old. PW-5 is the
medical officer on 03-10-2015 who has stated that the victim
was below 18 years. The accused is entitled to benefit of
principle of margin error of two years in upper limit. In the
instant case upper limit is 18 years. Hence there is doubt

that at the time of the occurrence the victim was a child.

14. In the instant case the victim is the most vital witness.
The evidence record does not show that any one saw the
occurrence. According to PW-6, he did not know anything
about the occurrence. Similarly the evidence of PW-4 is silent
that he saw the occurrence. From the evidence of PW-1 to
PW-3 it appears that they came to know that the accused
had pulled the victim by holding of her hand.

15. | The prosecution could not examine the victim as her
where about could not be traced out. Hear say evidence is a
weak piece of evidence. Hence in my considered opinion that

non-examination of the victim is fatal to the prosecution.

ORDER

 

16. In the result I find that the prosecution has failed to

prove its case against the accused person Md. Abdul Kadir
7|Page

beyond all reasonable doubts. Hence on benefit of doubt the
accused Md. Abdul Kadir is hereby acquitted from the
charges brought against him and let him be set at liberty
forthwith. The bail bond shall be stood cancelled after 6 (six)

months.
17. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.
18. Given under hand and seal of this court today, the 8"

day of August, 2019.

Dictated and corrected

by me.

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
