CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 76/15

Informant: = Sri Barna Torkod,
S/o- Sri Johan Torkod,
R/o- 319 No. Khowang Grant,
PS- Khowang,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Sutu Kalandi,
S/o- Late Ashok Kalandi,
R/o- Boline, Khowang Tea Estate,
PS- Khowang,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. U Rauth, learnd Legal Aid Counsel.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 76/15
G.R. Case No. 3102/15

State of Assam
‘i Vs-

Sri Sutu Kalandi

Charges: Under Sections 366-A of the IPC, read with Section 5(1)/6 of the

POCSO Act

Date of evidence on : 29-02-16, 25-05-16, 22-06-16 & 02-05-17.
Date of argument : 30-05-17.
Date of Judgment __: 13-06-17.

1)

2)

3)

JUDGMENT

A brief account of the case is that on 24-10-15, at about 3:00 pm, the victim
say-X went amiss. The family members embarked upon a frantic search, but
could not find the victim X who was missing from her house. An ejahar
regarding this incident was lodged by the victim’s elder brother Sri Barna
Torkod. A Khowang PS Case No. 44/15 under Section 365 of the Indian Penal
Code (IPC in short) was registered and the investigating officer (IO in short)
was endorsed with the investigation.

The IO embarked upon the investigation. He recovered the victim and
forwarded her for medical examination and for recording her statement under
Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC in short). He went to
the place of occurrence and prepared the Sketch-Map and recorded the
statements of the witnesses. On finding prima facie materials, he submitted
Charge-Sheet against the accused under Section 366-A IPC, read with Section
4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO in
short).

On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished. After hearing both the
sides, a formal charge under Section 366-A of the IPC, read with Section
5(1)/6 of the POCSO Act was framed and read over and explained to the
4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

9)

accused. The accused abjured his guilt and claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of six
witnesses and the defence cross-examined the witnesses extensively to
refute the charges.
On the circumstances arising against him, the tenor of the answers of the
accused person to the questions under Section 313 (1) (b) of the CrPC
depicts the plea of total denial.
SUBMISSIONS:

The learned Public Prosecutor Smti. Runumi Devi submitted that this case has
been proved beyond reasonable doubt and adequate punishment ought to be
inflicted upon the accused. The victim's evidence is reliable and in a case of
this nature, the victim’s evidence is sufficient to fasten the guilt on the
accused. On the contrary, the learned defence counsel laid stress in his
argument that this case is replete with contradictions and the accused has
been made a scapegoat by the victim.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:
On the backdrop of the rival contentions proponed at the bar, the following
points are apposite to be decided:

1. Whether the accused abducted the victim X with intent that
she may be compelled or knowing it to be likely that she
will be compelled to marry another person against her will
or seduced to illicit intercourse?

2. Whether at the same time and place, the accused
committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the
victim X?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

In order to decide the case in its right perspective, it is necessary to delve
into the evidence:

The victim X testified as PW-2 that she got acquainted with the accused
person during Durga Puja festival at Khowang. She went to watch Durga Puja
at Khowang in the year 2015 and she was introduced to the accused person
by one of her friends named Madolin Kerkata. When the accused asked her
name and address, she refused to disclose her name and address. On the
day of the incident, while she was alone in the house, the accused along with

one of his friends came to her house and called her in the pretext of having
something to inform her. At that time, she was alone at home and she also
learnt that her friend Madolin Kerkata gave her name and address to the
accused. The accused offered her sweet meat and after having the sweet,
she felt giddy. When she came to her senses, she asked the accused where
she was and the accused informed her that she was in his elder brother-in-
law's house. The elder brother-in-law of the accused refused to allow the
victim to stay in their house. Thereafter, the accused took her in an auto to
Bamunbari towards his elder sister’s house. During her stay in the accused
person’s elder sister’s house, the accused forcefully had sexual intercourse
with her. They stayed in the accused person’s elder sister’s house at
Bamunbari for eleven days. The accused person’s elder sister insisted to send
her back to her house, but the accused did not allow her to return to her
house. While she was staying in the accused person’s elder sister’s house, the
accused kept her confined inside the house and did not allow her to go out of
the house. Thereafter, the accused took her to Khukan Nagar at Moran to his
elder sister's house and the police recovered her from Khukan Nagar. The
police brought her to the police station where she met her brother and her
parents. The police recorded her statement. The police forwarded her to the
hospital for medical examination, but she did not allow the doctor to examine
her as she was having her menstrual periods. She also came to the Court and
the Magistrate recorded her statement. Ext. 1 is her statement and Ext. 1(1)
upto Ext. 1(3) are her signatures. She answered to the Court that her date of
birth was 07-12-99. Her cross-examination will be discussed at the proper
stage.

10) The evidence of the victim is not found reliable. It is not fathomable that
after eating a sweet meat provided by the accused, she will be knocked
unconscious to such an extent that she will find herself in another place
unknown to her. The victim also did not state how the accused after offering
her sweet which made her unconscious took her to his elder brother-in-law’s
house at Khowang. There is no explanation by the victim how she went from
Khowang to Bamunbari. If the accused had forcefully taken her to Knhowang,
then why did she go to Bamunbari with the accused person and stayed there
in his elder sister’s house for eleven days. It is also not fathomable that the
accused person will be able to keep her confined in his sister’s house who

was unwilling to keep the victim X in her house and insisted that the victim
should return to her house. It is also not believable that the accused person
will forcefully commit rape on the victim X in his elder sister's house which is
inhabited by his sister, brother-in-law and other family members. If the victim
was so reluctant, then why she continued with her sojourn with the accused
person and went to Khukan Nagar from Khowang till her recovery by the
police. The victim’s evidence does not inspire confidence. The date of birth of
the victim was 07-12-99 which implies that she was above 16 years on 24-
10-15. No documents supporting her age were exhibited. Moreover, the
doctor could not give any opinion, because she refused medical examination.
On the contrary, the victim stated that her age was 16 years when she was
produced before the Magistrate. It is apt to mention at this stage that in her
statement before the Magistrate under Section 164 CrPC, the victim stated
that on 24-10-15, at about 3:00 pm, the accused came to her house when
she was alone and asked her to accompany him to his sister’s house at
Khowang, but she refused. When she refused, the accused forcefully took her
with him and while on the way to Khowang, the accused informed her that he
eloped with her. At that time, she refused to go with him and insisted to
return home, but the accused and his friends forcefully took her to
Bamunbari to his elder sister’s house. They stayed there for ten days. This
statement is contrary to what the victim testified in the Court, because
according to her testimony, she became unconscious on consumption of a
sweet offered by the accused and she came to her senses in the accused
persons elder brother-in-law’s house in Khowang. In her statement under
Section 164 CrPC, the victim stated that she stayed in Khowang for ten days.
This was not stated by the victim in her evidence. The victim's testimony
belies her evidence. Conduct of the victim clearly depicts that she went with
the accused on her own volition. She was rather enamoured of the accused.
11) The evidence of the victim is supported by her brother's evidence. Sri Barna
Torkod testified as PW-1 that he came to know the accused person after the
incident. The victim X is his younger sister. About three months back, on the
day of the incident, his sister was alone at home and he and his parents were
out on work. When he reached home at about 3:00 pm, he found his sister
missing from the house. After a frantic search for about 6/7 days at every
possible places, they could not find her and then he lodged the ejahar. At the

time of the incident, his sister was around 16/17 years. After three or four
days, the police informed him that they recovered the victim and asked him
to go to the police station. He and his parents went to the police station and
met his sister along with the accused person. He learnt that the accused
person's name was Sri Sutu Kalandi. On the next day, the police took his
sister for medical examination. The police also forwarded his sister to the
Magistrate for recording her statement. His parents took custody of his sister.
His sister informed him that the accused person took her to some places
including his elder brother-in-law’s house, but his elder brother-in-law did not
allow the accused to keep the victim in their house and informed the police.

12) Thus, it is clear from the complainant’s evidence that the victim was not
allowed to stay in the accused person’s elder brother-in-law’s house. Even
though she was taken out of his house, she continued accompanying the
accused person to different places until she was recovered by the police. The
victim's conduct clearly depicts that she went with the accused on her own
volition. Moreover, the complainant has clearly stated that the victim was
16/17 years at the time of alleged incident. Thus, according to Criminal
Jurisprudence, two years on the higher side of the victim’s age can be taken
into consideration.

13) At this juncture, it is apt to advert to the cross-examination of the IO. SI Biraj
Kumar Dutta testified as PW-6 that on 01-11-15, he was endorsed to
investigate the Khowang PS Case No. 44/15 under Section 366 of the IPC
launched on the basis of the ejahar Ext. 2 where Ext. 2(2) is the signature of
SI Raju Gogoi which is familiar to him. In his cross-examination, he testified
that the victim did not state before him that on the day of the incident, the
accused called her in the pretext to inform her something and offered her a
sweet meat after having which she felt dizziness.

14) Thus, it is clear that the core incident was not mentioned by the victim to the
police. This is a major contradiction which belies the victim’s evidence.

15) Reverting back to the IO’s examination-in-chief, the IO PW-6 further testified
that he prepared the Sketch-Map of the place of occurrence. Ext. 3 is the
Sketch-Map and Ext. 3(1) is his signature. He recorded the statement of
complaint and the witnesses in the place of occurrence. On 03-11-15, he
found the victim in a rented house at Moran Natun Nagar along with the
accused person in the rented house. This evidence of the IO casts a shadow

of doubt again over the veracity of the victim’s evidence. She stated as PW-2
that she stayed in the accused person’s elder sister’s house at Moran Natun
Nagar, but the IO stated that the victim was found with the accused person in
a rented house at Moran Natun Nagar. After completion of investigation, the
IO submitted the Charge-Sheet Ext. 4 where Ext. 4(1) is his signature.

16)The IO’s cross-examination reflects severe contradictions in the victim's
testimony. The IO affirmed the omission of the victim to state before him that
on the day of the occurrence, she was alone at home and the accused came
to her house along with one of his companions, but the victim stated before
the IO that the accused came alone when she was alone at home. The victim
also omitted to state before him that the accused called her in the pretext of
having to inform her something and offered her sweet meat, after
consumption of which, she felt giddy and then the accused took her to his
elder sister’s house at Bamunbari. The IO affirmed that the victim stated that
the accused took her to Bamunbari.

17) Thus, this case is replete with contradictions. The core of the case has been
omitted by the victim in her statement under Section 161 CrPC. She omitted
to mention before the IO and the Magistrate that the sweet meat rendered
her unconscious. This is the main substance of the story narrated by the
victim in her testimony before the Court. The contradictions to the extent that
the victim was made unconscious by the sweet or she was forcefully taken
away by the accused from her house when she was alone and conscious,
clearly depicts that there is embellishment and this casts a shadow of doubt
over the veracity of the evidence of the victim. The benefit of doubt goes to
the accused. Moreover, she stayed in the accused person’s brother-in-law’s
house and sister-in-law’s house during the entire period of her disappearance.
There is no evidence regarding the demeanour of the accused person’s
brother-in-law or sister-in-law when the victim encountered them in their
respective houses.

18) I would like to refer with profit the decision of the Hon’ble The Supreme
Court in ND Dhyagude vs. State of Maharashtra that:

"The story narrated by him in his evidence before the Court differs
substantially from that set out in his statement before the police
and having regard to the large number of contradictions in his
evidence- contradictions not on mere matters of detail, but on vital

points- we do not think it would be safe to rely on his evidence.”
19) Reverting back to this case, it is held that this case is fraught with
discrepancies and the story narrated by the victim before the Court differs
substantially from that stated in her statement before the police and the
learned Magistrate. The evidence of PW-5 is based on the basis of the victim
X and the complainant.

20) Smti. Dalila Torkod is the victim’s mother and she testified as PW-8 that on
the day of the incident, at about 4:00 pm, when she returned home, she
found her daughter X missing. She along with her family members set out on
a frantic search, but could not trace out the victim. She informed the VDP
members. Finally, her son Sri Barna Torkod lodged an ejahar with the police.
After fifteen days, she received information from the Khowang Police Station
that her daughter was recovered by the Khowang Police. She along with her
family members went to the police station and found her daughter and the
accused person. When she asked her daughter about the incident, her
daughter informed her that the accused person offered her a sweet and
thereafter, she was taken to several places and the accused person kept her
with him. In her cross-examination, she testified that she did not know from
where her daughter was recovered by the Khowang Police.

21)It has already been held that the victim’s evidence does not inspire
confidence. The PW-5's evidence is based on the victim's narrative. It is clear
that when she was confronted by her mother, the victim improved her version
to extricate herself from the situation. The facts are eloquent that the victim
had been staying with the accused for more than fifteen days. When the
victim’s testimony is not acceptable as reliable evidence, her mother's
evidence which is based on her narrative cannot be accepted. The evidence
of other witnesses does not implicate the accused as complicit.

22) Sri Havil Bhakta testified as PW-3 that the accused person is not known to
him. The incident took place about six months back. The victim is his sister-
in-law. On the day of the incident, he was staying in his in-law’s residence
and he was informed that the victim went amiss. After a frantic search, when
the victim could not be found, the police was informed and much later, the
victim was recovered by the police.

23) Similarly, the evidence of PW-4 also does not implicate the accused person.
Sri Susen Torkod testified as PW-4 that the accused person is not known to

him and the victim is his younger sister. About 4/5 months back, about 3:00
pm, they discovered that the victim was missing. They searched their
neighbourhood and lodged an ejahar. Two villagers from Khowang came and
informed them that the victim was in the accused person's brother-in-law’s
house. Then they informed the police who recovered the victim.

24) Recapitulating the entire evidence, it is thereby held that this case is fraught
with discrepancies and the benefit of doubt goes to the accused. Prosecution
failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused kidnapped the
victim with intent to seduce her to illicit intercourse. The prosecution also
failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim.

25) Thereby, the accused Sri Sutu Kalandi is acquitted from the charges under
Sections 366-A of the IPC, read with Section 5(1)/6 of the POCSO Act and set
at liberty forthwith.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 13 day of
June, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

APPENDIX
10

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 Sri Barna Torkod;
2. PW-2 The victim;
3. PW-3 Sri Havil Bhakta;
4. PW-4 Sri Susen Torkod;
5. PW-5 Smti. Dalila Torkod; and
6. PW-6 SI Biraj Kumar Dutta.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Sketch-Map; and
4. Ext. 4 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
