IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE, SI VASAGAR

Present:- Sri S. K. Poddar,
Sessions J udge cum Special | udge,
Sivasagar.

Special (P) Case No. 36 of 2016 U/S 8 of POCSO Act
(Arising out of Sapekhati P.S. Case No. 76/2016)

APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution
For the accused

Date of framing Charge
Dates of Evidence

Date of S/D

Date of Argument

Date of J udgment

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Siva GOGOL ......ceseeee eee Accused

Sri A. K. Bora, P.P.
Mr. D.K. Gohain,
State Defence Counsel

13.12.2016
06.03.1017, 28.04.2017, 22.06.2017.
01.07.2017
17.08.2017
31.08.2017

UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 23.08.2016 Smti. Karuna

Gogol lodged an FIR with O/C Sapekhati Police Station alleging inter alia that on

21.08.2016 at about 3 p.m. while her minor daughter, Victim B, (name withheld)

aged about 6 years was playing with her friend, accused Siva Gogoi by enticing

the victim in the name of giving some foods took her to his orchard and

attempted to commit rape with the victim. On making hue and cry, the

neighbouring people apprehended the accused but he managed to flee away.

2. On this FIR, Sapekhati P.S. Case No. 76/16 U/S 18 of POCSO Act

was registered and investigated

into. During investigation, accused was

Special (P) Case No. 36 of 2016 Page 1 of 9
arrested and produced him before the court for judicial custody. The victim was
medically examined and got her statement recorded in Court U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
On completion of investigation, 1.0. has submitted Charge-Sheet against the
above named accused U/S 18 of POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the charge-sheet and on appearance of the accused,
vide order dated 13.12.2016, my learned predecessor in office has framed
charge U/S 8 of POCSO Act against the above named accused person to which
he pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial. During trial, prosecution has

examined as many as eight witnesses including |.0.

4, Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial and false implication.
Accused declined to adduce evidence, when he was called upon to enter into
defence.

5. | have heard argument of learned P.P. Mr. A.K. Bora and Mr. D.K.
Gohain, learned state defence counsel and gone through the evidence and

documents. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

6. (i) Whether on 21.08.2016, at about 3 p.m. accused Siva Gogol
committed sexual assault with the victim B and thereby make himself
liable for punishable offence U/S 8 of POCSO Act ?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :

7. PW-1 Smt. Purna Gogoi, mother of the victim in her evidence
deposed that on 21.08.2016, at evening hours while she was at her residence,
her daughter Victim B has returned form play and told her that accused Shiva
Gogol after giving her Maggi, took her to nearby low laying place and after
laying her on the ground, open her panty and kept her pressed for a long. On
knowing this, she asked the accused about the incident but the accused has
assaulted her by throwing a stone which hit on her shoulder. Immediately she

informed the matter to co-villager Riju Phukan, Gaonburah and others. On the
Special (P) Case No. 36 of 2016 Page 2 of 9
next day police came to their village as some of villager informed police. She
lodged the FIR at Police station. Exbt. 1 is her FIR. In her cross-examination,
she admitted that accused used to rebuke on peoples. Place of incident is on
the orchid of the accused. Accused used to reside with his other brothers and
their family members. She denied that that prior to the incident, she had some
quarrel with the accused. Accused used to pelt stone on the residence of the
locality. Due to committing misbehave with the villagers, none of the village
likes him. She admitted that in the FIR or in the statement to police she did not
mention that “accused Shiva Gogoi after giving her Maggi, took her to nearby
down place and after laying her on the ground, open her panty, kept her
pressed for a long, that on knowing this, she asked the accused and than the
accused has assaulted her by throwing a stone.” She denied that on previous
grudge of pelting stone, she has falsely implicated the accused with false

allegation.

8. PW-2 the minor victim B in her evidence deposed that on the date
of incident, after returning from school, she went to play with Baby, Mantu and
Santanu. Therefrom accused Siva Gogoi took her to back side, opened her pant
and his pant, touched his susu (penis) to her susu (vagina). On getting pain,
she cried. Her friends followed her while accused took her with him. Her friends
saw the incident. She returned home and inform her mother and she slapped
her. In her cross-examination she admitted that before Sonari Court, she stated
that accused has opened his pant and shown his SUSU to her. Accused gave
her some vegetable she thrown the same on the date of incident. Her mother
Slapped her as to why she had taken the vegetable from Siva. On this incident,
there was a quarrel between her mother and accused. After this quarrel, local

peoples came there. She denied to has deposed on being tutored.

9. PW-3 Miss Devi Gogoi @ Saru Mi, a student of Class V and friend
of the victim and granddaughter of the accused, in her evidence deposed that
on the date of incident, while she was playing with victim and others, accused
Siva Gogoi called her but she refused. On this, Siva Gogoi by opening his pant

Special (P) Case No. 36 of 2016 Page 3 of 9
showed his susu to her. On this they returned home and went to orchid to bring
some potato. While victim went to pluck bamboo leaves, accused Siva went
there and committed mid deed with victim by opening her pant. She had seen
the incident. On seeing her, accused Siva left her. Thereafter she returned
home and told the incident to her brother Mantu who in turn informed the
matter to one Rita. Rita told the matter to the mother of victim. Victim was also
assaulted by her mother. In her cross-examination she denied that while giving
Statement to police, she had not stated that accused Siva Gogoi called Babita
but she refused; that on this, Siva Gogoi by opening his pant showed his susu
to her. She admitted that they went for collecting potato in the orchid of
accused Siva. She denied that for this act, accused has scolded and chased
them. She also denied that on chasing by accused they complained the matter
to the mother of victim. Accused has given some potato to victim but the
mother of Babita did not keep those and scolded her. They have collected and
bring few potato from the orchid of accused. Accused has also thrown a stone

which hit mother of victim.

10. PW-4 Smt. Rita Gogoi in her evidence deposed that on
21.08.2016, at evening hours Debi told her that accused Shiva Gogoi has
committed misdeed with victim B. On knowing this, she informed the incident
to mother of victim. Purna Gogoi assembled co-villagers. On the same day,
police came to their village and asked her about the incident. In her cross-
examination she admitted that she has not seen any of the incident with victim.
She has seen a quarrel between Siva and Purna. She denied to had deposed

falsely on being tutored by Purna and Durlov.

11. PW-5 Sri Durlov Gogoi, father of the victim B, in her evidence
deposed that victim is aged about about 6 years and she Is reading in class I.
On the next day of the incident, his wife Purna Gogoi informed him that
accused Siva has committed rape on his daughter. On asking victim, she told
him that accused Shiva Gogoi has opened her pant and touched his susu to her
Susu. This matter was informed to police. In his cross-examination he stated

Special (P) Case No. 36 of 2016 Page 4 of 9
that he had no knowledge that on the day of alleged incident, his daughter
along with Debi, Babita and Mantu committed theft of Potato from the orchard
of accused Siva. Accused Siva Gogoi used to make quarrel with them since last
two years of this incident. As such they did not maintain any relation with Siva.
He has not any injury marks on his daughter. After the incident, he has seen his

daughter with normal behaviour.

12. PW-6 Sri Riju Phukanin his evidence deposed that on the next day
of the incident, one Debi Gogoi, friend of the victim told him that on the back
side of his residence, accused Siva Gogoi grabbed and committed misdeed with
victim. He did not inquire about the incident from the victim. In his cross-
examination he admitted that while giving statement to police he had not
Stated that as deposed in court. Residence of Siva Gogoi was at Rangdhali
Gaon. His residence is at a distance of about 3% KM from the house of

accused.

13. PW-7 Sri Ananta Gogoiin his evidence deposed that on the next
day of the incident, neighbouring people of the victim, told him that on the
back side of his residence, accused Siva Gogoi grabbed and committed misdeed
with victim. On knowing this, he did not inquire about the incident from victim.
In his cross-examination he admitted that he heard about the incident while

local villagers were talking about the matter.

14. PW-8 SI Anil Moran, the I/O of this case, in his evidence deposed
that during investigation he went to the place of occurrence i.e. residence of
accused Siva Gogoi at Rangdhali Gaon and drawn a sketch map of the PO.
Exbt. 2 is the said sketch map. Accused was found missing in his residence.
Victim was sent for medical examination and also sent to Court for recording
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. During investigation, he has collected the medical
report and statement given by victim in court. Exbt. 3 is the statement given by
the victim in court. Exbt. 4 is the medical report. From the medical report it
appears that no external injury was found on the victim. On completion of

investigation, he has submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 18 POCSO
Special (P) Case No. 36 of 2016 Page 5 of 9
Act. Exbt. 5 is the charge sheet. In his cross-examination he deposed that as
per FIR date of occurrence is shown as 21.08.2016. FIR was lodged on
23.08.2016. There was no mention of cause of delay in filling the FIR. He has
not questioned the informant to record the cause of delay. Victim was medically
examination at Sapekhati Hospital. In Exbt. 4, medical report, there was no
mention of age of the victim. He has not collected the age proof document of
the victim. In the FIR on in the 164 Cr.P.C, no allegation was levelled regarding
penetrative sexual assault by the accused. Witness Purna Gogoi in her
Statement before him did not state that “accused Shiva Gogoi after giving her
Maggi, took victim to nearby down place, that on being asked, the accused has

assaulted her by throwing a stone on her which hit her on my shoulder.”

15. From the above evidence, particularly looking at the evidence of
PW. 2 the victim it appears that she has stated that accused took her to back
side, opened of her pant and his pant, touched his penis to her vagina. On
getting pain she cried. She also deposed that her friends followed her while the
accused took her with him and her friends have seen the incident. In her cross
she admitted that while giving statement in Sonari Court she has stated that
the accused has opened his pant and shown his Susu to her. She denied that
She deposed as tutored. Having found contradictions in examination-in-chief
and her admission in cross-examination, on looking the evidence of the victim
given U/S 164 Cr.P.C. which was proved as Ext. 3 through the I|.0., it appears
that on 24 August 2016, i.e. on the 3rd day of incident she gave her
statement at Sonari Court and she categorically stated that accused called her
on the back side of his house and after opening his pant he shown his Susu
(Penis) to her. Further she stated that except this accused did nothing. So from
the above evidence, it appears that the evidence given by the victim in her
examination-in-chief is exaggerated then her previous statement given U/S 164
Cr.P.C. This makes the evidence of P.W. 2, victim doubtful.

16. The above finding reinforced when we look at the evidence of P.W.
3, friend of victim. In her evidence she stated that while she was playing with

Special (P) Case No. 36 of 2016 Page 6 of 9
the victim and her younger brother Mantu, accused Siva Gogoi called Bobita
and on her refusal Siva Gogoi opened his pant and shown his Susu to her. This
part of evidence was not supported by the victim in her examination-in-chief.
P.W. 3 however, in the second part of her evidence has stated that while victim
went to pluck Bamboo leaves, accused Siva went there and committed mis-
deed with her by opening her pant. On seeing her accused Siva left her. As per
victim she was taken by the accused but as per P.W. 3 while victim went to
orchid by the accused, he went there and committed mis-deed. P.W. 3 is silent
regarding opening of the pant by the accused which was stated by the victim.
Thus it appears that she has also contradicted the victim regarding taking of
the victim to back side, opening of pant by both victim and the accused,

touching of penis to vagina.

17. From the evidence of P.W. 1, 4, 5, 6 & 7 it appears that all are
hearsay witness. Though they have stated regarding commission of misdeed by
the accused, but on a careful reading, it appears that the fact got exaggerated.
P.W. 1, the informant and mother of the victim has brought the story giving of
Maggi by the accused and taking of the victim to nearby down place, laying the
victim on the ground which the victim did not depose in Court or in 164 Cr.P.C.
In her cross the victim has admitted that accused used to rebukes on people of
the locality and due to committing misbehaved with the villagers, none of the
villagers likes him. The other part of the evidence regarding asking of the
accused she has not stated the majority facts. From the evidence of P.W.1, it
appears that the victim and P.W. 3 went to the orchid of accused for collecting
potato and that on being asked, the accused has also thrown a stone, which hit
the mother of the victim, this shows the probability of exaggeration of facts of
sexual assault. P.W. 4 also admitted that she has seen a quarrel with the
accused and P.W. 1. P.W. 5 also admitted that accused used to make quarrel
with them and they did not maintain any relation with the accused. P.W. 5,
father of the victim also deposed that after the incident he seen his daughter

with normal behaviour and have not seen any injury marks on his daughter.

Special (P) Case No. 36 of 2016 Page 7 of 9
P.W. 8 Is the 1.0. who has done the whole work of the investigation and
confirmed regarding the exaggeration made by the victim and informant. From
the medical report, Ext. 4, it also appears that the Medical Officer did not get

any injury mark.

18. From the totality of the facts, particularly from the exaggeration
made by the victim in her evidence, from her previous statement given U/S 164

Cr.P.C., it appears to me that it will be unjust to rely on her statement.

19. Considering all above, | hold that the prosecution has failed to
prove the offence beyond reasonable doubt and accordingly accused Siva Gogol
is acquitted from the charge U/S 8 of POCSO Act on benefit of doubt and set at
liberty forthwith.

20. The bail bonds executed by the accused and his surety stand

extended for another six months from today.

21. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the matter is
not referred to DLSA for granting compensation U/S 357(A) Cr.P.C.

22 Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

23. It may be mentioned here that originally judgment was fixed on
17.08.2017 but on that day it could not be delivered as self was on leave and
got fixed on 31.08.2017.

24. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case Is disposed of on
contest.

Given under my hand & seal of this Court on this the, 31° day of August,
2017 at Sivasagar.

Special | udge,
Sivasagar

Special (P) Case No. 36 of 2016 Page 8 of 9
APPENDIX
1. Prosecution witnesses :

P.W.1- Smt. Purna Gogoi

P.W.2- Victim B

P.W.3- Miss Devi Gogoi @ Saru Mi
P.W.4- Smt. Rita Gogol

P.W.5- Sri Durlov Gogoi

P.W.6- Sri Riju Phukan

P.W.7- Sri Ananta Gogol

P.W.8- Sri Anil Moran (1.0.)

2. Defence witnesses - Nil.
3. Court witnesses - Nil.

4. Exhibits by prosecution -
Exbt.1 - FIR.

Exbt.2 - Sketch map

Exbt.3 - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of victim B.
Exbt.4 - Medical report

Exbt.5 - Charge-Sheet

Sessions J udge,
Sivasagar

Special (P) Case No. 36 of 2016 Page 9 of 9
