IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: MORIGAON, ASSAM

Present: Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions Judge cum Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam.

POCSO Case No. 36/2019
U/S 366/376(2)(i) IPC r/w Section 6 of the POCSO Act.
State of Assam
-VS-

Sri Anil Biswas
S/o Sri Nimai Biswas
R/o Village- No. 1 Bangalbori

P.S. — Jagiroad
District - Morigaon, Assam. _..... Accused
Date of Charge ; 11.02.2020.
Date of Evidence 07.03.2020.
Date of Argument : 07.03.2020.
Date of Judgment ; 07.03.2020.
Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State : Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. Special Public Prosecutor.

Advocate for the Accused _ : Mr. U. C. Roy, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 23.04.2017, Sri Amal Biswas
lodged an FIR with the Officer-in-Charge, Jagiroad Police Station alleging inter-
alia that on the same day at about 12 afternoon, while his daughter the victim
‘X’ (name withheld), aged 13 years went to nearby shop, therefrom she was

kidnapped by the accused Anil Biswas and another unknown person of Kampur.

Pocso Case No. 03/2020 Page 1 of 6
2. On receipt of the FIR, Jagiroad PS Case No. 132/2017 u/s 363 IPC
was registered and investigated into. During investigation, the victim was
medically examined and also forwarded to the Court for recording her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On completion of investigation, the Investigating
Officer (I/O) submitted charge sheet against the accused Sri Anil Biswas for trial
u/s 366(A) IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 showing him as

absconder.

3. On appearance of accused Anil Biswas he was allowed to go on
bail and after furnishing copies of relevant papers, vide order dated 11.02.2020,
upon hearing both the sides, charges u/s 366/376(2)(i) IPC r/w Section 6 of the
POCSO Act, 2012 were framed and explained to the accused to which he
pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial, prosecution side has examined only two witnesses
only i.e. the informant and the victim. Considering the nature of the evidence,
examination of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C is dispenses with. I proposed to dispose
the case by using powers u/s 232 Cr.P.C. without calling the accused to enter

into defence.

5. I have heard argument of Id. Special P.P. Mr. A. Kalam and Mr. U.
C. Roy, learned defence Counsel and gone through the evidence on record. I

have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE:

6. (D) What was the age of the victim on 23.04.2017?

(II) Whether on 23.04.2017, the accused has kidnapped/abducted the
victim to his house? If yes, what was the intention of the accused?

(ZI) Whether on 23.04.2017 or thereafter, the victim 'X' was subjected
to aggravated penetrative sexual assault/rape by the accused in his
house?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Pocso Case No. 03/2020 Page 2 of 6
7. PW-1, Sri Amal Biswas, the informant as well as the father of the
victim ‘xX’ in his evidence deposed that at the time of incident, the victim ‘X’ was
aged about 16 years and was a student of class VIII. He has forgotten the date
of birth of his daughter. On 23.04.2017, at about 1 PM, while he was at market,
co-villager Khusi Biswas informed him over phone that his wife is searching for
his daughter as she was missing. On knowing this, he requested Khusi Biswas
to search his daughter by going to the house of accused. At evening hours, he
returned home and his wife told him that after going to nearby shop, the victim
‘*X’ did not return home. Khusi informed him that father of the accused denied
that his son has taken away the victim. On this, on the same night, he lodged
the FIR at Jagiroad PS. Exbt. 1 is his FIR. Exbt. 1(i) is his signature. After about
7 - 10 days, police recovered his daughter and informed him. On this, he went
to Jagiroad PS and met his daughter. His daughter the victim ‘X’ told him that
accused took her to Kampur in a m/cycle from embankment where she went for
marketing in the nearby shop and kept her in the residence of his relative.
Police took her for medical check-up and also took her to court and thereafter,
she was handed over to him. After bring her to his residence, the victim ‘xX’ did
not complain about any misbehaviour with her by the accused. After staying for
about 2-3 months, his daughter again went with the accused. For the second
incident of kidnap, he lodged another FIR. After recovery on the second
occasion, the victim ‘X’ again eloped with the accused and presently she is
residing with the accused at his house without performing social marriage. In
his cross-examination by defence, PW 1 stated that he has not submitted any
age proof document in court. He had stated the age on assumption. He denied
the suggestion that at the time of occurrence his daughter was aged above 18
years and as such, he had withheld the age proof documents of his daughter.
He has no knowledge about performing marriage between the accused and his
daughter. Presently, they have compromised the matter and he will accept their
relationship subject to the condition that accused shall keep his daughter

happily. He has no objection in acquittal of the accused from this case.

Pocso Case No. 03/2020 Page 3 of 6
8. PW-2, the victim ‘X’ in her evidence deposed that at the time of
incident, she was aged about 18 years and was a student of class IX. She has
forgotten her date of birth. On 23.04.2017, at about 9:00 AM, having love
affairs with the accused, she eloped with him without informing her parents.
They went to Kampur and stayed in his relative’s house. After 5-6 days police
brought her to Jagiroad PS. At police station campus, she met her father and
told him that she went with the accused on her own. Police also took her for
medical examination and brought to Court for recording her statement. She had
given her statement in Court. Exbt. 2 is her statement. Exbt. 2(1) to 2(2) are
her signatures. From court, she went with her parents. After 3 days, she again
eloped with Anil on her own and he took her to his house. After few days,
police again recovered her and produced in court wherefrom she was given in
zimma of her father. However, she again came back to the house of accused
and performed marriage in the house of maternal uncle of accused and now
living with her husband. Presently, she is carrying 9 months pregnancy. In her
cross-examination by defence, she stated that she had love affairs with accused
Anil Biswas. He did not use force in taking her to Kampur. They stayed there on
her consent. Accused is mason by profession and her father is businessman.
Therefore, he did not like the accused and hence he filed the case without

asking her. She prays for acquittal of the accused.

9. Basing on the above evidence, let me decide the points
formulated. So far age of the victim is concerned, it has been revealed from the
evidence of the victim claimed that, at the time of occurrence she was aged
about 18 years. However father of the victim though stated that at that time
victim as aged about 16 years, but in his cross-examination, he admitted that
he stated the age on assumption. Admittedly no document was proved by
prosecution age. In the medical certificate, basing on x-ray report, the age of
victim was mentioned as 18 years. As such, it is presumed that at the time of

incident, the age of the victim above 18 years.

Pocso Case No. 03/2020 Page 4 of 6
10. From the evidence of PW-2, the victim ‘xX’, it appears that she
deposed nothing against the accused involving him with the alleged offence of
kidnapping and committing rape upon her by the accused. The victim in her
evidence-in-chief clearly stated that having love affairs with the accused, she
eloped with him without informing her parents. After her recovery by police she
met her father at the police station and told him that she went with the accused
on her own. There is evidence that the victim eloped with accused on 3
occasions and lastly performed marriage and residing at her matrimonial home.
Presently, she is carrying 9 months pregnancy. In her cross-examination, the
victim admitted that accused did not use force in taking her to Kampur and that
she stayed there on her consent. PW 1 in his evidence admitted that after
recovery, the victim did not complained of use of force or any misbehave by the

accused.

11. From the above evidence as discussed, it is clear that there is no
material whatsoever regarding abduction or commission of rape by the accused
upon the victim ‘xX’. The victim being major in age, offence under Pocso Act is

not applicable in this case.

12. Considering above discussion, I am of the opinion that prosecution
has failed to prove the ingredients of charge U/S 366/376(2)(i) IPC and Section
6 of the POCSO Act against the accused Anil Biswas. As such, accused Anil
Biswas is acquitted from the charges U/S 366/376(2)(i) IPC and Section 6 of
POCSO Act, 2012 and set at liberty forthwith.

13. The bail bond executed by accused and his surety are extended

for another six months from today u/s 437-A Cr.P.C.

14. Considering the nature of the case, the matter is not referred to

DLSA for granting compensation u/s 357-A Cr.P.C.

15. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Morigaon u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

Pocso Case No. 03/2020 Page 5 of 6
16. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 7" day of March,
2020 at Morigaon.

Special Judge,
Morigaon, Assam

Pocso Case No. 03/2020 Page 6 of 6
