Page 1 of 7

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused.u/s
313 Cr.P.C.

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

29 OF 2017

(Under Section 448 IPC read with
section u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, arising
out of G.R. Case No. 1800/17)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
State of Assam

-“Vs-
Md. Sahar Ali,
Son of Md: Abdul Zabber
Resident of Dolgaon Khuti
Police Station — Dolgaon,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
23/08/2017

24/08/2017

24/08/2017

24/08/2017

24/08/2017

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. P. Biswas , Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md. Sahar Ali is put for trial for allegation of
charge under Section 448 of the IPC read with section 4 of the POCSO

Act, 2012.

 
Page 2 of 7

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or
about 8 p.m. of 16-05-2017 accused trespassed into the house of the
informant and forcefully took the informant’s minor daughter Miss “X”
and committed rape on her. While the informant not seen the victim in
the house, he searched her vigorously but he could not found her. The
accused threatened the victim that if she reported the matter to other

persons she will be killed by a dao. Hence, this prosecution case.

a. The ejahar was filed by the informant before the I/C of
Rakhashmari Police Out Post under Dhekiajuli police station_on 19-05-
2017. On receipt the ejahar, the I/C of Rakhashmari Police»Out Post by
giving GD entry No. 273 dated 19-05-2017 and forwarded the same to
O/C Dhekiajuli Police station to register a case. under proper section of
law. Lateron, Officer-In-Charge of Dhekiajuli Police Station registered
the case vide Dhekiajuli P.S. Case’ No. 413/17 u/s 457 of IPC r/w
section 4 of the POCSO Act. After completion of usual investigation,
the O/C Dhekiajuli Police Station filed charge sheet u/s 448 of IPC r/w
section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused Md. Sahar Ali.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, I framed charge u/s 448 of the IPC read with section 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused Md. Sahar Ali and particulars of
the charge was read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads

not guilty and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined two
witnesses i.e. the complainant and the victim. After recording evidence
of the said complainant and the victim, learned counsel for the accused
submitted to close the evidence on the ground that the statement of
material witnesses reveals no any materials as to any of the alleged

charge against the accused.
6. Learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur has also conceded.

7. On perusal of the statement of the aforesaid witnesses, i.e.

complainant and the victim, it appears that none of the witnesses

 
Page 3 of 7

reveals any materials of any alleged offence against the accused.
Therefore, I think prosecution case would not develop even if examined
the other witnesses. Speedy trial is the right of the accused person.
Considering all these aspects, prosecution evidence is closed. Accused is
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused
and evidence appears against the accused are put before him for his
explanation where he denied the allegations and declined to adduce

defence evidence.

8. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels
of both sides.

9. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) “Whether on or about<8 p.m.) of 16-05-2017 at
Narengkati Bangali under. Dhekiajuli Police station, the
accused committed criminal trespass by entering into the
house of informant Md. Sahjahan Ali and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 448 of the
IPC?

(2) “Whether von the same date, time and place, the
accused committed penetrative sexual assault on "Miss X”
(victim) and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

10. — To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence

on record.

11. PW 1 Md. Sahjahan Ali stated before the court that he knows the
accused Sahar Ali. Victim Miss “X” is his minor daughter. At the time of
incident, the age of his daughter was 13 years. His victim daughter was
missing from his house. At the relevant time he was not at home. In
fact due to love affairs with the accused, his victim daughter went with
the accused to enjoy function. On angry he lodged the ejahar. The

ejahar was written by one scribe but his name is not known to him. His

 
Page 4 of 7

victim daughter was medically examined and she was also sent to the

court to record her statement.

In cross-examination, he admitted that he does not know the
contents of the ejahar. In fact, the age of his victim daughter is 18
years 8 months at present. She does not have any knowledge about the
age as mentioned in the FIR. On the said night of the function his victim
daughter returned to the house. Accused has took his daughter to his

house after enjoying function.

12. PW 2, Victim Miss “X”, stated before the court.that she knows
the accused Sahar Ali. He is her co-villager. The incident took place at
about three months ago. At the relevant day,she along with Sahar Ali
went to enjoy Bihu function by taking permission from her mother.
During that time her father was absent..After enjoying Bihu, accused
took her to her house so the .neighbor people falsely alleged the
accused in the case. On suspect and instigation of local people her
father filed this case against the accused. She loved the accused so she
went with him at her‘own will. In fact there is no such incident took
place as alleged in. the FIR. After institution of the case she has been
examined through the doctor and then she was also sent to the court
for recording her statement. Ext. 1 is her statement recorded u/s 164
Cr.P.G. and Ext. 1(1) and 1(2) are her signatures.

In cross-examination she admitted that she was taught by the
villagers what to made statement before the learned Magistrate
therefore according to instruction of the local public she made such
statement before the learned Magistrate. In fact no such incident took
place as stated in Ext.1. At present also they have compromised the

matter in between both the family in the village.
13. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case.

Now, the question come — whether the aforesaid evidence
adduced by the complainant and the victim, the accused can be

convicted?

 
Page 5 of 7

14. Since the case is charged u/s 448 of the IPC read with section 4
of POCSO Act so, I think to see what is the ingredients of 448 of the
IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act.

15. To prove the charge under Section 448 of the IPC, the
prosecution must prove :-

“(J that the accused committed criminal trespass.

(ii) that such criminal trespass was committed by
entering into, or remaining in, a building, tent or vessels.
(ili) that such building, tent, or vessel, was used as a
human dwelling or as a place of worship, or as a place for
the custody of property.”

16. Similarly, to bring the charge under section 4 of the Protection of
Child from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, prosecution must prove the
ingredients mentioned in section 3 of the POCSO. Act.

Section 3 of the POCSO Act quoted as follows:

Section 3. Penetrative Sexual assault, - A person is
said to commit "pemetrative sexual assault” if -

 

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the
vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other
person; or

(b) heinserts, to any extent, any object or a part
of the body, not being the penis, into the
vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other
person; or

(Cc) he manipulates any part of the body of the
child so as to cause penetration into the
vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body o the
child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina,
anus, urethra of the child or makes the child to
do so to such person or any other person.

17. Coming to the present case, it appears that neither the
complainant who is the father of the victim nor the victim reveals any

materials as to any ingredients of any of the alleged offence.

 
Page 6 of 7

18. | Under such circumstances, I have no hesitation to hold that the
prosecution has failed to prove any of the charge levelled against the
accused beyond any reasonable doubt. Hence, I acquit the accused Md.
Sahar Ali and set him at liberty.

19. Send back the LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 24 day
of August, 2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
Page 7 of 7

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

1. Prosecution Witness No.1 ‘= Sahjahan Ali,Complainant

2. Prosecution Witness No.2 - Miss “X”, victim.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
