 

yo?

S

ope =
adh 5. 8

| on

Page 1 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 08/2017
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI,

 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 8/2017
u/s 366-A IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

State of Assam
-VS-
Sri Bipul Das

coos Accused

Present: “ Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Advocates Appeared:-
For the prosecution: Mr. J. Bardoloi, learned Addl. P.P

For the defence : Mr. S. Rahman, learned Advocate.
Dates of recording Evidence: 22.05.2018, 27.06.2018, 18.07.2018.
Date of Argument : 18.07.2018.

Date of Judgment / 18-07.2018.

JUDGMENT

. The prosecution case in brief is that on 26.03.2017 the informant, Sri Dilip Das lodged

an FIR with the O/C, Behali P.S. stating inter-alia that on 22.03.2017 at about 4 A.M.
when his daughter (name is withheld), who was born 15.10.2002, went out of their
house to attend nature’s call, the accused Bipul Das abducted her and he thereafter has
kept her confined at an unknown place.

Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After
investigation, the police submitted charge-sheet against the accused Bipul Das u/s 366
IPC r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

3. The accused in due course appeared before this court to face trial. Copies of the

relevant documents were furnished to him. Upon hearing both the sides on the point of
charge, taking note of the materials furnished 173 CrPC, as my learned predecessor
found grounds for presuming that the accused had committed offences u/s 366(A) IPC,
r/w 4 of POCSO Act, 2012, the charges were accordingly framed against him, which on
being read over and explained, the accused pleaded not guilty.

During trial, the prosecution examined four witnesses in all, including the victim as PW 1
Page 2 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 08/2017
and the informant as PW 2. Looking into the evidence as adduced by these two vital

witnesses, the prosecution declined to examine the remaining witnesses contending that
further evidence would not strengthen the prosecution case. Looking into the materials
on record, the prosecution evidence was closed. As no incriminating evidence was found
against the accused, his examination u/s 313 CrPC was dispensed with. The case was

thereafter, argued by both the sides.

Points for determination
i) Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence abducted the said
victim, who is a minor girl under the age of 18 years with intent that she may be
or knowing that it is likely that she will be forced to illicit intercourse with
another person?

~
i a 4
| Oar Sz ii) Whether the accused on or about the day of the alleged occurrence committed

penetrative sexual assault on the said victim?

 

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
5. PW 1 is the victim. She stated that she had love affair with the accused and therefore,
she willingly fled with him to Jagiroad. There they stayed in the house of the elder sister
of the accused. They were thereafter recovered from that place by police. She proved
her statement recorded u/s 164 CrPC as Ext. 1. She further deposed that the accused
did not misbehave her during the said period. In her cross-examination, she stated that
she had on her own wish gone with the accused. She stated that she wants to married
to the accused and what she had stated in the Ext. 1 was based on the direction of her

father. She further stated that she could not say about her actual age and she had failed

A in Class IX once. She stated that she accompanied the accused for an outing to his elder
ar yi sister’s house. Thus, from the evidence of the alleged victim we find that she had gone
yon 2S a lore with the accused on her own wish for an outing to his elder sister’s house at

pat a a Jagiroad and the accused did not kidnap her.
ro 6. PW2-The Informant-Dilip Das stated that his daughter had gone missing from their

house on 22.03.2017 and as they could not find her out, he lodged the FIR after 4 days.
Later, the police recovered his daughter from a road. He stated that his daughter was
recovered from a road at a place called Naltali in Kaliabor. He however stated that he
has no idea of the place Naltali. Further, he stated that he could not say as to whether
his daughter had accompanied the accused to that place on her own wish.

7. From the evidence of PW 2, it therefore appears that he could not say as to whether the
victim had gone with the accused on her own wish. PW3 is the mother of the alleged

victim, Smti Dipali Das. She has deposed in the same manner as was testified by her
 

10.

Page 3 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 08/2017

husband, PW 2. She in her cross-examination stated that she could not say with whom

   

her daughter had gone. According to her, no one had seen any person taking away her
daughter. She also stated that she has no idea as to whether her daughter had gone
with the accused on her own wish.

PW 4, Nibaran Das stated that he had heard that the victim had fled away with the

accused. He stated that he has no knowledge about the said incident.

. Thus, from the evidence of all these prosecution witnesses, more particularly, from the

evidence of the victim- PW 1, we find that she was not kidnapped by the accused. But
on the other hand, she stated that she willfully had accompanied the accused to his
elder sister’s house. Further, she stated that the accused did not misbehave her during
her stay in his elder sister’s house. When we take judicial notice of the medical
examination report of the victim as is available in the case record, we find that the
doctor examining her did not find any mark of injury on her body or on her private
parts. Further, the doctor did not find any recent sign of sexual intercourse on her.

Thus from the evidence on record, we do not find any material to convict the accused
on the offences charged. The prosecution has failed to prove its case against the
accused. As such, I acquit the accused person from the offences charged against him
and set him at liberty forthwith. The petition no. 1429/2018 filed u/s 437-A IPC is
allowed upon hearing both the sides. The bail bond executed on behalf of the accused is
extended for a period of six months. A copy of the judgment be forwarded to the
District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec. 365 Cr.P.C. The case is disposed
of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 18" day of July, 2018.

Maz gil R

Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.

Addl. Sessions Judge
aiswanaih Chariali, Sonitpur
 
 
  

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Victim

PW2- Sri Dilip Das

PW3- Sri Dipali Das

PW4- Sri Nibaran Das

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:

Exhibit-1: FIR.
Exhibit-2: Victim’s statement u/s 164 CrPC

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

None.

ee

? Judge
essions cal
ait Chariali, SONY
BiswW

Page 4 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 08/2017
