HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SESSIONS CASE

District :- Goalpara.

 

Present:- Sri S. Hazarika, A.J.S.
Special Judge,
Goalpara.

Spl. Case No.15/18
U/s.17/8/4 of POCSO Act.

In connection with GR Case No.839/19

For the State
For the accused

Date of evidence

Date of argument

Date of judgment

State -vs-

1.Mosabbir Alom
2.Abdul Jalil MOndal

veneenuee Accused.

Ld. Advocates appeared:-

:-Sri S. Sarma, Special Public prosecutor.

:-Mr. J. Das., A. Jinna and S.Rahman, Advocates.
:-24.01.2019, 14.02.2019, 14.03.2019,
05.04.2019, 07.05.2019, 07.06.2019,21.08.2019
& 04.10.2019.

:- 12.12.2019.

:- 23.12.2019

UDGMENT
1. The informant(prosecutrix) lodged an F.I.R. before O/C
of Lakhipur P.S. alleging inter alia that on 11.04.2018 at around
12:30 PM. while she was returning home from Dumarghat High
School, on the public road she met the accused and forcefully took
her in his motor cycle. He took her to a room at Lakhipur and after
entering the room, accused Musabbir forcefully committed rape
upon her and also threatened her with dire consequences. Later on,
Police personnel of Lakhipir P.S. rescued her. Further, it is alleged
that one unknown person namely, Nur helped the accused in
arranging the room. Accordingly, O/C of Lakhipur P.S. registered the
case U/S.8/17 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused and
investigated upon. During the course of his investigation, I/O visited
the P.O. and prepared the Sketch Map. The victim was recovered
and her statement was recorded through Court U/S.164 of Cr.P.C.
The medical examination of the victim was done. The I/O examined
the witnesses and arrested the accused persons. After completion of
investigation submitted Charge Sheet against the two accused

persons.

2. Both accused persons appeared and on their
appearance copies of documents were furnished. After considering
the materials on record and hearing both parties, framed charges
U/S.17 of POCSO Act against accused Abdul Jalil Mondal and U/S.4/8
of the POCSO Act against accused Mosabbir Alom. The content of
the charges were read over and explained, to which, the accused
persons pleaded not guilty and claimed to be innocent.

3. Accused Mosabbir is facing for commission of offence
U/S. 4/8 of the POCSO Act and accused Abdul Jalil Mondal is facing
trial for commission of offence U/S.17 of the POCSO Act

4. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE :-

i) Whether the accused Mosabbir Alom committed

penetrative sexual assault upon the prosecutrix ?

(ii) Whether the accused touched the private parts of

the victim ?
(iii) Whether the accused Abdul Jalil Mondal abated the
commission of rape upon the prosecutrix by accused Mosabbir
Alom ?

5. Upon conclusion of the evidence of the prosecution
side, the statements of the accused persons were recorded U/S.313
of Cr.P.C. wherein they claimed to be innocent and declined to
adduce evidence in defence.

6. | have heard arguments advanced by learned counsel
for both parties and also gone through the evidence on record. |
have also gone through the exhibits proved by the witnesses.

7. DISCUSSIONS DECISIONS AND REASONS
THEREFORE :-

 

In this case, the prosecution side examined twelve(12)
witnesses. Among the witnesses PW1 is the victim as well as the
informant of the alleged incident. PW2 _ is the father of the
prosecutrix, PW3 Firoj Khan, PW4 Nur Islam, PW5 Mokibor Rahman,
PW6 Bhaskar Das, PW7 Nabin Basumatary, PW8 Sanowar Hussain,
PW9 Nozmul Hoquem PW10 Bodiur Zaman are _ independent
witnesses. PW11 Dr. M. Lagachu is the Medical Officer and PW12 is
the I/O of the case.

8. Accused Musabbir Alom_ is’ facing charges for
commission of offence of penetrative sexual assault upon the
prosecutrix and accused Abdul Jalil Mondal is facing charge for
commission of offence for helping accused Musabbir to commit
sexual assault upon the victim. In the FIR the informant alleged that
on the date of occurrence while she was returning home accused
Musabbir Alom forcefully took her in his motor Cycle and she was
taken to a room and she was forcefully raped by accused Musabbir
Alom.

9. For the sake of convenience, let me now first discuss
the evidence of Medical Officer who is examined as PW11. In her
evidence she stated that on examination the victim she did not find
any sign of recent sexual intercourse or no mark of injuries found on
her body as well as on her private parts. The Medical Officer proved
Ext.6.

The Medical Officer in her evidence did not support the
allegations of commission of rape upon the victim. Ext.6 does not
show that the victim received any injury on her person as well as on
her private parts.

10. PW2 is the father of the prosecutrix. He stated that on
receipt of information from the PS. he went there and on reaching
there he came to know that the public caught his daughter while she
was taking tea in a lodge and accordingly, she was handed over.

PW2 remained silent that the accused has committed
any offence upon his daughter. The witness remained silent that the
accused persons have done anything wrong with his daughter.
Therefore, the evidence of PW2 did not support the prosecution

Case.

11. PW3 Firoj Khan in his evidence stated that on the date
of occurrence he met Nur and he inquired as to whether there is any
lodge available there and accordingly, he showed a lodge and many
persons thereafter gathered in the lodge. Ext.3 is the statement
U/S.164 of Cr.P.C.

This witness only stated that he showed a lodge to Nur.
He could not say anything as to what happened inside the lodge.
Therefore, his evidence is also of no use to prosecution.

12. PW4 Nur Islam stated that 8/9 months earlier at around
11/12 A.M. accused Musabbir Alom called him to Lakhipur bazaar
and accordingly he met him. He came in a motor cycle and looked
for a lodge and after showing him a lodge he went home.

The witness also proved his statement U/S.164 Cr.P.C.
His evidence shows that he only showed lodge to accused Musabbir.
He remained silent that the accused has done anything wrong with
the victim. Therefore, his evidence is of no use to the prosecution.
13. PW5 stated that 8/9 months earlier accused Musabbir
came and requested him to go for cinema. Later on, he heard that
Police had caught him and thereafter, he gave his statement in the
Court, Ext.5.

The evidence of the witness also remained silent
regarding occurrence of any incident as alleged in the FIR. The
witness remained silent that accused had done anything wrong.
Thus, his evidence is of no use to the prosecution.

14. PW6 Bhaskar Das stated that on 11.04.18 at about
11:30 A.M. he was on duty at Lakhipur market. They received an
information that some boys caught a girl at lodge. He along with
Head constable Nabin Basumatary went to the lodge and on
entering the room they found one girl sitting inside the hall and one
boy was also found inside the room. Later on, they were taken to PS.

The evidence of the witness shows that on the date of
occurrence he came to know that some boys had caught the girl and
the boy. His evidence further shows that public caught a couple. The
evidence of the witness also could not say as to under what
circumstances the girl was found. Therefore, his evidence did not
support the prosecution case that the accused had done anything

wrong with the victim.

15. PW7 Nabin Basumatary stated that on the date of
occurrence at around 12:00 A.M. he was on duty with PW6. On
hearing the sound they went to Jolil lodge and on entering the lodge
they found one room was under lock and key. One girl was sitting
under a bed wearing school uniform. The boy was hiding under the
stair case. They caught the boy. They were accordingly, taken to the
PS.

Though PW6 and PW7 together reached at the P.O. but
PW6 did not corroborate the evidence of PW7 that they found the
girl under a bed and accused was hiding in the stir case. The
evidence of PW7 appears to be doubtful as to whether they found
the couple’ as he disclosed in the Court. The evidence of the PW7
also remained silent that they caught the boy under the bed with the
victim.

16. PW8 Sanowar Hussain stated that 1 year ago Police
looked for a lodge and he accompanied them to the lodge.

Thus, the witness remained silent regarding any
incident occurred inside the lodge. Thus, his evidence is of no use to
the prosecution.

17. PW9 Nozmul Hoque stated that one year ago he was
called by O/C and seized the birth certificate of the prosecutrix and
took his signature. Exts.3,4 and 5 are the seizure lists.

The witness did not say anything about the alleged
incident. He is only the seizure witness whereby the police seized
some documents. Thus, his evidence is of no use to the prosecution.

18. PW10 Bodiur Zaman stated that one year ago O/C
called him to the P.S. and seized the birth certificate in his presence
and took his signature. Ext.3 is the seizure list. The evidence of the
witness also remained silent regarding involvement of the accused
in committing any offence with the prosecutrix. Thus, his evidence is
of no use to prosecution.

19. Lastly, the evidence of the Investigating Officer who
described the steps taken by her during the course of her evidence.
During the course of her evidence she proved the seizure lists Ext.3
and 4, Ext.7 and Ext.8. The witness also proved the two Sketch Maps
Ext.10 and Rx.11 prepared by her. She proved Ext.12 GD entry
No.256 dated 1.04.19 and also proved Charge Sheet Ext.13
submitted by her.

20. In the instant case, the accused persons are facing
trial for commission of offence under the POCSO Act . Hence, the
primary evidence has to come from the victim. The informant is also
victim of the alleged incident who is examined as PW1. In her
evidence she stated that one year back she came with his friend
Mubsabir Alom. They went to the lodge to have a cup tea and the
public gathered there as they saw her in school uniform. They were
caught on suspicion and taken to PS. As per version of the public
she lodged the FIR. The witness proved the FIR Ext.1 and her
statement Ext.2.

21. The star witness was declared hostile and the
prosecution cross-examined the witness. Her evidence shows that on
the date of occurrence, she went to the lodge with accused
Musdabir to have to cup of tea and the public gathered there as
she was in school uniform. Further, this witness stated that out of
suspicion, the public caught them . They were taken to P.S. Thus, the
witness did not support the persecution case. She remained silent
that the accused had done sexual assault upon her or she was
misbehaved by the accused in any manner. The informant is also the
victim of the alleged incident and the primary witness of this case
and without her evidence the prosecution case cannot stand. The
evidence of the victim does not show that any wrong was done with
the victim. Further, the informant has also stated that she lodged
the FIR as asked for by the public who gathered there. Thus, the
evidence of the witness could not corroborate the allegations that
she made in her FIR.

22. In this case, none of the witnesses have stated
anything regarding the commission of any offence committed by the
accused persons upon the victim. The victim also remained silent
that any bad thins was done on her. Simply recovery of the victim
with the accused Musabbair Alom from inside the lodge does not

mean that there was sexual assault upon her.

23. In view of the above discussions | find nothing to hold
that the accused had done any penetrative sexual assault upon the
victim. The medical evidence also does not support the prosecution

CaSe.

24. The evidence of victim clearly shows that she had good
relationship with the accused Mosabbir Alom. Both had gone to the
lodge to have a cup of tea. The victim never raises any objection
while she remained with the accused. The victim nowhere stated
that the accused Mosabbir has committed sexual assault upon the

victim.
25. In view of the above discussion, | am of the view
that accused persons deserves to be acquitted and accordingly, they
are acquitted.

26. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 23"¢
day of December, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by:-

( Sri S. Hazarika, AJS,)
(Sanjay Hazarika, AJS) Special Judge, Goalpara.

Special Judge, Goalpara.

Typed by: Jajneswar Nr. Deb, Stenographer, Goalpara.
APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW1-Informant(victim).
PW2 -Monglu Ram Barman
PW3-Firoj Khan

PW4-Nur Islam
PW5-Mukibar Rahman
PW6-Bhaskar Das
PW7-Nabin Basumatary
PW8-Sanowar Hussain
PW9-Nozmul HOque
PW10- Bodiur Zaman
PW11-Dr. M. Lagachu
PW12-1.0.

DEFENCE WITNESS :-
NIL

COURT WITNESS :-
NIL.

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :-
Ext.1 -F.1.R.
Ext.2-164 Statement of victim.

Ext.3-164 Statement of witness.

Ext.4-Seizure list.
Ext.5-Seizure list.
Ext.6-Birth Certificate.

Spl. Case No.15/18.
Ext.7-Seizure list

Ext.8-Seizure list,

Ext.9-Seizure list,

Ext.10-Sketch Map.
Ext.11-Sketch Map.
Ext.12-Extract copy of G.D.Entry.
Ext.13-Charge Sheet.

DEFENCE EXHIBITS :-
NIL

COURT EXHIBITS :-
NIL

( S. Hazarika, AJS)

Special Judge,Goalpara.

10
