Page 1 of 3
Spl. POCSO Case No. 42/2018
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI,
SONITPUR, ASSAM

Sp!. POCSO Case No. 42/2018
u/s 363 IPC / Sec4 of POCSO Act,2012

State of Assam
-VS-
Sri Rabi Praja

vevees Accused person

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC, cum Special Judge,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Advocates Appeared:-
For the prosecution: Ms. J. Kalita, learned Addl. P.P

For the defence : Mr. P.P. Borah, learned Advocate.

Date of recording Evidence: 22.07.2019.
Date of Argument : 22.07.2019.
Date of Judgment : 22.07.2019,

JUDGMEwT
1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 31.07.2018 the informant namely, Sri Debananda
Soni lodged an FIR with the OC, Biswanath Chariali PS stating inter alia that on 28.07.2018
at about 8 p.m., his 14-year-old daughter was found missing from their house. On the next
day, he could learn from her friend Majuri Bagh that his daughter had love affair with the

accused Rabi Praja. When he went to the house of the accused, he could learn from the

Joe mother of the accused that her son had fled with a girl and could know from her that they
\ a wy =, .-were in the house of his elder sister situated at Line No. 9 of Dikorai Tea Estate.

Sf f

~\ a "Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After

investigation, the police submitted charge sheet against the accused Robi Praja u/s 366-A
IPC r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. The accused in due course appeared before this court, wherein the copies of the relevant
documents were furnished to him. Taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173 CrPC and
upon hearing both the sides on the point of charge, as this court found grounds for
presuming that the accused person had committed offences u/s 363 IPC/ 4 of POCSO Act,

the charges were accordingly framed against him, which on being read over and explained,
Page 2 of 3

Spl. POCSO Case No. 42/2018
he pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial, the prosecution examined the informant and the alleged victim as PW 1 and
PW2 respectively. Looking into the evidence as adduced by both these vital witnesses, the
prosecution declined to examine the remaining witnesses contending that further evidence
would not strengthen its case. Taking note of the evidence of both these witnesses, as no
incriminating evidence was found, the prosecution evidence was: closed and the
examination of the accused person u/s 313 CrPC was dispensed with. The case was
thereafter, argued by both the sides.

Points for determination
i) Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence kidnapped the said victim
who is a minor girl from the lawful guardianship of her father-the informant?
ii) Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed penetrative
sexual assault on the said victim, who is below the age of 18 years?
Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

5. PW 1 is the informant, namely, Sri Debananda Sona. He stated that about a year back, the
victim fled away with the accused. He approached the parents of the accused for recovery
of his daughter. But as they did not help him, he lodged the FIR, which he ‘proved as Ext.
1. Later, police recovered his daughter. He further stated that his daughter was 19-20 years
old at that relevant time. According to him, his daughter later had told him that she had
gone with the accused by mistake and he did not misbehave her.

6. PW 2 is the alleged victim. She stated that she on her own wish had eloped with the
accused as she was in love with him. She thereafter stayed in the house of the elder sister
of the accused. Later she realized and returned back to her father's house. She also stated
that the accused did not misbehave her and did not take her with him forcibly. She proved
her statement recorded u/s 164 CrPC as Ext. 2. She in her cross stated that the accused is
innocent.

7. Thus from the evidence of both these vital witnesses we do not find any evidence against
the accused to convict him on the offences charged against him. The prosecution has

- failed to prove its case. As such, I acquit the accused and set him at liberty forthwith. His
bail bond stands discharged. The provision of Sec. 437-A CrPC is not complied with after
taking note of the materials on record. A copy of the judgment be forwarded to the District
Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec. 365 Cr.P.C. The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 22nd day of July, 2019.

pun ¥

Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
cum Special Judge,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.

Tati tegeial
Page 3 of 3
Spl. POCSO Case No. 42/2018

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1-Sri Debananda Sona
PW2-Victim

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Ext.1- FIR
Ext.2- Stateme of the victim u/s 164 CrPC

Witnesses examined by the Defence:
None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

None.

a

A a, \)
( Zon

weep Cgeeraryt dpaae
Aa: crore EE Se wait Ke

easwerisil Set beah ahh, Se agate
