IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE, SI VASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Special | udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 18 of 2015 U/S 12 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Charaipung P.S. Case No. 159/2015)

APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution
For the accused

Date of framing Charge
Dates of Evidence

Date of S/D
Date of Argument
Date of J udgment

1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 27.06.2015, Smt. Munu Bhuyan
lodged an FIR with I/C, Nitaipukhuri Out Post alleging, inter alia, that on that
day, at about 4.00 P.M., while her daughter victim 'C' (named withheld), aged
about 10 years was alone in the house, accused Babor Bhuyan came to her
house and attempted to disrobe her. On this, victim rushed to her grand-

mother and reported the incident and when her grand-mother came out in

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Babor Bhuyan ..........0.000 Accused

Sri A. K. Bora, P. P.
Sri G. R. Konwar, Advocate

16.10.2015

22.12.2015, 24.02.2016, 02.02.2017,
24.03.2017, 12.06.2017.

11.07.2017

05.01.2018

19.01.2018

JUDGMENT

search of the accused, he flew away from the house.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Nitaipukhuri O.P. G.D. Entry No. 421, dated

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015

Page 1 of 12
27.06.15 was made and forwarded the FIR to O/C Demow P.S. for registering a
case. Accordingly Demow P.S. Case No.159/2015 U/S 12 of POCSO Act, 2012 was
registered and investigated into. During investigation, |.0. visited the place of
occurrence, prepared sketch map and recorded the statement of the witnesses.
During investigation, accused was arrested and on 29.06.2015 produced him
before the court for judicial custody. The victim was medically examined and
recorded her statement in the court U/S 164 Cr.P.C. On completion of
investigation, 1.0. has submitted Charge-Sheet U/S 12 of POCSO Act, 2012

against the accused person.

3. On receipt of charge sheet, copy was furnished to him. After hearing
both the sides, vide order dated 16.10.2015, my learned predecessor in office
has framed the charge U/S 12 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial. On this date, accused
was allowed to go on bail. During trial, prosecution side has examined eight

witnesses including the victim.

4, Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was examined
U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial and false implication. Accused

declined to adduce evidence when he was called upon to enter into defence.

Dis | have heard argument of learned P.P. Mr. A.K. Bora and Mr. G.R.
Konwar, learned defence counsel and gone through the evidence on record. |

have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

6. (1) Whether on 27.06.2015, at about 4 PM accused committed

sexual harassment on the victim 'C' with sexual intent?
DECI SION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. P.W. 1 Smt. Munu Bhuyan, the informant as well as the mother of
the victim in her evidence deposed that at the time of incident, victim 'C' was

aged about 11 years. On the date of incident, she and her husband went to

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015 Page 2 of 12
paddy field leaving behind her two minor children, her mother-in-law Bowl
Bhuyan, victim and another woman. After returning from field, her mother-in-
law informed her that accused came to their residence and asked for a glass of
water. Due to bad weather, while victim was sitting inside the room accused
touched her breast and attempted to commit misdeed and on this, victim
rushed to her grand-mother and accused flew away. On asking victim, she told
her that accused grabbed her and attempted to commit misdeed. This matter
was informed to Gaonburah and thereafter lodged the FIR Exbt. 1 at
Nitaipukhuri Out Post. In her cross she admitted that accused is her neighbour
and has visiting relationship with them. She denied the defence suggestion that
after taking a loan of Rs. 1500/- she did not return the amount and on demand
by the accused he was threatened to send him Jail. She also admitted that
though there are about 20 to 25 persons have their residence near to her
residence, she did not inform any one of them. The residence of Gaonburah is
at a short distance. She denied that with an intention to not to return the

amount she filed this false case against the accused.

8. P.W. 2, the victim 'C' in her evidence deposed that while she was
returning home after sending one of her guest, the accused met her on the
road and asked for a cup of country made liquor and came with her to her
residence. She offered one cup of country made liquor. By that time the
weather turned hostile and while she entered in her room, accused also
followed her and caused her laid on the bed and touched her breast. On this
she managed to escape and rushed to the residence of her grand-mother and
informed the matter. On return of her parents, she informed the matter to them.
Her mother lodged the FIR. Police got her medically examined and also took
her to Court where she gave her statement. Exbt. 2 is her statement in Court.
In cross-examination, she admitted that at their residence, she used to sell
country made liquor. They have three rooms in their house. Country made
liquor was kept in the third room. On that day she offered one bottle of country

made liquor and accused paid for the same. After consuming liquor, accused

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015 Page 3 of 12
and she sat in one bench. While she was standing, accused touched her breast
and she ran away to her grand-mother. At the same court-yard Rampal,
Bhaikon, Bimal and their family members have their residence. After this
incident, she was taken to the residence of the accused. She admitted that
before police and Court she stated that at the time of incident, she was
Sleeping alone in her house. She denied defence suggestion that accused did

not come to her house nor committed any misdeed with her.

9. P.W. 3 Smt. Boli Bhuya, the grand-mother of the victim in her
evidence deposed that on the date of incident victim rushed to her house and
out of fear hugged her. On asking victim told her that accused Babor had
grabbed her with an intention to commit misdeed. While she went out in search
of the accused, he flew away. In her cross she admitted that her house is
adjacent to the residence of victim. She did not have good relation with the
accused. She also denied that inspite of taking loan from accused they did not

return the amount and filed this false case against the accused.

10. P.W. 4 Sri Bhaikon Bhuyan in his evidence deposed that accused
Babor Bhuyan is his cousin and victim is his daughter. On 27.06.2015 while he
returned from his work place, at about 4.00 p.m. he heard that while his
daughter, i.e. victim was at home with her grand-mother, accused Babor
Bhuyan came to his house and asked for a glass of water. Victim also told him
that accused took her to bed and laid on the bed and touched her body. On
making hue and cry, accused leave her and she ran to his mother Bowli Bhuyan
and narrated the incident. On this, he took the victim to Gaonburah and as per
his suggestion, he went to Nitaipukhuri Put Post and his wife Runu Bhuyan
lodged the FIR. In cross examination, he deposed that he has country made
liquor business at his residence. He denied the defence suggestion that as
accused has restrained him from doing illegal liquor business, they have falsely
implicated the accused without any incident. He denied that his victim has not

told him regarding asking of water and taking to bed, touching her body etc. He

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015 Page 4 of 12
also denied that he has given false evidence. His mother is alive and presently
She is aged about 60 years. Several peoples have their residence near to his
house. He denied that as our case is based on false facts, none of the

neighbour has come forward to adduce evidence.

11. P.W. 5 Sri Haren Khanikar in his evidence deposed that on
27.06.2015 while he was in his residence near Nitaipukhuri Out Post, he wrote
an FIR as dictated by Munu Bhuyan. Exbt. 1 is the said FIR written by him. He
proved his signature as Exbt. 1(2). In his cross examination he deposed that he
has no personal knowledge about the incident. He usually writes FIR on request
Since last ten years. He has experience in writing FIR to make out a case. Police
has recorded his statement. He denied the defence suggestion that he has

exaggerated the facts in the FIR and did not state anything before police.

12; PW-6 Sri Bimal Bhuyan, uncle of the accused in his evidence
deposed that victim C is his niece. At the time of occurrence she was aged
about 10 years. On 27.06.2015, at about 4 pm, while he was returning home by
taking cows, he saw that victim was crying at the residence of her grandmother
Bawli Bhuyan. On this he went to said residence and on asking the reason for
her crying, Bawali told him that accused Babar has grabbed the victim while she
was alone by entering in her house. On asking victim also told him that accused
came to her residence to consume liquor and finding her alone, grabbed her. In
his cross-examination he admitted that Bowli Bhuyan is his mother. Victim
complained the matter to his mother. Bhaikan is his brother. Victim is the

daughter of Bhaikan.

13. PW-7 Smt. Kamala Bhuyan in her evidence deposed that accused
Babar Bhuyan is her brother-in-law. Victim is her niece. At the time of
occurrence she was a Student of class VII. On 27.06.2015, on hearing hue and
cry he went there and saw that Babar Bhuyan left the house of victim. On
asking victim told her that while she was alone, accused Babar entered the

house, asked for a glass of water and grabbed her. After grabbing her accused

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015 Page 5 of 12
laid her in bed and put the pillow on her mouth. After this, she took the victim
to the residence of accused but seeing them accused flew away. In her cross-
examination she admitted that she has not seen the incident of grabbing or

laying of victim on bed. She denied to have deposed falsely.

14. PW-8 SI Sunthorn Shyam in his evidence deposed that on
27.06.2015, while he was posted as I/C Nitaipukhuri OP, on that day he
received one written FIR from Munu Bhuyan and making a G D Entry vide No.
421 dated 27.06.2015 sent the FIR to Demow PS and accordingly O/C has
registered Demow PS case No. 159/15 u/s 12 of POCSO Act and entrusted him
to investigate the case. On taking charge of investigation, he examined the
informant and other 2 at PS campus. Thereafter, he went to the place of
occurrence i.e. residence of informant at Dupani Gaon and drawn a sketch map
of the PO. Exbt. 3 is the said sketch map. He also examined witness found at
the PO. During investigation, he apprehended the accused. Victim was sent for
medical examination and also sent to Court for recording her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. During investigation, he collected the medical report and statement
given by victim in court. Exbt. 4 is the medical report of victim. In the medical
report the age of the victim was mentioned as above 16 years but below 18
years. It is also opined that no injury was found on the body of the victim. On
completion of investigation, he submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s
12 of POCSO Act. Exbt. 5 is the charge sheet. In his cross-examination PW 8
denied the defence suggestion that he has recorded statement of witnesses at
the dictation of the victim. He also denied that he did the investigation

perfunctorily.

16. From the above evidence on record, let me decide the point
formulated. So far the age of the victim is concerned, from the evidence on
record, particularly from the evidence of P.W. 1, the mother of the victim and
P.W. 6, the uncle of the victim it appears that at the relevant time victim was

aged about 10-11 years. However 1.0. (P.W.8) while proving the medical report

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015 Page 6 of 12
vide Exbt. 4 deposed that in the medical report age of the victim was
mentioned as above 16 years but below 18 years. While giving her evidence in
court on 24.02.2016, the victim stated her age as 11 years. Defence has not
challenged the age of the victim at any point of time. So from the above
evidence on record it appears that on the date of occurrence victim is below the
age of 18 years and Is a child defined under POCSO Act.

17. Now coming on the allegation of sexual harassment upon the
victim, admittedly except P.W. 2 the victim, other witnesses heard the incident
from the victim 'C' and they have not seen the incident of their own. However
they led certain circumstances regarding the incident. Let me see how far the
evidence of victim 'C' is reliable. In the course of argument hearing, learned SPI
PP has vehemently argued that the evidence of the victim is found wholly
reliable to hold that she was subjected to sexual harassment by the accused.
The other witnesses who heard the incident from victim has duly supported her.
He also argued that just after the incident, victim reported the matter to PW 3
and on return of her parent, she informed the matter to them. On the other
side, learned advocate for defence has advanced one line argument that
prosecution has failed to prove the case and as such, accused should be

acquitted.

18. If we closely scrutinize the evidence as narrated herein-above, it is
seen from the evidence of P.W. 2, the victim, that after sending off the guest,
while victim returned home and was alone in her house, accused came to her
house, purchased a glass of liquor and consumed the same. By that time the
weather turned hostile and while victim entered in her room, accused followed
her and grabbed her. Immediately she got herself rescued, informed the matter
to Bowli Bhuyan (P.W.3) and thereafter her parents and others. During cross
examination defence has confirmed the fact of coming of accused to the house
of victim and purchasing of one liquor bottle by paying Rs. 10/- for the same.

P.W. 3 Bowli Bhuyan in her evidence briefly stated that on the date of incident,

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015 Page 7 of 12
suddenly victim 'C' came running to her and told her regarding hugging her by
the accused. While she went to search the accused, she saw the accused was
going out of the house. P.W. 7 Smt. Kamala Bhuyan in her evidence also stated
that on hearing hue and cry at the residence of the victim, she went there and
Saw the accused Babor Bhuyan while leaving the house. From the above
evidence, it is clear that on the day of occurrence, i.e. on 27.06.2015, at about
4.00 P.M. while victim was alone in her house, accused Babor Bhuyan came to
her house, purchased liquor and consumed the same and he was seen by
P.W.3 and P.W.7 while leaving the house of the victim. Thus presence of

accused in the house of victim is proved beyond doubt.

19. From the evidence of P.W.2, the victim it further appears that she
has reported the matter of grabbing her by the accused to her parents and
other witnesses. P.W. 1 and P.W. 4, being the parents of the victim, PW 3, P.W.
6 and P.W.7 who are the residents of the same campus in their evidence have
categorically stated that just after the incident, victim has reported them that
accused came to her house and after asking for a glass of water, while she
entered the house, accused grabbed her. This part of evidence remains

corroborated by P.W. 2, the victim that she has informed the matter to them.

20. It may be noted here that though other witnesses were silent on
purchasing liquor and their evidence confined to taking a glass of water, to my
mind it is nothing but a minor discrepancy and needs to be overlooked in the
light of reliable evidence of grabbing of the victim by the accused at her house.
The other discrepancies as pointed out as to whether the victim was laid on the
bed or not is also immaterial because grabbing of a minor girl while she was
alone clearly indicates that accused has sexual intent tried to have physical
contact. Defence plea was that prosecution has failed to prove the case is not

acceptable.

21. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of B.B.Hirjibhai vs. State of
Gujrat(AIR 1983 SC 753) held that

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015 Page 8 of 12
“over much importance cannot be attached to minor discrepancies. The
reasons are obvious:

a) By and large a witness cannot be expected to possess a photographic
memory and recall the details of an incident. It is not as it video tape is
replayed on the mental screen.

b) Ordinarily it so happens that a witnesses over taken by events . The
witness could not have anticipated the occurrence, which so often has an
element of surprise. The mental faculties is therefore cannot be expected
to be attuned to absorb the details.

c) The powers of observation differ from person to person. What one
may notice, another may not. An object or movement might emboss its
image on one person's mind, whereas it might go unnoticed on the part
of another.

d) By and large people cannot accurately recall a conversation and
reproduce the very words used by them for heard by them. They can
only recall the main purport of the conversation. It is unrealistic to
expect witness to be human tape recorder.

e) In regard to exact time of an incident, or the time duration of an
occurrence, usually, people make their estimates by guess word on the
spur of the moment at the time of interrogation. And one cannot expect
people to make very precise or reliable estimates in such matters. Again
it depends on the time sense of individuals which varies from person to
person.

f) Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall acutely the sequence
of events which take place in rapid succession or in a short time spun.
The witnesses is liable to get confused, or mixed up when interrogated
later on.

g) A witness though wholly truthful, is liable to be overawed by the court
atmosphere and the piercing cross-examination made by counsel and out
of nervousness mix-up facts, get confused regarding sequence of events,
or fill up detail from imagination on the spar of moment. The
Subconscious mind of the witness sometimes so operates on account of
the fear of liking foolist or being disbelieved though the witness is giving
a truthful and honest account of occurrence, witnesses by him perhaps it
is a sort of psychological defence mechanism activated on the spurt of
the moment.”

It is further held that “discrepancies which do not go to the root
of the matter and stake the basis version of the witness therefore cannot
be annexed with undue importance. More so when the all-important
probabilities-factor echoes in favour of the version narrated by the
witnesses.”

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015 Page 9 of 12
22. In this case, the discrepancies as pointed out do not go to the root
of the case, Hence | found the evidence of victim as reliable and trustworthy so
far the allegation of sexual harassment is concerned by way of grabbing her by

the accused.

23. In view of above discussions, | hold that prosecution has been
able to make out a case of sexual harassment by the accused upon the victim
with sexual intent and as such accused is liable for punishment under Section
12 of POCSO Act, 2012.

24. Considering all above, accused Babor Bhuyan is held guilty for the
offence punishable U/S 12 of POCSO Act, 2012 and convicted accordingly for

the said offence.

25. | have considered the applicability of Section 3 & 4 of Probation of
Offenders Act in this case. Considering the nature of the offence proved by the
prosecution, | am not inclined to extend the benefit of Section 3 and 4 of

Probation of Offenders Act to the convict.

26. Heard the convict on the point of sentence. His statement is
recorded in separate sheets. Accused stated that he is innocent. | have also
heard learned Advocate for both the sides. Learned PP by referring to the
object of the Act, pressed for maximum punishment. On the other hand learned
advocate for the convict has prayed for leniency in sentence by referring the
poor financial condition of the accused and the fact that accused is the sole

bread earner of his family.

27. From the record it appears that during trial, convict was in jail
custody from 29.06.2015 till 17.10.2015. Considering the nature of the offence
proved by the prosecution and the family background of the accused as
narrated by learned advocate of accused, | am of the opinion that a sentence of
3 (three) Months Simple Imprisonment with fine of Rs. 2000/- (Two thousand)
will meet the ends of justice for committing the offence punishable U/S 12 of
POCSO Act, 2012.

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015 Page 10 of 12
28. Accordingly convict Babor Bhuyan is sentenced to undergo S.I. for
3 (three) Months Simple Imprisonment with fine of Rs. 2000/- (Two thousand)
i/d further SI of one month for the offence U/S 12 of POCSO Act, 2012.

29. Convict is entitled to the benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C. for the

period already undergone.

30. It is further provided that in the event of realization fine amount,
the entire amount be paid to the informant as compensation for her minor
daughter for the trauma suffered by the victim. Considering the fact of grant of
compensation u/s 357 Cr.P.C, | am of the opinion that it is a not fit case for
referring the matter to DLSA for granting further compensation U/S 357-A
Cr.P.C.

31. A free copy of the J udgment be furnished to the convict.

32. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

33. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 19" day of

January 2018 at Sivasagar.

Special J udge,

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015 Page 11 of 12
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses -

P.W.1- Smt. Munu Bhuyan (Informant)
P.W.2- (Victim)

P.W.3- Smt. Bowli Bhuyan

P.W.4- Sri Bhaikon Bhuyan

P.W.5- Sri Haren Khanikar

P.W.6- Sri Bimal Bhuyan

P.W.7- Smt. Kamala Bhuyan

P.W.8- SI Sunthorn Dhyam (1.0.)

2. Defence witnesses : None

3. Court witnesses None

4. Exhibits by prosecution -
Exbt.1- FIR
Exbt.2 - Statement of the victim recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Exbt.3 - Sketch map

Exbt.4 - Medical report
Exbt.5 - Charge-Sheet

Special J udge
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2015 Page 12 of 12
