IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018
(G.R. Case No. 46 of 2018)
Jengraimukh P.S. Case No. 13 of 2018

Transmitting Magistrate:-

Sri Lakhi Nandan Pegu,
Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate [M],
Majuli, Jorhat

State of Assam

-Versus-

Sri Firoj Pegu,

Son of Sri Sankarlal Pegu,

Resident of Namoni Cherapai,

P.S. Jengraimukh,

District-Jorhat. ... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri Bambeswar Barua, Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 376 [2] [i] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTIONS 4/8 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM
SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 12-06-2018

Date of prosecution evidence : 04-07-2018; 27-09-2018; 17-12-2018;
& 26-12-2018

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 03-01-2019

Date of Argument : 11-01-2019

Date of Judgment : 18-01-2019

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Jengraimukh P.S. Case No.
13/2018 under Section 376 [2] [i] of IPC read with Section 4 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was registered on
the basis of a F.I.R. lodged by Sri Bolin Pegu, elder brother of the victim
[hereinafter referred to as ‘X’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 21/04/2018 [Exhibit-2] the
informant Sri Bolin Pegu [PW-3] who is the elder brother of the victim [PW-2]
alleged, /nter-alia, that on 19/04/2018 while his younger sister came out of the
house towards the shop located at Namoni Cherapai village under Jengraimukh
P.S., the accused Firoj Pegu committed rape upon his younger sister. It is further
alleged by the informant that prior to the date of incident the accused committed
rape upon his younger sister.

On receipt of the ejahar by the then Officer-in- charge,
Jengraimukh P.S. the same was registered vide Jengraimukh P.S. Case No.
13/2018 under Section 376 [2] [i] of IPC as well as under Section 4 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the statement of the victim
girl was recorded by the I.O. of the case. The victim’s statement under Section
164 of Cr.P.C. was also recorded by the learned Magistrate. Police, on completion
of investigation, filed charge-sheet in the case against the above named accused
Firoj Pegu u/S. 376 [2] [i] of IPC as well as under Section 4 of the Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 vide Charge-sheet No. 14/2018 dated
30-04-2018.

2). The learned Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate [M], Majuli, Jorhat
transmitted the case to this Court for trial. Copy was furnished to the accused in
due course.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents

submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the
prosecution in this behalf and on finding ground for presuming that the accused
has committed offences under Section 376 [2] [i] of IPC read with Sections 4/8

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018
of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, the charges were
framed, read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded

not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 10 [ten] numbers of witnesses including
the victim girl, her elder brother-cum-informant, Sub-Divisional Judicial
Magistrate [M], Majuli, doctor and the I.0. were examined on behalf of the
prosecution to prove the charge against accused.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that he has been

falsely implicated in the case. The accused pleaded innocence.

5). I have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor
for the State as well as Sri Bambeswar Barua, learned Counsel for the accused
who is facing trial for commission of offence u/S. 376 [e] [i] of IPC read with
Sections 4/8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on or about 19/04/2018 the accused committed rape
upon the minor sister of the informant Sri Balin Pegu while she
went to fetch some articles from a nearby shop, and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 376 [2] [i] of
IPC?

2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused named above
committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim boy and
thereby committed an offence punishable under Sections 4/8 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7). To decide the above points against accused in this case, let us
examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses alongwith the

documents.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018
8). Smt. Gayatri Senapati [PW-1] who was Deputy Superintendent of
CSC, Majuli, on 23/04/2018 examined the victim on police requisition and opined
that no semen was seen; no any injury mark on the private part of victim and the
age of victim as per radiological report is between 10 to 11 years. She exhibited
her report as Exhibit-1 and her signature thereon vide Exhibit-1 [1].

The doctor during cross-examination stated that she did not find any
injury on the person of victim and further that she has not submitted any report

whether hymen was ruptured or not.

9). In the instant case the victim has deposed her evidence as PW-2.
In her testimony, she divulged that on the date of incident she went to cut wood
at about 7.00 A.M. with two other persons namely Sri Jaanmoni Pegu and Smt.
Deepsikha Pegu. She went to different places to cut wood. At that time the
accused arrived at the said place and grabbed her from back side and gagged
her mouth with cloth and tried to commit rape upon her. She then called her
companions and when they came the later fled away from the place of
occurrence. It is further version of the victim that she returned back home and
narrated the incident before her elder sister Smt. Manisha Pegu. Then her elder
brother lodged ejahar before police against the accused. She was medically
examined by a doctor, produced before a Magistrate for recording her statement
under Section 164 Cr.P.C. which she exhibited as Exhibit-1. Further version of
this witness is to the effect that she put her thumb impression in the aforesaid
statement recorded by the learned Magistrate.

During cross-examination, she flatly denied defence suggestions that
she did not state before police that accused tried to commit bad work with her

but he did not succeed.

10). Sri Bolin Pegu [PW-3] is the elder brother of victim-cum-
informant of the case. During his testimony, he deposed that on 19/04/2018 the
incident took place. On the date of incident he was present inside the house. At
that time the accused entered into the house under influence of liquor. At that

time the victim went to relieve herself and the later teased her. Thereafter, he

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018
lodged ejahar before police as narrated by his younger sister [PW-2]. This
witness exhibited the ejahar vide Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2 [1] is his signature.
This witness during cross-examination divulged that he has not
explained the cause of delay in lodging the ejahar before police. The instant case
was lodged by him for the conduct of the accused who came to his house under
influence of liquor. He confirmed that accused did not touch his younger sister
though the later used slang language but the accused did not cause any harm to

them.

11). Smt. Julie Pegu [PW-4] who is the related sister of victim testified
during her evidence that on the date of incident she was speaking to someone
on her mobile phone at her courtyard. At that time the sister-in-law of victim was
calling the victim but the later replied lately. She noticed the accused alongwith
the victim near the bamboo fencing of the house of victim. Seeing her, the later
fled away from the place of occurrence. This witness further stated that it was
about 7.00 P.M. She witnessed the accused as well as victim in indecent situation
but on that day the victim did not state her anything.

This witness during cross-examination from defence side stated that at
the time of incident it was dark but she noticed the accused while fleeing away
from the place of incident. She denied defence suggestion that she did not state
before police that she witnessed the accused in the light while he was fleeing
away from the house of victim and that while she was speaking on her phone at

that time the sister-in-law of the victim was calling her.

12). Miss Dipanjali Pegu [PW-5] during her evidence stated that on the
date of incident she went with the victim towards the field where the victim
stated before her that the accused dragged her towards the backside of her
residence.

This witness was declared hostile by prosecution and during cross-

 

examination by prosecution side, this witness denied to have stated before police
that “on the next day of incident when victim went with her to the field

she told her that on the previous night the accused entered into their

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018
house campus and dragged her to the back side of the house and took
her near a tree where he opened her pants and did bad work with her”.

During cross-examination by defence side, this witness stated that
she did not state anything before police as told by the prosecution side today

before her.

13). Smt. Monalisha Pegu [PW-6] who is the cousin sister of victim
stated that on the date of incident at about 7.30 P.M. she called the victim for
three times but she replied at the last call of her. It is further version of this
witness that Miss Julie Pegu [PW-5] divulged before her that she had witnessed
the victim and the accused in indecent situation. Further, she divulged that victim
did not tell her anything at night but she kept on weeping.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side denied to
have stated before police that accused did bad work with the victim. She clarified

that victim did not tell her anything about the incident.

14). Sri Amiya Pegu [PW-7] deposed that on the date of incident he
heard hue and cry in the house of victim. He did not ask anything to the victim
regarding the incident.

This witness was declared hostile by prosecution side and during

 

cross-examination this witness denied to have stated before police that “he
heard from the father of victim that her daughter [PW-2] who is ten
years of age on 18/04/2018 at about 9.00 P.M. while she was returning
from the shop the accused grabbed her and took her to his house and
did bad work with her”.

During cross-examination by defence side, this witness stated that
he did not meet the victim and she did not tell before him anything about the

incident.
15). The evidence of Sri Riten Pegu [PW-8] is to the effect that on

the next day of incident he went towards the house of victim. Police did not

record his statement in connection with the case.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018
This witness was also declared hostile by prosecution and

 

during cross-examination by prosecution side, he denied to have stated before
police that “he heard from the father of victim that her daughter [PW-2]
who is ten years of age on 18/04/2018 at about 9.00 P.M. while she
was returning from the shop the accused grabbed her and took her to
his house and did bad work with her”.

During cross-examination by defence side, this witness stated that
he did not meet the victim and she did not tell before him anything about the

incident.

16). Sri Hema Kanta Nath, I.0. of the case [PW-9] deposed about
the routine steps taken by him during investigation of the case. He visited the
place of occurrence and drew Sketch Map of the site of occurrence with index
vide Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is his signature. He also recorded statement
of witnesses who were acquainted with the fact & circumstance of the case.
Further, the I.0. stated that Officer-in-charge, Jengraimukh P.S. submitted
charge-sheet against the accused vide Exhibit-4 wherein Exhibit-4 [1] is the
signature of Smt. Indreswari Pegu, the then Officer-in-charge, Jengraimukh P.S.
which he knows.

The I.0. confirmed that witness Sri Amiya Pegu [PW-7] during
his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. stated before him that “he heard from
the father of victim that her daughter [PW-2] who is ten years of age
on 18/04/2018 at about 9.00 P.M. while she was returning from the
shop the accused grabbed her and took her to his house and did bad
work with her”.

Witness Sri Riten Pegu [PW-8] during his statement under
Section 161 Cr.P.C. disclosed before him that “he heard from the father of
victim that her daughter [PW-2] who is ten years of age on
18/04/2018 at about 9.00 P.M. while she was returning from the shop
the accused grabbed her and took her to his house and did bad work
with her”.

The I.0. during cross-examination by defence side stated that

ejahar was lodged on 21/04/2018 whereas the incident took place on

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018
19/04/2018 but there is no explanation as to delay in lodging the ejahar before
police by the informant. He also confirmed that the informant [PW-3] did not
state before him about the reason of delay in lodging the ejahar before police. It
is further stated by the I.O. that victim was sent for medico legal examination on
21/04/2018 but she was examined by the doctor on 23/04/2018. He confirmed
that he did not seize the wearing apparel of the victim and he did not record the

statement of the shop owner where the victim went before the incident.

17). Sri Lakhi Nandan Pegu, Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate
[M], Majuli [PW-10] stated that on 23/04/2018 he examined the victim on
police requisition vide Exhbit-5 wherein Exhibit-5 [1] is his signature as Recording
Officer. The victim gave voluntary statement before him who was accompanied
by WPC 861 Smt. Binapani Kachari.

This witness during cross-examination stated that he has not given
any certificate at the time of recording statement of the victim under Section 164
Cr.P.C. He admitted that he did not ask the victim whether she has been tutored

by someone else to give her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

18). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that the
victim [PW-2] knew the accused from before as the later was her neighbour. On
the date of incident she went to cut wood at about 7.00 A.M. with two other
persons namely Sri Jaanmoni Pegu and Smt. Deepsikha Pegu. She went to
different places to cut wood. At that time the accused arrived at the said place
and grabbed her from back side and gagged her mouth with cloth and tried to
commit rape upon her. She then called her companions and when they came the
later fled away from the place of occurrence. It is further version of the victim
that she returned back home and narrated the incident before her elder sister
Smt. Manisha Pegu. Then her elder brother lodged ejahar before police against
the accused. She was medically examined by a doctor, produced before a
Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. which she
exhibited as Exhibit-1. Further version of this witness is to the effect that she put
her thumb impression in the aforesaid statement recorded by the learned

Magistrate.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018
During cross-examination, she flatly denied defence suggestions that
she did not state before police that accused tried to commit bad work with her

but he did not succeed.

19). From the evidence of the elder brother-cum-informant of the case
Sri Bolin Pegu [PW-3], it is seen that on 19/04/2018 the incident took place. On
the date of incident he was present inside the house. At that time the accused
entered into the house under influence of liquor. At that time the victim went to
relieve herself and the later teased her. Thereafter, he lodged ejahar before
police as narrated by his younger sister [PW-2]. This witness exhibited the ejahar
vide Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2 [1] is his signature.

This witness during cross-examination divulged that he has not
explained the cause of delay in lodging the ejahar before police. The instant case
was lodged by him for the conduct of the accused who came to his house under
influence of liquor. He confirmed that accused did not touch his younger sister
though the later used slang language but the accused did not cause any harm to
them. Thus, PW-2 has demolished the case of prosecution and has contradicted

the victim.

20). The evidence of Smt. Julie Pegu [PW-4] who is the related sister of
victim goes to show that on the date of incident she was speaking to someone
on her mobile phone at her courtyard. At that time the sister-in-law of victim was
calling the victim but the later replied lately. She noticed the accused alongwith
the victim near the bamboo fencing of the house of victim. Seeing her, the later
fled away from the place of occurrence. This witness further stated that it was
about 7.00 P.M. She witnessed the accused as well as victim in indecent situation
but on that day the victim did not state her anything.

This witness during cross-examination from defence side stated that at
the time of incident it was dark but she noticed the accused while fleeing away
from the place of incident. She denied defence suggestion that she did not state
before police that she witnessed the accused in the light while he was fleeing
away from the house of victim and that while she was speaking on her phone at

that time the sister-in-law of the victim was calling her.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018
10

21). From the evidence of Miss Dipanjali Pegu [PW-5] it is seen that this
witness during her evidence stated that on the date of incident she went with the
victim towards the field where the victim stated before her that the accused
dragged her towards the backside of her residence.

This witness was declared hostile by prosecution and during cross-
examination by prosecution side, this witness denied to have stated before police
that “on the next day of incident when victim went with her to the field
she told her that on the previous night the accused entered into their
house campus and dragged her to the back side of the house and took
her near a tree where he opened her pants and did bad work with her”.

During cross-examination by defence side, this witness stated that
she did not state anything before police as told by the prosecution today before

her.

22). Smt. Monalisha Pegu [PW-6] who is the cousin sister of victim stated
that on the date of incident at about 7.30 P.M. she called the victim for three
times but she replied at the last call of her. It is further version of this witness
that Miss Julie Pegu [PW-5] divulged before her that she had witnessed the
victim and the accused in indecent situation. Further, she divulged that victim did
not tell her anything at night but she kept on weeping.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side denied to
have stated before police that accused did bad work with the victim. She clarified

that victim did not tell her anything about the incident.

23). Sri Amiya Pegu [PW-7] deposed that on the date of incident he
heard hue and cry in the house of victim. He did not ask anything to the victim
regarding the incident.

This witness was declared hostile by prosecution side and during

 

cross-examination this witness denied to have stated before police that “he
heard from the father of victim that her daughter [PW-2] who is ten
years of age on 18/04/2018 at about 9.00 P.M. while she was returning
from the shop the accused grabbed her and took her to his house and
did bad work with her”.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018

10
11

During cross-examination by defence side, this witness stated that
he did not meet the victim and she did not tell before him anything about the

incident.

24). The evidence of Sri Riten Pegu [PW-8] is to the effect that on
the next day of incident he went towards the house of victim. Police did not
record his statement in connection with the case.

This witness was also declared hostile by prosecution and

 

during cross-examination by prosecution side, he denied to have stated before
police that “he heard from the father of victim that her daughter [PW-2]
who is ten years of age on 18/04/2018 at about 9.00 P.M. while she
was returning from the shop the accused grabbed her and took her to
his house and did bad work with her”.

During cross-examination by defence side, this witness stated that
he did not meet the victim and she did not tell before him anything about the

incident.

25). The 1.0. [PW-9] during his cross-examination stated that ejahar was
lodged on 21/04/2018 whereas the incident took place on 19/04/2018 but there
is no explanation as to delay in lodging the ejahar before police by the informant.
He also confirmed that the informant [PW-3] did not state before him about the
reason of delay in lodging the ejahar before police. This fact also gets full
corroboration from the evidence of the informant [PW-3]. It is further stated by
the I.O. that victim was sent for medico legal examination on 21/04/2018 but she
was examined by the doctor on 23/04/2018. He confirmed that he did not seize
the wearing apparel of the victim and he did not record the statement of the

shop owner where the victim went before the incident.

26). The evidence of Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate [M], Majuli,
Jorhat [PW-10] clearly establishes the fact that he has not given any certificate at
the time of recording statement of the victim under Section 164 Cr.P.C. He
admitted that he did not ask the victim whether she has been tutored by

someone else to give her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018

11
12

27). It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole evidence of a
child witness is permissible, if such witness is found competent to testify and the
court, after careful scrutiny of its evidence.

In the present case, the victim [PW-2] has not been found
consistent on the material particulars with regard to the incident. Furthermore,
the prosecution side did not examine the shopkeeper where the victim went prior
to the incident. Flip-flop evidence has been tendered by the victim [PW-2] which
gets no support from the evidence of informant [PW-3] and independent

witnesses of the case, as mentioned hereinabove.

28). Thus, on appreciation of the evidence on record as well as other facts
and circumstances of the case together, it is found that no full proof case has
been made out against accused Sri Firoj Pegu to warrant his conviction under
Section 376 [2] [i] IPC as well as under Sections 4/8 of The Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Prosecution has not been able to make
out a case against the accused Sri Firoj Pegu under the aforesaid sections of law
beyond reasonable doubt, for which, I am of the opinion that the accused is
entitled to acquittal under benefit of doubt which I accordingly do.

Accused is on bail. The bail bond of accused is extended for another

06 [six] months from today as per provision of Section 437-A Cr.P.C.

29). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 18th day of
January 2019.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-13

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018

12
13

ANNEXURES:-

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PW-1 Dr. Gayatri Senapati who examined the victim.

PW-2 Victim.

PW-3 Sri Bolin Pegu, elder brother of victim-cum-
informant of the case.

PW-4 Smt. Julie Pegu, teacher.

PW-5 Miss Dipanjali Pegu, cultivator.

PW-6 Smt. Monalisha Pegu, cultivator.

PW-7 Sri Amiya Pegu, cultivator.

PW-8 Sri Riten Pegu, cultivator.

PW-9 Sri Hema Kanta Nath, I.0O. of the case.

PW-10 Sri Lakhi Nandan Pegu, S.D.J.M. [M], Majuli who
recorded statement of the victim [PW-2]

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Medico-legal report of victim

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index
Exhibit-4 Charge-sheet

 

MATERIAL EXHIBIT NO-1:- NIL

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NIL

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018 1 3
SPECIAL CASE NO. 30 OF 2018

14

14
