IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE :::: BONGAIGAON

ZIV £4EE WU ASL YY UC Se eee

Special (P) Case No. 3(BGN )/2018.
U/S 294/506/34 IPC read with section

4 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Bongaigaon P.S Case No.
855/2017)
State of Assam
Vs.
1. Saiful Islam and

2. Sah Alom Seikh. __........ Accused.

PRESENT :- Sri Binod Kumar Chetri,
Special Judge (under POCSO Act),

Bongaigaon.

Appearance :-.

For the State : Smti R.Choudhury, Special Public
Prosecutor.

For the accused : Sri K.Das, Advocate.

 

Date of Argument: 13.05.2019.
Date of Judgment : 27.05.2019.

IU Dp GCG ME NOT

 

1. The prosecution case as per FIR (Ext 5) dated
17.11.2017 is that on the pretext of marrying the informant's daughter,
aged 13 years on 3.5.2017 at around 7 PM the accused Saiful Islam
called her under bamboo grove and committed rape on her. It is alleged

that not finding his daughter at the evening for some time, searched her

 

and the informant's wife saw the accused committing rape on her

daughter under the bamboo grove and raised hue and cry and the
Contd..
neighbours came and caught hold of the accused Saiful Islam. There was
a ‘mel’ in this regard and the accused promised in writing to marry his
daughter in proper time on the victim attaining the age of majority. It is
alleged that recently the accused married another girl and on 1.11.2017
the informant alongwith some villagers went to the house of the accused
Saiful Islam and remind him about the agreement due to which the
accused Saiful Islam and Sah Alom Sheikh rebuked them in obscene

language and threatened to kill his daughter.

a On receipt of the FIR, Incharge Bidyapur Outpost
made G.D entry being no. 261 dated 17.11.2017 and forwarded the same
to O/C Bongaigaon police station for registering a case and himself took
up the case for investigation. On receipt of the FIR, O.C Bongaigaon
police station registered the case vide Bongaigaon police station Case No.
855/2017 under section 294/506/34 IPC read with section 4 of POCSO
Act.

 

- a During course of investigation, the Investigating
Officer visited the place of occurrence, examined the witnesses including
the victim, sent the victim for medical examination, seized the school
certificate and birth certificate of the victim, having found materials,
submitted charge sheet against the accused Saiful Islam U/S 294/506/34
IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act and U/S 294/506/34 IPC under
the accused Sah Alom Sheikh.

(S
ad : a 4, On appearance of the accused persons, the copies of
ai 408 the statements of the witnesses and relevant documents were furnished as
eniet 3 gm °
on™ prescribed U/S 207 Cr. B.C. Then hearing the learned advocate of both

sides and on perusal of materials on record, charge against the accused

Contd..
was framed under section 294/506/34 IPC read with section 4 of POCSO
Act against the accused Saiful Islam and U/S 294/506/34 IPC against the

accused Sah Alom Sheickh. The charges were read over and explained to

the accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed for

trial.

 

Points for determination:-
(i) Whether the accused Saiful Islam on 3.5.2017 at

around 7.00 P.M at Bidyapur under Bongaigaon P.S
committed penetrative sexual assault to 13 old victim
girl and thereby committed an offence punishable
U/S 4 of POCSO Act?

(ii) Whether accused persons on 01.11.2017 at
Bidyapur under Bongaigaon P.S in furtherance of:
common intention abused Ajmot and others in public
place using obscene words causing annoyance to
others and thereby committed an offence punishable
U/S 294/34 IPC ?

(iii) Whether accused persons on 01.11.2017 at
Bidyapur under Bongaigaon P.S in furtherance of
common intention committed criminal intimidation
by threatening Ajmot Ali and his daughter victim
with injury to their person and thereby committed an

offence punishable U/S 506/34 IPC ?

To bring home the charge against the accused,

prosecution has examined altogether eleven witnesses in support of its

case. The accused persons were examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C in which, they

denied all the allegation. The case of the defence being that of total

Contd..
denial, no evidence was, however, adduced by the defence.

Pe Heard argument of learned counsel of both sides and

also have gone through the evidences on record.

8. The learned Public Prosecutor Mrs Rita Choudhury
for the State in course of argument has submitted that the solitary

evidence of the victim child is enough to prove the prosecution case.

9. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for
the accused has submitted that long delay in filing the case without
explanation coupled with contradiction in the evidence of the PWs and

doubtful birth certificate, the prosecution has failed to prove its case.

PROSECUTION EVIDENCE

10. In order to appreciate the arguments advanced on

 

behalf of both sides, it is considered just to outline a sketch of the

evidence on record.

11. PW 1, the victim deposed that the incident took place
about one year ago and on that day in the evening at 7 P.M she went to
her aunty's house and the accused Saiful, her cousin, caught hold of her
and dragged her under the bamboo grove, gagged her mouth undressed
her cloth and raped her for five minutes. At that time her mother not
finding her at home, searched her and found her and the accused Saiful
together and on seeing her, the accused fled away. Neighbours held
‘bichar' where the accused remained present and promised to marry her
on attaining her majority and in this respect an agreement was executed.
But after eight months accused Saiful got married to a mother of 3

Contd..
 

 

children and failed to abide by the terms and condition of the agreement
filed the ejahar. The victim states that the she was 13 years at the time of
the incident and her date of birth is 10.11.20103. Police got her
medically examined and her statement under section 164 Cr.P.C was
recorded in the Court. Ext 1 is her statement.

During cross she stated that there was love affairs
between her and the accused for 6/7 months and the family members of
the accused did not accept it, but the accused intended to marry her. On
the day of the incident there was talk between her and the accused then
her mother had beaten her and called the villager head. The accused and
his family members were present. The accused expressed his desire to
marry her and in this regard an agreement between the parties was
executed wherein it is mentioned that if the marriage is not held then Rs.
3,00,000.00 will have to be paid to the aggrieved party. She denied the
suggestion that she did not state before police that on the day of the
incident she did not go to her aunty's house, the accused did not catch
hold of her hand, gagged her mouth, undressed her and raped her for five
minutes. She denied the suggestion that at the time of the incident she

was above 18 years and deposed falsely.

tds PW 2 (Robiya Bibi) is the mother of the victim
deposed that on the day of incident at around 6/7 P.M not finding her
victim daughter, her younger daughter told her that the victim went to her
aunty's house. She went there and saw the accused and her victim
daughter were talking in a low voice in standing position near a bamboo
groove and seeing her the accused Saiful fled away. Then she asked her
daughter why she has come there, her daughter told that the accused
Saiful caught hold of her hand, dragged her there and raped her. She
reported the incident to her father and sister and on the next day there was

Contd..
 

 

a 'bichar' in the village and accused Saiful admitted his guilt and agreed to
marry the victim on attaining her majority and an agreement was
executed in that regard in the Court. But the accused after eight months
married a mother of three children, then again 'bichar' was held but the
father of the accused refused to accept the 'bichar' for which the FIR was
filed. Police seized birth certificate and school certificate of her daughter.

During cross she stated that she is mother of five
children. She denied the suggestion that she did not state before police
that she saw the victim under bamboo grove and on being asked the
victim told her that the accused caught hold of her hand, dragged her and
raped her forcefully. She denied the suggestion that the accused Saiful did
not admit his guilt. She denied the suggestion that the victim was above
18 years at the time of incident and deposed falsely that the victim was 14
years old. She also denied that false allegations has been made against

the accused to get Rs.3 lakhs.

13. PW 3 (Asmot Ali), the informant deposed that about
one year ago in the evening at 7 P.M his victim daughter after dinner went
out but not coming back her wife and his sister in law went to search her
victim daughter and found the accused Saiful committing rape on the
victim under the bamboo grove of Sanu Sheikh and seeing her the
accused fled away. His wife rebuked the victim daughter and had beaten
her and the victim told that when she was proceeding towards her aunty's
house, the accused Saiful by dragging took her under the bamboo grove
and raped her. He reported the incident to Sanu Sheikh, his father-in-law
and the village head and asked the accused to come but neither the
accused nor his father came. He deposed that regarding the incident a
‘mel’ was held on next day wherein the accused Saiful admitted his guilt,
promised to marry the victim on her attaining the age of majority and in

Contd..
this respect an agreement was executed between the parties and in terms
of agreement if any party denies to marry, the party will have to pay Rs.
3,00,000.00 to the aggrieved party. He deposed that the accused married
a mother of three children and there was a 'mel' in this regard and the
accused was asked to pay Rs. 1,30,000.00 but he refused. He filed the
ejahar. The victim was medically examined and her statement was got
recorded in the Court and police seized birth certificate and school
certificate of his daughter. Ext 2 is the said agreement.

During cross he stated that the accused told that he
will marry the victim. He denied the suggestion that he did not tell before
police that after taking dinner at 7.30 P.M her daughter came out but did
not return back, then her mother and his sister-in-law went to search her
and during search found the accused Saiful committing rape on the victim
under the bamboo grove of Sanu Sheik and seeing his wife the accused
fled away from there. He denied the suggestion that he did not state
before police that the accused promise to marry the victim. He denied the
suggestion that the victim had love affairs with the accused, that he did

not rape her and that he deposed falsely.

14. PW 4 ( Md Sanu Seikh) deposed that on 3.5.2017 at
around 7 P.M the informant with his wife and the victim came to his
house and reported that the accused committed rape on the victim under
his bamboo grove. He deposed that on being asked the accused, the
accused promised to marry the victim on attaining her majority and there
was a ‘bichar' in regard to the incident on the next day and in the 'bichar'
the accused admitted his guilt and an agreement was executed between
the parties in the Court. But after 5/6 months the accused was caught
having illicit relation with Hajera Biwi, a married woman, for which the
accused was imposed fine of Rs. 80,000.00 and Hajera Biwi was handed

Contd..
 

over to the accused. Again 'bichar' was held where the accused was asked
to pay Rs 1,60,000.00 out of Rs.3,00,000 as per the agreement but the
father of the accused refused to pay the money for which 'marpit' took
place. Hence, FIR was lodged. He further deposed that at the time of
incident the victim girl was below 14 years.

During cross he stated that the accused and the
victim are his grand son and grand daughter and he did not remember
their date of birth. He denied the suggestion that there was love affairs
between the accused and the victim. He stated that before people Saiful
told that he loves the victim girl and will marry her. He heard that the
accused married the woman. He denied the suggestion that the accused
did not admit his guilt before the public and he did no tell the incident to
the police. He denied the suggestion that he deposed falsely against the

accused persons.

15. PW 5 (Md Haidar Ali), gaonbura deposed that in the
month of May, 2017 on the day of incident at around 9.00 P.M the
informant, his wife and the victim informed him that the accused
committed rape on the victim and requested him to go to the Police
Station and accordingly they went to the Police Station and returned back
as the incident occurred between the relatives. He deposed that he
alongwith Nurul Sheikh went to the house of the accused and the accused
admitted his guilt and promised to marry the victim. He deposed that as
the victim did not attain the age of majority hence 'bichar' was held on the
next day and it was decided to execute an agreement between the parties
and as per agreement, if any party denies to marry he or she would have
to pay Rs. 3,00,000.00 to the aggrieved party. He deposed that after 6
months the accused married a married woman for which another ‘bichar'
was held in the village and the informant filed the case.

Contd..
 

po

 

3

During cross he denied the suggestion that he did not
state the fact before Police which he has deposed in the Court. He denied
the suggestion that the accused did not rape the victim; that the accused
admitted his guilt and on the very night he went to the Police Station and
after returning from Police station went to the house of the accused. He
stated that he stated the age of the victim girl as 14 years, as told to him
by her parents. He stated that in this next vichar the accused was asked to
pay Rs.1,30,000 to the victim girl but accused refused to pay. He denied
the suggestion that he deposed falsely.

16. PW 6 (Ayub Ali), the uncle of the informant,
deposed that he heard that the accused had love affair with the victim and
that a 'bichar' was held for allegation of committing rape to the victim,
aged 14 years by the accused. He heard that there was an agreement

between the accused and the victim in regard to marriage on condition

' that the accused would marry the victim on her attaining the age of

majority but the accused married a woman by violating the terms of the
agreement. He stated that Police seized the school certificate i.e. M.Ext 2
and birth certificate i.e. M.Ext 1 of the victim vide seizure list Ext 3 and
Ext-3(1) is his signature.

During cross he deposed that he did not see the
married wife of the accused. He denied the fact that he did not state
before Police that the victim was 14 years old. He denied the suggestion
that he did not hear that the accused raped the victim and at the time

recording of the statement of the victim he was present

17. PW 7 (Jahirul Islam) deposed that he knows the
accused persons and the victim and the incident took place about 6
months ago and in connection with the incident a ‘bichar' was held
regarding illicit relation between the accused and the victim and an

Contd..
 

 

10

agreement was executed between the parties in Court. Again 'bichar' was
held regarding payment of Rs. 3,00,00.00 to the victim and it was settled
to pay Rs. 1,60,000.00 but on the request of Sha Alom the president
asked to pay Rs. 1,30,000.00 but the father of the accused did not pay the
money.

During cross he denied the suggestion that he did not
state before Police that on the request of Sha Alom the president asked to
pay Rs. 1,30,000.00 instead of Rs. 1,60,000.00

18. PW 8 (Dr. Priyanka Roy), the Medical Officer,
examined the victim on 28.11.2017 at around 1.12. P.M and found the
hymen intact, admits one finger and as per x-ray report her age is above
17 years and below 20 years. No injury mark seen over any body parts.
Ext 4 is the medical report.

During cross she stated that the report was prepared

on the basis of medico legal register.

19. PW 9 ( Tamser Ali Ahmed), deposed that about six
months ago Police from Bidyapur Out post came to his school and asked
whether the victim was reading in his school and showed her school
certificate and on verifying the certificate he confirmed that the victim
was reading in class VI in his school and her date of birth is 10.11.2003.
M.Ext 1 is the said school certificate.

During cross he stated that police did not seize any
register from him and they put the date of birth on the basis of the L.P.

school certificate in the admission register.

20. PW 10 (Moniruddin Seikh), deposed that he heard
that the accused committed rape to the daughter of the informant and in
Contd..
 

11

connection with the incident 'bichar' was held and the last 'bichar' was
presided by him.

During cross he stated that he heard that the accused
married another woman. He denied the fact that the accused did not rape

the victim.

21. PW 11 (Ajoy Kumar Saha), the Investigating Officer
deposed that on 17.11.2017 he received an ejahar (Ext 5) from the
informant alleging that on 3.5.2017 the accused Saiful Islam committed
rape to the victim, aged 13 years, he took up the investigation, visited the
place of occurrence, prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence
(Ext 6), recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for
medical examination, seized the school certificate (M.Ext 2) and birth
certificate (M.Ext 1) of the victim ( Ext 3), got recorded the statement of
the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C and having found sufficient materials against
the accused Saiful Islam submitted charge sheet (Ext 7) U/S 294/506/34
IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act and also submitted charge sheet
against the accused Sah Alom Sheikh U/S 294/506/34 IPC.

During cross he stated that the victim did not state
before him that the accused dragged her, gagged her mouth, undressed
her and raped her for five minutes. He stated that in connection with the
incident there was quarrel between the parties and Bongaigaon PS.
835/2017 and 836/2017 were filed and he registered these two case on
11.11.2017. He denied the fact of knowing the age of the victim to be
above 17 years and less than 20 years as per medical report, he submitted

the charge sheet under POCSO Act.

ea. The defence plea in their statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C is
of total denial. The accused Sah Alom stated that he was in love with the
Contd..
Al
.
SE
oor geo"
Be

 

12
victim girl for which he entered into an agreement but denied of raping

her or marrying any other woman.

Discussion, decision and reasons there of:-

23. The allegation is of accused Safiul Islam committing
rape on the informant’s (PW 3) daughter age about 13 years on 03-05-
2017 under a bamboo groove and on being caught, a bichar was held,
wherein an agreement was reached between the parties that the accused
Saiful Islam will marry the victim girl on her attaining the age of majority
and in violation of the condition by any of the party, the party violating
the agreement will pay an amount of Rs.3,00,000/- to the aggrieved party.
Subsequently, the accused married another girl and a bichar was held,
wherein the accused was asked to pay Rs.1,30,000/- to the victim girl, but

did not make a payment. Hence, this case.

24. The alleged incident is of 03-05-2017 and the FIR is
lodged after six months on 17-11-2017 i.e. after more than six months.
Had the accused made the payment, there would have been no any such

case.

20. Before proceeding further it is to be mentioned the
relationship between the parties. The mother of the accused Saiful Islam
is the sister of the mother of the victim girl. Prosecution witnesses are as
follows :-

PW 1 — victim

PW2 — mother of the victim

PW3 -— informant and father of the victim

PW4 - grandfather of both victim and accused

PW5 — Gaonbura

Contd..
 

13

PW6 - relative of PW3

PW7 — Member of bichar

PW8 -— Doctor

PW9 — Head Master of Bidyapur High School
PW10 — President of the bichar

PWi1-I1.0

26. The defence plea of accused Saiful Islam is that he
was in love with the victim girl for which he entered into an agreement

but he denied committing rape on her.

27. PW 1, the victim deposed that on that day in the
evening her cousin Saiful Islam caught hold of her hand from her aunt’s
house, dragged her under the bamboo groove, gagged her mouth,
undressed her cloth and raped her for 5 minutes. At that time her mother
arrived there and the accused fled away. Her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C is
that on that evening at around 7:00 PM she finished her cooking and had
gone to the tube well to bring water. At that time her cousin accused
Saiful held her mouth, pulled her by her hand to the nearby jungle, where
the accused pulled out her churidar and her underwear garments. The
accused also opened his pant by holding her mouth with his hands and

forcefully did sexual intercourse with her.

28. Let us pause here and visualise the scenario. The
accused caught the mouth of PW 1 with his hand and at the same time
pulled her to nearby jungle, held her mouth with his hand, he opened her
cloth and his cloth also and raped her. The first question that comes to
mind is, is it simply possible to restrain the girl, hold her mouth, undress
her himself and at that same time rape her. Did she not got any moment

Contd..
 

 

14

release her mouth and shout. The situation as explained by her do
provide her an opportunity but she did not shout. That means she was a
consenting party to the sexual act.

Her evidence before the Court is different because she deposed
that she was taken from her aunt’s house to the nearby bamboo groove
and at that time her mother arrived there. She did not make any hue and
cry but her mother reached there searching her. Her mother PW 2
deposed that not finding her daughter she went in search of her and saw
her standing and talking in low voice with the accused Saiful Islam and

seeing her the accused fled away from there.

29. PW1 says that while the accused was committing
rape, her mother arrived there and the accused fled away from there. But
her mother found her standing and talking in low voice with the accused
and seeing her the accused fled away. Being so her mother has not
supported her version.

On being caught a bichar was held, where it was
agreed that the accused Saiful Islam will marry her on her attaining
majority but the accused married another woman for which there was
again a bichar and in that bichar the accused was asked to make payment
of Rs.1,30,000/- but on being not paid the case has been filed. So the

grievance revolves around monetary compensation.

30. From the evidence and record it is clear that there
was a love affair between the victim and the accused Saiful and victim
was with the accused under the bamboo groove on her own consent. She
deposed that Saiful committed sexual intercourse with her by inserting his
private part on her private part, as stated in her evidence u/s 164 Cr.P.C
and in deposition as PW 1 she has simply stated of being raped.

Contd..
—_—_— LV .
cial Todeees
Spe gaods }

pong!

 

iS

Surprisingly the medical evidence is otherwise as because the finding of
Doctor (PW8) is that during examination she found the hymen of PW 1 to
be intact. Had there have been penetrative sexual intercourse the hymen

would have been raptured.

at. The medical evidence also indicates that the victim
was not a minor aged about 14 years at the time of incident.

PW 8 deposed that during medical examination and
from radiological report the victim’s age was assessed to be above 17
years and below 20 years. Ext-4 is the medical report and the

radiological report is enclosed with it.

32. Prosecution has produced the birth certificate and the
school certificate of the victim girl, which was seized vide Ext-3 (seizure
list) and as per these certificates the date of birth of the victim girl is
shown to be 10-11-2003. If we go by this date of birth, the age of victim
girl would be 13 years, 5 months and 23 days as on 03-05-2017.

33. PW 9 is the Head Master of Bidyapur, High School,
where the victim studied. The evidence of PW 9 is that the Police Officer
came to inquire as to whether the school certificate was in fact issued by
the him or not and he verified from the record to be correct. He has
recorded the said date of birth on the basis of date of birth mentioned in
the LP School certificate.

Defence counsel questioned the validity of the birth
certificate, which was issued by Registrar of Birth and Death, Chapor,
PHC in the District of Dhubri whereas she was born at Bidyapur. Ld.
defence counsel submitted that the birth certificate do not reflect the exact
date of birth as because it was subsequently prepared at Dhubri instead of

Contd..
16

the same being obtained from the Registrar of Birth and Death,
Bongaigaon. Ld. defence counsel also submitted that the age mentioned
in the School certificate is not correct as because the date of birth as
mentioned in the school certificate issued by the Bidyapur High School
was based on date of birth mentioned in the LP School certificate. No
such birth certificate was submitted before the LP School as because in
the cross examination PW 3 (father of the victim girl) stated that he do
not know about the date of birth of his daughter and that he has not taken
his daughter for her admission in the LP School. His daughter herself
went to the school with her friend and took the admission and studied

there.

34. PW 2 (mother of the victim girl) also do not

remember the date of birth of any of her children. She also did not went

       

to the school for admission of her daughter and her daughter herself went

cTé SEs
Ks es to the school and took admission. So the very basis of recording the date
f Ge e \ ae -
= tier Ve] of birth in the school certificate has appeared doubtful and being so the

age as per medical examination report seems to be the probable age of the
victim girl. The age as per medical report is that she was above 17 years
and below 20 years, while she was examined on 20-11-2017 i.e. about six

months of the alleged date of incident 03-05-2017.

35. The version of PW 1 is also doubtful because, as
stated above and that while giving her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C she stated
that her accused cousin Saiful proposed her of love, which she refused
but reluctantly out of fear of threat by the accused she relented to the
proposal. Whereas, in her cross examination she stated that she was in
love with the accused since 6 / 7 months prior to the incident but there
relation was not accepted by the family members of Saiful. Saiful wanted

Contd..

 
 

17

to marry her and on that evening on being caught with Saiful, she was
beaten up by her mother and thereafter the matter was placed before the
village people. In the bichar the accused Saiful told that he will marry
her and for that he entered into the agreement.

Had the accused not married another woman or paid
money to the victim no such case would have been registered. The
accused Saiful was subsequently caught having illicit relationship with a
married woman named Hajira Bibi for which there was a bichar and the
accused Saiful was asked to keep Hajira Bibi as his wife. This led to
another bichar for payment of compensation to the victim, as agreed upon
earlier and for failure to pay the modified amount of Rs.1,40,000/- the
father of the victim lodged the FIR against the accused. Accused Sah
Alom Sk. is the father of the accused Saiful Islam and from the evidence
on record the only offence lodged against him is refusal to make the
payment as decided in the bichar. The evidence of PW 4 speaks of marpit
between the parties on the refusal of Shah Alom to pay the money.
Moreso, the agreement (Ext-2) was between accused Saiful Islam and
Asmat Ai (PW3) and accused Shah Alom has nothing to do with it. There
is no evidence of either of the accused using any obscene works in public
causing annoyance to the victim or her parents. Saiful Islam is a major

person aged about 29 years as seen from Ext-2.

36. Defence Counsel in his argument in respect to the
date of birth of the victim girl mentioned in the School certificate (Ext
-2 ) referred to the judgment of High Court of Sikkim in Criminal Appeal
No. 35 of 2017 wherein the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in
the case of Madanmohan Singh and others Vs. Rajnikant and another
was referred with respect to the distinction between the admissibility of a
document and its probative value. The Hon’ble Supreme court has hold

Contd..
18

that a document may be admissible but as to whether the entry contained
there in has any probative value may still be required to be examined in
the facts and circumstances of a particular case. In that judgment
Hon’ble Supreme Court referred to other judgments of the Hon’ble
Supreme Court wherein it has been held that even if the entry was made
in an official record by the official concern in the discharge of his official
duty, it may have weighed but still may require corroboration by the
person on whose information the entry has been made and as to whether
the entry so made has been exhibited and proved. The standard of proof
required herein is the same as in other civil and criminal cases. Another
judgment with respect to the date of birth referred by the defence counsel
is the case of Biradmal Singhvi Vs. Anand Purohit reported in 1988 (supp
1) SCC 604 where Hon’ble Supreme Court has held that an entry relating

to date of birth in the School Register is admissible under section 35 of

ARICT & Se ;
(SEER \ the Act (Representation of the Peoples’ Act 1951). The entry regarding
ae

é
ku f
i |
ee |

the age in a School register is of not much evidentary value to prove the

4 #8
| fy

Ss rncuncnn et

\%\ Je: age of a person in the absence of the material on which the age was

Yo oe recorded.
a7. To the evidentary value of Ext-1 the defence counsel
has relied upon the judgment of the Hon’ble Gauhati High Court in
Criminal Appeal no. 04 (AP 2008) (Sanjeeb Baidya Vs. Arunachal
Pradesh) wherein the birth certificate was not proved by the prosecution.
This certificate should have been proved by the officer concerned who
issued the said certificate. Further, even if the issuing officer has been
produced as a witness, he must also produce the relevant register date
( record mentioned of his office and the same should be proved and
ay)

exhibited before the trial Court. In the instant case prosecution has failed

4
yl ‘ - to prove the birth certificate (Ext-1). Moreso, the authenticity of the said
*
gpect®! pent De | Contd..
Bo! garee?
 

 

19

certificate has been raised by the defence counsel as because the victim
girl was born at Bidyapur in the District of Bongaigaon where as the said

birth certificate was issued by the authority from the District of Dhubri.

38. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Criminal Appeal
no.2066-67 of 2009 in the case of Narender Vs State (NCT of Delhi)
reported in (2012) 7 SCC 171, in para 16 discussed about the settled legal
proposition that if the statement of the prosecutrix inspires confidence
and is accepted by the Court as such, conviction can be based only on the
solitary evidence of the prosecutrix no corroboration would be required
unless there are compelling reason which necessitate the Court for
corroboration of her statement. However, if the Court finds it difficult to
accept the version of the prosecutrix on its face value, it may search for
evidence, direct or substantial, which may lends assurance to her

testimony

39. In para 17 of the judgment in theccase of Narender

Kumar (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that -

“ even in a case of rape, the onus is always on the
prosecution to prove, affirmatively each ingredient of the offence it seeks
to establish and such onus never shifts. It is no part of the duty of the
defense to explain as to how and why in a rape case the victim and other
witness have falsely implicated the accused. Prosecution case has to stand
on its own legs and cannot take support from the weakness of the case of
defense. However great the suspicion against the accused and however
strong the moral belief and conviction of the court, unless the offence of
the accused is established beyond reasonable doubt on the basis of legal
evidence and material on the record, he cannot be convicted for an
offence. There is an initial presumption of innocence of the accused and

Contd..
 

20

the prosecution has to bring home the offence against the accused by
reliable evidence. The accused is entitled to the benefit of every
reasonable doubt. (Vide: Tukaram & Anr. v. The State of Maharashtra,
AIR 1979 SC 185; and Uday v. State of Karnataka, AIR 2003 SC
1639)."

40. One of the cardinal principle which is always be kept
in view in the system of administration of justice in criminal cases is that
a person arraigned as an accused is presumed to be innocent unless that
presumption is rebutted by the prosecution by production of evidence as
may show him to be guilty of the offence with which he is charged. The
burden to prove the guilt of the accused is upon prosecution and unless it
relieves itself of that burden, the Court cannot record a finding of the guilt
of the accused. There are certain cases in which statutory presumption
arise regarding guilt of the accused, but the burden even in those cases is
upon prosecution to prove the existence of facts which have to be present
before the presumption can be drawn. The onus even in such cases upon
the accused is not as heavy as is normally upon the prosecution to prove
the guilt of the accused. Another golden thread which runs through the
wave of the administration of justice in criminal case is that if two views
are possible on the evidence adduced in the case, one pointing to the guilt
of the accused and the other to the innocence, the view which is
favourable to the accused should be adopted. Reference in this regard is
made to the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Shivaji
Shaheb Rao Bobade and another Vs State of Maharashtra reported in
(1973) 2 SCC 793.

41. The Courts while trying an accused on the charge of
rape, must deal with the case with utmost sensitivity, examining the
Contd..
 

ponaae*

 

21

broader probabilities of a case and not get swayed by minor
contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the evidence of witnesses

which are not of a substantial character.

42. Prosecution has to prove its case beyond reasonable
doubt and cannot take support from the weakness of the case of defense.
There must be proper legal evidence and material on record to record the
conviction of the accused. Conviction can be based on sole testimony of
the prosecutrix provided it lends assurance of her testimony. However, in
case the court has reason not to accept the version of prosecutrix on its
face value, it may look for corroboration. In case the evidence is read in
its totality and the story projected by the prosecutrix is found to be

improbable, the prosecutrix case becomes liable to be rejected.

43. It is felt pertinent to refer to the judgment of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Raju Vs State of M.P reported in
(2008) 15 SCC 133 and para 8 of the said judgment are quoted below :

"The aforesaid judgments lay down the basic
principle that ordinarily the evidence of a prosecutrix should not be
suspected and should be believed, more so as her statement has to be
evaluated on a par with that of an injured witness and if the evidence is
reliable, no corroboration is necessary. Undoubtedly, the aforesaid
observations must carry the greatest weight and we respectfully agree
with them, but at the same time they cannot be universally and
mechanically applied to the facts of every case of sexual assault which

comes before the court.

It cannot be lost sight of that rape causes the greatest
distress and humiliation to the victim but at the same time a false
allegation of rape can cause equal distress, humiliation and damage to the

Contd..
 

i

accused as well. The accused must also be protected against the
possibility of false implication, particularly where a large number of
accused are involved. It must, further, be borne in mind that the broad
principle is that an injured witness was present at the time when the
incident happened and that ordinarily such a witness would not tell a lie
as to the actual assailants, but there is no presumption or any basis for
assuming that the statement of such a witness is always correct or without

any embellishment or exaggeration."

44. The evidence as discussed above, appears to be
doubtful going by the story as depicted by the prosecutrix and
contradictions in the evidence of other PWs. The evidence as such

bristles with contradictions and improbabilities.

45. For the reasons aforesaid, the offence of rape does
not stand proved and as such the prosecution charge U/S 294/506/34 IPC
read with section 4 of POCSO Act fails. Hence, the accused Saiful Islam,
charged with section 294/506/34 IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act and
accused Sah Alom Seikh charged with section 294/506/34 IPC are
acquitted of the said charge and set at liberty forthwith.

46. Given under my hand and the seal of this Caurt on this 27"
day of May, 2019. ia
(Binod Kr a

pce J Uaoe J

BRE Onggigaoa, }

Dictatedand corrected by me,

   

y
(Binod Chetri),

Special Ju Goa,
Bohlen pool
 

23

APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 —- Victim.

PW 2 —- Robiya Bibi.

PW 3 -Asmot Ali.

PW 4-Md Somu Sheikh.
PW 5 — Md Haidar Ali.
PW 6 — Ayub Alli.

PW 7 — Jahirul Islam.

PW 8 — Dr Priyanka Roy.
PW 9 —Tamser Ali Ahmed.
PW 10 -Moniruddin Sheikh.
PW 11- Ajoy Kr Saha, I.0.

Defence Witness:
Nil.

Documents Exhibited by Prosecution:

Ext-1 Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC.
Ext-2

Ext 3- Seizure list.

Ext 4 Medical report.

Ext-5-Ejahar.

Ext-6-Sketch map of the place of occurrence.
Ext-7-Charge sheet.

Defence Exhibit:

Nil

Material Exhibit

M.Ext 1- School certificate
M.Ext 2- Birth certificate.

 

9

(Binod Kr Chetri a
Session
seen dues
