Page 1 of 5
Spl. POCSO Case No. 05/2018
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI

SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl. POCSO Case No. 05/2018
u/s Sec. 8 of POCSO Act, 2012

 

 

®

State of Assam
-ys-
Sri Sunil Majhi
beeen Accused person

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,

Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Advocates Appeared:-
For the prosecution: Mr. J. Bardoloi, learned Addl. P.P

For the defence : Mr. P.P. Borah, learned Advocate.

Date of recording Evidence: 16.08.2018, 26.09.2018, 14.12.2018, 25.01.2019.

 

Date of Argument : 08.02.2019.
Date of Judgment : 18.02.2019.
JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 03.03.2018 the informant, Sri Prem Lal Majhi lodged
an FIR with the I/C Borgang Police Out Post under Behali PS stating inter alia that on the
previous day at about 6.30 PM, taking advantage of absence of the other inmates of the
house, the accused Sunil Majhi tried to commit rape on his 15 year old niece (name is
withheld) in his house. When the occurrence was noticed by one Bikash Soreng, he
rescued the girl. The informant stated that he could learn about the incident in the next

day morning.
AZ AM 2. Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After
(&\ yrs investigation, the police submitted charge-sheet against the accused u/s 8 of POCSO Act.
a
epee an. The accused in due course appeared before this Court to face trial. The copies of the
a on
pd

3

B99 relevant documents were furnished to him. As the accused faced trial from custody and

expressed his inability to engage a counsel of his choice to defend him, the learned
defence counsel was engaged from the panel of the legal aid counsel to defend the
accused at the expense of the State. After hearing both the sides on the point of charge,

taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173 CrPC, as this Court found grounds for
Page 2 of 5
Spl. POCSO Casé No. 05/2018
presuming that the accused had committed an offence u/s 8 of POCSO Act, 2012, the

charge was accordingly framed against him, which on being read over and explained, the
accused pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial, the prosecution examined ten witnesses in all. The accused was thereafter
examined u/s 313 CrPC. His plea was total denial. He refused to adduced any evidence on
his behalf. The case was thereafter argued by both the sides.

Points for determination
Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed sexual assault on
the said victim, who is a child below the age of 18 years?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
5. PW 1 is Sri Bikash Soreng, who according to Ext. 1-FIR had witnessed the occurrence. He
stated that on 02.03.2018 at about 6.30 PM he came to the house of the informant Prem
Lal Majhi. According to him, the grandmother of the house, a couple of children, and the
victim were present in the house at that relevant time. When he asked the grandmother
she could not say whereabouts of the victim. The small boy Narayan then came and told
him that the accused Sunil has taken the victim towards the straw heap- "Meji" by gagging
her mouth. When he asked them, they informed him that the accused has threatened him
‘land therefore they have not gone for rescue of the victim. He thereafter went towards the
‘ vo straw "Meji" in search of the girl and found the accused there trampling his feet on the legs
of the victim by laying her down. He saw the accused bending over the girl. He then pulled

 

up the accused holding by his neck but the accused then threatened him by saying that he
would see him. He then forcibly sent the accused from that place. The accused then asked
for a bottle of whisky and Narayan brought him a half filled bottle. The accused was later
handed over to police at mid night. In his cross, he stated that Narayan is about 11-12
years of age. He denied to the suggestion that he did not state before police during
investigation the case that the accused had taken the victim by gagging her mouth

towards the "Meji" or that the accused had threatened the children for which they did not

WE ay : = “a the victim's rescue sii that he - isa the oe ea ous on ue me of the

(x) “s ys? victim and he had pulled him up by holding his neck. He in his cross-examination further

er stated that the clothes worn by the accused and the victim were perfectly normal at that
oe relevant time.

oe 6. As we turn to the evidence of the Investigating Officer, PW 9 SI, Raju Duwarah, we find

him contradicting PW 1 and stating that PW 1 did not state before him that the accused
took the victim by gagging her mouth and that the accused had threatened Narayan and
that PW 1 had witnessed the incident in the light of torch and thereafter pulled up the

y .

“s
 

Page 3 of 5

Spl. POCSO Case No. 05/2018
accused by holding his neck. The contradiction of PW1 and PW9 therefore raises a doubt

on the evidence of PW1 as to whether he has developed from what he had’ earlier stated
before the Investigating Officer during investigation of the case.

PW 3 is the alleged victim. She stated that on the said day of occurrence when she was
drawing water from the well in their house, the accused pulled her to the "Meji" and kissed
her. At that relevant time PW 1 Bikash Soreng came and assaulted the accused. PW 1 then
informed the matter to the police over phone. She proved her statement recorded u/s 164
CrPC as Ext. 2. She was medically examined, she stated. As we scrutinize the evidence of
PW 3 with the evidence of PW 1, we do not find them cohesive. PW 3 did not utter any
word with regard to the accused taking her towards the "Meji" by gagging her mouth.
There is no evidence in her testimony that shows that the accused trampled over legs by
laying her down and he bent over her. She on the other hand found to have stated that the
accused had kissed her after he pulled her towards the "Meji". In her cross-examination
she stated that the accused did not disrobe her and he did not touch in any inappropriate
part of her body. She contradicted her evidence and stated that during investigation of the

case, she had stated before police that she was preparing meal in her house when the

‘=/ accused came and not that she was drawing water from the well. She therefore has

faltered in her own evidence.

_ As we turn to the evidence of the Medical Officer- PW10 Dr. Meena Borah Biswasi, we find

that the doctor examining her did not find any recent sign of sexual intercourse on her .
She also did not find any mark of injury on the body of the victim or on her private part.
She further stated that the victim is radiologically found to be 18 years of age. She proved
her Medico-Legal Report as Ext. 7. The evidence of PW10 therefore shows that there was
no mark of any injury on the body of the victim and the victim was radiologically 18 years
old. The Ext. 4- the Transfer Certificate of the victim as was seized from the Head Master
of the School, where the victim studied on the other hand shows her date of birth as
12.11.2003. Both the Ext. 7 and Ext. 4 as relied by the prosecution are therefore found to
be contradictory. There is no other reliable evidence placed to show that the victim was a
child below the age of 18 years.

PW 2 is the informant, Prem Lal Majhi, who proved the FIR as Ext. 1. He was not a witness
of the said occurrence. It is revealed from the Ext. 1 that he was not present in his house
at the relevant time and that he had lodged the FIR in the next morning.

. PW4 Beloni Gowala, PW5 Smti Rupeswari Majhi and PW 7, Ajit Kurmi have no knowledge

about the said occurrence. PW6 Ajoy Munda came to the place of occurrence after being
informed by the PW1. He found the victim trembling, who told him that the accused had
taken her by gagging her mouth and had done 'beya kam’ (bad work) on her. He did not
see any mark of injury on her body. Later he apprehended the accused and kept him tied
1

 

—

Page 4 of 5

Spl. POCSO Case No. 05/2018
and later handed him over to police. He is not a witness to the said occurrence. PW 8

Stephen Barla did not witness the said occurrence. He too had heard about the incident
from PW 1.

. From the evidence of the prosecution witnesses as discussed above, we find that PW 1

Bikash Soreng and the PW3- the victim are the vital witnesses of the case. But their
evidence as noticed above are found to be suffering from contradictions and
incohesiveness which therefore make them unreliable. Further, we notice that the Medical
Officer- PW10 had stated that the victim was 18 years old at that relevant time which
contradicted the Ext.4. From the contradictory evidence that emanated, it cannot be
ascertained that the victim is a child below the age of 18 years. Under such circumstances,
I find that the prosecution has failed to prove its case. As such, I acquit the accused from
the offence charged against him and set him at liberty forthwith. As the accused faced trial
from custody, the Jail Authorities be directed to release the accused immediately, if he is
not required in any other case. The seized certificate be restored on the owner. A copy of
the judgment be forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec.
365 Cr.P.C. The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 18 day of February,

2019.

(b. a

Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.

Addl. Sessions Judge
giswanath Chanali, Sonitpat
Page 5 of 5
Spl. POCSO Case No. 05/2018

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Sri Bikash Soreng

PW2- Sri Prem Lal Majhi

PW3- Victim

PW4- Smti Beloni Gowala

PW5- Smti Rupeswari Majhi

PWe6- Sri Ajoy Munda

PW7- Sri Ajit Kurmi

PW8- Sri Stephen Barla

PW9- S.I. Raju Duworah (I.0.)
PW10- Dr. Mina Borah Biswasi (M.O.)

 

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Ext.1- FIR

Ext.2- Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC

Ext.3- Sketch map

Ext.4- Seizure list

Ext.5- Zimmanama

Ext.6- Chargesheet

Ext.7- Medico-legal Report

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

ant

Addl. Sessions Judae

Biswanath Chanail, Sonipur

None.
