Page 1 of 8

7}

DISTRICT- CHARAIDEO.
IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE: CHARAIDEO: SONARI
Present:- Syed Imdadur Rahman, AJS.

SPECIAL JUDGE

The 18" day of June, 2019.

SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 62 OF 2017

Under Section

10 of the Protection of Children

from Sexual offences Act 2012.

State of Assam
-Versus-
Sri Subodh Kar

a NNIEY @ yee Accused Person.

This case was taken up for final hearing on 04.06.2019 in the presence of

Sri Basanta Gogoi.............. Advocate for prosecution side,

Sri Rajib Buragohain ............0......... Advocate of the accused.
F.I.R was lodged on ssettisse:s §=16.09.2017.

Charge framed on sreriisiti: 27.02.2018.

Argument Heard on stesresses 04.06.2019.

Judgment Delivered on tiie: 18.06.2019.

Syn
5
special Judge
Charaideo, Sonar
Page 2 of 8

JUDGMENT

In this case the accused person is facing
trial under section 10 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

1, In this case FIR was lodged before Sonari P.S. on 16-09-2017 by one Smti.
Moni Karmakar with the allegations that her daughter ‘s’ (name not mentioned) is
11% years old and a primary school student. That, the accused since long time
physically harassed the minor daughter of the informant by touching private parts
etc. That, the minor daughter of the informant was reluctant to go to school for
which when she asked the matter, her minor daughter stated her about the incident

involving the accused.

2. In pursuance to lodging of the FIR, Sonari P.S. case no. 217/17 was
registered and police started investigation. After completion of investigation police
forwarded charge-sheet against the accused u/s 8 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012. On being summoned the accused appeared before
court. The charge u/s 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
2012 was framed against the accused. The charge was read over and explained to
the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Prosecution

examined five witnesses.

3. The accused person was examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C, where he denied the
case of the prosecution. The accused Person examined no witness. I have heard

arguments put forwarded by both sides.

4, Points For Determination in this Case are:-

Ar 1) Whether the accused, a few days prior to lodging of the FIR by taking
Special Judge advantage of his position, committed aggravated sexual assault on the minor
Wot RRS Le aS
araideo. Sona; Gaughter of the informant who is a student of Banphera Govt. Primary School?

i J

 
Page 3 of 8

5. DISCUSSION DECISION AND REASONS FOR THE DECISION :

Before discussing of the evidences on record and before arriving at a
decision, let us now look in to two vital legal aspect connected to this case. Here in
this case the accused is facing trial primarily under the Protection of children from
Sexual Offences Act 2012.

Section 29 of the act is as follows:- Where a Person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
section 3,5,7 and Section 9 of this act, the Special Court shall presume,
that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is proved. Here as per the
procedural law the trial court shall presume the accused guilty of the
offence he is facing trial, unless disproved by him.

Section 4 of the Indian Evidence Act 1872 defines the term “shall
Presume” as follows :- Whenever it is directed by this act that the court
shall presume a fact, it shall regard such fact as proved, unless and until it

is disproved.
Now, behind this background, we have to come to a conclusion in this case,

6. Under above circumstances, now let us discuss evidence on records to the

point for determination.

7. In this case the alleged victim deposed that incident occurred two years ago,
That, accused is her teacher. That, as her teacher/accused used to fond of her for
which other students got angry and teased her. That, accused did no offence. That,
after getting angry she talked to her mother falsely.

I. In cross-examination this PW deposed that accused encouraged her when

Speci fal JUCGe she used to do good in study.
yharaiceo, Sonari
"

CSmanial lristcio
wPCcial Judge

| ® ~~
naraicnan An
naral ACU, WOliG

Page 4 of 8

8, Here I have considered the evidence of the alleged victim and found that
according to her, accused did no offence and as a teacher of her he used to love
her. The evidence of the alleged victim clearifies that, according to her accused did
no offence, I have considered the evidence of the alleged victim and found that on
record concerning evidence of the victim there is nothing in regards to the point for

determination.

9. The PW 1 is the informant/mother of the alleged victim and she in her
evidence deposed that the present age of her daughter is 13 years. In the year
2017 her daughter was reading at Benphera L.P. School. Her daughter was born in
the year 2005. About 8/9 months back one day, when her daughter showed her
reluctance to go to school, when she asked about the matter she was told that
accused used to misbehave her, touches her breast etc. After knowing about the
incident she went to school along with her husband and two other women. She
informed the matter to other school teacher and staff. Head Teacher asked accused
Subodh to beg pardon if he commits any wrong. Thereafter, she informed the
matter to VDP. A village meeting was organized. That, in the village meeting
accused scolded her daughter as ‘gadhi’. In the meeting classmates of her daughter

gave their statement supporting the allegations of her daughter.

In the cross-examination this PW deposed that she was selected in the
school managing committee of Banphera L.P. School. However, the D.I. of School
has dissolved the said committee as it was illegal. Accused had made complaint
before the D.I. Classroom of Class-III, Class-IV & class-V situated near each other.
That, her daughter used to inform that accused asked her to read sincerely. That, in
the village meeting except Rinki other student of her class denied to support the

allegations of her daughter about the accused.

10, I have considered the evidence of the PW 1/informant and found that the
basis of the evidence of PW 1 is that her daughter reported the matter to her. The

‘evidence of the PW 1 is based on the information given by her daughter. From the
Special Judge

shar

”

Page 5 of 8

cross-examination of the PW 1 it is revealed that the accused used to ask the victim

to read sincerely.

11. The PW 2 in his evidence deposed that on the day of the incident at about
12:00 noon while he was standing in front of his house he saw Smti. Moni Karmakar
was Coming out weeping. That, she came to him and told that accused misbehaved
her daughter by touching her body in the classroom. On this matter a meeting was
organized on the next day. In the meeting the daughter of the informant reported
that accused touched her body. However, other student stated that they have not
noticed any such incident. After discussion the meeting found the accused not
guilty. On being dissatisfied with the decision of the meeting Moni Karmakar filed

this case.

In the cross-examination this PW deposed that in the meeting all 21
students of the class of ‘S’ were asked individually but no one has involved the
accused with the allegations. That, he has seen one SMS came to the mobile of the
accused demanding Rs.2 lakhs from the accused. On the next day of meeting some
posters were hanged near the school. That, on allegations of misbehavior of ‘S’,
Moni Karmakar has complained against brother of Rinki Chaora and a village
meeting was organized. In that meeting allegation was found to be false. That,
Moni Karmakar is having habit of bringing false allegations against other villagers

and they have warned her to resist.

12, Here also the PW 3 was informed about the incident by the mother of the
alleged victim/PW 1, that, accused misbehaved her daughter. The PW 3 has no
direct knowledge about the incident. In the cross-examination of PW 3 yielded that
mother of the informant had earlier also lodged a false complaint against the
brother of Rinki Chaora. This PW clearly deposed that the informant has habit of

filing false complaint.

aiceo, Sonar
Page 6 of 8

13. PW 4 in her evidence deposed that incident occurred one year ago. ‘S’ told
her mother that accused touched her body while she was in school. 'S’ told that
accused touched her breast. Mother of ‘S’ asked her to go to school of the accused.
That, Headmistress was informed. Accused kept silent while he was asked about the

matter. When friends of ‘S’ was asked, they told that they have not seen anything.

In the cross-examination this PW deposed that now ‘S’ told her that the
incident is a false one and false case was lodged. That, 1/2 year ago accused joined
their school as SMC requested at higher level to transfer the accused to their school
as he is a good teacher in Mathematics. Moni was not happy in this regard. That,
she aware that ‘S’ and Moni pressurized Rinki in this regard. That, all students told
that they have not seen anything done by the accused as alleged. That, in the
meeting it was held that the allegation is a false one. Moni told her that she should
depose evidence favouring prosecution but she told that she will depose the truth.

That, they came to know that this is a false case as ‘S’ told them about this.

I have considered evidences and found that in this case the alleged victim
clearly deposed that accused did no offence. The evidence of the alleged victim
contain nothing concerning the point for determination. The independent witness
i.e. PW 4 in her cross-examination revealed that ‘S'/victim told her that the incident
is a false one and false case has been lodged. As per this PW Moni asked her to
depose evidence in her favour. The cross-examination of another independent
witness PW 2 brings out that the informant has a habit of bringing false allegations
against other villagers. The PW 3 was reported about the incident and has no direct

knowledge.

14, I have considered the cross-examination portion and the evidence of the
alleged victim and found that that the accused has disproved the case of the

Hn prosecution for the following reasons —
oo
opocia Judge i) the alleged victim did not adduce any evidence against the accused,

» —<— Ss ne my OR
hare.ceo, Sonar
Page 7 of 8

ii) the evidences of independent witnesses yielded that the victim told PW 4
that it is a false case.

iii) the evidence of the PW 2 yielded that informant has a habit of lodging false

allegations.

Considering the evidence of alleged victim, it is clear that there is no

evidence on record concerning point for determination.

Under the above circumstances, as the accused has disproved the case,
accordingly, he is acquitted from the offences he is facing trial. He is set at liberty
forth with. Bail bond executed by the accused is extended as per provision 437(A)
Cr.P.C. In opinion of this court there is no circumstance to invoke section 357(A) of
Cr.P,C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 18" day of June 2019.
ye
9 “aio
(S.I.Rahman)

AdditiéhabSessions'ducige.
CHhareideo, Sonarin ari
Page 8 of 8

Appendix

Prosecution Witnesses.
SI. 1---- Prosecution Witness 1 ---Smti. Mani Karmakar.

SI. 2---- Prosecution Witness 2 --- Abul Hussain.
SI, 3---- Prosecution Witness 3 --- Chandra Tanti.
SI. 4---- Prosecution Witness 4 --- Sila Gowala.

S|. 5---- Prosecution Witness 5--- Sabita Karmakar,

Prosecution Exhibits.
Exhibit 1---- Ejahar

Exhibit 1(1)- Signature of the P.W1.

Defence witness.
Nil.

Defence Exhibit.
Nil

 

on
Tee

(S.I.Rahman)

Chen Chae gudge

Charaidéd, Onari
