HEADING OF JUDGEMENT IN SPECIAL CASES:
DISTRICT: DHUBRI.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: DHUBRI.

SPECIAL CASE NO: 41/2017
UNDER SECTIONS: 363/376 IPC
READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE POCSO ACT.

STATE OF ASSAM
VS.
MOTLEB ALI MANDAL

PRESENT:- DIPAK THAKURIA,
SPECIAL JUDGE,
DHUBRI.

APPEARANCES:-
B. R. BASUMATARI, SPECIAL P. P. FOR THE STATE.
J. TALUKDAR, ADV. FOR THE DEFENCE.

DATE(S) OF EVIDENCE:- 21-09-2017, 16-05-2018,
06-09-2018, 31-10-2018,
02-05-2019, 21-10-2019.

DATE OF ARGUMENT:- 06-12-2019.

DATE OF JUDGMENT :- 20-12-2019.

JUDGEMENT
1. Accused Motleb Ali Mandal stands trial for the offences punishable under sections
363/376 IPC read with section 4 of the POCSO Act for allegedly kidnapping and

committing rape or penetrative sexual assault to the minor daughter of the complainant.

2. The facts of the case, as revealed from the ejahar, in brief, are as follows:- that on 20-

09-2016 the complainant lodged a written ejahar before the Officer-in-charge of

1
Golokganj police station against the accused Motleb Aki Mandal with an allegation that
the accused, since last one year induced his 15 year old minor daughter to marry her.
2/3 months back his daughter agreed the proposal of the accused and within 8/9
months the accused established illicit relation with his daughter several times. On 19-09-
2016 at about 11 p.m. the accused took his minor daughter to his house with a view to
marry her. Whole night he committed rape on her and next day morning at about 6 a.m.

the family members of the accused drove her out from his house.

. After receiving the ejahar, Officer-in-charge of Golokganj police station registered a case
as Golokganj P. S. Case No. 943/2016 under sections 366-A/376 IPC read with section 4
of the POCSO Act.

. The investigating officer arrested the accused, produced him before the Court and the
Court remanded him to judicial custody, recorded the statements of witnesses under
section 161 Cr. P. C. and statement of the victim was also recorded under section 164
Cr. P. C. By completing the investigation, I. O. has submitted charge sheet against the
accused person to prosecute him under sections 366-A/376 IPC read with section 4 of
POCSO Act.

. Cognizance of the case was taken in charge sheeted sections and my learned

predecessor granted bail to the accused.

. Copies were furnished to the accused and after hearing both the parties and perusal the
case record and case diary formal charges against the accused under sections 363/376
IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act were framed. Charges so framed were read over

and explained to the accused which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

. The prosecution examined nine witnesses including medical and investigating officers

and closed the evidence.

. After completion of the prosecution evidence, the statement of the accused was
recorded u/s 313 Cr. P. C. by putting questions to him from all incriminating evidence
appearing against him on record and thereby giving him an opportunity to meet the
same. In response to which, the accused denied the allegations as well as evidence on

record and also declined to adduce evidence in defence.
9. Heard learned counsels appearing for the parties and perused the evidence on record.

FOLLOWING POINTS HAVE BEEN SET UP FOR DETERMINATION

Whether the accused on 19-09-2016 at about 11 p.m. at village Choraikhola under
Golokganj police station kidnapped the minor daughter of the complainant from the

lawful guardianship of her parents and thereby accused is liable to be punished

under section 363 IPC?

Whether the accused on the same day time and place committed rape on the minor

daughter of the complainant and thereby accused is liable to be punished under

section 376 IPC?

Whether the accused on the same day time and place committed penetrative sexual

assault to the minor daughter of the complainant and thereby accused Is liable to be

punished under section 4 of the POCSO Act?

DISCUSSIONS ON THE POINTS FOR DETERMINATION AND THE DECISION
ARRIVED THEREON WITH REASON:

10.In order to establish the charges framed against the accused, the prosecution has

examined altogether nine witnesses. Among them P. W. 1 is the complainant and the

father of the victim girl who lodged the ejahar (Ext. 4) where he put his thumb

impression and the prosecution exhibited the same through the investigating officer Hari

Prasad Pathak (P. W. 9). The contents of the ejahar and the oral testimony of the

complainant show that on 19-09-2016 at about 11 p.m. the accused lifted his minor

daughter to his house. In the ejahar, the complainant alleged that the accused promised

to marry his daughter and established physical relationship with her. In the ejahar it was

alleged that the accused after taking his daughter to his house kept her the whole night

and committed rape on her. While deposed in the Court he has deposed that his

daughter had affairs with the accused and on the night of the incident the accused
promising her to marry took her to his house. But the family members of the accused

physically assaulted his daughter and drove her out from their house.

11.Undoubtedly the victim girl whom the prosecution examined as P. W. 8 is the principal

p
witness for the prosecution. Her deposition shows that she had affairs with the accused.
One day at about 11.30 p.m. the accused visited her house and had taken her to his
house where he did bad work with her. The family members of the accused physically
assaulted her and drove her out from their house at about 3 a.m. and the accused fled
away from his house. She was medically examined and her statement was recorded by
Judicial Magistrate under section 164 Cr. P. C. which the prosecution has exhibited and

marked as Ext. 3. Ext. 3 (1) is her signature.

12.The defence categorically cross-examined both the complainant and the victim. They
could not say the date of the occurrence. In cross-examination the complainant has
denied the suggestion of the defence that he filed the case against the accused as
instructed by Nirod Ali Mollah who is the father-in-law of the brother of his wife. He has
further denied the suggestion of the defence that just to compel the accused to marry
his daughter he filed the false case against him. After one day of the incident he filed
the case and the police recovered the girl from the road. The victim girl (P. W. 8) in her
cross-examination has stated that the accused before taking her to his house contacted
with her over phone. Her family members and Panchayat Member found her on road.
Family members of both the houses were not agreed with the marriage between her and
the accused. She has denied the suggestion of the defence that the accused did not take

her to his house and also not did bad work with her.

13.From the oral testimonies of the complainant, the victim, the ejahar and the statement
of the victim recorded by Judicial Magistrate under section 164 Cr. P. C. (Ext. 2) it
transpires that there was affair between the accused and the victim and on the night of
the incident at about 11 p.m. the accused visited the house of the complainant and took
the victim to his house and the family members of the accused physically assaulted her

and drove her out at around 3 p.m.

14.The prosecution examined the grandmother of the victim girl as P. W. 2 who has also
deposed that the accused and her granddaughter had affairs and with a promise to
marry her took her to his house; but his family members physically assaulted her and
drove her out. In cross-examination she has stated that had the accused married her
granddaughter, they would not file the case. The independent witness Kabir Ali Mollah (P.
W. 3) knows nothing about the subject matter of the case. Niradh Ali Mollah (P. W. 4)
has deposed that on the day of the incident at about 2 a.m. the complainant visited his

house and told him that the victim was kidnapped by the accused. Though he visited the
4
house of the accused with the complainant; but they were misbehaved by the family
members of the accused. The victim told him that the accused kidnapped her and the
family members of the accused physically assaulted her. In his cross-examination he has
also deposed that the victim and the accused had affairs and the accused intended to
marry her; but his guardians were not agreed. He has admitted that before I. O. he had
not disclosed that the victim told him that accused kidnapped her. The prosecution
examined brother-in-law of the complainant as P. W. 5 who is the relative of the accused
too. He simply said that two years back accused told him that he loved the victim and
wanted to marry her. In cross-examination he has stated that the marriage of the victim

was solemnized with another person.

15.The victim was medically examined by Dr. Mazida Sultana (P. W. 6). Her deposition
shows that the victim girl told her that she had affairs with Motilal Ali Mandal who
promised to marry her and she had physical relation with the boy. The boy took her to
his house; but his mother refused to accept her. On examination she found no injury
mark on her body, hymen was found absent, there found no spermatozoa in her vaginal
smear and found no evidence of recent sexual intercourse with her. She has exhibited
her report as Ext. 1. Ext. 1 (1) is her signature. To ascertain the age of the victim Dr.
Mohammad Laskar Ali (P. W. 7) did ossification test. He, after perusal the x-rays opined
that approximate radiological age of the victim was 15 years. He has exhibited his report
as Ext. 2 and his signature as ext. 2 (1). In cross-examination he has admitted that he

did not examine the teeth of the victim and the age may vary two years in either side.

16.The case was investigated by P. W. 9 Hari Prasad Pathak. His deposition shows that
during investigation he recorded the statements of witnesses, examined the victim at
Dhubri Civil Hospital, recorded her statement under section 164 Cr. P. C. The accused
took the plea of juvenility and he sent the accused to Fakharuddin Ali Anmed Mediacal
College, Barpeta and found negative report. Ultimately he submitted charge sheet
against the accused under sections 366-A/376 IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act. He
has exhibited the ejahar as Ext. 4, the sketch map of place of occurrence as Ext. 5 and
charge sheet as Ext. 6. He has authenticated his signature in Ext. 5 and Ext. 6 as Ext. 5
(1) and Ext. 6 (1). He has also authenticated the signature of Rustom Raj Brahma, the
then O. C. Golokganj P. S. on the ejahar as Ext. 4 (1). In cross-examination he has
admitted that he did not examine the ejahar writer, did not seized wearing apparel of

the victim. The victim girl visited police station with her father. He did not find any
criminal antecedent of the accused.

17.During the course of the argument learned special public prosecutor has submitted that
in a case under section 376 IPC or section 4 of POCSO Act the main witness for the
prosecution is the victim girl. The victim is a child as defined under the provision of
POCSO Act. She has clearly stated that’ the accused lifted her to his house, did bad work
with her and ultimately she was driven out from his house. The deposition of the victim
has been fully corroborated by other prosecution witnesses including the official
witnesses. So, there is no iota of doubt that the accused, on the day of the incident

kidnapped the minor daughter of the complainant and committed rape on her.

18.On the other hand, learned defence counsel has submitted that from the evidence of the
prosecution witnesses it becomes clear that the victim and the accused had affairs and
what they did it was on their consent. Though the prosecution claimed that the victim
was a child as per POCSO Act; but the prosecution has failed to produce any document
to ascertain the age of the victim. It is not known as to why the investigating officer did
not collect the birth certificate of the victim girl. After the incident marriage of the victim
was solemnized with another boy which shows that she was a major. The prosecution

has failed to establish the charges framed against the accused person.

19.In a case charged under the provision of POCSO Act the age of the victim girl is very
important. As per section 2 (d) of the POCSO Act under the age of 18 is to be considered
as the child. In the case in hand the complainant in his ejahar has stated that his
daughter at the time of the incident was just 15 years old. The complainant being the
father of the victim girl is the best person to know the age of the victim. The victim on
the day of recording her deposition in the Court during trial has stated that she is 17
years old and as per her the incident took place about two years back. After the incident
her statement was recorded by Judicial Magistrate under section 164 Cr. P. C. and
before the Judicial Magistrate she mentioned her age as 15 years. After filing the case
the victim was produced before the medical officer who conducted ossification test and
after examining the x-rays, the medical officer opined that at the time of examination
the victim was 15 years old. The medical Officer (P. W. 7) in his cross-examination has
stated that the age may vary two years in either side. If two years is added, still the age
of the victim on the day of incident was 17 years. Learned defence counsel in his
argument has stressed the fact that the victim solemnized her marriage with another

person. The marriage of the victim was solemnized with another person does not mean

6
that she was a major girl. The medical officer (P. W. 7) after examining the x-ray reports
concluded that the victim was 15 years old. He has not examined the teeth of the victim
which does not negate his report. Besides it the father of the victim has clearly stated
that at the time of the incident the victim was just 15 years old. So, from the evidence
led by the prosecution there is no doubt that at the time of the incident the victim was a
child as defined under section 2 (d) of POCSO Act.

20.To constitute an offence punishable under section 376 IPC or section 4 of POCSO Act the
prosecution has to establish the ingredients under section 375 IPC or section 3 of POCSO
Act. From the evidence on record it transpires that there was affair between the accused
and the victim girl. The complainant in his written ejahar has stated that the accused
with promise to marry his daughter established physical relationship with his daughter
several times and on the night of the incident the accused committed rape on her the
whole night. But while he deposed in the Court during trial does not whisper a single
word that the accused established physical relationship with his daughter and on the
night of the incident committed rape on her the whole night. The victim (P. W. 8) while
deposed in the Court simply stated that the accused did bad work with her. The
statement “did bad work with her” is vague one. On the day of recording her statement
she was a matured one and she was married. So, she knows what physical relation is.
But she has not disclosed whether there was any physical relation on that night or not.
The victim has not stated anything that prior to the date of incident the accused had sex
with her. P. W. 4 in his deposition has stated that on being asked the victim girl told him
that the accused kidnapped her to his house. Regarding commission of rape by the
accused the victim girl did not tell to P. W. 4. The medical officer examined the victim on
22-09-2016 but found no evidence of recent sexual intercourse on her. The medical
officer found the hymen was absent. Hymen may tear for various reasons. Only on

absence of hymen it cannot be concluded that the accused had sex with the victim girl.

21.After perusal the evidence on record it is clear that the prosecution has failed to
establish the ingredients of rape or penetrative sexual assault against the accused. So, it
is safely concluded that the prosecution has failed to establish the charges against the
accused either section 376 IPC or section 4 of POCSO Act.

22.So far charge under section 363 IPC is concerned, it has already been established that

on the day of the incident the victim was a minor girl. The allegation against the accused
is that on 19-09-2016 at about 11 p.m. the accused visited the house of the victim girl
and had taken her to his house and on that night at about 3 a.m. she was driven out
from his house. From the oral testimonies of the material witnesses examined by the
prosecution it is established that the accused took the victim to his house and on that

night at about 3 a.m. she was driven out from his house.

23.As per section 359 IPC, kidnapping of two kinds: kidnapping from India and kidnapping
from lawful guardianship. The case does not fall under the category of kidnapping from
India. As per section 361 IPC whoever takes or entices any minor under the age of
eighteen years of a female out of the keeping of the lawful guardian of such minor
without consent of her guardian is said to be kidnap such female minor from lawful

guardianship.

24.In the case in hand, the accused took the victim to his house at about 11 p.m., kept her
in his house till 3 a.m. and drove her out from his house. The guardian i.e. the father of
the victim was not aware that his daughter was taken away by the accused to his house.
When he came to know the fact, he informed about the incident to P. W. 4 at around 2
p.m. and the complainant and P. W. 4 on that night visited the house of the accused;
but the family members of the accused misbehaved them. So, from the evidence on
record it clears that the accused without consent of the guardian of the victim had taken
her to his house. As the accused had taken the victim at night at about 11 p.m. and on
that night at about 3 a.m. she was driven out from his house; so, intention of the
accused was not good. The quintessence of offence under section 363 IPC is criminal
intention. The intention of a person can be derived from his act. In the case in hand, if
the intention of the accused was good he would come to the house of the complainant
in day time; but the accused visited the house of the complainant at night at 11 O'clock.
Besides it, the accused “did bad work” with the victim in his house as deposed by the
victim. Though the victim did not clarify what the accused actually did with her; but it is
clear that his conduct towards the victim was not good. The fact that the minor victim
was drove out from the house of accused at about 3 a.m. confirms the misbehavior

towards the victim by the accused.

25.In view of the above discussion and observation it is safely concluded that the
prosecution is able to establish the charge against the accused under section 363 IPC
beyond all reasonable doubt. Accordingly the accused is found guilty under section 363

IPC and he is convicted under said section.
26.The accused/convict had affairs with the victim and before she attaining majority, at
night, had taken her away and on that night compelled her to stay on the street. The act
of the accused is simply condemnable and I find no justifiable ground to extend the

benefit of Probation of Offenders Act to the accused/convict.

27.Heard accused/convict on quantum of sentence.

28.Also heard learned counsels appearing for the parties.

29.Accused/convict has stated that this was his first offence. He has prayed to excuse him

as it was his first offence and he will not repeat such type of offence in future.

30.Learned counsel for the prosecution has submitted that the accused/convict should be

given adequate punishment so that it becomes an example for the wrongdoer.

31.0n the other hand learned counsel for the defence has submitted that the accused is a
young boy and at the time of the incident he was just 18 years old. He was not aware
about the consequence what he did and has no criminal antecedent; so, has prayed to

deal with him leniently considering his young age.

32.Prescribed punishment under section 363 IPC is imprisonment of either description for a

term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.

33.The accused/convict is a young boy just 22 years old. The prosecution has failed to
show any criminal antecedent of the accused/convict. Besides it, it is established that he
had affairs with the victim girl. Considering his age it is decided to impose following

punishment.

ORDER

 

34.The prosecution is able to establish the charge against the accused Motleb Ali Mandal
under section 363 IPC and accordingly he is convicted under said section. The
accused/convict is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 3 (three) year and
also pay fine of Rs. 10,000/ (rupees ten thousand) in default rigorous imprisonment for

another 1 (one) month.

35.The prosecution has failed to establish the charge against the accused under section 376

9
IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubt. So, accused is acquitted of
the charges under section 376 IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act on benefit of doubt

36. Fine amount, if realized, shall be given to the victim as compensation.
37.The period underwent during investigation and trial shall be set off as per law.

38.Furnish a free copy of the judgment and order to the accused/convict as per provision of

law.

39.Furnish another copy of judgment and order to the District Magistrate, Dhubri for

information and necessary action, if any, from his side.
Victim compensation.

40.The victim girl at the time of the incident was just 15 years old and due to criminal act of
the accused she suffered mental agony and physical pain; so, I am of the view that the
victim girl is entitled to get compensation under section 357-A Cr. P. C. So, District Legal
Services Authority, Dhubri is asked to determine appropriate amount of compensation to
the victim girl as per victim compensation scheme and pay the same as early as

possible.

41.The bench assistant is directed to provide the name of the victim girl, her father’s name
and address to the Secretary DLSA, Dhubri in a sealed envelope so that DLSA, Dhubri

can communicate with the victim or her legal guardian.

42.Send a copy of this order to the Secretary DLSA, Dhubri for information and necessary

action.

43.Given under my hand and seal of this Court this the 20" day of December 2019.

(D. Thakuria)
Special Judge, Dhubri.

10
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: DHUBRI.

SPECIAL CASE NO: 41/2017
UNDER SECTIONS: 363/376 IPC READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE POCSO
ACT.

STATE OF ASSAM
VS.
MOTLEB ALI MANDAL

APPENDIX
A. Prosecution exhibits:

Ext. 1 : Medical report.
Ext. 2 : Radiological report.
Ext. 3 : Statement of the victim.
Ext. 4 : Ejahar.
Ext. 5 : Sketch map.
Ext. 6 : Charge sheet.
B. Defence Exhibits : Nil.
C. Court Exhibits : Nil.

D. Prosecution Witnesses:

P. W. 1: Complainant,

P. W.2: Grandmother of the victim,
P. W.3:: Kabir Ali Mollah,
P. W.4:  Niradh Ali Mollah,
P.W.5: Relative of the victim,
P.W.6: Dr. Mazida Sultan,
P. W.7: Dr. Mahammad Ali Laskar,
P.W.8: Victim &
P.W.9: Hari Prasad Pathak.

E. Defence Witness: Nil.

F. Court Witness : Nil.

(D. Thakuria )
Special Judge, Dhubri.

11
