IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaiji,

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 3(DH) 2016.
U/s 448 of IPC read with Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

(G.R. Case No.237/2016 (DMJ); Dhemaji P.S. Case No.105/2016 Under Sections-
448/376 (2) (f) of IPC read with Sec. 9(a) (iv) of POCSO Act)

 

The State of Assam
- Versus —
ShriMilon Das, 2 keceecscceeeeeees Accused Person
S/O Lt. Purna Kanta Das,
R/O Bhebeli Gaon,

P.S. Gogamukh,

Dist.- Dhemaji.

Appearance:
Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor nee ee eee es For the State

Shri K.C. Sonowal, Advocate __="........... For the Accused

Dates of prosecution evidence: 13-12-2016, 28-03-2017, 08-05-2017,
09-06-2017 and 17-08-2017,
Date of defence evidence : 17-08-2017,

Date of arguments : 22-07-2019.

Date of Judgment : 22-07-2019.
0)
0
ar
9

Special Judge,
Dhemaii.

JUDGMENT

i. The prosecution case in brief is that on 28-03-2016 complainant- Smt.
Lilima Saikia, W/O Shri Bipin Saikia, R/O Rup Nagar, P.S. Dhemaji, District-
Dhemaji, lodged an ejahar with Dhemaji Police Station alleging interalia that on
that day i.e. on 28-03-2016 at about 5.30 PM. in the evening the accused-Milon
Das came to her house on a motor-cycle along with another person. While she
was talking with the other person at her courtyard, then the accused-Milon Das
took her minor daughter-Smti ‘xX’ (real name is withheld) aged about 5 years 2
months, into her house and put off her wearing pant laid her down on the bed
and inserted his finger into her (victim) vagina and the victim became ‘Akara’
(dumb).

£ On receipt of the ejaha, Police registered a case vide Dhemaji P.S. Case
No. 105/2016 Under Sections- 448/376 (2) (f) of I.P.C. read with sec 9(a) (iv) of
the POCSO Act. On completion of investigation police submitted Charge-sheet
against the accused-Shri Milan Das u/s 448/376 (2) (f) of I.P.C. read with Sec. 10
of POCSO Act.

3 On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the accused, this
Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing both the sides,
framed charges u/s 448 of I.P.C. read with Sec. 8 of POCSO Act and read-over
and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The prosecution, in order to
prove its case, examined 8 witnesses. At the closurer of prosecution evidence,
statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. Accused in his
statement u/s 313 Cr.PC stated that Bipin Saikia had borrowed Rs.30,000/- from
his wife and promised to return the same after receive of his salary. On 28-03-
2016 at about 3 PM Bipin Saikia asked him over phone to come to his house to
take back his money. Then he went to the house of one Gyan Ch. Narah. When
they reached the house of Bipin Saikia, he was absent at his home. His wife
asked them to sit and told them that she would call his husband. Then they sat in
the courtyard and they were offered betel nut. Then Bipin Saikia’s wife let them
know that her husband was not receiving phone. Then they left Bipin Saikia’s
house and on the way he met Bipin Saikia at station road. When he asked Bipin
Saikia to return his money, Bipin Saikia assaulted him with a bamboo lathi and
$ wags,
on

also took away Rs.5000/- from his pocket. His wife lodged a complaint against
the accused in the court which was registered as CR. No.58/2016. He stated that
the accused has filed false case against him to avoid repayment of money and
also filed this false case against him. Accused examined himself as DW1 and also
adduced evidence of one other witness as D.W.
4. Points for determination :

(1) That, on 28-03-2016 at about 5.30 PM at Rup Nagar under Dhemaji
Police Station, you committed house trespass by entering into the dwelling house
of the complainant-Smt. Lilima Saikia to commit sexual assault on her minor
daughter Smti ‘x’, and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 448 of
I.P.C.

(2) That , on 28-03-2016 at about 5.30 PM at Rup Nagar under Dhemaji
Police Station, inside the house of complainant-Smti Lilima Saikia, you committed
penetrative sexual assault inserting your finger into the vagina of Smti- Dristirani
Saikia and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of the Protection
of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.
Bi I have gone through the evidence on record and heard arguments of both
sides.
Discussion of Evidence :
6. PW1 Dr. Gunaram Doley stated that on 31-03-2016 he was serving
as Medical & Health Officer at Dhemaji Civil Hospital. On that day, he examined
the victim Smt. ‘X’ vide Emergency OPD ML No. 364/2016 dated 28-03-2016 on
being identified by WHG Hiramai Bordoloi. On examination, he found no any

 

injury or sign of recent sexual intercourse. As per radiological report, the age of
the victim girl is above 5 years and below 9 years.

Exhibit-1 is the medical examination report and Ext-1(1) is his signature.
Ext-2 is the X-Ray report and Ext-2(1) is the signature of Bhupen Kuli which is
known to him.

Defence declined to cross-examine PW1 (Doctor).
3: PW2, the victim Smti ‘xX’ stated that the accused Milon Das is known to
her. Accused made her sleep on the bed and he touched her vagina (‘SUSU)
with his penis. He also put his finger on my ‘SUSU’. Then her mother shouted and
special Juage,
phemeail.

she came to her mother. She did not tell her mother anything at that time but
when he went, she told her mother. She was medically examined by Doctor and
she told before another judge also and she had signed there. Exhibit-3 is the
statement u/s 164 of CR.P.C. and Ext-3 (1-2) are her signatures therein.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that the school is nearby. She studies on
her own and her mother help sometimes. Today (i.e. 13-12-2016) she came with
her mother and father. I had come to Court earlier also but do not remember
when. Her mother told her what to say. She denied the defence suggestion that
accused-Milon Das did not go to their house and did not do anything to her. She
admitted that she did not cry nor did she shout.

8. PW3 Smti Lilima SAikia stated that she is the mother of the victim Smti
"X’, Accused-Milon Das is an old friend of her husband. During Matric Examination
accused-Milon Das had duty there. He is a police constable. Then her husband
met him and asked him to come over to their house. Accused came to their house
one day at about 3.30 PM with his wife. theh had called her husband and told him
about their coming. Her husband told her. at that time she was sieving the rice.
When they came, she asked them to sit in the house and they stayed in our
house that night. Next day at about 9 AM Milomn Das came for his duties and his
wife left at about 10 AM. During the entire duty period, he sued to bring drinks
and also take his friends to their house. She did not like it. After his exams duties
got over he did not come for about one month. Then after one month he came
with a Missing person on a bike. She asked them to sit in the veranda. Victim was
having fever that day and she was taking her in her lap. Then Milon Das asked
her to come to him and she went to him. Then she went inside to get the ‘tamul’.
Then he (accused) took her daughter and she was outside with the other person.
They did not come out for a long time and a doubt came to her. Then she
shouted and the victim ran out hugged her. Her chest was against her cheek and
it was beating very hard. Milon Das then came out and again called her (victim)
but she refused to go to him. When she asked why she started shieving. She got
suspicions. But Milon was insistant. Then she took her in her lap and sat down.
Then Milon wanted water and asked for the victim. But she hugged her tightly
and she got more suspicions. Then she went and got water and he had some.
Milon came out. In order to confirm her suspicion, she asked her to wait as she
wanted to wash her feet. Then Milon came from the back and again grabbed her
but she shouted and ran to her. Then Milon again gave her 2 ten rupee notes and
asked her to go with him to the shop but she refused. Her husband had not come
back and they asked about him. But during the evening they left. Then she asked
the victim and she told her that Milon had made her sleep on the bed and opened
her pant and touched his penis to her vagina and had made her touch his penis
and had also asked her to take out her tongue and had even inserted his finger in
her anus. She called her husband and when her husband came she told him
about the incident. Then she lodged complaint. Victim was examined medically.
She also gave her 164 Statement.

Exhibit-4 is the FIR and EXt-4(1) is her Signature. EXt-5 is the 164
Statement and Ext-5(1-2) are her signatures.

In cross-examination PW3 stated that she did not tell the police and the
Magistrate about how the accused had come to their house during the Matric
period and about his wife coming and Staying in their house and he bringing
friends and having drinks at our house. She denied the defence suggestion that
she did not tell the Magistrate and the Police about the victim having fever and
she taking her in her lap nor about his friend advising treatment nor about her
having a fast heart beat. She denied that she did not tell the Magistrate and the
Police that MIlon Das wanted to have water and that he had again grabbed her
from behind and she shouted. She denied that she did not tell the Magistrate and
the Police that the accused had made her/victim touch his penis. She denied that
she did not tell the Magistrate and the Police about calling fishing and then
informing her husband and saying that they have to file the case. SHe denied the
defence suggestion that her husband had taken Rs,30,000/- from Milon and when
he went there to get back the money, they filed the false case and also beat him
up and snatched Rs, 5000/- from him. It is denied that she has given false case
and that they have tutored the victim to give false evidence. She denied the
defence suggestion that nothing bad had happened to her. She did not raise any
alarm even though there are other people nearby.
ie

S pocial Judge,
P onemall

9. PW4 Shri Bipin Saikia stated that she knows the accused Milon Das.
Lilima SAikia is his wife. The incident took place about 7 months back. He was not
at home at the time of incident. The accused (Milon) had misbehaved with his
daughter Smt. ‘x’. Accused had asked her daughter to take out her tongue and
had also taken out his penis and touched it to her private parts. He got back
home and was told about it by his wife. At that time his daughter was about 5
years old. He asked his daughter/victim and she also told him what his wife had
told him. His wife had filed the case. When he went to file the case Milon Das was
also there and when he said that he was the culprit he fled even though the
police had tried to catch him. Her daughter was medically examined by Doctor.

In cross-examination PW4 stated that he was not at home when the
incident took place. He denied the defence suggestion that he had not told the
police that the accused had tried to flee from the police station. He denied that
the accused had filed a case against him for taking his money and had also
beaten him up. He had heard that a Missing person had also gone there but he
does not know his name. He knew Milon from before. He denied the defence
suggestion that his daughter did not tell him anything about the incident and they
have filed a false case against him.

10. PW5 Gyan CH. Narah stated that he knows the accused Milon Das. He
does not know any Lilima Saikia. IT was last year. There was a Congress Meeting
at Gogamukh on that day. He had gone there and he was returning and had
reached Karisuk and was having tea in the office of the Congress there. Then he
went out and reached the market and there Milon Das called him and he wanted
to go to someone house. But, said that he cannot go. But he insisted and so he
went with him on his bike. They went to someone house. There, the lady was
sitting in the courtyard and then he called her. There was a daughter also. The
child was crying and when he enquired the lady told that she was suffering from
fever. Then he told to wash her hands and feet with warm water. He also asked
them to take to the doctor. Then the lady went inside to bring betel nut. Then
they had the nut. Then he told Milon that they should go but he said let them
wait for some time. Then he left him there and came out and was waiting in the
courtyard. After sometime, he returned to their house and then Milon came out of
Special Judge,
Dhemell.

the house and they left on the bike. Then they stopped and he got busy with the
phone and left him.

Defence declined to cross-examine PW5.

11. PW6 Dipjyoti Sutradhar stated that he is a police constable. He knows
the accused Milon Das. He also knows Lilima Saikia and the victim Smt. ‘Xx’. The
occurrence took place in the year 2016. At that time he was at home. Two quests
had come to his house and he had gone to see them off. He overheard from
some boys there that Milon Das had done bad thing to the girl. Then he heard
that Lilima had come to the Police Station so he came and there also he got to
hear about the incident. He did not ask Lilima anything.

In cross-examination PW6 denied the defence suggestion that he had not

heard anything.
12. PW7 Smt. Chenehi Sonowal stated that she knows the accused-Milan
Das. She also knows Lilima Saikia and her daughter-Dristirani Saikia. It was about
1 year ago. Milan Das has gone to Lilima’s house as guest and at that time
Dristirani was having a fever and he asked her to sit in his lap and also asked her
to go with him to the shop. He also took her inside and made her lie on the bed
and put her finger in her private parts. Then she told her mother about the
incident and she called the neighbours and also called her husband who was not
at home at that timer. Later Lilima filed a case in the police station. She had also
asked Dristi and she told her about the incident. Police also seized two ten rupees
notes that Milan had given Dristi and the same were handed over to the police by
Lilima.

Exhibit-6 is the seizure list and Ext-6(1) is her signature. M.Ext-A are two
ten rupees note that were seized by the police and shown to him in the Court.

In cross-examination PW7 stated that on the date of incident she was not
there, she had gone to her mother’s house. She got to know about it the next
day. She denied the defence suggestion that she had lied today as they are her
neighbours. She had good relationship with them.

13. PW8 Nirmal Biswas stated that on 28-03-2004 he was posted as 2"
Officer at Dhemaji Police Station. On that day at about 7 PM O/C, Dhemnaji Police
Station SHri Lambit GOgoi received an ejahar from Smt. Lilima Saikia and he
registered a case vide DHemaji P.S. Case No. 105/16 u/s 448/376 (2) (f) read
with Sec- 9(a) (iv) of POCSO Act and entrusted him with the investigation of the
case. During investigation he sent the complainant and the victim to Dhemaji Civil
Hospital for medical examination. On 29-3-2016 in the morning at 9 AM he went
to the P.O. The P.O is the house of the complainant situated at Rup Nagar. He
prepared a sketch map. EXt-7 is the sketch map and EXt-7(1) is his signature. He
seized two ten rupee notes vide EXt- 6, seizure list. EXt-6(2) is his Signature. M
Ext. 1 and 2 are seized two ten rupee notes. He questioned the witnesses
including the complainant and recorded their statements. He went to the house of
the accused but did not find him in his house. He sent the complainant and the
victim girl to the court for recording their statements u/s 164 of Cr.P.C. He
collected the medical report of the victim, On 2-5-2016 he arrested the accused
and sent him to the court after medical examination. After completion of
investigation he filed charge sheet against the accused u/s 448/376 (2) (f) IPC
R/W Sec. 10 of POCSO Act. Ext-8 is the Charge-sheet and Ext.8(1) is his
signature. Ext.9 is the sketch map and Ext.9(1) is his signature. Ext.10 is the
charge-sheet and Ext.10(1) is his signature. Ext.4 is ejahar and Ext.4(2) is the

signature of O/C Lambit GOgoi with note.
In cross-examination PW8 stated that witness- Lilima SAikia did not state
?) before him that the victim was suffering from fever. Witness Lilima Saikia also did
4 not state before him that accused wanted water, he grabbed the victim and she

Axo shouted.
14, DW1 Smt. Rinku Das stated that accused-Milan Das is her husband. He
spel is a police constable. They have been living in a rented house at Ram Nagar for
about 7 years. They have two sons and a daughter. Satyajit is their eldest son.
She knows Buipin SAikia of Rup Nagar. About 2 years ago Bipin SAikia toof money
from her husband for the business of pig. He assured them to return the money
within 6 months. At the time of giving money to the person, her eldest son was
present. But Bipin Saikia did not return the money to them within the period of 6
months.

In cross-examination DW1 could not Say when they lend money. Bipin
Saikia called her husband to receive money on 28-3-2016. She denied that taking
foe

a

\

money by Bipin Saikia as loan is not true. She also denied that Bipin Saikia called
her husband to return the money, did not commit ‘mar-pit’. She also denied that
they made this plan of giving money on loan to Bipin Saikia in connection with
this case.
15. DW2 Shri Khagen Dutta stated that he knows complainant Bipin Saikia
and accused Milan Das. He has a Tea stall at Dhemaji Chariali. Both of them used
to come to his Tea stall for having tea, betel nut etc. He heard about discussion
of money between them. He heard that Milan Das told Bipin Saikia to return the
money.

In cross examination DW2 admitted that he does not know about
monitory transaction between accused Milan Das and Bipin Saikia. Accused Milan
Das never told him that he has to get money from Bipin Saikia.

Appreciation of Evidence :

16. From the discussion of the evidence on record it appears that PW3 the
complainant as well as mother of the victim lodged complaint against the accused
alleging that on the relevant date and time accused came to her house. At the
time accused come to her house, PW3’s daughter was having fever and accused
asked her daughter to come to him and then he took her in his arms and came
inside the room of a house and as stated by her daughter accused sexually
abused her daughter. PW3 in her evidence also stated that when the accused was
with her daughter inside the room she suspected that something bad was going
on. She shouted and her daughter came out of the room and hugged her. She
also stated that her daughter was shivering. She suspected some fault play. She
also stated that accused again grabbed her daughter and her daughter shouted.
On being asked her daughter told her that Milon made her sleep on her bed and
removed her panty and touched her vagina with his penis. And he also made her
touched his penis. In cross examination she denied defence suggestion that her
husband had taken Rs.30,000/- from the accused and when he went to their
house to get back the money, they gave him a beating and snatch Rs.5,000/-
from him. She also denied that she has given false case against the accused. PW2
victim in her evidence stated that accused made her sleep in the bed and touched
her chucu (vagina) with his penis. She also stated that he also put his finger in
special Judge,
Dhemaill.

10

her vagina. She stated that she did not told her mother about the incident when
the accused left. In the cross examination PW2 stated that her mother told her
what to say in the court. PW2 also gave statement u/s 164 Cr.PC and made
similar statement. The victim was medically examined, but doctor did not find any
sign of sexual assault or intercourse nor any marks of violence on the person of
the victim. PW4 father of the victim made similar statement as PW3. PWS in his
evidence stated that on the relevant date he along with accused Milon Das went
to the house of the complainant and there they had betel nut and accused Milon
Das stayed in their house for some time and he left. And thereafter accused Milon
Das came out and both of them left the place. PW6 stated that he heard that
accused Milon Das misbehaved with complainant's daughter. PW7 in his evidence
stated that he heard about the incident on the next day.

17, Coming to the evidence of the DWs it is seen that Smt. Rinku Das wife of
accused Milon Das examined herself as DW1. She stated that about two years
back Bipin Saikia (PW4) had borrowed money from her husband for doing
business as pig seller. He promised to return the money when PW4 got his salary.
She also stated that her son was also present at the time of giving money. In
cross examination DW1 stated that PW4-Bipin Saikia called her husband to his
house to return the money. DW2 Khagen Dutta testified that he had a shop at
Dhemaji Chariali and both accused and Bipin Saikia came to his shop and he
heard accused Milon Das asking Bipin Saikia to return his money. However in the
cross he stated that accused Milon Das did not tell him about lending money to
Bipin Saikia.

18. I have very carefully considered the evidence of PWs as well as DWs. I
have also carefully examined the plea taken by the accused in support of his
defence. From the materials on record it reveals that the accused along with PW5
went to the house of the victim. PW5 did not support the evidence of PW2 and
PW3. It also revealed from the cross examination of PW3 that she did not raise
any alarm even though there were other people nearby. Moreover PW2 the victim
in her cross examination stated that her mother told her what to say in the court.
The medical evidence is silent about any marks of violence or sign of intercourse
11

and as such it militates against the evidence of any sexual violence on the person
of the victim.

19. In the instant case as discussed above though prosecution relies upon the
evidence of the victim, her evidence did not find Support from the medical
evidence. Over and above PW5 who was present at the time of occurrence did
not support the prosecution version regarding involvement of the accused in the
alleged commission of sexual assault.

20. I am also conscious about the provision that — ‘Where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
Sections 3,5,7 and Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that
such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as
the case may be unless the contrary is proved." It is well settled that even if the
evidence of DWs is not believed, the initial burden is on the prosecution to prove
its case beyond all reasonable doubt.

Zi. In view of what has been discussed above I find that Prosecution has
failed to prove the offence u/s 448 IPC and 4 of POCSO Act beyond all reasonable
doubt.

ORDER:

 

22. In the result I find accused Milon Das not guilty u/s 448 IPC and 4 of
POCSO Act. Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charges leveled against him. Set
him at liberty forthwith.

23. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.

24. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 22"4 day of

July/2019. “yal? p
L

( S. Das )
il. Judge,
pbbemaii.
