 

 

Page 1 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 04/2017
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI,

SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl. POCSO Case No. 04/2017
Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

 

State of Assam
sVS=

Sri Damodar Borah
coeees Accused

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,

Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Advocates _Appeared:-
For the prosecution: Mr. J. Bardoloi, learned Addl. P.P
For the defence :Mr.$-Rodnon , learned Advocate,

Dates of recording Evidence: 15.03.2018, 01.06.2018.
Date of Argument : 01.06.2018.
Date of Judgment : 01.06.2018.

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in brief is that on 23.03.2017 the informant, Smti Sanju Ghising
lodged an FIR with the OC Behali PS stating inter-alia that on 22.03.2017 the accused,
Damodar Borah taking advantage of absence of his wife took his dumb child aged about
10 years (name is withheld) to his official quarter and committed ‘beya kam’ on her. She
stated that the victim had through her various gestures informed her about the incident
for which one ‘bichar’ was called at about 3 PM on 23.03.2017 and as per its decision,
she lodged the FIR.

Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After
investigation, the police submitted a charge-sheet against the accused u/s 4 of POCSO
Act. The accused in due course appeared before this court to face trial. He was
furnished with the copies of the relevant documents. After hearing on the point of
charge and taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173 CrPC, as my learned
predecessor found grounds for presuming that the accused had committed an offence
punishable u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, the charge accordingly was framed against him,

which on being read over and explained, he pleaded not guilty.
 

Page 2 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 04/2017
During trial, the prosecution examined three witnesses in all including the informant and

her husband and the Investigating Officer. From the case record it appears that though
the victim had appeared to adduce evidence and an expert interpreter, Smti Sewali
Borah too appeared to assist the court in order to interpret the oral testimony of the
victim, but the expert interpreter from the North East Regional Multipurpose School and
Handicapped Training Centre, Burigang, Balipukhuri in writing had informed that the
victim is not in a position to say anything and it is impossible for her to take any
information from the victim. It also appears from the order dated 15.05.2018 that the
court also tried to personal interact with the victim but failed as the victim does not
understand any question put to her and she even could not say her name. Considering
the report of the expert Interpreter, the evidence of the victim was dispensed with.

Taking note of the evidence as adduced by the mother of the alleged victim i.e., the
informant, PW 2 and the father of the victim, PW 1 and the evidence as adduced by the
PW 3- the Investigating Officer, the prosecution declined to examine the remaining
witnesses contending that further evidence would not strengthen the prosecution case.
Upon hearing both the sides, taking note of the materials on record and also by taking
judicial notice of the Medical Examination of the victim, the prosecution evidence was
closed. As no any incriminating evidence was found against the accused, his
examination u/s 313 CrPC was dispensed with. The case was thereafter argued by both

the sides.

Points for determination
Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed penetrative

sexual assault on the said victim, who is below the age of 18 years?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

PW 2 is the informant, who is the mother of the victim, namely, Sanju Ghising. She
stated that the incident took place in the month of April, last year. According to her, it
appeared to her that the accused had committed some offence on her 11 year old dumb
daughter. She stated that she misunderstood her and filed the FIR against the accused.
She further stated that the FIR was written by someone else wherein she had only put
her thumb impression. She is not aware of the contents of the FIR. She also stated that
she has not witnessed the alleged the occurrence. In her cross-examination she stated
that she lodged the FIR out of misunderstanding and for the reason that she was asked
to do so by others in this regard. She has no grievance against the accused, she stated.

PW 1, Kulbahadur Ghising stated that he could know that the accused had committed

‘peya kam’ to his daughter and a meeting was called in that regard. According to him,
Page 3 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 04/2017
the boys of the organisation, ATSA instigated his wife to lodge the FIR and they forcibly

called police. He also stated that his daughter is dumb and he has no grievance against
the accused. He further stated that he did not witness the said occurrence.

7. Thus from the evidence of the parents of the victim, we find that the FIR was lodged
against the accused out of misunderstanding and on being instigated by others. PW 3,
S.I., Debojiban Saikia, the Investigation Officer of the case, stated in his cross that the
Medical Examination Report of the victim does not disclose of any such offence
committed on her.

8. From the evidence of the three vital witnesses, we do not find any convincing material

against the accused to convict him on the offence charged against him. The prosecution

  

has failed to prove its case. I therefore acquit the accused person from the offence

   
 

   
 

 

, ek i : eee ;
xs SNITPUR iy J charged against him and set him at liberty forthwith. The petition no. 1034/18 filed by
Spe e the accused u/s 437-A CrPC is allowed upon hearing both the sides. The bail bond
Wats ‘ oF

executed on behalf of the accused is extended for a period of six months. A copy of the
judgment be forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec.
365 Cr.P.C. The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 1° day of June, 2018.

tay

(D. sot A)
Additional Sessions ‘idee PIC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.

Addl. Sessions Judge
giswanath Chariali, Sonitpur
Page 4 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 04/2017

 

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Sri Kulbahadur Chetry

PW2- Smti Sanju Ghising

PW3- S.I. Debajiban Saikia (1.0.)

 

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Exhibit-1: Sketch Map.
Exhibit-2: Charge sheet.

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

None.

Le

al”

udge

ae

ions J a
pad Sepa sonitput

giswen
