1

_IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 50/2019
U/S 376/457 I.P.C. R/W section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

PRESENT : Sri V. K. Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LLB., AJS,

Special Judge,
Barpeta.

State of Assam
- Vs -
Shajamaluddin

Charge framed on:- 19.03.2019

Date of Recording Evidence on - 30.03.2019 & 11.04.19

Date of Hearing Argument on - 12.04.2019.

Date of Delivering the Judgment on - 12.04.2019.

Appearance :

Advocate for the State-------------- Mr. Lalit Nath, Learned P.P.

Advocate for the Accused---------- Md. Lukman Ali, Learned Advocate.
JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that, on 06.01.2019 one
Bahadur Ali lodged an FIR in Barpeta P.S. alleging inter alia that on
05-01-2019 at about 10 pm accused persons named in the FIR by
allegedly taking advantage of absence of family members committed
lurking house trespass by entering illegally in to the dwelling house
of the Shamejuddin, by cutting the rope of the bamboo door of the
house and committed rape on minor girl Asmina Parbin aged about
15 years. Hence the case.

2 Acting on the information police got a case registered being
Barpeta PS. case No. 38/19 u/s 457/376 I.P.C. R/W section 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012 and investigated the case.

ce On completion of investigation, police finally laid the charge
2

sheet against accused Shajamaluddin u/s 457/376 I.P.C. R/W section
4 of POCSO Act, 2012 with a view to stand trial.

4. In due course, when accused entered his appearance in court
vide order dated 19.03.2019 all the particulars relating to the case
were furnished to accused. Thereafter, having heard the learned
counsel and on perusal of the record having found a prima facie
case, charge u/s 457/376 I.P.C. R/W section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012,
were framed. The substance of the offences on being read over and
explained, accused pleaded not guilty and claim to stand trial.

5. During the course of trial, the prosecution examined 4
witnesses namely the alleged victim Asmina Parbin as PW-1, Bahadur
Ali as PW-2, Samej Ali as PW-3 and Rabiya Begum as PW-4. However,
considering the nature of evidence adduce by these witnesses and
after hearing the learned PP. further prosecution evidence stands
closed.

6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. The plea of the
accused is total denial of the prosecution case. As such, on being
asked accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

7. Now point for determination ;-

.1. Whether on 05.01.2019 at about 10 pm accused committed
lurking house trespass by entering illegally in to the
dwelling house of the Shamejuddin, by cutting the rope of
the bamboo door as alleged and thereby liable for
committing an offence u/s 457 IPC?

.2. Whether on the same day and time accused committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl as alleged and
thereby committed an offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act ?

.3. Whether on the same day and time accused committed
rape on the victim girl age about 15 years as alleged and
thereby committed an offence u/s 376 IPC ?

8. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-

 

| have heard the learned lawyers appearing for bothSpl. POCSO
3

Act./103/2018 sides and also carefully scanned the prosecution
evidence available on record.

9. The learned counsel appearing for the State Sri Lalit Nath
submitted that though the prosecution examined 4 witnesses but the
court may pass judgment after assessment of evidence in view of
poor quality of evidence adduce by the prosecution witnesses.

10. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the
accused person vehemently contended that there is absolutely no
evidence at all implicating the accused person for recording
conviction for the offences u/s 457/376 I.P.C. R/W section 4 of POCSO
Act, 2012. According to the learned defence counsel, the prosecution
has failed to bring home the guilt of accused for sustaining
conviction for the aforesaid offences. As such, the learned counsel
prays to acquit the accused person.

11. In the context of the submission of the learned counsel
appearing for both sides it would be in the fitness of things to refer to
the charge sections against accused person.

“376. Punishment for rape. - Whoever, except in the
caswes provided for by sub-section (2), commits rape shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
Shall not be less than seven years but which may be for life or for a
term which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine
unless the women raped is his own wife and is not under twelve
years of age, in which cases, he shall be punished with imprisonment
of either description for a term which may extend to two years or
with fine or with both.”

“457. Lurking house trespass or house-breaking by
night in order to commit offence punishable’ with
imprisonment. - Whoever commits lurking house-trespass by night,
or house-breaking by night, in order to the committing of any ofence
punishable with imprisonment, shall be punished with imprisonment
of either description for a term which may extend to five years, and
Shall also be liable to fine and if the offence intended to be
committed is theft, the term of the imprisonment may be extended
to fourteen years.

“4. Punishment for penetrative sexual assault. - Whoever
commits penetrative sexual assault shall be punished’ with
imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less
then 7 years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and
Shall also be liable to fine.”

12. Now, on perusal of the offence u/s 376/457 |.P.C. R/W_ section
4 of POCSO Act and having heard the learned counsels appearing for
both sides and on careful perusal of the evidence available on record
particularly the evidence of the alleged victim PW-1 it transpires that
she brought the accused mobile phone to make telephone to her
father, who was working at Guwahati at that time. She brought the
mobile phone from the accused and telephoned to her father and she
kept the mobile phone on her table. She thought that she will return
the mobile phone in the next day morning. But after some time her
mother enquired about the mobile phone she told that the mobile
phone belongs to the accused person. At that time village people
came and the case was lodged. She is unable to speak anything
about the incident not to speak of commission of the penetrative
sexual assault against her. From her evidence nothing can even be
inferred even remotely that accused had committed the offence u/s
376/457 |.P.C. R/W section 4 of POCSO Act.

13. In her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. also (Exhibit 1) she was
tutored by police to give her statement.

14. In his evidence PW-2 stated that he reside at a distance of 4
Kms from the house of the victim. On getting the information over
phone he went to the place of incident and came to know that
accused went to the room of the victim on previous night and seeing
him accused person fled away from the place. Accused person was
suspected to be involved in this case as his mobile phone was found
in the room of the victim. Nobody told him that they identified the
accused person.

15. PW-3 the father of the victim alleged that he was not present
in the house on the day of incident.
5

16. PW-4 the step mother of the alleged victim girl could not say
that anything as to what had happened with her daughter.

17. Therefore, after appreciation of evidence of the star witnesses
namely the alleged victim girl, the informant, her parents this court
was of the considered view that proceeding further with the case for
recording evidence of remaining prosecution witnesses would be the
sher waste of valuable time and energy of the court which would in
the estimation of the court would bring no fruitful result in the final
count.

15. The above being the position, this court has no option but to
acquit the accused Shajamaluddin from the charges u/s 376/457
|.P.C. R/W section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 on the ground of benefit of
doubt and set him at liberty forthwith.

16. The terms of bail bond of accused is extended for a period of 6
(six) months from to-day as provided U/S 437(A) of Cr.P.C.

17. Leta copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District
Magistrate, Barpeta as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.

18. Let case record be consigned to record room as per procedure.
19. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on 12th day of
April, 2019, at Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me

Sd/-
Sd/- (Sri V. K. Chandak)
(Sri V. K. Chandak) Special Judge,
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Barpeta.
APPENDIX

1. The prosecution has examined the following 4 nos. of
witnesses:-

PW-1 = is Miss Asmina Parbin, the victim girl.

PW-2 = is Bahadur Ali, the informant.

PW-3 = is Samej Ali.

PW-4 = is Rabiya Begum.
2. The prosecution has exhibited only one document :-

Ext. 1 = is the statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

Ext.1(1) &1(2) = are the signatures of the victim girl.

Sd/-

(Sri V.K. Chandak)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
