OF JUDGMENT IN SESSIONS CASE

District :- Goalpara.
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, GOALPARA.

Present:- Sri S. Hazarika, A,J.S.
Special Judge,
Goalpara.

Spl. Case No. 23/2018.
U/s.363 of I.P.C. R/W. Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

In connection with GR Case No.1668/18

State
-VS-

1. Galib Hussain

weeeenues Accused.

Ld. Advocates appeared:-

For the Prosecution - Sri S. Sarma, Special Public prosecutor.

For the accused - Mr. Gul Mahammad, Advocate

Date of evidence :- 17/11/2018, 01/12/2018, 20/12/2018,
02/02/2019 & 26/02/2019.

Date of argument -- 03/05/2019.

Date of judgment :- 12/06/2019.

UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that the informant Solimuddin
Seikh lodged an F.I.R. on 02/07/2018 with O/C of Krishnai P.S. alleging inter
alia that the prosecutrix is his daughter who was aged about 17 years at the
time of the incident. The accused in order to commit sexual intercourse on
28/06/2018 he came with his two friend in a vehicle and by promising to
marry her took her, in a tempo(vehicle) to his house. The family members of
the accused did not accept his daughter and hide the accused in inknown
place. As the public came to know about the incident, the prosecutrix was
handed over at Agia PS. The accused at the time of taking his daughter
committed intercourse with her. As there was talk of compromise the delayed
in filing the F.I.R. Accordingly, the informant prayed for taking necessary
action against the accused.

2. On receipt of the said F.I.R. O/C of Krishnai P.S. registered the
present case and investigation was done. During the course of his
investigation the I/O. Arrested the accused and forwarded him. The victim
was examined and medical examination was also done. The victim was sent
to Court for recording her statement and accordingly, her statement recorded
U/S.164 Cr.P.c. The I/O also seized one school certificate. The I/O prepared the
Sketch Map of the P.O. After completion of investigation submitted Charge
Sheet against the accused.

3. The present case was registered as Spl. Case and the copies of
relevant documents were furnished. After hearing both parties and
considering the materials on record, this Court was pleased to frame charges
U/S.363 of I.P.C. R/W Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused. The
contents of the charges were read over and explained, to which, the accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. POINT FOR DETERMINATION ARE :

(i) Whether the accused on 28/06/2018 at around 7:00 P.M.
at village Khamar Manikpur kidnapped a minor girl who was aged about 17
years by removing her from her parents without their consent ?

(ii) Whether the accused on or about the same date, time and

place committed penetrative sexual assault upon the minor victim girl ?

5. After the evidence of the prosecution side the statement of the
accused was recorded U/S.313 of Cr.P.c. wherein the accused claimed to be
innocent and denied each and every circumstances against him. The accused
declined to adduce evidence in defence .
6. | have heard submissions of both parties and also gone through
the evidence on record.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND RESONS THREFORE :

 

7. In the instant case, the prosecution sides examined 8(eight)
witnesses including two official witnesses. Among the witnesses PW1 is the
informant. PW2 is the victim(prosecutrix) of the present case. PW3 is the
sister of the victim. PW4 is the brother of the informant. PW5 and PW6 are
the two independent witnesses. PW7 is the Medical Officer and PW8 is the I/O
of the Case.

8. Considering the nature of the case, let me now, first discuss
the evidence of the Medical Officer who examined as PW7 Dr. M. Lagachu in
her evidence stated that on 03/07/2018 she was posted as Medical Officer at
Goalpara Civil Hospital and on that day, she examined the victim in
connection with Krishnai PS. Case No.176/2018. The victim was identified by
WPC 308 Krishna Ch. Choudhury. On examination of the victim. She found her
height 4’10’ ,weight 45 Kgs., teeth 15/15. On examination no abnormality
was detected , hymen was found absent and vagina admitted two fingers.
Further, on examination other reports, the age of the victim was found to be
above 18 years and below 20 years. Further, she stated that there was no
sign of recent sexual intercourse. There was no mark of violence on her
private parts. She proved the medical report as Ext.3.

On going through the evidence of the Medical Officer it appears
that there was no sing of recent sexual intercourse and there was no mark of
violence on her private parts. The teeth was found 15/15. The Medical
Officer further opined that the age of the victim was above 18 years and
below 20 years. Though the Medical Officer ascertained the age of the victim
above 18 years and below 20 years but such opinion cannot conclusively
prove about the age of the prosecutrix. The opinion of the Medical Officer
may vary two years less or above. The approximate age of the prosecutrix
could be ascertained by the Medical science. Therefore, the age of the victim
may be 16 years or may be 22 years. Therefore, opinion of the Medical
Officer regarding the age of the victim cannot be accepted.

i The informant as PW1 stated that four months back his
daughter’s age was_' around 16 years. She was studying in school. She had
love affairs with the accused and he took her to his house. As the parents of
the accused did not accept his daughter she was handed over at the Police
Station. Thereafter, she took her to her residence and there was talk of
compromise with the relatives of the accused. The FIR was lodged with few
days in delay. The Police also seized one school certificate regarding the date
of birth of his daughter. On the date of the examination he brought the
original school certificate. Ext.1 is the school certificate proved in original. In
his cross-examination, he stated that he lodged the F.I.R. after four days of
the incident.

Though the informant in his FIR has stated that due to talk of
compromise the FIR was lodged with some days delay but in his evidence
he remained silent. Admittedly there was delay of four days in lodging the
F.IL.R. The informant except for his evidence did not bring any other
independent witnesses to show that both the parties were having talk of
compromise. Further in his cross-examination he stated that he has no
personal knowledge as to how his daughter got missing and only after inquiry
he came to know that the accused has taken his daughter to his house. The
informant in his evidence stated that the accused had done bad things with
her daughter but in cross-examination he stated that he does not know what
bad thing was done with her daughter. Thus, the evidence of the informant
that the accused came and kidnapped his daughter and took her to his house
was heard from others. As he himself admitted that he has no personal
knowledge about the incident. Further, this witness admitted that he is an
illiterate person and he does not know what is written in the seizure list
which was prepared by Police. He also stated that he does not know what is
written in his F.I.R. This is a very vital lacunae in the prosecution case. The
maker of the FIR himself admitted that he does not know what is written in
the F.I.R.

10. PW2 is the prosecutrix. She is the vital witness to the
prosecution case. In her evidence she stated that her date of birth is
20/04/2002. The incident occurred four months back. She had love affairs
with accused Galib Hussain. On the date of the occurrence, at about 8:30,
P.M. the accused called her and asked her to accompany him. The accused

4
came_ with his friend in an Auto and he threatened that if she refuse to go
with him he will upload a Video in the social media. Thereafter, the accused
took her up to his house where he committed rape upon her. Thereafter, the
brother of the accused came and asked Galiob Hussain to run away from the
house and she was taken to Police Station. She was accordingly, handed over
at Agia P.S. and on the subsequent day, her father came and received her.
Police took her to Hospital and thereafter, she was taken to Court for
recording her statement and she accordingly gave her statement U/S.164
Cr.P.C. Ext.1 is the School certificate regarding her date of birth and copy of
the same was taken by Police. Ext.2 is her statement U/S.164 Cr.P.c.

The evidence of the prosecutrix is very clear that her date of
birth is 24/04/2012. She further proved the Ext.1 vide which her school
certificate was seized by Police. On perusal of the Ext.1 it is quite evident
that date of birth of the victim is 20/04/2002 which has been fully
corroborated by prosecution in her evidence. The evidence of the prosecutrix
is very clear that the date of birth of the victim is 20/04/2002 and at the time
of the incident she was below 18 years.

Though the victim herself admitted that she had love affairs
with accused Galio Hussain and on the date of the occurrence accused came
with his friends and asked her to accompany him. On her refusal the accused
threatened her to upload a video in the social media.

In the instant case, it appears that there is no eye witness to
the occurrence as regards removing the girl from the house of the informant
and taking her to his house. But it is not denied that the prosecutrix, in fact,
found in the house of the accused and the family members of the accused
took her to Police Station and handed over her at the PS.

The prosecution was required to prove that the accused by
giving inducement or threatening or by any means forcefully compelled the
victim to accompany the accused. The prosecutrix in her evidence stated
that the accused compelled her to go with him by threatening to upload a
video in the social media but the Investigating agency could not bring this
aspect to light. The Investigating Officer could not recover any video that
may be lying in the mobile phone of the accused. Therefore, the evidence
that she was compelled by the accused to accompany him could not’ be
corroborated by any other believable material. Therefore, very basis of the
prosecution case that the accused had compelled the victim to accompany
the accused also appears to be doubtful.

11. PW3 is the sister of the prosecutrix. In her evidence she stated
that four months earlier at about 7:00 P.M. when she was sleeping inside her
house, the prosecutrix was watching T.V.. She got up and found her sister
missing. At about 12:00 P.M. her father was informed that the brother of the
accused handed over her sister at Agia P.S. Later on, her father brought back
her sister. In her cross-examination, she stated that she does not know how
his sister got missing.

The evidence of this witness is very clear that she does not
know under what circumstances her sister had gone missing . She remained
silent that the accused had taken her sister. Therefore, her evidence is of
littlke consequences.

12. PW4 stated that the informant is his nice . Four months earlier
the occurrence took place. His nice had love affairs with accused Galib
Hussain. He was informed by the sister of the prosecutrix that the prosecutrix
got missing. Later on, at about 12:00 A.M. at night time the family members
of the accused informed them that the accused had taken the prosecutrix.
Later on, O/C of Agia B.S. called the informant who brought the prosecutrix.
Though, the family members of Galib Hussain assured to hold a meeting but
no such meeting was held. For this his brother-in-law lodged the F.I.R. In
cross-examination he admitted that he went to the PS. on the next morning
and he does not know what had happened on the previous night.

The evidence witness clearly shows that he has got no personal
knowledge regarding missing of the prosecutrix and he only came to know
about the incident from others. Therefore, his evidence cannot support the
allegation that the victim was kidnapped by accused Galib Hussain and she
was forced to accompany the accused to his house.

13. PW5 is an independent witness. He stated that some six months
earlier at about 6:30 P.M. he saw accused Galib Hussain with his friend were
walking on the road and on being asked, the accused told him that he will
visit somebody’s house. At around 7:00 P.M. the informant came to his house
looking for his daughter but could not be found. Later on, they came to know
that the victim girl is at Agia PS. Later on, the victim was brought by him and
he came to know accused Galib had taken the prosecutrix.

The witness in his cross-examination stated that he has no
personal knowledge about the incident as he has not seen the occurrence. He
further stated that he does not know if accused had given any promise to
marry the prosecutrix. The evidence of this witness also could not prove that
the accused had removed the prosecutrix and compelled her to accompany
him. His evidence only shows that the prosecutrix got missing and she was
found at Agia P.S. from where the informant had brought her back.

14. PW6 is another independent witness who also stated that 5/6
years ago at around 6:00 P.M. he saw accused Galib Hussain in his village at
around 7:00 PM. The mother of the prosecutrix came looking for her
daughter. On inquiry, she came to know that the accused had taken the
prosecution to Chanmari. Later on, the father of the prosecutrix brought her
from the Agia PS.

15. PW7 ASI S. Nath stated that he was endorsed to investigate the
case by O/C, Krishnai P.S. and during the course of his investigation he visited
the P.O. and prepared the Sketch Map Ext.5. He also seized one school
certificate of the victim. After completion of investigation he submitted
Charge Sheet Ext.7. He also proved various exhibited documents. Ext. 6 is
the Seizure list.

PW1(informant) in his evidence remained silent as to when he
got the information regarding missing of his daughter. PW2 the prosecutrix in
her evidence stated that on the day of occurrence, she along with her sister
were present in the house. PW3 is the sister of the prosecutrix who stated
that on the day of occurrence she was sleeping and her sister(prosecutrix)
was watching T.V. She also remained silent that her parents was present in
the house. PW4 is also silent regarding the presence of the informant and his

wife.

In the instant Case the only evidence came from the victim of
the alleged incident who alleged that the accused forced her to accompany
him and she was taken to the house of the accused but none of the witnesses
has seen the accused having taken the victim to his house.

Though the victim alleged that she was forced by accused to
accompany him by threatening her to upload her video in the social media
but this aspect could not unearthed by prosecution.

The evidence on record shows that the victim was handed over
by the relatives of the accused at Agia P.S. The evidence shows that the
victim, in fact, reached the house of the accused and thereafter, she was
handed over at the P,.S. This itself shows that the relatives of the accused
were not happy in her present at the house’ of the accused. It is not
unexpected that the accused and his relatives will hand over the victim at
the PS. if she had been kidnapped by the accused. Therefore, the allegation
that the accused had taken the girl to the house of the accused Galib Hussain
appears to be doubtful.

From the evidence of the record it appears that the I/O has
seized one school certificate where in her date of birth of the victim is shown
on 20/04/2002 and on the date of the occurrence she was a minor girl. The
prosecution was primarily required to prove that the accused had forced the
victim to accompany him and she was taken to the house of the accused but
the evidence on record does not inspire confidence to accept the allegation
against the accused.

The victim and the complainant had alleged that the accused
had committed rape upon the victim but the evidence of the Medical Officer
clearly stated that she did not find any sign of recent sexual intercourse and
there is no sing of injury mark over the her body or her on private parts.
Thus, the medical evidence also clearly did not support the allegation of

rape committed upon the victim.

16. Considering the evidence as well as discussion above made, it
is found that prosecution has failed to bring home the charges against the
accused and the accused deserves to be acquitted and accordingly, he is
acquitted.

17. The bail bond of the accused stands cancelled after six month
from the judgment.
18. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 12‘ day of
June, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by:-

( Sri S. Hazarika, AJS,)
(Sanjay Hazarika, AJS) Spacial Judge, Goalpara.

Special Judge, Goalpara.

Typed by: Jajneswar Nr. Deb, Stenographer, Goalpara.
APPENDIX Special : 23/2018.

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW1 Solimuddin Sk.

Pw2-Prosecutrix.
PW3-Sanowar Begum
PW4-Mohibul Hoque
PW5-Talimul Islam
PW6-Subhan Ali
PW7-Dr.M.Lagachu
PW8-ASI Sukumar Nath.
PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :-

Ext.1 -School certificate of the victim.
Ext.2-164 Statement

Ext.-3-Medical Report.

Ext.4-FIR.

Ext.5-Sketch Map

Ext.6-Seizure list.

Ext.7-Charge Sheet.

DEFENCE WITNESS :-
NIL

DEFENCE EXHIBITS :-
NIL

( S. Hazarika, AJS)
Special Judge,Goalpara.

10
