1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present : Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Special 18/2018 corresponding to GR Case No.849/2018
& Borpathar Police Station Case No. 50 Under Section
363 of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act.
State of Assam

Versus

Shri Ajay Munda, Accused person

Name of informant/complainant: Smti Gangi Orang
Name of the accused person facing trial: Shri Ajay Munda
S/O Shri Sarua Munda alias Rowa Munda

Vill: Deopani Monkey Basti

P.S: Borpathar

District: Karbi Anglong.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the accused : Mr Jitu Paul, Legal Aid Counsel
Argument heard on : 04.12.2018

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 06.12.2018

JUDGMENT

1. It is a case of kidnapping of minor and penetrative
sexual assault alleged to have been committed by the

accused person.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 13.08.2018 the
informant, Smti Gangi Orang lodged an ejahar with

Borpathar Police Station stating inter alia that on that day
2|Page

at about 4:00 AM, her daughter- Smti Maina Orang aged
about 12 years went to pluck tea leaves from
Shubhenaswari Tea Estate. As she did not return till the
evening, they searched her and could know that Shri Ajoy
Munda resident of Deopani Bagan kidnapped her. On
receipt of the written ejahar, O/C, Borpathar Police Station
registered a criminal case vide Borpathar Police Station case
No.50/2018 U/S 363 of IPC and he himself took the charge
of investigation. On completion of the investigation, he
submitted charge-sheet being the I.O. of the case U/S 363
of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused

person.

On completion of appearance of the accused person
before this Court, copy was furnished to him. Having very
carefully gone through submissions of learned lawyers of
both sides as well as case diary, this Court found sufficient
grounds for presuming that the accused person had
committed the offence U/S 363 of IPC and section 4 of the
POCSO Act and accordingly, the charges were framed. The
particulars of the charged offences were duly read over and
explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty

and claimed to be tried.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many as
4(Four) witnesses including the informant and the alleged
victim. Accused person has been examined U/S 313 of
Cr.P.C. Defense examined none. Plea of defence is of total

denial.

Points for determination are

(i) Whether the accused person, Shri Ajay Munda on
13.08.2018 at about 4 AM at Shubhenaswari Tea Estate
under Borpathar PS Kidnapped Smti Maina Orang aged
3|Page

about 12 years out of keeping of the lawful guardianship
without his consent and that he thereby committed an
offense punishable U/S 363 of IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused person of the same date, time
and place caused penetrative sexual assault to Smti Maina
Orang aged 12 years and thereby committed an offense
punishable U/S 4 of the POCSO Act?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through the submissions of
learned lawyers of both sides as well as evidence on record.
In the very beginning, learned lawyer appearing on behalf
of the accused has submitted that the prosecution has
totally failed to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubts.
On the other hand, refuting the aforesaid submission,
learned Public Prosecutor, Mr D.K. Deka has submitted that
prosecution has duly succeeded in establishing its case.
Prior to forming an opinion on the rival submissions made
by the parties, I would like to give a glance at evidence on

record.

PW-1, Smti Gangi Orang deposed that she is the
informant of this case. The victim is her daughter. She
knows the accused person. The incident took place on a
Sunday in the year 2018. On the day of occurrence, the
victim went to the tea estate at 5:00 AM for plucking tea
leaves. As she did not come back home at noon hours, they
searched her here and there and from her friends they
could know that the accused, Ajay Munda eloped her. She
lodged an ejahar at Borpathar police station about the
incident. The victim got missing since Sunday morning and
on Monday she knew that the victim was staying in the

house of the accused. Although, she tried to bring back the
4|Page

10.

victim from the house of the accused but she failed. Then
she informed the police about the place of stay of the
victim. On the day itself, police recovered the victim from
the house of the accused and apprehended the accused.
The police took them to the police station. The police took
the victim to Diphu Civil Hospital for medical examination
and got her statement recorded in the Court. At the time of

occurrence, the victim was 13 years old.

PW-2, Smti Maina Orang deposed that the informant is
her mother. She knows the accused person. About two
months ago on a Sunday at 5:00 AM, she went to tea
estate for plucking tea leaves. On that day at about 5:00
PM, the accused met her and proposed that he would
marry her and take her to his house. She slept in that night
with the sister of the accused. On the subsequent day in
evening hours, her mother took her back from the house of
the accused and then instituted the case. The police caused
her medically examined and her statement recorded in the

Court. At present, she is living with her mother.

PW-3, Miss Priti Kheria deposed that she knows the
informant, the accused and the alleged victim. The incident
occurred in one year ago. As per her information, there was
a love affair between the victim and the accused person
and on the day of occurrence, the victim eloped with the
accused person. After a few days, she heard that the
accused and the victim were apprehended by police. She
and the victim belong to same age and both of them grew

up together.

PW-4, Dr. Atreyee Goswami deposed that on
14.08.2018 she was working at Diphu Civil Hospital as
Senior Medical and Health Officer. On that day, she
5|Page

11.

12.

examined Smti Maina Orang in connection with Borpathar
PS case No. 50/2018 and found no injury in her body. She
also found hymen absent and vagina admits one finger. She
also. deposed that according to the _ pathologist,
spermatozoa was not detected on the slide. Pregnancy test
was found to be negative and ultra sonographic test did not
Suggest any abnormality. According to the radiologist
report, age of the victim was below 16 years i.e 14-15
years. Ext. 1 is the medical report. Ext.1 (1) and Ext.1(2)

are her signature.

Let us at first see whether the victim is child in term of
the section 2(d) of the POCSO Act and minor. According to
the aforesaid section any person below the age of 18 years
is child. PW-1 is the mother of the victim who is considered
to be best person who can say when the victim born. She
has stated that at the time of the occurrence the victim was
13 years old. The evidence of the victim also shows that at
the time of occurrence, she was 13 years. PW-4 is medical
officer who examined the victim. Her evidence shows that
at the time of occurrence the victim was below 16 years i.e
14-15 years. The defence has not disputed the evidence of
PW-1 and PW-2 that at the time of occurred, the victim was
13 years. Basing on evidence of PW-4 I have come to
conclusion that at the time of occurrence the victim was
below 16 years. Hence it can be said that at the time of
occurrence the accused was child in term of the section
2(d) of the POCSO Act and minor girl.

In this case the victim is the star witness. Her evidence
shows that the accused to her to their house where she
was spent one night and that she slept there with the sister
of the accused. The defence has not disputed the evidence

of the victim that the accused took her to their house
6|Page

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

where she spent one night. There is no evidence that the
accused took away the victim without consent of her
parents. PW-1 who is the mother of the victim has clearly

stated that the victim was taken away without her consent.

The evidence of victim is silent that the accused made
penetrative sexual assault on her. Even though, the
evidence of the medical officer shows that there was no
evidence of recent intercourse. But it shows that hymen
was absent. The victim stated in her statement recorded
under section 164 of the CrPC that she had love affair with
the accused which was started 6 months prior to the
occurrence and once the accused made sexual intercourse
with her. Considering all aspects I there is doubt that the

accused made sexual intercourse with the victim.

Now I have come to conclusion that the prosecution has
succeeded to establish its case under section 363 of the IPC

against the accused person.

Order

In the result, I find that the accused guilty under section

363 IPC and accordingly he is convicted.

On the point of sentence the accused person is heard

and to that effect his statement is recorded.

From the statement it appears that accused is just
grown young man. There is no evidence on record showing
that the accused person was earlier convicted by the Court
of Law. It has been submitted by Ld. Defence counsel that
the accused is entitled to get leniency in sentencing him.
Taking all aspects into consideration I do hereby leniently

ask the accused person to suffer SI for 6(six) months and
7|Page

to pay fine of Rs. 500/- id SI for 15(fifteen) days. Set off
earlier detention period. Let a certified copy of the
Judgment be supply to the accused person at free of cost.

Accordingly, this case is disposed of on contest.

18. | Given under hand and seal of this court today, this the
06" day December, 2018.

Dictated and corrected by me.

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Dictation taken and

transcribed by me.

Stenographer Grade-I.
APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses:
PW-1 Smti. Gangi Urang.
PW-2 Victim.

PW-3 Miss Priti Kheria.
PW-4 Dr. Arteyee Goswami.

Defence witnesses: Nil.

Prosecution exhibits:
Ext.1- Medical report.

Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
8|Page
