IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: MORIGAON, ASSAM

Present: Sti S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions Judge cum Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam.

POCSO Case No. 22/2017
U/S 376(2)/506 IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act

State of Assam

-VS-

Sh. Bibek Roy @ Bibekananda
S/o Late Chasindra Roy

R/o Village- Singimari, Bilormur
P.O.- P.S. — Morigaon

ASSAM, aaeeeeeeeeeees Accused
Date of Charge : 01.11.2017.
Date of Evidence : 18.09.2018, 26.10.2018, 27.11.2018,
05.02.2019, 12.03.2019, 11.07.2019.
Date of S/D : 06.08.2019
Date of Argument : 07.01.2020
Date of Judgment : 21.01.2020

Judgment delivered on : 24.01.2020

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State :- Mr. A. Kalam, Spl PP, Morigaon.

Advocate for the Accused :- Mr. U. C. Roy, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 23.12.2015, Sri R Biswas
lodged a FIR with Morigaon Police Station alleging inter-alia that on 21.12.2015,
at about 1:00 PM, the accused called the victim ‘J’ (name withheld), aged about
8 years, daughter of the informant from the road and took her inside his house
and after locking the door, accused pulled the panty of the victim, laid her on
the bed and forcefully committed rape on the victim. The accused also

restrained the victim from disclosing the incident to others and gave Rs. 500/-
Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 1 of 17
for the same. The accused further criminally intimidated the victim for her life in
the event of disclosure of the incident to others. It is also mentioned in the FIR
that, prior to this also, the accused committed forceful sexual intercourse with
the victim by calling her to his house and sent her back by paying Rs. 20/- Rs.

25/- on such occasions.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Morigaon PS Case No. 358/2015 u/s 342/
376(2)(i)/506 IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and
investigated into. During investigation, the victim was medically examined and
statement of the victim was recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C and on completion of
investigation, the Investigating Officer (i/o) submitted charge sheet against the
accused Sh. Bibekananda Roy @ Bibek Roy for trial u/s 342/376(2)(i)/506 IPC
r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

3. It may be mentioned herein that during investigation, on
19.09.2016, the accused surrendered before this Court with a prayer for bail
but his prayer was rejected and he was remanded to judicial custody.
Subsequently, vide order dated 16.12.2016, the accused was allowed to go on
bail.

4. On 14.07.2017, charge sheet was laid before this Court. After
compelling attendance of accused, vide order dated 01.11.2017, charges u/s
376(2)/506 IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 were framed and
explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty. During trial,
prosecution has examined as many as eight witnesses including the Medical

officer and the Investigating Officer.

5. Upon completion of prosecution evidence, the accused was
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. The accused denied to adduce defence witness when
he was called upon to do so. The defence case is of total denial and false

implications.

6. I have gone through the record. Heard Mr. A. Kalam, learned
special public prosecutor appearing for the State and Mr. U. C. Roy, learned

defence counsel for the accused person. During arguments hearing, learned
Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 2 of 17
counsel for the accused has relied upon the reported case of (i) 2018 SC AJ
252 Dola @ Dolagobinda Pradhan and Anr. Versus State of Odisha & (ti) 2019
(1) GLT 17 Abhijit Dutta vs. State of Assam & Anr.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE:
7. (i) What is the age of the victim on the date of the alleged
occurrence?

(i) | Whether the victim was subjected to penetrative sexual assault by
the accused?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF
8. PW-1, Sri R Biswas, the informant of the case and father of the
victim, in his evidence deposed that on 21/12/2015 the victim was aged about
eight years. On that day, on returning home, seeing his daughter and wife were
weeping, on asking the victim told him that while she was going to the paddy
field to call him and while crossing the house of the accused, she was taken by
the accused to his house and after closing the door of the house, accused
removed her underwear and committed sexual intercourse with her. On
knowing this, he informed about the matter to the villagers, local woman
organization and VDP secretary of their village. In the meantime, the accused
fled away. As advised by villagers, he lodged the case before the police station.
There was two days delay in filing the case due to the assurance of the village
people to organize a meeting (Bichar). Exhibit 1 is the FIR lodged by him. In
cross-examination, PW 1 stated that the distance between his house and the
Morigaon P.S. would be about 3-4 km. The FIR was written by an advocate
named Salam. He has not cause of two days delay in lodging the said ejahar.
Houses of Bhimeswar Konwar, Dipak Bordoloi, Ranjit Bordoloi are located near
the house of accused. There are about fifteen households located in that area.
There is a Morapat Kheti between the house of accused and his house. The
family of the accused had lodged a rape case against him but after this case.
The house complex of the accused has a residential house and a kitchen
separately. On the day of the incident, he reached his home at about 1:30 PM.
At that time, he did not find any other persons in his house, apart from his wife
Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 3 of 17
and his daughter. VDP Secretary is Chandra Kanta Nath and the name of their
Gaon Burah is Hareswar Bordoloi. After the incident, he did not take his
daughter for any medical examination to the doctor. After the incident, he
informed about the incident to the Gaon Burah, VDP Secretary, Nigam Biswas,
Dhiren Sarkar, Keshab Master. No formal village Bichar was held with regard to
the incident. He has three children and victim is his youngest child. There is a
road in front of his house and people often commute on the road. Most of the
people in that area are cultivators. The accused is a married person and his
own daughter is little elder to victim. In the village, there are many children of
the age of victim and they often play together. He denied the defence
suggestion that victim did not tell him about any such incident as narrated by
him in his evidence. The Mahila Santha of their village to whom he informed
about the incident has members and he knows one of them, namely, Binu
Konwar. He denied the suggestion that as the rape case lodged upon him by
the family of the accused prior to this case and that due to said case lodged

upon him by the family of the accused, he has lodged the instant case.

9. PW-2, the victim in her evidence deposed that at the time of
incident she was eight years old. On that day, in the morning her father was in
the paddy field and she had gone to the field to call her father. On the way to
the field, when she was passing by the house of the accused, he told her to see
some movies on the mobile phone. Accordingly, she went to his house and
thereupon, accused put on the hook of the door of the house. Thereafter, the
accused threw her on the bed, gagged her mouth with a Gamocha. Then he
removed her pant and forcefully committed sexual intercourse (Beya Kaam) on
her. She got pain and cried. After some time, he gave her = 500/- and told her
that she should not tell about it to her parents and that if she does so, he
would kill her. At that time, the other family members of accused had gone to
the house of his relative (Mama). Then she went to her house and was crying.
Upon asking by her mother, she told about the incident. After some time, her
father came back from the field and then she told about the incident to her

father also. After few days, she was taken to the police station. The police took
Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 4 of 17
her to the doctor. The police also took her to the court where she stated before
the court. Exhibit 2 is her statement that she made before the court and Exhibit
2(1), 2(2) and 2(3) are her signatures thereon. In cross-examination, the victim
stated that in their locality, there are many children of her age. On the day of
the incident, when she had gone to the paddy field to call her father, she
cannot say as to in which direction she had gone. She does not remember as to
how many days after the incident the police had gone to her house. But the
police had come when they took her to doctor and court. On the day of the
incident, when she had gone to the paddy field to call her father, she was
wearing top, gown and pant. Near the house of the accused, house of
Rajkumar and two other houses are located at some distance. At the time of
the incident, when the accused was committing misdeed (Beya Kaam) upon
her, she was crying but no persons had come there. Due to misdeed by
accused, she had some bleeding. After the incident, she came back to her
house, wearing the same clothes, which she was wearing. She was given some
medicine by one Pradip Biswas. She denied the suggestion that she had not
stated before the police that her father was in the paddy field and she had gone
to the field to call her father; that when she was passing by the house of the
accused, he told her to see some movies on the mobile phone; that accused
gagged her mouth with a Gamocha. She denied the defence suggestion that
she has falsely deposed regarding taking her inside the house, gagging her
mouth, committing misdeed and paying Rs. 500/- and for criminal intimidation
by accused. She also denied that she has deposed in the court on the tutoring
of her parents. She also denied the suggestion that the accused did not commit

the misdeed (Beya Kaa) with her.

10. PW-3, Sh. Birkumar Roy in this evidence deposed that at the time
of the incident the victim was aged about 7-8 years. He came to know about
the incident but he does not know the details of what happened in that incident.

The defence declined to cross-examine him.

Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 5 of 17
11. PW-4, Smti. A. Biswas deposed, mother of the victim in her
evidence that at that time of inciendent, the victim was aged about 8 years. On
the day of the incident, the victim went out for looking her father in the field.
After sometime while she was cooking in the kitchen, the victim came home
crying and upon asking, she told her that while she was going to meet her
father, upon reaching near the house of the accused, the accused told her to
come to his house and watch TV. Accordingly, she went to his house and then
the accused closed the door and gagged her mouth and committed sexual
intercourse upon her. She stated that she examined her genitals and found
bleeding. Thereafter, she made her take bath. The victim further told her that
the accused gave her Rs. 500/- and told her not to tell about the incident to
anyone. Subsequently, she and her husband went to the Doctor and brought
some medicine for the victim. Thereafter, they took the matter to the Village
Ladies Organization and who told that they will try to do a B&ichar. In the
meantime the accused went missing from his house. Subsequently, her husband
lodged the instant case upon the accused. In cross-examination, she stated that
the distance between her house and the house of the accused is covered by
one Bigha Land. On the day of the incident, when her daughter had gone out to
the paddy field to meet her father, she came back to the house after about half
an hour. On the day of the incident, the victim was wearing a frock and an
under-pant beneath. She admitted that the victim was having bleeding from her
genitals, which has also stained her underwear and she had also washed it.
They had consulted doctor Pradeep for victim after the incident. She further
stated that after the victim came home crying after the incident, a little while
later, one Subhadra came to their house. The accused is not related to them in
any way. Her husband lodged the case two days after the incident. The distance
between their house and Morigaon police station and Morigaon Civil Hospital
would be about 4 kilometers. Vehicles travel on that road. She admitted that
one rape case was filed against her husband and they had requested for a
compromise in that case but other side did not agree. She denied the

suggestion that the accused was a witness in the said rape case. Police had not

Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 6 of 17
seized the under-pant or any other clothes of the victim. She had applied
medicines to the genital of the victim for one week. She denied the suggestion
that she falsely stated about the incident. She admitted that she had not given
the Rs. 500/- to the police which the accused had given to the victim after the
incident. Subhadra is the Secretary of the Mohila Samiti and the VDP secretary
is Chandra Nath. She denied the suggestion that she has falsely stated that they
had requested for a village bichar. She also denied the suggestion that the
accused is not involved in the incident. She denied the suggestion that they
have lodged a false case upon the accused due to the rape case lodged upon

her husband. Their case was lodged prior to the lodging of that case.

12. PW-5, Sh. Jatin Mandal in his evidence deposed that on
21.12.2015 and on that day, he was informed on telephone by R. Biswas (PW-
1) that accused had committed sexual intercourse with his minor daughter the
victim. Thereupon, he advised him to call for a village meeting to address the
issue. He also went to the house of the informant and talked with the victim
who told him that the accused called her from the road and took her to his
house and committed sexual intercourse upon her. The victim also told him that
the accused had done this on several occasions. She also told him that the
accused told her not to reveal the matter to anyone and that the accused used
to pay her some money from time to time after committing sexual intercourse.
In Cross-Examination, he stated that the distance between his house and the
house of the informant would be about 2 KMs. When the informant (PW-1)
telephoned him, he was at home and it was about 1 PM. He came to the house
of the informant on the next day and upon reaching there he found about 10-12
persons present there, but he does not know their names. The informant is his
younger brother in relation. On the day of the incident itself, the victim was
brought to the Morigaon Civil Hospital by police for medical examination. He
denied the suggestion that he did not state before the police that - She told his
that the accused called her from the road and took her to his house and
committed sexual intercourse upon her; that the accused had done this on

several occasions; that the accused told her not to reveal the matter to anyone;
Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 7 of 17
that the accused used to pay her some money from time to time after
committing sexual intercourse. He also denied the suggestion that he has falsely
deposed about the incident by accused. The wife of the accused had lodged a
rape case against the informant R. Biswas. This case was lodged around the
same time after lodging of the case by R. Biswas. He stated that he has stated
about the commission of sexual intercourse upon the victim by the accused on
the basis of what he was told by R. Biswas (PW-1).

13. PW-6, Samsul Alam, the Investigating Officer in his evidence
deposed that during investigation of Morigaon PS Case No. 358/2015 he visited
the place of occurrence, drew a sketch map ( Ext. 3), examined the victim and
thereafter also forwarded her to the court for recording her statement before
the Magistrate. Ext. 2 is the said statement of the victim recorded before the
Magistrate. Though he had searched for the accused but could not find him.
Later, he collected the Medical Report of the victim. In Cross-Examination, PW 6
deposed that as per the ejahar, the date of occurrence is 21.12.2015 and the
case was registered on 23.12.2015. He has not found any GD Entry in his case
diary regarding the incident between 21.12.2015 and 23.12.2015. Reason for
delay of 2 days in lodging the same was not mentioned in the FIR. There is no
evidence of any village b/char regarding the incident. He had not recorded the
statement of VDP Secretary Chandra Kanta Nath and the Gaonburha Hareswar
Bordoloi. He has also not recorded the statements of persons namely,
Bhimeswar Konwar, Dipak Bordoloi and Ranjit Bordoloi. He has also not
recorded the statement of any person Subhadra. He admitted that witness Jatin
Mandal (PW-5) did not state before him that he had heard about the incident
from the victim. He also admitted that said witness Jatin Mandal (PW-5) did not
state before him that - She told him that the accused called her from the road
and took her to his house and committed sexual intercourse upon her; the
accused had done this on several occasions; that the accused told her not to
reveal the matter to anyone; that the accused used to pay her some money
from time to time after committing sexual intercourse. He did not seize any

clothes etc, including any undergarments from them. During investigation, he
Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 8 of 17
did not examine any pharmacist or indigenous village doctor. The informant side
had not submitted before him any prescription etc. for the period from
21.12.2015 to 23.12.2015. During investigation, he collected the Medical Report

of the victim from the Morigaon Civil Hospital, Morigaon.

14. PW-7, Sh. Kamakhya Mishra, another Investigating Officer in his
evidence deposed that on taking charge of further investigation, finding that the
investigation was almost completed, he after recording the statement of the
accused who was in jail custody submitted charge-sheet against the accused
u/s 342/376(2)(i)/506 IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act. Ext. 4 is the charge-
sheet. In cross-examination, he stated that he received the case diary from his
Officer-in-Charge on 20.09.2016. He had not visited the place of occurrence. He
submitted the charge-sheet on 19.11.2016.

15. PW-8, Dr. Nashrin Ahmed who conducted the medical examination
of the victim in her evidence deposed that that on 23.12.2015, she examined
victim ‘J’ D/o Sh. R Biswas in connection with Morigaon PS case No. 358/2015,
who came to her with history of rape upon her by Vivek Roy on 21.12.2015 at
12.30 PM. She also recorded that there were attempts of rape upon the victim
by the accused on several occasions before. On examination, she did not find
any external or internal injury. The test of vaginal smear gave negative test for
spermatozoa. Urine test for pregnancy was found to be negative. The Medical
Officer opined that at the time of examination there was no evidence of recent
sexual intercourse. There was no evidence of recent internal or external injury.
Clinically the age of the victim was 11 to 12 years. She exhibited the Medical
Report vide Ext. 5 and her signature thereon vide Ext. 5(1). In cross-
examination, the Medical Officer stated that during examination, the vaginal
hymen was found to be intact. The genital parts of a girl of 11 to 12 years of
age would be comparatively softer. In case of any injury on the genital parts, it
would be found during the examination. Such injuries, if any, could be present

for 4-5 days. During examination no redness or inflammation was found on the

Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 9 of 17
genitals of the patient. She stated that in case of commission of rape on such a

girl, the vaginal hymen would most probably be absent.

16. Point No. I: So far, the age of the victim is concerned, PW-1,
father of the victim, in his evidence claims that at the time of the incident, his
daughter was aged about 8 years. Similarly, PW-4, the mother of the victim,
PW-3 a neighbor and PW-2, the victim herself claims her age as 8 years. No
challenge was made by the accused side regarding the age. The Medical Officer
however, in her evidence stated that age of the victim was about 11 to 12
years. No other documents were collected by the Investigating Officer
regarding the age of the victim. Under these circumstances, considering that
the parents of the victim are the best persons to say about the age of their
daughter, I held that, at the time of the incident, the victim was about aged 8

years.

17. Point No. II So far the alleged incident of penetrative sexual
assault on the victim is concerned, it appears that PW-1 and PW-4, parents of
the victim came to know about the incident from the victim who after return
from the house of the accused informed the matter to them. Upon looking at
the evidence of the victim as narrated herein before, it appears that on that
day, while she was going to the paddy field to call her father, the accused
called her to his house on the plea of showing some movies on the mobile
phone and thereafter, she was taken inside the house, door was closed and
after gagging her mouth with a gamocha, her panty was removed and forceful
intercourse was committed. This part of evidence is corroborated by PW-1 and
PW-4, the parents of the victim. However, the medical evidence as mentioned
here-in-before do not support the same as no injury was found in the private
part of the victim. It may be mentioned herein that the incident took place on
21.12.2015, at about 1:00 PM, and the victim was examined by the Medical
Officer on 23.12.2015, at 2:30 PM i.e. almost after 50 hours. Though in the
evidence, PW-7 has mentioned the date of examination as 20.09.2016 but on

looking at the Ext. 5, the date of examination is mentioned as 23.12.2015. On

Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 10 of 17
looking at the Medico-legal Report, it appears that at the time of the
examination of the victim, said Medical Officer did not find evidence of recent
sexual intercourse and no evidence was found regarding any injury on the
private part of the victim. In her cross-examination, the Medical Officer has
stated that in case of any injury on genital parts of the age of victim, it would
be found during examination and such injury can be present for 4 - 5 days. She
also did not find any redness or inflammation in the genitals of the victim.
Moreover, in case of commission of rape on such girl, the vaginal hymen would

be found absent but in this case same was found intact.

18. If we look at the evidence of PW-4, the mother of the victim, it
appears that after return of the victim from the house of the accused, she
found bleeding from the vagina and then she and her husband brought some
medicine from doctor. In her cross-examination, PW-4 admitted that, she had
applied medicines to the genitals of the victim for one week. This part of the
evidence of the mother of the victim clearly contradicts the evidence of the
Medical Officer as discussed earlier. It may be mentioned here that at the time
of the examination of the victim, the Medical Officer recorded history of
penetrative sexual assault on the victim and as such, it can be presumed that
she has examined the victim carefully. Thus, non finding any injury mark on the
genitals of the victim who was aged about 8 years inspite of alleged forceful
penetrative sexual assault by the accused who was apparently aged about 36
years old at the time of the incident clearly casts serious doubt on the

allegation of penetrative sexual assault.

19. It may be mentioned herein that it is in the FIR and also in the
evidence of the victim that prior to the incident of 21.12.2015, on earlier 2-3
occasions the accused used to take her to his house and forcible penetrative
sexual assault was made on the victim. Had that been so, certainly the Medical
Officer could not have found the hymen intact. Though, to become an offence
of penetrative sexual assault even putting of the penis into libia majora can be

amount to rape, but in this case the evidence is of forceful penetration on 3 - 4

Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 11 of 17
occasions. Under that facts and circumstances, not getting injury is a vital

aspect.

20. Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Sadashiv Ramrao
Hadbe v. State of Maharashtra, (2006) 10 SCC 92 observed as follows:

"9. It is true that in a rape case the accused could be convicted on the
sole testimony of the victim, if it is capable of inspiring confidence in
the mind of the court. If the version given by the victim is unsupported
by any medical evidence or the whole surrounding circurnstances are
highly improbable and belie the case set up by the victim, the court
shall not act on the solitary evidence of the victim. The courts shall be
extremely careful in accepting the sole testimony of the victim when the
entire case Is improbable and unlikely to happen.”

21. This case was relied in the case of Dola @ Dolagobinda Pradhan
and Anr. Versus State of Odisha [2018 SC AJ 252] as relied by learned

counsel for defence.

22. Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the case of K. Venkateshwarlu
v. State of A.P., (2012) 8 SCC 73

"9. Several child witnesses have been relied upon in this case. The
evidence of a child witness has to be subjected to closest scrutiny and
can be accepted only if the court comes to the conclusion that the child
understands the question put to him and he is capable of giving rational
answers (see Section 118 of the Evidence Act). A child witness, by
reason of his tender age, Is a pliable witness. He can be tutored easily
either by threat, coercion or inducement. Therefore, the court must be
satistied that the attendant circumstances do not show that the child
was acting under the influence of someone or was under a threat or
coercion. Evidence of a child witness can be relied upon if the court,
with its expertise and ability to evaluate the evidence, comes to the
conclusion that the child is not tutored and his evidence has a ring of
truth. It is safe and prudent to look for corroboration for the evidence
of a child witness from the other evidence on record, because while
giving evidence a child may give scope to his imagination and
exaggerate his version or may develop cold feet and not tell the truth
or may repeat what he has been asked to say not knowing the
consequences of his deposition in the court. Careful evaluation of the

Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 12 of 17
evidence of a child witness in the background and context of other
evidence on record is a must before the court decides to rely upon it.”

23. This case was relied in the case of Abhijeet Dutta Versus State of
Assam [2019 (1) GLT 17] as relied by learned counsel for defence.

24. Apart from the above, if we look at the evidence of the victim, it
appears that in her evidence during trial, she stated that the accused threw her
on bed, gagged her mouth with a gamocha and he removed her panty.
However, on looking at the statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr. PC, it
appears that the accused asked her to sleep on the bed and on asking to open
her panty, she on her own opened her panty and thereafter penetration was
done on her vagina. In her 164 Cr.P.C statement, she is totally silent regarding
throwing her on the bed, gagging her mouth with a gamocha and removing her
pant by the accused. This part of evidence shows inconsistency in evidence as

to how the incident happened.

25. Apart from the above, it is in the FIR that after committing the
penetrative sexual assault on 21.12.2015, the accused gave Rs. 500/- to the
victim so as not to disclose the incident to other. However, PW-1 is totally silent
regarding payment of Rs. 500/- on that day. The victim is also silent regarding
payment on that day. However, PW-4, mother of the victim has stated that
upon return of the victim, she told her that the accused gave her Rs. 500/- for
not to tell the incident to other. In cross-examination, she admitted that she did
not give the Rs. 500/- to police which was given to her daughter. The victim in
her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C, however told different facts on this
point. According to her, after the incident dated 21.12.2015, she was allowed to
go back her home. The victim admitted that the accused paid Rs. 500/- ten
days back at the time of doing penetrative sexual assault on the first occasion.
Thereafter, she was subjected to penetrative sexual assault on other 2 - 3

occasions for which she was paid Rs. 20/- on each day by the accused.

26. All this above discrepancies in evidence clearly shows that the

victim who was the best witness, has deviated from her previous statements on

Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 13 of 17
material points and thereby makes herself unbelievable and untrustworthy

evidence.

27. Section 29 of Pocso Act provides for drawing of presumption
about truthfulness of the evidence of the victim. Hon’ble Gauhati High Court in
the case of Latu Das Vs State of Assam (Crl. Appeal (J) No. 55 of 2018)
decided on 29.10.2019 has interpreted Section 29 as follows ................000

24, We also take note of the presumption under Section 29 of the
POCSO Act which provides that when a person is prosecuted for
committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
Section 3, 5, 7 and section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall
presume that such person has committed or abetted or attempted
to commit the offence as the case may be, unless the contrary Is
proved. The above statutory presumption, which a Court is bound
to raise in a prosecution for offence under Section 3, 5, 7 and 9, of
the POCSO Act put a reverse burden on the accused, which is an
exception to the general principle of criminal justice, that burden to
prove the guilt beyond reasonable doubt lies on the prosecution,
and the accused has a right to remain silent. The statutory
presumption under Section 29 of the POCSO Act creates a
restriction on the accused's right to remain silent. Because once
there are adequate material for raising a presumption under Section
29 of the PCSO Act, the special court is justified in recording
conviction on the basis of such presumption, unless the accused
rebut, the presumption, or proves the contrary, to what was/were
the basis of raising presumption.

25. However, one must bear in mind that presumption is not in itself
evidence, it is only inference of fact drawn from other Known or
proved facts; and as such, in order to draw a presumption,
statutory or otherwise, there must be existence of proved facts,
from which a presumption can be raised. Therefore, presumption
under Section 29 of the POCSO Act, does not absolve the
prosecution from its usual burden to prove the guilt of the accused
beyond reasonable doubt. It only lessen its burden to some extent
and put a corresponding burden on the accused. Initial burden in a
criminal case Is always on the prosecution to bring on record
reasonable evidence and materials to prove that the accusation
brought against the accused is true. Once such evidence or

Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 14 of 17
materials are brought on record prima facie establishing the case of
the prosecution, then only the Court is obliged to raise presumption
under Section 29 of the POCSO Act and in that situation only the
burden stands shifted to the accused to rebut the presumption. If
the accused fails to rebut the presumption, Court is justified to hold
the accused guilty of offence under Section 3, 5, 7 & 9 of the
POCSO Act.”

28. Keeping the above interpretation of law in mind, if we turn to the
case in hand, in view of the discussions made here-in-above, I am of the
opinion that Section 29 of the POCSO Act, 2012 cannot be applied in this case
to draw a presumption regarding truthfulness of the evidence of the victim.
Considering the infirmities as discussed, I am of the opinion that presumption
stands rebutted and the prosecution has to prove the allegation beyond

reasonable doubt.

29. Looking at the evidence for proving the case beyond reasonable
doubt, from the evidence, it appears that after the incident, the matter was
informed to the villagers particularly Mahila Samity members but none of them
were brought on record. PW-3, the neighbor of the victim and the accused
appears to know some incident but he admitted that he does not know details
as to what happened in the incident. PW-5 in his evidence, though stated that
he heard from the victim about the incident, but the victim remained silent
regarding informing to the PW-5. Even the Investigating Officer has claimed
that PW-5 has not stated before him about hearing the incident from the victim.
As such, PW 5 has exaggerated his evidence from his previous statement.
Subhadra, the Mahila Samilty secretary who came to the house of victim just
after the alleged incident, the local doctor Pradeep who provided medicine to
the victim were not produced before court for evidence and no reason was
shown for their non examination certainly amount to withholding material

evidence.

30. It is the prosecution case that soon after the incident, the

informant has informed the matter to the woman organization existing in the

village and also informed the matter to the VDP Secretary of the village but
Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 15 of 17
none of them was examined by police as witness. No evidence was laid to show
that any village meeting was called on this incident. This fact was admitted by
the Investigating Officer. During investigation he did not find any evidence of
village meeting. Under these circumstances, delay of two days in filing the FIR
more particularly when the police station is at a distance of 3-4 KM from the

house of the informant, casts serious doubt on the prosecution story.

31. Apart from the above, admittedly on the allegations of rape by the
informant, an FIR was lodged against him by the accused and this fact was
admitted by the witnesses particularly PW-3 and PW-5. As such, possibility of

false implications against the accused cannot be totally ruled out.

32. From the above discussion, I am of the opinion that in this case,
prosecution has failed to bring home the charges against the accused beyond

reasonable doubt and the accused is entitled for benefit for doubt.

33. Consequently, accused Sri Bibekananda Roy @ Bibek Roy is
acquitted from the charges u/s 376(2)/506 IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
2012 and set at liberty forthwith.

34. Bail bond executed by the accused and his surety are extended for
another six months from today U/S 437-A Cr.P.C.

35. Considering the nature of the case, the matter is not referred to
DLSA for granting compensation U/S 357 A Cr.P.C.

36. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Morigaon U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

37. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on
contest. Due to absence of accused on 21.01.2020 and same is delivered today

in presence of accused.
Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 24" day of
January, 2020.

Special Judge,
Morigaon:

Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 16 of 17
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses :

P.W.1 - Sri R Biswas (Informant).
P.W.2 - Victim ‘J’.
P.W.3 - Birkumar Roy.
P.W. 4 - Smt. A. Biswas.
P.W.5 - Sh. Jatin Mandal.
P.W. 6 - Sh. Samsul Alam. (1/0)
P.W. 7 - Sh. Kamakhya Mishra. (I/O)
P.W. 8 - Dr. Nashrin Ahmed (MO)

2. Defence witnesses~ - None

3. Court witnesses - None

4. Exhibits by prosecution:

Exbt. 1 - Ejahar.

Exbt. 2 - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Exbt. 3 - Sketch map.

Exbt. 4 - Charge sheet.

Exbt. 5 - Medical Report.

Special Judge,
Morigaon

Pocso Case No. 22/2017 Page 17 of 17
