IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Bilasipara
Special (POCSO) Case No- 20 of 2019
u/s 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act
State of Assam
-Vs-
Aizul Ali @ Azizur Rahman

eseees accused person

Date of framing charge ‘= 01-10-2019
Date of recording evidence _ :- 19-10-2019
Date of Argument 23-10-2019
Date of Judgment ‘ 23-10-2019

Advocates Appeared:

For the State of Assam :- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam

For the defence :- Mr. Abdul Mannan,

Ld. Advocate for the defence.
JUDGMENT

1. This case is under section 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act. So, the name of the victim is not mentioned and she is,
hereinafter, referred to ‘x’.

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Rustom Ali, the informant
lodged an ezahar with the Bilasipara police station on 25-06-2019 informing
that ‘x’ is the daughter of the informant. On 25-06-2019 in the afternoon,

Contd. to page no.-2
[2]

the informant and his wife Basia Bibi were not at their house. Taking the
advantage of their absence, the accused Aizul Ali went to their house, closed
the door of the house and committed sexual intercourse on ‘x’. The
informant’s wife Basia Bibi arrived their house. She heard the scream of ‘x’
and she started to raise hue and cry. The villagers went there. The accused
ran away.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused.
3. The Bilasipara police station received the ezahar and registered as
Bilasipara police station case no. 634/2019 u/s 376 (2)(3) I.P.C read with
section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The case was
investigated and having found prima facie under section 8 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act against the accused Aizul Ali @ Azizur
Rahman, laid the charge sheet before the court for trial.
4. The accused Aizul Ali @ Azizur Rahman hereinafter called the
accused, appeared in this case and he was furnished copy. Charge was
framed u/s 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, POCSO in
short, against the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the
accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined 4 (four) witnesses, namely-

1. Rustom Ali P.W-1
2. Basia Khatun P.W-2
3. Asiruddin Mondal P.W-3
4. ‘x’/ the victim P.W-4
6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was

recorded where he denied all allegations levelled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution and also declined to adduce evidence in

defence.
7. Heard argument for both sides.
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i. Whether accused on 25-06-2019 at about 04.00 P.M at village

Udmari Pt. V under Bilasipara police station, committed sexual

Contd. to page no.-3
[3]

assault on ‘x’, aged about 13 years old, by touching her breast and
thereby committed offence u/s 8 of POCSO Act?

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF
9. In this prosecution case P.W-1 Rustom Ali is the informant, P.W-2
Basia Khatun is the wife of P.W-1, P.W-3 Asiruddin Mondal is the
independent witness and P.W-4 ‘x’ is the alleged victim.
10. Since P.W-1 Rustom Ali is the informant and P.W-4 ‘x’ is the alleged
victim, so, both are the prime witnesses in this case. Now let us see the
evidence of this two witnesses at first.

P.W-1 Rustom Ali has stated in his evidence that he is the informant
in this case. He lodged the case against the accused. The occurrence took
place 3/4 months ago (from the date of adducing his evidence on 19-10-
2019). On the day of occurrence he was not at his house. He went to
Bilasipara. ‘x’ is his daughter , she was 17 years old at the time of
occurrence. On the day of occurrence at about 04.00 P.M, his daughter ‘x’
was talking with the accused at road. His wife saw it and had quarrel with
the accused. When he went to his house, he heard about the said
altercation. He, thereafter, lodged the ezahar against the accused. Ext-1 is
the said ezahar. Except altercation between the accused and his wife, there
had happened nothing.

In his cross P.W-1 has stated that he did not know what was scribed

in the ezahar.
11. P.W-4 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that informant is her father and
she knows the accused. On the day of occurrence, she was talking with
Azizur Rahman at road. Her mother went there and saw both of them talking
there. Her mother told her father about the occurrence. Her father became
wrath with her and he lodged the ezahar against the accused. Her parents
misunderstood them. The accused committed no sexual act on her. The
accused neither touch her breast nor touched her hand. The accused did
not put off her garment. Accused did not attempt to commit sexual
intercourse on her. She gave her statement before the Magistrate, Ext-2 is
the said statement, Ext-2 (1) is her signature.

In her cross P.W-4 has stated that she forgot what she stated in her

statement Ext-2.

Contd. to page no.-4
[4]

12. Thus, minute scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-4, it appears
that P.W-1 being the informant has stated that he lodged the ezahar Ext-1
when he heard about the altercation between his wife and the accused, but
he did not know what was written in the ezahar, Ext-1. He denied to occur
anything except altercation. So, the evidence of P.W-1 is clear that he
lodged the ezahar when he heard about the altercation between the accused
and his wife. He denied to do anything on his daughter by the accused.

This evidence of P.W-1 is supported by P.W-4 ‘x’. P.W-4 evinced
clearly that she was talking with the accused at road. When her mother saw
them, she informed her father and her father lodged the ezahar. P.W-4 has
vehemently denied to do anything else on her by the accused. She denied to
touch her breast by the accused. She denied to do anything by the accused
on her.

So, both P.W-1 and P.W-4 have adduced evidence not incriminating
the accused. The evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-4 is not inculpatory against the
accused. There is no evidence that the accused touched the breast or hand
of ‘x’. There is no evidence that the accused did anything to commit rape on
‘x’.

13. Now let us see the evidence of P.W-2 and P.W-3.

P.W-2 Basia Khatun has stated in her evidence that on the day of
occurrence her daughter ‘x’ was talking with the accused. There was noise
raised by the villagers. When her husband returned, she told her husband
and he lodged the ezahar against the accused.

In her cross P.W-2 has stated that it was mere misunderstanding
with the accused.

14. P.W-3 Asiruddin Mondal has stated in his evidence that he knows
nothing about the occurrence.

Cross examination of P.W-3 was declined by the defence.

15. Thus, the evidence of P.W-2 and P.W-3 is not incriminating against
the accused. According to P.W-2, she found ‘x’ and the accused engaged in
talking. There was hue and cry when ‘x’ and the accused were talking. When
she informed her husband, he lodged the ezahar against the accused. Thus
the evidence of P.W-2 is not incriminating against the accused. P.W-3 had

no knowledge about the occurrence. The evidences of P.W-2 and P.W-3 do

Contd. to page no.-5
[5]

not inspire the confidence to believe that the accused did anything else on
x’.
16. Thus, the prosecution evidence is not sufficient and reliable to prove
the offences as alleged against the accused. The prosecution evidence is
found dearth of merit.
17. The prosecution has failed to prove it’s case u/s 8 of POCSO Act
against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
18. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 8 of POCSO Act.
19. Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

The bail bond of accused stands cancelled and the bailor is
discharged from all liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 23 day of
October, 2019 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)
Special Judge, Bilasipara
Transcribed & typed by,

S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. III.

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

P.W-1 Rustom Ali
P.W-2 Basia Khatun
P.W-3 Asiruddin Mondal
P.W-4 ‘x’/ the victim

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-

Ext-1 Ezahar,
Ext-2 Statement of ‘x’ recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

Contd. to page no.-6
DEFENCE WITNESS
DEFENCE EXHIBITS
COURT WITNESS

COURT EXHIBITS

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

[6]

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
