-

a

>

 

\\s
xe

a ae a”
ward
3 yao ,

oe

,

riiittt  CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

Special(P) Case No. D)/2018
U/S 366 IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Vs.
Sri Prasanta Ray @ Jaydhar Ray .......... Accused

PRESENT: Sri D.J. Mahanta,
Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.

ADVOCATES APPEARED:

For the State : Sri D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Md. N.I. Siddique, La. Advocate

Date of Evidence =: 20.04.18, 04.05.18, 18.07.18
06.08.18, 07.08.18

Date of Argument: 06.09.2018
Date of Judgment : 18.09.2018

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 18.12.2017, the
informant Subhash Das lodged an FIR before Dhaligaon P.S. alleging that on
07.12.2017 at about 3 P.M., accused Prasanta Ray, taking advantage of
absence of other members in the house, called Miss *X’ (name is withheld), 15
years old daughter of the informant and a student of Class VIII of Chaprakata
M.E. School over phone to Chaprakata Market and took her to the house of
one Nakul Ray of Amguri, Abhayapuri, uncle of the accused and committed
rape on the victim there at night. It was alleged that on the next day, the

accused took the victim to his sister's house at Kabaitari, Jogighopa and took
Aen
swore ot

gn®

2
Od

shelter thereon for the night and thereafter, his sister took the accused and
victim to his house for handing over them to his parents but the father of the
accused drove away the accused and victim. Thereafter, both of them took
shelter in the house of one Ratan Sarkar, the maternal uncle of the accused at
Dongsapara for five days.

2: After receiving the FIR, the O/C of Dhaligaon P.S. registered a
case being numbered as Dhaligaon P.S. Case No. 252/17 U/S 376 IPC R/W
Section 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted ASI Sankar Patgiri to take pre-step and
entrusted S.I. Bhaben Das to complete the investigation of the case.
Accordingly, the Investigating Officer arrested the accused, visited the place of
occurrence, drew sketch map of the P.O., recorded the statement of the
witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got recorded her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C, collected the medical report and after completion of
investigation, SI Surajit Sarkar submitted charge-sheet against the accused
Prasanta Ray @ Jaydhar Ray U/S 6 of POCSO Act. After receiving charge
sheet, copies of relevant documents were furnished to the accused person.
Accused person was produced from jail. On perusal of entire materials on
record and hearing both sides and after having found a prima facie case,
formal charge U/S 366 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act was framed
against the accused. Charge was read over and explained to the accused to
which he denied to plead guilty. Later on, accused person was released on bail

after framing charge.

3. In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as

10 (ten) witnesses.
Following witnesses were examined:-

(1) Victim Miss ‘Xx’ (name is withheld) as PW 1
(2) Sri Subhash Das as PW 2

(3) Smt. Sabitri Bala Das as PW 3

(4) Sri Chandan Kr. Das as PW 4

(5) Smt. Reba Bati Das as PW 5

(6) Sri Boloram Das as PW 6
(7) Smt. Kalyani Das as PW 7

(8) Sri Babu Arjya as PW 8

(9) Dr. Meena Hazarika (M.O.) as PW 9
(10) ASI Sankar Patgiri (1.0.) as PW 10

4. FIR was exhibited as Ext. 1. Statement of the victim U/S 164
Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext. 2. Medical report was exhibited as Ext.3. Seizure
list was exhibited as Ext.4, sketch map was exhibited as Ext.5 and charge-
sheet was exhibited as Ext.6. School certificate of the victim was exhibited as
Material Ext.1.

3. Defence plea is of total denial. Statement of accused was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Defence adduced no evidence.

6. Heard argument from both sides. I have perused the entire
evidence on record. I have also considered the statement of the accused

recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. I have also perused the case law supplied by learned

defence counsel.

7. POINTS FOR CONSIDERATION:-
| \>
a\ For the offence U/S 366 of IPC
. yoo ot
\
fh 1. Whether on 07.12.2017, at Khusulupara under Dhaligaon P.S.,
core
a the accused kidnapped Miss 'X’ (name is withheld), minor

daughter of the informant from her home and induced her to

illicit intercourse with him ?

For the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act

2. Whether on 07.12.2017, at Khusulupara under Dhaligaon P.S.,
the accused kidnapped Miss ‘Xx’ (name is withheld), minor
daughter of the informant and took her to Amguri and

committed penetrative sexual assault upon her?
DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

8. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record regarding above mentioned both points simultaneously for the sake

of convenience.

9. The allegation leveled in FIR against the accused is that he
induced the victim girl to go with him and after that he committed sexual
intercourse with her for which charge-sheet was filed against him U/S 376 IPC
R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act. Charge was framed U/S 366 IPC R/W Section 4
of POCSO Act.

10. PW 1 is the victim, who deposed that she met the accused prior
to the incident and on the date of occurrence, at about 3.00 P.M., accused
called her with a promise to marry. Both of them went to Abhayapuri and
stayed in the house of one Nakul Ray, paternal uncle of the accused. On next
day, accused took her to his maternal uncle. During her stay in the house of
the maternal uncle of the accused, the later committed sexual intercourse with
her. She further deposed that when she was taken in a Maruti vehicle, on the

way, the accused committed sexual intercourse with her within a jungle. She

further deposed that accused took her to maternal uncle as well as her

paternal aunt. On the way, he committed sexual intercourse. This witness
stated before this Court that during the time of investigation, she had given a
statement before the Magistrate which was exhibited as Ext.2. I have gone
through her statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. In her said statement, victim
stated that on 07.12.17, accused asked her to come to Chaprakata Bazar from
where they went to Abhayapuri. They stayed in the house of the paternal
grandfather of the accused. On next day, they stayed at the house of the
sister of the accused situated at Kabaitari. After that she was taken to the
house of the accused. She further stated that when she stayed with the
accused, the later made physical relation with her forcefully. She did not state
the place specifically on which the accused committed sexual intercourse with
her. On the other hand, she stated before this Court that accused committed
sexual intercourse in different places. In this regard, mother of the victim was

examined as PW 3, who deposed that accused committed sexual intercourse
when they were staying in the house of the friend of the accused. The victim
did not state before the Magistrate as well as before this Court that they had
stayed in the house of any friend of the accused. PW 1 deposed that she told
entire incident to her mother (PW 3) but her mother deposed that accused
and victim stayed in the house of the friend of the accused. So, evidence
given by PW 3 is not believable.

11. PW 2 is the father of the victim, who lodged the FIR. This
witness stated that at the time of occurrence, age of the victim was about 15
years. Accused often visited their house prior to the incident. He knew from
the villagers that accused took his daughter and they stayed in the house of
the maternal uncle of the accused namely, Ratan Sarkar. His daughter
informed him that she went with the accused to the house of Ratan Sarkar.
According to PW 2, victim did not state what was done by accused during
their stay in the house of Ratan Sarkar. From the evidence of PW 2, it is found
that nothing was stated by PW 1 regarding sexual intercourse as committed
by accused to the informant. During the cross-examination, victim clearly
stated that there was love affection between her and accused. She further
deposed that accused touched her private part over ‘salwar’. PW 3, during her
cross-examination, stated that she could not recollect the date of birth of the
victim. She exhibited the certificate issued by Headmaster, Chaprakata M.V.
School as Material Ext.1. I have gone through the said document. It is found
that certificate was issued after the date of incident. This fact was confirmed
by the I.0. (PW 10). During his cross-examination, 1.0. deposed that
occurrence took place on 07.12.17 and FIR was lodged on 18.12.17 and
Material Ext.1 was issued by the School authority on 20.12.2017.

12. Medical Officer was examined as PW 9. She deposed that
radiological examination was advised but not done by the party. From the

clinical observation, age of the victim could not be determined.

13. PW 8 is the brother-in-law of the victim. He deposed that at the
time of occurrence, age of the victim was about 15 to 16 years. She was
reading in Class IX and she failed two times in lower classes. According to PW
8, there was love affection between the accused and victim. On the date of
\
}

, =o

occurrence, victim left her house silently without informing anyone. On the
date of occurrence, at night, son of the maternal uncle of the accused
informed the father of the victim that victim was residing with the accused at
Abhayapuri in the house of the uncle of the accused. On next day, accused
and victim took shelter in the house of the maternal uncle of the accused. PW
8 met the victim in the house of Ratan Sarkar, the maternal uncle of the
accused. Then victim told him that she came with the accused as she loved
him. According to PW 8, at present, accused married the victim and both of
them are living together as husband and wife. He clearly stated that age of
the victim was above 17 years and she eloped with the accused according to
her own will. He further deposed that parents of the victim tried to marry her
with the accused but guardian of accused was not agreed for which case was
lodged.

14. Pw 4, PW 5 and PW 6 heard about the incident. These
witnesses clearly stated that there was love affection between the accused

and victim and victim eloped with the accused.

15. PW 7 Kalyani Das stated that on the date of occurrence, victim

was missing for which her mother came to her home and searched the victim.

an She also searched different places. On the night of missing, son of Ratan
we? A ao" Sarkar told her that the victim was residing with the accused. This witness
Be

also stated that guardian of the accused did not accept the relationship. As
guardian of the accused did not allow the victim and accused to stay in their
home for which they took shelter in the house of Ratan Sarkar, maternal uncle

of the accused.

16. 1.0. was examined as PW 10, who deposed that he seized
school certificate which was issued by Headmaster, M.V. School but he did not
visit the L.P. School in which victim first started her study. He did not
determine the age of the victim either radiological examination or by any

inquiry.

17. After going through the entire evidence on record, I have found

that age of the victim was not ascertained during the time of investigation.
gv

AS
ac
yoo 0%

- on

yar?

Material Ext.1 is nothing but a certificate issued by Headmaster of M.V. School
after the date of occurrence. No any birth certificate or school certificate from
L.P. School was collected by the I.0. So, age of the victim was not properly
determined by the I.0. Radiological examination was also not done during the
time of medical examination. Therefore, doctor could not opine about the age
of the victim. PW 8 deposed that age of the victim was about 17 years. The
victim herself stated different story regarding alleged sexual intercourse. She
stated that accused committed sexual intercourse on the way within the
jungle but this fact was not stated by her before the Magistrate when she
gave statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. During the cross-examination, victim stated
that accused touched her private part only over ‘salwar’. So, victim
exaggerated the story by stating that accused committed sexual intercourse in
different places. The informant did not know whether accused committed any
sexual intercourse with his daughter or not. Mother also stated a different
story that accused committed sexual intercourse with the victim in the house
of the friend of the accused but it was not revealed from the evidence of the
victim that she stayed with the accused in his friend’s house. PW 8 stated that
victim went with the accused according to her own will and due to love
affection; they stayed in the house of maternal uncle of the accused. It is also
revealed that during trial accused married the victim and both of them have
been living together as husband and wife. To attract section 4 of POCSO Act,
prosecution must have to prove the penetrative sexual assault committed by
accused. In present case at hand, it is not proved beyond doubt that accused
committed sexual intercourse with the victim in any particular place. On the
other hand, it is found that victim went with the accused according to her own
will. She came from her home to Chaprakata as stated by her before the
Magistrate. It is not proved that accused called her over telephone.
Investigating Officer did not collect any call details report at relevant point of
time in between the accused and victim. No any ocular evidence was found in
this regard. This fact was not stated specifically by the victim during her
statement before the Magistrate. It is found from entire evidence on record
that due to love affairs accused and victim took shelter in different places and
family members of the accused did not allow the accused to marry the victim.

On the other hand, as stated by PW 8, family members of the victim tried to
marry her with the accused. As marriage was not performed for which this FIR
was lodged by the PW 2 after 3 days. This delay reflects that he knew that
due to love affairs his daughter eloped with the accused. This also reflected
from the subsequent conduct of the victim. At present, victim is living with the
accused as husband and wife. So, criminal intention or mens rea as required
to attract any criminal offence, on the part of the accused is not proved in this
case. Therefore, accused cannot be booked for the offences mentioned above.
Ingredient of section 366 IPC is not proved. It is also not proved that accused
committed sexual intercourse with the victim. So, both points mentioned

above are remained as not proved. Accused is not found guilty.

ORDER

18. Prosecution failed to prove the case U/S 366 IPC R/W Section 4
of POCSO Act against accused Sri Prasanta Ray @ Jaydhar Ray. Accused is
acquitted and set at liberty. He is directed to furnish bail bond of Rs. 10,000/-
with one suitable surety of the like amount for a period of six months as

required U/S 437(A) Cr.P.C. Till then, he is allowed to remain in previous bail.

19. A copy of the Judgment shall be given to the District

Magistrate, Chirang for information.

20. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 18" day
of September, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

=~

a (a{ Al
(D.J. Mahanta)

SRecin IHdge,
chiALaTgaigaon
Dictated and corrected by me, =
iA
(D.J. Mahanta)
Special Judgeae.

co ajaigaon

KK KKK
APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Victim Miss ‘xX’ (name is withheld)
PW 2 — Sri Subhash Das

PW 3 — Smt. Sabitri Bala Das

PW 4 — Sri Chandan Kr. Das

PW 5 — Smt. Reba Bati Das

PW 6 — Sri Boloram Das

PW 7 — Smt. Kalyani Das

PW 8 — Sri Babu Arjya

PW 9 — Dr. Meena Hazarika (M.O.)

PW 10 — ASI Sankar Patgiri (I.0.)

Exhibit (Prosecution):

Ext-1 FIR

Ext-2 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-3 Medical report

Ext-4 Seizure list

Ext-5 Sketch map

Ext-6 Charge-sheet

Material Exhibit (Prosecution):
Material Ext-1 School certificate of the victim
Defence Witness:

Nil.

Defence Exhibit:

Nil.

A-aall

(D.J. Mahanta)

Special Judge,

chirdeg! me
