 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,

Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 67 (M) of 2017

U/s 4 OF POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM —__eacaeccecceeseeeeeeeenes Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Ranjit Gogoi @ Suma
S/o- Lt. Binud Gogoi
R/o- Das para, IOCL (A.O.D) Quarter No. 218
P.S- Digboi
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM ok. eeeeeeeeeee tees eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal
Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the Complainant

Sri Naba Phukan
Advocat@  —__hiasaueveveueeueueees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 31.03.2018

Date of Judgment: 31.03.2018

U D GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1; The prosecution case against the accused is that on
the day of occurrence at about 5.30 PM, the accused
deceitfully took the 8 years old daughter of the informant into
the jungle and thereafter he had put his penis into her mouth
and also inserted his penis into her anus.

2. After registration of the case, the victim girl was
subjected to medical examination. The doctor did not find
any injury upon the person of the victim girl. However, the
doctor opined that the victim girl was between 5-8 years of
age.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

3. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed penetrative sexual

assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as three
witnesses. The witnesses examined in this case are the victim
girl and her parents. | have carefully gone through the
prosecution evidences. The defence plea is total denial.
5. The first witness in this case is the mother of the victim
girl. She has stated that on the day of occurrence, at about
5.30 PM, she along with her husband had returned home
from market. She has stated that she did not find her
daughter in the house; therefore, she searched the locality by
shouting her name. The mother has stated that on hearing
her voice, her daughter came out from the jungle situated
behind her house. The mother has also stated that her
daughter informed her that the accused had inserted his
penis into her mouth and also inserted it into her anus.

6. During the cross examination, the mother of the victim
girl has stated before the defence counsel that her daughter
is not mentally healthy and she forgets many things and that
is the reason why she could not pursue her studies properly.
The mother of the victim girl has admitted that whatever her
daughter told her might not be true.

7. The other witness in this case is the father of the
victim girl. His evidence is similar to that of the mother of the
victim girl. The father of the victim girl has also stated before
the defence counsel that his daughter might be telling lies.

8. The victim girl has stated before the defence counsel
that the accused took her to the jungle and laid her on the
ground. According to the victim girl, the accused thereafter
beat her with a stick and also pressed her neck. The victim
girl has stated that when she had heard the voice of her
mother, she immediately ran away from the place of
occurrence. Before the defence counsel the victim girl has
stated that the accused did nothing to her.
9. In this case, the victim girl gave her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C, wherein she supported the prosecution case against
the accused. But, after going through the evidence of the
victim girl, | find that she spoke something else in this court.
Thus, | have two statements before me. In my considered
opinion, the evidence of the victim girl failed to inspire
confidence to the effect that she is not a reliable witness. The
victim is the only eye witness to the occurrence. Since her
evidence failed to inspire confidence and since she is found
to be unreliable, | find that the evidence of the other
witnesses have lost its relevance. Now, | have reasons to hold
that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the offence
against the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

10. That being the position, the accused Ranjit Gogoi @
Suma is found not guilty and accordingly the accused is
acquitted from this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
31st day of March, 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge
Tinsukia (P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Smti Dipamoni Handiquq
2. PW2 - Smti Monisha Handique
3. PW3 - Sri Pronab Handique

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1- Ejahar

2. Ext. 2- Seizure list

3. M.Ext.1- The seized chain of bead.
DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
