ie

oo

8
we

 

<
ae”

Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/18

SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 29/18
(u/s 8 of POCSO Act 2012)

State of Assam
-versus-
Samiran Tahbildar ........... Accused

Present- Smti. M.C. Bordoloi, M.A., L.L.B., (A.J.S.),
Special Judge, Baksa

Appearance:
Mr. Ranjit Chetri......... cece Public Prosecutor for the State

Swamdan Dewry, Amrit Boro......Advocates for the accused person

Date of charge: 06-04-2019.

Date of Evidence: 03-09-2019, 06-01-2020.

Statement recorded on: 27-02-2020.

Date of Argument: 27-02-2020.

Date of judgment: 28-02-2020.
Judgment

One Jonali Borah resident of Village Ambari, Dist. Baksa lodged an ejahar
with the Mushalpur P.S on 13.10.2017 alleging inter alia that on 11.10.2017 at
about 1.50 pm, the accused Samiran Tahbildar sexually assaulted her minor
daughter during her absence at home. Hence, the ejahar.

Upon receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered vide Mushalpur P.S
Case No. 101/17 u/s 4 of POCSO Act and investigated upon.

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/18 2

After completion of investigation, charge-sheet being No. 68/17 dated
30.11.2017 was laid before the Ld. CJM, Baksa which was forwarded to the
Hon'ble Sessions Judge, Baksa who having taken cognizance of the offence
issued summons to secure the presence of the accused in court and on
appearance of the accused serviced copies of the material documents of the
case, to the accused in compliance of the provisions of Section 207 Cr.PC. Having
found prima-facie materials u/s 8 of the POCSO Act, the Hon’ble Sessions Judge,
Baksa vide order dated 06.04.2019 framed a formal charge u/s 8 of the POCSO
Act against the accused. The charge on being read over and explained to the
accused, he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

It deserves mention herein that the defence side took the plea of insanity
and his consequent inability to take defence in the case. Thereafter, the Hon’ble
Sessions Judge after an exhaustive inquiry came to a conclusion that the accused
was not mentally unsound and only suffered from mild mental retardation and
that he was capable of standing trial and accordingly trial proceeded against the
accused.

It is also worthwhile to mention herein that consequent to the designation
of the instant court as the Special court for trial of POCSO cases by the Hon’bie
Gauhati High Court vide notification dated 02.01.2020, the instant case was
received in this court for disposal.

The prosecution in order to prove its case, examined 4 witnesses
including the victim girl. The defence side cross-examined all the prosecution
witnesses but declined to adduce evidence. The statement of the accused u/s
313 Cr.PC was recorded and kept in the case record. The accused pleaded
complete innocence.

The defence plea is that of total denial of guilt.

ARGUMENTS
Heard the arguments forwarded by the Ld. Counsels of both sides. Ld. PP,
Baksa submits that the court shall pass judgment/order after perusal of the case
record in its entirety.

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/18 3

Ld. Defence Counsel submits that the accused is innocent and prosecution
has failed to establish the charge brought against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt. Ld. Defence Counsel prays for acquittal of the accused.

Heard. Perused C/R and the evidence on record meticulously.

The point for determination that has arisen in the instant case is as
follows:-

POINT FOR DETERMINATION:
a) Whether on the 11" day of October 2017, at about 1.50 pm, the
accused committed sexual assault on the Informant’s 6 years old minor
daughter at village Ambarl under Mushalpur Police Station?

My decision on the above points for determination along with reasons is

given hereinunder.
DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:

To address the point for determination so framed, it will be necessary to
peruse the evidence on record and I proceed to do so.

PW-1 Manuranjan Talukdar in his evidence stated that the occurrence
took place about 2 years back from his deposing in court and that at that time
the family members of the victim girl were tenants of the accused person. PW-1
also stated that he heard that the accused committed sexual intercourse with the
victim girl.

In his cross-examination, PW-1 revealed that he had not seen the
occurrence.

PW-2 Smt. Jonali Borah is the informant of the case. PW-2 deposed that
the occurrence took place in the year 2017 and that on the fateful day, she and
her husband were absent at the house and the victim girl was alone in the
house. She stated that, on her return, the victim girl told her that the accused
touched her body and accordingly, she approached the accused to inquire about
the incident. PW-2 further deposed that the accused is not a mentally stable
person for which she could not get satisfactory answer on askance and that she
was compelled to file the ejahar as the local public raised hue and cry. PW-2 also
revealed that she was a tenant of the accused at the relevant time and that the

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/18 4

police sent the victim girl for her medical examination and to court for recording
her statement. She further stated that the victim was 7 years old at the time of
occurrence.

PW-2 identified the ejahar filed by her as Ext-1 and her signature thereon
as Ext.1(1). She also identified the medical report of the victim as Ext.2 and her
signatures thereon as Ext.2(1) and Ext.2(2)

In her cross-examination, PW-2 revealed that she had not written the
ejahar by herself and that she had filed the case due to pressure from the local
public.

PW-3 is the victim girl(name withheld). PW-3 in her deposition stated that
the accused had physically assaulted her. She further deposed that at the time of
the incident, her mother (PW-2) was not present at the house and that after her
mother returned back home, she reported to her about the incident and
thereafter her mother (PW-2) filed the case. PW-3 went on to state that after
filing of the case, police came and apprehended the accused and that police took
her to hospital for medical examination and to court for recording her statement.

During her cross-examination, PW-3 stated that she does not know if the
accused was mentally not stable.

PW-4 Tapon Borah is the husband of PW-2(informant) and the father of
the victim girl. PW-4 deposed that on the fateful day of the incident, he was not
present at his house and that after his return to home, he came to know about
the incident. PW-4 also stated that his wife(PW-2) told him that the accused had
committed some bad act on the victim girl in her absence and thereafter, his wife
(PW-2) filed the case. PW-4 went on to state that the victim girl was 6 years old
at the time of occurrence and that he was a tenant of the accused at the time of
occurrence.

In his cross-examination, PW-4 stated that he and PW-2 (informant) had
no knowledge about the incident and due to pressure from local public the case
was filed.

This is the evidence available on record.

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/18 5

In the present case, the accused stands charged u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.
The evidence of the victim and the informant who were examined as PW-3 and
PW-2 respectively thus assumes importance in the present case.

PW-2 in her evidence stated that her victim daughter by gesture reported
to her that the accused touched her body and that the said fact could not be
ascertained by asking the accused person as he was not a mentally stable
person. PW-2 also disclosed that as the local public raised a lot of hue and cry,
she was compelled to file the ejahar. PW-2 reaffirmed in her cross-examination
that she did not want to lodge the “ejahar” and only due to public outcry, she
had lodged the “ejahar”. The informant therefore do not support the case of
sexual assault on her victim daughter rather she had stated that accused had
only touched her minor child. She did not indicate in her evidence whether the
said “touch” had any sexual overtones or not.

Now coming to the evidence of the child witness (PW-3), it is seen that
the Hon'ble Sessions Judge cum Special Judge, Baksa had recorded the evidence
of the said witness after ascertaining her capacity to depose, after being satisfied
that, she could give rational answers to the questions asked. The minor victim
disclosed that the accused assaulted her on her hand and that at the relevant
time her mother was not present at the home and that she reported it to her
mother, whereupon her mother filed the case. Even in the evidence of the victim
child, there is nothing to fix the culpability on the accused. She had stated that
the accused had only hit her hand.

This evidence of the victim is not indicative of whether the accused
intended to make any sexual advances on her or not.

Now coming to the evidence of PW-1 and PW-4 it is seen that they do not
have knowledge about the occurrence and their evidence is simply hearsay and
their evidence would not come to the aid of the prosecution.

The evidence on record is not sufficient to hold that the accused had
committed the offence of sexual assault on the victim girl.

Prosecution has failed to establish the charge u/s 8 of the POCSO Act
against accused Samiran Tahbildar beyond all reasonable doubt.

The point for determination stands answered in the negative.

Contd...
Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/18 6

In the above facts and circumstances of the case, compensation to the

victim is not justified.

Order
° In the light of the above discussions, accused Samiran Tahbildar is
Y « acquitted of the charges u/s 8 of the POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.
0? The bail bond of the accused person shall remain in force for a period of 6
Ra: months with effect from today in view of the provisions of Section 437-A Cr.PC.
Given under my hand and seal of this court on the 28" day of February,

2020.
J é af Qoao
eci

(Smti. M.C. Bordologe [20a
Baksa, Mushalpur

 

Special Judge, Baksa

Dictated and corrected by me

Mtn, — — asfa/agae

(Smti. M.C. Bordoloisp

a, Mushalpur
Special Judge, Bake?. ks

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/18

PW1
PW2
PW3
PW4

Ext.2(1) and Ext.2(2

Manuranjan Talukdar.
Jonali Borah(informant).
victim(name withheld).
Tapon Borah.

FIR.

Signature of Jonali Borah.

Medical report of the victim.

Signatures of Jonali Borah.

Nil.

Nil.

Nil.

f g 4 Oy ,0a0
(Smti. M.C. Bordoloi) asia Judge
ipur

Special Judge, BaksB@ks@. Mushailp
