IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

 

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 30 (DH)/ 2018.
U/S 4 of POCSO Act.

(G.R. Case No.217/2018 (DMJ), Dhemaji P.S. Case No.88/2018 Under Section
366(A) of IPC reads with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act )

The State of Assam
- Versus —

Shri Nitul@ LuhitGogoi, in. een. Accused Person
S/O Lt. Katia Gogoi, :

R/O Chowkham Gaon,

P.S. Dhemaji,

Dist.- Dhemaji.

Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,

PUG PO cae vccennns For the State
Shri K.C. Sonowal, Advocate & —_............ For the Accused
Smti Beuty Phukan, Advocate.

Date of prosecution evidence : 05-09-2018,

Date of arguments : 05-09-2018

Date of Judgment : 17-09-2018.

 
JUDGMENT

i, The prosecution case in brief is that on 07-03-2018
complainant- Smti Monju Daflary lodged an ejahar with Dhemaji Police
Station alleging interalia that on 06-03-2018 at about 4.30 AM in the
afternoon while her minor daughter-Smti Darshana Daflary went to her
friend’s house for social visit, the accused Nitul Gogoi kidnapped/abducted
her (victim) from Amulguri CHariali and took her to his house on a motor
cycle. It is also mentioned in the ejahar that on 07-03-2018 her daughter-
informed her by Mobile Phone No. 9678650072 that she (victim) was kept
confined in the house of accused Nitul Gogoi and asked them to rescue her.

zs On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused-Nitul Gogoi @ Luhit Gogoi u/s 366(A)/34 of IPC
R/W section 8 of the POCSO Act.

5 On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charge u/s 366/34 of IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO
Act and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined five witnesses. At the
closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused was recorded
u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, statement of the
accused was recorded u/s 323 of Cr.P.C. Accused adduced no evidence in his
defence.

4.Points for determination:-

 

(1) That, on 06-03-2018 at about 4.30 PM At No.1 Ghtyari Gaon
under Dhemaji Police Station you kidnapped/abducted Smti Darshana
Daflary, a minor girl aged about 16 years from Amulguri Chariali with
intent that she might be compelled to Marry you against her will or
that she might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby
you committed an offence punishable u/s 366 of IPC.

(2) That you, on 11-11-2017 at about 3.30 AM at night at
Village-Kapahua under Dhemaji Police Station, committed penetrative
sexual assault on Smti Lalita Das, a minor girl aged about 17 years and
thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

a I have gone through the evidence on record and heard

arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

 

6. PW1 Smti Darsana Daflary stated that complainant is her
mother. She knows accused Nitul @ Lohit Gogoi. The incident took place
about six months back. She got introduced to the accused through one of her
friend name dituporna. On the relevant date of occurrence she went out with
her friend Junumoni to roam about. On the way they met the accused. Then
she accompanied the accused on his motor bike to his house. She stayed
there during night. As she did not come back home her parents were worried
and lodged complaint before police. Accused did not physically abuse her.
Police got her medically examined. She was also produced before Magistrate

for recording her statement.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that she has no objection if

the accused is acquitted in this case.

7\ PW2 Smti Manju Daflary stated that she is the complainant.
She know accused Nitul @ Lohit Gogoi. Victim Darsana Daflary is her
daughter.The incident took place about six months back. Her daughter got
introduced to the accused through one of her friend name Rituporna. On the
relevant date of occurrence she went out with her friend Dhunumoni to roam

about. On the way she met the accused. Then she accompanied the accused

 
Dhemajl.

on his motor bike to his house. She stayed there during night. As she did not
come back home they were worried and lodged complaint before police.
Accused did not physically abuse her. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is her
signature.

In cross- examination PW2 stated that she has no objection if
the accused is acquitted in this case.

8. PW3 Smti Dhunumoni Sonowal stated that she knows the
complainant and accused Nitul @ Lohit Gogoi. Victim Darsana Daflary is her
friend. The incident took place about six months back. Darsana got
introduced to the accused through her. On the relevant date of occurrence
she went out with her to roam about. On the way they met the accused.
Then she accompanied the accused on his motor bike to his house. She
stayed there during night. As she did not come back home her parents were
worried and lodged complaint before police.

9, PW4 Smti Banti Daflary stated that she knows the complainant
and accused Nitul @ Lohit Gogoi. She also know victim Darsana Daflary. She
heard that one day Darsana did not come back home and then her parents
lodged complaint before police.

10. PWS5 Smti Juli Daflary stated that she knows the complainant
and accused Nitul @ Lohit Gogoi. She also knows the victim Darsana Daflary.
she heard that one day Darsana did not come back home and then her
parents lodged complaint before police. She know nothing about the incident.

Appreciation of evidence :
11. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that

in this case the victim and her mother-Smti Manju Daflary were examined as
P.W-1, PW2 respectively. In their evidence these two vital witnesses stated
that on the day of occurrence the victim went with her friend Junmoni to

 
roam about. On the way, they met the accused. Then the Victim
accompanied the accused on his motor bike to his house and she stayed
there during night. As the victim did not come back home her parents were
worried and lodged complaint before the Police. They further stated that the
accused did not physically abuse the victim. Police got her medically
examined and produced her before the Magistrate for recording her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. In cross-examination both PWs-1 and 2 stated that
they have no objection if the accused is acquitted in this case.

12. PW3 Smti Dhunumoni Sonowal stated that the victim Darsana
Daflary is her friend. Darsana got introduced to the accused through her. She
stated that on the day of occurrence Darsana went out with her to roam
about. On the way, they met the accused and then she (Darsana)
accompanied the accused on his motor bike to his house and Darsana stayed
the night in the house of the accused. As she (victim) did not come back
home, her parents worried and lodged complaint before Police. PW4 Smti
Banti Daflary and PW5 Smti Juli Daflariy stated that one day the victim
Darsana Daflary did not come back home and then her parents lodged
complaint before police. They know nothing about the incident.

13. From the evidence of prosecution witnesses, it is seen that the
parties have compromised the case outside the court and hence, they are not
willing to proceed against the accused. Prosecution side declined to examine
the remaining witnesses on the ground that examination of other witnesses

will not improve the prosecution case at all.

14. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences. This is a case of no evidence. I find that the prosecution
has totally failed to prove the charge u/s 366 of IPC read with Section- 4 of
the POCSO Act against the accused.

 
15. In view of the above, I find the accused-Nitul Gogoi @ Luhit
Gogoi not guilty of the charges u/s 366 of IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act
leveled against him. Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charges leveled

against him.

Set him at liberty forthwith.

16. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
‘7. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 17%
day of September/ 2018.

wn" ir

S. Das )

 

 
