  

Page 1 of 5

 

Present:-

A
Speciat Judge
Charaideo, Senari

¥i9I RiCls CHARAIDEO
IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE: CHARAIDEO: SONARI
Syed Imdadur Rahman, AJS.

SPECIAL JUDGE
The 20" day of November, 2018.

SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 10 OF 2018

Under Section

4 of the Protection of Children
eet rrotection of Children
from Sexual offences Act, 2012.

Read With

376(1) of the Indian Penal Code.

State of Assam
-Versus-
1. Sri Dilip Karmakar.

wicca anne Accused Person.
Accused Person.

 

 

This case was taken up for final hearing on 15.11.2018 in the presence of

Sri Basanta GOGOL csscisrsevccs Advocate for prosecution side,
Sri Junumoni Boragohai............ Advocate of the accused,
F.I.R was lodged on sreitis: §25,02.2013.
Charge framed on srisssitts §30.07.2018.
Argument Heard on stersseiti: §=15,.11.2018.
Judgment Delivered ON iets: §=20.11.2018.
Page 2 of §

 

JUDGMENT

 

In this case the accused person is facing
trial under section 4 of the P.O.C.S.O act
2012, and alternatively Under Section
376(i) I.P.C

1, The case of the prosecution is that, the accused Sri Dilip Karmakar, on
24/02/13 at 12 noon, came to the house of the informant, with the pretext to put
air in to his cycle, and committed rape on the minor sister of the informant. That,
the accused also threatened the victm.

2, That, after this incident, the informant filed an ejahar before the
Tingalibam Police Outpost. Later on a case was registered in this regard, before the
Sonari Police Station, bearing its P.S case no 55/13. Police after investigation
forwarded chare sheet U/S 366(F) I.P.C against the accused person. Thereafter,
CaS€ Was committed and charge U/S 4 POCSO act 2012 read with 376(i) I.P.C was
framed against the accused person. The charge was read over and explained to the
accused person, to which he, pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
Prosecution examined 2 witnesses.

dh The accused person was examined U/S 313 Cr.p.c, where he denied the
case of the prosecution. The accused person examined no witness. I have heard
arguments put forwarded by both sides.

4. Points For Determination in this case are:-
eR eermination in this case are:-

i) Whether the accused on 24/02/2013, committed penetrative
sexual assault on the sister of the informant Sri Dilip Garh, who was below 18 years
at that time?

spots Judge

Char-'a0, Sonari
zi0 - 0, Sonar

 

Page 3 of 5

 

ii) and alternatively, whether the accused on 24/02/13,
committed rape on the minor sister of the informant, who at that time was 16 years
old?

a DISCUSSION DECISION AND REASONS FOR THE DECISION

Let us now, discuss evidences on record, concerning the points for
determination of this case. In this case the alleged victim was examined as P.W2,
the P.W2 in her evidence deposed that, informant is her brother. That, the incident
took place 07 years ago at 10 A.M. That, she was alone in her house and then
accused came, for which she got frightened. That, her brother lodged this case in
vain. That, nothing happened. In cross examination this P.W deposed that, accused
is not guilty of anything.

I have considered the evidence of the alleged victim. The alleged victim in
her evidence deposed that accused is not guilty.

6, Here in this case the P.W1 is the brother of the alleged victim and he in
evidence deposed that, he knows the accused. That, victim is his sister. That, the
incident took place 07 years ago. That, he was not present at he time of the
incident. That, after coming to his house he came to know that, accused came,
earlier. That, no incident took place. In the cross examination this P.W deposed
that, out of anger, he lodged this false case.

I have considered the evidence of the P.W1/informant/brother of the
victim and the P.W2 i.e. the victim. They both in evidence deposed that no incident
took place, Through the evidence the informant and the P.w2 as witness failed to
place any specific evidence concerning any of the point for determination, rather it
is yielded from there evidence that no incident took place.

7. I have considered evidences of the P.W1 and P.W2 and found that, they
never adduced any evidence from which it can be gathered that accused is liable to
Page 4 of 5

 

the alleged incident. The alleged victim, her father never deposed anything
conserning any of the points for determination.

8. I have considered the evidences on record, which includes the evidence of
the prosecutrix and I find that, there is no iota of evidence to bring the accused
person within the ambit of section 376(1) of I.P.C or section 4 of the POCSO act,
2012 as the alleged victim and other witness never deposed anything in evidence
against the accused, concerning any of the points for determination. Here in this
case the prosecution has failed to adduce any evidence basing on which we can
held that, prosecution has proved the case beyond all reasonable doubt.

9. This being the position of this case, in opinion of this court, prosecution
has failed to prove the case against the accused person and accordingly the
accused Sri Dilip Karmakar is acquitted from the offences he is facing trial. He is set
at liberty forth with. Bail bond executed by the accused is extended as per provision
437(A) Cr.P.C. In opinion of this court there is no circumstance to invoke section
357(A) of Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 20" day of
November 2018.

Aerie
(ShRehmancge }
Charaideo, Scnari
Additional Sessions Judge.
Charaideo, Sonari.

 

 
Page 5 of 5

 

Appendix

Prosecution Witnesses.
SI. 1---- Prosecution Witness 1 ---Shri Dilip Garh.
SI. 2---- Prosecution Witness 2 ---Alleged victim.

 

Prosecution Exhibits,

Sl. 1---- F.LR.

SI. 1(1)- Signature of the informant.
Defence witness.

Nil.

Defence Exhibit.

Nil

 

Gu alse

PE Mhige
Charaideo, Sonari

Additional Sessions Judge
Charaideo.
