CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 17/16

Informant: | Smti. Mamun Das,
W/o- Sri Anupam Das,
R/o- Gandhinagar,
PS- Dibrugarh,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Dhaniram Tanti,
S/o- Late Arkit Tanti,
R/o- Gandhinagar,
PS- Dibrugarh,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
For the Defence: Mr. A Rob, learned Legal Aid Counsel.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 17/16
G.R. Case No. 05/16

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Dhaniram Tanti

Charges: Under Section 6 read with Section 5(m) of the POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on _ : 08-06-16, 04-07-16, 01-08-16, 28-11-16 & 09-08-17.
Date of argument : 22-08-17.
Date of Judgment —_: 19-09-17.

1)

2)

JUDGMENT

A brief account of this case is that on 01-01-16, at about 11:30 am, Sri
Dhaniram Tanti (hereinafter the accused) committed rape on the eight years
old victim X in the absence of her parents. He took the victim to a vacant
house and committed rape on her. On that day, Smti. Mamata Karmakar who
witnessed the incident charged against the accused and the accused fled. An
ejahar regarding this incident was lodged by the victim’s mother Smti.
Mamun Das (hereinafter the complainant). A GD Entry was registered as
Milan Nagar OP GDE No. 12 dtd. 01-01-16 and the FIR was forwarded to the
Officer-in-charge of Dibrugarh Police Station for registration of a case. The
FIR was registered as Dibrugarh PS Case No. 4/16 and investigation
commenced. The investigating officer (IO in short) went to the place of
occurrence and recorded the statements of the witnesses and forwarded the
victim for medical examination and also for recording her statement under
Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC in short). On finding
prima facie materials, Charge-Sheet was laid against the accused under
Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(POCSO in short).

On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both

the sides, a formal charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act was framed,
3)

4)

5)

6)

7)

read over and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and
claimed innocence.
To substantiate the case, the prosecution adduced the evidence of nine
witnesses including the medical officer (MO in short), Judicial Magistrate, 1*
Class and the IO. The accused cross-examined the witnesses in defence. On
the circumstances arising against him, the accused was questioned under
Section 313 CrPC and the accused pleaded innocence.
I have heard the arguments submitted by both the sides.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION:

1. Whether on 01-01-16, 11:30 am, the accused committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the eight years
old minor victim?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:
The alleged victim X who is only eight years old deposed as PW-1 that the
accused is her neighbour. On the day of incident, she was playing on the road
in front of her house and then the accused called her and when she refused
to go with him, the accused dragged her to an abandoned house. He spread
a gunny bag on the floor and made her lie on the gunny bag. He removed
her panty and also his own pant and inserted his penis into her vagina. She
could not scream as he gagged her with the palm of his hand. Meanwhile,
the sister-in-law of her father and her maternal aunt arrived at the place of
occurrence and assaulted the accused. Then she returned to her house and
the accused fled away. The police apprehended him. The police forwarded
her to the Magistrate for recording her statement. She was also forwarded to
Assam Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh for her medical examination.
Ext. 1 is her statement before the Magistrate and Ext. 1(1) and Ext. 1(2) are
her signatures.

In her cross-examination, she stated that her mother was absent at the time
of incident, because her mother was on duty.

The evidence of PW-1 is corroborated and supported by the evidence of
complainant. The victim's mother Smti. Mamun Das testified as PW-2 that the
accused is a resident of Gandhi Nagar. The incident took place on 01-01-16.
On that day, she went for work at about 8:30 am. At that time, her daughter
X and her elder sister Mala Mech and her sister Mamta Karmakar were in her

house. At about 11:00 am, her sister informed her over phone that an
8)

9)

unfortunate incident took place and she was asked to return to her house
immediately. When she returned home, her sister informed her that her
daughter X was taken by the accused to an abandoned house. They also
informed her that they caught the accused red-handed lying atop her
daughter’s body on the floor of the abandoned house. She also noticed that
the accused was held captive by her neighbours. When she asked her
daughter, her daughter informed her that the accused dragged her forcefully
while she was playing in front of her house and committed bad work by
removing her panty and also by removing his own pant. Then she checked
the private part of her daughter and noticed some white fluid, but there was
no blood. PW-2 further testified that the accused probably attempted to
commit penetrative sexual intercourse, but could not complete the act, as her
sister arrived and rescued her daughter. Her daughter was eight years at the
time of the incident. The accused fled away from the scene and she narrated
about the incident before the person in the police station who wrote the FIR
and she affixed her signature on the FIR. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext. 2(1) is her
signature. She also took her daughter to the police station and the police
recorded their statements. The police forwarded her daughter to Assam
Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh for medical examination and also to the
Magistrate for recording her statement. She also accompanied her daughter
to the Court. During investigation, the police seize one empty gunny bag of
Star Cement, one red colour hawai sapple belonging to the accused person.
In her cross-examination, she admitted that Mala Karmakar resides in a
separate house near her house. When she returned to her house, she did not
meet any other person, except her elder sister and her sister. The accused
person’s house is 200 yards away from her house. She also admitted in her
cross-examination that she had no knowledge as to whom the sandal and the
gunny bag belonged.

The evidence of PW-1 & 2 is perfectly corroborated by the evidence of Smti.
Mala Mech. She testified as PW-3 that the victim X is her younger sister
Mamun’s daughter. She testified that the incident took place on 01-01-16.
On that day, at about 11:30 am, while she was in her house which is adjacent
to Mamun’s house, X was playing in front of her house as Mamun went out
for work. She noticed that X was not present in front of her house. So she

went searching for X with Mamata Karmakar. While they were searching for
X, they noticed that in an abandoned house, near the other side of the road,
the accused person made X lie down on the floor of the room and he was
lying atop her body. On witnessing the incident, she assaulted the accused
with a lathi that was lying in the abandoned room. Then the accused tried to
flee. But at that time, Deep Tanti and Sunil Gowalla arrived at the spot and
caught the accused person. They took X from the place of occurrence and
informed her mother who was in her workplace. Her sister Mamun
immediately arrived at her house and then she filed an FIR with the police at
Milan Nagar Outpost and the police arrived at the spot. Mamun Das along
with the victim X went to the police station. The age of the victim X was
about ten years. Her cross-examination is not noteworthy.

10) The evidence of PW-1, 2 & 3 is supported and corroborated by the evidence
of PW-4 Smti. Mamata Karmakar. She testified that X is the daughter of her
elder sister Mamun Das. The incident took place on 01-01-16 at about 11:30
am. At that time, she was in her house which is adjacent to the house of
Mamun Das. At about 11:30 am, X was playing in front of her house along
with her daughter. Suddenly, she noticed that X was missing and so she went
out searching for X along with Mala Mech. Then she and Mala Mech noticed
that X was lying on the floor of an abandoned house and the accused was
lying atop X’s body. On witnessing the incident, Mala Das assaulted the
accused with a bamboo stick. Then the accused fled, but Deep Bagti along
with a person named Sunil Gowalla reached the place of occurrence and
caught the accused person. They took X to her house and informed her
mother. X informed them that while she was playing, the accused came and
forcefully dragged her to the abandoned house and tried to commit bad work
by removing her panty. She also informed them that while she tried to shout,
the accused gagged her with the palm of his hand. She was weeping at that
time. She was only eight years at that time and her mother Mamun Das
lodged an FIR with the police. Her cross-examination is not noteworthy.

11) The evidence of PW-1, 2, 3 & 4 is perfectly corroborated by the evidence of
PW-5 & 6.

12) Sri Sunil Gowalla testified as PW-5 that the incident took place about seven
months back. At the time of the incident, at about 11:30 am, while he was
returning from the shop towards his house, he noticed that the accused was

confronted and assaulted by Mamata Karmakar and Mala in front of an
abandoned house beside the road. Then he along with Deep Bagti caught the
accused and slapped him and then he learnt from Mala and Mamata that the
accused attempted to commit rape on X in an abandoned house. He also
noticed that X was weeping and she was beside Mala and Mamata and when
he asked X about the incident, X informed him that while she was in front of
her house, the accused forcefully took her to the abandoned house and
attempted to commit the shameful act with her. PW-5 further testified that
the accused person whom they caught, fled away from the place of
occurrence in the pretext that he will put on his clothes in his house and
return. After a while, Mamun Das arrived at the place and then she went to
the police station and lodged an FIR.

13) In sync with the evidence of PW-1, 2, 3 & 4, Sri Deep Bakti testified as PW-6
that the incident took place on 01-01-16. On that day, at about 11:30 am,
while he was returning from work towards his house, he noticed that Mala
Mech and Mamata Karmakar caught the accused person on the road near an
abandoned house and confronted him. When he asked his sister Mala, she
informed him that the accused kept X in the abandoned house and tried to
commit bad work with her. The accused also fled from the place of
occurrence in the pretext of putting on some clothes and retuning. After a
while, Mamun Das arrived from her workplace and went to the police station.

14)Smti. Priyanka Nair, Judicial Magistrate, 1 Class, testified as PW-8 that on
02-01-16 while working as Judicial Magistrate, 1% Class, she recorded the
statement of the victim X under Section 164 CrPC in connection with
Dibrugarh PS Case No. 4/16 under Section 4 of the POCSO Act. Ext. 1 is the
statement of the victim X and Ext. 1(3) is her signature.

15) I have perused the statement of the victim. The victim's statement before the
Magistrate and her evidence in the Court is consistent. The only contradiction
is that the victim did not implicate in her statement under Section 164 CrPC
that the accused inserted his penis into her vagina. She stated before the
Magistrate under Section 164 CrPC that the accused made her lie on the floor
and then he climbed atop her and then he touched her vagina with his hand.

16) Thus, it is clear from the evidence of PW-8 that the accused did not commit
penetrative sexual assault on the victim, but he committed sexual assault on
the victim. The evidence of PW-8 is also supported by the evidence of MO Dr.
Nibedita Shyam, who testified as PW-7 that on 01-01-16, she examined the
victim X and on examination, her opinion was that:-
1. The victim was above eight years and below nine years;
2. There was no evidence of sexual intercourse on her
person;
3. There was no evidence of recent injury on her body or
private part.

17) Ext. 3 is the Medico-legal Report and Ext. 3(1) to Ext. 3(3) are her signatures.

18) The IO is a formal witness and SI Rajani Saikia testified as PW-9 that on
01-01-16, while he was posted as SI at Milan Nagar Outpost, the In-Charge
of the Milan Nagar Outpost endorsed him to investigate the case registered
on the basis of FIR lodged by Smti. Mamun Das as GDE No. 12 dtd.
01-01-16. The FIR was forwarded to the Officer-in-charge of the Dibrugarh
Police Station for registration of the same under proper sections of law. Ext. 2
is the FIR and Ext. 2(2) is the signature of Dinanath Milli of Dibrugarh Police
Station which is familiar to him. He found the victim and her mother in the
outpost and forwarded the victim to Assam Medical College & Hospital,
Dibrugarh. He recorded their statements and then went to the place of
occurrence along with the informant. He seized a gunny bag of Star Cement
and a pair of hawai chappal. Ext. 4 is the Seizure-List and Ext. 4(1) is his
signature. He prepared Sketch-Map of the place of occurrence. Ext. 5 is the
Sketch-Map and Ext. 5(1) is his signature. He forwarded the victim to the
Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. He arrested
the accused on 04-01-16 and forwarded him to the Court. He collected the
Medico-legal Report of the victim and on finding prima facie materials, he
submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused under Section 4 of the POCSO
Act. Ext. 6 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 6(1) is my signature.

19) Recapitulating the entire evidence, it is thereby held that the evidence of the
witnesses is corroborative. It is true that PW-1 deposed that the accused
inserted his penis into her vagina, but this could not be proved due to lack of
evidence. There is a hint of emission of semen when PW-2 testified that she
noticed discharge of white coloured fluid on her daughter’s private part, but
she too testified that the accused attempted to commit rape. The witnesses
PW-2, 4 & 5 clearly stated that the accused attempted to commit rape on the
victim. The witnesses PW-3 & 4 saw the accused while he attempted to

commit rape on the victim while they were searching for the missing girl X.
they came upon the abandoned house and found the accused inside the
house. They saw the accused was lying atop the victim's body and attempting
to commit rape on the victim. The MO’s evidence clearly depicts that the
victim did not sustain any injury. She was immediately taken to the medical
officer on the same date, i.e., 01-01-16 and she was examined immediately,
but no injuries or spermatozoa or semen was detected after examination of
the victim. The evidence of PW-5 & 6 affirms that when the accused was
caught red-handed by PW-2 & 3, they came across the accused being
confronted by PW-2 & 3 on the road, in front of the abandoned house. Both
PW-5 & 6 witnessed that the accused was being confronted by Mala Mech
and Mamata Karmakar. The evidence of PW-2 also affirms that her sister
called her over phone and asked her to return home immediately. There is
clinching evidence that the incident took place on 01-01-16 at about 11:30
am. No contradiction could be elicited by the cross-examination of the
witnesses. There is also clinching evidence that after the accused was
apprehended by PW-6 & 7, he fled away in the pretext of wearing clothes.
There is clinching proof that the accused was caught red-handed while he
sexually assaulted the victim.

20)In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that the prosecution
could prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused committed sexual
assault on the victim. As there is contradiction regarding the victim's
statement of penetrative sexual assault, so the accused is not held guilty of
the offence under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. There was no penetration and
so the accused is not held guilty of penetrative sexual assault. The evidence
is crystal clear that the accused is guilty of sexual assault. So, the accused is
held guilty of sexual assault. The exact age of the victim could not be
ascertained by the prosecution.

21)I have heard the accused on the point of sentence. He has prayed for
leniency. I have considered the age and antecedent of the accused.

SENTENCE:

22) The accused Sri Dhaniram Tanti is convicted under Section 8 POCSO Act and
is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 3 (three) years and a find
of Rs. 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred) only, in default of payment of fine, to
undergo rigorous imprisonment for 1 (one) month. The period of detention

already undergone by the accused during investigation and trial is set off with
his custodial sentence.

23) Destroy the seized articles as per law.

24) Furnish free copy of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.

25) The victim who has undergone such an ordeal deserves compensation. This
case is thereby recommended for compensation to the District Legal Services
Authority, Dibrugarh to decide the quantum of compensation to be awarded
to the victim under the Victim’s Compensation Scheme.
Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 19" day of
September, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
10

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 The victim X;
2. PW-2 Smti. Mamun Das;
3. PW-3 Smti. Mala Mech;
4. PW-4 Smti. Mamata Karmakar;
5. PW-5 Sri Sunil Gowalla;
6. PW-6 Sri Deep Bakti;
7. PW-7 Dr. Nibedita Shyam;
8. PW-8 Smti. Priyanka Nair; and
9. PW-9 SI Rajani Saikia.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Medico-legal Report;
4. Ext. 4 Seizure-List;
5. Ext. 5 Sketch-Map; and
6. Ext. 6 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
