HEADING OF JUDGEMENT IN SPECIAL CASES:
DISTRICT: DHUBRI.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: DHUBRI.

SPECIAL CASE NO: 39/2017
UNDER SECTION: 376 IPC
READ WITH SECTION 8 OF THE POCSO ACT.

STATE OF ASSAM
VS.
MUKESH KUMAR

PRESENT:- DIPAK THAKURIA, B.A., LL.M., AJS
SPECIAL JUDGE,
DHUBRI.

APPEARANCES:-
B. R. BASUMATARI, SPECIAL P. P. FOR THE STATE.
Y. A. BEPARI, ADV. FOR THE DEFENCE.

DATE(S) OF EVIDENCE:- 10-11-2017, 20-12-2017,
06-03-2018, 03-05-2018,
05-07-2018, 14-09-2018,
15-03-2019, 05-10-2019.

DATE OF ARGUMENT:- 05-07-2019.

DATE OF JUDGMENT :- 19-07-2019.

JUDGEMENT

1. Accused Mukesh Kumar stands trial for the offences punishable under sections 376 IPC
read with section 8 of the POCSO Act.

2. The facts of the case, as revealed from the ejahar, in brief, are as follows:- that on 12-

1
03-2017 the complainant lodged a written ejahar before the Officer-in-charge of
Agomoni police station with an allegation that on that day at about 1 p.m. his 16 year 3
months old daughter was going to the house of the president of Panchayat and than
taking the advantage that no one was on road the employee of No. 16" Railway gate
Mukesh Kumar with the help of one Manoj Kumar by force dragged his minor daughter
to the room constructed for railway employees and accused Mukesh Kumar attempted to
commit rape on her. While his daughter raised alarm, then the people of surrounding
areas gathered and saved his daughter. The matter was informed to the president of
Panchayat who informed the incident to police and police brought his daughter and

accused Mukesh Kumar to police station.

. After receiving the ejahar a case at Agomoni police station was registered as Agomoni P.
S. Case No. 68/2017 under sections 376/511/34 IPC. Subsequently section 8 of the
POCSO Act was added.

. The investigating officer arrested the accused, produced him before the Court and the
Court remanded him to judicial custody, recorded the statements of witnesses under
section 161 Cr. P. C. By completing the investigation, I. O. has submitted charge sheet
against the accused person to prosecute him under sections 376/511 IPC read with
section 8 of POCSO Act.

. During investigation the accused was released on bail.

. Cognizance of the case was taken in charge sheeted sections. Copies were furnished to
the accused and after hearing both the parties and perusal the case record and case
diary formal charges against the accused under section 376/511 IPC read with section 8
of POCSO Act were framed. Charges so framed were read over and explained to the

accused which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

. The prosecution examined nine witnesses including investigating officer and closed the

evidence.

. Dipak Das, Officer-in-charge of Agomoni police station was examined as Court witness.

. After completion of the prosecution evidence and recording the statement of Court

witness the statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr. P. C. by putting

2
questions to him from all incriminating evidence appearing against him on record and
thereby giving him an opportunity to meet the same. In response to which, the accused
denied the allegations as well as evidence on record and also declined to adduce

evidence in defence .

10.Heard learned counsels appearing for the parties and perused the evidence on record.

FOLLOWING POINTS HAVE BEEN SET UP FOR DETERMINATION

Whether the accused on 12-03-2017 at about 1 p.m. near the Belguri Railway Gate
under Agomoni police station attempted to commit rape to the minor daughter of the
complainant and thereby accused is liable to be punished under section 376/511
IPC?

Whether the accused on the same day time and place sexually assaulted the minor
daughter of the complainant and thereby accused Is liable to be punished under
section 8 of POCSO Act?

DISCUSSIONS ON THE POINTS FOR DETERMINATION AND THE DECISION
ARRIVED THEREON WITH REASON:

11.In order to establish the charges framed against the accused, the prosecution has
examined nine witnesses. Among them P. W. 1 is the complainant and the father of the
victim girl. P. W. 2 is the victim girl, P. W. 3 Jarina Bibi, P. W. 4 Romisa Bibi, P. W. 5
Moynal Haque, P. W. 6 Jahan Uddin Sarkar, P. W. 7 Abdul Latif Sheikh and P. W. 8
Jaybar Ali are independent witnesses. P. W. 9 Shah Alom Azad is the investigating

officer.

12.The prosecution has exhibited the Ejahar as Ext. 1, statement of the victim as Ext. 2,
seizure list as Ext. 3, sketch map of place of occurrence as Ext. 4 and charge sheet as
Ext. 5. The prosecution has exhibited the birth certificate of the victim girl as M. Ext. 1.

13.Dipak Das is the Court witness who exhibited the Extract Copy of G. D. Entry No. 288
dated 12-03-2017 as Ext. I.
14.The defence examined none. Plea of the defence is total denial of the case.

15.Learned Special Public Prosecutor B. Basurmatary has submitted that the prosecution
examined all together nine witnesses to establish the charges framed against the
accused and the Court examined one witness as Court witness. The main witness for the
prosecution is the complainant and the victim. The victim girl has depicted entire story
and her deposition has been corroborated by her father and other independent
witnesses. There is nothing to disbelieve the prosecution witnesses. The prosecution Is
able to establish the charges against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. So, has
prayed to hold the accused guilty under framed charges and impose adequate

punishment to him.

16. On the other hand learned counsel appearing for the defence Y. A. Bepari has submitted
that the prosecution has failed to establish that the victim is a minor. The birth
certificate seized by the I. O. subsequently proved as forged. The accused is an
employee of Railway Department. The local persons were not happy that an outsider
was appointed in the Belguri Rail Gate. The alleged victim at her own will went to meet
the accused and then some villagers with ulterior motive apprehended them and
compelled the complainant to file a false case against him. The evidences led by the
prosecution are not sufficient to constitute the charges framed against the accused. The
prosecution has failed to establish the charges against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubts. So, the accused deserves benefit of doubt. Hence, has prayed to

acquit the accused.

17.Before we proceed, let us reproduce the material parts of the witnesses examined by the
prosecution during trial.

17.1 P. W. 1 is the complainant and the father of the victim girl. He has deposed
that 12-03-2017, at around 01:00 p.m., while his daughter was proceeding to
the house of the Panchayat President Aminur Rahman to collect a certificate,
at the No.16 Rail gate at village Belguri, Part-I, the accused forcibly took her
to the room of the Rail gate and attempted to commit rape on her. His
daughter then shouted for help at which, the nearby people arrived at the
place of occurrence and apprehended the accused. Thereafter, the people
informed the Panchayat President and he arrived at the place of occurrence
and handed over the accused to the Agomoni Police. At the time of the

alleged occurrence, the age of his daughter was about 15 years. Thereafter

4
17.2

17.3

17.4

he filed the ejahar (Ext-1). Exhibit-1 (1) is his signature.

In cross-examination he has stated that the Rail gate is situated at a distance
of about 2 k. ms. away from his house. There were several houses near the
Rail gate but, he does not know the names of house owners. He did not see
the incident. He has denied the suggestion of the defence that he did not tell
the police that when the victim girl shouted for help, the nearby people
arrived at the place of occurrence and apprehended the accused. He has
also denied the suggestion of the defence that the nearby people of the Rail
gate, including him, wanted the Railway authority to appoint a person of their
locality at the Rail gate, but the railway authority appointed the accused
instead, who did not belong to their place; So they falsely implicated the
accused in this case to remove him from the service. He has further denied
the suggestion of the defence that at the time of the alleged occurrence, the
age of the victim girl was more than 18 years.

P. W. 2 is the alleged victim. She has deposed that she knows the accused.
On 12-03-2017, at around 01:00 p.m., while she was proceeding to the
house of the Panchayat President Aminur Rahman to collect a certificate, at
the Rail gate No.16, the accused Mukesh Kumar called her at which, she went
towards him. At that time, no other person was present there. As soon as she
reached near the accused, he grabbed her and took her inside the room of
the Rail gate and attempted to commit rape on her. She then shouted for
help at which, the nearby people arrived at the place of occurrence and
apprehended the accused and assaulted him. Thereafter, the people informed
the Panchayat President and he arrived at the place of occurrence and
informed Agomoni police about the incident. The police from the Agomoni
Police Station arrived at the place of occurrence and took away the accused.
Thereafter, her father filed the FIR of the instant case against the accused.
The police took her to the court and the Magistrate recorded her statement.
Ext-2 is her said statement and ext-2 (1) and ext-2 (2) are her signatures
therein.

In cross-examination she has deposed that at the time of the occurrence, the
accused was discharging his duty at the Rail gate. The house of the
Panchayat President Aminur Rahman is situated at a distance of about 2/3
k.m. away from her house. There were several houses near the Rail gate but,

she does not know the names of the house owners. She has denied the
17.5

17.6

suggestion of the defence that she did not tell the police that at the time of
the occurrence, no other person was present at the place of occurrence. She
has denied the suggestion of the defence that she did not tell the police that
when the accused attempted to commit rape on her, she shouted for help at
which, the nearby people arrived at the place of occurrence and apprehended
the accused. She has denied another suggestion of the defence that she did
not tell the police that the people informed the Panchayat President and he
arrived at the place of occurrence and informed the Agomoni police about the
incident and the police from the Agomoni Police Station arrived at the place
of occurrence and took away the accused. She has denied the suggestion of
the defence that the accused Mukesh Kumar did not call her and she did not
go towards him and he did not grab her and did not take her to the room of
the Rail gate and did not attempt to commit rape on her. She has denied the
suggestion of the defence that the accused has not committed the alleged
offence and with intent to remove him from his service at the Rail gate, in
collusion with the president of the Gaon Panchayat and her father, they had
manufactured this case against him.

P. W. 3 Jarina Bibi is an independent witness. She has deposed that about
nine months back, one day, at about 01:30 p.m., one boy and a girl entered
into a railway crossing room situated at Belguri. One boy named Joybor Ali
called us and informed about the incident. Then we noticed the door of the
room was locked from inside. Then we knocked the door. Accused opened
the door. We noticed the victim was inside the room. On being asked, she
told us that the accused brought her to the room and tortured her.
Thereafter, someone informed to police. Police came and had taken away
both the accused and the girl.

In cross-examination she has deposed that she had not seen the entry into
the room by anyone. Before entry into the room, she could not say where the
girl and accused were. When the accused opened the door, they noticed the
girl was hiding herself under a table. She was wearing her dress. The girl
talked to them normally. The accused was a railway guard hailing from Bihar.
There is no person belongs to the community of accused in their village. She
does not know from how many days the accused had been working as
railway guard at Belguri post. Before the incident, she had not seen the girl

around the place of occurrence. Before the incident she does not know the

6
17.7

17.8

17.9

girl. Before the incident, she does not know the name of the accused. She
has denied the suggestion of the defence that there was a public demand to
appoint a local boy in the railway crossing gate, as Govt. engaged the
accused who is an outsider; so, to drive the accused from the place, the
complainant filed a false case against the accused and she also cooperate
with him.

P. W. 4 Romisa Bibi has deposed that about nine months back, one day, at
about 01:30 p.m., one boy and a girl entered into a railway crossing room
situated at Belguri. One boy named Joybor Ali called us and informed about
the incident. Then they noticed the door of the room was locked from inside.
Then they knocked the door. Accused opened the door. They noticed the
victim was inside the room. On being asked, she told them that the accused
brought her to the room. Thereafter, someone informed to police. Police
came and had taken away both the accused and the girl.

In cross-examination she has deposed that she had not seen the entry into
the room by anyone. When the accused opened the door they noticed that
the girl was hiding herself under a table. She was wearing her dress. She
talked to them normally. The accused was hailing from Bihar. She does not
know many days the accused had been working as Railway guard at Belguri.
Before the incident she did not see the girl around the place of occurrence.
She has denied the suggestion of the defence that there was a public
demand to appoint a local boy in the railway crossing gate, as Govt. engaged
the accused who is an outsider; so, to drive the accused from the place, the
complainant filed a false case against the accused and she also cooperate
with him.

P. W. 5 Moynal Haque knows nothing about the subject matter of the case.

17.10 P. W. 6 Jahanuddin Sheikh has deposed that he knows the complainant; but

does not know the accused. One day he was asked to put his signature in a
seizure list at Agomoni police station and he put his signature. Ext. 3 is the

seizure list and Ext. 3 (1) is his signature.

17.11 P. W. 7 Abdul Latif Sheikh is another seizure witness. He knows both the

complainant and the accused. About one year back he was working as home
guard at Agomoni police station and one day I. O. asked him to put his
signature in the seizure list. Accordingly he put his signature in Ext. 3 seizure

list. Ext. 3 (2) is his signature.
17.12 P. W. 8 Joybar Ali has not supported the case of the prosecution; so, the
prosecution declared him hostile and he denied the suggestion of the
prosecution that he disclosed that on 12-03-2017 he was working in a field
near his house. In the meantime a girl was crossing rail gate. At that time,
Mukesh Kumar was working at railway gate and he was inside the room of
railway crossing gate. The girl entered into the room and Mukesh Kumar
closed the door from inside and then he informed the matter to Jorina Bibi
and Romisa Bibi. They asked accused to open the door of the room and
found that the girl was hiding under a table. They informed the matter to
police. From the girl he came to know that Mukesh attempted to rape her. In
cross-examination by defence he has stated that I. O. did not record his
statement.

17.13 P. W. 9 Shah Alom Azad has deposed that on 12-03-2017, he was working at
Agomoni P.S. On that day the complainant lodged a written ejahar before the
O/C, Agomoni P.S. and a case u/s 376/511/34 IPC was registered. He was
entrusted to investigate the case. On that day, at about 02:00 pm he visited
the place of occurrence, inspected the place of occurrence and prepared a
sketch map of place of occurrence. He recorded the statements of witnesses
u/s 161 Cr.P.C. The victim was sent to hospital for medical examination and
she refused to get herself medically examined. The victim was sent to the
court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Thereafter, he filed an
application in the court for adding section 8 of POCSO Act. Birth certificate of
the victim girl was seized by him and the same has given jimmah to her
father. On 13-03-2017 the accused was arrested and subsequently he was
produced in the court. After completing the investigation, he submitted
charge sheet against the accused u/s 376/511 IPC, r/w section 4 of POCSO
Act. He has exhibited the seizure list as Ext-3. Ext-3(3) is his signature. Ext-4
is the sketch map and ext-4(1) is his signature. Ext-5 is the charge sheet and
ext-5(1) is his signature. He examined witness Joybar Ali during investigation
and recorded his statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Witness Joybar Ali disclosed
before him that on 12-03-2017 he was working in a field near his house. In
the meantime a girl was crossing rail gate. At that time, Mukesh Kumar was
working at railway gate and he was inside the room of railway crossing gate.
The girl entered into the room and Mukesh Kumar closed the door from

inside and then he informed the matter to Jorina Bibi and Romisa Bibi. They

8
asked accused to open the door of the room and found that the girl was
hiding under a table. They informed the matter to police. From the girl he
came to know that Mukesh attempted to rape her. He has exhibited the
Seized birth certificate as M. Ext. 1.

17.14 In cross-examination he has stated that the complainant did not disclose
before him that the victim girl shouted for help, the nearby people arrived at
the place of occurrence and apprehended the accused. The alleged victim did
not disclose before him that at the time of the occurrence no other person
was present at the place of occurrence, when accused attempted to commit
rape on her she shouted for help at which the nearby people arrived at the
place of occurrence and apprehended the accused and people informed
Panchayat President who arrived at Place of occurrence and informed the
incident to Agomoni P.S. and police took away the accused. Witness Jarina
Bibi did not disclose before him that the victim girl informed her that accused
brought her to the room. Witness Romisa Bibi did not disclose before him
that the victim girl informed her that accused brought her to the room.
Before filing the ejahar O/C, Agomoni P.S. received information that one boy
and one girl were confined at Belguri by public. Then O/C, Agomoni P.S.
opened GDE no. 258 dated 12-03-2017 and he with O/C, Agomoni P.S. and
police staff rushed to the place of occurrence. He has not verified the
authenticity of the M. Ext. 1 in the Office of the Registrar of Birth and Death.

17.15 Officer-in-charge of Agomoni police station Dipak Das was examined as Court
Witness (C. W. 1). He has deposed that as per direction of the court, he
brought Extract copy of G.D. Entry No. 258 dated 12-03-2017 of Agomoni
P.S. On 12-03-2017, Biswajit Bhadra was working as Officer-In-charge of
Agomoni P.S. From the G.D. Entry no. 258 dated 12-03-2017 it appears that
on that day at about 01:30 p.m. the then O/C, Agomoni P.S. received a
phone call from Aminur Rahman who was the President of Sindurai Gaon
Panchayat. It was informed that at Belguri Rail Gate (TRMTR-4) one Mukhesh
Kumar was on duty. He and one girl aged about 17 years, D/o- Abdul Rahim
of village Belguri 2™ part were apprehended by the villagers and confined
them and also physically assaulted them when they were found in a
compromising position in the Rail Gate house. After receiving the information,
then O/C, Agomoni P.S. visited the P.O. He has exhibited the Extract copy of
G.D. Entry no. 258 dated 12-03-2017 as Ext. I and Ext-I(1) is his signature.

9
18 In a case under the provision of POCSO Act the age of the victim girl is very crucial
and the prosecution has to establish that at the time of the alleged incident the
victim girl was a child as defined under section 2 (d) of the POCSO Act. In this case
the complainant in his ejahar stated that his daughter was 16 years old and the
victim girl disclosed before the Judicial Magistrate while recording her statement
under section 164 Cr. P. C. that she was 17 years old. From the evidence of the
investigating officer it appears that after the incident the victim girl was sent to
Dhubri Civil Hospital for medical examination; but she refused to get medically
examined. So, there is no medical evidence regarding her age. From the evidence of
the investigating officer (P. W. 9) it appears that vide Ext. 3 seizure list he seized the
birth certificate of the victim girl. As per birth certificate (M. Ext. 1) the date of birth
of the victim was 15-02-2000. The alleged incident took place on 12-03-2017.
Arithmetical calculation shows that at the time of the incident the age of the victim
was below 18 year if the birth certificate is genuine. During trial the investigating
officer was directed to submit a report regarding genuineness of the seized birth
certificate and accordingly the investigating officer submitted his report. The
investigating officer wrote a letter to the Sub-Divisional Medical and Health Officer
Halakura BPHC, Halakura from where the M. Ext. 1 was shown issued. Registrar of
Birth and Death, Halakura BPHC has reported that the birth certificate was not

genuine as it was not issued from their end.

19 The victim girl refused to get medically examined; so, there is no ossification test
regarding her age. The investigating officer has not collected school certificate of the
victim girl to ascertain her age. The birth certificate of the alleged victim collected by
I. O. is also not genuine. As the seized birth certificate of the victim girl is not
genuine and there is no other documentary evidence to determine the actual age of
the victim girl; so, it will not be safe to hold that at the time of the alleged incident
the victim was a child as defined under section 2 (d) of the POCSO Act.

20 The allegation against the accused is that he attempted to commit rape on the victim
girl. From the evidence on record it transpires that the alleged incident took place
inside a railway gate room at Belguri Railway gate. As per oral testimonies of Jarina
Bibi and Romisa Bibi one person named Joybar Ali informed them about the incident.

Said Joybar Ali was examined in the Court as P. W. 8; but he has not supported the

10
version of Jarina Bibi and Romisa Bibi. Ultimately the prosecution declared him as

hostile witness and cross-examined him.

21 From the evidence on record it clears that at the time of the alleged incident the
complainant was not present on spot. Only the independent witness Jarina Bibi and
Romisa Bibi were on spot. According to them on the day of the incident they were
informed about the incident and they went to the spot. They found that the room
was locked from inside and while they knocked the door; the accused opened the
same. They found the girl who was hiding herself under a table. The girl talked then
normally and she was wearing her dress. From the evidence of Jarina Bibi and
Romisa Bibi it is clear that at the time of the alleged incident the alleged victim and
the accused were inside the room. Now the moot question arises whether the
accused attempted to commit rape on the alleged victim girl as alleged or not. In this
regard the evidence of the alleged victim and her subsequent behavior and the
condition of the room are very important. As per the alleged victim, when she
reached the room, the accused grabbed her and took her inside of the room and
attempted to rape on her. She shouted for help and then nearby people arrived at
the place and apprehended the accused. Though the victim girl stated that she
shouted; but Jarina Bibi and Romisa Bibi who arrived at the place of occurrence have
not stated anything that they heard scream of the girl. According to them the girl
talked to them normally and she was wearing her dress. If the accused was trying to
commit rape on her definitely she would have been resist and under such situation it
was not possible to talk anyone normally. Her dress either be torn or damaged. But
Jarina Bibi and Romisa Bibi found the girl under a table as she was hiding herself. If
the accused attempted to commit rape on her and then two women arrived at the
spot, the first reaction of the alleged victim would have been attempt to run away
from the room as soon as the door of the room was opened and second she being a
threatened girl tried to disclose the facts to Jarina and Romisa. Instead of saying
anything to them the victim girl tried to hide herself under a table. From the
evidence on record it transpires that after the incident several persons gathered at
the place of occurrence and someone informed about the incident to police. The
information was jotted down by Officer-in-charge of Agomoni Police Station by
opening G. D. Entry No. 258 dated 12-03-2017 (Ext. I). The contents of the Extract
copy of said G. D. Entry is important as it was the first information received by

police. On perusal the contents of Ext. I it appears that the villagers apprehended

11
both the boys and the girl, physically assaulted them and confined them as they

were found in compromising position.

22 An attempt is an overt act immediately connected with the commission of an offence
and forming part of a series of acts which, if not interrupted or frustrated or
abandoned, would result the commission of the completed offence. In the case in
hand if the accused attempted to commit rape on the alleged victim he had to use
force to her and the alleged victim would have been raised alarm for help. The
wearing apparel of the alleged victim either was damaged or torn and her mental
condition would not have been normal. But the evidence on record shows that at the
time of the alleged incident the alleged victim girl did not raise alarm for help, she
was in normal condition, her dress was proper and she tried to hide herself under a
table while the independent witnesses found them inside the room. After the incident
the alleged victim refused to get her medically examined. If there was any violence
on her body, the doctor could have been detected the same. The conduct of the

alleged victim that she refused to get medically examined creates doubt.

23 After considering the entire situation it appears to me that the alleged victim was a
consenting party and she at her own will entered into the room of the accused and
in the mean time Jarina and Romisa arrived at the place and seeing them she tried
to conceal her from them. Thereafter the villagers gathered there and confined both

of them also physically assaulted them and ultimately handed them over to police.

24 The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Digambar Vaishnav and another vs. State of
Chhattisgarh 2019 Cri. L. J. 1901 has opined one of the fundamental principles
of criminal jurisprudence is undeniably that the burden of proof squarely rest on the
prosecution and that the general burden never shifts. There can be no conviction on
the basis of surmises and conjectures or suspicion however grave it may be. Strong
suspicion, strong coincidence and grave doubt cannot take place of legal proof. The
onus of the prosecution cannot be discharged by referring to very strong suspicion
and existence of highly suspicious factors to inculpate the accused not falsity of
defence could take the place of proof which the prosecution has to establish in order
to succeed, though a false plea by the defence at best, be considered as an

additional circumstance, if other circumstances unfailingly point to the guilt.

25 In view of the above discussion and observation it is safely concluded that the

12
prosecution has failed to establish the charges framed against the accused person
beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, the accused deserves the benefit of doubt and
accordingly the accused is acquitted of the charges on benefit of doubt and he is set
at liberty.

26 Let the seized article be destroyed after expiry of appeal or revision period.
27 The liability of the bailor will remain in force for next six months as per law.

28 Given under my hand and seal of this Court this the 19" day of July 2019.

(D. Thakuria)
Special Judge, Dhubri.

13
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: DHUBRI.

SPECIAL CASE NO: 39/2017
UNDER SECTION: 376 IPC READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE POCSO ACT.

STATE OF ASSAM
VS.
MUKESH KUMAR

APPENDIX
A. Prosecution exhibits:

Ext. 1 : Ejahar.
Ext. 2 : Statement of the victim.
Ext. 3 : Seizure list.
Ext. 4 i Sketch map.
Ext. 5 : Charge sheet.
B. Defence Exhibits : Nil.
C. Court Exhibits
Ext. I : Extract copy of G. D. Entry.

D. Prosecution Witnesses:
P. W. 1: Complainant,
.W.2: The Victim,
.W.3:  Jarina Bibi,
. W.4: Romisa Bibi,
.W.5: Moinal Haque,
.W.6: Jahanuddin Sarkar,
.W.7: Abdul Latif Sheikh,
.W.8: Joybar Ali &
.W.9: Shah Alom Azad.
E. Defence Witness: Nil.
F. Court Witness
C. W. 1: Dipak Das.

UU UDUCUCUCUmUDULlmUCU UC TCC

(D. Thakuria )
Special Judge, Dhubri.

14
