CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 67/15

Informant: = Sri Laku Munda,
S/o- Late Atua Munda,
R/o- Kachumari Gaon,
PS- Moran,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Birun Garh,
S/o- Sri Juliram Garh,
R/o- Boroline, Tiloijan Tea Estate,
PS- Moran,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
For the Defence: Sri A Dutta, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 67/15
G.R. Case No. 2524/15

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Birun Garh

Charges: Under Section 8 POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 30-05-16, 30-05-16, 05-08-16 & 15-06-17.
Date of argument : 03-10-17.
Date of Judgment — : 03-10-17.

1)

a)

JUDGMENT

Prosecution case in a nutshell is that on 06-09-15, at about 2:00 pm, the ten
year old victim X went for a visit along with her friend Bhendri and stayed in
the house where they went for a visit. At about 12:00 O’ clock midnight,
while the victim X was sleeping, Sri Birun Garh (hereinafter the accused)
committed rape on the victim X. An ejahar regarding this incident was lodged
by the victim’s father Sri Laku Munda. The ejahar was registered as Moran PS
Case No. 314/15 under Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act in short) and SI Pratap Borgohain was
endorsed with the investigation. The investigating officer (IO in short)
embarked upon the investigation and forwarded the victim for medical
examination. The victim was also forwarded to the Magistrate for recording
her statement under Section 164 CrPC. The IO went to the place of
occurrence and prepared the Sketch-Map and recorded the statements of the
witnesses. On finding prima facie materials, the IO submitted the Charge-
Sheet against the accused Sri Birun Garh under Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
the sides, a formal charge under Section 8 of the POCSO Act was framed and
explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and claimed

innocence.
3)

4)

5)

6)

7)

To substantiate the stance, the prosecuting adduced the evidence of six
witnesses including the medical officer (MO in short), the IO and the Judicial
Magistrate. The defence also cross-examined the witnesses to refute the
charges.
I have heard arguments of both the sides.
POINT FOR DETERMINATION:

1. Whether the accused sexually assaulted the minor victim X?

Decision thereon and the reasons for the decision:
The victim X testified as PW-1 that the incident took place about a year back.
She was staying in the accused person’s house as a maid and attending his
baby. The accused person has a family of two children and his wife. On the
night of the incident, the accused slept with her and touched her breast and
private parts. When she raised alarm, nobody awoke and the accused fled.
On the next morning, she narrated about the incident to his wife, but his wife
did not react. On the same day, she came to her house in the evening and
informed her mother about the incident. Her mother informed her father
about the incident and her father lodged an ejahar with the police. The police
recorded her statement and forwarded her for medical examination. The
police also forwarded her to the Magistrate for recording her statement.
In her cross-examination, she stated that the accused person’s house consists
of two rooms and his younger sister who is of her age also resides in the
same house. Hir house is at a walkable distance from her house. On the night
of the incident, there was Kirtan ceremony in the accused person’s house and
several people attended the Kirtan ceremony till the morning. On the night of
Kirtan, she was sleeping alone in one room in the accused person’s house
and in another room, the accused, his wife and children were sleeping. The
accused person’s sister Vendri went to her own house on the night of the
Kirtan.
Sri Laku Munda testified as PW-2 that the incident took place about 6/7
months ago. On the day of the incident, his daughter went to the accused
person’s house along with his sister. On the following day, his daughter
informed him that the accused committed rape on her. Then he went to the
police station along with his daughter. The police recorded their statements
and forwarded the victim for medical examination. His daughter was also

forwarded for medical examination. His daughter was also forwarded to the
8)

9)

Magistrate for recording her statement.

In his cross-examination, the informant stated that his daughter went to the
accused person's house to take care of his baby for about 6/7 days on
payment of Rs. 200/- per week, but the accused failed to make the payment.

At this juncture, it is pertinent to state that the complainant mentioned in his
FIR that the accused committed rape on his daughter and he also testified in
the Court that the accused committed rape on his daughter. His evidence is
contradictory to his daughter’s statement. She stated in her cross-
examination that the accused touched her breasts and private parts. She did
not implicate and incriminate that the accused committed rape on her. the
allegation of rape is an embellishment by the complainant. Let us see what

the doctor says.

10) the medical officer Dr. Nibedita Shyam testified as PW-4 that on 10-09-15,

she examined the victim X in connection with this case and found the
following:
Genital organs well developed. Vulva is healthy. Hymen intact.
Vagina is healthy. Uterus not palpable abdominally. Vaginal smear
were taken from in and around the vagina, the result of which

does not show any spermatozoa.

11) According to her opinion, the victim was above 12 (twelve) years and below

14 (fourteen) years old and there was no evidence of recent sexual
intercourse on her person nor there was any evidence of injury detected on

her body or private parts.

12) The evidence of the MO also depicts that hymen was intact.

13) After considering the evidence of the victim and the MO, it is thereby held

that the accused did not commit penetrative sexual assault on the victim. The
statement of the victim and her statement before the Magistrate under
Section 164 CrPC are consistent. The statement of the victim reveals that the
accused touched her breasts and her private parts. The evidence of Sri
Markesh Kumar as PW-3 also supports the evidence of the victim. He stated
that about eight months ago, the police went to Boroline of Tiloijan Tea
Estate and asked him to show the accused person’s house and accordingly,
he showed the direction of the accused person’s house to the police. Then he
learnt that the accused person was alleged of attempting to commit rape on

Laku Munda’s daughter.
14) If we carefully analyze the evidence, it can be deduced that the accused
person committed sexual harassment on the victim. The complainant could
not clearly describe the incident and he stated that the accused committed
rape on the victim. On the other hand, the victim who was a girl below 14
(fourteen) years at the time of the incident, could not clearly describe the
incident.

15) The learned defence counsel laid stress at the time of argument that it is not
possible to sexually harass a minor girl below 14 (fourteen) years in a house
which consists of only two rooms.

16) After carefully analyzing the evidence, it is held that the accused did not
commit sexual assault on the victim, but he committed sexual harassment on
the victim, as described under Section 11(1) of the POCSO Act. Instead of
sentencing the accused under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, he is sentenced
under Section 12 of the POCSO Act by virtue of Section 222(2) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure (CrPC in short).

17)I have considered the age and antecedents of the accused. I have heard the
accused on the point of sentence. I have also considered the fact that he is a
daily wage earner and he is only 21 (twenty-one) years of age and he is a
father of two children. I have also considered the facts and circumstances of
this case and I believe that confinement of the accused will create difficulty
to take care of his minor children and wife. I have also considered the facts
and circumstances of this case and all aspects while sentencing the accused.

SENTENCE:

18) The accused Sri Birun Garh is convicted under Section 12 of the POCSO Act
and is sentenced to undergo SI (Simple Imprisonment) for 2 (two) months
and a fine of Rs. 3,000/- (Rupees Three Thousand) only and in default of
payment of fine, to undergo SI for 2 (two) months. The period of detention
already undergone by the accused during investigation, and trial is set off
with his custodial sentence.

19) Furnish free copies of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.

20) The fine realized will be paid as compensation to the victim.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 3% day of
October, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
APPENDIX

List of witnesses:

1. PW-1 The victim ‘xX’;

2. PW-2 Sri Laku Munda;

3. PW-3 Sri Markesh Kumar;

4. PW-4 Dr. Nibedita Shyam; and

5. PW-5 SI Pratap Borgohain.
List of Exhibits:

1. Ext. 1 Medico-legal Report;

2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;

3. Ext. 3 Sketch-Map;

4. Ext. 4 Charge-Sheet; and

5. Ext. 5 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
