Page 1 of 20

THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of
accused u/s°313 Cr.P.C

Date.of- Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

-VS-

17 of 2016

(Under Section 10 of POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No 1344
of 2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special judge, Sonitpur,
Tezpur

State of Assam

Sri Kalicharan.Doom @
Kalicharan Basfor

Son of-Chandreswar Doom
Resident of Budagaon, LOkra
Police.Station — Chariduar
Dist’*= Sonitpur, Assam.
11/08/2016

14/09/2016, 26/04/2017,

18/08/2017 & 15/09/2017.

12/10/2017

15/11/2017

29/11/2017

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor, Sonitpur

Mr. A.K. Mahanta, Learned Advocate
Page 2 of 20

JUDGMENT
1. In this case accused Sri Kalicharan Doom @ Kalicharan
Basfor is put for trial for allegation of charge under Section 10 of
POCSO Act.
2. The various facts leading to this case according to FIR in
brief is that on 2"? May, 2016 around 6 p.m. the informant’s wife
Mrs Sobha Devi informed him that his daughter Miss X, aged about
6 years, student of class I standard of Assam Rifle School, has been
sexually harassed at around 1.15 p.m. — 1.30 p.m. in the. school
premises she she has gone to relieve herself at bathroom. He
immediately told his wife to meet the school authorities\on»3™ May,
2016 and to investigate the matter. On 3 May, 2016 at around, 11
a.m. his wife approached the school authorities, to investigate the
matter and also informed the matter to‘class teacher. The victim
identified the culprit who as an employee of their school as a
sweeper and his name is Kalicharan Doom. Hence, this prosecution
case. The ejahar was filed by-informant Subudh Kumar Bhatt who is
a Rifle man on General Duty before the O/C of Chariduar PS on 03-
05-2016.
3. On receipt'the ejahar the O/C Chariduar P.S. registered the
case, vide Chariduar PS Case No. 64/16, under Section 10 of POCSO
Act. After, completion of usual investigation, the O/C Chariduar
Police ‘station sent up the case for trial against the accused Sri
Kalicharan Doom @ Kalicharan Basfor under Section 10 of POCSO
Act.
4. On being appeared the accused person before this Court
after hearing both parties, framed charge under section 10 of
POCSO Act. Particulars of the charge are read over and explained to
which he pleads not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 9
(nine) numbers of witnesses. Accused pleads total denial while his
statement was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegation made

against the accused and evidence appears against the accused are
Page 3 of 20

put before him where he deny the evidence and decline to give
defence evidence.
6. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned
counsel for both parties.
7. The point for decision in this case is that :
(i) Whether on or about 1.15 — 1.30 p.m. on
02-05-2016, at School premises of AR Schol at
Lakra under Chariduar Police station, accused
committed aggravated sexual assault on
victim, aged about 6 years of age, student of
class- 1 standard of AR school and thereby
committed an offence punishable. under
section 10 of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and_reason for decision

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the
evidence on record.
9. PW- 1 Dr. Tutumoni Handique stated before the Court that
on 03-05-2016 she was posted as working as Medical & Health
Officer-1 in the Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at
about 1.30 p.m.-in the labour room complex of KCH, she examined
Miss X, 6-years, female, D/O Subudh kr. Bhatta of AR School, Lokra,
on police requisition, in reference to Chariduar PS Case NO. 64/16
dated’»03-05-2016, on being escorted and identified by IPS(P)
Aparna Natarajan, vide Hospital registration No. 21419/16 dated
03-05-2016. She was examined in presence of GNM Anna Merry.
Consent in writing before examination was taken from her mother.

According to victim, on 02-05-2016 while she was in school
toilet, the clearner asked her to touch her private parts and exposed
genital before the child.
On examination, she found the following:

Identification mark — mole on lower lip.

Height — 111 cm., Weight — 16 Kg, Teeth — 5 in all four

quadrants. Average built, normal gait. No sign of injury marks and
Page 4 of 20

violence in her private parts as well as on her boy. Hymen intact.
Superficial smear from vagina taken and sent for examination.

Investigation report:

Vaginal smear for spermatozoa — negative for
spermatozoa.
OPINION:

1. No injury marks on her body/private parts.

2. No penetrative sexual assault.

Enclosures:

Vaginal smear report.

Ext. 1 is the Medical Report and Ext. 1 (1) is her’signature.

Ext. 2 is the vaginal smear report. Ext. 3 is the police requisition
and Ext. 3(1) is her signature on receipt of police,requisition.
10. PW-2 Sri Subodh Kr. Bhatt stated) that he knows the
accused Kali Charan Doom. Victim Miss “X” is his daughter. The
incident took place on 2™ May, 2016. At the time of incident, his
daughter was 6 years of age-andsshe studied in class I standard at
Assam Rifle School, LokrasOn»that day he was on duty. At about
5.30/6.00 p.m., he returned to his quarter and came to know from
his wife that the cleaner of the school toilet was cleaning while their
daughter/victim went to toilet and then accused exposed his private
parts andyasked the victim touched his private parts. His wife also
reported that his daughter told his wife not to disclose the matter to
hims. Next day, he along with his wife went to the school and
complaint to the Head Master of Assam Rifle School by stating
whole the matter. Thereafter, he lodged the FIR before police. Ext.
4 is the FIR and Ext. 4(1) is his signature. The FIR was written by
their Major Monish Biswas as per his instruction. Then, police
recorded the statement of his daughter, took her to doctor for
medical examination and also sent to learned Magistrate for
recording her statement. At the time of recording the statement of
his daughter by the Magistrate his wife Mrs. Sobha Devi was

present.
Page 5 of 20

In cross-examination, he admitted that on his request,

Major Monish Biswas typed the ejahar as per his instruction. The
date of birth of his daughter was 16-02-2011. She was admitted in
the school 25" or 26” April, 2016 in KG class. On the day of
occurrence she was a student of Class I.
11. PW-3 Smt. Sobha Devi, mother of the victim, stated that
she knows the accused Kali Charan Doom. The incident took place
on 2™ May, 2016. At the time of incident, her daughter was 6 years
of age and she studied in class I standard at Assam Rifle School,
Lokra. On that day she was at her quarter. After returning from
school she asked her daughter for changing her schoolyclothes.
Then she told her that she wanted to tell something and asked her
not to tell her father about the said incident. Her daughter told her
that while the cleaner of the school toilet was, cleaning she went to
toilet and then accused exposed his-private parts and asked her to
touch his private parts. Thereafter, she’ returned from toilet. In the
evening time when her husband\returned she narrated the whole
story to him. In the nextday, she informed about the matter to the
class teacher of her daughter’s class and her husband reported the
matter to the Head Master of the School. Then her husband filed
the FIR before.the police station. Then, police recorded statement
of her daughter, took her to doctor for medical examination and
also sent to learned Magistrate for recording her statement. At the
time of recording the statement of her daughter by the Magistrate
she was present and then her daughter was gave custody to us.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she has seen the
accused today for the first time. She does not know the name of
the accused. She also does not know what he is doing. Her
daughter used to go to school through the School Bus. Next day in
the evening Police recorded her statement at her home. Her
daughter did not make any such complaint before the said incident.
12. PW- 4 Sri Dinesh Chandra Sundariyal, Head Master of
Assam Rifle School, Charduar, LOkra, stated that he is the Head

Master of Assam Rifle School since 20" December, 2015. Accused
Page 6 of 20

Kali Charan Doom is known to him who was doing sweeper in their
school. Victim Miss “X” was a student of Class I standard of their
school at the time of the incident. Next day of the incident, on 3
May, 2016 the class teacher of class of victim, namely Mrs. Sanju
Rai informed him about the incident. The teacher informed him that
when victim went to toilet, the accused exposed his private parts
and asked her to touch his private parts. On the same day, the
guardian means the mother of the victim came to him and asked
that she wants to meet the class teacher of class I, then he asked
her to go and to meet the class teacher. Next day of the incident,
the father of the victim informed him over telephone. On=that very
day he informed the matter to the Authority and on the next day,
father of the victim physically came to him and‘reported about the
incident.

Though he has been exposed to) long cross-examination
except giving many suggestions the’ evidence as to the class
teacher of victim informed him, when victim went to toilet accused
exposed his private parts andvasked her to touch his private part
has remained unchallenged.

13. PW 5Mrs. Sanju Rai, stated before the court that she is the
class teacher of Glass — I of Assam Rifle School since 7" April, 2016.
In their-class’in the relevant time there were 40 numbers of
students. She knows the accused who was doing sweeper in their
schooly Victim Miss “X” was a student of Class I standard of their
school at the time of the incident. The incident took place on 2"
May, 2016. In the next day of the incident, on 3 May, 2016, the
mother of the victim informed her about the incident. She informed
her that when Manvi went to toilet, the accused exposed his private
parts and asked her to touch his private parts. Then she asked Miss
“X” personally about the incident. Then she took Miss “X” to outside
where the accused was sitting. Miss “X” identified the accused that
it is he who did such misdeed to her. On 2" May, 2016 Miss “X”

was present in the class and last hour she asked her for toilet and
Page 7 of 20

she permit her. Thereafter, she informed about the incident to their
Head Master D.C Sundariyal.

In cross-examination, she admitted that when Miss “X” went
to toilet there was about five to ten minutes to complete the school
class. When the school was over, students were going out, then
Miss “X” came back from toilet to collect her bag, during that time
she was present and she saw Miss “X” went out with her school
bag. Before leaving, Miss “X” good bye to her. Police recorded her
statement. During her service, she heard such type of allegation
against the accused for the first time. In the next day_of the
alleged occurrence, the accused was present and doing his:duty.
14. PW 6, the victim who was examined after making enquiry
to test her intelligence and ability to give-rational answers. She
stated before this court that she knows-the accused as he was a
sweeper of their school. The incident*took place about four months
ago. On the day of incident, she went to school. At the relevant
time she went to toilet with the permission from their class teacher.
Then accused came to the.bath room. Accused asked her to hold
his toilet. She clearly.stated that toilet means the organ by which
one discharged toilet. Then without touching the toilet she came
back to her class-room. After the school was over, while she went
to home-she. narrated the whole incident to her mother. Her mother
informed the matter to her father. Then her mother went to school
to_complain about the matter to her class teacher. After instituting
the case she was examined medically. She was also sent to the
learned Magistrate to record her statement. Ext. 5 is her statement
u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and Ext. 5(1) to 5(4) are her signatures. While her
statement was recorded, her mother was in outside but after giving
her statement her mother entered in the room where she gave
statement. In the statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C., her mother also put
signature. Ext. 5(5) is the signature of her mother.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination,
the evidence as to at the relevant time while she went to toilet with

permission of her class teacher, accused appeared before her and
Page 8 of 20

asked her to hold his organ whereby he discharged urine but she
did not hold his said organ instead she returned to her class and on
her arrival at home when the school was over, she narrated the
whole incident to her mother has remained unchallenged.

15. PW 7, Sri Meghnath Sona, who was also a school chowkidar
of the school where the incident took place stated that at the
relevant time he was doing labour at the Lokra Army School. In the
said school accused was also doing works. He was working outside
of the school so he cannot say what happened inside the school.
16. PW 8, the Investigating Officer, Aparna Natarajan, stated
before this court that on last 03-05-2016 she was.posted as IPS
Probasoner at Chariduar Police station as Incharge. On that day,
she received a written ejahar from one complainant Sri Subodh
Kumar Bhatt, Rifle man/General duty, Assam ‘Rifles alleging that on
2™4 May, 2016 at about 6 p.m. his wife Mrs. Subha Devi informed
him that his minor daughter, aged about 6 years, Miss Manvi Bhatt,
student of Class- 1 standard,;-had.been sexually harassed at around
1.15 to 130 p.m. in schoolhpremises when she had gone to relieve
herself in the bathroom. The name of the accused is mentioned as
Kalicharan Doom, ‘S/O Chandreswar Doom of No. 3 Tea garden,
Lokhra, Chariduars On being receipt the ejahar it was registered
vide Chariduar’ PS case 64/16 u/s 10 of POCSO Act and she herself
took«up. the investigation of this case. Ext. 4(2) is her signature with
note. After registration of the case she has proceeded to the place
of *occurrence i.e. the Assam Rifles School, Lokhra. She has
prepared the sketch map. Ext. 6 is the sketch map and Ext. 6(1) is
her signature. She has recorded the statement of victim and other
witnesses at the place of occurrence. She has also sent the victim
for medical examination. She has also sent the victim for recording
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. through her prayer Ext. 7 and Ext.
7(1) is her signature. Then she has also arrested the accused and
forwarded him to judicial custody. After completion of all the

formalities of the investigation, she has filed the charge-sheet
Page 9 of 20

against the accused Kalicharan Doom u/s 10 of POCSO Act. Ext. 8 is
the said charge-sheet and Ext. 8(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination, she admitted that at the relevant time
she was incharge of the General Diary of the Police station. She
being the senior Officer of that police station she was incharge of
the said police station. By virtue of incharge, she has registered the
said case. She put her signature in Ext. 4(2) as O/C of Police
station. The time of occurrence is around at around 1.15 to 130
p.m. on 2™ May, 2016 as it reveals from Ext. 4. Ext. 4 is received
by her at about 2.30 p.m on the next day i.e. about after.24 hours
of occurrence. The accused is an FIR named person. She has
recorded the statements of all the witnesses according to their
version. She came to know from investigation\that accused is a
sweeper of the school and in the schoolthere are two numbers of
sweepers. The victim identified this-accused in presence of her
mother. She has also interrogated the other sweeper.

17. PW9 Smt. J. Sarmahris the learned Judicial Magistrate who
recorded the statement of. victim, stated that on 04-05-2016 she
was working as Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur
and on that day inxreference to Chariduar PS Case No. 64/16, she
has recorded ‘the-statement of minor witness Miss Manvi Bhatt,
aged about\6 years, D/O Sri Subodh Bhatt of Assam Rifles, PS
Chariduar.)’The said witness was a student of class -I. As the said
witness was a minor of 6 years old so she has recorded her
statement after enquiry to test her intelligence and to give rational
answers. After making proper enquiry, she has recorded her
statement without on oath. At the time of recording her statement,
her mother Shobha Bhatt was also present. The witness was
identified by WPC 685 Jyotshna Borgohain. The said witness made
statement voluntarily. After recording her statement, she has read
over the contents of the statement to her and on satisfaction she
put her signature thereon. Ext. 5 is the statement of witness Manvi

Bhatt and Ext. 5(6) is her signature thereon. Ext. 9 is the relevant
Page 10 of 20

order of Special Judge, Sonitpur, Tezpur dated 04-05-2016 and Ext.
9(1) is her order and Ext. 9(2) is her signature.

18. | These much is the evidence of prosecution

19. Defence plea is total denial while his statement was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

20. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the
prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable
doubt. Firstly, the sole evidence of the victim cannot be relied on
as her statement made before the court is not tallied with the
statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Secondly, the victim could not
be able to identify the accused in any stage. Thirdly, there are
many contradictions in the statements of the witnesses.

21. On the other hand, learned Special«Public Prosecutor has
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case against the
accused beyond any reasonable doubt, hence, accused is required
to be convicted under the charged” section. Learned PP also
submitted that in fact there-is no enmity in between the accused
and the complainant. Evensif there is any strange relation between
the accused and complainant, it would not be expected from the
complainant to involve his own minor daughter in such a hatred
cases.

Learned Special PP again submitted that PWs 2 and 3 are
the father and mother of the victim, therefore, question may arise
to_their interestedness to succeed the case. To rely the interested
witnesses in convicting the accused, learned Special PP submitted
the case of Gali Venkataiah Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh
reported in 2008 Crl.L.J. 690. In regard to minor discrepancies,
learned Special PP also submitted the case law of State of UP V.
Krishna Master & ors reported in 2010 Crl.L.J.3889.

22. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the
learned counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the
case as follows.

23. After going through the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses,

it is seen except the victim, there is no eye witness to the incident,
Page 11 of 20

but after the incident, the victim informed about the incident to her
mother and lateron her mother informed the matter to her father
which are corroborated.

According to PW 2, the father of the victim, he knows the
accused. The incident took place on 2™ May, 2016. At the time of
incident, his daughter was 6 years of age and she studied in class I
standard at Assam Rifle School, Lokra. On that day he was on duty.
At about 5.30/6.00 p.m., he returned to his quarter and came to
know from his wife that while the cleaner of the school clean the
toilet their daughter/victim went to toilet and then accused exposed
his private parts and asked the victim to touch his private*parts. His
wife also reported that his daughter told her not to disclose the
matter to him. Next day, he along with his wife\went to the school
and complaint to the Head Master of Assam Rifle School by stating
whole incident. Thereafter, he lodged the FIR before police. Ext. 4
is the FIR and Ext. 4(1) is his signature. The FIR was written by
their Major Monish Biswas~as ‘per his instruction. Then, police
recorded the statement<of. his daughter, took her to doctor for
medical examination. and also sent to learned Magistrate for
recording her statement. Similarly, PW-3, mother of the victim,
stated that she.knows the accused Kali Charan Doom. The incident
took place on 2"? May, 2016. At the time of incident, her daughter
was 6\years of age and she studied in class I standard at Assam
Rifle School, Lokra. On that day she was at their quarter. After
returning from school she asked her daughter for changing her
school clothes. Then her daughter told her that she wanted to tell
something and asked her not to tell her father about the said
incident. Her daughter told her that while the cleaner of the school
was cleaning toilet she went to toilet and then accused exposed his
private parts and asked her to touch his private parts. Thereafter,
she returned from toilet. Similarly, the victim also narrated that she
knows the accused present in the dock. He is a cleaner of bath
room of their school. On the day of incident, she went to school. At

the relevant time she went to toilet with the permission from their
Page 12 of 20

class teacher. Then accused came to the bath room. Accused asked
her to hold his toilet. She clearly stated that toilet means the organ
by which one discharged toilet. Then without touching the toilet she
came back to her class room. After closing of the school at home
she informed to her mother about the incident. Accordingly, her
mother informed the matter to her father. Her mother also informed
the matter to her class teacher. Her statement is also corroborated
with the statement of other reporting witnesses i.e. PW 2 and 3.
Though all the aforesaid witnesses PW 2 and 3 were exposed to
long cross-examination but the evidence as to the victim on the day
of incident after closing of school informed about the.incident to her
mother (PW 3) and then her mother reported the matter to her
father (PW 2) has remained unchallenged.

24. Learned counsel for the accused \submitted that the
prosecution has failed to prove the age of the victim as they have
not been seized any school certificate or date of Birth certificate of
victim to ascertain the age. Therefore, the case cannot be stated to
be fallen under POCSO Act:

25. It is true that‘in the present case there is no documents like
Birth certificate orvage certificate or any certificate issued by the
School authority-where the victim last studied or any certificate
issued byslocal Panchayat etc. to prove the victim that she was 6
years at the time of incident. But the PW 1, the Doctor stated that
she.examined the victim, 6 years old female girl but her statement
does not show that she opined her age after proper scientific
ossification test. That has not been challenged by the defence at
any point of time. Therefore, it can safely be held that the victim
was a minor.

26. In the case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State,
represented by the Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD)
No.98 of 2015, it was held that it is true that primary evidence to
prove the date of birth of the individual may be preferably the birth
certificate. But, it cannot be said that in absence of birth certificate,

the date of birth cannot be proved. When the age of the individual
Page 13 of 20

is not disputed, the question of proving the same does not arise at
all. It is the settled law that a fact in issue or any relevant fact or
any fact relevant to the issue, which is disputed by the adverse
party alone, needs proof. If it is not disputed, there is no need to
lead any evidence in proof of the said admitted fact.

27. In this case, the victim and her parents categorically stated
the age of the victim as 6 years from the very beginning of the
case, at the time of commission of offence, besides during cross-
examination, the same has not been disputed at all by the accused
side. Thus, the evidence of PWs 1, 2 and 3 in respect of age of the
victim remains unchallenged.

28. _In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the
material particulars with regard to the incident ‘that on the day of
incident, while she went to toilet withthe permission of class
teacher where the accused was cleaning the toilet. Accused exposed
his private part, asked her to touch his private parts but she without
doing so return to class, thereby accused attempted to commit
sexual assault to her. After.closing the school she (victim) narrated
the whole incident to.her mother, thereafter, her mother reported
about the incident. to her father. The victim also made such
statement before-the learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. which was
confirmed» by learned Magistrate (PW 9). She has also made such
statement before the I.0. while her statement was recorded u/s 161
Cr.P.C> Though the victim has been vigorously cross-examined by
the learned counsel for the accused but the evidence as to while
she went to toilet she found accused in cleaning the bath room and
she was asked by the accused to touch his private parts by
exposing but she did not doing so instead went to her class room
and after closing of the school she narrated the whole incident to
her mother and her mother informed the matter to her father has
remained unchallenged. There is nothing in the evidence of the PWs
that the accused had any enmity or quarrel with the complainant to
file the case falsely against the accused. Therefore, defence of false

allegation is not made out.
Page 14 of 20

29. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan Vs.
Babu Muna (2013) 4 SCC 206, has observed as under :-

“9. We do not have any slightest hesitation in accepting the
broad submission of Mr. Jain that the conviction be based on the
sole testimony of the prosecutrix, it found to be worthy of credence
and reliable and for that no corroboration is required. It has often
been said that oral testimony can be clarified into three categories,
namely, (i) wholly reliable, (ii) whole unreliable and (iii) neither
wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable. In case of wholly reliable
testimony of single witness, the conviction can be found without
corroboration. This principle applies with greater in. terms in case
the nature of offence is such that it is committed in, seclusion. In
case prosecution is based on wholly unreliable testimony of single
witness but the court has no option to acquit the accused.”

30. Undoubtedly in a criminal trialany such lapse on the part of
accused is not leading any defence’ evidence would not have
mattered much as prosecutiomis Supposed to prove its case beyond
shadows of all reasonable doubts. However, in a case under POCSO
Act, the situation is not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to
refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

31. U/s. 29.0f.POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is,to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for
certaimoffences and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such
person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be, unless the contrary is proved.

32. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the
Special Court shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable
mental state of the accused where culpable mental state is required

on the part of the accused. Section 30 reads as under:
Page 15 of 20

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any
prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall
presume that existence of such mental state but it shall be a
defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such
mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that
prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be
proved only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond
reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established
by a preponderance of probabilities.

33. Similarly whenever any law prescribes that the Court shall
presume the existence of culpable mandatory state or to draw a
presumption regarding commission of “any offence, unless the
contrary is proved, the onus to prove the contrary undoubtedly
shifts upon the accused. Certainly, it does not discharge the
prosecution of its duty to first establish and prove the facts, the
existence of which can only.lead to drawing of any such compulsory
presumption or legal.presumption by the use of the expression
“shall presume”. Thus, as per Section 29, if a person is prosecuted
for committing, or abating or attempting to commit any offence
u/s.3, 5,-7 and 9 of POCSO Act, the Special Court shall presume
that such person has committed or abated or attempted to commit
thessaid offence as the case may be unless the contrary is proved.
However, in the present case, the accused has completely failed in
discharging his burden even by preponderance of probabilities much
less beyond reasonable doubt.

34. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be
recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness or not? Such issue
was dealt by the Hon’ble Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of
U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as
a determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On

the contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who
Page 16 of 20

may testify — all persons shall be competent to testify unless the
Court considers that they are prevented from understanding the
questions put to them, or from giving rational answers to those
questions, by tender years, extreme old age, disease, whether of
body or mind, or any other cause of the same kind.”

35. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she
has intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational
answers thereto. The evidence of a child witness is not required to
be rejected per se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers
such evidence with close scrutiny and only on being “convinced
about the quality thereof and reliability can record conviction, based
thereon.

36. In Dattu) Ramrao Sakhare ~ Vs» — State of
Maharashtra, (1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that a child witness
if found competent to depose to the facts and reliable one such
evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other words, even in
the absence of oath the evidence of a child witness can be
considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness
is able to understand‘the questions and able to give rational answer
thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof
would dependupon the circumstances of each case. The only
precaution, which the Court should bear in mind while assessing the
evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a reliable
one. and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent
witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored.

37. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs
— State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the
decision on the question whether the child witness has sufficient
intelligence primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his
manners, his apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and the
said Judge may resort to any examination which will tend to
disclose his capacity and intelligence as well as his understanding of

the obligation of an oath.
Page 17 of 20

38. Inthe present case, at the time of examination of the victim,
some questions were put to her and she replied the same without
any hesitation and this Court hold that the victim was able to give
rational answers and thereafter her statement was recorded without
oath. Apart from that, other witnesses including the parents of the
victim i.e. PW 2 and 3 also supported the evidence of PW 6 (victim).
Here in the present case as discussed above, the victim after
closing the school at home she reported the matter to her mother
and then her mother reported her father. Besides, that, PW. 4, the
School Head Mater of the school also stated that next day of
incident, the class teacher of the victim Smt. Sanju Raiinformed
him that when the victim went to toilet accused exposed his private
parts and asked the victim to touch his private parts and on the
same day, the guardian means the mother of the victim came to
him and asked that she wants to meet the class teacher of class 1
and then he allowed her to meet/the class teacher and accordingly,
she (mother of the victim) narrated the story to class teacher. The
class teacher(PW 5) alsoStated that the accused was their sweeper
and the victim was théir student. The incident took place on 2™
May, 2016. In the next day i.e. on 3 May, 2016 the mother of the
victim informed,her that while the victim went to toilet, the accused
exposed-his»private parts and asked her to touch his private parts.
On being came to know about the incident, she personally asked
the victim about the incident. Then she took the victim to outside
where the victim identify the accused that it is he who did such
misdeed to her. She also stated that at the last hour of the school of
2™4 May, 2016 she allowed the victim to go for toilet therefore, the
class teacher also supported the prosecution case.
39. On appreciation of the evidence given by the victim, her
parents and other independent witnesses i.e. the Head Master of
the School and class teacher, I find that the accused attempted to
sexual assault on the victim. As it appears from the statement of
the victim and other witnesses that accused exposed his private

parts and asked the victim to touch his private parts but the victim
Page 18 of 20

did not touch so, the offence of sexual assault is not completed but
the accused attempted to cause sexual assault.

40. In regard to the age of the victim, it appears that though
doctor stated that her age is 6 (six) years but that opinion is not
given after proper ossification test or on the basis of Radiological
report. That apart, the prosecution has failed to collect any of the
date of birth Certificate or Age Certificate of the victim.

41. Considering that aspect, the offence of the accused cannot
be stated to be attempted to commit aggravated sexual assault but
attempt to commit sexual assault. Therefore, accused Kalicharan
Doom @ Kalicharan Basfor is convicted u/s 18 of the POCSO Act.

42. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he
praying for leniency stating that he is the only bread earner of his
family, he has married just two days*.ago hence, praying for
leniency.

43. I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well as
learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur.

44. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court
should strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the
crime and.mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case,
so farsas the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor girl
was.sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only to the
body but also to the mind of not only to the victim but that of entire
family members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the
accused was hardly 35 years of age at the time of the incident. It is
not brought to the notice of this Court that before this incident, the
accused had committed any other offence. There is likelihood of his
reformation, but the statute u/s.18 of POCSO Act a punishment for any
description provided for the offence, for a term which may extend to
one-half of the imprisonment for life or, as the case may be, one-half
of the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence or with
fine or with both.
Page 19 of 20

ORDER

45. I convict the accused Kalicharan Doom @ Kalicharan Basfor
u/s. 18 of POCSO Act and sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for
Fifty seven days and to pay a fine of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees twenty
thousand only) in default Rigorous Imprisonment for another one
month.

It appears from the record that the accused has been in
custody since 04-05-2016 to 30-06-2016 i.e. for 57 days.

The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from
the period of imprisonment, imposed on him.
46. _ As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C; the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement
of witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get‘the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma. suffered by the victim, an
amount of Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees twenty five thousand) only is awarded
as compensation. The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority,
Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked toygive the compensation to the father of
the victim after proper enquiry.
47. A copy of this.judgment be furnished to the accused free of
cost and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur,
Tezpur, as per*provisions of law.

Given_under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 29"
day of November, 2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
pO Ol Ps GT ge Go

Page 20 of 20

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8
Prosecution Witness No.9

Exhibit 1

Exhibit 2

Exhibit 3

Exhibit 1(1) and 3(1)
Exhibit 4

Exhibit 4(1)

Exhibit 5

Exhibit 5(1) to 5(4)
Exhibit 5(5)

Exhibit 6

Exhibit 7

Exhibit 8
Ext:.6(1),7(1)& 8(1) :
ExIn9

Ext. 9(1)

Ext. 9(2)

i Dr. Tutumoni Handique.,

'- Sri Subodh Kr. Bhatta, complainant
- Smt. Sobha Devi,

- Sri Dinesh Chandra Sundariyal, .

= Mrs Sanju Rai,

= Victim

- Sri Meghnath Sona

= Aparna Natarajan, 1.0;

- Mrs J. Sarmah, Judicial\Magistrate.

EXHIBITS.

:- Medical report.

:- Vaginal smear report,

:- Police requisition

- Signatures of M.O.

- FIR

‘~..Singautre of complainant Sri Subodh Kr. Bhatta
> 164 Cr.P.C. statement of victim.

:> Signatures of the victim

:- Signature of Smti Sobha Devi.

:- Sketch map

:- Prayer of I.O. to record 164 cr.P.C. statement
:- Chargesheet.

- Signature of 1.0.

: - Relevant order of Special Judge, Sonitpru.

:- Order of learned Magistrate

:- Signature of Magistrate.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
