IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: KAMRUP(M), AT GUWAHATI

SESSIONS CASE NO.183/17
(Under Section u/s 354(D)/506 of IPC R/W Section 12 of the POCSO Act)

Present: S.P. Moitra,
Sessions Judge

Kamrup(M), Guwahati

State of Assam

-Vs =
Bablu Roy
nme Accused Person
Appearance for the Parties:
Advocate for the State : Sri H.K. Deka, Learned Public Prosecutor

Advocate for the accused: Sri Kankan Das, Sri Kush Ram Boro,

Learned Defence Counsels

Date of recording evidence : 09.02.2018
Date of Argument : 23.02.2018
Date of Judgment : 06.03.2018

JUDGMENT

1. Brief facts of the case of the prosecution, as emanated from the written
FIR (Ext.1), lodged by Smti. Munu Mandal, are that accused person named
above had been harassing the victim, her daughter (name withheld) with an
intention to compel her to love him. The informant requested him on many
occasions to remain away from her daughter, but instead of remaining away, he
started to harass the victim more. As the informant tried to resist him, he even
threatened the informant. On 25.06.2017 in the evening, the accused person

came to the house of the informant in search of her daughter and as she tried to
resist, the accused person uttered filthy language towards her and also towards

her mother and thereafter left the place after giving threat.

On the basis of the said information, Basistha P.S Case No.540/17 was
registered u/s 354(D)/506 of the IPC, r/w Section 12 of the POCSO Act and was
taken up for investigation. In course of investigation, the accused person was
arrested and was forwarded to judicial custody. The statement of the victim was
also recorded u/s 161 of the Cr.P.C. After completion of investigation of the case,
accused person was charge sheeted u/s 354 (D)/506 of the IPC, r/w Section 12
of the POCSO Act.

The accused person who was on Court bail entered appearance before the
Court. Copies of the relevant documents were furnished to the accused in
compliance to provisions of Section 207 of the Cr.P.C. On consideration of
charge, charge u/s 354(D)/506 of the IPC, r/w Section 12 of the POCSO Act was
framed. Charge was read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded

not guilty and stood to face the trial.

To bring home the charge, the prosecution examined, as many as, 4
witnesses on its behalf and also exhibited one document. The defence plea was
of complete denial of any guilt. The statement of the accused has been recorded
u/s 313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence adduced no evidence on its behalf. I heard

argument advanced by the Ld. Counsels for the parties.

Points for Determination

i) Whether on 25.06.2017 in the evening at House No.3, Udaynagar,
Koinadhara, Guwahati, the accused person used criminal force to
Smti. Munu Mandal intending to outrage her modesty and also

threatened her with intent to cause her harm?
6.

ii) Whether, the accused person named above caused sexual

harassment to the daughter of the informant?

Decisions and Reason thereof
I have gone carefully through the entire evidence on record and the
materials placed before me. For the sake of convenience and brevity, the

evidence on both the points are taken up together for discussion and decision.

PW.1 Munu Mandal is the informant of the case and her testimony reveals
that on 25.06.2017, the occurrence took place at about 8 p.m. She testified that
on that day her daughter was not in the house and then accused person went
there and asked her about her daughter. She further testified that the accused
person abused her in filthy language and thereafter went to the garage of the
husband and also abused him in filthy language. It is stated that the accused
person abused her husband by saying that her husband is a man of bad
character and if he could become the father of a girl, he ought to have known,
how to control the daughter. She stated that the accused person also threatened
her husband by saying that he would give a slap. It is further stated that the
accused person used to disturb her daughter from class 7 and they tried to
restrain him on many occasions and even gave a G.D Entry at the police station.
She added that instead of all these, the accused person did not stop. She stated
that as she tried to convince him by saying that her daughter was studying and
she should not be disturbed, the accused person did not stop. She added that as
threat was given, she lodged the FIR at Basistha P.S and proved Ext.1 as her
FIR. During cross examination, the witness admitted that while the accused
person was assaulting her husband in the garage, she was not present. She
added that one of her neighbour, namely, Piya told her. She added that her
husband also reported her about the incident. She further testified that her said
daughter was born on 22.09.1999. But although the witness stated that her

husband was threatened by the accused person and the accused person also
uttered obscene words towards her husband, her husband never came before
the Court to adduce evidence. As such, said facts remained uncorroborated.
Even so called Piya did not come to the Court to adduce evidence to prove the
same. Evidently, PW.1 did not see the occurrence on her own eyes and as such
her evidence regarding the occurrence in the garage remains hearsay and as

such not admissible in evidence.

8. PW.2 Namita Talukdar stated a complete different story in her evidence.
She stated that she heard from the informant that on 25.03.2017, her
(informant) daughter was found missing and as she herself along with her sister
went in search of the daughter, the accused person misbehaved with them.
Thus, the entire evidence of PW.2 has no connection with any occurrence

allegedly took place on 25.06.2017 and the story is also completely different.

9. PW.3 Sumi Das is the elder sister of the informant and she also did not
see the occurrence. However, she stated that her sister told her that the accused
person had misbehaved with her and her brother-in-law also told her that the
accused person had misbehaved with him. Thus, evidently she was also not

present at the time of the occurrence.

10. PW.4 is the victim herself (name withheld). She testified that she knew
the accused person and developed love for him. She specifically stated that the
accused person did not misbehave with her parents. She also added that he was
in love with her and as her parents were objecting in their relation, he only
scolded them. She specifically stated that nothing happened as stated in the FIR.
Thus, she failed to support the prosecution story. Although in the FIR, it is
specifically stated that the accused person not only uttered obscene language
towards informant, but also uttered obscene language towards her mother

Manju Das was not examined by prosecution.
11. On careful scrutiny of the entire evidence and materials on record, I find
that the prosecution miserable failed to adduce cogent corroborative evidence
disclosing the guilt of the accused person. The evidence of the informant did not
get any corroboration from any corner including her husband. Her evidence
remained fully uncorroborated. Even her evidence did not utter a single word
regarding outraging her modesty and as such no ingredient of Section 354 (D) of
the IPC could be proved by the prosecution. There is also no whisper regarding
the sexual harassment of the victim girl, rather the victim herself narrated a
complete different story regarding so called threatening or intimidation. I find
that there is nothing in the evidence of PW.1 that she was threatened by the
accused. So called threatening given to her husband was not proved by her

husband or anyone who had seen it.

12. In view of the discussions made above, I am constraint to hold that
accused Bablu Roy is not guilty of offence punishable u/s 354 (D)/506 of the IPC,
R/w Section 12 of the POCSO Act and accordingly he is acquitted and set at
liberty forthwith. Bail bond furnished on his behalf, will remain in force for the

next 6 months.

13. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open court on this 6" day of March,
2018 at Guwahati.

(S.P. Moitra)
Sessions Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati

Dictated & corrected by me.

(S.P. Moitra)
Sessions Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
(A)

(B)
(C)
(E)

(F)
(G)

APENDIX

Prosecution Exhibits :
Ext-1 :F.L.R

Defense Exhibit : Nil
Court Exhibit : Nil
Prosecution Witnesses:

PW-1 : Smt. Munu Mandal
PW-2 : Smt. Namita Talukdar
PW-3 : Smt. Sumi Das

PW-4 : Smt. Barnali Mandal

Defense Witnesses : Nil
Court Witnesses : Nil.
(S.P. Moitra)

Sessions Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
