Se

Ane

& <h
6 ” oe

‘is

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE trrssrtissstsrssssttttst:: HATLAKANDI

Special (POCSO)Case No. 02/2019.
U/S — 366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM
- Versus -

Ali Hussain Laskar sh aaaeee Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance _ and particulars :-
For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.

For the accused person :- Sri N.A. Mazumder, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidence :- 26.04.2019 & 07.02.2020.
Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC ~ 19.02.2020.
Date of Argument :- 19.02.2020.
Date of Judgment :- 19.02.2020.
JUDGMENT
: The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 27.04.2018 the

informant Jia Uddin Laskar lodged an ejahar with the O/c, Hailakandi Police Station
alleging that on 26.04.2018 at about 8 PM his minor daughter i.e the victim went to
out of the house to attend nature’s call but she did not return back and as such, the
informant made search for her but could not trace her out but subsequently, he

came to know that the accused Ali Hussain Laskar kidnapped the victim.

Contd...P/2.
 

Special (POCSO)Case No. 02/2019.
«Qs

2. On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as
Hailakandi Police Station Case No. 298/2018 under Sec. 366 of the IPC and

accordingly, police started investigation of the case.

3% During investigation, police visited the place of occurrence,
drew up rough sketch map thereof, recorded statements of witnesses including the
informant, got the victim medically examined and also got her statement recorded
by the Magistrate and after completion of investigation having been found prima
facie case laid the charge sheet against the accused person Ali Hussain Laskar
under Sec. 366, IPC.

4. On appearance of accused person, copies of relevant materials
in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to him.

5 After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence
Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record, having found sufficient
grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed the offence, the
formal charges have been framed against the accused person Ali Hussain Laskar
under Sec. 366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. The charges so
framed were read over and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

6. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined 3 Nos. of
PWs including the victim and the informant of the case. Thereafter, on submission
of Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence Counsel, the prosecution evidence was
closed. The accused person is examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has
denied the allegations and has stated that the case has been filed against him
falsely. The defence did not adduce any evidence.

7s Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.

Contd...P/3.
WV 6%

 

Special (POCSO)Case No. 02/2019.

Sun
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether on 26.04.2018 at about 8 PM the accused person
induced the victim to go with him with intent that she may be or knowing that she
would be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby the accused has
committed the offence punishable under Sec. 366(A),IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault
on the victim and thereby the accused has committed the offence punishable under
Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act?

DISCUSSION, REASONS AND DECISION THEREOF :-

9. The PW. 1, the victim has deposed that about one year back
one day at about 7/ 8 PM while she went out of her house to answer nature’s call,
the accused alongwith one unknown person appeared there and by gagging her
mouth, took her inside a jungle and while they were talking to each other at a little
distance, she ran to a nearby house and subsequently, police recovered her from the
house. During investigation, police got her medically examined and also got her
statement recorded by Magistrate vide Ext. 1.

In cross examination, the victim has stated that the persons

who took her had covered their face with cloths and it was dark night and as such,
she could not recognize them. It is further stated by the victim that subsequently,
she learnt that the accused person was not involved in the occurrence.
10. The PW. 2, Swapna Begum, the mother of the victim, has
stated that on the relevant night her daughter i.e. the victim went out of the house
to attend nature's call but she did not return back and accordingly, they made
search for her but could not find her out and accordingly, her husband lodged the
case.

Contd...P/4.
 

Special (POCSO)Case No. 02/2019.

“ @ =

The witness has stated in her cross examination that her
daughter i.e. the victim told her that she (the victim) went to her aunt’s house and
the accused was not involved in any occurrence.
11. The PW.3, the informant Zia Uddin Laskar has deposed that in
the relevant night at about 6.30 PM his daughter i.e. the victim went out of the
house to attend nature’s call but she did not return back and accordingly, he made
search for his daughter and came to know from the people that the accused
kidnapped his daughter and accordingly, he lodged the case vide Ext. 2. It is further
deposed by the informant that after 3 days, his daughter returned home and on
being asked, she told him that she went to the house of her maternal aunt and then,
he realized that the information which he received about the involvement of the
accused was false.
12, In the instant case, the prime witness i.e. PW. 1 is the victim
herself and her evidence bears much significance to prove the alleged commission of
the offence. Though the victim in her evidence in chief has implicated the accused
person but in her cross examination, she has unequivocally divulged that the
persons who took her had covered their face with cloths and it was dark night and
as such, she could not recognize them. Supporting the evidence of the victim, the
informant i.e. the father of the victim and her mother, the PW. 2 in their evidence
have stated that the accused person was not involved in the occurrence.
13. When the victim as well as her parents has not implicated
the accused person in their evidence with the commission of the alleged crime, I do
not find it appropriate to entangle the accused person with the guilt of commission
of the crime alleged.
14. Accordingly, the accused person. Ali Hussain Laskar is
acquitted of the offence under Sec. 366(A) IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.
Set him at liberty forthwith.

is. The bail bond of the accused person stands discharged.

Contd...P/5.
 

Special (POCSO)Case No. 02/2019.

= 5s

16. The Special (POCSO) case is disposed of accordingly.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court

under the seal of this Court and on my signature on this 19" day of February, 2020.

1
(qu

Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Dictation is taken and transcribed by Baharul Islam Choudhury,
Stenographer Grade I.

Contd....P/6.
 

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, the Victim.

PW. 2, Swapna Begum Laskar &
PW. 3, Zia Uddin Laskar.
Documentary evidences :-
Ext. 1- Statement of the victim

Ext. 2- Ejahar.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

Special (POCSO) Case No. 02/2019.
-6-

ie ,
\\-

Special Judge, Hailakandi.
