IN THE COURT OF THE ASSISTANT SESSIONS JUDGE,
LAKHIMPUR, NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

Present :- Shri J. Borah, A.J.S.,
Asstt. Sessions Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

 

Sessions Case No.211(NL)2013.
U/S-376(2)(f) of I.P.C.

The State of Assam,

-VS-
Krishna Nayak,
.... Accused.
Date of framing Charge - 23.12.2013.
Date of recording Evidence - 10.01.2014, 13.02.2014,
26.02.2014, 04.03.2014.

Date of Argument - 15.03.2014.
Date of Judgment - 18.03.2014.
Advocate for the State :- Mr. B. Borah, Ld. Addl. P.P.
Advocate for the Accused :- Mr. D. Hazarika, Ld. Advt.

JUDGMENT:
1. This case is u/s-376(2)(f) of IPC so the name of the

victims is not mentioned here and she is hereinafter called the victim.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that Padma Borah,
the informant lodged an ejahar before the In-charge, Bandardewa
Police Out Post on 09.10.2013 informing that the victim is his minor
daughter, aged about eight years. On 09.10.2013 at about 10:00 A.M.
the accused Krishna Nayak took his daughter to the jungle by inducing
her and he committed rape on her in the jungle. One Chandra Bahadur
Ray witnessed the said occurrence. The said Chandra Bahadur Ray
told the villagers about the occurrence and the villagers caught the

accused Krishna Nayak and handed over him to the police.

Contd...
2

The Bandardewa Police Out Post received the
ejahar vide GDE No.163, dated 9.10.2013 and forwarded the same to

the Officer-in-charge, Bihpuria Police Station.

3. The Bihpuria Police Station received the ejahar and
registered the same vide Bihpuria P. S. Case No.2522013, u/s- 376 of
IPC read with Section 3 of Protection of Children from Sexual Office
Act,2012. The Bihpuria Police Station also investigated the case and
having found prima facie u/s- 376 of IPC read with Section 3 of
Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012 against the

accused Krishna Nayak , laid the charge sheet before the court for trial.

4. The accused Krishna Nayak, hereinafter called the
accused, appeared before the court of the Sub-Divisional Judicial
Magistrate(S), Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur and he was fumished
copy. The learned Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate(S) having found
the case u/s- 376 of IPC read with Section 3 of Protection of Children
from Sexual Offence Act, which is triable exclusively by the court of
Sessions, committed the case to the court of Hon'ble Sessions Judge,

Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

5. The Hon'ble Sessions Judge, Lakhimpur, North
Lakhimpur received the case and transferred the same to this court for
trial.

6. The accused person appeared before this court.

Charge was framed w/s- 376(2)(f) of IPC against the accused. The
charge was read over and explained to the accused person to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

7. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge

against the accused persons, examined seven witnesses, namely-

1. Dip Kalita, PW1.
2. Padma Borah, PW2.

Contd...
3

3. Dhan Bahadur Ray, PW3.
4. Chandra Bahadur Ray, PW4.
5. The victim, PW5.
6. Dr.(Smti) Banani Sharma, PW6.
7. Badrul Islam Mazumdar, PW7.
8. The accused person was examined w/s- 313 of

Cr.P.C. and his statement was recorded where he denied all allegations
levelled against him in the evidence adduced by the prosecution

witnesses and declined to adduce evidence in defence.

9. Heard argument for both sides.
10. Points for determination:

1. Whether the accused person on 9.10.2013 at
about 10:00 A.M. Committed rape on the victim, a
minor girl below 12 years in the jungle at Balijuri
near Pathali Pahar Adorsha gaon and _ thereby
committed offence u/s- 376(2)(f) of I.P.C.

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

11. In this prosecution case, PW2 Padma Borah is the
informant and PW5 is the alleged victims. PW1 Sri Dip Kalita, PW3
Sri Dhan Bahadur Ray and PW4 Sri Chandra Bahadur Ray are the
independent witnesses. PW6 Dr.(Smti) Banani Sharma _is the medical
and health officer and PW7 Badrul Islam Mazumdar is the
investigating officer.

PW2 Padma Borah, being the informant and PW5,
being the alleged victim and PW5 Chandra Bahadur Ray, being the
only eye witness are the prime and vital witnesses in this prosecution

case. So, let us go through the evidence of this three witnesses at first.

12. PW2, Padma Borah has stated in his evidence that
the victim is his daughter, aged about seven years. PW2 has also stated
in his evidence that the occurrence took place three months ago ( from
the date of adducing his evidence before the court on 10.1.2014). PW2

has also stated that on the day of occurrence the accused took his

Contd...
4

daughter, the victim to the hill side and in the jungle of the hill the
accused committed rape on his daughter, the victim. PW2 has also
stated that one Chandra Bahadur Ray saw the act of the accused on the
alleged victim and accordingly, he informed about the occurrence.
PW2 has also stated that at the time of occurrence he went for daily
wage work. PW2 has also stated that when he came to know about the
occurrence he called one Dip Kalita to his house. PW2 has also stated
that the villagers caught the accused and handed over him to the police.

In his cross PW2 has stated that the accused lives
nearby their house. PW2 has denied in his cross that the accused did
not do any evil act on his daughter. PW2 has also denied in his cross
that he has adduced false evidence.

PWS5, the alleged victim has stated in her evidence
that the informant is her father and she knows the accused. PW5 has
also stated that on the day of occurrence towards afternoon she was in
the shop of uncle Arjun. PW5 has also stated that the accused took her
from the said shop and he took her to the hill stands nearby. PW5 has
also stated that the accused put of her pent and he fell on the ground
and took her on him and thereby he committed evil deed on her. PW5
has also stated that Chandra Bahadur Ray saw when the accused did
evil deed on her. PW5 has also stated that after doing evil deed on her
the accused took her to their house.

In her cross PW5 has stated that the accused used to
come to their house. PW5 has also stated that the accused took her in
his arms. PW5 has denied in her cross that the accused did not do any
evil deed on her. PW5 has also stated that she has adduced her
evidence as her father taught her to say.

PW4, Chandra Bahadur Ray has stated in his
evidence that he knows both the accused and the informant as well as
the alleged victim. PW4 has also stated that the victim is the daughter
of Padma Borah. PW4 has also stated that on the day of occurrence he
went to the side of the hill stands nearby to cut grass for his cattle and
on his way to the jungle he saw the alleged victim. PW4 has also

stated that he saw that the accused was sleeping on the ground taking

Contd...
3

the alleged victim on him. PW4 has also stated that the accused was
doing sexual act on the victim. PW4 has also stated that after cutting
grass he came back home and informed about the occurrence to the
mother of the alleged victim. PW4 has also stated that the villagers
gathered in the courtyard of the accused in the evening of the same day.
PW4 has also stated that he informed the villagers and thereafter the
villagers handed over the accused to the police.

In his cross PW4 has stated that the accused is a
physically handicap person and he suffered infirmity both in legs and
hands. PW4 has also stated that he had good relation with the
informant Padma Borah. PW4 has denied in his cross that he did not

see to do evil act on the victim by the accused.

13. Thus, minute scrutiny of evidence of PW2, 4 and
PWS5, it transpires that PW2 Padma Borah is the informant. He did not
see the occurrence rather he came to know about the occurrence from
one Chandra Bahadur Ray. So, PW4 Chandra Bahadur Ray is the
pivotal witness in this prosecution case. According to PW4 Chandra
Bahadur Ray on the day of occurrence towards 7 to 8 A.M., he went to
the jungle by the side of the hill to cut grass for the cattle and on his
way he saw the accused Krishna Nayak was lying on the ground taking
the alleged victim on him doing sexual act on her. According to PW4
he bullied the accused for such act and then he left the place.

The important things in the evidence of PW4 is that
he did not do anything to the accused while he saw the accused doing
evil act on the victim, rather he left the place mere bulling the accused.
So, behaviour of this witness PW4 is strange enough. PW4 is an adult
person and he is 45 years old. So, he could have done anything to
rescue the alleged victim from the custody of the accused, but he left
the said place mere saying something to the accused. So, the evidence
of PW4 is very strange enough.

It has already been mentioned that PW4 is an adult
person, aged about 45 years and the accused is also an adult person,

aged about 30 years, but he is physically handicap. PW4 himself has

Contd...
6

stated in his evidence that the accused has got infirmity both in his legs
and hands. So, question of fearing by PW4 to the accused does not
arise. PW4 could have done anything to rescue the alleged victim from
the accused person, but he did nothing rather he left the place
doing anything to the accused.

So, the evidence of PW4 is very confusing. There is
no evidence adduced by PW4 that the accused threatened him or did
anything to him for which he had to left the place of occurrence.
Rather PW4 left the place doing anything to the accused person. In
the evidence of PW4 it appears that he informed the parents of the
alleged victim and the villagers about the occurrence. If PW4 could
have informed the villagers and the parents of the alleged victim, he
could have done at level best to save the girl from the evil deed of the
accused person, but according to PW4 he did nothing. So, the
evidence of PW4 is not beyond doubt. So, let us go for consideration

of the evidence of PW5, the alleged victim.

14. According to PW5, the alleged victim when she was
in the shop of one Arjun uncle the accused had taken away her to the
jungle. There is no evidence adduced by the prosecution side whether
anybody including Arjun uncle saw the accused to take the victim with
him to the jungle. But there is no evidence adduced by the prosecution
side in this regard. The prosecution has not examined the witness
Arjun. There is no evidence whether the shop of Arjun was opened at
the time of occurrence. There is no evidence adduced by prosecution
whether anybody was present at the time when the accused had taken
away PWS5, the alleged victim to the jungle. All this things remained

in dark.

15. Another aspect is that the accused Krishna Nayak is
physically handicap. His legs and hands are not usual, rather they have
got some infirmities. PW5 the alleged victim has stated in her
evidence that the accused took her in his arms while taking her to the

jungle.

Contd...
7

From the evidence of PW4, Chandra Bahadur Ray it
is clear that the distance between the place of occurrence and the house
of the informant is approximately 200 metres. So, taking away a girl
of aged seven to eight years by a physically handicap man is some

what impossible.

16. Another vital aspect is that time of occurrence.
According to PW4 Chandra Bahadur Ray it was the
morning when he went to cut grass, he saw the occurrence. According
to PW5 when she was in the shop of one Arjun in the afternoon, she
was taken away by the accused. So, there is no corroboration between
the evidence of PW4 and PW5 regarding the time of occurrence. This
gulf of evidence between PW4 and PW5 creates doubt in the

prosecution case.

17. The most important evidence adduced by PW5 is
that she has clearly stated in her evidence that she has been taught to
adduce evidence by her father. So, the evidence of PW5 is not free,
rather she has been tutored by her father to adduce evidence. So, such
tutored evidence is not free from malign and it is difficult to accept
such malign evidence. PW5 the alleged victim is a minor girl, so
there is every possibility to tutor her evidence by her elders. In her
cross PW5 has clearly stated that she has adduced evidenced as her
father taught her to say. So, her evidence is not free rather her

evidence is tutored one.

18. For sake of argument, if it is accepted that the
accused had sexual act on PW5, the alleged victim, let us see the
evidence of PW6, Dr. (Smti) Banani Sharma, the medical and health

officer, who examined PWS, the alleged victim.
19. It has already been mentioned that the accused is an

adult person, aged about 30 years and the alleged victim is a minor,

aged about eight to nine years. In such a situation, if there had been

Contd...
8

any sexual act on PW5 by the accused, there might have been some

injuries on PWS, either on her private parts or any part of her body.

20. PW6,Dr.(smti)Banani Sharma has stated as follows-

“ Tdentification mark- small black mole over left
side of neck. Height- 3 ft., 6 inches, weight- 11 kg. General
configuration is good. ‘Teeth- 24 Nos., breast- small, axillary hair
absent and pubic hair absent. Vulva- normal, vagina admits tip of one
finger, hymen present, uterus not palpable per abdomen.

Laboratory examination for spermatozoa detection-
no spermatozoa seen. Ossification test for age determination- no X ray
report submitted. External injury nil.

Opinion- there is no sign of recent forceful sexual
intercourse. Her age could not be ascertained as X ray report not
submitted. No injury detected.”

PW6 has exhibited the medical report as Ext.2 and
Ext.2(1) is her signature.

Thus, the evidence of PW6, the medical and health
officer Dr.(Smti) Banani Sharma shows that she examined the victim ,
PW5 on 10.10.2013. According to the ejahar, Ext.1 the occurrence
took place on 9.10.2013 i.e. the victim was examined immediately by
the medical and health officer, PW6, but she found no external injury
on PW5. The hymen of the victim was present. Even PW6 has of
opinion that she found no evidence of recent forceful sexual
intercourse onPW5. So, according to PW6, the medical and health
officer, there was no external injury on PW5. If there had been any
sexual intercourse on a minor girl, aged about seven years by an adult
person, there must be some injuries either on her private parts or any
part of her body. But according to PW6, she found no external injury
on PW5. So, the evidence of PW6 makes clear that there was no

sexual intercourse on PW5.

21. The earlier discussion shows that the evidence of

PWS5 is not natural and spontaneous but it is tutored one. The evidence

Contd...
9

of the eye witness PW4 Chandra Bahadur Ray is also found not

convincing and reliable.

22. Considering all aspects, it leads to conclusion that
the prosecution evidence cannot be taken into confident to clutch the
accused u/s- 376(2)(f) of IPC. The prosecution evidence is not trust

worthy and reliable, rather such evidence is imbibed with doubt.

23. The prosecution, thereby, has failed to prove it's
case u/s- 376(2)(f) of IPC against the accused person beyond all

reasonable doubt.

24. Held that the accused is not guilty u/s- 376(2)(f) of
LPC.
Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at

liberty.

25, The bail bond stands cancelled and the bailor is
discharged from all liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and Seal of this court on this

18" day of March, 2014.

( J. BORAH, AJS.)
ASSISTANT SESSIONS JUDGE,
LAKHIMPUR, N. LAKHIMPUR.

Contd...
