IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE NAGAON.
Present- A. Rahman, LL.M, AJS

Special (POCSO ) case No- 88(N) / 2018.
U/S- 366 IPC r/w section 6 of the POCSO Act.

Parties -

Raj Nath @ Raju Nath

Charge framed on - 12-10-2018.

Evidence recorded on - 17/11/2018, 26/11/2018,
01/12/2018, 07/01/2019,
02/07/2019, 16/10/2019,
30/10/2019

Argument heard on - 05-11-2019
Judgment delivered on - 19-11-2019

Appearance -

For the prosecution- Mr. M.J. Neog , learned special
prosecutor.

For the defence - Mrs. S. Khanam, learned legal aid
counsel
J U D G M E WN T

Prosecution case in precise is that, one Miss X (Actual name is
withheld), the minor daughter of complainant PW-1 missing from
his house at village Deuri Silabandha under Koliabor PS on
24/05/2018 at about 9.30 AM. The informant, relatives and
neighbours were searching her but did not get any clue. On the
Same day accused Raj Nath @ Raju Nath, who is the brother in
law (Wife’s younger brother) of PW-1 had also gone out from his
house with a view to visiting his work-place . Subsequently
police recovered the victim girl from the rented house of accused
at Naharlagun, Arunachal Pradesh. The accused and victim were
brought to Koliabor PS.

On the basis of Ext-1 Ejahar lodged by the complainant, Koliabor
PS case no 62/2018 U/S 366 IPC was registered. ASI Raju Kumar
Nath was entrusted to take up preliminary investigation of the
case. During the investigation the statement of the victim and
other witnesses were recorded U/S 161 CrPC. The victim was
sent to Nagaon BPCH for her medical examination. She was also
produced before the learned Magistrate and her statement was
recorded U/S-164 crpc. IO also seized HSLC admit card of the
victim issued by S.E.B.A. The accused was forwarded to court for
judicial custody. After completing the investigation police
submitted charge sheet against accused Raj Nath @ Raju Nath
U/S 366 IPC r/w section 8 of the POCSO Act.

Thereafter, the instant Special case was registered. The case
record was transferred to this special court for trial. On the basis
of the oral prayer of the accused for legal aid who was in the Jail
custody, Smt. S. Khanam, legal aid empanelled advocate of
DLSA, Nagaon was appointed to defend the accused during the
trial.

Considering the materials on record, charges under section 366
IPC r/w section 6 of the POCSO Act were framed, read over and
explained to the accused to which he has pleaded not guilty and
claim to be tried.

The prosecution side, in order to prove the case against the
accused, examined all together seven witnesses and also
exhibited FIR, HSLC admit card and medical examination report
of the victim girl.

The accused denied the allegations of the prosecution while he
was examined U/S 313 CrPC. The defence plea is that the
alleged victim voluntarily went to Harmoti of Lakhimpur district
and met him there. He has admitted that, she was staying with
him at a rented house in Naharlogun but there was no sharing of
physical relation between them. The accused also adduced his
evidence as DW-1.

| have heard Mr. M.J Neog, learned special prosecutor as well as
Smt. S. Khanam, learned legal aid counsel for the accused. |
have also meticulously gone through the evidence. Now the
point for determination are as follows.

l.

Whether accused kidnapped the victim, the minor daughter of
the complainant from his house on 24/05/2018 at village
Deuri Silabandha to Naharlogun, Arunachal Pradesh intending
and or knowing that she would be forced/seduced to illicit
intercourse with him and thereby committed offence
punishable U/S 366 IPC.

. Whether the accused having kidnapped the said minor

committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon the
said minor victim in his rented house at Naharlogun,
Arunachal Pradesh and thereby committed offence punishable
U/S 6 of the POCSO Act.

DECISION & REASONS THEREOF-
1. Considering the charges framed against the accused, the
facts and circumstances of the case and also for the sake of
convenience, both the said two points are being discussed
together.
Before entering upon analysis and appreciation of evidence, it
is necessary to take a glimpse of the relevant evidence of the
witnesses.
Victim Miss-X was examined as PW-3.
PW-1 and PW-4 (name withheld) are father and mother of PW-
3 respectively.
2. PW-3 deposed that the occurrence took place about six
months back ( her evidence was recorded on 1-12-2018).
Accused is her own maternal uncle. She has stated that she
had appeared her HSLC Examination in 2018 and the next day
was the result -day of her HSLC examination. On the relevant
day of occurrence, her maternal uncle went from their house
to catch vehicle for travelling to Arunachal. When she came
out from her house to Kuwaritol to purchase chips and to hand
over a bag to her aunt, he stated to her that she should
accompany him to Arunachal other wise her father would
severally beat her if she becomes unsuccessful in her
examination. Accordingly, her uncle by a traveller-bus took her
to Harmoti and kept her for in the house of his relative for one
week. 3.Thereafter, he took her to Naharlagun of
Arunachal and kept her in a rented house for about twenty
days as his wife. He put vermilion on her head and committed
sexual intercourse with her during night in drunken state
despite her objection. She has further stated that her uncle did
not allow her to use his mobile phone to communicate with
her family. She could not report the occurrence to the local
people as she does not know their local language.

4. She has further stated that her father with the help of
Koliabor police, rescued her from the rented house of the
accused and brought her along with him to Koliabor police
station. She was medically examined at Nagaon Civil Hospital.
She has also confirmed that Ext-3 is her statement before the
Magistrate and Ext-3(1) to Ext-3(4) are her signatures. She
has further stated that her date of birth is 11-9-2-2001.

5. During her cross examination, she replied that she did not
object when her maternal uncle (accused) pursuaded her to
go with him and she accompanied him.

She has denied all the relevant suggestions.

6. PW-1 inter-alia that the occurrence took place about five
months back from the date of his evidence before the court.
The accused being his younger brother in law (wife’s younger
brother) had been staying at his house for about one month
immediately prior to the occurrence. On the relevant morning,
he dropped the accused at Noltoli so as to catch a bus for
going to Arunachal Pradesh where he was working as driver of
Little Flower School. When he returned home, he found his
daughter (PW-3) was missing from his house and till evening,
She did not return home. Although he accompanied by his
neighbour was searching for his daughter but she could not
be found. So he informed Koliabor police about missing of his
daughter. After one week of the occurrence, he came to know
that PW-3 was staying with the accused at Naharlagun , so he
lodged Ext-1 FIR at Koliabor police station. He has confirmed
that Ext-1(1) is his signature. After one month of the
occurrence, with the help of Koliabor police and also police
personnel of Naharlagun police station, his victim daughter
was recovered from the rented house of the accused. After
recovery, his daughter disclosed to her that the accused had
done bad work (sexual inter course) with her. His daughter
was born on 11-9-2001. He has also submitted -Ext-2 (proved
in original), HSLC Examination admit card of her daughter.

In cross examination, he denied the suggestion that he has
falsely deposed that the accused committed bad work with
his daughter.

7. PW-2 Hema Kanta Bora is the neighbour of PW-1. He is not
an eye witness to the occurrence. He has deposed that the
occurrence took place about six months prior to his deposition
before the court. PW-1 reported to him that his daughter (PW-
3) had been taken away by her maternal uncle.

8. PW-4 is the mother of PW-3 as well as the elder sister of the
accused. She has inter alia deposed that about two months
prior to the occurrence, his younger brother (accused) along
with his three years old son had been staying at her house.
On the relevant day of occurrence , her husband had dropped
her brother at Noltoli for catching a bus as he wanted to visit
Arunachal Pradesh. Her daughter (PW-3) also went out to
bring a chips and to deliver a bag to her aunt. But she did not
return home till evening. She disclosed the fact to her
husband (PW-1) who was searching her in the neighbourhood.
But she could not be found. After 10/11 days of lodging
ejehar, her husband with the help of police rescued PW-3 from
Arunachal.

8. Her accused brother was also brought from Arunachal
Pradesh. On being asked, her daughter (PW-3) disclosed that
she had gone with her maternal uncle on the apprehension
that her father might assault her as she might fail in the
mathematics paper. She (PW-3) also stated that at Arunachal,
her uncle was dealing with her as his wife after putting
vermilion on her head.

9. In cross examination, she denied the suggestion that the
accused neither kept her daughter as his wife at Arunachal
Pradesh nor he did
bad work (sexual intercourse) with her.

10. PW-5 Ratna Kanta Saikia, is the Sarkari gaon burah of
Deori Sialndha -village. He is a reported witness. According to
him, the occurrence took place about seven months back. PW-
1 reported him that on the day of occurrence, the accused
had gone to Noltoli and after two hours, his daughter(PW-3)
also became missing. After two /three days of occurrence, PW-
1 again reported to him that he had got information his
daughter was staying in Arunachal Pradesh. He has
confirmed that Ext-4 is the seizure list and Ext-4(1) is his
Signature.

11. Dr. Bhaswati Sarmah (PW-6) , M &HO-I, Nagaon B.P.Civil
Hospital examined PW-3 on 24 -06-2018 at about 2 pm in
connection with Koiliabor PS case No- 62/18 U/S-366(A) IPC.
The victim was escorted an identified by WPC/448 Pompi
Terongpi. On examination of the victim , PW-6 found the
followings-
Identification mark- one mole on each of the right side and
left side
of the nose;

12. Height 150 cm, weight- 40kg , Teeth -15/16.

Breast developed and no injury; Auxiliary hair present ; pubic
hair present;

Hymen -no recent tear , vaginal injury -none.

Marks of violence none.

Clothing leggings and top ; LMP -24-6-2018

Vaginal smear examination vide- Regd No- 13476 reported by
pathologist Dr.J. Hussain shows -no spermatozoa

13. Opinions- there is no sign of any recent sexual
intercourse, there is no sign of violence on her private parts.

She has confirmed that Ext-5 is the medical report and Ext-
5(1) is her signature. She has also made it clear that “ no
recent tear means -old tear)

Defence side declined cross examination of PW-6.

14. ASI Raju Kr. Nath (PW-7) has deposed that on 2-06-2018,
he was working as ASI at Koliabor police station, the officer in
charge, Inspector Dinabandhu Bhuyan registered the case
and endorsed him to investigate. He has confirmed that Ext-1
is the FIR and Ext-1(2) is the signature of Dinabandhu
Bhuyan. He has testified that during the investigation, he
visited the place of occurrence drew Ext-6 sketch map and
recorded the statement of witnesses. He also seized the HSLC
admit card of the victim from the possession of the
complainant vide Ext-4 seizure list. Ext-4(2) is his signature.
After keeping Xerox-copy, he gave zimma of the original to
him. On 206-2018, he came to know that accused Raju Nath
@ Raj Nath , who is the maternal uncle of the victim was
keeping her at Naharlagun, Arunachal Pradesh.

15. On 23-6-2018 , he accompanied by a section of battalion
party and the complainant went to Naharlagun. With the help
of Nagarlagun police , he apprehended the accused from
nearby campus of Little Star school. Thereafter, on being led
by the accused, the victim was recovered from his rented
house .The victim and the accused were brought to Koliabor
police station. The victim was sent to Nagaon B.P. Civil
hospital for her medical examination. She was produced
before the court and her statement was recorded U/S-164
crpc. He also arrested the accused. After collecting the
medial examination report of the victim he handed over the
case diary to the officer in charge of the police station. He has
also testified that SI Mir Sikander Ali submitted charge sheet
u/s-366(A)IPC read with S- 8 of the POCSO Act. Ext-7 is the
charge sheet and Ext-7(1) is his signature SI Mir Sikander Ali.

16. In his cross examination, he has made it clear that the
victim in her previous statement before him did not state that
she could not inform Arunachali people as she does not know
their local language. She also did not state that despite her
strong objection, the accused committed physical intercourse
with her.

17. Smt. S. khanam, learned counsel for the defence
contended that the prosecution failed to prove PW-3 was
below 18 years on the relevant date of alleged occurrence.
Prosecution did not produce her birth certificate. Moreover,
during investigation stage also her age through ossification
test was not ascertained. On the other hand, her conduct
clearly proves that she was major and_ voluntarily
accompanied with her maternal uncle -accused to Harmoti
and then Naharlagun. Therefore, learned defence counsel
Submitted that prosecution has failed to prove the alleged
offence against the accused and he is entitled to acquittal
from the aforesaid charges on benefit of doubt. Further
contention raised by learned defence counsel was that Ext-2
is merely an Admit card of HSLC examination enabling PW-3
to sit in the examination. So it can not be treated at par with
a certificate.

18. On the other hand refuting the above submissions, Mr.
M.J. Neog , learned Special prosecutor argued Ext-2proves
that PW-3 was born on 11-9-2001. So she was below 18 years
on 24-5-2018. Learned Special prosecutor further submitted
that production birth certificate is not always essential for age
proof.

19. Ext-2 although is not the certificate but the HSLC
Examination Admit Card for the year 2018 issued by SEBA
[ Board of Secondary Education , Assam] on 16" February
2018. The authority recorded the date of birth of PW-3 to be
on 11-09-2001 on the basis of the relevant/entry and record
supplied by Madhya Kaliabor High School where PW-3 was
schooling.

20. PW-1 , father of PW-3 submitted the original of Ext-2 at
the time of his evidence before the court. So it appears that
he has stated that she was born on 11-9-2001 probably on
the basis of the said document. At any rate, the said
statement of PW-1 goes unchallenged during’ cross
examination.

21. PW-4 was silent as to the age of her daughter. PW-3
stated that she was 17 years (her evidence was recorded on
1-12-2018) and her date of birth is 11-9-2018. Defence side
did not cross examine her said testimony.

22. In the case of Mahdeo -vs- State of Maharashtra and
Others [ 2013 ] 11 SCC 637, has held that Rule 12(3)(b) of
the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Rules 2007 can be
rightly followed by the courts for the purpose of ascertaining
the age of victim as well.

Therefore, in view of the clear ruling of the Hon’ble Supreme
court , we can rightly and safely rely on Ext-2 for the purpose
of ascertaining the age of PW-3.

23. As per Ext-2, PW-3 was born on 11-9-2001. Therefore, on
24-5-2018, being the date of occurrence, she was 16 years 8
months and 13 days.

So it is proved that PW-3 was a child as defined U/S- 2(d) of
the POCSO Act on the date of occurrence.

24. PW-3 in her statement (Ext-2) recorded U/S-164 crpc has
clearly stated that on 24-05-2018 , her maternal uncle
(accused) in the morning went out from their house. She also
went out and met him at Kunwaritol as per previous plan.
Then they went to Harmoti.

25. After she had been recovered, she stated to her mother
(PW-4) that she went away with her maternal uncle
apprehending that she would be thrashed and scolded by her
father if she fails in mathematics.

Considering the above evidence, it appears that PW-3 , on 24-
5-2018 voluntarily eloped with the accused. So prosecution
has failed to prove that the accused has committed the
offence U/S-366 IPC.

26. It is established from the evidence of PW-3 that the accused
took her to Naharlagun and kept her in a rented house. The
accused also admitted in his statement U/S-313crpc that he
along with PW-3 were staying in his rented house at Naharlagun.
It reveals from her evidence that the accused put vermilion and
committed sexual intercourse at his rented house and behaved
with her as his wife. He used to commit sexual intercourse her
on every night. In Ext-2 statement, she simply stated that
physical relation happened between her and the accused. After
recovery ,she stated before her mother (PW-4) the accused put
vermilion and behaved with her as wife. Thus, it is proved from
the evidence of PW-3 that the accused indulged in sexual
intercourse with her , as his wife , more than once. The accused
is the own maternal uncle of PW-3. There is no reason why she
would falsely implicate him in sexual intercourse with her. As per
her evidence, it becomes crystal clear that the accused
committed sexual intercourse with her for more than once.

29. Accused Raj Nath (DW-1) in his cross examination clearly
stated that she along with her niece (PW-3) were staying at his
rented house for about one week and there was none with them.

30. Aforesaid medical evidence of PW-6 and Ext-5 reveal that
there was no recent tear on her hymen and no injury on her
private parts was seen at the time of examination. PW-3 was
recovered on 23-6-2018 from Naharlagun and brought to
Koliabor. She was examined by PW-6 only on 24-6-2019 more
than 12 hours from the night of 23 -6-2018. Therefore, absence
of injury on her private parts is quite possible.

31. Now coming to S-29 of the POCSO Act , we find that it is the
statutory presumption that when the accused is prosecuted for
the offence under sections 3, 5, 7 and Section 9 of the Act, the
Special court shall presume that such person has committed or
abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may
be. The evidence of PW-3 coupled with the statutory
presumption proves that the accused has committed the offence
U/S-5 of the Act. The defence side has failed to rebut the
presumption.

32. The above analytical discussion of evidence and observation,
it is found that the prosecution has been able to prove beyond all
reasonable doubt that the accused has committed the offence
punishable U/S 6 of the POCSO Act. So he is convicted
accordingly. However, he is acquitted from the charge under S-
366IPC.

33. Hearing on sentence;

Heard accused on point of sentence. It is submitted that he is
innocent. He has one minor daughter and one minor son. There
is none to look after them. Because his wife eloped away with
another boy about two years back. So he has prayed for
exoneration.

34. It is well settled that the quantum of sentence must be
proportional to the nature and gravity of the offence. The court
while imposing punishment has to consider the aggravated and
mitigating circumstances of the case.

35. The sentence prescribed U/S-6 of the POCSO Act shall be
rigorous imprisonment which shall not be less than ten years but
10

which extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to
fine.

36. Considering the entire facts and circumstances of the case ,
the accused is leniently dealt with in the sentencing sphere. He
is sentence to ten years RI and fine of RS -1000/only in default
further RI for one month. The period of detention of the accused
in jail as UTP in connection with this case shall be set off from
the quantum of substantive sentence.

This quantum of sentence, in my considered view would meet
the ends of justice.

A certified copy of this judgment be furnished forthwith to the
accused.

37. Before parting with this judgment, | appreciate the valuable
assistance rendered by Smt. S. Khanom , learned legal aid
counsel. She is entitled to her remuneration as per rule which
Shall be paid by secretary DLSA, Nagaon within least possible
time. A copy of this judgement be sent to secretary DLSA,
Nagaon for information and necessary action.

Judgement declared and delivered in the open court under my
hand and seal this 19° Day of November 2019.

(A. Rahman, AJS )

Special Judge , Nagaon

Judgment prepared & Corrected by me.

(A. Rahman, AJS )
Special Judge , Nagaon.

---APPENDIX----
11

Prosecution witness-

PW-1 Father of the victim.
PW-2 Shri Hema Kt Bora.
PW-3 Victim

PW-4 Mother of the victim
PW-5 Ratna Kt Saikia.
PW-6 Dr. Bhasawti Sarmah.
PW-7 Raju Kr. Nath (IO)

Exhibits-
Ext-1 FIR

Ext-2 HSLC Admit Card.

Ext-3 Statement of the victim.
Ext-4 seizure list.

Ext- 5 medical report.

Ext-6 Sketch map.

Ext-7 charge sheet.

Defence witness-
DW-1 Raj Nath alias Raju Nath.
Exhibit- Nil.

( A. Rahman, AJS )
Special Judge , Nagaon
12

APENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses
PW-1 Sita.
PW-2 Miss - X (Victim Child)
PW-3 Smti. Sunita Basfor.
PW-4 Smti. Hema Basfor.
PW-5 Sri Santosh Basfor.
PW-6 Dr. Julina Hussain.

PW-7 Smti Purnima Buragohain.

Court Witnesses
CW-1 Sri Sarat Tamuly.
CW-2 Smti. Aleya Sultana
13

CW-3 Smti. Bibharani Saikia Nath
CW-4 Smti. F.Y Loi

Prosecution Exhibits
Ext-1 ejehar
Ext-2 is the medial report
Ext-3 seizure list
Ext-4 charge sheet
Ext-5 School admission register
Ext-6 is the statement of Smti. F.Y Loi
Defence Witness and Exhibits
NIL
(A Rahman, AJS )
Special Judge , Nagaon
