IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE urea! CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

  

Special(P) Case No. 7(Basu)/2017
U/S 344/376(2)(i) IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Vs.
Sri Babul Debnath _............... Accused

PRESENT : Sri D.J. Mahanta,

Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.
ADVOCATES APPEARED:
For the State ! Sri D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor
For the accused ‘ Sti N.I. Siddique, Ld. Advocate
Date of evidence : 24.08.17, 20.09.17, 08.11.17,

19.01.18, 23.05.18
Date of Argument : 15.06.2018
Date of Judgment : 15.06.2018

dy
X
fo JUDGMENT AND ORDER
NN
yr cf
sew? informant Pritom Mandal lodged an FIR before Basugaon P.S. alleging that
er since one month before as on 17.05.2017, the accused had been keeping the

*

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 17.05.2017, the

victim ‘X’ (name is withheld), a 15 years old girl of Bongaigaon B.G. Colony in
his house introducing her as his niece. It is alleged that on asking the victim
the informant and other local people came to know that the accused had been
committing sexual intercourse upon her regularly during her stay in the house
of the accused.

2. After receiving the FIR, the O/C of Basugaon P.S. registered a
case being Basugaon P.S. Case No. 34/17 U/S 344 IPC R/W Section 6/7 of
POCSO Act and entrusted S.I. N. Boro to investigate the case. Accordingly, the
Investigating Officer arrested the accused, visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical
examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164 CrPC, collected the medical
report and after completion of investigation, submitted charge-sheet against
the accused Babul Debnath U/S 344 IPC R/W Section 6/8 of POCSO Act. After
receiving charge sheet, copies of relevant documents were furnished to the
accused person. Accused person was produced from jail. On perusal of entire
materials on record and hearing both sides and after having found a prima
facie case, my learned predecessor framed charge U/S 344/376(2)(i) IPC read
with Section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused. Charge was read over and
explained to the accused to which he denied to plead guilty. Later on, accused

person was released on bail after framing charge.

J In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as 9

(nine) witnesses.
4. Following witnesses are examined:-

(1) Sri Pritom Mandal as PW 1
(2) Victim as PW 2

(3) Sri Gautom Debnath as PW 3
(4) Md. Jahidul Ali as PW 4

(5) Sri Bishnu Barman as PW 5
(6) Sri Ajit Ghosh as PW 6

(7) Smt. Anita Ghosh as PW 7
(8) Sri Chandan Barman as PW 8
(9) S.I. Nobin Boro as PW 9

5. FIR was exhibited as Ext. 1. Statement of the victim U/S 164
Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext. 2. Sketch map was exhibited as Ext.3, charge-
sheet was exhibited as Ext.4 and seizure list was exhibited as Ext.5.

6. Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.

7. Heard argument from both sides.
8. Now points for consideration:-
For the offence U/S 344 of IPC

1. Whether since one month before as on 17.05.2017 at
Bhutiapara under Basugaon P.S., the accused wrongly confined

the victim for one month?
For the offence U/S 376(2)(i) of IPC

2. Whether since one month at the same time and place, the
accused committed rape upon the victim, a woman under age

of 16 years?
For the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act

3. Whether since one month at the same time and place, the
accused committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim

(A minor girl under the age of 18 years) ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

 

9. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record regarding above mentioned all points simultaneously for the sake of
convenience.

IU, It was alleged in the FIR that accused kept the victim, who is
his niece in his home as domestic helper. She was kept in his house by the
accused under lock and key and he left the home for his work. On suspicion,
local people, particularly some ladies interrogated the victim. Then they knew
that accused forcefully committed sexual relationship with her during her stay

in his home.

Ll, PW 1 is the informant. He is a village teacher and he heard
about the incident from the village ladies. The women of the village
interrogated the victim. Then it was revealed that accused committed sexual

intercourse with her. According to decision of the villagers, PW 1 lodged the
FIR. During cross-examination, he stated that he had not asked the victim
directly about the incident. It is revealed from his evidence that accused is the
paternal uncle of the victim. It is also revealed from his evidence that she
stayed in the house of accused as domestic helper as because there was no
any reliable shelter for her because her father remarried and her mother died.
She took shelter in different places like maternal uncle’s place, aunt’s house
and the house of the accused.

12. The important witness is the victim. She deposed that she used
to work as domestic helper in the house of the accused, who is her paternal
uncle. She admitted the fact that her mother died and after the death of her
mother, her father remarried. As her father remarried another woman for
which she left that house and took shelter in the house of her relatives.
Accordingly, she took shelter in the house of her maternal uncle, one aunty
and in the house of accused because accused is her own paternal uncle. It is
also revealed from the evidence of PW 1 and PW 2 that accused resided
alone. His parents died. His sisters were already married. As there is no any
person to look after the household works, he kept the victim as domestic
helpers. It is revealed from the evidence of PW 1 that the nearby women
noticed that when accused left his home, he kept the victim within the house
under lock and key. He left his home at about early 6 a.m. and returned 5 to 6
p.m. The victim stayed under lock and key for whole day. Therefore, villagers
suspected that there was something happened between the accused and
victim. When they asked the victim, victim reported that accused committed
sexual intercourse with her forcefully. During her evidence, victim denied the
allegation. According to her, she stayed in the house of the accused as
domestic helper. Her paternal uncle, the accused did not commit any sexual
act with her. At first, she stated the story before police as well as Magistrate
according to ill advice of the villagers. PW 2 clearly stated that the village
women gave pressure to state such a way that accused would be liable for
criminal offence. As she was advised by villagers for which she stated before
police and Magistrate that accused committed sexual intercourse with her.
From her evidence as well as evidence of PW 1, it is found that victim was

minor aged about 14 to 15 years.
13. PW 3, PW 4, PW 5, PW 6, PW 7 and PW 8 are the villagers.
They heard when the victim was interrogated by the village women. PW 3
deposed that he came to know from the neighboring people that accused kept
the victim as domestic helper. At that time, age of the victim was about 15
years. On being suspicion, the neighboring people observed secretly inside the
house of the accused and found that accused involved with immoral acts with
the victim. On the following day, village people along with member of Mahila
Committee interrogated the victim girl and then she disclosed before the
villagers that she wanted to go home but accused detained her in his house
and did physical relation with her forcefully. PW 3 was present at that time.
After that accused along with victim was handed over to police and PW 1
lodged FIR. During cross-examination, this witness stated that who at first
informed the matter to the villagers, this witness had no direct knowledge
about the relationship between the accused and the victim. He did not see any
incident between the accused and victim. From the evidence of PW 3, it is
found that he had no direct knowledge about the incident. On suspicion,
villagers interrogated the victim. According to the victim, she stated before

police falsely as she was tutored by villagers.

14. PW 4 deposed that victim was staying in the house of the
accused and her age was about 15 years. He also stated same facts as stated
by PW 3. He knew the fact from the villagers. According to him, before the
date of occurrence, he did not know what was the relationship between the
accused and victim. When victim was taken out from the house of the accused
by the village women, this witness was absent. Therefore, PW 4 had no direct
knowledge.

15. PW 5 also stated same thing. He got information subsequently.
Already village people gathered there. After that he went to the place of
occurrence.

16. PW 6 knew the incident when local people produced both the
accused and victim before Basugaon P.S. He deposed that entire fact was

heard by him from the victim. During cross-examination, he stated that at the
time of incident he was absent. He was in market. He heard about the

incident from villagers. So, this witness is nothing but hearsay witness.

17. PW 7 deposed that the victim was staying along with the
accused for a period of 1 %2 months. On 17.05.2017 at about 8.15 a.m.
villagers went to the house of the accused and searched him while victim was
residing along with him. On inquiry, the victim told them that accused had
committed sexual intercourse. During cross-examination, this witness stated
that victim did not state anything to him about any incident. So, this witness
also heard about the incident from the villagers. PW 8 also heard about the

incident.

18. PW 9 is the Investigating Officer, who investigated the matter
by visiting the place of occurrence and recording the statements of witnesses.
He exhibited the sketch map, charge-sheet and seizure list. According to PW
9, victim was sent for medical examination within 24 hours from the alleged
incident. According to opinion of the Medical Officer, after considering the
clinical and radiological examination, age of the victim was found above 17
years and below 21 years. In the report, medical officer opined that no violent

mark seen on her body or private parts.

19. After going through the entire evidence on record, it is found
that age of the victim was not ascertained correctly. According to medical
report as stated by the I.0., age of the victim was above 17 years and below
21 years. Other witnesses stated the age of the victim as 14/15 years on
assumption. Victim denied all the allegations leveled against the accused.
According to victim, due to pressure from the villagers, she stated that
accused committed sexual intercourse with her forcefully. In her later
deposition, victim clearly stated that accused committed no sexual intercourse.
No any sexual act was committed by the accused as stated by victim but on
suspicion, the villagers gave pressure to the victim to state falsely before the
police as well as Magistrate that accused had committed sexual intercourse
with her. It is established from the entire evidence on record that accused is
the own paternal uncle of the victim. So, I have found that material witness

did not support the prosecution story. According to her, earlier statement was
given on the pressure from villagers. On the other hand, according to I.O. he
collected the medical report and it was found after clinical and radiological
examination that age of the victim was above 17 years and below 21 years.
So, victim might be major at the time of occurrence. She stated nothing
against the accused. Other witnesses, on suspicion, charged the accused
regarding the stay of victim with him in a house. So, no cogent evidence is
found to book the accused for the offences mentioned above. The prosecution
failed to establish the case U/S 344/376(2)(i) IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act
against the accused. All points are remained as not proved. Accused is not
found guilty.

RDER

20. Prosecution failed to prove the case U/S 344/376(2)(i) IPC R/W
Section 4 of POCSO Act against accused Babul Debnath. Accused is acquitted
and set at liberty. He is directed to furnish bail bond of Rs. 10,000/- with one
suitable surety of the like amount for a period of six months as required U/S

437(A) Cr.P.C. Till then, he is allowed to remain on previous bail.

21. A copy of the Judgment shall be given to the District
Magistrate, Chirang for information.

22. Seized articles, if any, shall be disposed of according to law.

23. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 15” day
of June, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

a Mohanta) eis
RR i sie

gsce
Dictated and corrected by me, oer

sae

(D.J. Mahanta)

pawn
APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Sri Pritom Mandal
PW 2 - Victim

PW 3 — Sri Gautom Debnath
PW 4 — Md. Jahidul Ali

PW 5 - Sri Bishnu Barman
PW 6 — Sri Ajit Ghosh

PW 7 — Smt. Anita Ghosh
PW 8 — Sri Chandan Barman
PW 9 —S.I. Nobin Boro

Exhibit (Prosecution):

Ext-1 FIR

Ext-2 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext-3 Sketch map

Ext-4 Charge-sheet

Ext-5 Seizure list

Material Exhibit (Prosecution):
Nil.

Defence Witness:
Nil.

Defence Exhibit:
Nil.

ha \*

(D.J. Mahanta)

Special Jute

Chirag Mifaigacn
