IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::: TINSUKIA ::: ASSAM

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,
Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 16 (M) of 2016
U/s. 4 of the POCSO Act

The State Of ASSAM........c:cccccccccsccesssseeesessseeeeeessseeesessseeeeeeeas Complainant

Sri Sanjoy Boruah @ Jotin

S/o Late Indreswar Boruah

R/o Niz Makumkilla

P.S. Margherita & Dist. Tinsukia, ASSAM..............cccsseseeeeeees Accused

Appearance:

Sri A.K. Choubey,
Public ProS@Cutor.............0..sesceeeeees For the State

Sri N. Prasad,
ACVOCAtE......0..ccccceccceecceecececeueeeneees For the Accused

Date of Argument: 27.10.2017
Date of Judgment: 27.10.2017
JUDGMENT

THE PROSECUTION CASE

1. The prosecution case against the accused is that on 11.03.2016
at about 4 p.m., the 27 years old accused had called the 7 years old
minor daughter of the informant into his house on a promise of giving
her money. When the girl entered into his house, the accused
disrobed her and kept her confined. But, the victim girl managed to

escape from his house.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION
2. The only point for determination in this trial is as to whether the
accused Sanjoy Boruah @ Jotin had sexually assaulted the minor victim

girl?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF
3. In order to prove the offence against the accused, the
prosecution side has examined as many as 5 (five) witnesses, including
the victim girl and the doctor, who examined the victim during the
period of investigation. The defence plea is total denial. I have

carefully gone through the evidence.

4. The evidence of the doctor is irrelevant in the instant case,

because there was no allegation of any penetrative sexual intercourse.

5. Now, I shall take up the evidence of the victim girl. She stated
that at the relevant time of occurrence, she had gone to witness the

construction of a bridge near her residence. After some time, she
returned home, but while she was coming home, she met the accused
near his house. The victim stated that the accused called her to his
house because he wanted to give her biscuits. The victim stated that
the biscuits were not available in his house. Therefore, he stated that

when his mother comes home, she will give her biscuits.

6. The victim further stated that the accused raised her frock and
put his hand into her pants and touched her vagina and the accused
told her that she should touch his penis. The victim stated that she did
not see the penis of the accused, rather she shouted at him and left

the house of the accused.

7. Now, I shall take up the evidence of the informant, who is the
father of the victim girl. His evidence is hearsay, because he was not
present in his house at the time of occurrence. He just lodged the

ejahar, marked as Ext.3.

8. The mother of the victim girl has quoted her daughter as saying
to her that the accused tried to remove her pants. The mother has
also quoted her daughter as saying to her that the accused had

inserted his finger into her vagina.

a. The last witness in this case is Dilip Borgohain. His evidence is
also hearsay. The witness Dilip Borgohain is the brother of the mother

of the victim.

10. All the prosecution witnesses have been extensively cross-
examined by the defence counsel. In her cross-examination, the victim
girl has stated that she gave statement to police after her mother

tutored her as to how to give the statement and accordingly, she gave
the statement to police. She further stated that when she was brought
before a Magistrate for recording her statement u/s. 164 of the Cr.P.C.,
at that time also, her mother tutored her as to how the statement was
to be given. The victim stated that on the day of occurrence, all the

villagers got together and thrashed the accused.

11. The thrashing of the accused by the villagers and thereafter,
handing over of the accused to the police has been supported by the

mother of the victim during her cross-examination.

12. |The mother of the victim girl never stated before police that the
accused had tried to remove pants of her daughter and also inserted
his finger into her vagina. When this fact was brought to the notice of
the witness, she denied. It may be stated that the mother of the
victim stated before police that the accused wanted the victim girl to

touch his penis.

13. | From the evidence available in the record, I find that the mother
of the victim has made exaggerations. Another aspect of this case that
came to my notice is that all the prosecution witnesses, who are
named, are close relatives of the victim. It is true that relationship
between the witnesses cannot be a reason to discard or disbelieve the
witnesses. But, at this stage, I shall rely upon decision of the Hon’ble

Supreme Court regarding the value of evidence of related witnesses.

14. |The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Raju @ Balachandran & Ors. Vs
State of Tamil Nadu (AIR 2013 SC 983), has deliberated upon the
subject the difference between a related witness and an interested
witness. Referring to its own decisions in State of Rajasthan v.
Kalki, (1981) 2 SCC 752, State of Bihar v. Basawan Singh, AIR
1958 SC 500, Dalip Singh v. State of Punjab, 1954 SCR 145,
Waman v. State of Maharashtra, (2011) 7 SCC 295, Sarwan
Singh v. State of Punjab, (1976) 4 SCC 369, Balraje v. State of
Maharashtra, (2010) 6 SCC 673, Prahlad Patel v. State of
Madhya Pradesh, (2011) 4 SCC 262, Israr v. State of Uttar
Pradesh, (2005) 9 SCC 616, S. Sudershan Reddy v. State of
Andhra Pradesh, (2006) 10 SCC 163, State of Uttar Pradesh v.
Naresh, (2011) 4 SCC 324, Jarnail Singh v. State of Punjab,
(2009) 9 SCC 719 and in Vishnu v. State of Rajasthan, (2009) 10
SCC 477, the Hon’ble Apex court has held -----

The sum and substance is that the evidence of a related or
interested witness should be meticulously and carefully examined. In a
case where the related and interested witness may have some enmity
with the assailant, the bar would need to be raised and the evidence of
the witness would have to be examined by applying a standard of
discerning scrutiny. However, this is only a rule of prudence and not
one of law, as held in Dalip Singh and pithily reiterated in Sarwan
Singh in the following words:

“The evidence of an interested witness does not suffer from any
infirmity as such, but the courts require as a rule of prudence, not as a
rule of law, that the evidence of such witnesses should be scrutinized
with a little care. Once that approach is made and the court is satisfied
that the evidence of interested witnesses have a ring of truth such

evidence could be relied upon even without corroboration.”

15. | Furthermore, in the case before me, the victim in her evidence
has also stated that she was tutored by her mother to give statements

before the Magistrate as well as before the police.
16. Children are the most vulnerable of all witnesses. Several
factors influence children’s memory capacity, including the child’s age,
psychological development and intellectual ability, the complexity of
the event, their familiarity with the event and the delay between the

event and the time at which the event is recalled.

17. The Supreme Court, in State of M.P. v. Ramesh and Anr.,
reported in (2011) 4 SCC 786), has examined the law relating to
deposition by Child Witnesses. While examining the law on the aspect
the Court has observed that the deposition of a child witness may
require corroboration, but in case his deposition inspires the confidence
of the Court and there is no embellishment or improvement therein,
the Court may rely upon his evidence. The evidence of a child witness
must be evaluated more carefully with greater circumspection because
he is susceptible to tutoring. Only in case there is evidence on record
to show that a child has been tutored, the Court can reject his
statement partly or fully. However, an inference as to whether the
child has been tutored or not, can be drawn from the contents of his

deposition.

18. The aforesaid facts have created a substantial doubt about the
veracity of the prosecution case against the accused Sanjoy Boruah @
Jotin. I find that the truthfulness of the prosecution case against the
accused is a subject matter of substantial doubt. At this stage, I have

decided to give the benefit of doubt to the accused.

19. The prosecution evidence failed to inspire confidence and
accordingly, I hereby hold that the prosecution has failed to prove the

offence against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
ORDER
20. That being the position, the accused Sanjoy Boruah @ Jotin is

 

found not guilty and he is acquitted from this case on benefit of doubt.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 27" day
of October, 2017.

Dictated & corrected by me.

(P.J. Saikia)
Special Judge Special Judge
Tinsukia Tinsukia
AP PEN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

PWi
Pw2
PwW3
Pw4
PW5

Dr. Pulak Paul
Smti Mamu Boruah
Sri Tarun Boruah
Smti Baby Boruah
Sri Dilip Borgohain

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

Ext.1
Ext.2
Ext.3
Ext.4

Report prepared by Dr. Jahnabi Das
Radiological Report with X-Ray Plates
Ejahar

Statement of Baby Boruah

Mat. Ext.1- Birth Certificate

DEFENCE WITNESSES AND EXHIBITS

NIL

Special Judge
Tinsukia
