 

Page 1 of 3
Sp! POCSO No. 08/2015

IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FIC, BISWANATH CHARIALI,
SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl POCSO No, 08/2015
U/S 376(2)(f) IPC, r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

State of Assam
-Vs-
Sri Bhisma Gautam

vevees Accused person

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

5 ° ' Advocates Appeared:-

For the prosecution: Ms. J. Kalita, learned Addl. P.P
For the defence : Mr. D.K. Borah, learned Advocate

Dates of recording Evidence: 28.08.2019, 07.02.2020

Date of Argument > 07.02.2020.

Date of Judgment : 07.02.2020.
JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 04.10.2015 the informant namely, Sri Hemlal Gautam

lodged an FIR with the OC, Behali Police Station stating inter alia that on 10.08.2015 at
about 3.30 PM, taking advantage of his absence in his house his neighbour, the accused
Bhisma Gautam had committed rape on his 8 year-old daughter (name is withheld). He
stated that he could know about the incident from his daughter.

2. Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After

investigation, the police submitted charge sheet against the accused person u/s 376(2)(f)
IPC, r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

3. The accused persons in due course, appeared before this court to face trial. The copies of

the relevant documents were furnished to him. Upon hearing both the sides on the point of
charge, taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173 CrPC, as my learned predecessor
found grounds for presuming that the accused has committed offences u/s 376(2)(f) IPC,

* R/W Section 4 of the POCSO Act. The charges were accordingly framed against him which

on being read over and explained, the accused pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial, the prosecution examined two witnesses in all including the informant and the

alleged victim. Looking into the evidence as adduced by both these vital witnesses, more
 

Page 2 of 3

Sp! POCSO No. 08/2015
particularly, the evidence of the victim-PW 2, the prosecution declined to examine the

remaining witnesses contending that further evidence would not strengthen its case.
Taking note of the materials on record, the prosecution evidence was closed. As no
incriminating evidence was found against the accused, his examination u/s 313 CrPC was
dispensed with. The case was thereafter argued by both the sides.
Points for determination
i) Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed rape on
the victim who is under the age of 12 years?
li) Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim who is below the age of 18 years?
Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

. PW 1 is the informant and the father of the alleged victim, namely, Sri Hemlal Gautam. He
stated that the accused is his nephew. About 4 years back, when he returned to his house,
in the evening hours, he found his adopted daughter, who was 8 years old then, on a ‘bad
condition’. When he inquired, she did not utter anything. His wife told him that the accused
had committed 'bad work' on her. When he asked about the same, the accused denied to
the allegations. Later, when the villagers asked him to lodge an ‘ejahar', he lodged the
same against the accused, which he proved as Ext. 1. In his cross, he stated that he did
not hear what the victim had stated to his wife. As the victim did not sustain any injury,
she was not taken for medical examination. He further stated that he lodged the Ext. 1 on
the advice of the villagers.
. PW 2is the victim. She stated that the incident took place when she was about 9 years old
and was studying in Class-III. She stated that the accused did not misbehave her and what
she had stated was based on what she was taught by the villagers to say. She further
stated that the wife of the accused had enmity with the village women folk. She further
stated that the informant had lodged the ‘ejahar' out of misunderstanding.
. Thus from the evidence of both these vital witnesses, more particularly from the evidence
of the victim, we do not find any material against the accused to convict him on the
offences charged against him. The prosecution has failed to prove its case. As such I acquit
the accused and _ set him at liberty forthwith. The provision u/s 437-A CrPC is not complied
with after taking note of the evidence on record. A copy of the judgment be forwarded to
the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec. 365 CrPC. The case is
disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 7th day of February,

2020.

_
<a" ty Sy
(D. BORA) 7 UM
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.
 

Page 3 of 3
Spl POCSO No. 08/2015

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Hemlal Gautam (Informant*
PW2- Victim.

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
_ Ext.1- Ejahar
» Ext. 2- Statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 CrPC.

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

None

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

None.
