IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: KAMRUP(M),
AT GUWAHATI

Sessions Case No. 102/2015
(Under Section 12 of the POCSO Act )

Present: S.P. Moitra,
Sessions Judge
Kamrup(M), Guwahati

State of Assam
- Vs —_

Sri Rajesh Singh @ Bablu

secueeneenaenes Accused
Appearance for the Parties:
Advocate for the State : Mr. H.K. Deka, Learned Public Prosecutor

Advocate for the accused : Mr. C.K.Nath, Learned Advocates

Date of recording evidence : 14.09.2015, 13.10.2015 & 24.05.2017
Date of Argument : 03.08.2017
Date of Judgment : 17.08.2017

JUDGMENT

1. Brief facts of the case of the prosecution, as emerged from the written
FIR (Ext-1) lodged by the informant (name withheld), are that on 27.03.2014,
at about 2:20 a.m., while the informant was sleeping in her room, the
accused person entered into the room, by opening the back door. He lifted

the mosquito net and thereafter caught hold of her hand. As the informant
raised alarm, the accused person tried to flee from the back door and the

elder brother of the informant obstructed him from fleeing from the place.

2. On the basis of the said FIR (Exhibit 1), Latasil PS Case No. 89/14
was registered U/S 448/354 of the IPC, read with Section 12 of the Protection
of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as “POCSO
Act”) and was taken up for investigation. In course of investigation, I.O.
visited the place of occurrence, prepared the sketch map of the place of
occurrence and also recorded the statements of the witnesses. The statement
of the victim was also recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. before the
learned SDJM (I), Kamrup(M), Guwahati. After completion of the
investigation, the I/O submitted charge-sheet against the accused person U/S
448/354 of the IPC, read with Section 12 of the POCSO Act.

3. Cognizance of the offence was taken under the aforesaid sections of
law. The accused person who was on bail entered appearance before this
Court and he was allowed to remain on previous bail. The copies of the
relevant documents were furnished to the accused in compliance to the
provision of section 207 of the Cr.PC. On consideration of charge, charge U/S
448/354 of IPC read with Section 12 of POCSO Act was framed against the
accused; charge was read over and explained to the accused to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to face the trial.

4. To bring home the charge, prosecution examined, as many as, 6 (Six)
witnesses on its behalf and also exhibited five documents. Defense plea was
of complete denial of any guilt, as appears from the trend of cross-
examination, as well as, from the statement of the accused, recorded U/S
313 of the CrP.C.. The defence adduced no evidence on its behalf.

5. I heard the argument advanced by the learned counsel for the
parties.
6. Point for determination:

(i) Whether on 27.03.2014, at about 2:20 a.m., at Uzanbazar

Jahajghat, the accused person committed house trespass by
entering into the room of the victim and used criminal force on

her with the intention to outrage her modesty.

(ii) If so, whether he is also guilty in committing the offence under
Section 12 of POCSO Act, 2012, by assaulting the minor

informant/victim?
Decision and reasons thereof:

7. I have gone carefully through the entire evidence on record both oral
and documentary. For the sake of convenience and brevity the evidence of
the offence on both the points are taken up altogether for discussion and

decisions.

PW1 is the victim herself and her testimony reveals that the occurrence took
place in the previous year, in the month of March. She testified that on that
particular night, she was sleeping with her grand mother Smti. Seba Das. She
testified that at about 2:30/3:00 a.m., whe went to toilet and when she came
back and was getting inside the bed, she saw a shadow of a man and on
seeing the same, she became afraid and raised alarm. She added that
hearing her alarm, her elder brother Sri Subhash Das came out and
apprehended the accused person near the gate. She also stated that the
accused person touched the mosquito net. Her further evidence is that she
lodged the FIR at Latasil P.S. and her statement was also recorded by the

learned Magistrate. She proved Ext-3 as her statement.

During cross examination, the witness admitted that police did not ask
her any proof, as to her present age. She further denied the suggestion that
the accused person did not do anything, nor he had entered into the house.
However, she admitted that her elder brother apprehended the accused
person from the road. She further admitted that her elder brother Subhash
Das is a mentally ill person and he used to remain inside in the house all
through the day. She further added that he has been suffering mental illness

from more than a year.

8. PW2 Smti. Seba Das is the grand mother of the victim. She testified

that the accused person is the neighbour and added that about one year ago,
one day, she herself along with the victim were sleeping and then the victim
heard a sound of the knocking the door and hearing the same, she herself
along with the victim and Subhas Das came out to the road. She specifically
stated that the accused person never held the hand of the victim, nor
touched her. Thus, this witness fully contradicted the story narrated in the
FIR and also contradicted the evidence of the victim herself. She gave a
complete different version of the occurrence and specifically stated that case
was filed out of misunderstanding and they are not interested to proceed

with the case.

9. PW3 Mrs. Sangita Surin and PW4 Sri Manoj Pd. Upadhyay are the
neighbouring witnesses and they specifically stated that they know nothing

about the occurrence.

10. PW5 Sri Subhash Das is the person who allegedly apprehended the
accused person. His testimony reveals that the occurrence took place at
about 1:30 a.m. and at that time, he was at home. He testified that the
accused person came to their house in intoxicated condition and he was
peeping through the window, in their house. He further added that he came
out from their house and asked him as to why he was peeping, but the
accused person could not give any satisfactory reply. This witness stated that

hence he assaulted him and handed over him to the police.

11. Thus, this witness gave another twist to the story narrated in the FIR
and gave a complete different version in comparison to the testimony of
PW1 and PW2.

12. PW6SI Nurul Islam Ahmed is the Investigating Officer of the case and

he is a formal witness only.

13. In view of the entire evidence on record, I find that the prosecution
has miserably failed to prove his case. There is no corroboration to the facts
that the accused person had entered into the room of the informant/victim
and caught hold of her hand with intention to outrage her modesty. The age

of the victim was also not proved.
14. In result accused Sri Rajesh Singh @ Bablu_ is held not guilty of
offence punishable u/s 448/354 of IPC, read with Section 12 of the POCSO
Act and he is accordingly acquitted and set at liberty forthwith. Bail Bond
furnished on his behalf, will remain in force for the next six months.

15. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open court on this 17" day of

August, 2017 at Guwahati.

(S.P. Moitra)
Sessions Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati

Dictated & corrected by me.

(S.P. Moitra)
Sessions Judge,

Kamrup(M), Guwahati
(A)

(B)

(C)
(E)

(F)

(G)

Ext-1
Ext-2
Ext-3

Ext-4
Ext-5

PW-1
PW-2
PW-3
PW4
PW5
PW6

APENDIX

Prosecution Exhibits

: FIR
: Printed form of FIR.
: The statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 of

Cr.P.C.

: Sketch Map.
: Charge sheet

Defense Exhibit : Nil

Court Exhibit : Nil

Prosecution Witnesses:

: Ms. Nisa Das.

: Smti. Seba Das

: Mrs. Sangita Surin

: Sri Manoj Pd. Upadhyay

: Sri Subhash Ch. Das

: SI Nurul Islam Ahmed(I.O)

Defense Witnesses: Nil

Court Witnesses __ : Nil.

(S.P. Moitra)
Sessions Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
