IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA
Special POCSO Case No. 11 of 2018
(Arising out of Baghbor P.S Case No.118/2017)
U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012
PRESENT : Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi

Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:- 28.05.2018

State of Assam

-Vs-
Osman Alli..........0068 Accused.
Date of Recording Evidence on - 20.06.2018, 07.08.2018, 27.11.2018,
04.05.2019, 24.05.2019
Date of Hearing Argument on - 03.06.2019

Date of Delivering the Judgment on- 13.06.2019

Appearance :
Advocate for the State------------------ Mrs. P. Das, Ld. Addl. P.P.
Advocate for the Accused-------------- Mr. Rafiz Uddin Dewan, Ld Advocates.
UDGMENT
1. The brief fact, of the prosecution case, as enumerated in the FIR dated

22.05.2017 lodged by one Ainal Hoque is that accused No.1 named in the FIR whose
residence is adjacent to the house of informant by persuading his daughter took her to
his room and subjected her sexual torture which continues for months causing her
pregnant. It is further alleged that accused threatened his daughter to kill in the event
she dares to disclose it to other. However, on 14.05.2017 having noticed the physical
growth of his daughter, they came to know that she became pregnant and on quarry
she disclosed the fact. Thereafter, accused NO.2,3,4 and 5 named in the FIR were
informed to settle the matter but they refused to admit the fact. It is submitted that
victim is very innocent and simple girl and she do not know the consequence of
pregnancy and taking advantage of her innocence accused did the mischief. Hence the
case.

2. Following the information as above, Mondia out post entered the same in the
general diary vide GDE No.407 dated 22.05.2017 and forwarded the same to Baghbor
police station for registering a case. Accordingly Baghbor PS. registered a case being
Baghbor PS Case No.118/17 u/s 120(B)/376/313 IPC R/W section 6 of POCSO Act.
2

3. During the course of investigation, police recorded the statement of the
witnesses including the victim girl u/s 161 Cr.P.C., drew sketch map, sent the victim girl
for medical examination. Thereafter, she was also forwarded to court for recording her
statement before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.PC. On conclusion of investigation, I/O
collected the medical report and finally laid the charge sheet against accused persons
u/s 376/313 IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act with a view to stand trial.

4. During the course of time, when accused entered his appearance in court the
then learned Special Judge, Barpeta having complied with the section 207 Cr.P.C. vide
order dated 28.05.2018, framed charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act. The particulars of the
offence on being read over and explained accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.
5. During the course of trial, the prosecution examined as many as 8 witnesses
including the informant, the victim girl, medical officer as well as investigating officer.
6. Concluding prosecution evidence, accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. in
which accused denied the prosecution evidence as false but on being asked, declined
to adduce defence evidence. His plea is total denial of the prosecution case.
Accordingly, case was posted for argument.

7. During the course of preparation of judgment it has come to notice that the
charge was not properly framed by the then Special Judge. Therefore, having heard the
learned lawyers appearing for both sides, this court vide order dated 03.06.2019
altered the charge from Section 4 of POCSO Act to Section 6 of POCSO Act.

8. However, the learned defence counsel on being asked declined to adduce fresh
evidence. So, hearing the learned lawyers, further prosecution evidence on the altered
charge stands closed and fix the case for judgment.

9. Now point for determination ;-

1. Whether on 22.05.2017 and prior thereof from 22.05.2017 accused
committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim (X) aged
about 12 years causing her pregnant as a consequence of sexual assault
on her as alleged ?

10. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-

 

| have heard the learned lawyers appearing for both sides and also carefully
scanned the documents and evidence available on record.
11. Before discussing the evidence on record, it is useful to refer first the definition
of offence of “aggravated penetrative sexual assault” as defined in Section 2(a) and (b)
of the POCSO Act, 2012.

Section 2(a) “aggravated penetrative sexual assault” has the same meaning

as assigned to it in section 5;
3

Section 2(b) “aggravated sexual assault” has the same meaning as assigned

to it in section 9;
12. Now, let this court examine the evidence of the witnesses and documents on
record for arriving at a just decision in the case.
13. PW-1 Ainal Hoque, who is the informant deposed that he knows the accused as
his residence is adjacent to his house. The incident occurred about one year back. At
that time, the age of his daughter was 12 years. Accused called her to his residence
and committed rape on her and they came to know only after she became pregnant for
three months. When his wife asked his daughter, she narrated the story to her. Then a
village meeting was held wherein accused and his family were invited but they did not
respond. Then he filed the case. Since he do not know how to write, he put his thumb
impression in the FIR. He stated that his daughter was sent to medical examination and
also produced her before Magistrate for recording her statement. But the child in the
womb of his daughter died in the hospital.
14. In his cross examination he stated that he filed the FIR only after coming to
know about the incident. But after the birth of the child no attempt was made to
identify who is the father of the child. He had not seen when accused committed the
crime.
15. PW-2 is the victim girl (X) who in her deposition stated that accused is her
neighbor. One day after her return from school, the wife of accused called her to her
house. When she had gone there, she was put in a room, where accused was sitting
who removed her clothes by shutting her mouth and committed rape on her.
Subsequently, accused committed the sexual intercourse with her for twice when she
want to disclose it, accused threatened her of dire consequences. Earlier the brother of
accused killed the daughter of her paternal aunt. So out of fear she did not disclose it
to others. But her mother came to know when she was carrying pregnancy for three
months. Then she told the fact to her father who called the meeting of the society and
visited the house of accused but accused denied having his involvement. Then her
father filed the case. During investigation police recorded her statement and also sent
her for medical examination and she was also forwarded to court for recording her
statement before Magistrate. In the hospital, she gave birth a child but the child died.
16. In her cross examination she stated that she do not know her date of birth. She
read in school but later on, dropped. She understands bad and good things and know
that accused committed sexual intercourse with her for three days. But she did not
disclose it to others. She was not tutored by any one to depose evidence before
Magistrate. She further deposed that she did not shout at the time of commission of
the offence by accused because accused shut her mouth closed, threatened her with
dagger. She however, stated in her cross examination that in the meeting her father
demanded Rs.1,00,000/- from accused but on his refusal he filed the case.
17. PW-3 Hasmat Ali also deposed that he knows accused and the victim very well
and also aware about the meeting of the society regarding the matter. At that time,
4

victim was carrying five months pregnancy. The meeting was held against the accused
but accused did not obey the command of the meeting. Later on, the victim gave birth
a child in the hospital but the child expired.

18. In his cross examination he stated that informant is his neighbor but he do not
know whether informant demanded Rs.1,00,000/- from accused and was not aware
from whose side the victim become pregnant.

19. PW-4 Toimuddin also deposed in the same vain by stating that he knows
informant and the accused very well and the incident occurred one year back. He saw
police visited the house of accused and having seen this, he rushed there and came to
know that victim was made pregnant by accused Osman Ali.

20. In his cross examination he stated that how the victim become pregnant he do
not know.
21. PW-5 Sanidul Islam also deposed that he knows informant and the accused well

and came to know that victim become pregnant and in this regard police visited the
house of accused. But in his cross examination he stated that he do not know how the
victim become pregnant.

22. PW-6 Kalachan Mia also deposed that he is a co-villager with the informant and
accused and also came to know from the victim that she was carrying pregnancy and
her father lodged the case and at that time she was 12 years old.

23. PW-7 is doctor Anima Boro who deposed that on 23.05.2017 while she was
working at FAAMCH, Barpeta as a lady medical officer, she examined the victim girl (X)
aged about 12 years in connection with Baghbor PS. case No.118/17 u/s
120(B)/376/313 IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act. On being produced by one woman
police constable and on examination no injury mark was found on her private part. But
as per X-ray examination her age was found above 12 years and below 14 years. The
doctor further deposed that victim was pregnant for 17 week 3 days at that time.

24. In her cross examination she deposed that she examined only pregnancy of the
girl not the injury on her private part. Who caused the pregnancy can be ascertained
only by DNA test.

25. PW-8 Mablik Brahma the investigating officer whose evidence is stereotype in
nature. According to her, she on being entrusted to investigate the case, forwarded the
victim girl for medical examination as well as produced her before Magistrate for
recording her statement and drew sketch map and later on, collected the medical
examination report, arrested the accused and finally submitted the charge sheet
against accused u/s 376/313 IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act. Ext.2 is the FIR and
Ext.2(1) is his signature. Ext.3 is the sketch map and Ext.3(1) is his signature. Ext.4 is
the seizure list and Ext.4(1) is his signature. Ext.5 is the charge sheet and Ext.5(1) is
his signature.

26. In her cross examination she stated that since victim was carrying her
pregnancy at the time of investigation so he do not apply for DNA test to ascertain the
paternity of the child. She denied that the false charge sheet was filed against accused.
5

27. Based on the evidence available on record, the learned Addl. P.P. submitted
that this is a case wherein prosecution has been able to establish the case against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubt for sustaining conviction of accused u/s 6 of
POCSO Act. She submitted that the version of the victim girl (PW-2) is consistent and
credible supported by other prosecution evidence. The evidence of the victim girl that
she was made pregnant by accused by having sexual intercourse with her on several
dates has been proved by oral evidence of her father as well as medical evidence of
doctor who on examination of the victim girl on 23.05.2017 found her carrying
pregnancy of 17 months 3 weeks. Therefore, the learned Addl. P.P. submitted that it is a
fit case for awarding appropriate punishment to accused person in accordance with
law.

28. On the other hand, the learned counsel Md. Rafiz Uddin Dewan appearing for
the accused person vehemently contended that there is contradictions and
inconsistencies in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses for sustaining conviction
of accused person u/s 6 of POCSO Act because the evidence of the victim girl has not
been supported by medical evidence. He contended that when the medical officer
examined the victim girl on 23.05.2017 she found no any injury mark on her private
part. Moreover, in her cross examination she stated that no DNA test was done to
ascertain the paternity of the child in the womb of the victim girl. Therefore, there is
serious doubt as to who caused the pregnancy. Under such a situation, awarding
conviction of the accused is highly unsafe. The learned counsel further contended that
the evidence of PW-4, PW-5 and PW-6 are all hearsay so no reliance can be placed on
their evidence. The other witnesses namely-PW-1 and PW-2 are father and daughter so
their evidence is interested. As such, no reliance can be placed on the evidence of such
interested witnesses. Therefore, the learned defence counsel submitted that it is a fit
case to record judgment of acquittal on the ground of benefit of doubt.

29. Having heard the rival contention of the learned lawyers appearing for both
sides, this court after careful examination of the evidence available on record found it
difficult to accept the submission of the learned defence counsel. On perusal of the
statement of the victim girl recorded by police u/s 161 Cr.PBC. and her evidence
deposed in court on oath it appears that she very categorically and consistently spelt
out the name of accused Osman Ali who committed aggravated penetrative sexual
assault on her and none else. According to her, accused Osman Ali had sexual
intercourse with her by calling her into his house not only once, but thrice under threat
of killing her. The evidence of the victim girl inspires confidence as she is consistent
throughout her evidence and cross examination. The contention of the learned defence
counsel that the victim did not disclose the fact at the first point of time renders the
prosecution case doubtful as to who caused her pregnant. But in the considered
estimation of this court, the contention of the learned defence counsel is not backed by
any good reason because of the fact that when an adult committed aggravated
penetrating sexual assault on a minor girl under threat of killing her in the event she
6

disclose to others it is very natural that a minor girl could not gather courage to
disclose it to any one because of inherent fear in her tender mind. In such a situation, a
minor girl do not dare to disclose it, even to her parents because of fear of corporal
punishment. So, the minor girl is to bear the pain and agony within herself. Moreover,
accused Osman Ali is her next door neighbor so she always nurture fear in her mind
which hunt her all throughout. If she disclosed it to others accused will take action
event to the extent of killing her. Therefore, under such a breathless circumstances it is
natural that a minor girl did not are to disclose it to others. However, when the physical
appearance of the girl speaks otherwise it has come to the notice of her parents and
then on query by mother of the girl, as deposed by PW-1, who is her father the girl
disclosed her ordeal how accused Osman Ali subjected her aggravated penetrative
sexual assault on number of occasions under threat and make her pregnant. Under
such situation, the informant (PW-1) lodged the case against accused. During the
course of investigation as deposed by PW-8 the investigating officer, the girl was sent
for medical examination and also sent her for recording her statement before
Magistrate and during the course of her examination by medical officer on 23.05.2017
in connection with Baghbor P.S. case No.118/17 u/s 120(B)/376/313 IPC and section 4
of POCSO Act. The medical officer found the age of the victim girl above 12 years and
below 14 years and the victim girl was also found carrying pregnancy for 17 weeks 3
days. Therefore, the evidence available on record leads to irresistible conclusion that it
was none other then accused who had aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the
victim girl on number of times causing her pregnant which is a crime punishable u/s 6
of POCSO Act.

30. It is evident from record that the girl gave birth a child in the hospital but died.
In this context, this court do not find force in the contention of the learned defence
counsel that having not done DNA test to ascertain the paternity of the child in the
womb of the victim raises a serious doubt. As this argument pales into the face of
cogent and categorical evidence of the victim girl that it was accused who committed
the aggravated sexual assault on her and none others. During the course of evidence
also defence failed to establish that any other person has excess on the girl other than
the accused in causing such pregnancy. Therefore, DNA test in the estimation of this
court is not at all necessary to hold the accused guilty.

31. In view of the foregoing discussion it is crystal clear that court can also very
well draw the presumption prescribed u/s 29 and 30 of the POCSO Act that accused
Osman Ali has the criminal intention to commit the offence punishable u/s 5 (J)(ii) of
POCSO Act punishable u/s 6 of the said act.

32. The most revealing fact as deposed by PW-1 and the victim girl PW-2 is that
accused has having his wife living at the time of commission of the offence. Apart from
this, accused is a next door neighbor of the victim girl. Therefore, accused knows every
weakness and opportune situation and accordingly sexually exploited the victim to his
convenience contrary to his role of taking care of minor child of his locality as a
7

responsible citizen at the time of distress. Accused played the role of aggressor instead
of being a protector. So, the act of the accused is impregnated with full knowledge and
intention that he is committing a crime against a minor girl of tender age in his
neighborhood which is an act reprehensible by any sensible human being. Accused not
only put a serious strain in the age old relationship of neighbors in a civilized society
but he has broken the faith and trust of neighbors. Accused nakedly invaded into the
privacy and the sexuality of the victim girl which violates her dignity as a person.

33. In view of the foregoing discussion and reason, this court come to unerring
conclusion that accused Osman Ali is guilty of committing offence prescribed u/s 5 (j)
(ii) punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act, 2012. As such, this court holds him guilty
accordingly.

34. | have considered the provision of section 360 CrPC. but after due
consideration of the attending facts and circumstances of the case and the age of the
accused and the nature of the offence committed, this court is not inclined to extend
the benefit of Probation of Offenders Act in favour of accused.

SENTENCE HEARING

35. | have heard the accused person on the point of sentence as provided u/s
235(2) Cr.P.C. It is submitted that accused person hails from very poor strata of society
and survives by doing labour. He is very young and married. So, in the event he is put
behind bar his innocent family members would suffer a lot. Hence, accused pleaded
clemency.

36. Heaving considered all the extenuating and mitigating circumstances of the
case, and the punishment prescribed in section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 accused is
convicted and sentenced to undergo Rigorous imprisonment for a term of 10 years
(ten) and fine of Rs.1000/- (one thousand) I/d S/I for 3 (three) months. Though the
offence prescribed u/s 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 extent to imprisonment for life but
considering the age of the accused this court is of the view that awarding punishment
of minimum 10 years R/I will be appropriate for the accused person to repent and
realize his mistake, accordingly he is convicted in the aforesaid terms.

37. The period of detention, if any, undergone by accused during the course of
investigation, enquiry or trial shall be set off against the term of imprisonment as
provided u/s 428 Cr.P.C.

38. Let a copy of the judgment be furnished to accused person free of cost as
provided in section 363 Cr.P.C.

39. Let copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District Magistrate,
Barpeta as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.

40. Let the case record be consigned to record room after completing the
formalities.
41. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 13th day of June, 2019.

Dictated & Corrected my me

Sd/- Sd/-
(Sri C.B. Gogoi) (Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
APPENDIX

1. The prosecution has examined the following 8 nos. of witnesses :-

PW-1 = _ is Ainal Hoque, the informant.
PW-2 = is victim (X).

PW-3 = is Hasmat Ali.

PW-4 = is Toimuddin.

PW-5 = _ is Sanidul Islam.

PW-6 = is Kalachan Mia.

PW-7 = is doctor Anima Boro, the M/O.
PW-8 = is Mablic Brahama, the I/O.

2. The prosecution has exhibited following document :-

Ext.1 = is the medical report.

Ext.= 1(1) = is the signatures of doctor Anima Boro.
Ext.2 = is the FIR.

Ext.2(1) = is the signature of informant.

Ext.3 = is the sketch map.

Ext.3(1) =is the signatures of I/O..

Ext.4 = is the seizure list.

Ext.4(1) = is the signature of I/O.

Ext.5 = is the charge sheet.

Ext.5(1)= is the signature of I/O.

Sd/-

(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
