IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, BAJALI,
PATHSALA

Spl. POCSO Case No. 19 of 2018
U/S - 366 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

State
- Versus -
Minhaz Ali @ Minhazul
: Accused person.
Present :

Sri L.K. Saikia,
Additional Sessions Judge, Bajali, Pathsala.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Smti. Dhira Devi Ld. Addl. P. P.

For the accused persons : Sri Himangshu Goswami &
Smti Leena Das. Ld. Advocates.

Dates of recording evidences : 16-02-2019, 01-03-2019, 27-03-2019,
01-06-2016, 24-06-2019, 02-09-2019
26-09-2019.

Date of recording statements u/s 313 Cr.P.C. : 09-09-2019.

Date of Argument : 19-10-2019
Date of Judgment : 05-11-2019.
UDGMENT
1. The prosecution case in brief, is that, one Abdul Subbur

lodged an ejahar on 02-08-2018 with the In-Charge Dhumarpathar

Page 1 of 14
Police Out Post alleging, /nteralia, that on 01-08-2018 the accused
persons namely, Minhaz Ali, Fakkar Uddin and Abdul Abal kidnapped
her minor daughter “X” (herein after referred to as the victim) by
making a conspiracy. It is also alleged that prior to this occurrence, the
accused persons threatened him that they would kidnapped his minor
daughter even the accused Minhaz Ali threatened that he would take
the victim by killing the family members of the informant. Hence, this

case.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, Dnhumarpathar police out post
registered a GD Entry vide Dnhumarpathar OP GDE No. 218/2018 and
forwarded the same to Patacharkuchi Police Station to register a case
under proper section of law and accordingly it was registered as
Patacharkuchi P. S. Case No. 511/2018 u/s 366 (A)/34 IPC and started
to investigate into the case.

3. During the course of investigation police visited the place
of occurrence, recorded the statements of witnesses including the
victim girl, sent her for medical examination and collected medical
examination report, produced her before the Court wherein the Ld.
Magistrate recorded the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.PC,
arrested the accused Minhaz Ali and forwarded him to the court and
after completion of investigation, having been found prima-facie case,
the I/O sent up the accused for trial by filing charge sheet u/s 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012.

4. In the meantime the accused had enlarged on bail and on
appearance, the copies of the prosecution documents were furnished
to him u/s 207 Cr.P.C.. After hearing both the parties, and finding a
prima-facie case to presume that the accused person had committed
the offence, my predecessor-in-office, framed formal charge under
section 366(A) IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and the accusation
of charges were read over and explained to him, to which he pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. The prosecution side with a view to prove its case

Page 2 of 14
examined altogether 8 (eight) PWs including M.O. and 1.0. And the
defence side took full scope of cross-examination of Pws. The accused
person was examined u/s 313 of Cr. P. C. wherein he denied all such
allegations levelled against him by the prosecution witnesses. The plea
of the defenc is of total denial. The defence side has also adduced 1
(one) DW to disprove the prosecution case.

6. Heard argument of learned Addl. P. P and the learned
defence counsel. Perused the record.

7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person on 01-01-2018 in the late
night kidnapped the victim, a resident of village Dhumarpathar
under Patacharkuchi Police Station with intent to marry her
against her will and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 366 IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused person on 01-08-2018 and on
subsequent dates committed penetrative sexual assault upon
the victim and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012?

EVIDENCE OF THE WITNESSES

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me see what the
witnesses have stated.

9. PW - 1 Md. Abdul Suhur informant of this case deposed
that on 01.08.2018 at late night his daughter was not found at home
and as such, he searched about her but found no any clue of missing.
Then he has recalled that one day accused Minhaz threatened him and
on being suspect he filed FIR (Ext. 1) against him on 02.08.2018. The
date of birth of his daughter (victim) is 07.05.2001. After 8 to 10 days
of filing the FIR one day, I/C of Dnhumar pathar OP informed him that
they had got an information that his daughter was going from Delhi to
Kerala with the accused Minhaz and 17 days of filing of the FIR, I/C had
recovered his daughter and took her to the police station. Before few

Page 3 of 14
days missing of his daughter accused Minhaz Ali threatened him on the
road that if he (informant) would not solemnized marriage of his
daughter with him then the accused would marry with the victim
forcefully even if required by killing and assaulting.

In cross-examination, PW 1 deposed that he does not
know how his daughter went out from home. On being suspect he filed
this case against the accused Minhaz Ali. The FIR was_ not
drafted/written by him. PW 1 denied the suggestion that he have not
stated before the police that before few days of missing of his daughter
accused Minhaz Ali threatened him on the road that if he (informant)
would not solemnized marriage of his daughter with him then the
accused would marry with the victim forcefully even if required by
killing and assaulting. PW 1 also denied the suggestion that there was
a talk of marriage of his daughter with an other person so the victim
willingly eloped with the accused person.

10. PW 2 the victim girl has deposed that on 02/08/2018 she
herself willingly eloped with Minhaz. At first, they went to Guwahati
Railway station at about 10 am and from Guwahati Railway station to
Bongaigaon and therefrom to Delhi. Thereafter they went to Chennai
by train and from Chennai to Kerela where in they stayed in the house
of Sahnaj, one of his village sister. They were staying separately in
Kerala. Thereafter, they returned to Barpeta Road railway station and
then the the police personnel brought them to Dhumarpathar police
out post. On the next day, she was produced before the Court wherein
her statement was recorded by the Ld. Magistrate (Ext. 2). Thereafter,
she was medically examined at FAAMCH, Barpeta and handed over to
her father.

In cross-examination, PW 2 stated that Minhaz did not do
any bad work and bad behaviour with her. As she had love affair with
Minhaz too much for that she willingly eloped with him. At the time of
occurrence there was talk of her marriage with an another boy. Her
father had filed this case due to prior grudge against Minjaz.

Page 4 of 14
11. PW - 3 Md. Najumuddin Ahmed deposed that on
02.08.2018 he came to know that his grand-daughter was missing.
One day about 1 month ago accused Minhaj Ali gave a mobile phone to
the victim so they suspected him and filed the ejahar.

In cross-examination, PW 3 stated that he has no personal

knowledge how the victim was missing from home.

12. PW 4 Md. Usman Ali deposed that on 02.08.2018 he
heard that the victim was missing and finding no clue of her the
informant had filed the ejahar. After about some days they came to
know that victim was recovered at Barpeta Road Railway Station by the
police.

In cross-examination, PW 4 stated that he has no personal

knowledge how the victim was missing from home.

13. PW 5 Md. Falu Mia deposed that one day morning Sabur
called him to his house and told him that his daughter has been
missing and on searching could not find out her even to the house of
Minhaj Ali. Thereafter finding no alternative Abdur Sabur has filed the
FIR against accused Minhaj Ali.

In cross-examination, he stated that on being suspect to
Minhaj Ali, informant had filed this case against the accused.

14. PW-6 Md. Tiaz uddin deposed that one day at about 6
am Abdur Subur told that his daughter was missing. After 18 days, he
have heard that police has recovered the victim from the Barpeta Road
Railway Station.

In cross-examination, PW 6 stated that he has no personal
knowledge who had taken away the victim and why.

15. PW. 7 Dr. Mamata Devi deposed that on 20/08/2018 she
was posted as Demonstrator in the Department of forensic medicine
FAAMCH, Barpeta. On that day, at about 2 pm she examined a girl with
reference to Patacharkuchi PS. Case No. 511/18, u/s 366(A)/34 I.P.C

Page 5 of 14
after taking consent of the girl. According to the alleged victim, she is
in love with a boy named Minhajur Rahman from last 3 years. She
eloped with the boy on 02/08/2018 at around 4 am and went to
Guwahati and thereafter to Kerela. They had physical relationship
during this period. Her father registered a case against him and police
caught her on 17/08/2018 on Friday and brought today for medical
examination and on examination she found the followings :-

Physical Examination -

Identification mark 1) A black mole over right chest. 2) A
black mole 0.2 c.m as above right lateral lip on upper side. Weight - 35
Kg, Chest girth as nipple level 65 cm abdominal girth at navel level 51
cm General built & appearance - average. Hairs : Axillary/ body/ : 1-2
c.m in length, black in colour. Breast - Hemispherical in shape, soft in
consistency, nipple and areola brown in colour. Puberty (as told by the
individual) - 11 years. Menstruation (as told by the individual) -
Regular 30 days cycle. L.M.P. (as told by the individual) - 28/07/2018.
Mental condition - No abnormality detected. Gait - Normal. Intelligence
- Average. Wearing garments & any suspected stains present - Intact,
Stain absent. Bodily Injuries : Not detected at the time of examination.
Genital Examination :

Pubic hairs : 0.5 c.m in length, black in colour. Vulva (Labia
majora & minora) : Labia majora Exposed in lighotomy position.
Hymen : Recent tear at 9 o clock position oozing of Blood is present,
red in colour. Vagina : Healthy. Cervix & Uterus : Healthy, uterus not
Palpabale per abdominally. Fourchette & Perineum : Healthy. Vaginal
Swab collected/ not collected from posterior fornix. Result of vaginal
Swab smear examination: Microscopic examination of vaginal Smears
reveal no spermatozoa.

PW 7 opined that on the basis of physical (including
dental) examination, laboratory & radiological investigations done upon
the victim, evidence of recent sexual intercourse is not detected on her
person and no injury or violence mark is detected. Finding in the
hymen suggest recent forceful penetration. PW 7 proved the medical
examination report as Ext. 3 and Ext. 3(1) and Ext. 3(2) are her

Page 6 of 14
signatures. Ext. 3 (3) is the signature of Dr. Manoj Kr. Sinha.

In cross-examination, PW 7 deposed that in history the
victim stated before her that she had physical relationship with the
accused. Physical relationship and sexual relationship may be the
same, only difference is that intercourse may be present or may not be
present. Mere touching may be also physical relationship. She further
stated that 'recent' means within 3 to 5 days but in her report, she has
not explained the meaning of recent. PW 7 denied the suggestion that
the explanation that given in respect of physical relationship and
sexual relationship not same and proper. It is also denied by her that
she has not properly examined the victim as required under the law as
such given a false report.

16. PW. 8 Sri Ranjit Kalita deposed that on 02/08/2018 he was
working at Dhumarpathar out post as I/C. On that day at about 10 am
one Abdul Subur lodged an FIR stating inter-alia that on 01/08/2018 his
minor girl was kidnapped. Before taking place of the incident, the
accused person tried to kidnap her and for that he gave threating to
the informant. After receiving the FIR made GD entry No. 17 dated
02/08/2018 and forwarded the FIR to Patacharkuchi P.S. for registering
a case and taken up the matter for investigation. In the mean time O/C
Patacharkuchi P.S. had registered a case vide Patacharkuchi PS. Case
No. 5/18 u/s 366(A)/34 IPC and endorsed him to investigate the case.
During investigation, he has recorded the statement of the informant
and sent W.T. message to all O/C and I/C's of Assam for taking initiation
if victim was found. Thereafter went to the place of occurrence and
drew up the sketch map (Ext. 4) of the place of occurrence. After that
recorded the statement of the other witnesses of nearby places.
Thereafter went to the house of the accused Minhaj Ali but found him
absent at his home and after that engaged spy for collecting
information about the victim. On 17/08/2018 he had got an information
that the accused person was returning to Barpeta Road railway station
along with the victim and on the basis of that information they could
recover the victim. Thereafter they brought the victim girl to the out

Page 7 of 14
post and recorded her statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. On 18/08/2018
produced the victim before the Court of S.D.J.M(M), Bajali and in the
court magistrate had recorded her statement, thereafter given jimma
to her father. On 20/08/2018 the victim was sent to FAAMCH, Barpeta
for medical examination along with woman constable Bharati Kalita
and her father Abdul Subur. PW 8 stated that on 04/10/2018 at about 8
a.m. got an information that accused Minhaj Ali was present in the
market of Chenglimari and accordingly they nabbed him and forwarded
him to the Court. In the meantime, he was transferred and handed over
the case-diary. Case-diary shows that after his transferred, S.l. Pradip
Kr. Barman completed the remaining part of investigation and
submitted charge-sheet vide No. 250/18 dated 15/11/2018 against the
accused Minhaj Ali u/s 366(A) IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act. 2012.
Ext. 5 is the charge-sheet and Ext. 5(i) is the signature of S.I. Pradip Kr.
Barman.

In cross-examination, PW 8 deposed that he has not sent
the extract copy of the GD entry No. 17 to the Court. He does not know
whether any medical report of the victim was collected from Salbari
Model Hospital. From 18/08/2018 to 20/08/2018 the victim was with his
parents at their home.

17. D.W. - 01 Md. Minhaj Ali deposed that he had a love
affairs with victim girl of this case. Having got the knowledge of the
fact of their love affairs the family members of the victim decided to
solemnize her marriage with an another boy. So, knowing the
arrangement of her marriage one day she came to his house with a
view to marriage with him. When the victim came to his house with a
view to marriage with him then the family members lodged a case
against him stating that he had kidnapped her. He stated that he never
kidnapped her. Later on their marriage was solemnized by registering
it in the Court and since then they have been living together as
husband and wife at their house.

In cross-examination, DW 1 denied the suggestion that he
kidnapped the victim and gave threatening to the family members of

Page 8 of 14
her.
Discussions, Decision, and Reasons thereof

 

18. Perused the case record and also gone through the

provision of law.

19. The offence under section 4 of the Protection of Child from
Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act deals with punishment for penetrative
sexual assault and Section 3 of the POCSO Act defines penetrative
sexual assault. The offence of penetrative sexual assault under POCSO
Act and for that matter other offences also under this Act can be
committed only on the child. The definition of child u/s 2 (d) of the
POCSO Act is as follows :

“Child” means any person below the age of 18 years.

20. Thus, a person can be convicted for an offence under
POCSO Act only if the victim is below the age of 18 years.

21. In the instant case, let us see as to whether the victim was
a child, at the time of commission of offence, or not.

22. PW 1 the informant of this case has deposed that date of
birth of the victim is 07-05-2001 and at the time of occurrence she was
a minor girl. He also stated that on being suspect he filed the case
against the accused as he was also absent from his house. The original
birth certificate of the victim girl is with him in his house.

23. On perusal of the testimony of the victim in this case, it
appears that the victim has mentioned that her age was below 18
years at the time of happening of the incident. It is also stated before
the Magistrate while recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. that her
age was 17 years. She has also stated in her cross examination that
she had a love affair with the accused and she eloped with the accused
on her own. During the stay with the accused person he did not do any
bad work with her. Her father filed this false case due to prior enmity

Page 9 of 14
with the accused person.
24. PW 7, doctor, who examined the victim has not opined
anything regarding the age of the victim.

25. PW 1, PW 2 and PW 7 are the vital material witnesses of
this case. Though the informant and the victim stated that at the time
of happening of the incident the age of the victim was below 18 years
but they have not submitted any documentary prove to establish the
age of the victim. The I/O of this case has also not seized any
document in relating to the age of the victim to ascertain her actual
age.

26. Ld. Defence Counsel has also cited a ruling of Hon’ble
Supreme Court of India in “Jaya Mala vs-Home_ Secretary,
Government of Jammu and Kashmir & Ors.” reported in (1982) 2
SCC 538 wherein Hon’ble Supreme Court of India dealing with a case
were question of determination of the age was involved observed that
“one can take judicial notice that the margin of error in age ascertained
by radiological examination is 2 years on either side.”

27. But in this case the doctor did not opine anything
regarding to the age of the victim. Mere saying the age of a person
without any documentary prof is not sufficient to ascertain the actual
age of the victim as required under the law. As such, victim could not
able to prove her age below 18 years as per definition of child as
provided in Section 2 (d) of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012. Moreover, the evidence discussed herein above
clearly reveals that the victim was a consenting party to whatever has
happened with her as she had love affair with the accused. Hence, this
Court has no option except to fail the ascertaining the age of the

victim.

28. Therefore, this Court is constrained to hold that no offence
against her has committed u/s 4 of the POCSO Act by the accused

Page 10 of 14
person.

29. Moreover, DW 1 the accused person himself has deposed
that he had a love affairs with victim girl. Having got the knowledge of
the fact of their love affairs the family members of the victim decided
to solemnize her marriage with an another boy. So, knowing the
arrangement of her marriage one day she came to his house with a
view to marriage with him. When the victim came to his house with a
view to marriage with him then the family members lodged a case
against him stating that he had kidnapped her. He stated that he never
kidnapped her. It is also stated that they had solemnized their marriage
by registering it in the Court and since then they have been living
together as husband and wife at their house.

30. Learned defence counsel relied upon a judgment of
Hon'ble Kerela High Court in the case of Ashiq N.A. Vs State of Kerala in
CRL. MC. NO. 381 OF 2018 whereby the Hon'ble High Court has
quashed the criminal proceeding against and in the light of that the Ld.
defence counsel of this case prays to acquit the accused person from
the charges levelled against him.

a1. On perusal of the judgment it comes to light that the
Hon'ble Hon'ble Kerela High Court held that “......ceeeeeeeeeeeee It is by
now well settled that grave and serious offences as the one under
Sec.376 (rape) of the IPC cannot be the subject matter of quashment
of the impugned criminal proceedings on the ground of settlement
between the accused and the victim. {see Shimbhu & Anr. v. State of

Haryana [(2014) 13 SCC 318], Parbatbhai Aahir v. State of Gujarat [(2017) 9
SCC 641], Anita Maria Dias v. State of Maharashtra [(2018) 3 SCC 290],
Sebastian @ Solly v. State of Kerala /(2015) 1 KL/ 384, etc.}. However, this
Court has held in various decisions Crl.M.C. No. 381 / 2018 ..4..
including the one as in Freddy @ Antony Francis & Ors. v. State of
Kerala & Anr. [2017 KHC 344 = 2018 (1) KLD 558) that the exception to

Page 11 of 14
the above approach could be in cases where the accused has married
the defacto complainant and they have decided to settle all the
disputes and for the predominant purpose of the welfare of the defacto
complainant/ victim, to ensure her better future life, it is only just and
proper that this Court in exercise of the extra ordinary inherent powers
under Sec.482 of the CrPC could quash the impugned criminal
proceedings on the ground of settlement between the parties in cases
where the accused has married the defacto complainant and the
defacto complainant is insisting for quashment of the impugned
criminal proceedings, etc.

5, In the light of the above said aspects, more particularly in
the light of the submission made by the 2nd respondent, this Court is
inclined to consider the plea for quashment of impugned criminal
proceedings as otherwise it will detrimentally affect the family life of
2nd respondent (victim), and even the balance and harmony that could
be achieved by them in the resolution of disputes that again be
irrecoverably lost.”

32. As we already discussed above that the accused person
married the victim girl and now they have been living as husband and
wife together in the house of accused person and enjoyed a peaceful
married life, this court is of the considered opinion that the accused
person never kidnapped the victim girl by inducing or by any manner,
as such, the prosecution side has failed to bring home the charges as
levelled against him and hence the accused person could not be held

guilty.

33. Accordingly, the accused Minhaz Ali @ Minhazul is
acquitted of the offence charged u/s 366 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act,
2012 and set him at liberty forthwith.

34. A copy of this judgment and order be given to the the
District Magistrate, Barpeta u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

35. The Spl. POCSO Case is disposed of accordingly.

Page 12 of 14
36. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court
in presence of both the parties and | put my hand and seal of this Court
on this 5th day of November, 2019.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
Dictated & Corrected
by me

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Dictation taken and transcribed
by me.
(Alakesh Das, Steno)

Page 13 of 14
APPENDIX :-

Oral evidences :-

PW-1
PW-2
PW-3
Pw-4
PW-5
PW-6
PW-7

Md. Abdul Suhur
Victim

Md. Najumuddin Ahmed
Md. Usman Ali

Md. Falu Mia

Md. Tiaz Uddin

Dr. Mamata Devi

PW-8 Sri Ranjit Kalita

Documentary evidence :-

Ext. 1 Ejahar
Ext. 2 Statement of the victim

Ext. 3 Medical examination report.

Ext. 4 - Sketch Map
Ext. 5- Charge-sheet.

Defence evidence.

DW 1- Minhaz Ali

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Page 14 of 14
