Page 1 of 6

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 15/15

Informant: Sri Purna Kanta Deori,
S/o- Late Romai Deori,
R/o- Kololoa Deori Gaon,
PS- Khowang,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Sonu Deori@ Hunu,
S/o- Late Kalison Deori,
R/o- Kololoa Deori Gaon,
PS- Khowang,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: S. Dowarah, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 6

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 15/15
G.R. Case No. 632/15

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Sonu Deori@ Hunu

Charge u/S 6, r/w S. 5(1) PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 05-05-15, 08-06-15, 04-07-15, 08-07-15 & 01-08-15.
Date of argument : 09-12-15.
Date of Judgment ~~: 09-12-15.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that the accused Sri Sonu Deori@ Hunu used to molest
the alleged victim girls who were three minors aged between 6-9 years. As
per the prosecution story, the girls used to go to the house of the accused to
play and during this time, the accused used to molest them. On 09-03-15,
one Sri Purna Kanta Deori lodged the ejahar and accordingly, Knhowang PS
Case No. 11/15 was registered. In the course of investigation, the
Investigating Officer visited the place of occurrence, drew up Sketch-Map,
recorded the statement of the witnesses, apprehended the accused and sent
the victim girls for medical examination. the statement were also recorded by
the Magistrate under Section 164 CrPC. On completion of investigation, the
Investigating Officer filed Charge-Sheet against the accused.
Upon committal, this Court framed charges under Sections 6, r/w S. 5(I) of
Children From Sexual Offences Act (hereinafter PCSO Act) against the
accused person and the charge were read over and explained to the accused
person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined eight witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and S. Duwarah, learned

counsel for the defence.
5)

6)

7)

Page 3 of 6

POINT FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the accused person committed aggravated penetrative
sexual assault upon the alleged victims repeatedly?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

There is no dispute that the alleged victims are minors aged between 6-9
years.

PW-1 whom we shall call ‘X’ is allegedly one of the victims. She stated her
age to be 6 years. Her evidence was recorded after testing her intelligence
and understanding and on being satisfied that she can give rational answers
to the questions put to her. She deposed that one day, she went to the house
of the accused along with her friend Muni and while they were playing, the
accused rubbed his penis against her ‘pupu’ (vagina). He also pinched her
cheek, lightly tugged her hair and also gave her morton (tifee). The accused
did it inside his house. Thereafter, she went back to her house and reported
the matter to her mother. During cross-examination, she deposed that there
were other family members of the accused, i.e., his mother, wife and son and
there was also a jhulna (Swing) in his house and the children including her
used to go there to play swing. While playing, they sometimes used to
scream because of which the accused used to scold them and he also used to
pinch her cheek. PW-1 further stated that the accused used to love them as
granddaughter and used to give them morton, etc. Therefore, much of what
‘X’ had stated in her examination-in-chief, has been diluted by her version
during cross-examination.

PW-2, another alleged victim aged about 8 years, deposed that the accused
resides near their house. He used to invite them to his house and she along
with Y’ and ‘Z’ used to go his house, who used to give them morton. When
they went to his house, he used to rub his penis against their vagina. He also
used to touch their breast and buttock. Thereafter, he let them go after giving
morton. When he used to do such things and they wanted to go home, he
used to tell them to stay back. He also used to tell them not to report to their
parents and threatened to beat them with stick if they told anybody.
Thereafter, they reported the matter to their mother. During cross-
examination, PW-2 stated that there was jhulna (swing) in the house of the

accused. The son of the accused used to beat them with a stick. There were
8)

9)

Page 4 of 6

members in the family of the accused like his mother, his wife and one small
son. The accused used to give them motron because of love towards them.
During their play in the house of the accused, they used to raise halla and at
that time, the son of the accused used to sleep for which the accused used to
rebuke them. Out of love, the accused used to pinch their cheek and used to
tug their hair. On the day of coming to the Magistrate for deposition (under
Section 164 CrPC), PW-2 stated that they came with her mother and father
and as tutored by them, she deposed before the Court. At the time of
recording her statement, she came with her parents and as tutored by them,
she stated before the Magistrate. Although, PW-2 denied the defence
suggestion that the accused did not sexually molest her, defence succeeded
in introducing a good deal of doubt into the version given by PW-2 during her
examination-in-chief, regard being had to the tender age of the witness.
PW-3, another alleged victim girl aged about nine years deposed that PW-1 &
2 told her that the accused used to tell them to open their panties. During
cross-examination, she stated that only PW-2 told her the same. The accused
never asked her to open her panty. He used to give them morton out of love.
Since PW-3 did not state about the point of time when PW-2 allegedly
reported the matter to PW-3, her evidence must be rejected as hearsay and
cannot be used to corroboration of the evidence of PW-2. Moreover, she
categorically stated that the accused did not ask her to open her panty and
she did not make any other allegations against the accused. This itself casts
significant doubt on the prosecution story.

PW-4 Sri Purna Kanta Deori, the informant and father of PW-1 only deposed
that when his daughter and PWs-2 & 3 used to go to the house of the
accused for playing, the accused used to pinch their chick while giving
morton. During cross-examination, he stated that he did not know who wrote
the ejahar and he did not read the contents of the same before lodging. He
further stated that out of instigation of some other persons, he lodged the
ejahar and he has no allegation against the accused. He further stated that
the mother of the victim girls did not tell him anything regarding the alleged
incident. Therefore, the version of the informant and father of one of the

victims, thoroughly demolishes the prosecution story.

10) PW-7 Smti. Phunu Deori, mother of PW-1 deposed that her daughter told her

that the accused used to touch the private parts of the alleged victims by
Page 5 of 6

opening their panties. But during cross-examination, she categorically stated
that her daughter did not tell her any such thing and that the accused used
to slap the back of her daughter out of love. She further stated that the
accused is in the relationship of grandfather of her daughter and that some
persons instigated her to lodge the case against the accused and as per their
instruction, her husband lodged the ejahar and that she had no allegation
against the accused.

11) Similarly, PW-5 Smti. Beauti Deori, mother of the alleged victim PW-3 while
supporting the prosecution case during her examination-in-chief, stated
during cross-examination that her daughter did not tell her about any sexual
act committed by the accused.

12) The evidence of PW-6 Smti. Khiroda Deori, motherof the alleged victim PW-3
also meets the same fate. It further appears that the mother of the three
girls refused medical examination of their daughters although they were sent
for medical examination by the Investigating Officer.

13)In view of what has been discussed above, it is not established that the
accused person committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon the
alleged victims and the point is answered accordingly.

14)In the result, I hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its case
beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused person is acquitted
of the offence under Sections 6, r/w S. 5(I) PCSO Act and he be set at liberty
forthwith.

15) The bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6 (six) months
under Section 437-A CrPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 9" day of

December, 2015.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 6 of 6

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
(1) PW-1 The alleged victim;
(2) PW-2 The alleged victim;
(3) PW-3 The alleged victim;
(4) PW-4 Sri Purna Kanta Deori;
(5) PW-5 Smti. Beauti Deori;
(6) PW-6 Smti. Khiroda Deori;
(7) PW-7 Smti. Phunu Deori; and
(8) PW-8 SI Uttam Adhikari.
List of Exhibits:
(1) Ext. 1 Statement of the victim;
(2) Ext. 2 Statement of the victim;
(3) Ext. 3 Statement of the victim;
(4) Ext. 4 Ejahar;
(5) Ext. 5 Sketch-Map;
(6) Ext. 6 Medical Report of the victim;
(7) Ext. 7 Medical Report of the victim;
(8) Ext. 8 Medical Report of the victim; and
(9) Ext. 9 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
