1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present : Md. A.U. Ahmed, AJS,
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 12/2018 (Special No.
136/2018) corresponding to GR Case No.
303/2018 & Borlangfer Police Station Case
No. 14/2018

Under Sections 363 of IPC/ 4 of the POCSO
Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Anjan Manjhi

Name of informant/complainant:
Shri Lagan Ram
Son of Late Sukhraj Ram
Village: Golai Basti
PS: Borlangfer
District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Anjan Manjhi
Son of Shri Suresh Manjhi
Village: Amrit Hanse Basti
PS: Borlangfer
District: Karbi Anglong Assam.
Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public
Prosecutor
For the defence : Mr R. Hanse

Argument heard on : 18.09.2019
2|Page

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 23.09.2019

dl

UDGMENT

It is a case of kidnapping of minor child and
penetrative sexual assault alleged to have been
committed by the accused person.

The prosecution case in brief is that on 24.03.2018,
the informant-Shri Lagan Manjhi lodged an ejahar
with the O/C of Borlangfer Police Station stating inter
alia that on 23.03.2018, his victim daughter aged 17
years went to Lumding for collecting her admit card
and she had not returned home. He suspected that
the accused, Shri Anjan Kumar Manjhi might have
kidnapped her. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C
Borlangfer Police Station registered a criminal case
vide its Police Station case No. 14/2018 under section
366 A of IPC. On completion of investigation, 1.0.
submitted the charge-sheet under section 366 A of
IPC R/W Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused person. Hence the prosecution has come up.

On completion of appearance of the accused person,
copy was furnished to him. Having carefully gone
through the submissions of the learned lawyers of
both | found ground for presuming that the accused
person committed the offences under sections 363 of
IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act and accordingly, the
charges were framed. The particulars of the offences
charged was duly read over and explained to the
accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.

Prosecution has examined as many as 6 (six)
witnesses including the official witnesses. Statement
of the accused person was recorded under section
3|Page

313 of CrPC. Defence has examined none. Plea of
defence is of total denial.

5. Points for determination are:

(i) Whether the accused person on 23.03.2018 at
Golai Basti under Borlangfer Police Station
kidnapped the victim aged 17 years from the
lawful guardianship of the informant and that
he thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 363 of IPC?

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same
date, time and place caused penetrative
sexual assault upon the victim, and that he
thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 4 of the POCSO Act?

6. Decisions and reasons thereof:

7. | have very carefully gone through verbal arguments
advanced by the learned counsels of both sides as
well as evidence on record. At the very outset, the
learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused
person has contended that the prosecution has
miserably failed to prove the case against the
accused person. On the other hand, the learned
Public Prosecutor, Mr D.K. Deka _ refuting the
aforesaid submission has submitted that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case
against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions, it
would be appropriate to give a glance at the

evidence on record.

8. PW-1 is Shri Lagan Ram who has deposed in his
deposition that he is the informant of this case. The
victim is his daughter and the accused is known to
4|Page

him. The incident occurred on 23.03.2018. On the
day of occurrence, his daughter Smti Laxmi went to
Lumding College. As she did not come back, they
started searching her. As he did not find her out, he
lodged the ejahar at the Police Station. The house of
the accused, Shri Anjan Manjhi is situated near his
house. As the accused was not available in his house
from the date of the occurrence, suspicion arose that
he might have eloped his daughter. After about one
month of the occurrence, they came to know that the
accused and the victim were staying in Bihar and
accordingly, they left for Bihar. They recovered the
victim and the accused from a place named Mairua in
Simon district, Bihar. On the following day of his
return from Bihar along with the victim, the father of
the accused brought him (accused) to Borlangfer and
handed him over to police of Borlangfer Police
Station. At the time of occurrence, the victim was 17
(Seventeen) years old. Police got the victim medically
examined and her statement recorded in the Court.
Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his signature.

9. PW-2 is Shri Shiv Kumar Ram who has stated that the
informant is his father. He knows the accused person.
The victim is his sister. The incident occurred on
23.03.2018. On the day of occurrence, the victim
went to the college at Lumding by train to collect her
admit card. As she did not return, they started
searching her. At that time, they could know that the
accused, who stayed about 1/2 KM away from their
house, was not available at his house. They
suspected that the accused might have eloped his
sister. On the next day of the occurrence, his father
lodged an ejahar at the Police Station. After about
one month of the occurrence, they could know that
5|Page

the victim and the accused were staying in Bihar.
Thereafter, parents went to the place of Bihar where
the victim and the accused took shelter. His parents
recovered the victim and brought her to Borlangfer.
The father of the accused also went to Bihar and
brought him (accused) to Borlangfer. The police of
Borlangfer Police Station apprehended the accused
and brought him to Police Station. The police also
brought the victim to the Police Station and got her
medically examined and her statement recorded in
the Court. At the time of occurrence, the victim was
17 years old. Police seized two certificates out of
them one is HSLC certificate of 2017. He put his
signature in the seizure list. Ext.2 is the seizure list
and Ext.2(1) is his signature.

10.PW-3 is Miss Sima Kumari Ram who has stated in her
testimony that informant is her father and the victim
is her sister. The occurrence took place on
23.03.2018. On the day of the occurrence at 10:30
AM the victim went to Lumding by train from
Borlengfer to collect Higher Secondary Admit Card
but she not returned. Thereafter they started
searching her. On the following night they came to
know that the accused also went untraced on the
Same day from his house which is about ¥% KM away
from her house and as such they suspected that the
accused had kidnapped the victim. On the following
day her father went to the Borlengfer Police Station
and lodged ejahar therein. After 1 (One) month of the
occurrence they came to know that both accused and
the victim were staying in Bihar. Thereafter her
parents and her sister went to Bihar and took the
accused and the victim to Borlengfer Police Station
6|Page

ll.

back along with father of the accused. Police got the

victim medically examined.

PW-4 is Miss Laxmi Kumari Ram who told that the
informant is her father. She knows the accused
person. The occurrence took place on 23 March,
2018. At the time of occurrence, she was 17 years
old. On the day of occurrence at about 10:30 AM, she
went out of home and left for Lumding College to
procure her admit card. From Borlangfer to Lumding
she went by train. The accused also went to Lumding
along with her by train. On her getting down from
train, the accused proposed to visit Lumding Town
which she agreed. After visiting Lumding, they came
back to Lumding Station, but the accused again
proposed her to go to Bihar. She agreed to his
proposal and accordingly, the accused took her to
Bihar and made arrangement to stay at the house of
his uncle in Siwan District with her. The accused kept
her there for one month and she stayed there with
the accused as husband and wife. The accused made
physical contact with her many a times. Thereafter,
her parents went to Bihar and brought her back along
with the accused to Borlangfer and produced them at
Borlangfer Police Station. Police got her medically
examined and statement recorded in the Court. Ext.3
is her statement and Ext.3(1) and 3(2) are her
signatures. Police seized her original school leaving
certificate and registration card. Ext.2 is the seizure
list and Ext.2(2) is her signature in the seizure list.
M.Ext.1 is the original school leaving certificate
issued by Kishan Hindi High School and M.Ext.2 is the
High School Leaving Certificate of 2017. On the day
of her deposition in the Court, she could see M.Ext.1
and M.Ext.2 and identify them.
7|Page

12.PW-5 is Dr. A. Goswami who stated that on
10.05.2018 while she was working as senior Medical
& Health Officer at Diphu Civil Hospital, she
examined the victim in connection with Borlangfer
Police Station Case No.14 of 2018 and gave findings
as follows:

According to the pathologist, spermatozoa was
not detected on the slide. No injuries seen anywhere
on the body of the victim. According to the
radiologist, the age of the victim girl was below 18
(Eighteen) years i.e. (16/17). Ext.4 is the medical
examination report and Ext.4(1) and 4(2) are her
signatures.

13.PW-6 is Md Eunishar Rahman who is the investigating
police officer of this case. During investigation, he
recorded the statement of the informant in the Police
Station, proceeded to the place of occurrence, drew a
sketch map of the PO and recorded the statements of
the witnesses. Thereafter, he searched the house of
the accused, but did not find him and then he
communicated the matter to all the police stations
through W.T. Message. On 09.05.2018 the accused
and the victim physically appeared at the police
station. He interrogated the victim at the police
station with the help of woman police. He also
interrogated the accused person and arrested him.
He seized one school certificate and a HSLC
certificate vides Ext.2 and Ext.2(3) is his signature.
M.Ext.1 and M.Ext.2 are the school certificate and
HSLC certificate. He got the victim medically
examined and her statement recorded in the Court.
On completion of his investigation, he found
sufficient materials against the accused person under
8|Page

sections 366-A of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act and
accordingly, he submitted the charge-sheet there
under. Ext.6 is the charge-sheet and Ext-6(1) is his

signature.

14.For attracting the sections 363 of the IPC/ 4 of the
POCSO Act, the victim needs to be a child. According
to section 2(1)(d) of the POCSO Act a person is child
who has completed 18 years. Ext-1 is the ejahar
where in it has been stated that at the time of
occurrence, the victim was 17 years. PW-1 is the
father of the victim, PW-2 is the brother of the victim
and PW-3 is the sister of the victim. PW-4 is the
victim. PW-1 to PW-3 have categorically stated in
their evidence that at the time of occurrence victim
was 17 years supporting evidence of PW-4 so far as
her age is concerned. There is un-disputed evidence
on record that vide Ext-2 police seized one school
certificate and High School Leaving Certificate. From
the aforesaid certificates it appears that date of birth
of the victim is 05.01.2001. On calculation basing on
date of birth as reflected in M-Ext-1 and M-Ext-2 at
the time of occurrence the victim was 17 year 2
months 19 days. Ext-4 is the medical report. PW-5 is
the Medical Officer who examined the victim on
10.05.2018. According to PW-5, the victim was 16/17
years old at the time of occurrence. Learned defence
counsel has submitted that Material Ext.1 and
Material Ext.2 cannot be acted upon as Birth
certificate has not be produced and proved. He has
further submitted that normally in birth certificate
actual date of birth is not given. It is the established
rule that in absence of the birth certificate, School
Leaving certificate can be acted upon and as such |
find no force in the submissions made by the learned
9|Page

1,

defence counsel above. Defence has not disputed the
evidence of PW-1 to PW-5 regarding age of the victim
at the time of occurrence while they have been cross-
examined and as such it can be held that it is the
admitted fact that at the time of occurrence the
victim was below 18 years. Accordingly it is held that
at the time of occurrence the victim was child.

None saw the accused person taking the victim away
while she was going to Lumding for collecting of
admit card. PW-1 is the father of the victim who has
stated in his evidence that after knowing that the
victim and the accused were in Bihar he and other
went there and took both the accused and the victim
back. Father of the accused handed over the accused
to Borlengfer Police Station. Similarly evidence of PW-
2 who is the brother of the victim and PW-3 who is
the sister of the victim clearly shows that their father
found the victim and the accused together in Bihar
and took them back. In this instant case most
important and vital witness is the victim who has
been examined as PW-4. Her evidence clearly shows
that on 23.03.2018 she willingly fled away with the
accused person to Bihar wherein she stayed with him
as a husband and wife and that her parents took her
and the accused back to Borlengfer Police Station.
There is a no denial on the part of the accused that
the victim was recovered from his possession and
that the victim fled away him. That being position |
am constrained to hold that the victim went to Bihar
with accused and stayed there for a period of 1 (one)
month and that the victim was recovered from his
possession.

16.There is a no evidence on record showing that the

accused took away the victim with the consent of his
10|Page

lawful guardian. There is a no dispute that PW-1
being a father of the victim girl is a lawful guardian.
His evidence is totally silent that without his
knowledge the accused took away the victim from his
lawful possession and kept in Bihar which is much far
away from his house.

17.The victim marked as PW-4 has stated in her
evidence that on 23.03.2018 the accused took her to
Bihar and kept her in the house of his uncle wherein
they stayed as husband and wife for 1 (One) month.
She has further stated that the accused made sexual
intercourse with her for several times. Ext.4 is the
medical report of the victim made by the PW-5 on
10.05.2018 which shows that there was absence of
hymen and that the vagina admitted 2 fingers. From
the medical report it appears that the victim was
habitual to sexual intercourse. Taking all aspects into
consideration | am convinced to hold that the victim

was subject to sexual intercourse.

18.The victim has clearly admitted in her cross
examination that a love affair was developed her and
the accused which continued for 3 (Three) years and
that on her sweet will she fled away with the accused
to Bihar. She also admitted that the accused made
sexual intercourse with her due consent. She has
further stated in her cross examination that she does
not desire the accused person to be punished.

19.The section 363 of the IPC relates to punishment for
kidnapping which reads thus:- “363. Punishment
for kidnapping.—Whoever kidnaps any person from
l[India] or from lawful guardianship, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for
11|Page

a term which may extend to seven years, and shall
also be liable to fine.”

20.The section 361 of the IPC relates to kidnapping from

21

lawful guardianship which reads thus:- “361.
Kidnapping from lawful guardianship.—Whoever
takes or entices any minor under 1[sixteen] years of
age if a male, or under 2[eighteen] years of age if a
female, or any person of unsound mind, out of the
keeping of the lawful guardian of such minor or
person of unsound mind, without the consent of such
guardian, is said to kidnap such minor or person from
lawful guardianship. Explanation.—The words “lawful
guardian” in this section include any person lawfully
entrusted with the care or custody of such minor or

other person.
(Exception) —This section does not extend to the act

of any person who in good faith believes himself to
be the father of an illegitimate child, or who in good
faith believes himself to be entitled to lawful custody
of such child, unless such act is committed for an

immoral or unlawful purpose.”

.It is a case under sections 363 of the IPC/ 4 of the

POCSO Act. The section 4 of the POCSO Act is related
to punishment for penetrative sexual offence which
reads thus:- “4. Punishment for penetrative
sexual assault.- Whoever commits penetrative
sexual assault shall be punished with imprisonment
of either description for a term which shall not be
less than seven years but which may extend to
imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.”
The section 3 of the POCSO Act read thus:- “3.
Penetrative sexual assault.- A person is said to

commit "penetrative sexual assault" if-
12|Page

a. he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into
the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or
b. he inserts, to any extent, any object or a

part of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina,
the urethra or anus of the child or makes the child to

do so with him or any other person; or
C. he manipulates any part of the body of the

child so as to cause penetration into the vagina,
urethra, anus or any part of body of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or
d. he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina,

anus, urethra of the child or makes the child to do so
to such person or any other person.

22.What the Hon'ble Apex Court has observed in the
case Law of Independent Thought v. Union of
India, reported in “(2017) 10 SCC 800” regarding
POCSO Act is reproduced below:

“98. Similarly, the provisions of the Pocso Act make
it quite explicit that the dignity and rights of a child
below 18 years of age must be recognised and
respected. For this purpose, special provisions have
been made in the Pocso Act as for example Section
28 thereof which provides for the establishment of a
Special Court to try offences under the Act. Section
29 of the Pocso Act provides that where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting
to commit an offence under Section 3 (penetrative
sexual assault) or under Section 5 (aggravated
penetrative sexual assault) then the Special Court
Shall presume that such a person has committed or
abetted or attempted to commit the offence unless
the contrary is proved. Similarly, the procedure and
13|Page

powers of a Special Court have been delineated in
Section 33 of the Pocso Act and this section provides
for not only a child-friendly atmosphere in the Special
Court but also child-friendly procedures, some of
which are given in subsequent sections of the
statute. Once again the legislative slant is in favour
of a child thereby giving substantive meaning to
Article 15(3) of the Constitution.”

23.It has become crystal clear that the POCSO Act is in-
acted especially for the protection and welfare of the
child. For committing penetrative sexual assault
consent of the victim is immaterial. The offence
committed in this instant case is against the State
and as such the accused cannot go unpunished.

24.In view of the discussion made above, | find that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case
against the accused person under sections 363 of the
IPC/4 of the POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

25.In the result, | find the accused Shri Anjan Manjhi
guilty under section 363 of the IPC/ 4 of the POCSO
Act and accordingly he is convicted.

26.On the point of sentence the accused person is heard
and to that effect his statement is recorded. Accused
person is a young boy of age 22 years who is the only
earning member of his family. Learned defence
counsel has submitted that the fact of the case
demands the accused to be punished leniently. On
the other hand, learned public prosecutor has
submitted that the accused needs to be punished as
per provision of Law. Punishment prescribed in the
section 4 of the POCSO Act is un-doubtfully harsh.
14|Page

Punishment prescribed in the section 363 of the IPC is
some extend liberal. POCSO Act is a_ special
legislation by which a legislature intends to protect
the child from any sort of exploitation. In the instant
case the accused took away the victim and kept in
the State of Bihar which is far away from the parental
house of the victim without keeping any touch with
her parental house. Parents of the victim had to
spend 30 days without warm touch of their minor
daughter. Considering all aspects | do hereby Order
the accused Shri Anjan Manjhi to suffer RI of 6 (Six)
months for the section 363 of the IPC and RI of
7 (Seven) years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1000/-
i/d SI of 2 (Two) months for the section 4 of the
POCSO Act. Both sentences will run concurrently.
Seized certificates be returned to the victim through
informant after due course of time. Let a certified
copies of Judgment and order be supplied to the
accused person at free of cost. Also send a copy of
the Judgment to the leaned District Magistrate, Karbi
Anglong, Diphu in terms of the section 365 of the
CrPC.

27.Accordingly this case is disposed on contest.

28.Given under hand and seal of this court today, the

23” day of September, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and corrected

by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong,

Diphu.
15|Page

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Shri Logon Ram

PW2- Shri Shib Kumar Ram
PW3- Miss Sima Kumari Ram
PW4- Victim

PW5- Dr. A. Goswami

PW6- Md. Unishar Rahman

Defence Witnesses: Nil
Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Seized Articles

Ext.3- Statement of the Victim

Ext.4- Medical Examination Report

Ext.5- Sketch map of the PO

Ext.6- Charge Sheet

Material Ext.1- Original Board Certificate

Material Ext.2- Original High School Leaving Certificate

Defence Exhibited: Nil

Special Judge,
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam.
