Page 1 of 9

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 66 of 2017
Under section 18 of POCSO Act.
(Missamari PS Case No. 116 of 2018)

State of Assam

—Vs-
Sri Prakash Kurmi _ Accused Person

Present : Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State : Mr.™.C. Baruah,

Special\Public Prosecutor

For the accused : \Smti Dulumoni Sinha, Legal Aid

counsel.

Date of Argument_: 16-07-2019.

Date.of Judgment : 30-07-2019.

JUDGMENT

1. The genesis of the present case is sexual assault on a seven years
old girl (herein after called as “the victim”). It is alleged that on 13-07-2018 at
around 5.30 p.m., in absence of other family members, the accused Prakash

Kurmi, who is the uncle of the victim, forcefully committed rape on the child.

2. Investigation was initiated on a telephonic information from one
Suresh Tanti that one Prakash Kurmi committed rape on the victim girl, aged
about 7 years, on which Belsiri Police Out Post GDE No. 183 dated 13-07-2018

was made. On receipt of the verbal information, I/C Paban Kr. Sut along with

 
Page 2 of 9

staff visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the victim and
other witnesses, drew the sketch map (Ext. 4) of the place of occurrence and
arrested the accused. On the next day i.e., on 14.07.18 on receipt of the FIR
(Ext.1) from the informant (PW 2), the Officer-in-charge of Missamari PS
registered the case being Missamari P.S. Case No. 116/18 u/s 4 of POCSO Act
and himself investigated the case. In course of investigation, the Investigating
Officer (PW 9) recorded the statement of witnesses and on completion of
investigation having found materials, laid chargesheet against the accused
Prakash Kurmi u/s 18 of POCSO Act.

a. On appearance of the accused person before ‘this. Court, after
furnishing necessary copies as required u/s 207 of Cr.P.Cx.and having heard
both parties, my learned predecessor, framed charge u/s 18 of POCSO Act
against the accused Prakash Kurmi and particulars of the charge on being
read over and explained to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty and

claimed for trial.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as ten
witnesses. On closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of the accused
was recorded u/s 313 CriP.C. wherein the accused denied all the incriminating
evidence that emerged against him and stated that he used to call the
victim's father as\dada who keeping their daughter (victim) in his house went
to Delhi to ‘do work. During that period as the girl used to go here and there,
hence he abused her and on the relevant day finding her in another’s house,
he brought her home, got her bathed and asked her to sleep with his two sons
but then the villagers suspecting that he did something with her, lodged the
case falsely against him.

5. I have heard the argument of the learned counsel of both sides and

also have gone through the materials on record.
Page 3 of 9

6. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) Whether the accused Sri Prakash Kurmi on 13-07-2018 at
around 5.30 p.m. at Majengjuli under Missamari Police
Station attempted to commit any offence punishable under
the POCSO Act or to cause such an offence to be committed
and in such attempt, does any act towards the commission of
the offence, on the victim Miss "X", a minor girl aged about 7
years, and thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 18 of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

7. Mr. M. Baruah, the learned. Special Public Prosecutor
strenuously argued that the materials on record undoubtedly project a case of
sexual assault on a minor girl. He further submitted that the evidence of the

witnesses of alleged sexual assault is enough to convict the accused person.

8. Controverting the said argument, Smti Dulumoni Sinha, the learned
legal Aid counsel appearing»fors the accused, submitted that the evidence
available on record coupled\with the evidence of the victim, does not warrant

conviction of the accused*person.

9. In\the case, the victim claimed her age as 8 years at the time of
incident. The evidence of the witnesses also disclosed that the victim was less
than.10. years old at that time and the medical evidence also shows her age
as 7-9\years. Age of the victim is not disputed in the case. In the above it can
be safely held that the victim was below the age of 12 years and a child as
defined in section 2(d) of POCSO Act.

10. Now the question is whether accused Prakash Kurmi committed any
offence on the victim child. In this regard let me travel through the evidence

adduced by the prosecution side.
Page 4 of 9

11. PW 1 Sri Sumit Kullu, in his evidence, deposed that after the incident,
the victim who is less than 10 years, reported them that accused Prakash
Kurmi by opening her panty committed her rape. Hearing the incident, they
informed police. He stated that they met the accused in his house in
inebriated condition. According to him taking advantage of absence of other
family members the accused committed the misdeed on the victim girl. During
cross he stated that his house is just adjacent to the house of the accused.
Near the house of accused Prakash Kurmi, there are many houses. He further
stated that before his arrival at the place of occurrence, Manglu;.Dan, Suresh
Tant and 2/3 others reached there. He denied the suggestion that the fact of
reporting the incident by the victim was not stated ‘before’ police during

investigation.

12. PW 2, Salmi Topno, in her evidence, stated that on the day of
incident, at around 5.30 p.m. in absence ofvother family members, accused
opened the panty of the victim and kissedsher. At that time one Felesita came
to the house of the accused and seeing the incident raised hulla. Hearing
hulla, she at first rushed to the place of occurrence and saw the accused and
the victim. Then on enquiry, the victim told that accused opened her panty
and kissed her. Then.she reported the matter to the VDP secretary over
telephone whosaccordingly came and on being asked the victim, she narrated
the incident.in her presence. Thereafter, local people gathered and called
police.“She further stated that due to parents death the victim girl used to
residexintthe house of the accused. Regrading the incident, as member of the
VDP. she filed the FIR vide Ext. 1. During cross, she stated that at the time of
incident, the inmates of neighbouring houses were present except Anjana.
She stated that the accused's family consists of his wife and children and at
the time of incident, the accused’s wife went out for work but their children
were at home. She had not seen the incident. She denied the suggestion that
the fact of reporting by the victim that accused opened her panty and kissed
her was not stated before the police. She also denied the suggestion that the
fact of arriving of Felesita in the house of the accused and witnessing the
incident were not stated before the police. According to him, victim still

resides in the house of the accused.

 
Page 5 of 9

13. PW 3, the wife of the accused, deposed that their niece the victim
used to reside with them since last 2/3 months prior to the incident and on
the day when she returned home, police took her husband and the victim to
the police station. Then, on being enquired the victim told her that accused
attempted to kiss her but on arrival of one Felesita, he could do nothing.
During cross, she stated that the parents of the victim used to keep their
daughter in her house when they went outside for work and in those period
sometimes, the accused changed her clothes and also got bathed her.
According to her, accused always treated the victim as his ownschild and fed

her meal personally but the victim never complained her against the accused.

14, PW 4 Felesita Egress, a girl of 8 years, deposed thaton the day when
she went to the house of the accused to bring pumpkin, she saw the victim
crying outside the house. The victim told“her ‘that the accused kissed her
which she did not expect from her uncle (accused). According to this witness,
victim also told her that the accused attempted to commit “publa” means
rape. Then she along with the victim.went to the house of PW 2 and reported
the incident. During cross,.she stated that she did not know the meaning of
“publa” and on that day, for \the first time she went to the house of the

accused.

15. PW 5 isthe victim herself. She deposed that on the day when she
was in theshouse*of the accused the accused kissed her on her cheek when
his wife was not at home. At that time her uncle was in drunken state.
Thereafter, Felesita came there and she informed the matter to Felesita and
also narrated the matter to PW 2. She made statement before the Magistrate
in presence of accused’s wife and presently she is residing with the wife of the

accused.

During cross she admitted that accused and his wife treated her as
their own daughter and they provided her meal and clothes as their children.
She also admitted that on earlier occasions also her uncle (accused) kissed
her, opened her pant like other days and got bathed her. She further stated
that on the day of incident as the accused rebuked her hence she was crying,

but she could not say why PW 2 filed the case.

 
Page 6 of 9

16. PW 6 Miss J. Gogoi, the learned Judicial Magistrate, 1% class, Tezpur
recorded the statement of the victim us/ 164 Cr.P.C vide Ext. 2. PW 7 Sri
Suresh Tanti only heard that accused Prakash Kurmi committed rape on his

adopted daughter when she was 7/8 years old.

17. PW 9 Sri Paban Kr. Sut, the Investigating Officer, deposed that on
13-07-2018 on receiving a telephonic information from Suresh Tanti that
accused Prakash Kurmi committed rape on a young girl of 7 years at village
Mejengjuli, he made the Belsiri OP GDE NO. 183 dated 13-07-2018 and along
with staff went to the place of occurrence. There he heard that accused fled
away after committing the incident. He drew the sketch map. of the place of
occurrence vide Ext. 4 and proved the extract copy of GDE.No. 183 dated 13-
07-2018 as Ext.5 . He recorded the statement of. the victim and other
witnesses, sent the victim to TMCH for medical examination and arrested the
accused. During cross, he stated that he did not’seize any wearing apparel of

the victim or the accused.

18. PW 9 SI Kanak Hazarikaj.deposed that on being endrosed him to
investigate the case after filing the FIR, he recorded the statement of
witnesses, collected’ the ‘medical report and finding sufficient materials
submitted chargesheet against the accused u/s 18 of POCSO Act.

19. PW.10. Dr, Geetumoni Sonowal, the Medical Officer, deposed that on
16-07-2018 she examined the victim in connection with Missamari PS Case
No... 116/18 who gave the history of sexual assault on 13-07-2018 and on
examination, found hymen intact but found no evidence of recent sexual
intercourse or violence mark on her person and victim is above 7 years and

below 9 years of age. She proved the medical report as Ext.7.

20. In the case the evidence of the Pws reveal that the accused is the uncle
of the victim and the alleged incident occurred when her parents keeping her
in the house of the accused went outside for work. Lateron after the death of
her parents she used to reside in the house of the accused and still is residing
there. Victim's evidence shows that on the day of the incident when PW3 her

aunty the wife of the accused was not at home, the accused who was in

 
Page 7 of 9

drunken state, kissed on her cheek. Then Felesita (PW4) came and she
informed the incident to Felesita. During cross examination she clearly stated
that the accused and his wife treated her as their own daughter and on earliar
occassions also the accused kissed her and got bather her. She further stated
that on the day of the incident, the accused opened her pant like other days.
PW4 the minor girl aged about 8 years who was reported first by the victim
testified that on the day when she went to the house of the accused to bring
pumpkin, found the victim crying outside of the house and she reported her
that the accused kissed her and attempt to commit her publa» Though this
child witness clarified the meaning of publa as rape, but it iss, difficult ot
believe that a child of 8 years would know what is rape*and in’cross she also
admitted that she did not know the meaning of 'publa’. Moreover the material
particular that the victim told her that the accused attempted to commit her
rape was not stated before the investigating ‘officer. On the other hand, the
victim does not disclose any act towards attempt of rape. Rather regarding
the reason of cry the victim stated that on the day for scolding by the
accused, she cried. The evidence,of.PW4 and PW5 also shows that after PW4
came to the house of the accused, they went to the house of PW2 Salmi
Topno where the victim*narrated her about the incident. But PW2's evidence
is that hearing hulla she reached to the place of occurrence and seeing the
accused andsthe victim, when she enquired, the victim told that the accused
opened her, pantwand kissed her and at that time PW4 Felesita came and
seeing thexincident raised hulla. But PW4 herself nowhere claimed that she
witnessed’ the incident. The investigating officer confirmed the fact of
reporting PW2 by the victim that the accused opened her pant and kissed her
was not stated by PW2 in her statement u/s 161 Cr.PC made immediately
after the incident. PW2's evidence also disclosed that at the time of the
incident the children of the accused were present at home and since the day,
the victim stayed in his house, he treated her like his own daughter. Though
PW1 stated that the victim told them that the accused by opening her panty

committed her rape but the victim herself did not corroborate his version.

The unimpeachable evidence of the child and PW4 and PW3 who were

reported first by the victim shows that on the day in absence of the wife, the

 
Page 8 of 9

accused kissed the victim and opening her panty got bathed her. The
evidence of the victim clearly indicates that the accused and his wife treated
the victim who stayed in his house as their own child and the accused on the
day of occurrence also he kissed her and opening her panty got bathed her as
did other days. Accused's wife PW3 also corroborated that sometimes the
accused changed the cloth of the victim who is his elder brother's daughter
and helped her in bathing and even sometimes fed the child like his own
children. The evidence of the victim shows nothing abnormal in bathing her by
her own paternal uncle.The accused who was affectionate towards the victim
being his niece, out of love might have kissed and get bathed: her.who is only
7 years old. The victim herself stated that she did not “know why PW2 filed
the case. The acts of the accused shows no any_bad intention. The evidence
of the witnesses recorded by the prosecution particularly the evidence of the
victim does not reveal that the accused ‘attempted to cause of any sexual
offence under POCSO Act and as such the accused could not be held guilty for
the alleged offence u/s 18 of POGSO Act. Hence, accused Prakash Kurmi is
acquitted on benefit of doubt. The.accused is in hajot. Be set him at liberty

forthwith if not warranted in any.other case.

21. Judgement is.pronounced and delivered in open court under
the Seal and signature of this Court on the 30" day of July, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

 
Prosecution witnesses.

1. PWil1
2. PW2
3. PW3
4. PW 4
5. PW5
6. PW6
7. PW7
8. PW8
9. PW9
10.PW 10

Exhibits.

Ext. 1

Ext. 2

Ext. 3

Ext. 4

Ext. 5

Extin6

Ext. 7

Page 9 of 9

: Sumit Kullu.
: Salmi Topno.
: Aunty of the victim.
: Felesita Egress.
: The victim.
: Juhi Gogoi, Ld. Magistrate.
: Suresh Tanti.
: Paban Kumar Sut, I.O.
: SI Kanak Hazarika, I.O.
: Dr. Geetumoni Sonowal, M.O,

: FIR
> (164 Gr.P.C. statement of the victim.

: Order passed by Ld. Judicial Magistrate,

1* Class, Tezpur.

: sketch map
: Case Diary.
: Chargesheet.

: Medical Report.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

 
