1|Page

Present

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Md. A.U. Ahmed, AJS,
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 14/2016 (Special)
corresponding to GR Case No. 474/2016 &
Bakalia Police Station Case No. 43/2016

Under Sections 363 of IPC and 4 of the POCSO
Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Biki Deb

Name of informant/complainant:

Shri Binu Das

Son of Shri Umesh Das
Village: Natun Basti

PS: Bakalia

District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.

Name of the accused person facing trial:

Shri Biki Dev

Son of Shri Bishnu Dev
Railway Colony, Diphu

PS: Diphu

District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution
For the defence

Argument heard on

: Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
: Mr J. Paul
: 11.11.2019

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 18.11.2019
2|Page

JUDGMENT

1. It is a case of kidnapping and penetrative sexual
assault alleged to have been committed by the accused

person.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 03.06.2016, the
informant-Shri Binu Das lodged an ejahar with the O/C of
Bakalia Police Station stating inter alia that on 02.06.2016 at
about 9:00 AM his victim daughter aged 15 years was going
to Kunjak Athai High School to appear 9 standard
examination and she did not return home. When they started
searching her, they could learn that on the instigation of one
Subhas Das, Shri Biki Deb eloped the victim. On receipt of
the ejahar, O/C Bakalia Police Station registered a case vide
its Bakalia Police Station Case No. 43/2016 under sections
120 B/376 of IPC. On completion of investigation, I.O.
submitted the charge-sheet under sections 366-A/376 of IPC
and 4 of the POCSO Act.

3. On completion of appearance of the accused person,
copy was furnished to him and this case was committed to
the Court of the Sessions Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu as it
was sessions triable. Thereafter, this case was transferred to
this Court for disposal. On perusal of the case record along
with case diary and after hearing learned lawyers of both
sides, I found sufficient grounds for presuming that the
accused person committed the offences under sections 363
of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, the charges
were framed. The particular of the offences charged was
duly read over and explained to the accused person to which

he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
3|Page

4.

Prosecution has examined as many as 10 (Ten)

witnesses including the informant and the alleged victim.

Statement of the accused person was recorded under section

313 of Cr.P.C. Defence has examined none. Plea of defence

is of total denial.

(i)

(ii)

Points for determinations are:

Whether the accused person on 02.6.2016 at about
10:30 AM at Kunjok Athoi under Bakalia Police
Station kidnapped the victim aged about 15 years out
of her lawful guardianship and that he thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 363
of IPC?

Whether the accused person on the same day and
subsequent days at various places caused penetrative
sexual assault to the victim aged about 15 years and
thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 4 of the POCSO Act?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through verbal arguments

advanced by the learned counsels of both sides as well as

evidence on record. At the very outset, the learned counsel

appearing on behalf of the accused person has contended

that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case

against the accused person. On the other hand, the learned

Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the aforesaid

submission has submitted that the prosecution has

succeeded in establishing its case against the accused

person beyond all reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the
4|Page

rival submissions, it would be appropriate to give a glance at

evidence record.

7. PW-1 is Shri Binu Das who has deposed that he is the
informant of this case and he knows the accused person.
The victim is his daughter. On the day of occurrence, he
went outside for working. At about 1 PM a person told him
that his daughter did not return home from school. Although
he searched his daughter, but did not find her. Thereafter, a
boy of their village informed him that a boy who was staying
in the house of Subhas, a resident of their village, eloped his
daughter. Later, he could know the name of the boy as Biki
Dev. Then he lodged the ejahar at the police station. Ext.1 is
the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his signature. At the time of
occurrence, the victim was about 15 years old. After
three/four days of the occurrence, police informed them
about the fact of recovery of the victim and called them to
the police station. Accordingly, he went to the police station
and he saw the victim and the accused there. On being
asked by him, the victim did not say about the whereabouts

of the accused.

8. PW-2 is the victim who has deposed that the informant
is her father. She knows the accused person. The incident
took place about three years back. At the time of occurrence,
she was 16 years old. On the day of occurrence, she went to
the school for appearing examination. When examination
was over, she came out of the school and saw the accused
waiting nearby the school with a vehicle. As the accused
asked her to get into the vehicle, she got into it. After going
some distance, the accused took her to the house of his
friend. At that time, it was 3:00 PM. He kept her there in
that night. During her stay there, the accused forcefully
5|Page

made sexual intercourse with her. Thereafter, the accused
took her to the house of his aunt (Pehi) and stayed one night
there. On that night also, the accused made sexual
intercourse with her. Then the accused took her to his own
house and she stayed there for two days. During her stay in
the house of the accused, he made sexual intercourse with
her. The accused stayed in the house of one Subhas. He
(Subhas) brought them to Bakalia Police Station. Police got
her medically examined and her statement recorded in the
Court. Ext.2 is her statement and Ext.2(1), 2(2) and 2(3) is

her signatures.

9. PW-3 is Smti Rupali Das who has stated in evidence
that she knows the accused person. The informant is her
husband. At the time of occurrence, the age of the victim
was 16 years. The occurrence took place three years ago.
On the day of occurrence in the morning hours, she went out
for doing wage work. The victim went to appear
examination. At about 3:00 PM, she came back home and
did not find her daughter and she started searching her.
Thereafter, the friends of the victim informed her that the
accused took the victim in a red vehicle. Getting this
information, she informed her husband. The informant also
went out for doing wage work. Although she searched her
daughter in various places, she did not find her. After six
days of the occurrence, police called them to the police
station. Her informant-husband went to the police station.
After returning from police station, her husband told her that
the accused and the victim were in the police station. At the

time of occurrence, the victim was 15 years six months old.

10. | PW-4 is Shri Uttam Chandra Das who has deposed that

he knows the informant and the victim. After apprehension
6|Page

of the accused, he saw him (accused) at the police station.
This incident took place three years ago. On the day of
occurrence in the afternoon hours, the informant told him
that his daughter went to school for appearing examination
and did not return. He advised the informant to go to the
police station. At the time of occurrence, he was VDP
Secretary. The informant told him that the friends of the
victim informed him (informant) that the accused took the
victim in a red vehicle. Thereafter, the informant and he
informed the matter at the police station. After six days of
the occurrence, the police recovered the victim along with
the accused and brought them to the police station and
thereafter informed them. Getting the said information, he,
the informant and many other people went to the police
station. The police officer interrogated the victim in presence
of him and the victim told that the accused forcibly took her
in a car. When the police took the victim for medical
examination and then to the Court, he also accompanied

police.

11. | PW-5 is Shri Tara Prasad Das who has stated in his
evidence that he knows the informant, the victim and the
accused. The incident took place in the year 2015/16. On the
day of occurrence, he heard that a boy who was staying at
the house of Subhas Das eloped the victim while she was
going to the school. Later on, police came to their village and
police asked him as to whether he knew the victim. In reply,
he told that he had known the victim. He also heard that
after six/seven days of the occurrence, the victim was
recovered. At the time of occurrence, the victim was 14/15

years.
7|Page

12. | PW-6 is Shri Mantu Das who has stated that he knows
the informant, the victim and the accused person. The
occurrence took place about three years ago. On the day of
occurrence, he heard that the daughter of the informant got
missing. Police came to the village and asked him as to
whether he knew the informant and the victim. In his reply,
he told that he knew them. He heard that after 6/7 days of
the occurrence, police recovered the victim. At the time of
occurrence, the age of the victim girl was approximately 14,

15 or 16 years.

13. | PW-7 is Smti Parvati Das who has deposed that she
knows the informant, the victim and the accused person.
The occurrence took place about three years back. Prior to
the occurrence, the accused came to their house at the time
of “Sharat” Puja. After the occurrence, she heard that one
Biki Das who used to come to the house of the victim eloped
her away. After seven days of the occurrence, she came to

know that police recovered the victim.

14. | PW-8 is Dr Kaban Teronpi who told that on 09.6.2016
when she was posted at Diphu Civil Hospital as SDM &
HO,he examined Smti. Supriya Das in connection with
Bakalia PS Case No.43 of 2016 and found the following: No
external injury on her body, no injury in labia mojora, labia
minora and fourchette. Hymen absence, vaginal suffix no
hair. Dental examination reported as 7/7 7/7 and 7/7 7/7.
On vaginal swab- spermatozoa not detected, radiological X-
ray on wrist joint, R-2893 not fused, X-ray on elbow joint
R2894 fused, X-ray on shoulder joint R2895 epiphysis of
upper end of humereus fused and X-ray elliacrest R 2896 not

fused. The age of the victim was below 18, between 16 to
8|Page

17 years. Hymen not intact. Ext.3 is the medical report and
Ext.3(1), 3(2) and 3(3) are her signatures.

15. | PW-9 is Hirolal Das who stated that he knows the
informant and the accused person, but does not know the
victim. As he did not listen by his ear, he did not hear about

the incident.

16. | PW-10 is the investigating officer who has stated in his
deposition that on 03.06.2016 he was working as officer-in-
charge at Bakalia Police Station. On that day one Binu Das
came to the Police Station and lodged a written ejahar
stating inter alia that on 02.06.2016 at 9:00 AM his victim
daughter having age of 15 years went to Kunjak Athai High
School for appearing examination but she did not come
home back. During search it was learnt that the accused
took away his victim daughter. On receipt of the written
ejahar he registered a criminal case vide Bakalia Police
Station Case No. 43/2016 under sections 120B/366A of the
IPC against the accused person and took the case in his file.
Ext.1 is the said ejahar. Thereafter he went to the place of
occurrence and examined the witnesses found there and
drew the sketch map of the PO. On 08.06.2016 he came to
know that the accused took the victim to the house of his
aunt situated at Sikari Pathar. On the way to Sikari Pathar he
found the victim with the accused and thereafter he took
both of them to the Police Station. He got the victim
medically examined and her statement recorded in the court.
On completion of the investigation he submitted the charge
sheet under sections 366 A/376 of the IPC/4 of the POCSO
Act. Ext.5 is the charge sheet.
9|Page

17. For attracting sections 363 IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act,
the victim needs to be below 18 years. The POCSO Act fully
relates to the child which is defined under section 2(d) of the
Act. A person who is below 18 years is called child. PW-1
and PW-3 are the parents of the victim marked as PW-2 who
have categorically stated that at the time of occurrence, the
victim was 15 years old. Evidence of PW-5 and PW-6 shows
that at the time of occurrence, the victim was 14 to 16 years
old. According to the victim, at the time of occurrence she
was 16 years. Ext-3 is medical report of the victim which has
been not challenged by the defence. According to Ext-3, on
09.06.2016 the victim was 16/17 years old. PW-10 is the
investigating officer whose evidence is silent that he seized
any age proof document. It is evident that the victim was
school going child at the time of occurrence. Normally a
school going child would not be more than 16 years. The
parents are considered to be best person who can say real
age of their child. There is nothing on record to show that as
why they deposed false so far age of the victim is concerned.
Taking all aspects I am convinced to hold that at the time of

occurrence, the victim was below 18 years.

18. The investigating officer marked PW-10 has clearly
stated in his evidence that while he was going to Sikari
Pathar on the way he found the victim with the accused and
there from he brought both of them to Police Station. The
evidence of the victim also clearly shows that she along with
the accused person was brought to Police Station by one
Subhash while the accused took her to his house. The
evidence of the victim is free from contradiction. The
prosecution has not examined any person who saw the
accused person taking the victim. From the evidence of the

victim it is reflected that there was love affair between the
10|Page

accused and the victim and that the accused took away the
victim on her sweet will. Now I am convinced that it was the

accused who took away the victim.

19. So far as penetrative sexual assault is concerned
inflicted upon the victim, the evidence of the victim and
medical evidence are very much vital. The penetrative sexual
assault is normally done in lone place. From evidence of the
victim shows that the accused first took her to the house of
his friend wherein the accused made sexual intercourse with
her. They stayed there for two days. There after she was
taken to the house of his aunt where they halted one night.
He also made sexual intercourse with her there also. There
after again she was taken to his house where she stayed for
two days and during her stay there he further made sexual
intercourse. From her evidence it appears that the accused
made sexual intercourse with the victim for 4/5 times. Ext-2
is the statement of the victim recorded under section 164 of
the CrPC where she stated clearly that the accused took the
victim to the house of his friend and thereafter to the house
of his aunt and that the accused made sexual intercourse
with the victim.

20. — Ext-3 is the medical report. PW-8 is the medical officer
who examined the victim. Ext-3 shows that on examination
of the victim hymen was found absence and vagina capable
of being admitting one finger. No bleeding and discharge
was found. Basing of the evidence of the victim girl coupled
with the medical evidence I have to come to conclusion that

the victim was subjected to penetrative sexual assault.

21. ‘There is a evidence on record showing that the victim

was subjected to penetrative sexual assault for more than 1
11|Page

(One) times. The section 5 of the POCSO Act relates to the
aggravated sexual assault which is punishable under section
6 of the POCSO Act. Section 3 of the POCSO Act relates to
penetrative sexual assault punishable under section 4 of the
POCSO Act. The section 4 of the POCSO Act will serve the
purpose so far as this case is concerned. Hence I would like

to refrain from altering the sections already charged.

22. | In commission of the offence under sections 363 of the
IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act, consent of the victim is totally
immaterial. The very purpose of the enactment of the
POCSO Act is brought into force in order to protecting the
child to be exploited from sexual assault and to keeping
them in good health.

ORDER

 

23. In the result, I find the accused Sri Biki Dev guilty
under sections 363 of the IPC/4 of the POCSO Act and

accordingly he is convicted.

24. On the point of sentence, the accused person is heard
and to that effect his statement is recorded. Heard the
learned lawyers of the both sides. It has been submitted by
the learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the accused
person that accused is a poor person and only earning
member of his family. He has further submitted that there is
a no evidence on record showing that the accused was
earlier convicted by the Court of Law. Accused is a just
grown young person. Considering fact of the case I am of
the opinion that the accused person deserves to be punish
leniently. But the section 4 of the POCSO Act is very much
harsh. Taking all aspects into consideration the accused Sri

Biki Dev is hereby ordered to suffer rigorous imprisonment of
12|Page

6 (Six) months and to pay a fine of Rs. 500/- i/d SI for 1
(One) months for the section 363 of the IPC and rigorous
imprisonment of 7 (Seven) years and to pay a fine of Rs.
1000/- i/d SI for 2 (Two) months for the section 4 of the
POCSO Act. Both sentences will run concurrently. Let
certified copies of the Judgment and Order be supplied to
the accused person at free of cost. Also send a copy of the
Judgment to the District Magistrate, Diphu, Karbi Anglong in
terms of the section 365 of the CrPC.

25. Accordingly this case is disposed on contest.

26. Given under hand and seal of this court today, the 18"
day of November, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and corrected

by me.
(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge, Special Judge,

Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
13|Page

APPENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Sri Binu Das

PW2- Smti Supriya Das
PW3- Smti Rupali Das

PW4- Sri Uttam Chandra Das
PW5- Sri Tara Prasad Das
PW6- Sri Montu Das

PW7- Smti Pravoti Das

PW8- Dr. Kaban Teronpi
PW9- Sri Hirolal Das

PW10- Md. Abdul Zelil

Defence Witnesses: Nil
Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Statement of the victim
Ext.3- Medical Report

Ext.4- Sketch Map of the PO
Ext.5- Charge sheet

Defence Exhibited: Nil

Special Judge,
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam.
