CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 50/15

Informant: |§Smti. Bohagi Ghatowar,
D/o- Sri Kanta Ghatowar,
R/o- No. 108 Khowang Grant,
PS- Moran,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Ajay Singh Ghatowar,
S/o- Sri Golap Singh Ghatowar,
R/o- No. 108 Khowang Grant,
PS- Moran,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri KK Gogoi, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 50/15
G.R. Case No. 1805/15

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Ajay Singh Ghatowar

Charges: Under Section 4 of POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 23-11-15, 30-01-16, 31-03-16, 07-12-16 and 05-01-18.
Date of argument : 31-03-18.
Date of Judgment —_: 12-04-18.

1)

2)

3)

JUDGMENT

A brief account of this case is that on 01-07-15, while the minor victim ‘xX’
was alone at home with her old and aged father, Sri Ajay Singh Ghatowar
(hereinafter the accused) entered into the victim’s house and gagged her and
committed rape on her. An ejahar regarding this incident was lodged by the
victim's elder sister Smti. Bohagi Ghatowar when she learnt that the victim
was contemplating to commit suicide. The informant learnt about the incident
on 05-07-15 and lodged an ejahar with the police at Moran Police Station
which was registered as Moran PS Case No. 220/15 under Section 4 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (the POCSO Act in
short).

The investigating officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation. He
recorded the statement of the victim and forwarded her for medical
examination. He also forwarded her to the Magistrate for recording her
statement. He went to the place of occurrence, prepared the Sketch-Map and
recorded the statements of the witnesses. On finding prima facie materials,
he submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused under Section 4 of POCSO
Act.

On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and a formal charge

under Section 4 of the POCSO Act was framed, read over and explained to
4)

)

6)

7)

8)

the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, prosecution adduced the evidence of seven
witnesses including the medical officer (MO in short) and the IO, whereas the
accused did not tender any evidence in defence. He cross-examined the
witnesses in extenso to refute the charges.
SUBMISSIONS:

The learned Public Prosecutor Smti. Runumi Devi and learned Addl. Public
Prosecutor Mrs. Sehnaz Akhtar submitted that this case has been proved
beyond reasonable doubt and stringent punishment ought to be inflicted on
the accused. The learned defence counsel emphasized in his argument that
the accused deserves acquittal, because this case is replete with
contradictions.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION:
On the backdrop of the rival proponements urged at the bar, the following
points are apposite for proper adjudication of this case:

i. Whether on 06-07-15, at Khowang Ghat, the accused
committed penetrative sexual assault upon the minor
victim X?
DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

To decide the case in its right perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence:
Smti. Bohagi Ghatowar testified as PW-1 that the accused is her relative and
he resides near her house. The victim X is her younger sister. She further
testified that she resides in Dibrugarh as she works in Dibrugarh. Her
younger sister and her parent reside in the village. The incident took place on
01-07-15. At that time, she was at Dibrugarh as she works in Dibrugarh. On
05-07-15, her younger sister called her over phone and requested her to visit
her. Accordingly, she went to her house and her younger sister who was in
tears, informed her that 01-07-15, in the absence of their father in the house,
the accused came and committed rape on her. The neighbourers informed
her that her younger sister attempted to commit suicide after the alleged
incident. On the following day, she took her sister to Moran Police Station and
lodged an ejahar regarding the incident. An ejahar was written by a person
whose name is not known to her. At present, her sister is 15 years of age.

Her sister was taken to the hospital for medical examination and she
9)

accompanied her sister. Her sister was also produced before the Magistrate
for recording her statement.

In her cross-examination, she testified that there is no signature on the FIR.
She did not know what was written on the FIR. She further testified in her
cross-examination that her house is situated by the side of the National
Highway and the land is registered in her father’s name. The accused
person's house is also constructed over their land. The accused person along
with his family has been residing on their land for a considerable period of
time. The accused does not pay rent for the land. Besides the house, the
accused also has a tea garden planted over their (PW-1's) land. PW-1 further
testified in her cross-examination that their economic condition is not good,
as most of their landed property is being occupied by the accused. Her father
does not take care of the property as he is unable to work. The accused
person behaves like the owner of the land. Their landed property is situated
by the side of the national highway and the property is highly valuable.
Earlier, some other people also wanted to purchase their landed property, but
the accused and his family members did not allow those people to purchase
their land. She maintains her family with her income as domestic help. She
denied the suggestion that she foisted a case against the accused to wreck
vengeance to facilitate the eviction of the accused from their land. She
further testified that there are other residences near her house. she denied
the suggestion that she omitted to state before the police that on 05-05-15,
her younger sister called her over phone requesting her to visit her and when
she went to home, her younger sister who was in tears, informed her that on
01-07-15, in the absence of their father, the accused came to their house and
committed rape on her. She also denied that she omitted to state before the
police that the neighbours informed her that her younger sister attempted to
commit suicide after the incident. The remaining part of her cross-

examination is denial of suggestions by the prosecution.

10) The victim X testified as PW-2 that the accused is related to her. The alleged

incident took place on 01-07-15. On the day of the incident, at about 12:30
pm, she was alone in the house and her father went out for work. At that
time, her elder sister was at Banipur in Dibrugarh. At the time of the incident,
she went out to see whether any cow had entered into their campus and

thereafter, she entered into her room. At that time, she did not realize that
the accused was inside the house. The accused gagged her with a dupatta
from behind and laid her down on the bed. The accused undressed her and
when she tried to scream, he gagged her with the dupatta and so she could
not scream. The accused removed the garments from the lower part of the
body and committed rape on her. At the time of the incident, he also tied her
hands with the same dupatta with which he gagged her. After committing
rape, the accused untied her hands and left her house. Thereafter, she went
to the accused person's house situated near her house and informed his
younger sister Hunmoni Ghatowar about the incident. Hunmoni replied that
she will inform her mother about the incident. When the accused person’s
mother returned from work, she informed her about the incident and the
accused person's mother asked her to visit her and stay overnight.

11) PW-2 further testified that she also informed the accused person’s elder sister
about the incident and his elder sister asked her to inform her if her
menstrual period would stop and she suggested that she would provide her
medicine in this case. The accused person’s family members did not accept
her version of the incident keenly. She informed her farther about the
incident, but her father could not take any action, because he was an old and
aged person with impaired vision. On the day of the incident, she stayed
inside the house, as she was totally shaken and mentally depressed. On the
next day of the incident, she called her elder sister Bohagi Ghatowar who
used to stay at Dibrugarh. When her sister arrived, she narrated the incident
to her sister and her sister informed her that she would arrange a meeting,
but the meeting was not held. On the following day, she along with her sister
Bohagi went to the police station and narrated the incident to police. The
police recorded her statement and brought her to the hospital for medical
examination. She was also forwarded to the Magistrate for recording her
statement. Ext. 1 is her statement recorded by the Magistrate wherein Ext.
1(1) upto Ext. 1(3) are her signatures.

12)In her cross-examination, she testified that her house is adjacent to other
houses within the same campus and there is no fencing between the houses.
The accused as well as his family members are occupying their land by
erecting a residential house and by planting a tea garden. She denied that
she omitted to state before the police that she called her elder sister over

phone. She denied that she omitted to state before the police that on the day
of the occurrence, she stayed inside her house as she was mentally
depressed and totally shaken. She admitted that on the day of the incident,
her uncle (peha) Makhan Murmur @ Durga died, but denied the suggestion
that the accused was busy with the cremation which was going on from
10:00 am till the evening. She admitted in her cross-examination that they
asked the accused as well as his family members to vacate their land and
hand over the same to their father, but the accused and his family members
refused. She also testified in her cross-examination that she did not hand
over the dupatta to the police which was alleged to have been used by the
accused at the time of occurrence. The remaining part of her cross-
examination is denial of suggestions by the learned defence counsel, which
will be discussed at the appropriate stage.

13)Smti. Rekha Boraik testified as PW-3 that the victim and the accused are
known to her. On 04-07-15, at about 3:00 pm, when she was returning to her
house from the accused person’s house, she met the victim X on the way
who called her to her house. She then went inside the victim’s house and the
victim informed her that the accused committed rape on her on 01-07-15
when she was alone at home during the daytime. She was in tears while she
narrated the incident. PW-3 further testified that the victim also informed her
that on 01-07-15, she went to the accused person’s house and narrated the
incident to his younger sister, but his younger sister did not respond. PW-3
further testified that on the same day, she informed the incident to the
victim's elder sister Bohagi Ghatowar who resides in Banipur at Dibrugarh. On
05-07-15, Bohagi Ghatowar came and asked the victim about the incident.
The victim was in a depressed condition. On the next day, she took the victim
to the police station and lodged the ejahar. The police recorded her
statement.

14)In her cross-examination, she denied that she omitted to state before the
police that the victim X narrated the incident to her. She also denied that she
omitted to state under Section 161 CrPC that on the day of the incident,
when the victim narrated the incident to her, she was returning to her house
and on the way, the victim X saw her from her house and called her to her
house and then she went inside the victim’s house. She also denied the
suggestion that she omitted to state before the police that the victim

informed her about the incident on 01-07-15 and that she went to the
accused person's house and narrated the incident to the accused person's
younger sister Hunmoni Ghatowar. She also denied the suggestion that she
omitted to state before the police that on 04-07-15, she informed about the
incident to the victim's elder sister Bohagi Ghatowar who resides in Banipur at
Dibrugarh. The remaining part of her cross-examination is denial of
suggestions by the defence to the witness. This part of the cross-examination
is not noteworthy.

15) Sri Rengtu Tanti testified as PW-4 that the accused and the victim are related
to him. The incident took place about six months ago. He heard from the
local villagers that the accused committed rape on the victim in her house.
The victim resides in her house along with her father and her elder sister
Bohagi Ghatowar resides at Banipur at Dibrugarh to pursue her work.

16)In his cross-examination, he stated that he did not witness the incident. On
the day of the incident, the relative of the accused named Durga Murmur @
Magan died and after his death, the accused and he went to the house of
Durga Murmur and the cremation rites continued from the morning till the
evening on that day. He returned home from the cremation at about 11:00
am and while he was present in the cremation ground, the accused was also
present there.

17)Smti. Rumila Tanti testified as PW-5 that the accused and the victim are
known to her. The incident took place in the month of July, 2015. The victim
resides in her village with her old father and her elder sister resides at
Dibrugarh. She heard from her mother-in-law Rekha Boraik that the accused
committed rape on the victim. Her mother-in-law went to the police station
along with the relative of the victim. She learnt about the incident in the
police station from her mother.

18)In her cross-examination, she testified that she had no personal knowledge
about the incident.

19)The MO Dr. Mohsina Ahmed testified as PW-6 that on 06-07-15, she was
serving as GDMO in the Department of Forensic Medicine at Assam Medical
College & Hospital at Dibrugarh. On that day, the examined the victim on
police requisition in connection with this case. On examination, she found the
following:

On genital examination: Genital organs were healthy. Vulva is healthy.

Hymen: One old tear at 3 O’ clock position. Vagina and cervix is healthy.
Uterus not palpable per abdomen. No evidence of recent injury on her
body or her private parts. Vaginal smears were taken from posterior fornix
in and around the cervix result of which does not show any spermatozoa.
Radiological finding:
(1) X-ray elbow joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union are completed;
(2) X-ray wrist joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union is not completed.
(3) X-ray of shoulder joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union is not
completed.
(4) X-ray of pelvis (AP view) Iliac crest not united.
20) On the basis of Physical examination, Radiological & Laboratory Investigation
done on the victim X, the doctor was of the opinion that:
i. |The actual age of the victim girl is above 14 years and below
16 years;
ii. There is no evidence of recent sexual intercourse on her
person;
iii. | There is no evidence of recent injury on her body or private
parts.
21)The MO further testified that one old tear at 3 O’ clock position was found in
genital examination column 20(c) might be due to sexual intercourse or due
to other physical activities, i.e., by cycling, swimming. The injury was not
found within 72 hours prior to examination. Ext. 2 is the Medico-legal Report
wherein Ext. 2(1) to Ext. 2(3) are her signatures.
22)In cross-examination, the MO testified when the girl was taken for
examination, she did not state that after the incident, she was mentally
broken and she tried to commit suicide. The victim stated before the MO that
she informed the matter to the mother of the said boy and that she did not
inform the MO that she told about the incident to other person also.
23)The IO SI Pratap Borgohain testified as PW-7 that on 06-07-15, he was
posted at Moran Police Station as Second Officer. On that day, he received an
FIR from Bohagi Ghatowar and he registered the same as Moran PS Case No.
220/15 under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and he embarked upon the
investigation. Ext. 3 is the FIR and Ext. 3(1) is his signature. He recorded the
statement of Bohagi Ghatowar and the victim in the police station. The victim
was sent to Moran PHC for examination and thereafter, she was forwarded to

the Assam Medical College & Hospital at Dibrugarh. The he produced the
victim before the Chairperson of CWC and forwarded her to the Court for
recording her statement. Thereafter, he went to the place of occurrence and
recorded the statements of witnesses. He prepared a Sketch-Map of the place
of occurrence. Ext. 4 is the Sketch-Map and Ext. 4(1) is his signature. On the
next day, the accused was arrested and forwarded to the Court. He also
collected the Medico-legal Report and the statement of the victim recorded
under Section 164 CrPC. On finding prima facie materials, he submitted
Charge-Sheet against the accused under Section 4 of the POCSO Act. Ext. 5
is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 5(1) is his signature.

24) The contradictions reflected through the cross-examination of the IO is that
the incident took place on 01-07-15 while the FIR was lodged on 06-07-15.
He did not seize any garment or apparels from the victim. He did not obtain
any age proof certificate during investigation. The victim did not mention in
her statement under Section 161 CrPC that she intended to commit suicide.
The complainant Bohagi Ghatowar did not mention in her statement under
Section 161 CrPC that on 05-07-15, her younger sister called her over phone.
Rekha Ghatowar did not mention in her statement under Section 161 CrPC
that the victim X told her after the incident that she went to the accused
person’s house and informed his sister about the incident. Rekha Boraik also
did not mention in her statement that the victim told her that on 04-07-15,
she informed her elder sister Bohagi Ghatowar about the incident. Rekha
Boraik has also did not mention in her statement under Section 161 CrPC that
she informed about the incident to Bohagi Ghatowar over phone.

ANALYSIS OF EVIDENCE:

25)The testimony of the victim is consistent with her statement before the
Magistrate. The delay in lodging the FIR casts a shadow of doubt over the
veracity of the victim’s evidence. According to her, the incident took place on
01-07-15 and the ejahar was lodged on 06-07-15. If her sister Bohagi
Ghatowar had a phone and if she called her sister on a later date and
informed her about the incident on 05-07-15, then what prevented the victim
to call her sister on an earlier date and inform her about the incident. Another
discrepancy in the evidence is the non-examination of the victim’s father. The
victim's father was the best person who could have testified that when he
was absent from his house, taking the advantage of his absence, the accused

entered into his house. This is a serious offence and it has to be proved
10

beyond reasonable doubt. If the victim’s father was old, then how he goes
out for work and if her father was fit enough to go out for work, then what
prevented the IO from recording the statement of the victim's father.

26) Moreover, the conduct of the victim after the incident also casts a shadow of
doubt over the veracity of her evidence. It is not that the victim was hesitant
to inform about the incident of rape to any other person apart from her sister.
Immediately after the incident, the victim went to the accused person’s house
and informed his younger sister and his sister-in-law about the incident.
Again, she informed about the incident to another woman Rekha Boraik on
04-07-15. Doubt creeps into one’s mind as to why the victim did not inform
her own sister about the incident till 05-07-15. If the victim was not hesitant
to inform the accused person's sister, sister-in-law and PW-3 about the
incident, then what prevented her from informing her own sister about the
incident immediately after the incident? Although the statement of the victim
under Section 164 CrPC is consistent to her testimony, yet her evidence does
not inspire confidence due to her own conduct. Further, the cross-
examination of the IO depicts that the victim omitted to state under Section
161 CrPC that she attempted to commit suicide nor did her sister state that
the victim called her over phone on 05-07-15. Rekha Boraik also omitted to
state before the IO that she informed Bohagi Ghatowar about the incident.
Rekha Boraik also omitted to mention the most important fact that on 04-07-
15, the victim informed her about the incident and thereafter, she informed
the victim’s elder sister about the incident over phone. The testimony of
Bohagi Ghatowar and Rekha Ghatowar has been contradicted by the IO that
Rakha informed Bohagi over phone about the alleged incident. Further,
Bohagi was informed about the incident and this impelled her to lodge the
ejahar with the police. Another contradiction elicited through the cross-
examination of Rekha Boraik is that she omitted to state before the IO that
the victim told her that after the incident, she went to the accused person's
house and informed his elder sister about the incident. The evidence of
Rekha Boraik is replete with contradictions and this casts a shadow of doubt
over the veracity of her evidence.

27) The evidence of the informant PW-1 depicts that the neighbourers informed
her that her younger sister tried to commit suicide after the incident. This

depicts that the neighbourers already learnt about the incident of rape. The
11

evidence of the victim also depicts that she called her elder sister on the next
day of the incident and narrated the incident to her elder sister. Her elder
sister Bohagi assured her that she would arrange a meeting in the village, but
the meeting was not held. Moreover, the evidence depicts that the victim was
not ashamed of the fact that the neighbours learnt about the incident. On the
contrary, she was wary of the fact that her elder sister arranged a meeting
which finally did not take place. So the delay and hesitation to lodge the FIR
remained unexplained. Mover, the victim stated that the ejahar was lodged
on the next day, while her elder sister testified as PW-1 that she was
informed about the incident on 05-07-15. PW-1 and PW-2 stated that the
incident took place on 01-07-15. The evidence of Rekha Boraik also depicts
that the incident took place on 01-07-15 and the victim informed her about
the incident on 4" and her sister Bohagi was informed about the incident on
5" In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that there are too
many contradictions to fasten the accused person with the guilt of rape.

28) The victim also testified that her father is an elderly person and he is visually
impaired, while the same victim testified that her father went out for work on
the day of the incident. The victim insisted that she informed her father about
the incident.

29) This case is indeed replete with contradictions and discrepancies. If the victim
informed her father about the incident, the why her father was not
summoned as a witness in this case. Moreover, if the statement of the victim
remains self contradictory, because she stated that her father went ouf for
work and thereafter, the incident took place when she was alone at home.
The opinion of the MO depicts that no injuries were found up to 72 hours
from the time when the victim was brought for examination and prior to that.
There was no evidence of recent sexual intercourse on her person. However,
there was an old tear at 3 O’ clock position found on genital examination
which may be due to sexual intercourse or due to other physical activities by
cycling, swimming, etc.

30)The evidence of the doctor also does not confirm sexual assault on the
victim. The tear detected o her hymen is an old tear and there was no
evidence of recent sexual intercourse on her person. There was also no
evidence of recent injury on her body or private parts.

31) The victim's testimony as PW-2 depicts that she struggled with the accused
12

and he tied her and forcefully committed rape on her. The absence of forceful
sexual intercourse belies her evidence. The old tear on her hymen does not
affirm that she was sexually assaulted by the accused on 01-07-15.

32) Moreover, her evidence that the accused tied her hands with the dupatta and
gagged her with the same dupatta while committing rape is not creditworthy.

33)Considering the fact that the case is replete with contradictions and
considering the conduct of the victim after the incident, it is held that the
victim's evidence does not inspire confidence. The prosecution failed to prove
that the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim.
Thereby, the accused is acquitted from the charges under Section 4 of the
POCSO Act on benefit of doubt and is set at liberty forthwith.

34)I have carefully considered whether the victim deserves compensation.
Considering the entire case record and the documents, this case is not
referred for compensation under the Victim’s Compensation Scheme, 2012.

35) The cross-examination of PW-1 and 2 depicts that there is an acrimonious
relationship between the accused and the victim’s family members, because
the accused person has been occupying their land and have erected a house
on their land belonging to the victim’s family. This fact is also taken into
consideration.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 12" day of
April, 2018.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
13

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 Smt. Bohagi Ghatowar;
2. PW-2 The victim ‘xX’;
3. PW-3 Smti. Rekha Boraik;
4. PW-4 Sri Rengtu Tanti;
5. PW-5 Smti. Rumila Tanti;
6. PW-6 Dr. Mohsina Ahmed; and
7. PW-7 SI Pratap Borgohain.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Medico-legal Report;
3. Ext. 3 Ejahar;
4. Ext. 4 Sketch-Map; and
5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
