Page 1 of 14

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE DARRANG,MANGALDAI.

Spl.(POCSO) Case No.12 of 2016
(U/S :376 I.P.C. R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act).

State
Versus

lyasin Ali

S/O: Lt. Dudu Miya Sk
Vill: No.4 Sialmari

PS: dalgaon,Dist-Darrang

-Accused.

PRESENT: Sri P.Saikia,A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge.
Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPERANCE:

For the Prosecution : Sri PSarma, P.P.,Mangaldai
AND

For the accused : Sri Dharma Baruah,Advocate.

Evidence recorded on :12/01/17,15/03/17,19/05/17,
07/07/2017 and 04/08/2017.

Argument heard on: 07/11/2017

Judgment delivered on: 21/11/2017.
Page 2 of 14

UDGMENT.

1. Briefly stated,the prosecution case is that on 02/07/2016 the
prosecutrix( real name is withheld hereinafter referred to as the
prosecutrix) aged 15 years lodged a complaint case before the learned
Chief Judicial Magistrate, Darrang, Mangaldai alleging that she is a
student of class X of Sialmari High School and the accused lyasin Ali who
resides adjacent to their house is known to her in that way the accused
is acquainted with her since one year ago from the date of occurrence
i.e. 01/06/16. The accused lyasin Ali told her that she loved her and that
on pretext the accused asked her to meet him alone and used to talk to
her by meeting her on her way to School. About two months ago i.e. on
01/06/16 the accused with a promise to marry her in absence of any
family members of her house came to her house and committed sexual
intercourse with her. Though she initially refused to submit herself but
the accused on the false assurance of marrying her in the name of god
committed sexual intercourse with her. As a result of sexual intercourse
she suffered pain which came to the notice of her mother and on being
asked about her such condition she narrated about the incident. In this
regard, her mother called a village meeting with elderly persons on
01/06/2016. In that meeting the family members of the accused who
were present gave assurance to solemnise her marriage with the
accused after the Idd festival. Later on the prosecutrix had come to
know that the accused was going to marry an another girl even after
committing sexual intercourse with her on the assurance of marrying

her.

2. On receipt of the complaint the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate
forwarded the same to the O/C, Dalgaon Police Station to register a a
case and to investigate and submit report in final form. On receipt of the
complaint with direction of the learned Chief Judicial magistrate,
Darrang,Mangaldai the Officer In-charge registered a case vide Dalgaon
Page 3 of 14

PS. case No.503/16 U/S 376(2)(i)/212/420 I.P.C. read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act and endorsed the case for investigation to S.I. Abdul Mazid.
In course of investigation the 1.0. visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statement of the witnesses U/S 161 Cr.P.C. including the
victim(prosecutrix) and got her statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
before the Magistrate. The 1.0. also sent the victim for medical
examination and obtained her medical examination report. The 1.0.
prepared a sketch map of the place of occurrence , arrested the
accused. On completion of the investigation the I.0. laid a report U/S
173 Cr.P.C. for the offence U/S 448/376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 4 of
the POCSO Act against the accused lyasin Ali to face trial.

. On receipt of the charge sheet with all relevant police papers a
special(POCSO) case vide Special No.12(POCSO) of 2016 was registered.
After due appearance of the accused copies of the Police papers
furnished U/S 173 Cr.P.C. to the accused.

Thereupon, a close scrutiny and materials on the case record a prima-
facie case was made out to frame charge against the accused lyasin Ali
U/S 376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. Accordingly, formal
charges thereunder were framed against the accused and the charge so
framed on being read over and explained to the accused to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial.

. In course of trial the prosecution has tendered evidence of 5(five)

witnesses in all and relied on some documents available on record.

. On closure of the prosecution evidence the accused was examined U/S
313 Cr.P.C.. He has taken a plea of complete denial and declined to
adduce evidence for his defence.

. Situated thus, the point for determination in the present case at hand is
set up and framed as follows:
.

Page 4 of 14

(i)Whether the accused two months prior to 2/07/16 at No.4 Sialmari
under Dalgaon Police Station forcefully committed rape on Miss Mursida
Begum aged 15 years promising to marry her as a result of which she
sustained injury on her private part, as alleged U/S 376 I.P.C. R/W
Section 4 of POCSO Act ?

| have heard argument advanced by the learned counsel of both the
sides and also have evaluated evidence on record in its entirety.

DISCUSSION, DECISOON AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

The prosecutrix is examined as PW1. Her evidence is that about 6
months ago while she was alone at home at around 10 a.m. she was
studying and at that time the accused came and grabbed her. Then he
put her on the ground, removed her cloth and forcefully committed
sexual intercourse with her. At that time one Malencha Begum arrived
and the accused lyasin Ali went away. She narrated the fact to her
mother and her mother gave a village ‘bichar' but the accused did not
attend the same. Hence, she filed a complaint before the court which
was forwarded to the Police Station. Police produced her before the
Magistrate and got her statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. She has
proved and marked the FIR as Ext.1, wherein Ext.1(1) to 1(4) are her
signatures. Ext.2 is her statement 164 Cr.P.C. statement, wherein
Ext.2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures. She was also medically examined.

10.In cross examination, it is stated by her that she does not remember the

exact date of the incident. She lodged the complaint before the court
after 3 months of the incident. After the incident she had narrated the
facts to the other people including village head man and one village
meeting was arranged but the accused did not participate in the
meeting. Regarding the meeting no proceeding was prepared. However,
a

Page 5 of 14

attendance of the people were recorded. At the time of filing the
complaint in the court she had not submitted any document regarding
to her age. Nor had she submitted document relating to her age to
Police. She has also not mentioned in her complaint why there was delay
in lodging the same. After the incident she was not medically examined.
However, after filing of the case Police had medically examined her. The
accused is her maternal uncle but not through blood. In their family her
mother, two elder brother, one sister-in-law and one sister reside with
her and they have three houses within the same courtyard. She has
admitted that in her 161 Cr.P.C. statement that she had stated before
the Police that the accused taking advantage of absence of family
members in her home came to her home and by promising to marry her
committed sexual intercourse with her in the evening at around 3 p.m.
It is also stated in her 161 Cr.P.C. statement that the accused for the
last one year had been saying over mobile phone that he loved her. The
incident was witnesses by Malensa Begum alone. She has denied the
defence suggestion that on the day of occurrence the accused had not
committed forceful sexual intercourse with her and that she has lodged
the case falsely implicating the accused and that the accused was not
present in the village at the time of occurrence. She has also denied the
defence suggestion that her age was 19 years at the time of occurrence
and she has falsely stated her age was 15 years at that time.

PW2 Mustt. Atiran Bewa is the mother of the victim. She has stated that
about 6/7 months ago the alleged occurrence took place at around 10
a.m. When she was alone in the house~ as she had left her
daughter(prosecutrix) alone in the house to purchase some articles from
the shop at that time accused came to their home and committed
forceful sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix. The incident was
witnessed by one Malensa who reported the same to her. After seeing
Malensa the accused fled away. She narrated the faqct to the mother of
12.

13.

Page 6 of 14

the accused and in this regard one 'bichar' was arranged but the same
did not take place.

In cross examination, she has stated that she had not witnessed the
incident nor remember the date of incident. The matter was informed to
Police after two months of the incident. His daughter(prosecutrix) had
love relation with the accused since prior to one year of the incident.
She has denied the defence suggestion that one Asmat Ali had love
relation with her daughter(prosecutrix). In her U/S 161 Cr.P.C. statement
she had stated that she did not know if her daughter(prosecutrix) had
love affair with the accused and she did not know when the accused
went to their home and committed physical relationship with her
daughter and her daughter had not informed her about the incident on
the date of occurrence.

PW3 is Malensha Khatun. It is her evidence that the prosecutrix and the
accused are known to her. The accused had visiting term with the family
members of the prosecutrix who is now 15 years. About 8/9 months ago
at 10 a.m. when she went to bring water from the tube-well situated at
the house of the prosecutrix she had seen the accused with her in their
living room. She had seen the prosecutrix was studying and the accused
entered into her room and grabbed the prosecutrix. She had not seen
anything else and thereafter, she had returned. Then she asked the
accused about incident. He stated that he would marry the prosecutrix.
One meeting was called by the parents of the prosecutrix in the house
of one Kuddrat Ali , but the accused and his parents did not agreed with
the 'bichar' and did not participate. She was also not present in the
meeting. After the incident the accused entered into marriage with
another girl and Mursida had not entered into marriage.

14.In cross examination, she has stated that the distance between the

house of the accused and her is about 1 1/2 furlong . She does not
15.

Page 7 of 14

remember the exact date when she had seen the accused in the house
of the prosecutrix at 10 a.m. Nor she does remember the date when the
village 'bichar'had taken place in presence of Dewani Kuddrat Ali. Apart
from grabbing on her face of the prosecutrix she had not seen any
other act done by the accused. At that time no other person was present
except the accused and the prosecutrix. She has stated the age of the
prosecutrix on presumption. She is the paternal aunt of the prosecutrix.
She has denied the defence suggestion that the prosecutrix had no
relationship with the accused, and had not stated before her that he
would marry the prosecutrix. She also stated before the Police that he
did not know when and where the accused committed sexual act with
the prosecutrix.

PW4 Dr.Mrs. Pranita Das is the Medical Officer of this case who
examined the victim on police requisition on 19/07/16 in connection
with Dalgaon P.S. case No.503/16 U/S 376(2)(i)/212 /420 I.P.C. read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act . On physical examination she found no injury
mark in her private part and her mental conditiopn was fully conscious
and co-operative. As per radiological examination the approximate of
the prosecutrix was in between 20to 22 years. She has proved and
marked her medical report as Ext.3, wherein Ext.3(1) is her signature.

16.In cross examination, she has stated that the victim at the time of

medical examination refused to give her consent for her examination on
her private parts. On examination of the prosecutrix as per radiological
the prosecutrix was founds to be major.

17.PW5 is Abdul Mazid. He has stated to the effect thaty on 15/06/16 he

was working as S.Il. Of Police at dalgaon Police Station. On that day the
O/C, Dalgaon Police Station received one complaint from the court of
learned Chief Judicial magistrate, Darrang,Mangaldai with a direction to
register a case and investigate into it. Accordingly, the O/C, Dalgaon
Page 8 of 14

PS. on the basis of the complaint and treating the same as the FIR
registered a case vide Dalgaon PS case No.503/16 U/S 376(2)(i)/212/420
|.PB.C. read with Section 4 of POCSO Act and he was entrusted with the
investigation of the case. In course of investigation he recorded the
statement of the witnesses U/S 161 Cr.P.C. and also got the statement of
the victim recorded U/S 164 Cr.PC. and procured her medical
examination report. He also prepared one sketch map of the place of
occurrence. After completion of investigation having found a prima-facie
case he laid the case U/S 376(2)(1) IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO
Act. He has proved and marked the sketch map as Ext.4 ; wherein
ext.4(1) is his signature. Ext.5 is the charge sheet and ext.5(1) is his

signature.

18.In cross examination, he has stated that the date of occurrence has not
been mentioned in the FIR. The FIR was lodged after two months of the
incidenty without specifying the date of occurrence. As regard to cause
of delay in lodging the FIR there is no explanation in the FIR. The victim
did not produce the birth ceretificate to ascertain her age. He did not
collected her birth certificawte in the course of investigation.

19.Before proceeding to analyse the evidence on record as discussed
aforesaid in its proper perspective, it is worthwhile to mention that the
accused has been charged U/S 376 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO
Act. In this context, it is settled position of law that in a case of rape the
victim is not treated as an accomplice . The evidence of the victim is
treated almost like the evidence of an accomplice requiring
corroboration where the conviction is based on the evidence of the
prosecutrix without any corroboration it will not be illegal on the sole
ground. There is no rule of law that her testimony can not be acted upon
without corroboration in material particulars. She stands at higher
padestral than injured witness. However, if the court finds it difficult to
accept the version of the prosecutrix on its face value, it may search for
20.

21.

22

Page 9 of 14

evidence or direct or circumstantial which would lead assurance to her
testimony. Assurance sort of corroboration as understood in the context

of an accomplice would suffice.

In the decision of B.B. Hiraji Bhai VS Gujarat(AIR) 1983 S.C. 753
Their Lordship have expressed opinion which is reproduced herein
below:-

'' We are, therefore, of the opinion that if the evidence of the victim does
not suffer from "any basic infirmity and probabilities factor'' does not
render it unworthy of credence as a general rule, there is no reason to
insist on corroboration except from the medical evidence.", where
having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case or medical
evidence can be expected to be forthcoming when _ "probabilities
factors" is found to be out of tune.

Tested on the anvil and touchstone the aforesaid principle in the facts
and circumstances of the present case, if we appraise the evidence of
the PW1(prosecutrix) on record, it would appear that her testimony is
found to be shaky and suffers from basic infirmities and her testimony
does not even finds corroboration from the independant evidence of
PW2 as well as the medical evidence on record. Furthermore, the
evidence of the other witnesses are also full of exaggeration,
embellishment and replete with contradictions in respect of the broad
spectrum of the case and thereby rendering the prosecution casae not
at all belieavie as to the commission of the rape on _ the
prosecutrix(PW1).

.On close scrutiny of the evidence of the prosecutrix(PW1) it appears that

she has disclosed that the accused came to their house in absence of
any other family members in the house and committed forceful sexual
intercourse with her by removing her cloth. At that time when PW2 had
arrived the accused went away. In this respect, if we turn to the
Page 10 of 14

testimony of PW3 it would transpire that she has not stated that she saw
the accused committing sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix(PW1)
when she came to bring water from the tube-well situated in the house
of the prosecutrix. Rather, it is her evidence that she had only seen that
at that time the prosecutrix was studying and the accused after entering
into the room grabbed the face of Mursida. Except this she had not
seen anything else as she returned thereafter. Thus, the testimony of
the prosecutrix(PW1) belies her statement that the accused while
committing sexual intercourse with her left her house after having seen
PW3 who came to their house. It is also not believable as to her seeing
the accused inside the room of the prosecutrix at the time of grabbing
the face of the prosecutrix. If PW3 had seen the nefarious act on the
part of the accused with the prosecutrix she would have definitely
interfered instead of silently slipping away from the place of occurrence.
On the other hand, if the prosecutrix(PW1) had also seen PW3 while the
accused was committing sexual intercourse with her she would have
also raised hue and cry to save herself out of the situation, but there is
no evidence in the testimony of prosecutrix(PW1) that when the accused
had foreceful sexual intercourse against her will she raised cry for help
from the neighbourhood people adjacent to their house. That apart,
though the prosecutrix(PW1) has denied having any love relation with
the accused but her mother(PW2) has revealed in cross examination
that her daughter (PW1) had love relation with the accused prior to one
year of the incident. However, in contradiction to the testimony of the
prosecutrix(PW1) it has come to the light from the statement of the
victim recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. vide Ext.2 that she had love relation with
the accused before the incident the accused and promised to marry her.

23.Be that as it may, if the evidence of the Medical Officer(PW4) is perused
it would disclose that M.O.(PW4) has ruled out any injury mark on the
private part of the prosecutrix(PW1) at the time of her medical

examination and as per radiological examination the approximate age of
Page 11 of 14

the prosecutrix was found to be 20 to 22 years. It is further disclosed by
the M.O.(PW4) in cross examination that except undergoing radiological
X-ray examination by the prosecutrix(PW1) she refused to give her
consent to examine her private part. Thus, it can be safely inferred that
if there had been sexual intercourse with the victim against her will by
the accused she would have consented to examine her private part by
PW4. It is also beyond comprehenssion as to why the prosecutrix(PW1)
refused to give consent to examine her private part even when it is
apparent from the evidence on record of the prosecutrix(PW1) herself
that she lodged the FIR after two months from the date of occurrence.
Hence, the testimony of PW1 which is found to be full of embellishment
and improvement invariably creates a doubt as to the veracity of her
evidence that the accused had sexual intercourse with her against her
consent on the day of occurrence. Further more, though
PW1(prosecutrix) has claimed that she was 15 years old at the time of
occurrence but in order to substantiate claim of her age she has failed
to produce any certificate from available source. The prosecutrix has
admitted that she has not submitted birth certificate to prove that she
was a minor girl of 15 years at the time of occurrence, whereas the
radiological examination test discloses the age of the victim as 20 to 22
years at the time of the occurrence. When the prosecutrix has failed to
substantiate her age of minority at the time of commission of the
offence by producing birth certificate the radiological test examination,
Ext.3 disclosing that the victim girl was major girl of 20 to 22 years at
the time of the occurrence will prevail to hold that the prosecutrix(PW1)

was a major girl at the time of the occurrence.

24.The next important question arises for decision is what would be the
legal impact of delayed First Information Report. No doubt in Harpal
Singh and another -VS- State of H.P.(AIR 1981 SC 361) it has been
held that where the honour of the family is involved, then in such cases,
25.

26.

Page 12 of 14

at times the number of the family take some times to decide whether to
take the matter to the court or not.

In the present case in hand, it is patent that there is inordinate delay of
two months in lodging the FIR. But there is not a whisper as to the cause
of delay in lodging the FIR. However, though PW1(prosecutrix) for the
first time in the court in her evidence has sought to explaine the delay
in lodging the FIR as because the matter would place before the village
Samaj, but no statement could be arrived at the village Samaj due to
absence of the accused and as such, the complainant lodged the FIR
after two months from the date of occurrence can not be accepted as a
proper explanation for delay in lodging the FIR on the face of the
incoherent, inconsistent and contradictory evidence on record. It is
beyond comprehension as to why the prosecutrix(PW1) lodged the FIR
after inordinate delay of two months with the Police and what had
prompted her to place the matter after the incident before the Samaj
when she was a victim of ravishment by the accused and where the

honour of her and her family was involved.

Therefore, in my opinion the evidence of the prosecutrix(PW1) which has
suffered from serious infirmity and inconsistence has gone to the root of
the case affecting the "' probabilities factor" as to the alleged incident of
rape and rather it can be safely inferred that if she had sexual
intercourse with the accused on the date of occurrence she may have
consented to it being a grown up lady at that time due to love relation
with the accused. Hence, the evidence of the prosecutrix along with the
testimony of other PWs coupled with the lack of convincing evidence to
explaine the delay in lodging the FIR the prosecution case is found to be
unworthy of credence and creature of afterthought. Therefore, the
testimony of prosecutrix(PW1) is found to be incoherent and unimplicite
and also has not got corroboration from the other evidence on record
either direct or circumstantial and, therefore, the evidence on record
Page 13 of 14

does not have any cumulative effect fact to bring home the charge
levelled against the accused. Hence, the accused is entitled to acquittal.

27.|In the result, | am constrained to hold that the accused Md. lyasin Ali is
not guilty U/S 376 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. He is acquitted
thereunderr. He is set at liberty forthwith.

28.Bail bond executed by the accused and the surety shall remain in force
for another six months under the purview of Section 437(A) Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court this 21st" day of
November,2017.

Dictated and corrected by me and
each page bears my signatures.

(P.Saikia)
Sessions Judge Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPENDIX:
Page 14 of 14

A)Prosecution witnesses:

i)PW1 Morsida Begum
ii)PW2 Atiran Bewa

iii)/PW3 Malensha Khatun
iv)PW4 Dr.Mrs. Pranita Das
v)PW5 Abdul Mazid

B)Defence witness: Nil.
C)Exhibits:

i)Ext.1 FIR

li)Ext.2 statement of victim
iii)Ext.3 Medical report.
iv)Ext.4 Sketch map
v)Ext.5 charge sheet.

Sessions Judge
Darrang,Mangaldai.
