 

gwd
Baks?-

Roe
° Present: Shri C. Das

court
ge OP

‘
gnaio¥
Nu :

Judge, Special Court
Baksa, Mushalpur

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO.1 2/2018(OLD NO.18/17)
u/s 4 of POCSO Act

State

-versus-

Sri Gautam Barman

.... Accused

Appearance :
For the State : Mr. R. Chetry, Public Prosecutor, Baksa
For the accused : Ms. S. Kachary, Advocate
Date of evidence recorded : 29.5.17, 1.7.17, 27.8.18
Date of argument :23.9.19
Date of judgment > 4.10.19

JUDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution briefly, is that on 12.12.16, the

complainant Sri Sudhangshu Laskar lodged a FRI before the Officer-in-charge of
Gobardhana police station, alleging inter-alias that on 12.10.16, in absence of
anybody in the house, the accused trespassed into his house and by inducement,
took away his 11 years victim daughter (named is withheld) to the room of the
accused. Thereafter, the accused committed rape on his victim daughter against

her will.

Accordingly, the police registered the Gobardhana PS. Case
No.329/16 and started the investigation. During the investigation, !/O visited the
place of occurrence, examined the witnesses including the victim girl. She was sent
For medical examination and to record her statement u/s 164 CrPC. I/O seized the

birth certificate of the victim girl and gave zimma of the victim to the complainant.
 

> , cov

goKs?:

yen? vi

submitted the charge-sheet against the accused to face trial in the court.

3. After appearance of the accused in the court, he was immediately
furnished with copy of the case. Thereafter, upon hearing of the parties and on
perusing the material on record, the charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act was framed against
the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the accused who pleaded

not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution during the trial, examined as many as, 9(nine)
witnesses including I/O and M/O to support its case. In the statement recorded u/s
313 CrPC., the accused denied all incriminating circumstances appeared against him
in the evidence. The accused however, declined to adduce any evidence in defence.
The argument of the parties was heard at length and evidence on record is perused
carefully.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION :

5. Whether on 12.10.16, at night at Simlaguri under Gobardhana police
station, the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl, aged
about 11 years and daughter of complainant Sudhangshu Laskar ;

DECISION AND REASON THEREFORE :

6. Learned Public Prosecutor initiating the argument, submitted inter-
alias that story of the prosecution discloses that the accused committed
penetrative sexual assault upon the minor victim girl by entering into the house of
the complainant in his absence and took the victim to the house of the accused.
Hence, in case of sexual assault, the entire case of the prosecution rests upon the
evidence of the sole victim. The victim of the case was duly supported by the other
prosecution witnesses and medical evidence. He submitted Further that from the
evidence on record, the innocence of the accused is not consistent rather it
implicated the accused in the occurrence. The evidence of the prosecution
witnesses on record, has been able to bring home the charge against the accused

and therefore, the accused is liable to be convicted as per law.

7. On the other hand, learned counsel for the accused, opposed the

above submission made by learned Public Prosecutor, submitted that the evidence
 

record does not satisfy the conditions to attract the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

There is no ingredient in the evidence of the prosecution to implicate the accused
in the offence. There may be evidence that the accused came to the house of the
complainant but that does not hold good that the accused committed any other
offence against the victim girl. There is also, delay in lodging the FIR which can
discredited the reliability of the prosecution case. Under such circumstances, the

accused ought to get the benefit of doubt, it maintained.

8. Upon hearing the above submissions advanced by learned counsels
for the parties, it is now necessary to go through the evidence on record and to
reproduce the same herein. It appears that the prosecution examined the
complainant Sri Sudhangshu Laskar as PW1 who is the father of the victim girl as
well. He deposed inter-alias in the court that the victim was 11 and half years at the
time of occurrence who was raped by the accused. He was informed about the
occurrence by the victim after three months of the occurrence. The accused had
threatened the victim girl for which she kept mum. Hence, he Filed the ejahar. The
police sent the victim girl For her medical examination and to record her statement

in the court.

9. in the cross-examination, PW1 stated that he could not say the
contents of the ejahar. Apparently, PW1 is only Filed the ejahar. However, there was
delay of about three months in reporting the incident the reason of which is
mentioned by PW1.

10. PW2 Smti. Mamoni Laskar is the mother of the victim girl as well as,
the wife of PW1. She deposed inter-alias that the victim was 10/ 11 years old at the
time of occurrence. The residence of the accused is adjacent to her house. On the
Fateful night, she was not present in her house. Hence, the victim was stayed with
her two younger brothers while she went to Barpeta hospital. After three months,
one day in the evening, she went to the house of the accused and on return to
home, she asked the victim girl to have a look at the work done by the daughter of
the accused. Then, the victim declined to visit the house of the accused. On her
inquiry, the victim told her that the wife of the accused prevented her to visit the
house of the accused. On asking the reason, the victim told her that the accused
caught her breast and after opening her pant, the accused committed sexual
intercourse on her private part. The victim told her that the accused threatened her

that if she disclosed the incident, the accused will not only beat her but also, beat
    

at ne brothers. So, she reported the matter to PW1 who filed the case. The police
sent the victim for medical examination and to record her statement in the court.
Since the victim delayed in disclosing the incident, there was delay in filing the

ejahar.

11. In the cross-examination, PW2 denied that she did not state to the
police earlier that the victim told her that the accused caught her breast and after
opening her pant, the accused committed sexual intercourse on her private part.

Apparently, PW2 corroborates the version of PW1.

12. PW3 is the victim girl. Her name is withheld due to bar of law. She
deposed that on the fateful day, at night, the daughter of the accused called to
their house. Her parents went to hospital. She was sleeping with the daughter of
the accused. She along with the accused, his wife and children were sleeping on the
same bed. The accused put his hand on her breast. Thereafter, the accused opened
her pant Followed by the accused put his penis into her vagina. She started to
weep. The wife and children of the accused were at that time Fast asleep. The
accused asked her not to cry and told her that if she disclosed the incident to
anybody, then, the accused will take her life with her brothers. Hence, out of Fear,
she did not disclose the incident to others. After three months, she disclosed the
incident. After the incident, she did not visit the house of the accused. After three
months, PW2 asked her the reason for her not to visit the house of the accused and
then, she disclosed the incident to her mother. After filing the case by PW1, the
police sent her medical examination and to record her statement. Ext.1 is her

statement with her signature.

13. In the cross-examination, PW3 denied that on the fateful night, the

accused went to other place for cooking purpose. She raised 'hulla’ at the time of

occurrence. She used to share everything with the daughter of the accused and she

reported the incident to the daughter of the accused. PW3 denied that on the day

of marriage, her uncle Biplab Barman committed sexual intercourse with her and

out she disclosed it to the daughter of the accused and to cover up the same, her

yud0e OK eral dtrarents tutored her to depose falsely. Apparently, PW3 narrated the incident
oaks? clearly to implicate the accused in the occurrence.

14. But the medical evidence tendered by PW4 Dr. Anima Boro does not
corroborate the version of PW3. It is evidence of PW4 that on 13.12.16 at FAAMC &

hospital, Barpeta, on that day at about 1 pm, on police requisition, she examined
 
  

ea ‘:

yor * wW
. &
*

ger"

_Pw3 aged about 12 years, daughter of PW1 being identified by lady police and

ite Fs ‘e = % id
<u yes” found as follows ;

History; history of alleged sexual assault by the accused of same village 3
months before.

Physical examination : one black mole on upper lip; Height- 151cm., Weight-
30kg; Chest girth at nipple level- 67cm., Abdominal girth at navel level- 65cm.,
Breast — not developed; Puberty- not attained; Mental condition- stable; Gait-
normal: Intelligence- average; Wearing garments and any suspected stains
present- not stain detected; Bodily injury- no bodily injury detected;

Genital examination; Pubic hair- absent; Vulva (Libia majora & Libia minora) -
normal; Hymen- torn; Vagina- admits one finger easily; Cervix and Uterus-
uterus not palpable per abdominally ; Fourchette and perineum- normal;

Vaginal swab collected; Result of vaginal swab smear examination- no

spermatozoa is seen on microscopic examination of vaginal swab slide;

Result of x-ray investigation : plate no.MLC-208/ dated 13.12.16. wrist joint-
epiphyseal union is not completed; elbow joint- epiphyseal union is completed;
shoulder joint & pelvis- epiphyseal unions are not completed;

Opinion : (1) There is no recent sign of sexual intercourse; (2) There is no injury
on her private parts; (3) According to x-ray report, her actual age above 12
years and below 14 years at present.

15. Accordingly, PW4 filed the medical report vide Ext.2 with her
signature. The fact that PW4 examined PW3 medically is corroborated by PW1 and
2 with I/O. Apparently, the medical evidence does not lend support to the claim of
PW3. However, according to medical evidence, the age of PW3 is below 18 years.
No dispute is raised over the finding on the age of PW3. Hence, it appears that PW3

was a child at the time of occurrence within the meaning of Section 2(d) of POCSO
Act.

16. PWS Smti. Janmoni Das was declared hostile. But her evidence
discloses that she heard that the accused committed rape on PW3. The police came

and examined her. Her residence is just opposite to the house of the accused in
between there is a road.

17. The evidence of PW6 Smti. Ratna Barman is that she heard that the
accused was caught be police due to committing rape on PW3. Hence, such
evidence does not come to help the prosecution.
ae

make?

wus

 

>

putt

—

4

€

-—<

: = AB. PW7 Sri Sudhan Barman deposed that PW1 informed him that the

accused rape on PW3. Accordingly, he reported it to his uncle. On the inquiry, PW3
disclosed that the accused committed rape on PW3 at the residence of accused.
Thus, he came with PW1 to the police station. PW3 was 11/ 12 years old at the time
of occurrence. The police seized the birth certificate of PW3 vide Ext.3 with his

signature.

19, In the cross-examination, PW7 denied that he did not state to police
earlier that he heard the incident from the mouth of PW3. Thus, the evidence of
PW7 corroborates the version of PW1 and 2.

20. PW8 Sri Jayanta Das deposed in the court that he was reported
about the incident by PW7 and called him to come. Accordingly, he came to the
house of PW7 who informed him that the accused called PW3 and committed ill-
work with her. PW7 is the neighbour of PW1. Therefore, he asked PW3 why she did
not disclose the incident to her relatives. Then PW3 told that the accused
threatened her if she disclosed the incident to anybody, then, the accused will take
the life of her brother. Hence, the FIR was lodged. The police seized the birth
certificate of PW3 vide Ext.3 with his signature.

21. In the cross-examination, PW8 stated that he could not say the date
of birth of PW3. The house of the accused is near his residence. He denied that he
did not state to the police earlier that he asked PW3 about the incident and the
accused threatened PW3.

22. The evidence of 1/O PW9 Siddik Ali Ahmed is that on 12.12.16 while
he was working at Simlaguri OP., on that he received the FIR from PW1 and he
accordingly, lodged GDE No.182 dated 12.12.16 and forwarded it to O/C
Gobardhana police station. He proved the FIR vide Ext.4 with his signature. He
examined PW1 and visited the place of occurrence and drew up its sketch map vide
Ext.5 with his signature. He examined the witnesses and seized the birth certificate
of PW3 vide Ext.3 with his signature. He sent PW3 for her medical examination and
to record her statement u/s 164 CrPC. He arrested the accused. The O/C
Gobardhana police station registered the case No.329/16 and endorsed him to
investigate the case. He collected the medical report of PW3. At the end of
investigation, he Filed charge-sheet vide Ext.6 against the accused with his
signature.
In the cross-examination, I/O stated that the occurrence took place

 

° Se ee on 12.10.16 and the FIR was lodged on 12.12.16 after two months. The cause of
delay in Filing the FIR was mentioned as receiving repeated threatening of killing of
the brothers of PW3 by the accused. In this connection of threatening, no FIR was
lodged. As per Ext.4, it cannot be ascertained who wrote the FIR. As per Ext.5, the
place of occurrence is the house of the accused. There is no mention of number of
room, bed or other Furnitures in the house of the accused in EXt.S. There are
several houses near the house of the accused in Ext.5. I/O stated that Pw2 did not
state him previously that PW3 told her that the accused after removing her pant,
committed sexual intercourse with her and touched her breast.

24. Thus, from the evidence of the prosecution witnesses so tendered in
the case, it appears that the occurrence took place in the residence of the accused
on the fateful night when PW3 came to stay in the house of the accused. It shows
that PW1 is closed neighbour of the accused and as such, there was visiting terms
between the two families. PW3 also, visited the house of the accused and had
closeness with the daughter of the accused. Apparently, except PW3, there is no
other prosecution witnesses who could tender direct evidence of the occurrence.
Hence, the evidence of PW3 is important for the prosecution case. She is the sole
victim of the occurrence and at the same time, she is a child witness of the
prosecution case. Therefore, her evidence needs to assess properly since such
witness is very vulnerable to being tutored by others.

25: In State of Punjab vs. Gurmit Singh AIR 1996 SC 1393, Hon'ble
Supreme Court observed that “of late, crime against women in general and rape in
particular is on the increase. It is an irony that while we are celebrating
women's rights in all aspects, we show little or no concern For her honour. It
is a sad reflection in the attitude of indifference of the society towards the
violation of human dignity of the victims of sex crimes. We must remember

that a rapist not only violates the victim's privacy and personal integrity, but

» inevitably causes serious psychological as well as physical harm in the
cout ‘ process. Rape is not merely a physical assault it is often destructive of the
yo09e gale whole personality of the victim. A murderer destroys the physical body of

paxse.™ his victim a rapist degrades the very soul of the helpless Female. The courts,
therefore, shoulder a great responsibility while trying an accused on
charges of rape. They must deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. The
courts should examine the broader probabilities of a case and not get

swayed by minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the
statement of the prosecutrix, which are not of a fatal nature, to throw out

 

an otherwise reliable prosecution case. If evidence of the prosecutrix
inspires confidence, it must be relied upon without seeking corroboration
of her statement in material particulars. IF For some reason the court finds it
difficult to place implicit reliance on her testimony, it may look for evidence
which mat lend assurance to her testimony short of corroboration required
in the case of an accomplice. The testimony of the prosecutrix must be
appreciated in the back ground of the entire case and the trial court must
be alive to its responsibility and be sensitive while dealing with cases
involving sexual molestation. The courts while appreciating the evidence of
a prosecutrix may look for some assurance of her statement to satisfy its
judicial conscience, since she is a witness who is interested in the outcome
of the charge levelled by her, but there is no requirement of law to insist
upon corroboration of her statement to base conviction of an accused. The
evidence of a victim of sexual assault stands almost on a par with the
evidence of an injured witness and to an extent is even more reliable. Just
as a witness who has sustained some injury in the occurrence, which is not
found to be self-inflicted, is considered to be a good witness in the sense
that he is least likely to shield the real culprit, the evidence of a victim of a
sexual offence is entitled to great weight, absence of corroboration
notwithstanding. Corroborative evidence is not an imperative component of
judicial credence in every case of rape. Corroboration as a condition for
judicial reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrx is not a requirement of
law but a guidance of prudence under given circumstances. It must not be
overlooked that a woman or a girl subjected to sexual assault is not an
accomplice to the crime but is a victim of another person's lust and it is
improper and undesirable to test her evidence with a certain amount of
suspicion, treating her as if she were an accomplice. Inferences have to be
drawn from a given set of Facts and circumstances with realistic diversity
and not dead uniformity least that type of rigidity in the shape of rule of

law is introduced through a new Form of testimonial tyranny making justice

_ ourt
yuo? \ Paiout a casualty. Courts cannot cling to a fossil formula and insist upon
Ss . ; _
Baks3 Me corroboration even if, taken as a whole, the case spoken of by the victim of
sex crime strikes the judicial mind as probable.”
26. In the present case in hand, it cannot be disputed that the victim isa

child witness. So in one hand, it can be said that the victim child being an innocent

one, does not speak a lie to spare the real culprit. But at the same time, she is likely
   

2

yuda?

paksé

qausnalo

J be tutored by elderly relatives. Hence, reliability of such victim is required to

ate assess carefully. The above guide lines in deed, precious to decide the case.

Admittedly, she cannot be treated like an accomplice with the accused. Her
evidence is sufficient if found reliable wholly to base a conviction against the

accused.

27. So far as this case is concerned, it appears that the accused being
closed neighbour, is known to PW1, 2 and 3 properly. Since the accused is residing
near the residence of PW1, it is possible that the accused and family of PW1 used
to meet regularly on day to day basis. It appears from the evidence of PW1 and 2
that prior to three months of the occurrence, there appears no any occasion for
PW? to visit the house of the accused. Hence, PW2 asked PW3 to visit the residence
of the accused to watch something prepared by daughter of the accused which she
stoutly refused. Then PW3 disclose the incident as the reason for her refusal to visit
the residence of the accused. Accordingly, PW1 and 2 stated to be acquainted with
the incident happened to PW3.

28. On the other hand, PW3 did not disclose the incident till lapse of
three months due to fear put by the accused. In between the period of three
months till the day of revelation of incident by PW3, there is no evidence on record
to show that PW3 was really under fear of death From the accused. If the accused
put her in fear of death, her behaviour ought to be changed during that three
months period which might have come to the notice of her parents. But nothing has
been seen in the evidence of PW1, 2 and 3. Major deficiency in the case of the
prosecution is that there is lack of support of medical evidence. There is no
evidence seen From the doctor that PW3 was subjected to any sexual assault in the
light of Section 4 of POCSO Act. The evidence of PW3 does not come near to the

requirement of assault within the meaning of Section 351 IPC.

29. Delay must be the prime reason for such deficiency in the case. The
delay is stated to be the threatening given by the accused to PW3 not to disclose.

court But it is already observed that no behavioral change is noticed in the evidence of

ul Pw3 which can draw an inference that PW3 was under pressure of such threatening

of the accused. Thus, the explanation of delay is con convincing enough to rely the
prosecution case. It is highly probable that PW3 might be tutored by some elderly
person to speak by taking the plea of delay on the ground of threatening of the
accused, Thus, doubt comes in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses.

Accordingly, the accused is given the benefit of such doubt.
  

10

Under the above facts and circumstances of the case, the
prosecution has not able to prove its case against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the accused is held not guilty u/s 4 of POCSO Act.
The accused is therefore, acquitted and set at liberty. His bail bond shall however,
remain in Force for another 6 months from today u/s 437-A CrPC. The seized article
shall be given to the owner as claimed. Forward a copy of judgment to the District
Magistrate, Baksa, Mushalpur u/s 365 CrPC. It appears that the victim of the case is
entitled to get compensation u/s 357 CrPC. Accordingly, this court recommends
payment of such compensation by DLSA, Baksa district to the victim immediately.

31. Given under the hand and seal of this court on this 4° day of
October 2019.

Dictated and corrected by:

Judge Say Court -
Rakes, Musnatcn’ eS la ourt
Ba e3 M

snair ..
Baksa, Mushalpur neholoat

Typed by:
P. Deka, Com. Typist
  

“ANNEXURE :

{

List of prosecution witness :

PW...

vyvuyvdwTT.
= fF =

Ww
Ww

vu Vv

8
oe

 

Sri Sudhangshu Laskar ... complainant

1

2 ... smti. Mamoni Laskar
3...
4

.. Dr. Anima Boro ... m/o

victim girl (name withheld )

5... smti. Jonmoni Das
W6 ...
7

Smti. Ratna Barman

... Sri Sudhen Barman

... Sri Jayanta Das

Mr. Saddik Ali Ahmed ... I/o

List of defence witness :

Nil

List of documents exhibited :

ExE.1 as
Ext.2 ...
Ext.3 ...
Ext.4...
Ext. ...
Ext.6...

 

statement of victim u/s 164 CrPC
medical report

seizure list

FIR

sketch map

charge-sheet

W

Jud EGR GR ICSaRET!
ae ssautuplalour
