Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE ti: srs:: CACHAR,SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49 of 2019

(U/S 376 IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,

Special Judge,

 

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......cccccccsseecccccssssaessseeesssseeees Complainant.
-Versus-

RajiD HUSSAIN. ....... eee eeccceeeceeeeeeeeeteeeeeeesaseeeeeeseeeenee Accused.

Charge framed ON t-.........eecceecceseesstteeeeeecseeeesessneeeeeens 2.1.20

P.WS. GXAMINEC ON!-...... ee eeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeees 19.2.20

Argument heard On! .....ccecceceesesteeeeeeeesseesseeeeeeens 19.2.20.

Judgment pronounced and delivered on:-...........068 19.2.20.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : MrR.Ahmed, Id. Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an

FIR with the I/C of Kalain PP stating the facts that on 8.11.17 the
informant came to know from the teacher of the school of the minor victim
daughter ( name withheld )of the informant that accused at about 12-30
p.m. had taken away the victim from her school falsely stating that the
mother of the victim was seriously ill and thereafter accused had kept
concealed the victim.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/19

2. On receipt of the FIR, I/c Kalain PP. forwarded the same to
Katigorah PS wherein a regular PS case vide Katigorah P.S. Case No.655
of 2017 U/S 420/366A IPC was registered. Police started investigation
and during the course of investigation the statement of the victim girl was
recorded U/S 164 CrP.C and victim was medically examined. The
investigating officer visited the place of occurrence and prepared a rough
sketch map etc. and subsequently after completion of investigation
submitted charge sheet against accused Rajib Hussain U/S 366A/376 IPC
r/w section 4,6,8 of POCSO Act.
3. The offence u/s 4,6,8 of POCSO Act of the case being
exclusively triable by the Court of Special Judge, this case was taken up for
trial after filing of the charge sheet. In due course, upon appearance of the
accused and after hearing both sides formal charge U/S 376 of IPC and
Section 6 of POCSO Act was framed by this court against the accused
person. The charges having been read over and explained the accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(i) Whether on 8.11.17 at about 12-30 p.m. the accused
person committed rape on the victim as alleged?

( ii ) Whether the accused committed penetrative aggravated
sexual assault on the victim, as alleged ?
5. Prosecution side examined as many as 2 witnesses i.e., the
victim and the informant as PW.1 and PW.2 respectively . On the
submission of the Id. Special P.P. the evidence for the prosecution side is
closed. As no incriminating materials appears to be found against the
accused during evidence the recording of statement of the accused U/S
313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.

6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/19

also heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF
Pe Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused

person as mentioned in points for determination.

8. PW.1 is the victim and she deposed in her evidence that on the day
of occurrence, she went to the house of her maternal aunt at Natanpur
without informing her parents and her father out of misunderstanding of
facts, lodged the FIR against the accused. She added that police recovered
her from the house of her maternal aunt and thereafter she was taken to
SMCH, Silchar wherein her medical examination was done and she was also
brought to the Court where her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded.
She also deposed that she was handed over to her father as per order of the
Court and she was also kept in Ujala Home for one day. She further

deposed that at the time of occurrence, she was a student of class VII.

In her cross examination she stated that nobody had kidnapped her

and nobody did any bad acts with her.

9. PW.2, Abdul Sukkur, who is the informant of this case deposed that
the occurrence took place about two/three years ago and on that day his
victim daughter went to school and has not returned. He further deposed
that as his daughter went to the house of his sister in law at Natanpur
without informing him and as such on suspicion he lodged the FIR against
the accused. He also deposed that police had recovered his daughter and
she was kept in Ujala Home and thereafter brought to the Court and her

statement was recorded and thereafter she was given zimma to PW.2. He
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/19

also deposed that at the time of occurrence the age of the victim was
about 18/19 years.

In his cross examination PW.2 stated that he does not know the
contents of the FIR.
10. So, from the statement of prime witnesses i.e. the victim PW.1
and informant PW.2 it appears that they did not at all implicate the accused
in the alleged offence of crime. Rather victim in her cross examination stated
that nobody had kidnapped her and nobody did any bad acts with her and
the informant also deposed in his evidence that as the victim went to the
house of his sister in law without informing him and as such on suspicion he
lodged the FIR against the accused. In view of the above evidence of the
victim and the informant, the principal witnesses , the accused deserves to

be acquitted.

11. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/S 376 IPC and Sec. 6
of POCSO Act.

12. In the result, accused person is not held guilty and stand

acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty forthwith.
Bail bonds stand discharged.
Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on

this the 19" day of February, 2020.
Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee, Stenographer Gr. I
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/19

 

Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 49 of 2019.
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — victim
PW. 2 — Abdul Sukkur

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.1—statement of the victim

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
