Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination:of accused u/s :

313 of CrPC.
Date of Argument
Date of. Judgment

Counselof the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

26 OF 2017
(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, arising
out of GR Case No 1861 of 2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

State of Assam
-Vs-

1.Sri Jamun Biswakarma

2.Sri Thakur Prasad Biswakarma,
Both are S/o Late Chandulal Biswakarma,
Vill- Rupanjali,

P.S. — Missamariy

Dist- Sonitpur.

3.Sri Ganesh. Rai,

S/o Late Sarbadhaj Rai,

Vill = Naharani.

P.S. — Missamari,

Dist-Sonitpur.

25-08-2017
07-09-2017,25-09-2017,
06-11-2017,16-11-2017,&
30-11-2017.

30-11-2017.

30-11-2017.
30-11-2017.

Mr Munindra Ch Baruah,
Public Proecutor,

Sonitpur.

Mr HP Sadai, Advocate.
Page |2

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Jamun Biswakarma, Thakur Prasad Biswakarma
and Ganesh Rai are put for trial for the allegation of charge under Section 4 of the
POCSO Act.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that on 26-05-2017
the informant Bir Bahadur Blswakarma heard from his minor daughter(Victim) that
accused persons all are above 50s committed rape her. On being come to»know
about the incident, he made complaint to their neighbour. The neighbour advised he

informant to file the ejahar. Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the complainant Sri-Bir;Bahadur BIswakarma
before the OC,Missamari Police Station on 28-05-2017.

4, On receipt of the ejahar, O/C, Missamari Police Station registered the
case vide Missamari Police Station Case No.61/17 under Section 376(d) of IPC, r/w
Section 6 of POCSO Act. After completion.of investigation, O/C, Missamari Police

Station sent up the case against the.accused persons under Section 4 of POCSO Act.

5. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
the parties, charge framed.under Section 4 of POCSO Act. Particulars of the charge
was read over, explained)to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed
to be tried.

6. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as seven
witnesses\which include informant and victim. After examination of the 7 witness,
learned Counsel for the accused submitted to close the prosecution evidence on the
ground that this is a case under Section 4 of POCSO Act, where the victim no way
support the prosecution case and it would be futile to examine the other witnesses.

Learned Special PP also conceded.

7. A close scrutiny of the statement of the statement of witnesses,
particularly the complainant and most particularly the victim, it appears that the
victim herself stated that on the day of incident, accused Ganesh Rai came to their

house and forcibly wants to have meal. Other accused Jamun Biswakarma and
Page |3

Thakur Biswakarma did not do anything to her. Thereafter, her father along with one
Subba filed this case. After instituting the case, she made statement before the
learned Magistrate under Section 164 CrPC. She made statement before the learned
Magistrate under the dictation of Mr Subba and one “Baideo”. Ext.1 is the said
statement and Ext. 1(1), 1(2) and 1(3) are her signatures. Therefore, the victim no
way reveals any material against any of the accused. Similarly, the complainant also
did not indicate the accused persons to convict them with the statement of
witnesses, most particularly the evidence of victim. With the evidence of said
witnesses I think that it would be futile to examine the other witnesses. Even if
examined the other witnesses, prosecution case would not develop. Speedys=trial is

the right of the accused person. Considering this all, prosecution evidence is closed.

8. Accused is examined under Section 313.CrPC sand the evidence
appears against the accused persons and the allegations made against the accused
persons are put before me for his explanation where they denied the allegations and

declined to give defence evidence.

9. I have also heard argument..put forward by the learned Counsel for
both the sides.
10. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) “Whether on 26-05-2017, at Kalamati,
Rupanjal, under Missamari PS, the accused
persons committed penetrative sexual assault on
Miss "X” and thereby committed an _ offence
punishable under Section 4 of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

 

11. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidences on
record.
12. PW1 — Bir Bahadur Biswakarma, who is the complainant of this case,

deposed that the victim is his daughter. He knows all the accused persons by their
names. The incident took place about four months ago and at the relevant time his
victim daughter was alone in her home and he went to market. Everyday, he went
out to work outside of his house and usually returned home in the evening time. He

has no wife. Accused Serpa Lengra has paid money to his daughter for sexual
Page |4

intercourse. He does not know if other two accused persons did something. The age
of his daughter is about 12 years. The case was filed by his about three months ago.
The scribe after writing the ejahar did not read over to him. A village meeting was
convened for the allegation of involving his daughter in some incident. The persons
against whom the meeting was called were not present in the Court today. The
meeting was held in their village. After the meeting, he has filed the ejahar by

putting his thumb impression.

In cross-examination he stated that at the advice of local public the
scribe has written the ejahar and he has only put his thumb impression thereon. He
has not informed to police. Police did not record his statement, but, police recorded
the statement of his victim daughter. Accused Ganesh Rai possesses a plot of land
measuring 5 bighas which is situated adjacent to his house and Ganesh Rai resides
in the house which existed in the aforesaid plot of landInythe aforesaid land of
Ganesh Rai a new road was being constructed. Some of the trees(Gomari) belonged
to Ganesh Rai fell on the said road and the local public not to cut the said trees as
the said trees belongs to public. For that, incident, a strain relation becomes in

between both the parties.

13. PW2 Sri Jiten Rai\@.Jiban deposed that he knows all the accused
persons as well as the complainant and the victim and the incident took place about
three and half months-ago..As a President of Gorkha Student Union, of Jangalmati,
He has been invited to a meeting allegation of committing misdeed to the victim Miss
“X"by the accused persons and accordingly, he attended the said meeting and came
to know from,the local public that accused persons committed “Beya Kam” to the
victim..In. the meeting the father of the victim stated that he accused persons
committed “Beya Kam” to the victim. It is also stated in the meeting that in the
house’ of victim, only she along with her father resides as the mother of the victim
died earlier and sometimes, she has to say alone in their house while her father went
out to works. In the said meeting victim Miss “X” told that accused Jamun
Biswakarma, Gonesh Rai and Thakur Prasad Biswakarma forcefully raped her and in
the said meeting Jamun Biswakarma and Thakur Prasad Biswakarma were also
present and other accused Ganesh Rai was absconding. Therefore, in the meeting

the local public advised the complainant to file the case.
Page |5

In cross-examination, he stated that the ejahar was written in the said
meeting. He cannot recall the name of the scribe. Police came to the said meeting
and the ejahar was handed over to the police at the meeting. Before arrival of police,
two accused persons confessed their guilt. Police recorded his statement at the
police station. He also stated that he has not heard anything from the mouth of the

victim Miss “X”.

14. PW3 — Bhim Bahadur Subba, who turned hostile, stated that he knows
the complainant and victim. The incident took place about three and half months
ago. The complainant is his neighbout. At the relevant time, the victim girl was
studied at Class-IV standard. The mother of the victim was expired. In,their house,
she is lived alone only with her father. On the day of incident, father of the victim
went out to do his work. The complainant informed him that an ‘incident took place
with his girl. He was also reported that accused persons committed rape on victim
Miss “X”. He becomes surprised and then a meeting was convened at village. In the
meeting, accused Jamun Biswakarma and Thakur Prasad Biswakarma had come, but,
Ganesh Rai did not come. It was decided in‘the meeting that the ejahar was required
to be lodged in the police station. Aftervone_day of the incident police came to the

place of occurrence. Then he turned-hostile.

15. PW4 — Bir Bahadur Rai, who also turned hostile. The un-hostile
portion of this evidencevis.that, the incident took place 4/5 months ago. He knows

the victim and her father. They are belongs to their village. Then, he turned hostile.

16. PW5 — Mina Chetry who also turned hostile. The un-hostile portion of
her evidence is that she knows the complainant as well as the accused persons. She
also. know the victim. She does not know about the incident. The local public caught
the aecused persons and handed over to police. The victim girl reported to her father
that the accused persons committed rape on her. Therefore, the local people handed

over them to police. Then she turned hostile.

17. PW6 — victim Miss “X”, who was examined after her ability to
administer, ought stated that she knows all the accused persons, but, she knows only
Jamun Biswakarma and Ganesh Rai. The incident took place in the day time. At the

relevant time she was alone in the house. Her father went out to market. During that
Page |6

time accused persons came to their home. Accused Ganesh Rai attempted to commit
misdeed her forcibly. She further added that Ganesh Rai came to their house, forcibly
wanted to have meal. After having meal he left their house. Jamun Biswakarma and
Takhur Prasad Biswakarma did not do any misdeed to her. Thereafter, her father
along with Mr Subba filed this case. After instituting the case she was examined
medically by doctor and her statement was also recorded according to the dictation
of Subba and one ‘Baideo’ made such statement before the learned Magistrate. Ext.1
is the statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC and Ext.1(1), 1(2) and 1(3) are

her signatures. She made statement before the Court truly.

In her cross-examination, she admitted that her father filed this case
at the instigation of Mr Subba. Her father is an illiterate person. After instituting the
case, one Rita Rabha which they called as Baideo accompanied her to police station
and also accompanied her to the Magistrate. In fact,<Rita. Rabha made statement
before the learned Magistrate. She only put signature. In fact she did not speak
anything to learned Magistrate and to the police. They do not have any objection in
all the accused persons. Even they have no-any. objection, if the accused persons are

enlarged on acquittal. On Subba has called a.village meeting

18. PW7 — Smti Rita\Rabha deposed that she knows all the accused
persons as well as the victimaThe incident took place about seven months ago and
after the incident, the. victim_was taken to police station and she was also called to
interpret the language as the victim do not know Assamese. During that time, she
interpreted the language of the victim into Assamese. She stating that accused
persons gives.Rs.’10/- to the victim for “Beya Kam”. All the accused persons came
separately. for doing “Beya Kam”. Police recorded her statement. She came to know

that.the victim girl was sent for medical examination and to the Court.

In her cross-examination, she stated that she has been called by
Gorkha Student Union Personnel Narayan Biswakarma and requested me to interpret
the statement of the victim into Assamese. As per his request she went to the police
station and there she meets the victim. She does not know whether the victim can

speak or understand Assamese language.

19. This much is the prosecution evidence.
Page |7

20. The accused persons are charged under Section 4 of POCSO Act. To
prove under Section 4 of POCSO Act, prosecution must prove the ingredients as
enumerated Section 3 of POCSO Act.

21. Penetrative Sexual assault — A person is said to commit

“Penetrative sexual assault” if —

"(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into
the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus o a child or
makes the child to do so with him or any person;
or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a
part of the body, not being the. penis, into the
vagina, the urethra or anus ofthe child or
makes the child to do so with.him or any other
person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body or the
child so as to cause penetration into the vagina,
urethra, anus or any part of body of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other
person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina
anus, urethra or the child or makes the child to
do so:to'such person or any other person.

"The clause defines the offence of penetrative sexual
assault. It provides that if a person penetrates his penis, to any extent
into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to
do so with him\or any other person; or he inserts, to any extent, any
object.or.a part of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the
urethra.or anus of the child or makes the child to do so with him or any
other person; or he manipulates any part of the body or the child so as
to.cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body
of the child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or
he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra or the child or
makes the child to do so to such person or any other person, he is said
to commit the offence of penetrative sexual assault”.

22. Here in this case, PW6- the victim, who is the star witness in this case.
The statement of victim Miss “X” does not reveal any ingredients of the aforesaid
Section. Therefore, charge under Section 4 of POCSO Act failed. Hence, I do not

have any hesitation to acquit the accused. Accordingly, accused persons are
acquitted and set them at liberty forthwith.
Page |8

23. The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

24. Send back the LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 30" day of
November, 2017.

(A. K. Borah)

Sessions Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Dictated and corrected by me.

(A. K. Borah)
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |9

APPENDIX

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Sri Bir Bahadur Biswakarma, Complainant,
2.PW2 — Sri Jiten Rai @ Jiban,

3.PW3 — Sri Bhim Bahadur Subba

4.PW4 — Sri Bir Bahadur Rai

5.PW5 — Smti Mina Chetry

6.PW6 — Miss “X” (victim) &

7.PW7 — Smti Rita Rabha.

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

1. Ext. 1 : Statement of the victim recorded under.Section 164 CrPC.

(A. K. Borah)
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
