Page 1 of 8

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

34 OF 2017
(Under Section 17/4 of the POCSO
Act, arising out of G.R. Case No.
2079 of 2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
1) Sri Karlush Bhengra
Son of Late Alexus Bhengra
Resident of Malizan Sonaibill,
Police Station — Chariduar,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam

2) Smt. Punam Sinkho
Daughter of Manual Sinkho,
Resident of Akabasti Benguligaon,
Police Station — Chariduar,

Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
26/06/2018

12/07/2018,

12/07/2018

12/07/2018.

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Mr. F. Haque & Ors, Advocates.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused person, namely Sri Karlush Bengra is put for

trial for allegation of charge under section 4 of the POCSO Act and the

 
Page 2 of 8

other accused Smt. Punam Sinkho is also put for trial for allegation of
charge under section 17 of the POCSO Act.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that in the
morning about 10 AM of 31.05.2017 the informant’s daughter Miss “X”
aged about 11 years enticing by Smt. Punam Munda to their house at 18"
mile and thereafter kidnapped her. On vigorous search, they could not
trace out her. Hence, the prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by
informant Smt. Aiti Topno before the O/C of Chariduar PS on 04.06.2017.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of
Chariduar Police Station registered a case being Chariduar P.S. Case No
131/17 under Section 366 of IPC. After completion of usual investigation,
the O/C Chariduar Police station sent up the case for trial against the
accused persons, namely, Sri Karlush Bengra and Smt. Punam Sinkho
under Section 366(A) of IPC r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused persons before this Court, after
hearing both parties, charge framed under section 4 of the POCSO Act,
2012 against the accused Sri Karlush Bhengra and also charge under
section 17 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused Smt. Punam
Sinkho and particulars of the charges were read over and explained to the

accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty and claim to be tried.

Sy To substantiate the case, prosecution examined only two
witnesses in support of their case. After completion of evidence of the
victim and the complainant, who is the mother of the victim, learned
Counsel for the accused submitted to close the prosecution evidence on
the ground that neither the complainant nor the victim could have reveals
any of the ingredients of the alleged charges framed against the accused
persons. The Ld. Counsel for the accused again submitted that even if

examined the other prosecution witnesses, prosecution case would not

 
Page 3 of 8

develop. I have also heard the Learned Special Public Prosecutor who also

conceded.

6. On perusal of the statement of the complainant Smt. Aiti Topno
and the victim Miss “X” it appears that none of the said witnesses implicate
any of the accused in any of the alleged charge against them. Therefore,
even if examine the other prosecution witnesses, the prosecution case
would not develop. Speedy trial is the right of the accused persons. Hence,
for to secure ends of justice, prosecution evidence is closed. The
statement of the accused persons u/s 313 CrPC is dispensed with due to

lack of incriminating materials against the accused persons.

7. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of
both the parties.

8. The point for decision in this case is that -

(a) “Whether the accused Smt. Punam Sinkho on 31.05.2017
at about 10 AM at Kalabari Chapori under Chariduar
Police station, abet to commit penetrative sexual assault
on Miss "X” (11 years) by the accused Karlush Bhengra
and thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 17 of POCSO Act?

(b) “Whether the accused Sri Karlush Bhengra on
31.05.2017 at about 10 AM at Kalabari Chapori under
Chariduar Police station, committed penetrative sexual
assault on Miss "X” (11 years) and thereby committed an
offence punishable under section 4 of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence

on record.

10. PW 1, Smt. Aiti Topno, mother of the victim as well as the

informant of this case stated that the incident took place about one month

 
Page 4 of 8

ago. At the relevant time she went to her works. Accused Punam took her
daughter Somari to 18 mile. They searched her but did not find her.
Thereafter, she has filed a case against the accused. Police recovered her
daughter. She was medically examined by doctor and brought to the court
for recording her statement u/s 164 CrPC. Thereafter, her daughter was

handed over to her.

11. In her cross examination, she admitted that at the relevant time
her girl may be 19/20 years. As she was not at home so she did not see
how her daughter went out. She could not say from where police
recovered her daughter and where she was staying at 18" mile. Her
daughter also did not state anything about the occurrence after recovery
her. She has filed the FIR on suspect against the accused Punam. The
case was filed due to misunderstanding. She does not want to proceed

with the case further. Thereby, she goodbye to the prosecution case.

12. PW 2, Miss “X” who is the victim of this case has stated that she
knows both the accused persons. The incident took place about 2 years
ago. Punam took her to Malijan. Her mother afraid so she filed the case.
She met Karlush at Malijan. She lived there for about one month in the
house of Karlush who is the brother of Punam. She lived in the house of
Karlush. Karlush slept with her, other than that he did not do anything to
her. Thereafter, he took her to her house. After instituting the case, she
was took to Ld. Magistrate to record her statement u/s 164 CrPC. Ext 1 is

her statement and Ext 1(1-2) are her signatures.

13. In her cross examination, she admitted that she went to the
house of Karlush as a guest at her own will. No one has forced her to go
to the house of Karlush and none has doing any misdeed to her during her

stay at Karlush’s house.

14. These much is the evidence of prosecution.

 
Page 5 of 8

15. To prove the charged u/s 17 of POCSO Act, the
prosecution must prove that:-

(I) Accused instigate any person to do that offence;

(II) Engages with one or more other person or persons
in any conspiracy for the doing of that offence, if an
act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of
that conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that
offence;

(III) Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the
doing of that offence.

16. Here in this case the statement of the victim nowhere reveals any

of the materials as stated above. Therefore, the prosecution has failed to
prove the alleged charge u/s 17 of POCSO Act against the accused Punam
Sinkho.

17. To prove the charge under section 4 of the Protection of Child
from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, prosecution must prove the

ingredients mentioned in section 3 of the POCSO Act.

Section 3 of the POCSO Act quoted as follows:

Section 3. Penetrative Sexual assault, - A person is said to
commit “penetrative sexual assault” if —

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into
the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child
or makes the child to do so with him or any
other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part
of the body, not being the penis, into the
vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other
person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the
child so as to cause penetration into the
vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body o the

 
Page 6 of 8

child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina,
anus, urethra of the child or makes the child
to do so to such person or any other person.

"The Clause defines the offence of penetrative sexual
assault, It provides that if a person penetrates his penis, to any
extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or he
inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being
the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or he
manipulates any part of the body or the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of
the child or makes the child to do so with him or any other
person; or he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus,
urethra or the child or makes the child to do so to such person or
any other person, he Is said to commit the offence of
penetrative sexual assault”.

18. Here in the present case, neither the complainant nor the victim
supported the prosecution case. The statement of the victim no way
reveals any ingredients as stated above. The victim stated that Punam
took her to Malijan and there she met Karlush. She lived there for about
one month in the house of Karlush, who is the brother of Punam. She lived
in the house of Karlush. Karlush slept with her, other than that he did not
do anything to her. Thereafter, he took her to her house. On the other
hand, in her cross examination, she admitted she went to the house of
Karlush as a guest at her own will. No one has forced her to go to the
house of Karlush and none has doing any misdeed to her during her stay

at Karlush’s house.

19. In the case like section 4 of POCSO Act, the victim is the star
witness. When the victim gives goodbye to the prosecution case, it will be

futile to discuss the other evidence of the witnesses. Here in this case as

 
Page 7 of 8

stated above, the victim failed to reveal any materials against the accused

person.

20. Under such circumstances, I have no hesitation to hold that the
prosecution has categorically failed to prove any of the charge against any
of the accused persons beyond any reasonable doubt. Therefore, I acquit
the accused persons namely, Sri Karlush Bengra and Smt. Punam Sinkho
and set them at liberty.

21. The liabilities of the bailor are hereby discharged.

22. Let the G.R Case No. 2079/2017 be sent to Ld. committal Court

along with a copy of Judgment.

23. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 12™ day
of July, 2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Sri. Janmoni Deka, Steno

 
Page 8 of 8

APPENDIX
Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 - Smt. Aiti Topno, the complainant
P.W.2 - Miss “X”, the victim

Witnesses for Defence : NIL

Prosecution Exhibit

Ext.1 - Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC.

Ext.1(1-2) - Signatures of the victim

Defence Exhibits : NIL
Material Exhibits: NIL

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
