 

Present: Smti S. Bhuyan
Special Judge
Nalbari.

Special (P) CASE NO : 20/19
(Under section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.)

STATE
-V/s-
Rituparna Gautam
S/O-Sri Upen Sarma
R/o: Vill-Budrukuchi

PS-Nalbari, Dist-Nalbari sss... Accused person
Appearance :-
For the prosecution : Mr. K. Sarma, Special PP
For the defence : Mr. T. Anmed, Advocate.

Mr. M. Misra, Advocate

Date of institution of the case —_: 20/04/19

Date of framing charge : 03/06/19

Date of evidence : 16/07/19, 17/07/19, 18/07/19,
19/07/19, 20/07/19, 01/08/19,
03/08/19, 05/08/19, 19/08/19

Statement of accused recorded : 12/09/19

Date of Argument : 23/10/19, 30/10/19

Judgment Delivered : 13/11/19

Sentence hearing : 15/11/19

Sentence Pronounced : 15/11/19
UDGMENT

1. The fact of the prosecution case is that on 19/04/19, victim
girl ‘Miss X’ aged about 15 years adopted daughter of Late
Nripendra Sarma was taken away by accused Rituparna Gautam at
about 10 pm from the house of Jamini Mishra on the night of his

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 1 of 18
daughter Madhusmita Misra’s marriage where victim was staying
being her maternal uncle and after taking her into the field
accused had rape the victim. It is the prosecution case that victim
at the time of incident was not mentally sound and she came to
her maternal uncle’s house with her mother to attend the
marriage of Madhusmita Misra. The family member and guest
present in the marriage house when found Miss ‘X’ the victim
missing they made search for her and during search she was
recovered in the field with the accused and then both were
brought, police was informed and informant was also informed and
at the time of recovery of victim she was found topless, one
person gave her shirt to cover up her body and they were taken to
the police station. Informant who is the cousin elder brother of
victim was informed from the police station by his another cousin
sister about bringing of victim at the police station and about the
incident of her recovery in the field with accused in indecent
condition, he came to police station and then lodged the written
ejahar.

Z. On the date of incident O/C, Nalbari PS received one
telephonic information from one _ Hitesh Talukdar about
apprehension of one boy and girl by the village people so after
making a GD entry vide GD Entry No. 25 dated 19/04/19 police
from Nalbari PS proceeded to the place of occurrence the public
graveyard of village Janigog and found the victim with accused
who were apprehended by the public and brought them to the
police station with the near relative of the victim girl. The O/C,
Nalbari PS on receipt of the written ejahar from PW-1 Jyoti Kr
Sarma registered Nalbari PS case no. 247/19 u/s-376(3)(2)(n) IPC
and section 6 of the POCSO Act. In course of investigation I/O
prepared sketch map of the place of occurrence (Ext-11),
produced victim at SMK Civil Hospital, Nalbari for her medical
examination, recorded her statement u/s-161 CrPC and thereafter,
she was produced before the court to record her statement u/s-
164 CrPC, seized the motorcycle and mobile belonging to the
accused from the place of occurrence (Ext-8), seized the

prescriptions of the victim undergoing treatment from Dr
Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 2 of 18
Jayashree Das, consultant clinical psychologist and one under Dr
Jayanta Das, Consultant psychiatrist, two no’s of jeans pant, one
black ganji, one Sporting, one yellow ganji, one panty vide Ext-10
and produced accused before the court after his medical
examination and on completion of investigation he submitted
charge sheet against the accused Rituparna Gautam u/s-376(3)(2)
(n) IPC and section 6 of the POCSO Act 2012.

3. After taking cognizance, necessary copies furnished to the
accused and after hearing learned counsel for the accused and
Special PP and perusal of the material on record the charge u/s-
376(2)(I) IPC and section 6 of the POCSO Act has been framed
finding prima facie material against the accused and when
charges are read over and explained to the accused he pleaded
not guilty and stood for trial.

4. Prosecution submitted that victim Miss ‘X’ is below 18 years
and is suffering from mental illness and accused rapped her. To
prove the charge prosecution adduced evidence of altogether 12
no’s of witnesses including informant, victim, and medical officer
and Investigating officer of the case and exhibited 12 no’s of
documents. PW-1, Jyoti Kr. Sarma (informant), PW-2, Miss 'X'
(victim), PW-3, Prafulla Misra, PW-4, Bharati Misra, PW-5, Rupanjali
Misra, PW-6, Dr. Urmi Devi Choudhury (M/O), PW-7, Arup Baishya
@ Pinku, PW-8, Nipan Sarma, PW-9, Hitesh Talukdar, PW-10, Joy Kr.
Misra, PW-11, Munindra Sarma, PW-12, Mridul Bhagawati, |O of the
case. Ext-1, ejahar, Ext-2, statement of victim u/s-164 CrPC, Ext-3
Medical report, Ext-4, consent report of victim for medical
examination, Ext-5, report of USG, Ext-6, report of vaginal swab
done at SMK Civil Hospital, Nalbari, Ext-7, X-ray report, Ext-8,
seizure list, Ext-9, seizure list, Ext-10, seizure list, Ext-11, sketch
map and Ext-12, charge sheet. After closures of the evidence of
the prosecution, statement of the accused Rituparna Gautam
recorded u/s-313 Cr.P.C and accused plea is total denial however
accused declined to adduce evidence in support of his plea of
denial.

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 3 of 18
5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATIONS ARE:-

(i) Whether victim was below 18 years and was minor at the time
of incident and she was suffering from mental illness at the time of

incident?

(ii) Whether accused taking advantage of Miss ‘X’ mental
disability/illness committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault

upon her?

(iii) Whether accused taking advantage of Miss ‘X’ mental
disability/illness committed rape upon her.

Argument

6. | have heard argument of learned counsel for both sides.
Learned special PP contended that prosecution by adducing
statement of informant, medical officer and other PWs established
that victim was below 18 years and she was minor at the time of
incident and also established that there is mental disability of the
victim and it has been also coming from the evidence and
materials on record and from the medical examination report of
the victim that she was undergoing treatment of psychological
problem and I/O of the case seized document relating to
psychological treatment undergoing by the victim and victim
statement established the prosecution charges against the
accused person.

7. It has been argued by the learned defence counsel that
informant lodged the ejahar on the next day of the incident though
victim and accused brought to the police station on the night of
incident and the delay in filing ejahar is fatal for the prosecution
case. The victim was brought to the police station on the same
day, i.e. on the date of incident in terms of GD Entry but said GD
entry not placed before the court and therefore, the prosecution
case as a whole go away and has no merits. He further submitted
that police did not visit the place of occurrence and this has been
revealed from the statement of victim adduced before the court.
She stated police did not visit the place of occurrence with her and

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 4 of 18
place of occurrence is the side of road near paddy field which is
about 200 meters distance from the marriage house. Victim
evidence pointed that she is a major girl of 20 years old, she goes
with accused of her own and there is no document in respect of
her age is produced by I/O to show that she is below 18 years and
radiological estimated age is not the conclusive proof of actual
age of person. There is always error of 2/3 years in both sides and
if 2-3 years is added on either side of radiological age she is above
18 years and in cross she stated she is 20 years. There is no
medical documents produced to show victim was suffering from
any kind of mental illness or is undergoing psychological
treatment. Medical Officer, PW6 statement pointed that her
intelligence and memory is good. Therefore, the fact that alleged
victim girl is minor and is suffering from any physical and mental
deformities are not proved. Learned counsel further submitted
that the victim in her statement stated that she was friendly with
the accused in the marriage house. She pinched accused’s hand
while giving a glass of water to accused. First accused sit on the
motorcycle and then she sat. Thus shown she being major went
with the company of accused of her own. Her evidence does not
pointed commission of any physical relationship and medical
examination ruled out commission of recent sexual intercourse
though victim was examined by Pw-6 within 24 hours of the
incident and till then she was at the police station therefore
allegation of commission of rape does not established and
ingredients of section 376(2)(l) IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act
does not attract. Learned counsel further submitted that touching
body may attract other provision of law but not section 6 of the
POSCO Act and section 376 IPC and ingredients of section 3 of the
POCSO Act and section 375 IPC does not comes to play and
accused entitled acquittal.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

 

8. PW-1 is the informant of the case, he in his evidence and
ejahar stated that victim is aged about 15 years old on the date of
incident. Incident took place on 19/04/19 on the day of marriage of

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 5 of 18
Madhusmita Misra, D/o- Jamini Misra of village Janigog. It is an
admitted fact that victim as well as accused came to the marriage
house where they came into contact with each other. Victim Miss
‘Xx’ at the time of recording her statement stated that she is aged
about 15 years. PW-7 stated that victim is aged about 14/15 yrs.
PW-9 Hitesh Talukdar stated age of the victim is about 12/13
years. PW-4 in cross stated victim was adopted when she was a
baby by her adoptive parents.

9. PW-6 is the Medical officer. Her statement is that on
20/04/19, she had examined Miss ‘X’ aged 15 years and victim
was found taking treatment for some psychological condition with
Dr Jayanta Das since last 2 years, menarche was at 12 years and
as per radiological estimation, the age of the victim is above 14
years and below 16 years. The ocular evidence with regards to the
age of the victim is about 15 years. Medical Officer report shown
that victim was undergoing treatment for last 2 years for
psychological condition. Radiological age is below 16 years and
above 14 years and if 2 years is added then also age of the victim
is below 18 years and if 2 years subtracted then she is aged about
12 and if 2 years subtracted from 16 years then she is aged about
14 years and if 2 years is added on either side, then the range is
above 16 years but below 18 years. In both way the ocular and
radiological age of the victim is below 18 years of age.

10. At the time of argument learned counsel submitted that as
per medical report, victim is intelligent. PW-6, is the Medical
officer. In the column of general condition of the victim, it is
mentioned that victim is taking treatment since last 2 years for
some psychological condition under Dr Jayanta Das. PW-12 is the
I/O who has seized documents relating to mental illness of the
victim vide Ext-9. During trial, at the time of filing bail petition for
accused which was filed and moved by present defence counsel,
the bail petitioner Upen Sarma, father of the accused made
statement that the doctor opined that victim is a psychiatric
patient since a long back and is under the treatment of Dr Jayanta
Das, psychiatrist and again stated that victim is psychiatric patient

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 6 of 18
in the bail petition dated 20/05/19 which was numbered as 727/19
and again in the bail petition filed by the same petitioner which
was numbered as petition number 937/19 in para 9 it is stated
that doctor physically examined the victim and opined that victim
is psychiatric patient and again in page 3 sub para 2 of para 9 in
line 18 it is stated that she (victim) is a psychiatric patient that
means victim girl was suffering from some psychological problem
and is undergoing treatment under a psychiatrist and was not
mentally sound at the time of incident is clearly coming out from
the material on record and same is an admitted facts.

11. PW-12, I/O of the case submitted that the victim is suffering
from mental illness. PW-9 stated victim girl was suffering from
mental abnormalities at the time of incident. On perusal of the
seized documents together with the testimonies of M/O with
medical report of the victim girl it is seen that victim girl was
undergoing treatment for her psychological problem under Dr.
Jayashree Das and Dr. Jayanta Das and the statement of the
petitioner Upen Sarma, father of the accused Rituparna Gautam
made in bail petition vide no. 937/19 and 727/19 further
strengthen the prosecution version that victim girl is suffering
from some kind of psychological condition for which she was
undergoing treatment and she was not mentally sound at the time
of incident and prosecution proved the fact that victim girl was
minor and was suffering from mental disorder at the time of

incident.

12. The learned defence counsel made submission that PW-2,
victim in her evidence stated she was not rape and she kissed the
accused. So she is a consenting party to go with the accused. The
fact that victim is a minor girl below the age of 18 years and was
suffering from mental disorder being established and proved,
therefore, the question of consent is immaterial and because of
this fact she may stated in cross that she kissed the accused when
accused told her that he would marry her. But she denied the
suggestion put by defence that “accused did not undress her, not
touched her body, not put his hands inside her panty and not

touched her private parts”. The victim girl in her evidence stated
Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 7 of 18
that on the date of incident she was taken by the accused on his
motorcycle in the field where he undressed her, touched her
whole body, pressed her breast, put his hand into her vagina after
removing her dress and thereafter, accused told her that he
wanted to marry her. Other public noticing the incident took her
and accused to the police station and from police station her
cousin brother Jyoti Kr Sarma took her to her house.

13. The accused in his statement u/s-313 CrPC admitted that he
took the victim to the field. It is also admitted by the accused in
question no. 9 that public took him along with victim Miss ‘X’ on
the question put to him that “public noticing the incident took
victim along with him to the police station.”

14.  PW-7 Arup Baishya @ Pinku stated on the night of incident
while he was sleeping at his house, village people called him as
one bike was abandoned near his house and owner of the bike
was not found. He then came out from his house and made search
for the owner of the bike and preceded towards the graveyard and
at that time he saw accused running away. He called the accused
and accused returned and when he enquired, accused answered
him that he came to the graveyard for no reason. Hearing this he
suspects the accused and again preceded to the graveyard and
found the victim girl in naked condition and he gave her his shirt
to wear. Thereafter, family member of the victim came and
brought the dress for her and then she was made to wear the
dress and she was taken away by the public. On asking, victim
told that she was forcibly taken by accused, undressed her and
committed rape on her.

15. The statement of PW-3 who was the purohit of the marriage
is that while he was in the marriage house performing the rituals
of marriage, he came to know that victim is missing from the
marriage house and she was taken by a boy and after completing
the necessary works of purohit he came to road and noticed both

accused and victim.

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 8 of 18
16. The statement of PW-4 pointed that mother of the victim is
suffering from cancer as such victim stayed at her house
whenever her mother went for treatment and evidence of PW-4,
PW-5, PW-8 and PW-10 pointed that victim was taken by the
accused from the marriage house and there was hue and cry took
place in the marriage house finding her missing in the marriage
house and at the place where victim recovered with the accused is
graveyard near the field. Statement of PW-4 pointed that when
she heard hue and cry she came out from her house, and victim is
her niece and at that time victim is staying at her house and
victim was missing from marriage house and coming to know
about the recovery she reached Janigog Shiva mandir where
accused and victim girl was brought from the place of recovery i.e.
graveyard and noticed both of them and at that time victim girl
was wearing her camisole and someone gave gamocha and some

persons informed police.

17. Her cross examination pointed that victim girl told her that
accused took victim from the marriage house. The statement of
PW-5 Rupanjali Misra also pointed that hearing hue and cry, she
came out and came to know that one boy kidnapped victim and at
that time her another cousin brother Jay Misra over phone asked
her to bring dress for victim to the police station and she went to
the Nalbari PS with dress for the victim and at the police station

she noticed victim was wearing a shirt.

18. The combined reading of statement of PW-7, PW-4, PW-5
pointed that at the time of recovery of victim girl she was not in
well dressed. She was found topless. Pw-7 gave his shirt to wear
which victim put on her body. Pw-4 evidence also pointed that
someone given a gamocha to the victim by which she wrapped on
her chest to cover up her body and Pw-5 evidence pointed when
she went to police station with the dress of victim as asked by her
cousin brother Jay Misra, she found victim was wearing a white
shirt. The combined reading of the statement of PWs together with
the statement of PW-2 the victim of the case, it is seen that
accused took victim to the field before arrival of the groom,

removed her dress, touched her breast, vagina and her body and
Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 9 of 18
the fact that victim was found in the field where she was taken by
the accused in topless condition with the accused has been
established and as victim was found in topless condition PW-7
gave his shirt to cover up her body which she wear and noticed by
PW-5 at police station. Accused was present at the place of
occurrence and Pw-7 noticed him and when he asked him reason
for coming to the graveyard the isolated place he could not give
answer and going a little, victim was found in topless position at
the same place. PW-2 victim in her in-chief and cross stated that
accused removed her dress, touch her body, place his hand on her
vagina and defence failed to distract victim from this part of her
statement and her this piece of evidence is remains unassailable.
The fact that accused removed dress of the victim girl who is
below 18 years and is suffering from psychological problem has
been proved from the combined reading of the statement of
victim with other PWs.

19. PW-8, Nipan Sarma who on the date of incident present on
the marriage house and came out from the marriage house
hearing hue and cry and went to the place where hue and cry was
taking place and on reaching the place that is ‘buragohain than’
where victim girl was brought after she was spotted at graveyard
in a topless condition with accused, he found accused was sitting
on the steps of the ‘burhagohain than’ and also noticed the victim
girl. Villagers called police and police arrived.

20. Pw-9 evidence pointed that victim girl who was suffering
from mental illness when found missing from the marriage house,
they immediately make search for her and enquired about her.
And on that time one boy of their ‘suburi’ told them that accused
took the victim girl on his bike and the guests who were coming to
the marriage noticed one motorcycle near the house of Arup
Baishya and public apprehended one boy and girl in between the
field and graveyard. Arup Baishya is examined as PW-7 and his
statement pointed that some _ villagers finding abandoned
motorcycle near his house called him and he came out and went
towards the field in search of the owner and noticed accused and

on asking the accused he could not give answer for his coming to
Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 10 of 18
graveyard, suspicion draws and PW-7 Arup went ahead to find out
actual facts and Pw-7 found the victim in topless condition and
thereafter, they were brought from the place of recovery to the
Janigog Shiva mandir (buragohainthan). Thereafter, he along with
Munin Sarma Nripen Sarma and some guest of the marriage house
went to the buragohainthan where victim girl and accused was
brought and victim was in half naked condition and they were
brought to the marriage house but as situation turned hostile
police was informed and police took both accused and victim to
police station.

21. In cross, PW-9 stated that he was present when victim was
recovered in the field where from accused and victim were
brought to burahgoainthan shiv mandir and accused was found
wearing a vest and long pant at the time of recovery.

22. PW-10 Jay Kr Misra stated on the date of incident, when he
was standing near the marriage house he heard villagers talking
about accused taking away the victim from the marriage house
and public apprehended the accused with the victim girl while
doing indecent works at Simeli tal and he preceded there and at
that time noticed that accused and victim were brought to
burhagohainthan, but as groom arrived so he returned to the
marriage house. His evidence pointed accused and victim was
brought to police station and victim was accompanied by her
‘mami’ Bharati Misra, PW-4. His cross pointed that he noticed
Hitesh at the place of occurrence and Hitesh came to the
buragohainthan and Hitesh was called by the villgers and Hitesh is
PW-9 of the case.

23. The evidence of PW-11 Munidra Sarma is that while he was
present in marriage house, he heard that niece of Jamini Misra is
missing from the marriage house, they searched for the girl here
and there and at that moment one boy informed that villagers
caught one boy and girl near the house of Arup Baishya.
Accordingly, he went to the place where victim girl was recovered
in half naked condition with accused Rituparna Gautam. His cross
pointed that he went to the place of occurrence along with Hitesh.

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 11 of 18
24. The reading of the statement of PW-11 and PW-9 pointed
both went together to the place of occurrence where villagers
spotted and apprehend the victim as well as accused. The
presence of Pw-9 at place of occurrence is stated by Pw-10 who
went to the buragohain than after Pw-9 and Pw-11 when victim
and accused was brought to buragohain than by the villager after
their recovery at the graveyard and field near the house of Pw-7.
The field and graveyard is near to each other and house of Pw-7 is
near the place of occurrence where villager spotted one owner
less motorcycle.

25. Pw-7 evidence pointed that the villagers called him when
abandoned owner less bike was parked near his house and while
searching the owner of the said bike that belonged to accused, he
noticed accused and found the victim girl. The place where victim
and accused were present is a graveyard and one field. The
statement of PW-9, PW-8 and PW-11 pointed that when they find
out the victim is missing who was minor and suffering from
psychological problem they enquired about the girl and made
search for her and during that time one village boy informed that
some villagers apprehend one boy and girl. Immediately, they
went to the place where villager apprehend the boy and girl riding
one their bike. The distance being short distance they reached
fast.

26. The statement of PW-10 and PW-11 pointed that they went
to the place of recovery. Pw-8, 9, 11 evidence pointed that when
they reached the place where the accused and victim was
recovered, they found victim in topless condition. PW-7 spot the
accused first and then victim was spotted. Victim was brought to
the place by the accused.

27. Pw-9 evidence pointed he asked a shirt to cover up the girl
body and one boy gave a shirt and said boy is PW-7. The spotting
of the victim with accused in the field at night, victim found
topless, to cover up her body Pw-7 gave his shirt, someone gave
gamocha and then Pw-5 brought dress for the girl at the PS are all

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 12 of 18
corroborated statement and same is established from the

statement of witnesses.

28. Victim was medically examined by PW-6 on 20/04/19 and
before her medical examination she was brought to police station
from the place of her recovery and medical examination report
show no recent sexual intercourse or assault. PW-2 victim stated
she was not raped by accused but she stated accused touched her
breast, body, placed his hand on her vagina and this piece of
statement of PW-2 is unassailable, remains intact and | have
accepted the same.

29. Sexual assault is defined in section 7 of the POCSO
Act which is quoted below: “ Whoever, with sexual intent
touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the
child to touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or
any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which
involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit

sexual assault.”

30. Section 9 of the POCSO Act defined aggravated
sexual assault and clause 9 (k) are defined as:

“ (k) Whoever, taking advantage of a child's mental or physical
disability, commits sexual assault on the child.“

31. Section 3 of the POCSO Act relates with penetrative sexual
assault and section 4 is the penal provision for section 3. Section 5
of the POCSO Act says aggravated penetrative sexual assault and
section 6 is the penal provision for section 5 of the POCSO Act.

32. The victim girl in her evidence stated that accused after
removing her dress put his hands into her vagina, touch her breast
and whole body. The victim is a minor and she was suffering from
mental disability for which she was undergoing treatment under
consultant psychiatric. The statement of victim clearly pointed
that she was sexually abused by the accused and defence failed to
assail her this piece of testimonies and her evidence together with

the statement of other PWs that she was found topless, accused
Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 13 of 18
took victim to the graveyard at night all goes against the accused
and summation of the evidence on record pointed that accused
sexually assaulted the victim which is covered by the ingredient of
section 7 and 9 (k) of the POCSO Act.

33. The victim girl being suffering from mental disability that is
to say some kind of psychological problem for which she was
undergoing treatment is covered by section 9 (k) which is
punishable under 10 of the POCSO act.

34. From the foregoing discussion | come to my considerate
finding that victim was a minor at the time of incident and
accused took her to the field where he touches her vagina, breast,
remove her cloth and that pointed the sexual intent of the
accused. Though in the case in hand offence u/s 6 POCSO Act is
not proved against the accused however, offence u/s-9 of the
POCSO Act which is punishable u/s-10 of the POCSO Act has been
proved and fully established against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt.

35. Section 6 of the POCSO Act is an act of committing
aggravated penetrative sexual assault and maximum punishment
prescribed is imprisonment for life but which shall not be less then
7 years. Section 10 of the POCSO Act is an act of aggravated
sexual assault and maximum punishment prescribed is seven
years imprisonment and with fine and which shall not be less than
5 years.

36. Situated thus, | find that provision of sec 222 Cr.P.C is
applicable in the case in hand to render justice to the victim of the
case and same will not miscarriage the due procedure of law and
there will not be any vitiation of proceeding and miscarriage of
justice will not be done to accused also because offence u/s-10 of
the POCSO Act is a minor offence and when material on record
constituted a minor offence of which charge has not been framed
by the Court, Court can convict the accused in minor offence if
evidence on record constituted one minor offence of which charge

has not been framed, followed decision of Tarkeshwar Sahu Vs

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 14 of 18
State of Bihar (2006) 8 SCC. Hon’ble Apex court in a catena of
decision held that-‘It is true that section 222 Cr.P.C entitles a
Court to convict a person of an offence which is minor in

comparison to the one for which he is tried.’

37. Section 222 Cr.P.C is quoted below:- “When offence proved
included in offence charged- (1) When a person is charged with an
offence consisting of several particulars, a combination of some
only of which constitutes a complete minor offence, and such
combination is proved, but the remaining particulars are not
proved, he may be convicted of the minor offence, though he was
not charged with it.

(2) When a person is charged with an offence and facts are proved
which reduces it to a minor offence, he may be convicted of the
minor offence, although he is not charged with it.

(3) When a person is charged with an offence, he may be
convicted of an attempt to commit such offence although the
attempt is not separately charged.

(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorize a
conviction of any minor offence where conclusions requisite for
the initiation of proceeding in respect of that minor offence have
not been satisfied.”

38. Upon perusal of the evidence on record and ingredient of
section 6 of the POCSO Act, | am of the considered opinion that
section 10 of the POCSO Act is the minor offence and ingredient of
section 10 of the POCSO Act has been fully satisfied in this case
against the accused Rituparna Gautam and | have applied the
provision of section 222 Cr.P.C. From the evidence on record |
found accused Rituparna Gautam is guilty of offence punishable
u/s-10 of the POCSO Act and accordingly | hold accused Rituparna
Gautam guilty of offence u/s-10 of the POCSO Act and | convict
accused Rituparna Gautam u/s-10 of the POCSO Act. His bail
stands cancelled.

39. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and
nature of the offence committed by the convicted accused
Rituparna Gautam, which is sexual assault on a child, the benefit

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 15 of 18
of Probation of Offender Act or section 360 I.P.C. is not applicable.
Accordingly, convicted accused Rituparna Gautam is heard on the
point of sentence.

HEARING ON SENTENCE

40. | have heard accused and his counsel and prosecution side
on the point of sentence. Accused pleaded mercy and his sen-
tence is written in a separate sheet enclosed with the case record.
Learned defence counsel made submission there is a discrepancy
on the evidence of victim and age stated by the victim in her cross
examination and the age as per the statement of other PWs and
radiological evidence the order of conviction is required to be con-
doned and considering the age of the accused being a young boy
aged 28 years, he may be treated leniently. Ld. Special P.P
submits that accused be sentenced in accordance with law.

ORDER

41. After going through the entire case record, | find that in this
case victim is not only a minor but she was suffering from mental
illness which is evident from the record and from the statement of
the bail petitioner, who is the father of the accused. After scrutiny
of entire record | am of the opinion that it is the accused who first
moved the girl from the marriage house and then sexually as-
saulted her by taking her in an isolated place and therefore ac-
cused does not deserve any leniency. Accordingly, | sentence ac-
cused Rituparna Gautam to undergo R/I for 7 (seven) years and to
pay fine of Rs. 10,000/-, in default, R/I for another 6 (six) months
for committing offence u/s- 10 of the POCSO Act.

42. Period under detention is set off u/s 428 Cr.P.C. Let furnish
free copy of Judgment to convicted accused Rituparna Gautam.

43. The convicted accused is told that he has right to prefer ap-
peal against the judgment and order of conviction and sentence
before the Hon'ble High Court of his own, through jail or through
the legal aid counsel.

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 16 of 18
44. Seized articles vide MR No. 149/2019 and MR No. 150/2019
be returned to the owner and disposed of in accordance with law.

45. Send copy of judgment to learned District Magistrate
Nalbari u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 15" day of
November, 2019 at Nalbari, District- Nalbari.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Nalbari
Dictated and Corrected by me,

(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Nalbari.

Typed by,
Biswajit Bhattacharjya
Copyist

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 17 of 18
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witnesses
PW-1, Jyoti Kr. Sarma (informant),
PW-2, Miss 'X' (victim),
PW-3, Prafulla Misra,
PW-4, Bharati Misra,
PW-5, Rupanjali Misra,
PW-6, Dr. Urmi Devi Choudhury (M/O),
PW-7, Arup Baishya @ Pinku,
PW-8, Nipan Sarma,
PW-9, Hitesh Talukdar,
PW-10, Joy Kr. Misra,
PW-11, Munindra Sarma,
PW-12, Mridul Bhagawati, IO of the case.

B. Defence witness
NIL

C. Prosecution Exhibits
Ext-1, ejahar,
Ext-2, statement of victim u/s-164 CrPC,
Ext-3 Medical report,
Ext-4, consent report of victim for medical examination,
Ext-5, report of USG,
Ext-6, report of vaginal swab done at SMK Civil Hospital,
Nalbari,
Ext-7, X-ray report,
Ext-8, seizure list,
Ext-9, seizure list,
Ext-10, seizure list,
Ext-11, sketch map
Ext-12, charge sheet.

D. Defence Exhibit
NIL

(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Nalbari

Spl (P) Case No: 20/19 18 of 18
