Page 1 of 18

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

07 OF 2015
(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 142 of
2015)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Souna Tete
Son of Lokus Tete,
Resident of Koloni Tea Estate
Police Station — Rangapara
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam

06/05/2015
30/05/2015, 26/06/2015,
24/07/2015, 19/09/2015,

10/06//2016, 30/06/2016
27/09/2016,

25/07/2016.

05/11/2016.

11/11/2016.

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. R.R. Kalita., Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Souna Tete is put for trial for allegation of charge under
Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

 
Page 2 of 18

2. The factual matrix of the case in brief is that on or about 6 P.M. of
18/1/2015 accused enticing informant’s minor daughter Smt. Bhabani Karmakar

to his home and committed rape on her. Hence this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the complainant Sri. Bipul Karmakar before the
O.C Rangapara P.S on 18/01/2015 and on received the izhar the O.C
Rangapara P.S. registered the case vide Rangapara P.S. Case No. 13/2015
under Section 366 (A)/ 376 (2) (1) of the IPC. After completion of usual
investigation, the I.O sent up the case for trial against the accused person by
filing charge sheet under Section 4/6 of the POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, my learned
predecessor-in-Court, after hearing both parties, framed charge under section 6
of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused and particulars of the charge was read
over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not guilty and claims to be
tried.

5; To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 10 (ten)
numbers of witnesses which includes the informant, victim, other material

witnesses and the Investigating Officer.

6. After completion of prosecution evidence accused is examined u/s 313
Cr.P.C. All the allegation made against the accused and evidence appears
against the accused are put before him for explanation where he deny the
evidence and allegation. To butters the defence is accused is examined one

defence evidence.

7. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of both
sides.
8. The point for decision in this case is that:

1. Whether on about 6 p.m. of 18/01/2015 at Colony Tea Estate on
new staff line under Rangapara P.S. accused committed penetrative

sexual assault on Smt. Bhabani Karmakar (aged about 6 years.)?

 
Page 3 of 18

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.
9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on
record.

10. PW- 1 (Miss- X), the victim of this case stated that at about 3 months
ago one day at about 6 p.m. she went to accused house to watch TV. She used
to call accused as “phupha” . Accused was sitting on bed and she was asked to
sat on his lap. The accused open his pant and done “Choda-Chodi” with her by
opening her pant. Nobody was there. She told everything to her sister Laxmi.
She was crying. She told her parent about the incident. Her father went to
beat Souna. Thereafter she was taken to Police Station. She was also brought
to Court. Her statement was recorded by the Magistrate. She was examined by

doctor at Tezpur, Hospital.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination, the evidence
as to at the relevant time while she went to watch TV, accused called her to sit
on his lap, open her pant and done sexual intercourse with her has remained

unchallenged.

11. PW-2 Bipul Karmakar has stated accused is his brother-in-law who is
lives infront of his home. The victim, a 6 years old girl is his daughter. About 5
months ago, in the evenging at about 6 p.m. he was in his house. His daughter
Bhabani went to the house of accused to watch TV. After sometime she came
back with her elder daughter. She told him that accused open his clothes and
also open clothes of his daughter put her to sit on lap and told him that
accused sexual intercourse her. Thereafter, she took to his daughter to
Rangapara P.S and lodged an F.I.R. The F.I.R was written by someone else , he
put his thumb impression. Thereafter he took his daughter to the hospital. Then
her daughter was brought to Court and after recording her statement her
custody was given to him.

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination the evidence as
to relevant time his victim daughter came from the house of accused, watching
TV, reported him that the accused put her to sit on his lap and sexual

intercourse her has remained unchallenged.

 
Page 4 of 18

12. PW-3 Radhika Karmakar stated he know the accused who is his brother-
in-law. The victim who was a 6 years old her daughter. The incident took place
on a day at about 6 p.m. in one month back. She was in her house. Her
daughter went to accused house to watch TV. After sometime her daughter
came back crying along with Laxmi. When she asked her what happened, she
told her that accused open her pant and his pant and done sexual intercourse
with her after taking her on his lap. She went to the house of the accused and
when she ask him he admitted his guilt. Thereafter they went to Rangapara
Police Station.

In her cross-examination except giving some suggestion the evidence as
to at the relevant time the victim after arrival from accused house reported her
that accused open her pant and his pant and done sexual intercourse with her

after taking her on his lap has remained unchallenged.

13. PW-4 Dr. Sangeeta Sarma stated before the Court that on 19/01/2015
he working as Medical & Health Officer-1 in the Kanaklata Ciivil Hospital, Tezpur
and on that day at about 1.40 p.m at Emergency OPD, in the labour room
complex of KCH he examined Smt Bhabani Karmakar, 6 years, female D/O Bipul
Karmakar of village Kolony Tea Estate, New Line, PS Rangapara, escorted and
identified by Woman Police Constable 610 Anju Moni Dutta of Rangapara P.S.
She was examined in presence of staff Nurse Mrs. Manjula Devi. On
examination she found the following.

Menstrual history- not attained menarche. Exposure history- Exposure
present on 18/01/15 at about 6 p.m to Sauna Munda as told by her attendant.

Identification mark- a small mole over right eye Browe.

Height- 100 cm., Weight- 15 Kg, Teeth- 6/6, 6/6 mixed dentition.

At the time of examination, she was netly dressed, clean and tidy. Her
gait was normal, secondary sexual characters not developed. Hymen present.
Vulva and vagina healthy. No injury seen on her private as well as other body
parts.

Investigation advised and reports-

1. Vaginal smear for spermatozoa — no sperm.
2. USG Pelvis- normal pelvic organs- Non gravid uterus.

 
Page 5 of 18

3. X-ray for age determination- Age of the persons under investigation is
below 10 years.
OPINION:
1. No sign and symptom of recent sexual intercourse.
2. No injury observed on her private as well as other body parts.
3. Age of the victim is below 10 years.
Enclosure:
1. OPD registration Card wherein investigation given are present along with
the consent in written.
Vaginal smear for spermatozoa report.
USG film,
USG and X-ray report
X-ray plate.

1 of be he

During cross-examination, the doctor stated that in her personal
examination the victim, she found no sign of recent sexual intercourse or any

injury observed on her private as well as other body parts.

14. PW- 5 Smt Seema Karmakar stated that she know accused but she do
not know his name. The victim is her niece. At about 2/3 months ago, the
incident occurred in the evening at about 6 p.m. She heard a hue and cry
near the house of Souna. Then, she went to the house of Souna. When she
went to the house of Bipul Karmakar, victim came there and told that she has

been subjected to sexual intercourse by the accused.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination, the
evidence as to on hearing commotion, she went to the house of the
complainant, the victim came there and told that she has been subjected to

sexual intercourse has remained unchallenged.

15. PW-6 Sri Sanjay Karmakar stated that he know the accused Souna.
The victim is his niece. The incident occurred in the month of January, 2015 in
the evening at about 6 p.m. When he reached his house, Laxmi Karmakar
told him that the victim has been raped by Souna. Thereafter, he went to the
house of his elder brother Bipual Karmakar. There he met Lakhmi, victim

and Souna. Victim also told him that Souna raped her.

 
Page 6 of 18

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination the evidence as
to at the relevant time on hearing about the incident from Lakhmi he went to
the house of his elder brother Bipual Karmakar there he meet Lakhmi, victim
and Souna and the victim told him that accused raped her has remained

unchallenged.

16. PW- 7 Harimohan Nayak stated he know the accused Souna. The
victim is known to him. The incident occurred in the month of January, 2015.
On the day of occurrence, he went to picnic. After returning from picnic he
heard hue and cry in the house of accused Souna. He went to his house. He
did not found the accused in the house. There he came to know from the

people that Souna has committed rape on the victim Bhabani Karmakar.

17. PW- 8 Sri Hemanta @ Henta Chante stated that he know accused
Souna and victim. The incident occurred in the month of January, 2015 at
about 6 p.m. On the day of occurrence, he was at home. He heard hue and
cry in the house of accused Souna. He went to his house. There he came to

know from the people that accused has committed rape on the victim.

18. PW- 9 Sri Dipak Das, the I.0, stated that on 18/01/2015 he was
posted at Rangapara Police station as attached officer. On that day, one Bipul
Karmakar lodged an FIR alleging that on that day at about 6 p.m. his
daughter Bhabani Karmakar, aged about 6 years, was raped by the accused in
his house. After receiving the FIR O/C of Rangapara PS registered a case
being Rangapara PS No. 13/2015 u/s 366 A/376(2) (1) IPC and endorsed him
for investigation. Ext. 6 is the FIR and Ext. 6 (1) is the signature of O/C Ajijur
Rahman. Then he visited the place of occurrence and prepared a sketch map
thereon. He brought the accused to the police station and interrogated him.
He was detained in the police station. Ext. 7 is the sketch map and Ext. 7(1) is
his signature. After arrest, the accused was forwarded to the court on
19/01/2015. He had also sent the victim girl for medical examination and also

to the court for recording her statement before the Magistrate on the same

 
Page 7 of 18

day. Thereafter he filed the charge sheet against the accused. Ext. 8 is the
charge sheet and Ext. 8(1) is his signature.

19. | PW-10 M. Sharma, the learned Magistrate who recorded the statement
of victim under Section 164 Cr.P.C stated on 19/01/2015 while she was
working as JMFC at Tezpur she had recorded the statement of victim,
daughter of Bipul Karmakar at the requisition of Rangapara P.S. in connection
with Rangapara P.S. Case No. 13/15 376 (2) (1) IPC. Since the victim was 6
years old minor so she was not administered oath. She was satisfied that the
victim understood the questions which she had asked her. Then she recorded
her statement. Ext. 6 is the statement of victim and Ext. 6(1) is his signature.
Since the victim was minor her thumb impression or signature are not taken in

the statement.

20. The defence witness, DW-1 Ichi Nowrai Alias @ Tete stated that
accused Bipul Karmakar filed a case against her husband for allegation of
committing rape on his daughter. The incident took place about 1 1% years
back. At the time of incident, she was at her home in the kitchen cutting
“Sangji”. It was winter season. At that time, the victim came to their house to
watch TV. Her house is situated infront of their house. During that time she
was mopping the floor with mud and the victim has just entered and wants to
sit in their floor, but it was wet with mud so she asked loudly not to sit there.
Immediately her husband picked her up and her pant was put off automatically
due to lose string of her panty. Then victim’s elder sister Laxmi who has also
came to their home to watch TV took her to their home. Then Bipul, father of
the victim, came to their house and assaulted her husband and also had took
altercation with her, so he asked him that she will lodge a complaint before the

police against her, then Bipul filed the case against her husband falsely.

In cross-examination, the DW admitted that though the father of the victim
assaulted with fist and blow but she has not seen any external injury upon her

husband. Her husband was not medically examined. Except, herself, her

 
Page 8 of 18

husband and the victim, nobody was present at the time of occurrence. The

incident took place at about 6 p.m. By that time, to dark was set in.

21. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case.

22. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the case was filed by
the complainant on a baseless, concocted story against the accused. The victim
is the neighbour of the accused. The victim quite off and on used to visit the
house of the accused to watch TV. On the day of incident the wife of the victim
mopping the floor by mud. The victim came to watch TV hastily so, the wife
raised alarm to her. Accused took her to the bed to avoid skidding. Then
victim’s pant was put off automatically due to loose string of her panty. Then,
victim's elder sister Laxmi who has also came to their home to watch TV took
her to their home. Then the father of the victim came to their home and
assaulted the accused and then the victim’s father filed this case against the
accused falsely, which was ably supported by the defence evidence. That apart,
the doctor’s certificate noway supported the alleged charge. Despite that

prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt.

23. On the other hand, learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond all shadow of
doubt, as such required to be convicted under the said section of law. Learned
PP also submitted that in fact there is no enmity in between the accused and
the complainant to file a false case. Even if there is any strange relation
between the parties, it would not be expected from the complainant to involve

his own minor daughter in such a hatred cases.

Learned PP again submitted that PWs 2 and 3, the father and mother of
the victim, therefore, they are interested witnesses. To rely the interested
witnesses in convicting the accused, learned PP submitted the case of Gali
Venkataiah Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh reported in 2008 Crl.L.J. 690.
In regard to minor discrepancies, learned PP also submitted the case law of
State of UP V. Krishna Master & ors reported in 2010 Crl.L.J.3889.

 
Page 9 of 18

24. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the learned

counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

25. After going through the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses, it is seen
except the victim, there is no eye witness to the incident, but after the incident,
the victim came out of her house and informed about the incident to her

parents which was corroborated by them.

According to PW 2 and PW 3, the mother and the father of the victim,
they were reported by their minor daughter immediately after the incident. PW
1, the victim also stated that at the relevant time she went to accused’s house
to watch TV. The accused was sitting on bed and she sat on his lap. The
accused opened her pant and sexually intercourse with her. Nobody was there.
She told everything to her sister. She also told her mother and father about the
incident. Though all the PWs 1,2 and 3 were exposed to long cross-examination
but defence has failed to examine any one of them that immediately after the

incident, the victim reported about the matter to her father and mother.

26. Learned counsel for the accused argued that the victim is a minor girl
and changed her version in different times, before the police, before the
Magistrate and even in the Court whose statement cannot be considered to

convict the accused.

27. It is true that in the present case there is no documents like Birth
certificate or age certificate or any certificate issued by the School authority
where the victim last studied or any certificate issued by local Panchayat etc.
available on the record to prove the victim that she was 6 years at the time of
incident. But the PW 4, the Doctor who examined the victim after the incident
opined that the age of the victim girl is below 10 years. That has not been
challenged by the defence at any point of time. Therefore, it can safely be held

that the victim was a minor.

28. Inthe case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State, represented by the
Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD) No.98 of 2015, it was held that it
is true that primary evidence to prove the date of birth of the individual may be

preferably the birth certificate. But, it cannot be said that in absence of birth

 
Page 10 of 18

certificate, the date of birth cannot be proved. When the age of the individual is
not disputed, the question of proving the same does not arise at all. It is the
settled law that a fact in issue or any relevant fact or any fact relevant to the
issue, which is disputed by the adverse party alone, needs proof. If it is not
disputed, there is no need to lead any evidence in proof of the said admitted

fact.

29. In this case, the victim and her parents categorically stated the age of
the victim as 6 years from the very beginning of the case, at the time of
commission of offence, besides during cross-examination, the same has not
been disputed at all by the accused side. Thus, the evidence of PWs 1, 2 and 3

in respect of age of the victim remains unchallenged.

30. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the material
particulars with regard to the incident that on the day of incident, she went to
the house of the accused to watch TV. She was asked to sit by the accused on
his lap. Then the accused opened her pant and sexually intercourse with her.
Nobody was there. Immediately after the incident she told everything to her
sister Laxmi. She also told her mother and father about the incident after
coming to her home. Then her father went to beat the accused. The victim also
made such statement before the learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and before
the police and even in the time of deposition before this court. Though she has
been vigorously cross-examined but the evidence as to the accused called her
to watch TV and she was sat on the lap of the accused and the accused opened
her pant and committed sexual intercourse on her has remained unchallenged.
The evidence of victim is cogent and reliable. There cannot be any doubt to

disbelieve the evidence of the victim.

31. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of accused is
not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered much as
prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of all reasonable

doubts. However, in a case under POCSO Act, the situation is not so. In this

 
Page 11 of 18

regard, it will be worthwhile to refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30 of
POCSO Act.

32. U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain offences
and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may be,

unless the contrary is proved.

33. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special Court shall
draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state of the accused
where culpable mental state is required on the part of the accused. Section 30
reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any prosecution for
any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of
the accused, the Special Court shall presume that existence of such mental
state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no
such mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that
prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved only
when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not

merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probabilities.

34. The use of expression “shall presume” has been defined in Section 4 of
the Indian Evidence Act. As contrasted from the expression “if presume”, the
expression “shall presume” whenever used connotes “legal presumption” or
“compulsory presumption” as contrasted from “factual presumption” or
“discretionary presumption” emanating from the expression “may presume”.
“Legal presumptions” or “compulsory presumption” as are signified by the use

of expression “shall presume” are inferences or proposition established by law,

 
Page 12 of 18

which the law peremptorily requires to be made whenever the facts appear
which it assumes as the basis of that inference. The presumptions of law are in
reality rules of law, and part of the law itself and the court may draw inference

whenever the requisite facts are developed in pleadings.

35. Similarly whenever any law prescribes that the Court shall presume the
existence of culpable mandatory state or to draw a presumption regarding
commission of any offence, unless the contrary is proved, the onus to prove the
contrary undoubtedly shifts upon the accused. Certainly, it does not discharge
the prosecution of its duty to first establish and prove the facts, the existence
of which can only lead to drawing of any such compulsory presumption or legal
presumption by the use of the expression “shall presume”. Thus, as per Section
29, if a person is prosecuted for committing or abating or attempting to commit
any offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and 9 of POCSO Act, the Special Court shall presume
that such person has committed or abated or attempted to commit the said
offence as the case may be unless the contrary is proved. However, in the
present case, the accused has completely failed in discharging his burden even

by preponderance of probabilities much less beyond reasonable doubt.

36. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be recorded on the
sole testimony of a child witness or not? This issue was dealt by the Hon’ble
Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are
reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On the contrary,
Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may testify — all persons
shall be competent to testify unless the Court considers that they are prevented
from understanding the questions put to them, or from giving rational answers
to those questions, by tender years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body

or mind, or any other cause of the same kind.”

37. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has

intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational answers thereto.

 
Page 13 of 18

The evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected per se, but the
Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with close scrutiny and
only on being convinced about the quality thereof and reliability can record

conviction, based thereon.

38. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra, (1997) 5
SCC 341, it was held that a child witness if found competent to depose to the
facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other
words, even in the absence of oath the evidence of a child witness can be
considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to
understand the questions and able to give rational answer thereof. The
evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the
circumstances of each case. The only precaution which the Court should bear in
mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be
a reliable one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent witness

and there is no likelihood of being tutored.

39. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs — State of
Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on the question
whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence primarily rests with the trial
Judge who notices his manners, his apparent possessions or lack of intelligence,
and the said Judge may resort to any examination which will tend to disclose
his capacity and intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an
oath.

40. In the present case, at the time of examination of the victim, some
questions were put to her and she replied the same without any hesitation and
this Court hold that the victim was able to give rational answers and thereafter
her statement was recorded without oath. Apart from that, other witnesses
including the parents of the victim i.e. PW 2 and 3 also supported the evidence
of PW1. Besides them, PW 5 also stated that at the relevant time on hearing
hue and cry near the house of the accused, while she went there the victim

also came there and told that she has been subjected to sexual intercourse.

 
Page 14 of 18

Similarly, PW 6 Sanjay Karmakar also stated that on being came to know about
the incident, he went to the house of the complainant and there he met Laxmi,
victim and the accused where the victim also told him that accused committed
rape on her. Therefore, it is not only, the PW 2 and 3, the father and mother of
the victim, but PW 5 and 6 also stated clearly that the victim stated to them
that the accused has committed rape on her. There is nothing in the cross-
examination of any of the prosecution witnesses which could suggest that they
were deposing falsely in any manner. Though they have been subjected to
various suggestions, but all the said witnesses vehemently denied.

Here in the present case as discussed above, the victim immediately
after the incident reported the matter to Laxmi, her elder sister and then at
home she reported the matter to her father and mother. It is true that the
prosecution has failed to examine Laxmi, the elder sister of the victim to whom
the victim first reported the matter.

In this case, I may mention a case law i.e. Md. Khalid Vs. State of
West Bengal reported in 2002 SCC Cri. 1734. It has been held that
"Normally, the prosecution’s duty is to examine all the eye witnesses, the
selection of whom has to be made with due care, honestly and fairly. The
witnesses have to be selected with a view not to suppress any honest opinion,
and due care has to be taken that in selction of witnesses, no adverse inference
is drawn against the prosecution, However, no general rule can be laid down
that each and every witness has to be examined even though his testimony
may or may not be material. the most important factor for the prosecution
being that all those witnesses strengthening the case of the prosecution have to
be examined, the prosecution can pick and choose the witnesses who are
considered to be relevant and material for the purpose of unfolding the case
the prosecution. It is not the quantity but the quality of the evidence that Is
important. In the case at hand, if the prosecution felt that its case has been
well established through the witnesses examined, it cannot be said that non-

examination of some persons rendered its version vulnerable. ”

41. Coming to the present case, it appears that according to the

prosecution story immediately after the incident, the victim has reported the

 
Page 15 of 18

matter only to her elder sister Laxmi and also her mother and father i.e. PW 2
and 3. Similarly, while the victim stated the matter to other persons i.e. PW 4
and 5 also heard. Therefore, when there is other convincible and reliable
witnesses, SO non-examination of Laxmi cannot be a ground to discard the
prosecution story. It is true that the accused has examined one DW i.e. through
his wife who has deposed a quite different story. The story narrated by DW 1
has not been in cross-examination of any of the witnesses. So, this is a new
plea adduced by the wife of the accused only to save her husband from the
punishment. Further, DW has appeared not on summons. She was brought by
the accused. Therefore, it cannot be ruled out that the defence witness has
deposed falsely in order to save the accused who is her husband. Hence, not
reliable.

42. On appreciation of the evidence given by the victim, her parents
and other independent witnesses, I find that the victim was sexually assaulted
by the accused. It appears that the medical evidence no way supported the
materials of the penetrative sexual assault, as the Doctor stated no injury found
on the private parts of the victim and also on any part of the body. Here in the
present case the victim is below ten years old at the time of occurrence.
According to Section 9 (m) aggravated sexual assault whoever commits sexual
assault on a child below twelve years. Section 10 of POCSO Act prescribes the
punishment for the offence defined u/s.9 for a term which shall not be less than
five years but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to a
fine. Hence, I convict the accused Souna Tete U/s 10 of the POCSO Act.

43. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he praying for
leniency stating that he is the only bread earner of his family having one new
born baby and wife. At the time of investigation he was in jail for about 6

months, hence praying for leniency.

44. I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well as learned Public

Prosecutor, Sonitpur.

 
Page 16 of 18

45. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that while
deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court should strike
a balance between aggravating circumstances and mitigating circumstances.
The aggravating circumstances relate to the crime and mitigating circumstances
relate to the criminal. In this case, so far as the aggravating circumstances are
concerned, a minor girl was sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is
not only to the body but also to the mind of not only to the victim but that of
entire family members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the
accused was hardly 26 years of age at the time of the incident. It is not brought
to the notice of this Court that before this incident, the accused had committed
any other offence. There is likelihood of his reformation, but the statute u/s.10
of POCSO Act prescribes minimum punishment for a term of five years with
fine. When the intention of the legislator is to impose stringent punishment for
not less than five years, this court has no option but to impose minimum
punishment of five years.
ORDER

46. I convict the accused Souna Tete u/s. 10 of POCSO Act and
sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 5 (Five) years and also to pay a
fine of Rs.500/- (Rupees Five Hundred only), in default, Rigorous Imprisonment
for one month. The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from

the period of imprisonment, imposed on him.

47. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement of
witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To mitigating
the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an amount of Rs. 25,000/-
(Rupees twenty five thousand) only is awarded as compensation. The
Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to

give the compensation to the father of the victim after proper enquiry.

 
Page 17 of 18

48. A copy of this judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost
and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur, as per

provisions of law.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 11" day
of November, 2016.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
RO ONAUARWNE

Page 18 of 18

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 =
Prosecution Witness No.2 =
Prosecution Witness No.3 i-
Prosecution Witness No.4 =
Prosecution Witness No.5 =
Prosecution Witness No.6 i-
Prosecution Witness No.7 i=
Prosecution Witness No.8 i-
Prosecution Witness No.9 :-
Prosecution Witness No.10 ‘=

Exhibit 1,2,3, 4 and 5

Exhibit 6
Exhibit 7
Exhibit 8
Exhibit 9

1. Smt. Ichi Nowria @ Tete.

Victim.

Sri Bipul Karmakar

Smt. Radhika Karmakar
Dr. Sangeeta Sarma, M.O.
Smt. Seema Karmakar

Sri Sanjay Karmakar

Sri Harimohan Nayak

Sri Hemanta Chante

Sri Dipak Das, I.O.

Smt. M. Sharma, Judicial Magistrate,1*
class, Tezpur.

EXHIBITS.

- Advice slip, vaginal smear report, USG

flim, USG report and X-ray report and
Medical report.

~ Ejahar

' Sketch map

- Chargesheet.

- Statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

Defence witness.

: DW 1.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
