 

State
- Versus -

Saidur Rehman Barbhutya ews ve» Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

     

For the State .. Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.

For the accused person . Smti. N. Debnath, Ld. Advocate.

Date of recording evidence 29.09.2018.

Date of recording statement u/s 313,crPeC :- 04.10.2018.

Date of Argument - 04,10.2018.

Date of Judgment ‘ 04.10.2018.
JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 29.01.2018

the informant cum victim lodged an ejahar with the O/C, Katlicherra
Police Station alleging that her father i.e. the accused Saidur Rehman with

N) 8 - a view to marry another woman of their neighboring area, assaulted her
\0- mother and drove her away from his home after giving talak. On
gh yr 37.01.2018 at about 4 PM the accused pressurized the victim to bring the
ee Contd....P/2.
Special (POCSO)(T 1) Case No, 02/2018,

Oaks

said woman but she did not listen the accused, rather, she raised protest
and on the following night at about 2 AM the accused, putting the victim
under the fear of death, committed rape on her.

Be On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as
Katlicherra Police Station case No. 21/2018 under Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act
and during investigation, police visited the place of occurrence, drew up
rough sketch map thereof, recorded statements of witnesses, got the
victim medically examined and also got her statement recorded under
Sec. 164, CPC and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against the accused person Saidur Rehman Barbhuiya under Sec. 4
of the POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of accused person Saidur Rehman
Barbhuiya, copies of relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC
were furnished to him.

4. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record,
having found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person
has committed the offence, the formal charges have been framed
against the accused person Saidur Rehman Barbhuiya under Sec. 376 of
the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. The charges so framed were
read over and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined only
the victim cum informant of the case. Thereafter, on submission of Ld.
Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence Counsel, the prosecution evidence
was closed. The accused person is examined under Sec. 313, CrPC,
wherein he has denied the allegations levelled against him by the
prosecution. The defence did not adduce any evidence.

Contd....P/3.
Special (POCSO){T 1) Case No, 02/2018,

aon
6. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.
7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused person in the intervening
night of 27.01.2018 and 28.01.2018 at about 2 AM committed rape upon

the victim cum informant, as alleged?
(ii} Whether the accused person committed

penetrative sexual assaulted upon the victim cum informant, as alleged?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :-
8. The PW. 1, Rumana Begum Barbhuiya, the victim cum
informant, has deposed that in the month of January,2018 his father, the
accused, drove out her mother from his house assaulting her very brutally
and thereafter, she and her mother went to Katlicherra Police Station and
consulted a Clerk, who prepared the FIR and asked her to state before
Magistrate and Police accordingly and to resolve the difference between
her parents, she filed the case. Ext. 1 is the FIR lodged by her and Ext.
1(1) is her signature. Her statement was recorded by Magistrate vide ext.2
and Exts. 2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures. She was medically examined.
The victim has further deposed that her father is innocent and he is a very
good person and due to misunderstanding, the case was filed and she has
got no allegation against her father.

In cross examination, she has stated that at the
relevant time, she was aged 18 years old.

= 9. In the instant case, the only witness |.e. the victim
\V © cum informant in her evidence, being the star witness, has made the fact
J ° clear that on the relevant day her father drove out her mother after
assaulting her brutally and thereafter, she and her mother went to

ie

yon? |

aPRCN AND! Katticherra PS and she lodge the case only to resolve the difference
Bi

Contd....P/4.
Special (POCSO)T 1) Case No. 02/2018.
-4-

between her parents and thereafter, she made statement before
Magistrate on being tutored. That apart, the victim has vividly stated that
her father, the accused, is innocent and he is a very good person and she
has got no allegation against her father. The victim has not implicated her
father in the evidence, rather, she has given clean chit to her father, the
accused, stating that only to resolve the different between her mother and
father, she field the case, 1 do not find any concrete reason to hold the
accused person guilty for commission of the offence, alleged.

10. Accordingly, it can be safely held that the prosecution
failed to prove its case against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubt.

11. The accused person Saidur Rehman Barbhuiya is

acquitted of the offence charged under Sec. 376 of IPC read with Sec. 4 of
the POCSO Act. Set him at liberty forthwith.

 

12. The bail bond of the accused stands discharged.
13. Send a copy of this judgment to the Ld. District
Magistrate, Hailakandi.
14. The judgment is delivered today, on this the 4" day of
October,2018.
tes
ve"
Dictated and corrected by me :- SPECIAL JUDGB
HAILAKAND

   

3 ‘SPECI 7
Dictation ia. Amkso! and transcribed by Baharul Islam Choudhury,
Stenographer Grade I. Contd...P/5.
 

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, the victim.

Documentary evidences :-

Ext. 1, the FIR,

Ext. 2, Statement of the victim recorded under Sec. 164, CrPc,

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

aS
ew ai
“SPECIAL JUDGS
HAILAKAND!
