IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Bilasipara
Special (POCSO) Case No- 19 of 2019
u/s 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act
State of Assam
-Vs-
Sanowar Hussain

eseees accused person

Date of framing charge 30-08-2019
Date of recording evidence _ :- 13-09-2019
Date of Argument 18-09-2019
Date of Judgment ‘ 18-09-2019

Advocates Appeared:

For the State of Assam :- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam

For the defence :- Mr. G.C. Nath,

Ld. Advocate for the defence.
JUDGMENT

1. This case is under section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act. So, the name of the victim is not mentioned and she is,
hereinafter, referred to as ‘x’.

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Gazibar Rahman, the informant
lodged an ejahar with the Bilasipara police station on 24-05-2019 informing

that ‘x is his daughter. ‘x’ was 12 years old at the time of occurrence. The

Contd. to page no.-2
[2]

accused Sanowar Hussain induced ‘x’ to get her marry. On the pretext of
such promise to marry, the accused had sexual intercourse with ‘x’. On 22-
04-2019, the accused Sanowar Hussain took ‘x’ to a nearby field where he
committed rape on her. The informant expected a decision from village
meeting, so it took time to lodge the ejahar.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused Sanowar Hussain.
3. The Bilasipara police station received the ejahar and registered as
Bilasipara police station case no. 482/19 u/s 4 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offence Act. The case was investigated and having found prima facie
u/s 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act against the accused
Sanowar Hussain, laid the charge sheet before the court for trial.
4. The accused Sanowar Hussain, hereinafter called the accused,
appeared in this court and he was furnished copy. Charge was framed u/s 4
of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, POCSO in short, against
the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the accused to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined only three (3) witnesses, namely-

1. Jahura Khatun P.W-1
2. Mazibar Rahman P.W-2
3. ‘x’/ the victim P.W-3
6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was

recorded where he denied all allegations levelled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution and also declined to adduce evidence in

defence.
7. Heard argument for both sides.
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i. Whether accused on 22-04-2019 at about 10.00 P.M at paddy field
situated at village Kotergaon under Bilasipara police station
committed penetrative sexual assault on ‘x’, a minor girl and
thereby committed offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act?

Contd. to page no.-3
[3]

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF
9. Now let's see the evidence available on record.

P.W-1 Jahura Khatun has stated in her evidence that the informant is
her husband and ‘x’ is her daughter. She knows the accused. The occurrence
took place 3/4 months ago. ‘x’ told her that the accused wanted to marry
her. ‘x’ told this to her father and her father lodged the case against the
accused.

Cross examination of P.W-1 was declined by the defence.

10. P.W-2 Mazibar Rahman has stated in his evidence that he is the
complainant in this case. ‘x’ is his daughter. He knows the accused. The
occurrence took place 5/6 months ago. The accused wanted to marry his
daughter ‘x’. As his daughter ‘x’ was a minor he did not accept it. He lodged
ejahar against the accused. The accused did not do any sexual act on ‘x’.

The cross examination of P.W-2 was declined by the defence.

11. P.W-3 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that the informant is her father.
She knows the accused. The accused had love affair with her. She asked the
accused to marry her. But he did not agree. She told her father about the
matter and her father lodged the ejahar against the accused. Her father
lodged ejahar against the accused. She gave her statement before the
Magistrate, Ext-1 is the said statement and Ext-1(1)(2)(3) are her
signatures.

In her cross P.W-3 has stated that the accused did not do any sexual
act on her.

12. Thus, scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1, P.W-2 and P.W-3 it appears that
P.W-3 ‘x’ is the alleged victim. She had sternly denied that the accused
committed sexual act on her. Rather P.W-3 has stated that she had love
affair with the accused. She asked him to marry to which the accused
denied. Accordingly she informed her father and her father lodged the ejahar
against the accused. The evidence of P.W-3 does not implicate the accused.

13. P.W-1 Jahura Khatun is the mother of ‘x’. According to P.W-2, her
daughter ‘x’ told her that the accused wanted to marry her. When this was
told to her husband by ‘x’, her husband lodged the ejahar against the
accused. The evidence of P.W-1 does not show that the accused had sexual
intercourse on ‘x’. So, the evidence of P.W-1 is not incriminating against the

accused.

Contd. to page no.-4
[4]

14. | Same is the evidence of P.W-2 Mazibar Rahman who has stated in his
evidence that when he got to know that the accused wanted to marry his
daughter ‘x’, he lodged the ejahar against the accused. There is no evidence
adduced by P.W-2 that the accused committed sexual intercourse with his
daughter ‘x’.

The evidence of P.W-2 is contradictory. When he stated in the ejahar
that the accused committed sexual intercourse on his daughter ‘x’, at the
same time he has stated in his evidence that the accused did not do any
sexual act on his daughter ‘x’. So, the evidence of P.W-2 is contradictory.

15. Considering all aspects, it leads to conclusion that the prosecution
evidence is not sufficient and reliable to prove the offence as alleged against
the accused. The prosecution case is found dearth of merit.

16. The prosecution has failed to prove it’s case u/s 4 of POCSO Act
against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.

17. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

18. Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

Accused Sanowar Hussain be released forthwith from jail hajot, if,
not required in connection with other case.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 18 day of
September, 2019 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Transcribed & typed by,
S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.

Contd. to page no.-5
[5]

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

P.W-1 Jahura Khatun
P.W-2 Mazibar Rahman
PW-3 ‘x’/ the victim

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Statement of ‘x’/the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT WITNESS sf NIL
COURT EXHIBITS * NIL

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
