Page | of 4
Spl POCSO Case No. 15/2016
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI
Ne, NAOT AAR AL,

SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl. POCSO Case No. 15/2016

U/S 366/376 IPC & Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012

 

State of Assam
-VS-
Sri Sun Bhaity Das

besees Accused person

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Special Judge,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Advocates Appeared:-

aoe For the prosecution: Ms. J. Kalita, learned Addl. PP

For the defence : Mr. D.K. Borah, learned Advocate

Dates of recording Evidence: 24.01.2020 & 27.01.2020.
Date of Argument : 27.01.2020.
Date of Judgment : 27.01.2020.

JUDGMENT

1, The prosecution case in brief is that on 18.09.2016 the informant namely Smti Tulu Borah
lodged an FIR with the OC, Biswanath Chariali Police Station stating inter alia that on
13.09.2016 at about 9 AM after returning to her house, she found her daughter aged about
15 years missing. After a search, she could learn that the accused had eloped the victim
and has kept her in his house. When approached, the guardians of the accused though
promised to send her back, they did not return her.

12. Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After

. investigation, the police submitted charge sheet against the accused person u/s 366 IPC
and r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. The accused persons in due course, appeared before this court to face trial. The copies of
the relevant documents were furnished to him. Taking note of the materials on record and
upon hearing both the sides on the point of charge, the charges u/s 366/376 IPC/Section 4
of POCSO Act, 2012 were framed against the accused, which on being read over and
explained, the accused pleaded not guilty.
Page 2 of 4
Spl POCSO Case No. 15/2016

4. During trial, the prosecution examined the informant as PW 1 and the victim as PW 2.
Looking into the evidence of these two vital witnesses, the prosecution declined to examine
the remaining witnesses contending that further evidence would not strengthen its case.
Taking note of the materials on record and the evidence that had emanated, the
prosecution evidence was closed. As no incriminating evidence was found against the
accused, his examination u/s 313 CrPC was dispensed with. The case was thereafter
argued by both the sides.

Points for determination

 

i. Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence abducted the said
victim with intent that she may be forced to illicit intercourse or knowing it to be
likely that she will be forced to illicit intercourse?

| li. | Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed rape on
the said victim?
ili. Whether the accused on the day of tne alleged occurrence committed

penetrative sexual assault on the said victim, who is below the age of 18 years?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
5. PW 1 is the informant, Smti Tulu Bora. She stated that the incident took place about 3/4

years back. According to her, her daughter fled away with the accused when they were not
at home for which she lodged the FIR. She stated that her daughter's age was 18 years at
that relevant time and later, she was married to the accused. Now they have a daughter
out of their wedlock. She proved her FIR as Ext. 1.

6. PW 2 is the victim, She stated that about four years back as she had love affair with the
accused, she eloped with the accused without informing any one at home, for which her
mother had lodged the FIR. Later police had recovered her. According to her, the accused
is innocent and she had gone with the accused on her own wish. She also stated that the
accused person did not misbehave her, She proved her statement recorded u/s 164 CrPC
as Ext. 2. In her cross, she stated that her mother had lodged the 'ejahar’ out of

y| . ‘ misunderstanding.
or
Ai * .#7, Thus from the evidence of both these vital witnesses, we do not find any evidence against
* Sy wee .
4 x - “ the accused to convict him on the offences charged against him. The prosecution has

° failed to prove its case. As such | acquit the accused from the offences charged against
him and set him liberty forthwith. His bail bond stands discharged. The provision of Sec.
437-A CrPC is not complied with upon considering the materials on record. A copy of the
judgment be forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec. 365
Cr.P.C. The case is disposed of.
 

Page 3 of 4
Spl POCSO Case No. 15/2016
Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 27th day of January,

2020.

4 uA ye
pie
(D. BORA)

Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali; Sonitpur, Assam.
Page 4 of 4

Spl POCSO Case No. 15/2016
ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PWi1- Smti Tulu Bora, Informant.
PW2- Victim.

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Statement recorded of the victim u/s 164 CrPC.
Ext.3- Charge Sheet.

Witnesses examined by the Defence:
None

Documents exhibited by the Defence:
None.

J _A

Pan Le
yy ¥
