IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::::::: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.10/2018

State of Assam
Versus

Sahiful Ali @ Saiful Rahman. ..... Accused

Present: Smti Mitali Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State |: MrM.K.Ghose, Special P.P.

Ld. advocate for the accused : Mr S. Pahariya

Evidence recorded on : 04.10.18 and 22.01.2019
Argument heardon =: 04.02.2019
Judgment delivered on: 04.02.2019

JUDGEMENT

1. The prosecution story in brief is that on 29.3.2018 the informant
Sri Lola Brahma lodged the first information report to the effect that on
29.3.2018 at about 3 P.M. in absence of the family members accused Saiful
Ali entered into the house of the informant and tried to commit rape on his

minor daughter Sopila Brahma. Hence, the first information report.
Special Case No.10/18

2

2. On receipt of the first information report in Gossaigaon Police
Station a case has been registered under Gossaigaon P.S. case No.106/2018
under sections 448/376/511 of IPC and the case was endorsed to the S.I. Ayub
Ali Sk. for investigation. During investigation the I. O. visited to the place of
occurrence and recorded the statement of the witnesses including the victim
and after ascertaining the minor age of the victim, the charge sheet has been
filed by the I.O. under sections 448/354 (A) of IPC, read with section 8
POCSO Act against the accused Sahiful Ali. Relevant copies accordingly
furnished to the accused by this court and the charge under section 448 of IPC,
read with section 8 of POCSO Act were framed against the accused finding a
prima-facie case. The charges were read over and explained to the accused to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
3. The prosecution side examined as many as 03 (three) number of
witnesses including the informant and the victim as follows:-

PW 1 Miss Sapila Brahma (victim),

PW 2 Sri Lola Brahma (Informant),

PW 3 Smti Anita Brahma.
4. The defence took the plea of total denial and he has not adduced
any evidence in support of his case. Recording the statement of the accused
person under section 313 Cr.P.C. was dispensed with as there was no
incriminating material against the accused person in the testimonies of PWs.
5. Points for determination:

(1) Whether the accused criminally trespassed into the house of

the informant for the purpose to rape his daughter ?

(2) Whether the accused committed the offence of sexual assault

to the minor victim ?
Special Case No.10/18

3

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

 

6. To arrive at a just decision I have thoroughly perused the
evidences of prosecution witnesses, assessed them and heard argument put
forwarded of both sides and the case is decided as follows:-

we PW1, Victim of this case deposed that on the day of the
occurrence after returning from the College she had her launch and thereafter
she went to the well to wash utensils and at that time the accused came near to
the well to wash his hands and when his hands touched her body and out of
fear she screamed and ran away from the place of occurrence. After the
incident she reported the matter to her father and thereafter her father lodged
the first information report. In cross evidence she stated that the accused had
no bad intention and his hands touched on her body accidentally. She also
stated that accused had not caught hold her nor hugged her.

8. PW2, Informant of this case deposed that the victim is his
daughter. At the time of incident he was not present in the house and on
returning home his daughter reported about the incident. He further stated that
when his daughter shouted and then accused fled away from the place of
occurrence. Thereafter, consulting with the villagers he lodged the first
information report. In his cross evidence he deposed that the accused did not
had any bad intention nor he directly caught hold of the hands of his daughter
but, accidentally the hands of the accused touched in the body of his daughter.
9. PW3, Mother of the victim deposed that on the day of the
incident she was not present in the house. She further deposed that when her
daughter was washing utensils near the well after coming from her College,
accused came and asked her water to wash his hands and the hands of the
accused touched in her daughter. In her cross she deposed that when the

accused pulling water from the well accidentally hands of the accused touched
Special Case No.10/18

4

with the hands of her daughter and except that no other incident took place.
So, from the discussion of the testimonies of prosecution witnesses it is seen
that there is no evidence of any sexual assault nor the victim brought any
allegation of attempt by the accused to have sexual relationship with her. It
was merely accidentally touched the hands of the accused to the victim. More
so they have stated that the accused had no bad intention.

10. So from the detail discussion made above, it is seen that the
prosecution could not establish the case against the accused Sahiful Ali under
section 448 of IPC, R.W. section 8 of POCSO Act beyond all shadow of doubt
and hence giving the benefit of doubt I hereby acquit the accused and set him
at liberty forthwith.

11. The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the court on this 04th February/2019 at Kokrajhar court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
