1
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 53 OF 2016.
Under Section 366(A)/511 I.P.C. r/w section 18 of
the P.O.C.S.O. Act, 2012 & section 67 Information
Technology Act,2000.

Present:- Smti. C.R.Goswami, A.J.S.,

Special Judge, Barpeta
State of Assam.

-versus-

Sabdel Ali @ Sabdel Ahmed ... Accused.

APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Mr. A. Kayem, learned P.P.
For the accused : Mr. H.Rizuwani, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 01-04-2017
Argument heard on :01-04-2017

Judgment delivered on : 01-04-2017

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that on 04-11-2016 one Sekan
Ali lodged an FIR alleging that his daughter the victim,aged about 15
years was reading in Class X at Chenimari Azad Memorial High School.
For last 6/7 months on her way to school, accused Sabdel Ali teased
her and took her photograph by mobile phone. On 02-11-2016, while
she was returning home from school, accused person tried to kidnap
her. But seeing her maternal uncle the accused person fled away. There
after the accused person took her photograph by mobile phone and up
loaded the same in the Face-Book. Though he informed the matter to
the guardian of the accused,but they did not respond to it.

2. On the basis of the FIR police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against the accused person under section 366(A)511 IPC read
with section 18 of POCSO Act and read with section 67 Information
Technology Act,2000.

3. The accused person was produced before this court and faced
trial.
4. Charges were framed against the accused person under section

366(A)511 IPC read with section 18 of POCSO Act and read with section
67 Information Technology Act,2000. Charges were read over and
clearly explained to the accused person to which he has pleaded not
guilty and claimed for trial.

5. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined two
witnesses. Examination of the accused person under section 313 Cr.P.C.
is dispensed with.

6. Points for determination:-

(1) Whether the accused person on 04-11-2016 at 6.30 PM. at
Malipara,Chenga within the jurisdiction of Tarabari Police Station,
attempted to kidnap the victim, aged about 15 years the daughter of
the informant Sekan Ali, with intent that she might be compelled to
marry him against her will or knowing to be likely that she might be
forced or seduced to illicit intercourse by means criminal intimidation
or by any other method,to go from any place with intent that she might
be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with any other
person,attempted to commit sexual assault on her ?

(2) Whether the accused on the same date, time and place, attempted
to commit sexual assault on the victim,aged about 15 years the
daughter of the informant Sekan Ali ?

(3) Whether the accused on the same date, time and place, publish or
transmit or cause to be published or transmitted in the electronic form
i.e. through Face-book taking photograph of the victim by mobile
phone,any material which is lascivious or appeals to the purient
interest or its effect is such as to tend to deprave and corrupt persons
who are likely,having regard to all relevant circumstances to read,see
or hear the matter embodied in it ?
Decision and reasons thereof:

7. In this case the prosecution has examined only two witnesses
one is the informant and the other is the victim.

8. Informant Sekan Ali as P.W.1 has deposed that the occurrence
took place about % months ago. At that time his daughter the victim
was a student of Class X. On her way to school somebody disturbed her
int ending to love her. Then he reported the matter to the guardian of
the accused,but they did not respond to it. Then he lodged the FIR.

In his cross examination he has stated that due to some

misunderstanding he lodged the FIR. But later on they have settled the
matter outside the court.
9. The victim as P.W.2 has stated that about 5/6 years ago on her
way to school some boys disturbed her. Then she informed the matter
to her father and her father filed the case against the accused person
out of suspicion. Police produced her before the Magistrate and the
Magistrate recorded her statement.

In her cross examination she has stated that her father did not
see any occurrence. He lodged the FIR out of suspicion. She made the
statement before the Magistrate as tutored by the police. But later on
the village people settled the matter.

From the depositions of the informant and the victim it is

revealed that on the way to school somebody disturbed the victim. But
the witnesses have not disclosed how the victim was disturbed. They
have not stated anything regarding the attempt of kidnap or taking
photograph of the victim and up loading the same in the Face-Book by
the accused person. The informant did not see any occurrence. He only
heard from the victim. The victim does not know who disturbed her.
According to her her father lodged the FIR out of suspicion.
10. Under such circumstances,it is found that the prosecution has
failed to bring home the guilt of the accused person for any of the
offence either under section 366(A)/511 I.P.C.read with section 18
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 or under section
67 of the Information Technology Act,2000. Therefore, the accused
person is acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.
11. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
extended for another period of six months from the date of this
judgment under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

12. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365
Cr.P.C.

13. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 1* day of
April, 2017.

Dictated & corrected by me.
Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti.cC.R.Goswami ) (Smti.cC.R.Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
5

APPENDIX.

(A)Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1. ‘FIR.
Ext.1(1) :Sig. of Sekand Ali
Ext.2 : Statement recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext.2(1)&
Ext.2(2) :Sigs. of Sabina Yasmin
(B)Defence Exhibits:Nil.

(C)Exhibits produced by witnesses:Nil.

(D)Court Exhibits: Nil.
(E)Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 :‘Sekand Ali
P.W.2 :The victim

(F)Defence witnesses:Nil.

(G)Court witnesses:Nil.
Sd/-
(Smti.C.R.Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta
