DISTRICT : DHUBRI

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHUBRI

PRESENT: - = Shri A. Chakravarty, M.A., LL.M., AJS

U/S 376 (2

Special Case No. 19 of 2016

i)/511 IPC and 8 of POCSO Act

Corresponding to G.R. Case No. 4105/2015

State of Assam

Ashraful Rahman

Charge framed on

Evidence recorded on
Statement recorded on

Arguments heard on

Judgment delivered on

sii Complainant

Versus

... Accused

18-08-2016

26-09-2016, 17-02-2017 and 03-06-2017
17-06-2017
14-07-2017

27-07-2017

Advocates who appeared in this case are:

Shri Maniruz Zaman, P.P. for the Prosecution

Shri Yusuf Ali Bepari, Advocate, for the Defence
Special Case No. 19 of 2016

JUDGMENT

1. This case was registered on 08-09-2015, at Golakganj Police Station, under
Sections 341,376(2) (i), 511, 506, 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short “the
IPC”), r/w Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in
short “the POCSO Act”), based on a First Information Report (in short “the FIR”)
filed by the prosecutrix against accused Ashraful Rahman, Golap Uddin and Hasina
Bibi.

2. The case of the prosecution, as stated in the FIR, is that on 30-08-2015, at
around 09:00 p.m., at village Bisondoi, Part-II, under Golakganj Police Station, while
the prosecutrix was proceeding from her house towards the house of her uncle, from
the courtyard of the house of her uncle, the accused Ashraful Rahman gagged her
and took her to the jungle behind his house and attempted to commit rape on her.
She then raised a hue and cry at which, her father Ayub Ali and brother-in-law Sofur
Ali arrived at the place of occurrence and seeing them, the accused fled away.
Thereafter, the father of the prosecutrix went to the house of the accused persons
and told the accused Golap Uddin and Hasina Bibi about the incident. But, the
accused Golap Uddin and Hasina Bibi threatened the prosecutrix and her father with
dire consequences and drove them out of their house. Therefore, the prosecutrix
filed the FIR of the instant case with the Golakganj Police Station on 08-09-2015. As
the prosecutrix was waiting for settlement of the dispute cordially, she did not file

the FIR immediately after the incident.

3. The Officer In-charge of the Golakganj Police Station registered the FIR as
No.596, dated 08-09-2015, for offences under Sections 341, 376(2) (i), 511, 506, 34
IPC, r/w Section 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused 1. Ashraful Rahman, 2.
Golap Uddin and 3. Hasina Bibi and investigated the case. During the course of
investigation, the prosecutrix was medically examined. Her statement was recorded
by the Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. Statements of several witnesses were
also recorded and after completion of investigation, a charge sheet was filed for
offences under Sections 341,376(2) (i), 511, 506, 34 IPC, r/w Section 8 of the

POCSO Act, against the accused Ashraful Rahman only. Hence, this case.

4. During trial, charges under Sections 376 (2) (i)/511 IPC and 8 of POCSO Act
were framed against the accused Ashraful Rahman. When the contents of the
charges were read over and explained to the accused, he pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.
Special Case No. 19 of 2016

5. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined eleven witnesses. The

accused did not examine any witness.

6. In his examination under section 313 CrP.C., the accused has denied the
prosecution case and has stated that the allegations leveled against him are false
and baseless.
7. | The point for determination in this case is:-

Whether on 30-08-2015, at around 09:00 p.m., at village Bisondoi, Part-I,
under Golakganj Police Station, the accused Ashraful Rahman attempted to commit
rape on the prosecutrix and sexually assaulted her, who at the relevant time, was a

child under 18 years of age?

If so, what punishment he deserves?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

8. I have carefully examined the evidence on record, gone through the relevant
documents on record and after hearing the arguments advanced by the learned

counsels for both the sides, give my decision on the above points as follows:-

9. The prosecutrix (PW-2) has deposed that she knows the accused. The alleged
incident took place at around 08:00 /09:00 p.m. At the time of the alleged
occurrence, while she was proceeding to the house of the brother of her father, the
accused Ashraful Rahman picked up her from the road, took her to his house and
attempted to commit rape on her. When she raised hue and cry, the accused fled
away. Therefore, she filed the ext-1 FIR of the case against the accused. Ext-1 (1) is
her signature therein. Her statement was recorded by the Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext. 2 is her said statement and ext-2(1) & 2 (2) are her signatures therein. The
statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. by the Magistrate
reads as follows: “About three/four days ago, one day, at around 09:00 p.m., while
she was proceeding towards the house of her aunt, the accused gagged her and
took her to the jungle. The accused proposed to marry her. When she did not accept
his proposal, the accused attempted to commit rape on her. In the meantime, her
mother called her and hearing the same, the accused fled away. When she goes to

school, the accused used to meet her on the road and tell her that he will marry her.”
Special Case No. 19 of 2016

10. In the cross-examination, she has stated that three/four days before the said
occurrence, the father of the accused and her father had quarreled with each other.
There is a road by the side of their house and her uncle’s house is situated across
the road. The house of her uncle can be reached through their private road. At the
time of the alleged occurrence, her parents, brothers and sisters were present in the
house. The police recorded her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. twice. In the
subsequent statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C., she has not stated that the
accused attempted to commit rape on her. In her earlier statement, she had stated
that the accused attempted to commit rape on her. There are four houses in
between her house and the house of the accused. The said houses belong to her
uncles and aunts. About fifty families reside in their locality. She has denied the
suggestion that the accused did not take her to his house and did not attempt to
commit rape on her. She has also denied the suggestion that due to previous

enmity, she has filed a false case against the accused.

11. PW-3 Lutfa Bibi, an aunt of the prosecutrix, has deposed that while the
prosecutrix was proceeding towards the house of her uncle, the accused took her to
his house. She did not depose that the accused attempted to commit rape on the

prosecutrix or sexually assaulted the prosecutrix.

12. PW-4 Taiyob Ali has deposed that on the day of the alleged occurrence, at
around 07:00 p.m, hearing a commotion in the house of the prosecutrix, he went
there and came to know that the prosecutrix was missing from the house and the
accused has taken the prosecutrix to his house. In the meantime, the prosecutrix
returned home and when he asked her, she told him that the accused had taken her

to his house.

13. Thus, the PW-4 has deposed a different story inasmuch, as the prosecutrix
has deposed that alleged incident occurred at about 08:00/09:00 p.m., whereas, he

has deposed that the alleged incident occurred at before 07:00 p.m.

14. PW-5 Ayub Ali, the father of the prosecutrix has deposed that on the day of
the alleged occurrence, the prosecutrix had been to the house of her uncle. Hearing
a hue and cry, he went to the place of occurrence but, did not find the prosecutrix
there. After sometime, the prosecutrix returned to his house. When he asked the
prosecutrix what was the matter, she told him that the accused had taken her to his
house. He has further stated that he does not know why the accused has taken the

prosecutrix to his house.
Special Case No. 19 of 2016

15. Thus, the father of the prosecutrix has deposed a different story and has not
not corroborated the FIR version of the case that hearing the cries of the
prosecutrix, accompanied by his son-in-law, he went to the place of occurrence and
seeing them, the accused fled away and thereafter, he went to the house of the
accused and parents of the accused threatened him and the prosecutrix with dire

consequences and drove them away.

16. Further, even assuming while denying the deposition of the PW-5 to be true,
then also the accused had, at the most, taken the prosecutrix to his house but, did
nothing to her. Therefore, as it is not alleged that the accused had kidnapped or
abducted the prosecutrix or confined the prosecutrix in his house, the act of taking
prosecutrix to his house and setting her free thereafter, will not amount to

commission of the alleged offences by the accused.

17. PW-6 Sabur Ali has deposed that hearing a hue and cry, he went to the house
of the prosecutrix and came to know that the prosecutrix was missing. They then
searched for her and recovered her. When he asked the prosecutrix where she had
been to, she told him that while she was proceeding towards the house of her uncle,
the accused took her to his house. Thus, the PW-6 also did not depose that the
prosecutrix told him that the accused attempted to commit rape on her or sexually

assaulted her.

18. PW-9 Nilima Bibi, the mother of the prosecutrix has deposed that on the day
of the alleged occurrence, at around 08:00 p.m., the accused went to their house
and forcibly took away the prosecutrix. They then raised a hue and cry at which,

leaving the prosecutrix, the accused fled away.

19. The above testimony of the PW-9 has completely demolished the prosecution
case that on 30-08-2015, at around 09:00 p.m., at village Bisondoi Part-II, under
Golakganj Police Station, while the prosecutrix was proceeding from her house
towards the house of her uncle, from the courtyard of the house of her uncle, the
accused Ashraful Rahman gagged her and took her to the jungle behind his house
and attempted to commit rape on her. She then raised a hue and cry at which, her
father Ayub Ali and brother-in-law Sofur Ali arrived at the place of occurrence and
seeing them, the accused Ashraful Rahman fled away. There is nothing to disbelieve
the PW-9. Therefore, the FIR version of the case and the deposition of the

prosecutrix are totally false and baseless.
Special Case No. 19 of 2016

20. PW-10 Bajur Ali has deposed that about one and half years ago, one day, at
around 03:30 p.m., while he was working in the paddy field, he heard a hue and cry
in front of the house of the prosecutrix. He then went to the place of occurrence and
saw that the father of the accused and the father of the prosecutrix were quarreling
with each other over boundary dispute. He does not know what happened

thereafter.

21. Thus the PW-10 has proved that the families of the informant and the accused

had previous enmity.

22. PW-7 Dr. Sandip Kumar Mondal, the Medical Officer, who had examined the

prosecutrix, has deposed that he did not find any injury on her body.

23. PW-11 ASI Ajit Kirtonia, the investigating office of the case is merely a formal

witness of the case.

24. PW-1 Moksed Ali and PW-8 Atowar Rahman are not material witnesses of the
case and they deposed nothing implicating the accused with the commission of the

alleged offences.

25. As can be seen from the above discussion, the prosecutrix has narrated the
alleged incident in a different way in the FIR, stated in a deferent way before the
Magistrate and has deposed in a different way. Further, the prosecutrix has signed
in the FIR in the Assamese language and has signed in the deposition in the English
language. Therefore, the prosecutrix is an educated person and hence, because of
the contradictions between her deposition, FIR version of the case and the
statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C., the prosecution case cannot be
accepted to be true. Contradiction about the place of occurrence between the FIR
version, statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. by the Magistrate and
deposition, in the fact and circumstances of the case, must be held to be fatal to the

prosecution case.

26. Over and above this, as the PW-9 Nilima Bibi, the mother of the prosecutrix
has deposed that on the day of the alleged occurrence, at around 08:00 p.m., the
accused went to their house and forcibly took away the prosecutrix and when they
raised a hue and cry, leaving the prosecutrix, the accused fled away, the case of the
prosecution must be held to be false and baseless. The PW-9 has deposed a
completely different story and there is nothing to disbelieve the PW-9. the PW-9 has

6
Special Case No. 19 of 2016

completely demolished the prosecution case that on 30-08-2015, at around 09:00
p.m., at village Bisondoi Part-II, under Golakganj Police Station, while the
prosecutrix was proceeding from their house towards the house of her uncle, from
the courtyard of the house of her uncle, the accused Ashraful Rahman took her to
the jungle behind his house and attempted to commit rape on her. Therefore, it
must be held that no such incident as narrated in the FIR or stated before the
Magistrate or deposed the prosecutrix has actually taken place. The prosecutrix was
not at all taken away or kidnapped by the accused as he merely gone to the house
of the prosecutrix and when the members of the family of the prosecutrix raised a

hue and cry, he fled away.

27. In view of the above, it must be held that the prosecution has failed to bring
home the charges under Sections 376 (2) (i), 511 IPC and Section 8 of POCSO Act
against the accused Ashraful Rahman. The point is decided in the negative,

accordingly.
ORDER

28. In the result, from the facts and circumstances of the case and above
discussion, I hold that the prosecution has failed to bring home the charges under
Sections 376 (2) (i), 511 IPC and Section 8 of POCSO Act against the accused
Ashraful Rahman. Hence, he is acquitted. His bail bond stands cancelled. He is set
at liberty forthwith.

29. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on this the 27" day of July,
2017, at Dhubri.

(A. Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Dhubri
Dictated & corrected by me.

(A.Chakravarty)
Special judge, Dhubri
APPENDIX

1. PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

PW-
PW-
PW-
PW-
PW-
PW-
PW-
PW-

1 Md. Moksed Ali
2 The prosecutrix
3 Md. Lutfa Bibi
4 Md. Taiyob Ali

5 Md. Ayub Ali

6 Md. Sofur Ali

7 Dr. Sandip Kumar Mondal
8 Md. Atowar Rahman

9 Musstt. Nilima Bibi

10 Md. Bajur Ali

11 ASI Ajit Kirtoniya

2. PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:

Exhibit- 1 FIR

Exhibit- 2 Statement of the prosecutrix
Exhibit- 3 Medical Report

Exhibit-4 Site Plan

(A.Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Dhubri

Special Case No. 19 of 2016
