1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Special 08/2018 corresponding to GR Case
No.320/2018 & Bokajan Police Station Case
No. 25/2018 Under Section 8 of the POCSO
Act.

State of Assam
Versus

Shri Padmeswar Boro

Name of informant/complainant:
Miss Mirbon Tissopi
D/o Shri Babul Tisso
Village: Koy Tisso
P.S Bakalia
District: Karbi Anglong.
Name of the accused person facing trial:

Shri Padmeswar Boro,
S/o Shri Sanjib

Village: Tisso Gaon

P.S: Bakalia

District: Karbi Anglong.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr Dilip Kumar Deka, Public
Prosecutor

For the accused : Mr Shyamal Shil.

Argument heard on : 26.9.2018.

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 04.10.2018.
2|Page

l.

UDGMENT

It is a case of sexual assault alleged to have
been committed by the accused, Shri

Padmeswar Boro.

The prosecution case in brief is that on
28.3.2018 the informant, Miss Mirbon Tissopi
lodged an ejahar with Bakalia Police Station
stating inter alia that on 27.3.2018 at about 5-30
PM, she and her younger sister, Miss Irish Tissopi
while coming from Longnit Bazar towards their
house, the accused-Padmeswar Boro catching
hold of her hand and chest did bad work(indicated
sexual offense) on Longnit bridge and thereafter,
he left the place. Coming to their house, she
informed the matter to her mother. On receipt of
the written ejahar, O/C, Bakalia Police Station
registered a criminal case vide Bakalia Police
Station Case No.25/2018 U/S 8 of the POCSO Act.
On completion of the investigation, charge-sheet
was submitted Sec.8 of the POCSO Act against the
accused person. Hence the prosecution case.

On completion of appearance of the accused
person before this Court, copy was furnished to
him. Having very carefully gone through
submissions of learned lawyers of both sides as
well as case diary, | have found sufficient grounds
for presuming that the accused person had
committed the offence U/S 8 of the POCSO Act
and accordingly, the charge was framed. The
particular of the offence charge was duly read
over and explained to the accused to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many
as 10 (ten) witnesses including the informant-
cum-alleged victim. Accused person has been
3|Page

examined under section 313 of Cr.PC. Defense
examined none. Plea of defence is of total denial.

Point for determination

Whether the accused person, Shri Padmeswar
Boro on 27.3.2018 at about 5-30 PM on the bridge
of the road connecting Longnit Bazar under
Bakalia Police Station committed sexual assault
upon the victim, Miss Mirbon Tissopi aged about
14 years and that you thereby committed an
offense punishable U/S 8 of the POCSO Act?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through the
submissions of learned lawyers of both sides as
well as evidence on record. In the very beginning,
learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the
accused has submitted that the prosecution has
totally failed to prove its case beyond all
reasonable doubts. On the other hand, refuting
the aforesaid submission, learned — Public
Prosecutor, Mr D.K. Deka has submitted that
prosecution has duly succeeded in establishing its
case. Prior to forming an opinion on the rival
submissions made by the parties, | would like to
give a glance at evidence on record.

PW-1 is Smti. Sika Engtipi who has stated in
her evidence that the informant-cum-victim is her
daughter. The incident occurred on 23rd March of
this year. On that day at about 5 O’ Clock in the
evening, her daughter, Mirbon and _ another
daughter came home back weeping from Longnit
Bazar. On being asked, Mirbon told her that
accused hugged her from back side and touched
her chest. She informed the matter to the
villagers. She knows the accused since long as he
belongs to the same village. On the subsequent
4|Page

day, her daughter lodged an ejahar at Bakalia
Police Station. Police seized a birth certificate
from their house and she put her signature in the
seizure list. Ext.1 is the seizure list and Ext.1(1) is
her signature. Police brought her daughter to
Diphu Civil Hospital and got her statement
recorded in the Court. At the time of occurrence,
age of the victim girl was 14 years.

PW-2 is the informant-cum-victim who has
stated in her testimony that she knows the
accused. On 27.3.2018 at about 5-30 PM while
she was coming from market along with her 6
years old sister, on her arrival at the bridge, the
accused suddenly hugged her from behind and
touched her chest (breasts). On being looked
back, the accused left the place. There was no
house near the place of occurrence. Ext.2 is the
ejahar and Ext.2(1) is her signature. Police got her
medically examined and her statement recorded
in the Court. Ext.3 is her statement and Ext.3(1) is
her signature. At the time of occurrence, she was
13 years and 6 months old.

PW-3, Smti. Kadom Terangpi is a hearsay
witness. She heard the occurrence from the
mother of the victim. She also heard that people
of their village had beaten the accused. On being
asked, the victim herself told her that the accused
hugged her from behind on the bridge at Longnit
and touched her chest.

PW-4 is Miss Jyotsna Tissopi is the elder sister
of the victim. According to her version, the
occurrence took place on 27th March of this year.
On day of occurrence at 5-30 PM, her aunty
informed her that while the victim was coming

home back, in the evening hours, the accused
5|Page

LiL;

12.

13.

hugged her from behind and touched her chest on
the bridge of Longnit. At the time of incident, the
victim was 14 years old. On the day of the
occurrence, the victim came to Bokalia Police
Station and lodged the written ejahar there. She
and her mother went to the police station along
with the victim.

PW-5 is Shri Sikari Tisso who has stated that
the informant is his daughter. He knows the
accused. The incident occurred on 27.3.2018 at
about 5-30 PM. At the time of occurrence, he was
staying at home. At that time, people of their
village informed him that while the informant was
coming from Longnit Bazar, the accused hugged
her from behind on the bridge of Longnit. At the
time of occurrence, his younger daughter-Miss
lrish Tissopi was with his victim-daughter.
Thereafter, some villagers went to Bakalia Police
Station along with the victim and lodged the
ejahar. At the time of incident, victim was 14
years old. Police brought the victim to Diphu Civil
Hospital for medical examination and the Court
recorded her statement.

PW-6 is Miss Irish Tissopi who has stated in
her evidence she saw the accused touching the
breast of her sister, Mirbon Tissopi from behind.

PW-7 is Dr Jecqueline Teronpi who has
deposed that on 28.3.2018 while she was
discharging her duty as SDM&HO at Diphu Civil
Hospital, she examined Smti. Mirbon Tissopi in
connection with Bakalia Police Station Case No.
25/2018 and on examination, she found the age
of the victim as 13 to 14 years which was based
on radiologist’s report. She found no external
injury on her and during the time of
6|Page

14.

L5.

16.

examination, she was having her menstruation.
She found hymen absent. Ext.4 is the medical
report and Ext.4(1) and 4(2) are her signatures.

PW-8 is Shri Rensing Tisso who has stated his
evidence that the informant-victim is his niece. He
knows the accused person. The incident occurred
on 27.3.2018. On the day of occurrence at about
5-30 PM, the informant took him along with her
while she was going to police station. Other
people were also present with her. On being asked
about the occurrence, the victim informed him
that on the way to her house from Longnit Bazar,
the accused hugged her from behind, touched her
chest and kissed her on the bridge. Village people
nabbed the accused. Police came and the
villagers handed the accused over to police. Police
seized one birth certificate from the custody of
the informant. Ext.1 is that seizure list and
Ext.1(2) is his signature. At the time of
occurrence, the victim was about 10 years old.

PW-9 is Smti. Jyotika Bora who has stated in
her deposition that on 28.3.2018 she was
discharging her duty at Bakalia Police Station. On
that day, one girl by name Nirbon Tissopi came to
their police station and lodged an ejahar. She
recorded the statement of informant-victim,
Nirbon Tissopi. She recorded the facts as victim
told to her.

PW-10 is Shri Kulesh Jyoti Bhuyan who is the
1.O. of this case. He has stated in his evidence
that on the day of occurrence, he was working as
O/C of Bakalia Police Station and he himself took
up the charge of investigation. On completion of
procedural works of investigation, he submitted
charge-sheet U/S 8 of the POCSO Act against the
7|Page

accused person. Ext.6 is charge-sheet and
Ext.6(1) is his signature. He seized school
certificate of victim. Ext.1 is the said certificate
and Ext.1(3) is his signature. M.Ext.1 is school
certificate and M.Ext.1(1) is the signature of the
Principal of that school.

For attracting the provisions of the POCSO Act
the victim needs to a child. According to section
2(d) of the Act, any person who has_ not
completed 18 years is called child. Ext-1 is the
seizure which shows that a birth certificate of the
victim where in her date of birth has been
recorded as 28-05-2004. PW-1 and PW-5 are the
parents of the victim who have stated in their
evidence that at the time of occurrence she was
14 years old. PW-4 is the sister of the victim who
has also stated that the victim was 14 years.
Parents are the best persons who can Say actual
age of their child. PW-7 is the medical officer and
her evidence shows that as per radiologist at the
time of occurrence, the victim was 13/14 years
old. According to the victim, at the time of
occurrence she was 13 years 6 months. M-Ext-1
shows that at the time of occurrence the victim
was below 14 years. The defence has _ not
disputed that evidence of aforesaid PWs regarding
age of the victim at the time of occurrence. Now |
have come to conclusion that at the time of
occurrence, the victim was not more than 14
years. Accordingly it is held that at the time of

occurrence, the victim was child.

Fact of the case remains that at the time of
occurrence, the victim along with her 7 years old
sister was coming home back from Bazar and that
occurrence took place in a lonely place on bridge.
According to the victim, the accused coming from
8|Page

Lo.

20.

ZL.

back side suddenly caught hold of her from
backside and pressed her breasts. Her aforesaid
sister has also stated that the accused pressed
the breasts of the victim.

It is found that immediate after occurrence, the
victim went to the house crying and informed her
mother about the occurrence. On the following
day she lodged the FIR at Bokalia Police Station.
Other prosecution witnesses have also supported
the prosecution case.

Regarding credibility of the child witness it
has been observed by Hon'ble Apex Court in the
case law of Raj Kumar V State of MP reported
in “ (2014) 5 SCC 353” thus:-“ Evidence of child
witness must be evaluated more carefully and
with greater circumspection because a child is
susceptible to be swayed by what others tell
him.” Similarly the Hon'ble Apex Court has also
observed in case of Alagupandi V State of TN
reported in “ (2012) 10 SCC 451” thus:-“
While assessing evidence of child witness, court
must carefully observe his/her demeanour to
eliminate likelihood of tutoring. Conviction can be
allowed to stand without any corroboration but as
a rule of prudence it is always desirable to seek
corroboration of such evidence from other reliable

evidence on record.

In this regard | would like to refer to the case of
Narender Kumar v. State (NCT of Delhi)
reported in “ (2012) 7 SCC 171” and its relevant
paragraph is re-produced below:-“20. It is a
settled legal proposition that once the statement
of the prosecutrix inspires confidence and is
accepted by the court as such, conviction can be
based only on the solitary evidence of the
9|Page

prosecutrix and no _ corroboration would be
required unless there are compelling reasons
which necessitate the court for corroboration of
her statement. Corroboration of testimony of the
prosecutrix as a condition for judicial reliance is
not a requirement of law but a guidance of
prudence under’ the given’ facts = and
circumstances. Minor contradictions or
insignificant discrepancies should not be a ground
for throwing out an otherwise reliable prosecution

case.”

There is a no contradiction in the evidence of
victim. It is evident that the victim immediate
after occurrence went to the house crying and
informed her mother. There is also no evidence on
record showing that there is/was any enmity
between the accused and any member of the
victim’s family. In Indian society normally woman
or any child like the victim dislikes to disclose any
sexual assault inflicted upon them to others out of
shame or fear. | find no way to believe that the
victim and her younger sister who was with her at
the time of occurrence deposed false. In view of
the discussion and observations made in the
aforesaid case laws | find the evidence of victim
marked as PW-2 as well as her younger sister
marked as PW-6 reliable and trust-worthy.

Sexual assault is defined under section 7 of the
POCSO Act which reads thus “Whoever, with
sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or
breast of the child or makes the child touch the
vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or
any other person, or does any other act with
sexual intent which involves physical contact
10|Page

24.

25.

without penetration is said to commit sexual
assault.”

Ext-3 is statement of the victim which shows
that the accused touched her breasts and hugged
her keeping his hands around her neck. It is
evident that the accused person touched her
breast or did some act with sexual intention. | find
the acts done by the accused person towards the
victim fall within preview of the sexual assault as
defined under section 7 of the POCSO Act.

Section 8 of the POCSO Act relates to punishment
in respect of sexual assault as defined under
section 7 of the POCSO Act which reads thus
“Whoever, commits sexual assault, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term
which shall not be less than three years but which may
extend to five years, and shall also be liable to fine”

26. | find the prosecution has succeeded to prove its

27.

28.

case against the accused person under section 7
of the POSCO Act.

ORDER

In the result | find the accused person guilty
under section 8 of the POCSO Act and accordingly
he is convicted.

On the point of sentence the accused is heard
and to that effect his statement is recorded.
Accused has stated before the court that he is the
only earning member of his family consisting of
his wife, 1 % year old daughter and old parents.
He has also prayed for leniency in sentencing
him. Learned advocated appearing on behalf of
the accused person has submitted that accused is
a poor person and that there is no evidence on
record showing that he was previously convicted
11|Page

by the court of law and as such he deserves to be
punished leniently. On the other hand learned
Public Prosecutor Mr. Dilip Kumar Deka _ has
submitted that the accused needs to be punished
exemplary to make the desire of the legislature
fulfilled.

Regarding object of the POCSO Act, the
Hon'ble Apex has observed in case of Eera v.
State (NCT of Delhi) reported in “(2017) 15
SCC 133” thus :-“20. The purpose of referring to
the Statement of Objects and Reasons and the
Preamble of the Pocso Act is to appreciate that
the very purpose of bringing a legislation of the
present nature is to protect the children from the
sexual assault, harassment and exploitation, and
to secure the best interest of the child. On an avid
and diligent discernment of the Preamble, it is
manifest that it recognizes the necessity of the
right to privacy and confidentiality of a child to be
protected and respected by every person by all
means and through all stages of a judicial process
involving the child. Best interest and well-being
are regarded as being of paramount importance
at every stage to ensure the healthy physical,
emotional, intellectual and social development of
the child. There is also a stipulation that sexual
exploitation and sexual abuse are heinous
offences and need to be effectively addressed.
The Statement of Objects and Reasons provides
regard being had to the constitutional mandate,
to direct its policy towards securing that the
tender age of children is not abused and their
childhood is protected against exploitation and
they are given facilities to develop in a healthy
manner and in conditions of freedom and dignity.
There is also a mention which is quite significant
12|Page

a0.

31.

that interest of the child, both as a victim as well
as a witness, needs to be protected. The stress is
on providing child-friendly procedure. Dignity of
the child has been laid immense emphasis in the
scheme of legislation. Protection and interest
occupy the seminal place in the text of
the POSCO Act.”

Having regards to discussion made above as
well as observations made in the case law cited
above | do hereby order the accused person to
suffer RI of 3 years and to pay fine of Rs. 500/- i/d
SI of 1(One) Month. Accordingly case is disposed
of on contest. No order for recommending award
of compensation to be paid to the victim is
passed.

Given under my hand and seal of the Court on
this 04" October, 2018 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS )
Special Judge Special Judge
APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses.
PW-1 Smt. Sika Engtipi

PW-2 Victim Girl

PW-3 Smt. Kadom Terangpi
PW-4 Miss Jyotsna Tissopi
PW-5 is Shri Sikari Tisso
PW-6 is Miss Irisih Tissopi
PW-7 is Dr. Jecqueline Teronpi
PW-8 is Rensing Tisso

PW-9 is Smt. Jyotika Bora

PW-10 is Shri Kulesh Jyoti Bhyuan.
13|Page

Prosecution Exhibited

Ext-1 is seizure list

M-Ext-1 is the seized School certificate.
Defence Witnesses : Nil

Defence Exhibited: Nil

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS )
Special Judge
