HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE BILASIPARA

Present:- Smti S. Bhuyan, AJS
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Special Case No- 12 of 17

u/s 366(A) of I.P.C r/w_ section 4 of POCSO Act

STATE
Versus
Hasen Ali
Accused person

(Corresponding to GR case No- 748/17 u/s 120(B)/366(A) I.P.C. r/w section 4
of POCSO Act)

Advocate appeared:-

For the state:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Special P.P.

For the accused:- Mr. Shanti Uddin Sk., Advocate.

Date of institution of the case :- 25-05-17
Date of Framing charge :- 07-12-17
Date of prosecution evidence :- 28-02-18
Statement of accused recorded on _ :- 19-03-18
Date of Argument :- 19-03-18

Judgment delivered :- 04-04-18
2|Page

JUDGMENT
Prosecution Case

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 22-05-17 at about 6.30 pm taking
advantage of absence of informant at his house, accused Hasen Ali enticed
informant’s minor victim daughter on the pretext of marriage from his house.
Thereafter they made search for both of them and on the same day at about
01.30 pm found them and after finding both of them were kept under
custody of one Maldar Hussain of Suapata Pt. V and informed about the
matter to guardians of accused Hasen Ali. To this fact informant Amzad Ali
lodged the ejahar before Bilasipara PS.
Investigation

2. Officer-in-charge of Bilasipara police station on receiving the ejahar
from Amzad Ali registered a police case vide Bilasipara Police Case No.
488/17 under section 120(B)/366(A) IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act and SI
Indreswar Pathak was entrusted to conduct the investigation of the case and
after completion of investigation I/O submitted charge sheet against the
accused person named herein above u/s 120(B)/366(A) IPC r/w section 4 of
POCSO Act.

Charge

ey After hearing learned counsel for both sides and perusal of material
on record charge u/s 366(A) IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act was framed
against the accused person Hasen Ali and when charges are read over and
explained to the accused person he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.
Trial

4. In order to prove the prosecution charges against the accused person,
prosecution adduce evidence of all together 2 number of witnesses and
exhibited 1 no of document. PW-1 Amzad Ali, PW-2 Victim. Ext-1 statement
of victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. After closure of the prosecution evidence,
statement of the accused person recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Accused plea is
denial, however declined to adduced evidence in support of the plea of

denial.
3|Page

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:-

i) Whether victim was minor( below 18 years of age) on 22-05-17?

ii) Whether accused on 22-05-17 at about 06.30 pm at village Suapata

Pt. IV under Bilasipara PS induced victim from her house with intent that

she may be or knowing that she might be forced or seduced to illicit

intercourse with accused?

iii) Whether accused on 22-05-17 at about 06.30 pm at village Suapata

Pt. IV under Bilasipara PS committed penetrative sexual assault on victim?

ARGUMENT

6. I have heard learned counsel for both sides. It has been argued by
the Id. defence counsel prosecution miserably failed to establish the
prosecution charge leveled against the accused as because according to
victim no such incident took place as alleged in the ejahar and according to
witnesses ejahar was lodged due to public pressure or as advised by the
villagers. Therefore, prosecution case against accused is not at all proved and

accused entitled acquittal.

DISCUSSION, DECISION & REASON THERE OFF:-
7. Prosecution allegation leveled against accused is that accused on 22-
05-17 at about 06.30 pm at village Suapata Pt. IV under Bilasipara PS

induced victim from her house with intent that she may be or knowing that

 

she might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with accused and on the
same day at village Suapata Pt. IV accused had committed penetrative sexual
assault on victim. In this case prosecution adduced evidence of informant and
victim only. PW-2, being victim of this case, she is the star witness of this
case. Now let me analyze evidence on record.

8. PW-1 Amzad Ali is the informant of this case. His evidence is that
victim is his daughter and accused hail from his village. He deposed there
was love affairs in between his daughter and accused. On the day of incident
he heard one incident of hue and cry took place with regard to the love
affairs of his daughter and accused. Accordingly he came to home and one
village mel was held to discuss it and as advised by villagers he lodged the
ejahar wherein he put his thumb impression. In cross he stated at the time
of incident his daughter was 18 years old and his daughter was in love with
accused. He stated his daughter went to meet accused at his house but did

not find him at his home and she told villagers that she came to meet
4|Page

accused. He stated no physical relation was took place in between his
daughter and accused and he lodged the ejahar as advised by the villager
and subsequently his daughter married accused.

9, PW-2 is the victim of this case. She deposed informant is his father.
She deposed she was in love with accused and she visited to the house
accused and at that time as she was un-married, public held her and called
for a meeting where her father was also called for. Thereafter as per
resolution of said meeting her father lodged the case. She deposed after
lodging of case she was medically examined and police produced her before
the court where she made her statement vide Ext 1 and put her signatures
on Ext 1 vide Ext 1(1) and 1(2). In cross she stated she can’t recall the
statement she made earlier before the magistrate. She stated after aforesaid
incident she married accused and she is living with accused happy married
life. She further stated no such incident as alleged in the ejahar took place
with her and her father lodged ejahar due to public pressure.

10. As per radiological report approximate age of the victim is 17 to 18
years. PW-1 is father and he stated his victim daughter was 18 years old at
the time of incident. Victim before court stated she is 19 years old. Her
evidence recorded on 28-02-18. Incident was took place on 22-05-18. That
shows victim was 18 years old on the day of incident. Radiological age is not
conclusive proof of age of a person. Father of the victim claimed that his
daughter was 18 years old. PW-1 being father of alleged victim must have
concrete knowledge about his child. When statement of PW-1 and PW-2 read
together, it shows PW-2 was major at the time of incident. Therefore from
the evidence on record, I am constrained to hold that PW-2 was not a minor
under the age of 18 years at the time of incident.

11. From the scanning of evidence of PW-1 informant and PW-2 alleged
victim it is reveal that PW-2 and accused are in love affairs and as PW-2
being unmarried girl visited the house of accused, public held her and
meeting was held in the village and as per meeting father of victim lodged
the ejahar. Neither PW-2 nor informant whispered that accused had
kidnapped her from her house and after kidnapping her sexually assaulted
her or had any physical contact with her or sexual intercourse with her or did
any act which is falls within the ambit of penetrative sexual act. More so, PW-
2 was not a minor at the time of incident. Evidence of PW-2 further shown
she could not recollect what statement she earlier made before the

Magistrate. Therefore, it is apparent that victim did not supported and
5|Page

corroborated the statements made by her u/s 164 Cr.P.C and Ext-1 does not
make any improvement in the case against the accused in absence of the
corroboration from the statement of the victim.

12. To prove charge u/s 366A IPC prosecution must bring on record
following ingredient i. the accused induced a minor girl below the age of 18
years; ii. she was induced to go from any place or to do any act; iii. she was
induced with the intent that she might be or knowing it to be likely that she
would be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with another person and
foremost ingredients of section 4 of POCSO Act is victim must be a minor
below the age of 18 years. Here in this case PW-2 was 18 years of age at the
time of incident. That means she was a major girl. Thus, evidence of PW-1
and PW-2 does not point any material against the accused person and from
their evidence not a single ingredient of section 366 (A) of IPC and section 4
of POCSO Act coming out against the accused Hasen Ali.

13, In view of my discussion, and on scrutiny of the evidence on record, I
come to my definite finding that prosecution totally failed to bring home
charge u/s 366(A) I.P.C r/w section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused
person Hasen Ali accordingly he is acquitted from the charge of section u/s
366(A) I.P.C r/w section 4 of POCSO Act and is set at liberty.

14. Bail bond of accused person will remain stands for next six (6) months
u/s 437(A) Cr.P.C.

15. Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 04" day of April, 2018

at Bilasipara.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Dictated and Corrected by me,
(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Typed by,
Swmkhwr Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.
6|Page

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

PW-1 Amzad Ali,
PW-2 Victim.

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Statement of victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITES :- NIL
COURT EXHIBITES ~ :- NIL
COURT WITNESS " NIL

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
