 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 56 (T) of 2017

U/s 4 POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM — aa caeececceeceeeeeeeenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Sojit Choudhury
S/o- Sri Jayanto Choudhury
R/o- Tongona T.E. Line No. 12
P.S- Tongona
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM ok. eeeeeeeeeee tees eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,
Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the State

Sri Munna Kr. Singh,
Advocat@  —__hiasaueveveueeueueees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 05/01/2019

Date of Judgment: 21/01/2019

U D GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1; The prosecution case against the accused lies within a
short campus. It is alleged that on the day of occurrence, he
had inserted his finger to the vagina of a 8 years old girl.

2. During the period of investigation, the victim girl was
subjected to medical examination. The Doctor's report goes
like this:-

"Menstrual history- She has not attained her menarche.
She was oriented in space and time. Dentition - 24.
Examination for injuries - There was no_ injury. Local
examination of genital parts- External genitals- no abrasion,
swelling, tear, edema or bruise present. Labia majora and
minora - No scratch, finger nail mark, infection seen.
Fourchette - No bleeding, tear present. Vulva - no bleeding or
injury present. Hymen- torn. Vagina and cervix- no bleeding,
tear, tenderness and edema noticed. Tenderness was noticed
on per vaginal examination. Two vaginal swabs taken and as
per report, supplied vaginal smear doe not show any
spermatozoa. Radiological opinion on her age- her age is
between 8 to 11 years."

a The victim girl also gave a statement u/s 164 Cr.PC.
She stated before the Magistrate that one evening, while she
was Standing on the road, one person called Ajit called her to
his house. She has stated that the aforesaid Ajit removed her
pants and inserted his two fingers into her vagina. The victim
girl further stated before the Magistrate that while the
aforementioned Ajit was doing all those things to her, another
person named Roghu was standing near by, though he did not
do anything to her.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

4. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed penetrative sexual

assault upon the victim?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as 8 witnesses,
including the Doctor, who had examined the victim girl at the
time of investigation and the Police Investigating Officer. The
defence plea is total denial. | have carefully gone through the

prosecution evidences.

6. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up
the evidence of the victim girl. She has stated in her evidence
that she knew the accused for a long time. But on the day of
occurrence, she met the accused in the house of Roghu. She
has stated that the accused lubricated his fingers with his
saliva and thereafter inserted his finger into her vagina. The
victim girl further stated that after the said occurrence, she
immediately returned home and informer her mother about
the said occurrence and her mother accordingly lodged an
ejahar before police.
7. Now, | shall take up the evidence of the mother of the
victim girl. She has stated in her evidence that on the day of
occurrence at about 4 pm she had returned home from work
and at that time her daughter had gone out of the house to
play. The mother has stated that at about 4.30pm _ her
daughter returned home crying. She informed her mother that
the accused had inserted his fingers into her vagina. The
mother of the victim girl has stated that she immediately went
to the house of Roghu along with her daughter, but she could
not find the accused there.

8. The other non-official witnesses are Rajen Tanti, Smti
Philisita, Sri Sohan Kanda and Sri Saban Purty.

9. The witness Rajen Tanti has stated in his evidence that
he asked the victim girl about the occurrence. She told him
that the accused had teased her only.

10. The witness Philisita has stated in her evidence that the
victim girl told her that the accused had committed rape upon
her.

11. The witness Sohan Kanda has stated in his evidence
that when he heard about the occurrence, he had asked the
accused about the same and to that the accused reportedly
told him that he did not do any such thing. According to Sohan
Kanda, the accused told him that he only teased the victim

girl.

12. The witness Saban Purty has stated in his evidence that
he had asked the victim girl about the occurrence and she
stated before this witness that the accused had inserted his
fingers into her vagina.
13. The Police Investigating Officer spoke about the

investigation.

14. On scrupulous perusal of the prosecution evidences, it
is clear on the face of the record that except the victim girl
there are no eye witnesses to the occurrence. There is no
doubt that the victim girl was 8 years old at the time of
occurrence. The medical evidence adduced by Dr. Nitamoni
Khandait has revealed that there are tenderness in the vagina
of the victim girl. The hymen of the victim girl was also found
to be torn.

15. Here a question arises is as to whether the medical
evidence has supported the oral testimony of the victim girl.
The hymen of the victim girl can be torn because of many
other activities. A torn hymen does not prove that the girl was
subjected to sexual act. The Doctor reported that tenderness
was noticed as per vaginal examination. There is no quarrel
with the proposition of fact that tenderness in the vagina

never proves sexual assault.

16. Here in this case, the occurrence took place while a
person named Roghu was present at the place of occurrence.
This court made an endeavor to examine this witness, but
failed in that task.

17. The victim girl, her mother, Philisita, Sohan Kanda and
Saban Purty have been cross examined by the defence
counsel. There is no materials in the cross examination of the

mother of the victim girl.

18. The victim girl stated before the defence counsel that
at the relevant time of occurrence, she was not wearing any

pant. She also admitted that she was trained by her mother as
to how to depose evidence. She also stated that at the time of
giving statement to police and to the Magistrate, her mother
had trained her.

19. The cross examination of Philisita, Sohan Kanda and
Saban Purty do not contain any relevant materials.

20. Here in this case, | have already stated that the victim
girl is the only eye witness to the occurrence and she is a child
of only eight years.

21. In| Panchhi & Ors vs. State of U.P : (1998) 7 SCC
177, the Supreme Court has held --

The evidence of child is required to be evaluated carefully
because he is an easy prey to tutoring. Therefore, always the
court looks for adequate corroboration from other evidence to
his testimony.

22. In State of U.P. v. Ashok Dixit [2000 (3) SCC70O], it
has been observed in paragraph 9:

"Law is well settled that evidence of a child witness must be
evaluated carefully as a child may be swayed by what others
tell him and as an easy prey to tutoring. Wisdom requires that
evidence of a child witness must find adequate corroboration
before it is relied on (see Panchhi v. State of U.P.). However it
is a question of fact in each case, and there is no universal
rule that the evidence of a child witness, even if it cannot be
dislodged on the test of facts and probabilities of a particular
case can never be sufficient for convicting an accused without
corroboration.

23. In Suryanarayana ..vs.. State of Karnataka 2001
Cri.L.J. 705 The evidence of the child witness must find
adequate corroboration before it is relied upon as the rule of
corroboration is of practical wisdom than of law (vide Prakash
v. State of M.P. 1992 (4) SCC 225, Baby Kandayanathi v. State
of Kerala 1993 Supp (3) SCC 667; Raja Ram Yadav v. State of
Bihar, 1996 (9) SCC 287; Dattu Ramrao Sakhare v. State of
Maharashtra 1997 (5) SCC 341).

24. The Supreme Court, in State of M.P. v. Ramesh and
Anr, reported in (2011) 4 SCC 786) has examined the law
relating to deposition by Child Witnesses. While examining the
law on the aspect the Court has observed that the deposition
of a child witness may require corroboration, but in case his
deposition inspires the confidence of the Court and there is no
embellishment or improvement therein, the Court may rely
upon his evidence. The evidence of a child witness must be
evaluated more carefully with greater circumspection because
he is susceptible to tutoring. Only in case there is evidence on
record to show that a child has been tutored, the Court can
reject his statement partly or fully. However, an inference as to
whether the child has been tutored or not, can be drawn from
the contents of his deposition.

25. Coming back to the case in hand, | am of the
considered opinion that without any corroboration, the
evidence of the victim girl cannot be accepted in its face
value. | have no doubt that it will not be safe to accept her
evidence without any corroboration. Under the aforesaid
circumstances, | hereby hold that the prosecution evidence
failed to inspire confidence and accordingly failed to prove the
offence against the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.
ORDER

26. In the result, the accused Sri Sojit Choudhury is found
not guilty and accordingly the accused is acquitted from this

Case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
21st day of January, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia

A P P_ EN DIX
PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Dr. Nitamoni Khandait
2. PW2

3. PW3 -

4. PW4 -

5. PW5 -

6. PWo -

7. PW7 -

8. PW8 -

Smti Barjinia Naag
Smti Karina Naag
Sri Rajen Tanti
Smti Philisita

Sri Sohan Kanda
Sri Saban Purty

Sri Jiten Gohain, S.|

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1-

2. Ext. 2-
3. Ext. 3-
4. Ext. 4 -
5. Ext. 5 -
6. Ext. 6 -

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Medical report

Radiological report with X-ray plates
Laboratory report

Ejahar

Sketch map

Charge sheet

Special Judge

Tinsukia
