IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: ShriS. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 36 (DH) 2018.
U/S 366/342/323 of IPC R/W Sec.8 of POCSO Act.

 

The State of Assam
- Versus —

Shri Kiran Dutta,

S/O Kula Dutta,

Vill. No.2 Nagaon (Ganak Gaon)

P.S. Dhemaji

Dist.- Dhemaji, assesses Accused Person
Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,

Public Prosecutor ws sseuseaeees For the State

Shri B.Gogoi,

Advocate ceaatstnssnetns For the Accused

‘Date of prosecution evidence : 07-12-2018.
Date of argument : 18-01-2019.

Date of Judgment : 04-02-2019.
JUDGMENT

kL. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 21-05-2018
complainant- Smti Lili Phukan lodged an ejahar with Dhemaji Police Station
alleging interalia that on that day i.e. on 21-05-2018 at about 10 AM while
her (complainant’s) daughter -Smti Queen Phukan was coming to the
Moridhal College from her house at Simen CHapari by train and while she got
down from the train at Moridhal Rly. Station, the accused-Kiran Dutta met
her on the railway station and forcibly took her on his bike to his house and
kept her confined and asked her whether she loves her or not and he also
tried to kill her by fastening her neck with a bed-sheet. It is also alleged in
the ejahar that the accused assaulted her by fist-blow and kick, and also torn
her wearing clothes. However, her daughter (victim) managed to escape from

the clutch of the accused.

a: On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused person u/s 366(A)342/323 of IPC R/W Sec. 8 of
the POCSO Act.

2 On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 366/342//323 of IPC R/W Sec. 8 of
POCSO Act and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not
guilty. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined two witnesses.
At the closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused person
was recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the
defence adduced no evidence in support of their case.

4, Point for determination :

(1) That you, on 21-05-2018 at about 10 AM at MoridhalRailway
Station under Dhemaji Police Station, you kidnapped/abducted Smti
))
ae

gpocial Judge
prema

Queen Phukan, a minor girl aged about 17 years on a bike with intent
that she might be compelled to marry you against her will, or that she
might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby you

committed an offence punishable u/s 366 of IPC.

(2) That, you on the same day at same time wrongfully
confined the said Queen Phukan, a minor girl aged about 17 years in
your house at NO.2 Na-gaon, Moridhal under Dhemaji Police Station
and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 342 of IPC.

(3) That, you on the same day at same time in your house at
NO.2 Na-gaon, Moridhal under Dhemasji Police Station, voluntarily
caused hurt to Smt. Queen Phukan, a minor girl aged about 17 years
and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 323 of IPC.

(4) That, you on the same day at same time in your house at
NO.2 Na-gaon, Moridhal committed sexual assault on Smti Queen
Phukan, a minor girl aged about 17 years and thereby you committed
an offence punishable u/s 8 of POCSO Act.

ai I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

Appreciation of evidence :
6. PW1 Smt. Queen Phukan is the victim girl. She stated that the

complainant is her mother. She knows the accused. The incident took place
about 6/7 months back. On the date of occurrence she was going to college
along with her friends by train. When she got down at Moridhal train station,
she met accused Kiran Dutta. He also studied in their college. He told her
that he will drop her at college on his bike. She got on to his bike and
accused drove the bike, but he changed the direction. Instead of taking her
to the college he took her to his house. She raised objection and then he
took her back to college. Her parents came to know about the action of the
accused and they lodged complaint. However, she told her parents that
accused did not physically abuse her. After filing of the case they decided not
to proceed further against the accused as he did not do any tangible harm to
her. They are now maintaining cordial relation with the accused.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that she has no objection if

the accused is acquitted in this case.

Fi PW2 Smti Lili Phukan stated that she is the complainant. She
knows the accused. Victim is her daughter. The incident took place about 6/7
months back. On the date of occurrence her daughter was going to college
along with her friends by train. When she got down at Moridhal train station,
she met accused Kiran Dutta. He also studied in her college. He told her
daughter that he will drop her at college on his bike. She got on to his bike
and accused drove the bike, but he changed the direction instead of taking
her to the college, he took her to his house. She raised objection and then he
took her back to college. They came to know about the action of the accused
and she lodged complaint. However, she told them that accused did not
physically abuse her. After filing of the case they decided not to proceed
further against the accused as he did not do any tangible harm to her
daughter. They are now maintaining cordial relation with the accused. Ext.1
is ejahar. Ext.1(1) is her signature.

In cross- examination PW2 stated that she has no objection if
the accused is acquitted in this case.

8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that
in this case the victim- Queen Phukan and the complainant-Smti Lili Phukan
were examined as P.W-1 and PW2 respectively. In their evidence this two
vital witnesses stated that the incident took place about 6/7 months back. On
¥
| Judge,
a

yp

the date of occurrence the victim was going to college along with her friends
by train. When she got down at Moridhal Railway Station, she met accused
Kiran Dutta. He also studied in her college. He told her daughter that he will
drop her at college on his bike. She got on to his bike and accused drove the
bike, but he changed the direction instead of taking her to the college, he
took her to his house. She (victim) raised objection and then he took her
back to college. Parents of the victim came to know about the action of the
accused and the mother of the victim (PW2) lodged complaint. However, the
victim told her parents that accused did not physically abuse her. After filing
of the case they (PWs-1 and 2) decided not to proceed further against the
accused as he did not do any tangible harm to her i.e. the victim. They are
now maintaining cordial relation with the accused. Ext.1 is ejahar lodged by
the complainant and Ext.1(1) is her signature. In cross- examination, both
the witnesses (PW1 & PW2) stated that they have no objection if the accused
is acquitted in this case. Prosecution side declined to examine the remaining
witnesses on the ground that examination of other witnesses will not improve

the prosecution case at all.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences. This is a case of no evidence. It is also seen from the
evidence of the PWs- 1 and 2 that both the parties have compromised the
case outside the Court and hence they have not deposed against the
accused. I find that the prosecution has totally failed to prove the charges
u/S 366/342/323 of IPC read with Sec.- 8 of the POCSO Act against the
accused.

10. In view of the above, I find the accused-Kiran Dutta not guilty
u/s 366/342/323 of the I.P.C. read with Section-8 of POCSO Act. Accordingly,
he is acquitted of the charges leveled against him. Set him at liberty
forthwith.
11. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.

12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 4% day

of February/2019. 9
\
ou

sd )

Special Judge,
p wd :
