IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act Case No. 13 OF 2015.

Under Section 457/376(2)(i) I.BC. read
with section 4 of P.O.C.S.O0.Act,2012

Present:- Smti. C.R.Goswami, A,J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta
State of Assam.
-versus-

Sahed Ali ... Accused

APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Mr. A. Kayem, learned P.P.
For the accused : Mr. N.M.H.Rahman, learned Advocate.

Evidence recorded on : 04-02-2016,07-04-201606006-2016
& 14-09-2016

Argument heard on : 03-12-2016

Judgment delivered on: 17-12-2016.

UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that on 11-09-2019 one
Rahimuddin lodged an F.I.R. alleging that on 09-09-2015 at about 12.00
mid-night,while he was sleeping accused Sahed Ali entered into his
house cutting the rope of the door and committed rape on his daughter
Sahida Begum. Then he raised hue and cry,got up and caught hold the
accused person. In the mean time the neighbouring people arrived in
his house and one Nandu Mia got release the accused person on bail.
At that time the age of the victim was 12 years.

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
2

sheet against the accused person under section 457/376(2)(i) I.P.C.
read with section 4 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012.

3. The accused person appeared before this court, copies were
furnished to him and after hearing both the parties, charges were
framed against the accused person under section 457/376(2)(i) I.P.C.
read with section 4 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012.

4. Charges were read over and clearly explained to the accused
person to which he has pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.
5. In course of hearing prosecution has examined as many as two
witnesses including the M/O and I/O. The accused person is examined
under section 313 Cr.P.C. He declines to adduce evidence.

6. Points for determination:-

(1) Whether the accused person on 09-09-2015 at about 12.00
midnight at Kanara gaon under the jurisdiction of Barpeta Police
Station, committed lurking house trespass by night by entering into the
house belonging to Rahim Uddin and used as a human dwelling after

sun set and before sunrise in order to commit an offence ?

(2) | Whether the accused person on the same date,time and
place, committed rape on the victim Shahida Begum, aged about 12
years, daughter of the informant, Rahim Uddin ?

(3) | Whether the accused person on the same date,time and
place, committed sexual assault on the victim girl Shahida Begum,
aged about 12 years ?
Decision and reasons thereof:

7. The allegation against the accused person is that on 09-09-2015
at 12.00 midnight he criminally entered into the house of informant
Rahimuddin and committed rape on his daughter Sahida Begum who
was aged about 12 years.

8. The informant as P.W.2 has deposed that about 7 months ago on
the date of occurrence the victim was sleeping in a separate bed. On
that night the accused person entered into their house by cutting the
rope of their door and committed rape on the victim by gagging her
mouth. Hearing the shouting of the victim they got up from bed and
3

the accused was caught red handed by his wife. Hearing their hue and
cry neighbouring people arrived in his house. Nandu Mia came and
assuring to call a bichar on the next day took away the accused
person. But there after no bichar was held. The victim reported him
about the commission of rape.

In his cross examination he has stated that they have five
children. Their all seven members are staying in the same house.
They have only one room which is 10'ft x 15'ft. There are two beds and
each bed is 3'ft x 6 1/2'ft. There was no electric connection in his
house. The year of birth of the victim is 1997. The accused is not his
co-villager. His village is at a distance of 20/30 K.Ms. from his village.
He did not know the accused person prior to the occurrence. They
wanted to take decision to settle the matter by giving marriage the
victim and if the accused paid the money for marriage of his daughter
he would not file the case. Nandu Mia is his neighbour. Abul Kalam and
Nandu Mia knew about the occurrence. He does not know what is
written in the F.I.R. AS per saying of the police the F.I.R. was written.
Police came to his house after 2/3 days of the occurrence. Police saw
the door, but he does not know what was seized by the police. The
‘'Gamocha’' was taken by the accused. The victim was sleeping in one
bed and the remaining six persons were sleeping in one bed. He did
not see the commission of rape on the victim.

9. According to the Medical officer,P.W.1 while the victim was
examined he found one abrasion on right fore arm caused by blunt
object which is simple in nature.

10. Corroborating the statement of P.W.2 his wife Jahiron Nessa as
P.W.4 has also deposed that on the night of occurrence the accused
person committed rape on the victim and she caught hold the accused
person inside the house. At the time of occurrence the victim was 12
years old and her birth certificate was handed over to the police. .

In her cross examination she has corroborated the P.W.2 by
saying that their house is 10'ft x 15'ft.and there are two beds, one is
3'ft x 6 %' ft. There was no electric connection. But contradicting P.W.2
she has stated that there are two rooms in their house, one is bed-
room and the other is kitchen. She has further stated that the accused
4

never visited their house. He hails from the village which is situated at
a distance of about 20/22 Kms. from her house. She did not see the
commission of rape. The victim also did not see the accused prior to
the occurrence.Police entered into the house and saw the door, but the
door was not seized. Nandu,Kalam and Sayed knew about the
occurrence. Victim was sleeping in one bed and the other six members
were sleeping in another bed.If some unknown person enter into their
house at night then he could not know who was sleeping where. Her
husband demanded an amount of Rs.20,000/- from the accused and if
the amount is paid then he would not file the case.

11. The victim as P.W.4 has deposed that on the night of occurrence
she was sleeping alone in a bed. Her parents and other family
members were sleeping in another bed. At about 12 mid-night the
accused entered into their house by cutting the rope of their door and
committed rape on her gagging her mouth. When the accused released
her she made hue and cray and then her parents caught hold the
accused inside the house. In the mean time Nandu, Kalam and Sayed
arrived in their house and then they came to know’ the name of the
accused Sayed Ali. Assuring to hold a bichar Nandu Mia took away the
accused person,but no bichar was held. Then her father filed the case.
Police produced her before the medical officer for examination and also
before the Magistrate for recording her statement under section 164
Cr.P.C. Her birth certificate was handed over to the _ police.

In her cross examination she has stated that they all the seven
family members are residing in the same house. The said house is also
used as kitchen. The house is very small, but she does not know the
measurement of the house. Usually some other members of her family
sleep with her. But on the night of occurrence she was sleeping alone.
Prior to the occurrence the accused never visited their house. She did
not know the accused even his name. He hails from different village.
She does not know her date of birth. The accused did not know who
were residing where inside their house. On the night of occurrence
Nandu Mia, Kalam and Sayed came to their house. She does not know
what is mean by 'rape'. The accused torn her wearing clothes. She
sustained injury on her back, chest and hand. The torn clothes and her
injury were shown to her parents. The blood stained clothes were also
shown to her mother and those clothes were taken by the police.But
the bed-sheet with blood stain was not taken by the police. The police
saw the door and the 'Gamocha' by which her mouth was gagged. But
the same are still in their house. Her father did not demand any money
from the accused in the bichar. While she was produced before the
medical officer for examination blood was oozing from her private
parts. The Medical officer saw her injuries on the body. But neither the
bandage nor any medicine was provided to her.The occurrence was
not taken place at 7.00 PM., it took place at 12.00 midnight. She made
the true statement before the Magistrate. She has denied that she has
stated before the Magistrate that the occurrence took place at 7.00
P.M.

12. The Medical officer who examined the victim is examined as
P.W.1 and she has opined that- (i)There was no sign of recent sexual
intercourse.(ii) No mark of any injury on her body part and (iii) Her age
is above 14 years and below 16 years.

In her cross examination she has admitted that the victim did not
mention in her history regarding the rape on her by one Sayed Ali. She
did not find any recent or past sign of sexual intercourse.
13. One Nandu Mia as P.W.5 has stated that the accused person is
residing in his house. About 9 months ago one day at 7/7.30 P.M., the
son of Rahimuddin called him to their house. The accused person
purchased one buffalo for the informant on his zimma. Relating to that
a quarrel took place and some villagers were also present there. He
asked the informant to give the money to the accused and there is no
necessity of any quarrel. There after Rahimuddin filed the case. After
2/2 Y2 months police asked him about the occurrence.The accused
stayed in his house to serve his buffalo. This witness is declared hostile
by the prosecution.

In his cross examination by prosecution he has denied that the
statement recorded under section 161 Cr.P.C. is his statement. In cross
examination by defence he has stated that he has no enmity with the
6

informant. The accused purchased a buffalo for the informant taking at

his zimma. While the accused had gone to ask for the said money he
was confined by the informant. While the accused had gone to ask for
money his son and some villagers also accompanied him. As the
informant assured to return the money they took the accused by
settling the matter. But there after instead of returning the money the
informant has filed the case. The statement which are recorded by the
police under section 161 Cr.P.C. are not his statement. Those are the
statement of the police.

14. Abul Kalam as P.W.6 has also corroborated the P.W.5 by saying
that about 9 months ago one day at about 7/7.30 P.M. he was called by
the son of Rahimuddin. Going to the house of the informant
Rahimuddin he found the accused and his son. The accused and the
informant were making altercation regarding the money of purchasing
buffalo. He told that on the next day the bichar will be held. Then the
accused returned with them. On the next day no bichar was held as
the informant did not appear. This witness is also declared hostile by
the prosecution.

In cross examination by prosecution he has denied that the
statement which is recorded by the police under section 161 Cr.P.C. is
his statement.

In his cross examination by defence he has stated that he has no
enmity with the informant. The altercation took place when the
accused had gone to recover the amount of purchasing buffalo. The
son and some other persons were along with the accused. He and
Nandu were called by the informant. As the informant assured that he
would pay the money on the next day they took away the accused. But
on the next day the informant instead of giving the money filed the
false case. Except the statement that Rahimuddin had to give money
to the accused no other statement was made by him before the
police.This is a false case.

15. The Investigating officer as PW.7 has exhibited the F.I.R. as Ext.3
and the charge sheet as Ext.4.

In his cross examination he has stated that he recorded the
statement of informant Rahimuddin in connection with the G.D.Entry.
The cause of delay in filing the F.I.R. is not explained either in G.D.Entry
or in FI.R. In the statement of the victim recorded under section 164

Cr.P.C. the victim has stated that the occurrence took place at 7.00 P.M.
He did not seize any door, rope or any portion of bamboo at the place
of occurrence as he did not find any door in damaging state He has
mentioned in his Sketch map that he did not find any sign of
commission of any occurrence at the place of occurrence. He did not
seize any blood stained clothes as no such clothes were produced
before him. The victim is an illiterate and he did not procure any birth
certificate of the victim. There was no electric connection in the house
of the victim. They have stated that they could identify the accused on
the strength of Solar light. He did not show the presence of Solar light
in his sketch map. He did not seize any Solar light. He did not mark the
place wherein the accused was confined. The 'Gamocha' by which the
mouth of the victim was gagged was not shown to him and so he did
not seize the same. He has admitted that he did not paginate the case
diary and he does not know whether statement of the witnesses can
be recorded in the loose sheet according to Police Manual.

16. In course of argument the learned counsel for the defence has
submitted that admittedly, the house of the informant is 10'ft. X 15'ft.
and there are 2 beds in the said room measuring 3'ft x 6 ¥%' ft.each. It
is also admitted fact that the family of the informant is consisted of
7 ,members. In one bed the victim was sleeping alone. In another bed
the remaining 6 members were sleeping. It cannot be believed that ina
bed measuring 3'ft x 6 %' ft. 6 persons can sleep at the night. Further
more, P.W.2,P.W.3 and P.W.4 i.e. the parents and the victim themselves
have stated that they did not know’ the accused prior to the
occurrence. They even did not know the name of the accused. The
accused had no visiting term in their family. There was no electricity

connection in their house. Then how an unknown person could identify
8

wherein the victim was sleeping. The version of P.W.2,P.W.3 and P.W.4
are not at all believable. Further more according to P.W.2,P.W.3 and
P.W.4 hearing their shouting their neighbourers Abul Kalam, Nandu Mia
and Sayed Ali arrived at the place of occurrence and assuring to settle
the matter Nandu Mia took away the accused. But no meeting was
held. But in their cross examination they have admitted that the
informant demanded the amount from the accused. But as the accused
refused to pay any amount the informant has filed this case.

17. The learned counsel for the defence has further submitted that
Nando Mia and Abul Kalam who are the independent witnesses as P.W.5
and P.W.6 have totally denied the case of the prosecution. Both of them
have categorically stated that on the day of occurrence at about 7/7.30
P.M. they were called by the son of the informant as_ an altercation
took place in between the accused and the informant relating to the
money in respect of purchase of a buffalo. Further more, the victim has
also admitted in her statement recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C. that
the occurrence took place at 7.00 PM. Hence it is clear that
prosecution has filed a false case against the accused person.

18. After going through the evidences on record and the submission
of the learned defence counsel, it is found that the victim in her
statement recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C. recorded on 14-09-2015
has stated that the occurrence took place at about 7.00 P.M. But in the
deposition she has stated that the occurrence took place at 12.00 mid-
night and the same was corroborated by P.W.2 and 3 by saying that the
occurrence took place at 12.00 mid-night. Further, according to P.W.2
mother of the victim the wearing clothes of the victim was not torn and
there was no blood stain on the clothes of the victim. But contradicting
the said version the victim has stated that the accused torn her
wearing clothes. There was blood stain on her wearing clothes and the
bed sheets. Police took her wearing clothes, but not the bed sheets.
The gamocha by which her mouth was gagged was in their house. But
police did not take the same. But the I/O has contradicted the version
of P.W.3 by saying that no clothes with blood stain was shown to him
and he did not seize anything from the house of the victim. The victim
9

has further stated that she sustained injury on her chest,back and hand
and those injuries were shown to her parents. But her parents P.W.2
and PW.3 have not stated anything regarding her injury and the
medical officer(P.W.1) has also not supported the same. That being the
position, it is found that PRW.2, PW.3 and P.W.4 have concealed some
material fact and so they have contradicted each other. Further more,
the statement which are made by the victim in the court is not stated
by her either in her statement recorded under section 161 Cr.PC. or
under section 164 Cr.P.C. Regarding the age according to the victim
and her mother, the birth certificate was given to the police. But the
I/,0 has denied the same and he has not produced any birth certificate
before the court. The neighbouring people who arrived at the place of
occurrence Nandu Mia and Abul Kalam as P.W.5 and 6 have
categorically stated that on the day of occurrence at about 7.00 PM.
the son of the informant called them to his house and coming there
they saw an altercation was going on in between the accused and the
informant relating to the money of purchasing a buffalo purchased on
zimma of the accused. At that time the son of the accused and some
other persons were also with the accused person. As the informant
assured that he would make the payment on the next day they took
away the accused person. But on the next day the informant in stead
of making the payment has filed a case on the basis of some false
allegation. Both these two witnesses are declared hostile witness. But
their statements are not confronted with the I/O. Hence, the said
evidence is to be  used~ against the _ prosecution.

19. From the above discussions it is found that the allegation of the
informant that occurrence took place at about 12.00 midnight is
doubtful as the victim herself has stated that the occurrence took place
at 7.00 P.M. and the same is supported by P.Ws.5 and 6. Further more,
the P.W.2,3 and 4 themselves have stated that if the accused person
had made payment as demanded by the informant he would not file
the case. Further more, the story of PW.2 and 3 that the accused
person being an unknown person entered into their house at midnight
and committed rape on the victim is also not believable. P.W.2,3 and 4
have themselves stated that the accused person hails from a different
10

village which is situated at a distance of 20/30 K.Ms. From their village.
20. Under such circumstances, it is clear that prosecution has failed
to prove beyond all reasonable doubt that the accused person has
committed any offence. Hence. The accused is acquitted and set at
liberty.

21. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety is
extended for another period of six months from the date of this
judgment under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

22. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section
365 Cr.P.C.

23. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 17th day of
December, 2016.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-
(Smti.C.R.Goswami) (Smti.C.R.Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge,Barpeta

APPENDIX.

(A)Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1. :Medical report.

Ext.1(1) :Sig. of RW.1

Ext.2 :FLR.

Ext.2(1)  :Sig. of S.I. Nripendra Sarmah
Ext.3 ‘Sketch Map

Ext.3(1)  :Sig.of Nripendra Sarmah
Ext.4 ‘Charge Sheet

Ext. 4(1) :Sig. of S.I. Nripendra Sarmah
(B)Defence Exhibits:Nil.
(C)Exhibits produced by witnesses:Nil.
(D)Court Exhibits:Nil.
(E)Prosecution witnesses:
11

P.W.1 :Dr.Bharati Das, M.& H.O.-I, F.A.A.Medical College &
Hospital,Barpeta

P.W.2 ‘Rahimuddin

P.W.3 :Mst.Jahiran Nessa
P.W.4 :Ms.Sahida Begum

P.W.5 :Nandu Minya
P.W.6 ‘Abul Kalam

P.W.7 :Nripendra Sarmah,Attached officer at Pathsala Out Post

(F)Defence witnesses:Nil
(G)Court witnesses:Nil

Sd/-
(Smti.C.R.Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta
