1

_IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 61/2019
U/S 365/376 I.P.C. R/W section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

PRESENT : Sri V. K. Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LLB., AJS,

Special Judge,
Barpeta.

State of Assam
- Vs -
Baharul Islam

Charge framed on:- 02.04.2019

Date of Recording Evidence on - 11.04.2019.
Date of Hearing Argument on - 12.04.2019.
Date of Delivering the Judgment on - 12.04.2019.
Appearance :
Advocate for the State-------------- Mr. Lalit Nath, Learned P.P.
Advocate for the Accused---------- Md. Ayen Uddin Ahmed, Learned
Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that, on 10.02.2019 at about
10 A.M. the minor daughter of informant namely (X) went to school
with her friend Rajina Khatun on the occasion of Sarswati Puja. At
about 11 P.M. on the way accused named in the FIR kidnapped the
victim and brought her to Basbari forest and raped her. Thereafter,
nearby people caught them and handed over them to police. Hence
the case.

2 Acting on the information police got a case registered being
Barpeta Road P.S. case No. 103/19 u/s 366(A)/376 |.P.C. R/W section
4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and investigated the case.
Z

3. On completion of investigation, police finally laid the charge
sheet against accused Baharul Islam _ u/s 365/376 I.P.C. R/W section 4
of POCSO Act, 2012 with a view to stand trial.

4. In due course, when accused entered his appearance in court
vide order dated 02.04.2019 all the particulars relating to the case
were furnished to accused. Thereafter, having heard the learned
counsel and on perusal of the record, having found a prima facie
case, charge u/s 365/376 I.P.C. R/W section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012,
were framed. The substance of the offences, on being, read over and
explained to the accused he pleaded not guilty and claim to stand
trial.

5. During the course of trial, the prosecution examined 3
witnesses namely the alleged victim as PW-1, Dr. Anima Boro as PW-
2, and Saban Ali as PW-3 respectively. However, considering the
nature of evidence adduce by these witnesses and after hearing the
learned P.P. further prosecution evidence was closed.

6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. The plea of the
accused is total denial of the prosecution case. As such, on being
asked accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

fs Now point for determination ;-

.1. Whether on 10.02.2019 at about 11 A.M. kidnapped the
minor daughter of informant, when she was returning from
Barpeta Road Block High School towards her home with
intent to cause the said victim to be secretly and
wrongfully confined and thereby committed an offence u/s
365 IPC ?

.2. Whether on the same day and time accused committed
rape on the victim girl as alleged and thereby committed
an offence u/s 376 IPC ?

.3. Whether on the same day and time accused committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl as alleged and
thereby committed an offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act ?
3

8. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-

 

| have heard the learned lawyers appearing for both sides and
also carefully scanned the prosecution evidence available on record.
S.. The learned counsel appearing for the State Sri Lalit Nath
submitted that though the prosecution examined 3 witnesses but the
court may pass judgment after assessment of evidence in view of
poor quality of evidence adduce by the prosecution witnesses.

10. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the
accused person vehemently contended that there is absolutely no
evidence at all implicating the accused person for recording
conviction for the offences u/s 365/376 I.P.C. R/W section 4 of POCSO
Act, 2012. According to the learned defence counsel, the prosecution
has failed to bring home the guilt of accused for sustaining
conviction for the aforesaid offences. As such, the learned counsel
prays to acquit the accused person.

11. In the context of the submission of the learned counsel
appearing for both sides it would be in the fitness of things to refer to
the charged sections against accused person.

“365. Kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and
wrongfully to confine person.- Whoever kidnaps or abducts any
person with intent to cause that person to be secretly and wrongfully
confined, shall be punished with imprisonment or either discription
for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable
to fine.”

“376. Punishment for rape. - Whoever, except in the
caswes provided for by sub-section (2), commits rape shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
Shall not be less than seven years but which may be for life or for a
term which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine
unless the women raped is his own wife and is not under twelve

years of age, in which cases, he shall be punished with imprisonment
4

of either description for a term which may extend to two years or
with fine or with both.”

“4, Punishment for penetrative sexual assault. - Whoever
commits penetrative sexual assault shall be punished’ with
imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less
then 7 years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and
Shall also be liable to fine.”

12. Now, on perusal of the offence u/s 365/376 I.P.C. R/W_ section
4 of POCSO Act and having heard the learned counsels appearing for
both sides and on careful perusal of the evidence available on record
particularly the evidence of the alleged victim PW-1 it transpires that
on the occasion of Saraswati Puja, she went to her school at 10 A.M.
along with her friend Marjina Khatun. Thereafter, the victim called
the accused by telephone and when accused came, she told him to
take her for traveling. When they reached the Fatemabad Tea Stall
three boys caught them and handed over to police. Thereafter, her
father lodged the case against accused. Police sent her to the
learned court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. before
Magistrate. Ext.1 is her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and
Ext.1(1) & 1(2) are her signatures. She did not speak anything about
the incident not to speak of commission of the penetrative sexual
assault against her. From her evidence nothing can even be inferred
even remotely that accused had committed the offence u/s 365/376
I.P.C. R/W section 4 of POCSO Act.

13. PW-2, the Medical officer, in her evidence stated on
27.02.2019 she was working as Lady Medical Officer, at FFAMCH,
Barpeta. On that day the victim was brought before her for medical
examination but victim refused her medical examination. Ext.2 is her
report and Ext.2(1) is her signature.

14. PW-3 Saban Ali, the father of the victim deposed that on that
day he was at in his shop. On the day of incident police telephoned
him that his daughter was at police station. While he reached the
5

police station his daughter told him that she was having love affairs
with accused. Ext.3 is the FIR and Ext.3(1) is his signature.

15. Therefore, after appreciation of evidence of the star witnesses
namely the alleged victim girl, the informant, this court was of the
considered view that proceeding further with the case for recording
evidence of remaining prosecution witnesses would be the sherer
waste of valuable time and energy of the court which would in the
estimation of the court would bring no fruitful result in the final
count.

16. The above being the position, this court has no option but to
acquit the accused Baharul Islam from the charges u/s 365/376 I.P.C.
R/W section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 on the ground of insufficient
evidence and set him at liberty forthwith.

17. Leta copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District
Magistrate, Barpeta as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.

18. Let case record be consigned to record room as per procedure.
19. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on 12th day of
April, 2019, at Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me

Sd/-
Sd/- (Sri V. K. Chandak)
(Sri V. K. Chandak) Special Judge,
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Barpeta.
APPENDIX
1. The prosecution has examined the following 4 nos. of
witnesses:-
PW-1 = _ is the victim.
PW-2 = is Dr. Anima Boro.
PW-3 = is Saban Ali, the informant.
2. The prosecution has exhibited certain documents :-
Ext. 1 = isthe statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. of victim.
Ext.1(1) &1(2) = are the signatures of the victim girl.
Ext.2. = is the medical report.
Ext.2(1) = is the signature of Dr. A. Boro.
Ext.3. = is the Ejahar.

Ext.3(1) & 3(2) = are the signatures of informant.

Sd/-

(Sri V.K. Chandak)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
