IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE, SI VASAGAR
Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS

Special J udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016
U/ S 457/ 342/ 323/34 1PC & Section 8 of POCSO Act 2012

(Arising out of Nazira P.S. Case No. 153/2016)
State of Assam
-Vs-

1. Sri Biki Bhumij
2. Sri Riki Bhumij

3. Sri Arun Karmakar @ Gurku ...... Accused persons
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
For the accused ; Mr. Bikash Puri, Advocate
Date of framing Charge: 31.10.2016
Dates of Evidence ; 27.01.2017, 21.03.2017, 07.06.2017,

14.12.2017
Date of S/D 25.01.2018
Date of Argument 07.03.2018
Date of J udgment 21.03.2018
UDGMENT

1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 01.08.2016, Sri Amar Keot

lodged an FIR with O/C, Nazira Model Police Station alleging, inter alia, that on
30.07.2016, at about 12 mid-night, while his 17 years old daughter victim 'K’
(name withheld) was sleeping in the house, accused Biki Bhumij entered into
the house by breaking open the window and after gagging her mouth, forcibly
took her to the nearby field, where accused Arun Karmakar @ Gurku and S.
Mali were waiting for them. Thereafter, they pulled her clothes with an

intention to outrage her modesty. At about 4.30 a.m., when the factory labours
Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 1 of 13
were returning, they kept the victim hidden where from she flew away. Out of
fear, victim did not inform the matter to his family members immediately. It is
also alleged that on 31.07.2016, at about 06.10 P.M. accused Riki Bhumij has
physically assaulted the victim with a bamboo fencing stick on her person. On
01.08.2016 in the morning hours, on seeing the swelling on the face of the

victim, on asking she narrated the incident to him.

2. On this FIR, Nazira P.S. Case No. 153/2016 U/S 448/342/325 IPC
and Section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and started investigation.
During investigation, victim was medically examined and recorded her
Statement in the court U/S 164 Cr.P.C. Accused persons namely Biki Bhumij,
Riki Bhumij, Arun Karmakar @ Gurku and S. Mali were arrested and remanded
to judicial custody. On completion of investigation, 1.0. has submitted Charge-
Sheet against the above named four accused persons U/S 448/342/325 IPC and
Section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012.

3. Accused persons namely Biki Bhumij, Riki Bhumij, Arun Karmakar
@ Gurku and S. Mali were produced before this court for trial as the case is
exclusively triable by the court of Special Judge. However, during trial, learned
counsel of the accused has taken the plea of juvenility regarding accused Sri S.
Mali, as such vide order dated 06.08.2016, learned C)M, Sivasagar was directed
to hold an enquiry regarding the actual age of the accused S. Mali and on
receipt of the report from learned CJM, Sivasagar and after affirming that on
the date of occurrence accused S. Mali was a juvenile, vide order dated
02.09.2016 case against him was referred to learned Principal Magistrate, JJ B,
Sivasagar and the case against other three accused persons proceeded before

this court.

4, Upon taking cognizance on the charge sheet, copies were
furnished to the accused persons and after hearing both sides, vide order dated
31.10.2016, my learned predecessor in office has framed the charges U/S 457/
342/323 IPC read with Section 34 IPC and Section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012
against the accused Sri Biki Bhumij, Sri Riki Bhumij and Sri Arun Karmakar @

Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 2 of 13
Gurku to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial. During trial,

prosecution side has examined six witnesses including the victim, M.O. & 1.0.

5. Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused were
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial and false implication.
Accused declined to adduce evidence when they were called upon to enter into

defence.

6. | have heard argument of learned Special P.P. Mr. Srimanta Gogoi
and Mr. Bikash Puri, learned defence counsel and gone through the evidence on

record. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

(1) Whether on 30.07.2016, at about 12 mid-night, accused
persons, in furtherance of their common intention committed
lurking house trespass by night by entering into the house of
the complainant?

(li) Whether from 12 mid-night of 30.07.2016 till 5.00 A.M. of the
next morning, accused persons in furtherance of their common
intention wrongfully confined the victim 'K' at Bamunpukhuri
football play ground?

(iil) Whether on 31.07.2016, accused persons in furtherance of
their common intention voluntarily caused hurt to victim 'K'?

(iv) Whether from 12 mid-night of 30.07.2016 till 5 am of the next
morning, accused persons committed sexual assault on the
victim 'K' with sexual intent?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

8. PW-1 Sri Amar Keot, the informant of this case in his evidence
deposed that accused Biki Bhumiz, Riki Bhumiz and Gurku @ Arun are known to
him. Victim K is his daughter. On 01.08.2016, while he was returning home
from work, he saw that his daughter K was about to go to school by wearing a
cloth on her face and on this he has enquired the reason for putting cloth on
her face. She reluctantly told him that yesterday at about 06.00 PM, while she
was returning from field after sowing paddy, accused Riki Bhumiz has physically

assaulted her. She also told him that after wrongfully restraining her, accused

Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 3 of 13
Riki has thrown a piece of brick which did not hit her. Thereafter accused has
assaulted her with bamboo fencing stick. Her daughter got injury on her back of
chest, face. She also told him that on 30.07.2016, at midnight hours, accused
Biki has forcibly took her through window to nearby football field. At that time
accused Riki was standing outside of her house, Arun was standing near gate
and S Mali (Juvenile) was near the school. She also told him that by taking her
to the field, the accused persons pulled her cloths and by seeing the labours
coming out of duty, she went back to home. Out of fear she did not inform the
matter to them on the same night. On this incident, he has lodged the FIR vide
Exbt.1. Police interrogated him. Police also took his daughter for medical
examination and brought her to Court for statement. At that time, his daughter
was aged below 17 years. In his cross by defence PW-1 admitted that he has
not seen the incident on his own and has no personal knowledge of the
incident. FIR was lodged on 1.08.2016. He has no knowledge if accused Arun
Karmakar has love affairs with victim K. He denied that he dislikes their
relationship. He also denied that on knowing about affairs, he has attempted to
assault the accused persons. He has six brothers. He has no knowledge if his
elder brother has physically assaulted his daughter. He has no knowledge if his
daughter left his house and stayed for three days with accused Arun Karmakar.
He denied that on knowing about this, he went to the house of accused Riki
and Biki, who are brothers. His residence is of bamboo fencing and kitchen is
brick wall fencing. Accused Riki, Biki and Arun are close friends and used to
move together. He further denied that while giving statement to police he has
not stated that “while he was returning home from work, he saw that his
daughter K was about to go to school by wearing a cloth on her face and on
this he has enquired the reason for putting cloth on her face. She reluctantly
told him that yesterday at about 6 PM, while she was returning from field after
sowing paddy, accused Riki Bhumiz has physically assaulted her. She also told
him that after wrongfully restraining her, accused Riki has thrown a piece of
brick which did not hit her. PW 1 also deposed that his brothers are residing

near to his residence. In his residence, beside him, his wife and 5 daughters are

Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 4 of 13
living. He has submitted age proof document at Police Station. He denied that

he has lodged false FIR without knowing incident.

9. PW-2 the victim K in her evidence deposed that accused Biki
Bhumiz, Riki Bhumiz and Gurku @ Arun are Known to her. On 30.07.2016, at
midnight hours, while she was sleeping in her residence alone in a separate
room, accused Biki has forcibly entered into her room by opening one window
and forcibly took her by putting a cloth on her face through window to nearby
football field. There she saw accused Riki, Biki and Arun @ Gurku were present.
She could recognise them in the light of Mandir. While she was attempted to
flee away, accused persons pulled her cloths. By this time some T.E. labours
coming out of their duty and on this accused persons kept themselves hidden.
She came back to her home. Out of fear, she did not inform the matter to her
family members on the same night. On next day morning i.e. on 31.07.2016, at
about 6 PM, while she was returning from field after sowing paddy, accused
Riki Bhumiz has restrained her and rebuked with filthy language and physically
assaulted her with bamboo fencing stick on her face, back of chest. Her
younger sister Minu Keot was with her and she has witnessed the incident of
assault. On returning home, she did not inform the matter to her parents. On
the next day morning, while she was going to school by hiding her face with
cloth, her father asked her about reasons for hiding of face and then she has
informed him about both the incidents. On this her father took her to Police
Station and lodged the FIR. Police got her medically examined. She gave her
statement in Court vide Exbt. 2. On that day, she has deposed in similar line as
deposed today. Police also seized her wearing apparels. In her cross by defence
victim stated that she has no love affairs with Arun Karmakar. However she
admitted that Exbt. A (1) to A(vii) are the letter written by her to accused Arun
Karmakar. Her parents dislike their relationship. She denied that on knowing
about affairs, her father has attempted to assault the accused persons. On
knowing their relationship, elder brother of her father has physically assaulted
her. Accused Riki, Biki and Arun are close friends and used to move together.

Riki and Biki are brothers. Prior to these incidents, once she went to the
Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 5 of 13
residence of sister of accused Arun and stayed there for 2 days. On 30.07.2016,
she was sleeping with her sister Mamoni. She denied that on 30.07.2016, she
has called Arun to meet her. However on that night Biki told her that Arun
came to meet her and on this she came out of her house to meet Arun. While
she attempted to return back, her sister has closed the door from inside under
misconception. Thereafter she went on her own to school field to meet Arun.
Suddenly some other person has flashed torch light and on this they get
themselves concealed. When Biki wanted to return to his house, Arun
requested him to put her to their house. Thereafter Arun and Biki accompanied
her to her house at about 5 AM. They spent the night near the school building.
Out of fear, she did not report the matter to her father. Victim further deposed
that her father dislikes the accused persons. Her father complained to the
mother of the accused persons by going to their house. On the next day Riki
and Biki came to their house to inquire why her father went to their house. Her
father threatened them to finish their love story very soon. Victim also denied
that she has falsely implicated the accused persons for assaulting her on
31.07.2016. She denied that accused persons did not assault her any day and
she got the injury by falling on slip while returning from field. She also denied
that out of fear of assault by her father, she has falsely implicated the accused

persons for the incidents. She denied that her father has lodged false FIR.

10. PW 3 Dr. Laba Dev Goswami in his evidence deposed that on
01.08.2016, while he was working at Nazira SHC as Medical Office, on that day,
at about 2.40 PM, he examined the victim K in connection with Nazira P.S. Case
No. 153/16 and found pain and inflammation present at left laterally of
upper lip, index finger of left hand, left shoulder joint and at back due to
striking with or against by blunt object. Upon examination he opined that the
injury was old and simple in nature. He proved his report as Ext.3. In his cross
he admitted that the injury was old and simple in nature such injury was

caused by blunt object.

Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 6 of 13
11. PW 4 Smt. Mamoni Keot in her evidence deposed that accused
Biki Bhumiz, Riki Bhumiz and Gurku @ Arun are known to her. J uvenile Sunu
Malik is also known to her. Victim K is her elder sister. On 30.07.2016, while her
sister K was sleeping with her, at night hours accused Biki Bhumiz entered into
their room by breaking open the wooden window and took away her sister K.
Accused Gurku was standing on the outside of the window. Out of fear, she
could not make any cry. After the incident, she went out of room and saw the
accused Gurku. After this, she informed the matter to her father by calling him
from sleep. Her father went in search of her sister. On the next morning her
sister returned home with injuries on her face. On inquiry she told that accused
Biki, Riki, Gurku and juvenile S Mali took her in the night in the nearby field and
pulled her cloths and torn her cloths. On being noticed by others, the accused
persons flew away and she returned home on early morning. On knowing
these, her father lodged the FIR. Police interrogated her at her residence. Police
seized one KURTI used by her sister vide Exbt. 4 the seizure list. In her cross
examination by defence PW-4 admitted that at the time of incident, she was
Sleeping with her sister. She has seen her sister in going out of the window but
She did not raise alarm. She denied that while giving statement to police she
did not inform that after the incident, she came out of the residence and saw
Gurku. She also denied that her sister has love affairs with accused Gurku @
Arun. She denied that her sister stayed for 2 days with accused. She also
denied that her sister by calling Arun went with him by opening the door and
thereafter she locked the door from inside. It is also denied by PW-4 that her
uncle assaulted her sister on the matter of maintaining affairs with accused

Arun Karmakar. She denied that she is deposing falsely.

12. PW-5 Smt. Sangita Keot in her evidence deposed that accused
Biki Bhumiz, Riki Bhumiz and Gurku @ Arun are known to her. Victim K Is her
eldest daughter. On 30.07.2016, K was reading in class |X and aged about 14
years. On the night of incident, her daughter K and Mamoni were sleeping
inside the room. On the next day morning Mamoni told her that on 30.07.2016

midnight hours accused Biki has forcibly took away her sister K by entering
Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 7 of 13
through window to nearby school field. By seeing the factory labours coming
out of duty, the accused persons flee away and K went back to home. On
asking her, she did not tell her anything except that she was taken by accused
Biki and her cloth were pulled by accused persons. On the next day while K was
assaulted by accused Biki, on this incident, her husband has lodged the FIR.
Police seized one KURTI of K. In her cross by defence PW 5 admitted that she
has not seen the incidents on her own and has no personal knowledge of the

incidents. She deposed basing on disclosure made by her daughters.

13. PW-6 SI Nurtaz Ali in his evidence deposed that on 01.08.2016,
while he was posted as second officer at Nazira PS, on that day, the then O/C
has received one written FIR from Sri Amar Keot and registered Nazira PS case
No. 153/16 u/s 448/342/325 IPC r/w Section 8 of POCSO Act and entrusted him
to investigate the case. On taking charge of investigation, he has examined the
informant and victim K at PS campus. Victim was sent for medical examination
to Nazira SHC. Thereafter, he went to the place of occurrence I.e. residence of
informant at Bamun Pukhuri Tengahora Gaon and drawn a sketch map of the
PO. Exbt. 5 is the said sketch map. Exbt. 6 (i) is his signature. He has also
examined witness found at the PO. On the next day, victim was sent to Court
for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On the next day, accused Biki
Bhumiz, Riki Bhumiz, Gorku @ arun Karmakar and S Mali appeared at the PS.
He arrested the accused persons and forwarded to Court. During investigation,
he seized one chocolate colour Kurti (torn) from the victim vide Exbt. 4 the
seizure list. He has collected the medical report and statement given by victim
in Court. During investigation, he has seen the birth certificate of victim which
Shows the date of birth as 18.09.1999. On completion of investigation, he has
submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 448/342/323 IPC r/w section 8
of POCSO Act. Exbt. 6 is the charge sheet. Exbt. 6 (i) is his signature. In his
cross examination PW 6 deposed that he has not seized any bamboo stick.
Witness Amar Keot in his evidence did not state him that “while he was
returning home from work, he saw that his daughter K was about to go to

school by wearing a cloth on her face and on this he has enquired the reason
Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 8 of 13
for putting cloth on her face. She reluctantly told him that yesterday at about 6
PM, while she was returning from field after sowing paddy, that she also told
him that after wrongfully restraining her, accused Riki has thrown a piece of
brick which did not hit her. However this witness has stated that victim told him
that accused Riki Bhumiz has physically assaulted her.” Witness Mamoni Keot in
her statement did not state that after the incident, she came out of the

residence and saw Gurku.

14. Point No. I: So far the charge of house trespass Is concerned,
though the victim (PW-2) and her sister (PW-4) were the alleged eye witnesses
of the occurrence has deposed regarding entry of accused Biki Bhumij through
the window and about forcibly taking away the victim, but in her cross
examination the PW-2 has taken u turn and stated that having love affairs with
Arun Karmakar, on 30.07.2016, on being informed by Biki that Arun came to
meet her, she came out of her house and while she attempted to return back,
her sister has closed the door from inside under some misconception.
Thereafter she went on her own to school field to meet Arun. But suddenly
some other person has flashed torch light on them and on this they concealed.
Thereafter at about 5.00 A.M. the accused persons put her back in her house.
PW-4, sister of the victim however denied the fact of going victim on her own.
From the above evidence it is clear that even victim did not raise any alarm
which also creates suspicion and supports the cross examination part of the
victim. During 313 Cr.P.C. examination it appears that after filing of this case
the victim got married with accused Arun Karmakar and has been living with
him as wife and husband. As such, from the evidence of the victim, particularly
as admitted in cross examination it clearly shows that the allegation of house
trespass by accused Biki Bhumij is totally false and exaggerated and found not

reliable.

15. Point No. II: So far the allegation of wrongful confinement of the
victim is concerned, in her cross the victim (PW-2) has admitted that while she

was about to return, her sister (PW-4) closed the door from inside for which

Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 9 of 13
she had to remain with the accused persons for the night which shows that on
her own she came out of her house and remained there under a peculiar
circumstances. The allegation that accused persons kept her wrongfully
confined from 12 midnight of 30.07.2016 till 5.00 A.M. of the next morning is

found false and not proved.

16. Point No. III: So far the charge of voluntarily causing hurt on the
victim is concerned, from the evidence on record, it appears that the alleged
incident of physical assault took place on 31.07.2016 as mentioned in the FIR
due to assault by accused Riki Bhumij with a bamboo stick. However the
informant was silent on this aspect. PW-2 the victim, in her evidence stated that
while she was returning from field, at about 06.00 P.M. accused Riki Bhumij has
restrained her and rebuked with filthy language and assaulted her with a
bamboo fencing stick on her face. PW-2 denied the defence suggestion that
accused did not assault her and she got the injury by falling. However in her
cross examination in another place she admitted that on knowing her love
affairs with accused Arun, her uncle (elder brother of her father) has physically
assaulted her. From the evidence of PW-3, the M.O. who has examined the
victim on 01.08.2016 deposed that victim came to him with pain and
inflammation at left laterally of upper lip, index finger of left hand, left shoulder
joint and at back. But in his opinion the M.O. has opined that the injuries are
old and simple in nature. No injury was found on the face or on the back of the
chest as alleged by the victim. PW-4, the younger sister of the victim has also
silent on the alleged history of the victim on 31.07.2016. PW-5, mother of the
victim has stated that on the next day, the victim was assaulted by accused
Biki. In her cross examination she admitted that she deposed as above on
being told by victim. Interestingly, the father of the victim has stated that on
finding swelling on the face of his daughter, her daughter i.e. victim 'K' reported
to him that on 31.07.2016, at about 06.00 P.M. while she was returning from
field after sowing paddy, accused Riki Bhumij has physically assaulted her by
throwing a piece of brick and thereafter with a bamboo fencing stick. The victim

is silent regarding throwing of brick piece by the accused Riki. From the above
Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 10 of 13
discussions, it appears that the evidence of the victim so far assault by accused
Biki did not get support either from Medical Officer (PW-3) or from her mother
(PW-5). The evidence of her father (PW-1) was admittedly exaggerated by him
as he did not state the relevant portion of assault by Biki before police. So
under this circumstances, | am of the opinion that evidence of PW-2 the victim
alone cannot be relied upon to hold the accused guilty for the offence U/S 323
IPC. It may be noted here that there was no evidence that in the said assault of
31.07.2016, the other accused persons shared in common intention with

accused Riki Bhumij.

17. Point No. IV: So far the charge U/S 8 of POCSO Act is concerned,
except the victim, all others are hearsay witnesses. The victim in her
examination-in-chief though stated that she was forcibly taken to the football
play ground and while she attempted to flee away, accused persons pulled her
clothes, but in her cross examination as stated earlier, she admitted of having
affairs with the accused Arun Karmakar @ Gurku. She also admitted that she on
her own went to meet Arun and thereafter due to closure of the door by her
sister she could not return back and had to wait till 05.00 A.M. of the next
morning and remained to the school field and in the morning hours accused
Arun and Biki accompanied her to put at her house. She spent the night near
the school building. She also admitted that Exbt. A(i) to Exbt. A(vii) are the
letters written by her to Arun Karmakar. On going through those, it appears
that the scribe is in deep love and affection with Arun Karmakar. From the cross
examination, part of the victim it appears that the allegation of pulling her

cloths and misbehaving is exaggerated and cannot be relied upon.

18. Considering all above, | am of the opinion that prosecution has
failed to prove the ingredients of charges U/S 457/342/323 IPC read with
Section 34 IPC and Section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused Sri Biki
Bhumij, Sri Riki Bhumij and Sri Arun Karmakar @ Gurku. As such, accused Sri

Biki Bhumij, Sri Riki Bhumij and Sri Arun Karmakar @ Gurku are acquitted from

Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 11 of 13
the charges U/S 457/342/323 IPC read with Section 34 IPC and Section 8 of
POCSO Act, 2012 and set at liberty forthwith.

19. Bail bond executed by the accused and theirs surety are extended
for another six months from today U/S 437-A Cr.P.C

20. Considering the nature of the case, | am of the opinion that it is
not a fit case for referring the matter to DLSA for granting compensation U/S
357-A Cr.P.C.

21. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

22 Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on
contest.
23. Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 21% day of

March 2018 Sivasagar.

Special | udge,
Sivasagar:

Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 12 of 13
APPENDIX :

. Prosecution witnesses :

P.W.1 - Sri Amar Keot (Informant)
P.W.2 - Victim

P.W.3 - Dr. Laba Dev Goswami (M.O.)
P.W.4 - Smt. Mamoni Keot

P.W.5 - Smt. Sangita Keot

P.W.6 - SI Nurtaz Ali (1.0.)

. Defence witnesses” - None
. Court witnesses - None
. Exhibits by prosecution -

Exbt.1 - FIR

Exbt.2 - Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Exbt.3 - Medical examination report

Exbt.4 - Seizure list

Exbt.5 - Sketch map

Exbt.6 - Charge-Sheet

Exbt.A (I) to Exbt.A (vii) --- Letters written by victim.

Special J udge,
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2016 Page 13 of 13
