0|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Special Case No. 148 of 2018 corresponding
to Bokajan Police Station Case No. 180 of
2017 Under Section 457 of IPC and 18 of the
POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Krisna Das, Accused

Name of informant/complainant:

Sri parimal Panika

S/o Late Braza Nath Panika

Village: Kawram Bosti

P.S : Bokajan , District: Karbi Anglong.
Name of the accused person facing trial:

Shri Krisna Das

S/O Late Sarubabu Das

Vill-Kawaram Basti

PS : Bokajan

District: Karbi Anglong.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor.

For the defence : Mr Shymal Sheel.(Legal Aid
Counsel)

Argument heard on : 06.9.2018.

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 07.9.2018/10-09-18

NB: The Judgment couldn’t be delivered on the date as | was
remained busy with some other urgent matter.

UDGMENT

aL, It is a case of lurking house trespass by night by
entering into the dwelling house and attempt to commit
1|Page

penetrative sexual assault alleged to have been committed by
the accused person.

Le The prosecution case in brief is that on 13.3.2017
the informant named above lodged an ejahar with Bokajan Police
Station stating inter alia that on 10.3.2017 at about 11-45 PM the
accused committed lurking house trespass in his residence and
tried to commit the offence of sexual abuse upon his daughter,
Smti. Phulmoti Panika aged about 14 years.

Bt On receipt of the ejahar, O/C, Bokajan Police Station
registered a case vide its PS Case No.48/2017 U/S 457/376/511 of
IPC R/W Sec.12 of POCSO Act. On completion of investigation of
the case, the Investigating Police Officer submitted charge-sheet
U/S 457/376/511 of IPC R/W Sec.12 of POCSO Act against the
accused, Shri Krisna Das.

On completion of appearance of the accused person,
copy was furnished to him. Having very carefully gone through
submissions of learned lawyers of both sides as well as case
diary, this Court found sufficient grounds for presuming that the
accused person had committed the offence U/S 457 of IPC and
U/S 18 of the POCSO Act and accordingly, the charges were
framed. The particulars of the charged offences were duly read
over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried.

5. During trial, Prosecution has examined as many as
nine witnesses including complainant and the alleged victim of
this case. Accused person has been examined U/S 313 of Cr.P.C.
Defence examined none. Plea of defence is of total denial.

6. Points for determination are:

(i)Whether the accused on 10.3.2017 at about 11-45
PM at Kawaram Basti under Bokajan Police Station committed
lurking house trespass by night by entering into the dwelling of
the informant, Shri Parimal Panika for the committing any offence
2|Page

and that he thereby committed an offense punishable U/S 457 of
IPC ?

(ii)Whether the accused person on the same date,
time and place attempted to commit penetrative sexual assault
upuon Smti. Phulmati Panika aged 14 years and that he thereby
committed an offense punishable U/S 18 of the POCSO Act ?

Ts Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through the submissions
of learned lawyers of both sides as well as evidence on record. In
the very beginning, learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the
accused has submitted that the prosecution has totally failed to
prove its case beyond all reasonable doubts. On the other hand,
refuting the aforesaid submission, learned Public Prosecutor, Mr
D.K. Deka has submitted that prosecution has duly succeeded in
establishing its case. Prior to forming an opinion on the rival
submissions made by the parties, | would like to give a glance at

evidence on record.

8. PW-1, Shri Parimal Panika is the informant of this
case who deposed that the occurrence took place in the year
2017 and on the day of occurrence, he was not available at his
house. On the next day of his arrival, his wife and son informed
him that at 11/11-30 PM, the accused tried to enter into their
house and seeing the attempt of the accused, the victim girl
made hue and cry and the accused fled away. PW-1 lodged the
ejahar at Bokajan Police Station regarding the occurrence. Police
brought the victim to Diphu Hospital for medical examination.
Statement of the victim was recorded in the Court and the Court
handed over the victim to him.

9. PW-2, Miss Phulmoti Panika is the alleged victim of
the case. The occurrence took place in the previous year. On the
night of occurrence, the accused called her over telephone at
about 11-30 PM telling her to come out of the house. At that time,

she was sleeping in a small room made in their veranda.
3|Page

Although the accused made telephone calls to her, she did not
respond. When she received his call, accused urged her to come
out of the house and she negated his proposal. Then the accused
himself came to their house by climing a tree over the roof of her
room and he tried to enter into her room by breaking the bamboo
wall. On her shouting, her brother came out and the accused fled
away. She informed the matter to her mother and brother. On
that night, her father was not present at their house. In the next
day, her father knowing all happenings lodged dthe case at the
police station. Police got her examined in the hospital and her
statement recorded. Ext.2 is her statement and Ext.2(1) and 2(2)
are her signatures. At the time of occurrence, she was of 14
years old.

10. PW-3,Shri Harsing Enti Taro testified that he knows
the informant, accused and victim girl. The incident took place in
the year 2017. On the night of the occurrence at 9-10 PM, the
informant made telephone call to the VDP President stating that
accused, Krisna Das tried to rape his minor girl by breaking open
the bamboo wall and on her shouting, the accused fled away.
This matter was informed to police by VDP President. Before his
arrival with police at the place of occurrence, villagers caught the
accused and kept him tied in the courtyard. Then police
interrogated the accused and took him to police station. Villagers
reported that the accused entered into the bedroom of the victim
by cutting the upper portion of bamboo wall. As per his
information, the victim was 13/14 years old at the time of

occurrence.

11. PW-4 is Shri Sankar Panika has that he knows the
informant, accused and the victim. The incident occurred one
year ago. On the day of occurrence at about 9 O’ clock, the
complainant over telephone informed him that accused, Krisna
Das entered into the room of the victim by cutting the bamboo
wall. He instantly came to the house of the informant and noticed
a hole (way for entrance) of the wall. He also noticed that a pair
4|Page

of sandal belonging to accused was lying outside the room.
Before his reaching to the place of occurrence, villagers nabbed
the accused and accordingly, he informed police. On arrival of
police, he handed over the accused to the police. Police took his
statement.

12. PW-5 is Shri Raj Kumar Panika testified that he knows the
informant, accused and the victim. The incident occurred in the
year 2017 and on the night of occurrence at 11 O’ Clock, he
heard hue and cry made by Kamal Panika. Kamal is nephew of
the informant who he stays at the house of the informant. Kamal
Panika informed him that although one person entered into the
room of victim, Phulmoti by cutting upper portion of the bamboo
wall, but on her shouting, that person left the place. He found a
pair of sandal near the bamboo wall and thereby he could guess
that the pair of sandal might belong to the accused. Later on, he
and others went to the house of the accused and on being asked,
mother of the accused told that the pair of sandal belonged to
the accused. At that time, accused was not present there.
Subsequently, the accused over telephone intimidated him and
told that he would kill him(PW-5).He informed the matter to the
VDP and after two days, VDP apprehended the accused and
handed him over to police.

13. PW-6 is Shri Kamal Panika who has stated that informant,
accused and victim girl are known to him. The incident occurred
in the year 2015. On the day of
occurrence, he stayed in the house of the victim girl as her father
was not available on that day. While he was sleeping, at about 11
PM, he heard shouting of the victim. Being awakened he came
out and found the victim shouting repeatedly and accused having
fled away. Later, the victim girl informed him that the accused
climbing up the roof tried to enter into the room through the gap
between end of the wall and roof. He noticed the dried clay (Beror
Mati) fallen from the bamboo wall on the ground. He saw the
accused fleeing away by jumping over the bamboo fencing. At
5|Page

that time, PW5 came hearing his shouting. They could see the
Sandal and recognize it to be of accused. Thereafter, they took
the sandal to the house of the accused and the mother of the
accused recognized that it to be of accused. After two days of the
occurrence, villagers could be able to nab the accused and they
handed over the accused to the police. At the time of occurrence,
victim was 14 years old.

14. PW-7 is Dr. Karik Kropi who has deposed in her testimony
that on 02.5.2017 she exmined Smti. Phulmati Panika in
connection with Bokajan PS Case No.48/2017. The victim refused
for physical and genital examination. As per X-ray report, age of
the victim girl was below 18 years(14-15 years). She opined that
alleged history of sexual intercourse was absent. Ext.3 is medical
report and Ext.3(1) and 3(2) are her signatures.

15. PW-8 is Md Rajib Ahmed who is the main investigating
officer. He has stated in his evidence that at the time of
investigation, he was ASI of police at Bokajan Police Station.
During his investigation, he arrested the accused person on being
produced by the villagers. He visited the place of occurrence,
prepared the sketchmap, recorded the statements of the
witnesses and sent the victim to Diphu Hospital for her medical
examination. He produced the victim before the Court for
recording her statement. On 14.3.2017 accused was sent to
judicial custody. He collected the medical report and on
completion of his preliminary investigation, he submitted the
case diary to the OC concerned.

16. PW-9 SI Abdul Hye is another Investigating Police Officer
who completed the subsequent part of investigation and finally
he submitted the charge-sheet U/S 457/376/511 of IPC read with
section 12 of the POCSO Act against the accused person. Ext.5 is
charge-sheet and Ext.5 (1) is his signature.

17. From the cross-examination of the informant marked as PW-
1 that the accused climbed the tree and tried to enter into the
house by breaking its wall. Ext-1 is the Ejahar which shows that
6|Page

the entered into his house in his absence and tried to make
sexual intercourse with his victim daughter. The evidence of
victim girl is most vital and material. Her evidence shows the
accused climbed a tree and tried to enter into the room where
she was sleeping. Her evidence also gives smell that there was
love affairs between the accused and the victim girl. At the time
of occurrence, in the house her mother and brother were sleeping
and she was sleeping in a room constructed in the verandha. Her
evidence shows that while the accused was trying to enter into
the house, she raised shouting. Hearing shouting raised by her,
the accused fled away. There after she told the matter to his
mother and brother. Considering nature of case, non-examination
of the mother and brother of the victim child is fatal to the

prosecution.

18. PW-7 is the medical officer. His evidence shows that the age
of the victim was below 18 years at the time occurrence.
Evidence of PW-4, PW-5 and PW-6 shows that in the PO a pair of
Sandals were found which were identified belonging to the
accused. But evidence of the investigating is totally silent that a
pair of sandal was seized in connection. Hence | find the story of
a pair of sandal to be doubtful. There are also different stories
regarding arrest of the accused. | also find evidence of the victim
child not free from doubt. PW-6 is cousin who was in the house of
the informant on the night of occurrence. His evidence shows
that he saw the accused person fleeing from the house but the
same was stated to the investigating officer. | find major

contradictions on material points.

ORDER

20. In the result | find that the prosecution has failed to
prove Its case beyond all reasonable doubts against the
accused person. Hence on benefit of doubt the accused
person is hereby acquitted from the charges brought
against him and let them set at liberty forthwith. The
7|Page

Superintendent of District Jail is asked to release the
accused person with immediate effect if he is not wanted
in any other case. Inform him accordingly. No order for
recommending for compensation to be paid to the victim
child through her informant father under the scheme of
Victim Compensation as laid down under section 357 A of
the CrPC is passed.

21. Accordingly this case is disposed of.
22. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this 10
September, 2018 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.
Dictated and Corrected by me
(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS )
Special Judge Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi Anglong,
Assam

APPENDIX

Prosecution Examined

PW-1 Shri Parimal Panika
PW-2 Miss Phulmoti Panika
PW-3 Shri Harsing Engti
PW-4 Shri Sankar Panika
PW-5 Shri Raj Kumar Panika
PW-6 Shri Kamal Panika
PW-7 Dr. Karik Kropi

PW-8 Md. Rajib Anmed
PW-9 SI Abdul Ali

Prosecution Exhibited

Ext-1 is the Ejahar

Ext-2 is the victim statement.
Ext-3 is the Medical Report
Ext-4 Sketchmap of the PO.
Ext-5 is the Charge Sheet.

Defence Examined: Nil
Defence Exhibited : Nil

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge
8|Page

Diphu, Karbi Anglong,
Assam
