AA

 

“\

2
yee go"

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE Inn CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.,

Special (P) Case No. 10(S)/2019
U/S 366/376(2)(i) IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Vs.
Md. Dilbar Bhuyan Si. Accused

PRESENT: Sri D.J. Mahanta,

Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.

ADVOCATES APPEARED;

For the State : Sri D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Sti M. Islam, Ld. Advocate

Date of evidence : 10.05.19, 05.07.19

Date of Argument —: 05.07.2019

Date of Judgment _—_: 05.07.2019

JUDGMENT
iL. The prosecution case in brief is that on 05.02.2019, the

informant Paran Ali lodged an FIR before I/C, Garubhasa Out Post alleging
that on 04.02.2019, Monday, at about 8.00 AM, his daughter Miss ‘Xx’ (name is
withheld), went to her school as usual but she did not return back to her
home. Later on, they came to know that accused Dilbar Bhuyan kidnapped his
daughter and at about 4.00 PM, the accused informed the informant through
mobile No. 7002637810 that he kidnapped his daughter.

Bi After receiving the FIR, the I/C, Garubhasa Out Post made
Garubhasa Out Post G.D. Entry No. 99 dtd. 06.02.2019 and forwarded the FIR
to the O/C, Sidli Police Station for registering a case. Accordingly, the O/C of
Sidli P.S. registered a case being numbered as Sidli P.S. Case No. 04/2019 U/S
366 IPC and entrusted A.S.I. Kati Nath Muchahary to take pre-step and S.I. M.
Basumatary to investigate the case. Accordingly, the Investigating Officer
arrested the accused, visited the place of occurrence, drew sketch map of the
P.O., recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical
examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164 CrPC, collected the medical
report and after completion of investigation, submitted charge-sheet against
the accused Dilbar Bhuyan U/S 366/376(2)(i) IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO
Act. After receiving charge sheet, copies of relevant documents were
furnished to the accused person. Accused person was produced from jail. On
perusal of entire materials on record and hearing both sides and after having
found a prima facie case, formal charge U/S 366/376(2)(i) IPC read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused, Charge was read
over and explained to the accused to which he denied to plead guilty. Later
on, accused person was released on bail after recording evidence of victim.

2 In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as 4
(four) witnesses.

Following witnesses are examined:-

(1) Victim Miss ‘xX’ (name is withheld) as PW 1
(2) Informant Md. Paran Ali as PW 2

i a’ (3) Musstt. Nur Bhanu Nesa as PW 3
dy G 08 on (4) Md. Mofidul Hoque as PW 4
so
so Considering the evidence of material witnesses, learned P.P.
G

prayed to close the evidence. I have also found that further evidence would
not establish the case against the present accused for which further evidence
was closed.

4. Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext.1.
FIR was exhibited as Ext. 2. Birth certificate of the victim was exhibited as
Ext.3.

5. Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.

6. Heard argument from both sides.
7. Now points for consideration:-
For the offence U/S 366 of IPC

1. Whether on 04.02.2019, at about 9.00 A.M., at Shyamthaibari
National Highway under Sidli P.S., the accused kidnapped Miss
X’ (name is withheld), minor daughter of the informant with
intent to marry her against her will and with intent to commit
illicit intercourse?

For the offence U/S 376(2)(i) of IPC

2. Whether on the same date, time and place and thereafter, the
accused committed rape upon Miss ‘Xx’ (name is withheld),
minor daughter of the informant aged below 16 years ?

For the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act

3. Whether on the same date, time and place and thereafter in
other place, the accused committed penetrative sexual assault
upon Miss ‘X’ (name is withheld), minor daughter of the
informant ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

8. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record regarding above mentioned all points simultaneously for the sake of

convenience.

9. PW 1 is the victim, who deposed that on the date of
occurrence, she was reading in Class IX at Kashikotra Urabashi Memorial High
School. She further deposed that she failed in Class VI and Class VIII.
According to this witness, she developed love affairs with the accused. On
04.02.2019, she met the accused according to pre-plan at Samthaibari. From
where, both of them fled in a Maruti Car to Dholpur in the district of Darang.
They stayed thereon for four days in the house of the uncle of the accused.
She stayed along with the aunt of the accused. After that, accused informed
. n
gett aio
gyi

the matter to the father of the victim, the informant. Knowing this fact, her
father lodged the present FIR. Her parents came to the house of said uncle of
the accused and took her. It was agreed by the informant, the father of the
victim that she would be married to the accused after two years. She clearly
Stated that accused did nothing. She had stated before the Magistrate as
tutored by police. Said statement recorded U/S 164 CrPC is exhibited as Ext.1.

10. PW 2 is the informant Paran Ali, the father of the victim.
According to him, at the time of occurrence, age of the victim was 15 years.
On the date of occurrence, her daughter, the victim went to her school at
Kashikotra as usual but she did not return for which he searched different
places but did not find her. On next day morning, he was informed over
phone by the victim that she eloped with the accused and both of them fled
away. She also gave the address where they were staying at that time. After
that, he along with his wife went to the place where his daughter was kept by
the accused. After that they made an agreement that victim would be married
to the accused and accordingly he took back his daughter to their home. This
witness further deposed that victim clearly stated that she developed love
affairs with the accused. No any sexual assault was committed by the accused
as stated by the victim to him.

_

i. After going through the evidence of PW 1 and PW 2, it is
revealed that no any sexual act was done by the accused. It is found from
their evidence that victim, according to their pre-plan, went to Dholpur of
district Darang along with the accused. It is also stated by victim that accused
informed her father.

iz. PW 3 is the mother of the victim, who deposed that the age of
her daughter at present is about 18 years. There was love affair between the
victim and accused. On the date of occurrence, victim went to her school from
where, she fled away. She also informed to her that she fled away with the
accused. Then she informed the matter to the informant. After that, accused
contacted her husband over phone. They visited the place where accused and
victim were staying. After that both parties made an agreement that victim
would be married to the accused after attaining the age of majority. On said
cad Or 0
ope yar®

cise

condition, the victim was returned back along with them. This witness also
clearly stated that accused did not commit any bad act or any sexual assault
upon the victim. Due to misunderstanding, her husband lodged the FIR
against the accused. They have already accepted the accused as their son-in-
law. During cross, she deposed that she had no any allegation against the
accused and at the time of occurrence, the age of her daughter was 17 years
and she eloped with the accused according to her own will. She further
deposed that the accused informed them immediately after the elopement of
their daughter with him. It is also revealed from her cross-examination that
she was married to the informant about 20 years ago and victim was born
after two years from their marriage.

13. PW 4 had no any direct knowledge about the incident. He only
heard that there was love affair between the accused and victim and victim
eloped with the accused.

14. After going through the entire evidence on record, it is found
that age of the victim was about 17 years in the border line of age of majority.
She went with the accused according to her own will. She was not forced by
the accused. She made plan with the accused and according to their pre-plan,
both of them met at Samthaibari and went to Dholpur in the district of Darang
in a Maruti vehicle. It is also stated by PW 1 that she failed in two classes. It is
found that accused did not induce the victim and accordingly, he took her to
Dholpur. So, ingredient of kidnapping is missing. It is also found from the
evidence of PW 3, the mother of the victim that immediately after the
elopement, accused informed the father of the victim. As stated by accused,
the informant identified the place. So, intention on the part of the accused is
clear that he did not take the victim. No any sexual act was done by him as
stated by the victim. This fact was also corroborated by her parents. They also
agreed to give marriage of their daughter with the accused. The mother of the
victim clearly stated that due to misunderstanding, informant lodged the FIR
and at present, they accepted the accused as their son-in-law. Considering all
these aspects revealed from the evidence on record, in my view, accused
cannot be booked for any one of the offences mentioned above. As there is no

any whisper for offence regarding sexual act committed by accused, so
offence U/S 376(2)(i) read with Section 4 of POCSO Act is not attracted. On
the other hand, it was not proved from the evidence that accused took the
victim. So, main ingredient of kidnapping is also missing. So, all points
mentioned above are remained as not proved. Accused is no found guilty.

RDE

15. Prosecution miserably failed to prove the case U/S 366/
376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act against accused Dilbar
Bhuyan. Accused is acquitted and set at liberty. His bail bond is cancelled.

16. Seized articles, if any, shall be disposed of according to law.

17. A copy of the Judgment shall be given to the District
Magistrate, Chirang for information.

Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 5™ day

of July, 2019, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

Geb yh Mahan
(D.J. Mahanta) sf y
Special Judge
Sein ge
Dictated and corrected by me, Chirang, Kajaigaon

Aa

(D.J. Mahanta)

g fal, We

   

KKKKK
APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Victim Miss ‘x’ (name is withheld)
PW 2 — Informant Md. Paran Ali

PW 3 — Musstt. Nur Bhanu Nesa

PW 4 — Md. Mofidul Hoque

Exhibit (Prosecution):

Ext-1 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

Ext-2 FIR
Ext-3 Birth certificate of the victim

Material Exhibit (Prosecution):
Nil.

Defence Witness:
Nil.

Nil.

aah

(D.J. Mahanta) ©

Sphecsesd Fei je;
Chir Oirfralhg.2'929))
