Re aren ES 9 IN THE SPECIAL COURT, BAKSA saeeeaeeceesssceaatnascanssenasseaesteesseeseeesgeeess AT MUSHAPUR

Present : Shri C. Das
Judge, Special Court
Baksa, Mushalpur

EMENT IN SP AL P ASE NO.104 18
u/s 8 of POCSO Act
State
-versus-

Sri Ravi Ram @ Rabia

.... Accused

Appearance :

For the State: Mr. R. Chetry, Public Prosecutor, Baksa

For the accused : Mr. M. Mazumdar, Advocate

Date of evidence recorded: 11.3.19, 28.5.19, 23.10.19

Date of argument : 21.11.19

Date of judgment : 5.12.19

UDEMENT
1. The case of the prosecution briefly, is that on 29.8.18, the
complainant/ victim girl(name is withheld) lodged a FIR before the In-charge of
—> Darranga Mela police out post, alleging inter-alias that the accused who is her

vudage S ‘cur brother, under influence of ganja, used to touch her in inappropriate manner and
saksa { \e/9Ur when she opposed to it, the accused assaulted her physically. Even on same day,

the accused at around 2 am, the accused did the same thing.

2. The police accordingly, registered the Darranag Mela police out-post
GD Entry No.404 dated 29.8.19 and Forwarded the said FIR to the Officer-in-charge

of Tamulpur police station for registering a formal case. Hence, the Officer-in-
_ :
ny

charge of Tamulpur Police station registered the PS Case No.321/18 and started
the investigation, During the investigation, 1/O visited the place of occurrence,
examined the witnesses and drew up its sketch map. I/O collected the school
certificate of the victim girl to confirm her age. The accused was arrested in the
case. At the end of investigation, 1/O submitted the charge-sheet against the
accused to face trial in the court.

3, The accused when appeared in the court, he was Furnished with the
copy of the case. After hearing the parties and on perusal of the material on record,
the charge u/s 8 of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (in short :
POCSO Act) was framed against the accused. The charge so Framed, was read over

and explained to the accused who pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution during the trial, examined as many as, (six) 6
witnesses including 1/O to support its case. After that, the statement of the
accused was recorded u/s 313 of CrPC where the accused denied all incriminating
circumstances appeared against him in the evidence with the plea that he was
falsely implicated in the case since, he objected to the relationship of the victim girl
with a boy. The accused however, declined to adduce any defence evidence. The

argument of the parties was heard at length and the evidence was perused

carefully.
POINT FOR DET ERMINATION:
5. Whether on 29.8.18 at about 2 am at Darranga under Tamulpur

police station, the accused committed sexual assault to the victim girl/ complainant

by touching her and beating her with sexual intent ;

DECISION AND REASON THEREFORE :

6. It appears From the record, there is no dispute that complainant/
victim girl is the sister of the accused. The occurrence took place at night in the
house of the complainant. It is admitted fact that both the accused and the victim

resided in the same house due to relationship.

7. Learned Public Prosecutor submitted in the argument that it is an

unique case where the sister brought the allegation of sexual intent of the brother
2” — accused. He submitted that the evidence of the prosecution disclosed that the

accused was a habitual consumer of ganja and hence, under influence of the
contraband substance, it is possible that the accused might have committed such
offence against his own sister. The magnitude of such crime is so high and
recurrence that the sister of the accused, was compelled to file case against her
own brother/accused, Further, he submitted that in the Indian social context, the
relationship between the sister and brother is holy in nature but the accused
committed such heinous crime against his sister. He asserted that the evidence of
the prosecution witnesses have able to bring home the charge against the accused
and as such, the accused ought to be punished as per law.

8. Per contra, learned counsel for the accused submitted that it is true
that the sister brought such sexual intent allegation against the accused but the
actual fact is that the allegation is totally False and Fabricated to frame the accused
since he objected to the relationship of the victim with a boy who is not suitable for
her. Even then, the victim continued to maintain such relationship with the local boy
and had planed to flee away with the boy. He submitted further that if the evidence
of the prosecution witnesses is carefully perused particularly, the evidence of the
victim girl itself, it would disclose no sexual intent appeared from the side of the
accused. It is natural that as brother and the resident of same house, the accused
entered into the room of the victim at night which usually used to do so but there is
no evidence that the accused had any intention to cause sexual harassment to his
sister. It cannot be imagined out of total stretch of mind that the accused could go
to such extent to touch the body of his sister with sexual intent. Hence, the
allegation is totally False and the accused is not involved in the crime as alleged. He
continued to submit that the evidence of the prosecution Failed to bring home the
charge against the accused and as such, the accused may be acquitted.

9. After hearing submissions and counter submissions, it is now proper
to go into the evidence of the prosecution on record. The accused is implicated in
the offence under POCSO Act. In case of POCSO Act, the victim must be a child

> within the meaning of Section 2(d) of POCSO Act. Hence, at the First, the age of the

ine eal ets
ve IsMNainur

victim need to be determined.

10. It is admitted Fact that the Parents of the victim and the accused did
not come forward to Participate in the trial of the case. There is no medical
evidence tendered by the prosecution to know the age of the victim girl. Thus, if

the evidence of PW1 who is the victim/ complainant of the Case, is perused, it
’ ie
Meee

vudge Sp: Court
Baksa Mushalour

appears that she stated that she was 15 years old at the time of occurrence. She
submitted that school certificate to support her age proof which is exhibited as
MRExt.1. But the MRExt.1 was proved according to the law. In the cross-
examination, PW1 stated that she Was a student of Class-Vill. Hence, the MRExt.1
cannot be accepted as valid document to ascertain the correct age of the victim.
Further, in the cross-examination of PW1, she disclosed that she was in Class-Vill at
the relevant time of the occurrence. On the other hand, the accused as brother of
PW1, did not dispute over the claim of PW1 that she was 15 years old at the time of
incident. She is Found to be a student of Class-Vill and as such, she is under the age
of 16 years. Hence, there is no other different material Found against the age of
PW1 as per her claim. Accordingly, it is proper and safe to accept that the victim
girl(PW1) was below 18 years of age at the time of occurrence. Therefore, she was
a child within the meaning of Section 2(d) of POCSO Act.

11. After determining the age of the victim girl, now, the duty is cast
upon to go into the main allegation of the victim against the accused. PW1 stated
inter-alias that on the fateful day at about 2 pm., when she returned to home From
school, the accused came and started to beat her by a belt of rice-cooker. Hence,
she made an inquiry for such beating by the accused. Local persons came to inquire
over the matter, But the accused replied that she is his sister and it is his will to
beat his sister. Further she stated that she used to sleep with her mother ina room.
The accused prior to the incident, used to come to her room at night when she
went sleeping and started to touch her body parts. On her protest, the accused
replied that he came to check her. He mother suffered from mental illness. She
reported the incident to her mother who asked the accused to sleep properly. In
the mean time, local public gathered at the spot. She started to weep at her
courtyard. In the mean time, two friends of the accused came to the spot to
accompanying him. Thereafter, she informed the police and filed the ejahar vide
Ext.1 with her signature. The police sent her to record statement vide Ext.2 with

her signatures.

12. In the cross-examination, PW1 stated inter-alias that she did not
state in Ext.1 and Ext.2 that she was physically assaulted by the accused by means
of a belt of rice-cooker and her mother was unsound mind. The accused used to
caution her to continue her study properly. Smti. Durga Khandar who is her
landlady, came to rescue her From the accused. She had love affairs with a boy
namely; Ganesh and the accused pacified her to leave Ganesh. Accordingly, she left

the company of Ganesh.
Tee

13. PW2 Gopinath Khandal deposed inter-alias that Pw1 is his tenant.
According to him, he had no knowledge about any tussle going between the
accused and PW1. He was reported by PW1 about the incident of touching her
body by the accused. On his inquiry, PW1 reported him that the accused used to
touch her body. Hence, he referred the matter to local bichar. Later on, the FIR filed
the ejahar.

14. In the cross-examination, PW2 denied that he did not state before
the police that the victim reported the incident of touching her body by the
accused,

15. PW3 Smti. Chandrakala Brahma deposed inter-alias that on the
fateful day, at about 8 pm., a quarrel took place between the accused and Pw.
Accordingly, on hearing hue and cry, she went to the place of occurrence and saw
PW1 was weeping. PW1 informed her that the accused used to consume drugs and
came home at night and created noise under influence of intoxication and that as
such, PW1 could not sleep at night Properly and that the accused disturbed her by
removing cloths while she was sleeping on the bed.

16. In the cross-examination, Pw3 denied that she did not state before
the police that a quarrel took place between the accused and PW1 and the accused
also, disturbed PW1 by removing cloths while sleeping on the bed. She stated that
there was huge gathering of public at the place of occurrence. PW1 had love affairs
with a boy.

17. PW4 Sushil Kr. Jha deposed inter-alias that on the fateful day at
about 7 pm., he heard that a boy attempted to rape a girl of the village and as such,
there was hue and cry. Accordingly, he went to the house of the accused and saw
huge gathering of public. He saw the accused was sitting on a bench and the
accused denied any attempt to commit rape on PW1. The accused told that he tried
to beat PW1 since PW1 did not come to home. Even then, local public pacified the

yaccused.

aiDuUT

18. In the cross-examination, PW4 denied that on the fateful day at
about 7 pm., he heard that a boy attempted to rape a girl of the village and as such,
there was hue and cry and he saw the accused was sitting on a bench and denied
the allegation of rape. He came to know that PW1 already Fled with a boy with
whom she had love affairs.
wf e% he UT

Saksa Niushalour

 

19. PWS Tarabir Tamang deposed inter-alias that on the fateful day, at
about 7 pm., he came to know that the accused under influence of liquor,

misbehaved with PW1. Hence, he came to the spot and saw huge gathering of
public.

20. In the cross-examination, PWS stated that at present, PW1 fled away
with a boy with whom she had love affairs.

21. The evidence of 1/O Nayanmoni Das as PW6 is that on 29.8.18, at
Darrangamela OP, he received the FIR from PW1 and he registered GDE No.404
dated 29.8.18. He was endorsed to investigate the case. During the investigation,
he visited the place of occurrence and examined the victim with other witnesses.
He sent the victim to record her statement u/s 164 CrPC. There was no allegation
of physical or sexual assault made by the victim for which no medical examination
was conducted. He drew up the sketch map of the place of occurrence vide Ext.3.
He arrested the accused and after completing the investigation, he filed charge-
sheet against the accused vide Ext.4 with his signature.

22. After going through the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, it
appears that the occurrence took place at the rented house of PW1 and the
accused. PW1 alleged in her evidence, stated that the accused assaulted her
physically by means of belt of rice-cooker and the accused used to touch her body
at night while sleeping. But From the cross-examination of I/O, it comes to notice
that PW1 omitted to say that the accused caused physical assault to her by rice-
cooker. Hence, I/O did not refer PW1 for medical examination. Since the above
version is omitted by PW1 in her statement u/s 161 CrPC., it amounts to
contradiction of her version. Hence, such evidence of PW1 is not reliable to believe
on this point. Further, PW1 claims that the accused touched her body while
sleeping at night at her home. Pw2 corroborated the said version of PW1 but he
was not eye-witness of occurrence. Moreover, PW2 omitted to say above version of
PW1 to I/O in his previous statement u/s 161 CrPC. Therefore, it cannot be held
that PW2 gave a true version in respect of claim of PW1.

23. PW3 contradicted such version of PW1. It appears that PW3
disclosed that PW1 told that the accused disturbed her by removing the cloths
while sleeping on the bed. PW3 did not state that PW1 disclosed that the accused
touched her body but disclosed removing the cloths while sleeping. PW4 gave
another discrepant version that he heard that the accused attempted to rape PW1
¥
ov

ej which PW1 did not disclose the same at all. PWS never state that the accused
attempted to rape PW1 but stated that the accused misbehaved PW1 which is not

 

consistent with the version of PW1. Thus, the evidence of PW2, 3, 4 and S are not
direct. They came to spot after hearing the hue and cry. On perusal of their
evidence, it appears also that their versions are contradictory to each other. It Fails
to corroborate the version of PW1 consistently and cogently to place confidence on
the version of PW1.

24. Apart from above, it appears that PW1 omitted to disclose any
sexual assault upon her by the accused in her statement u/s 161 CrPC. But her
evidence that the accused touched her body at night while she was sleeping in her
room, or removing the cloths while she was sleeping on the bed, amounts to
indicate that the accused had sexual intent to do the same. Hence, the version of
PW1 on the above points is found contradictory to her own versions. No material of
sexual intent of the accused can be presumed from the evidence of PW1. Moreover,
the evidence of PW3 shows that PW1 had love affairs with a boy which was
objected by the accused. The evidence of PW4 and 5 shows that PW1 already fled
away with the boy. All these evidence discloses that relationship between the
accused and PW1 was stained due to love affairs of PW1. Hence, itis highly possible
that due to such stained relationship, PW1 lodged aggravated allegation against
the accused who is her brother to harass him. In view above, there is doubt if PW1
gave a true and reliable version against the accused. Accordingly, the accused is
given the benefit of doubt.

25. Under the above facts and circumstances of the case, the
Prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt. Accordingly, the accused is held not guilty u/s 8 of POCSO Act and the
accused is acquitted and set at liberty. His bail bond is however, remained in force

for another 6 months u/s 437-A CrPC. Forward a copy of judgment to the District
i, Magistrate, Baksa at Mushalpur u/s 365 CrPC. The court recommends for payment

, OF adequate compensation to the victim of the occurrence by DLSA, Baksa. Inform

ad |
Baksa ViUSRa@lourccordingly.

26. Given under the hand and seal of this court on this 5 day of
December 2019,

Dictated and corrected by:
 

Judge,.Special Court
SBaksa, Mushalpury

Transcribed by :
B. Brahma, Steno

Tate Srec?l Court

Bake, Mushalpur,
ANNEXURE :

List of prosecution witness:

PW1...
PW...
PW3...
PW4...

PWS5

the victim girl (name withheld)
Gopinath Khandal

Smti. Chandrakala Brahma
Sushil Kr. Jha

... Tarabir Tamang
PW6 ...

Nayanmoni Das ... I/o

List of defence witness:

Nil

ist of ments exhibited :

Ext.4 ...
Ext.2..
Ext.3...
Ext.4...

FIR

. Statement of victim u/s 164 CrPC

sketch map
charge-sheet

———
Judge, Special Coures APA 4
MUENYGS OOH Ou 1
