IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS,
AT MORIGAON

S.C.R.No. —475/ 2015
U/S 25 of Legal Metrology Act,2009

State
-Versus-
Sri Babul Bania.,.......cccsseseseseesees accused
person
Present : Smt. Pooja Sinha, AJS,
Judicial Magistrate First Class
Morigaon
Advocate appearing
for the Prosecution : Smt. Banti Devi
Advocate appearing for
the Accused persons ; Sri M.C. Sarkar
Dates of recording Evidence : 03.05.2016& 01.06.2016
Date of hearing Argument : 28.09.2016
Date of delivering Judgment i 06.10.2016
JUDGMENT

1. Brief fact of the case as led by the Prosecution:- On 22/10/2014,

during the course of inspection Sri Senaram Saikia, Inspector , Legal
Metrology Department at Gohaigaon, Morigaon in the premises of BABUL
BANIA,s/o- Sri Moheswar Bania, c/o- M/S Barnali Jewellers (Morigaon),
Vill- Udari, P.O- Udari & P.S- Morigaon, Dist-Morigaon, Assam found that
One 5 tola, 3 tola, 2 tola, 1 tola, 2 tola, % tola, 1/16 tola, 1 silver coin, 1
paisa one, parts of paisa 2 pc have been used by the above mentioned
accused person in his commercial transaction.
2. Thus, the above mentioned non standard weights, were seized under

the possession of the above mentioned accused person for violation of
Section-8 of the Legal Metrology Act 2009 and a prosecution case against

him in the Court of Law for trial.
. On receipt of the Complaint , criminal case was registered and
transferred the same to this court for disposal. Hence, the Prosecution
case has come out.

. On completion of the appearance of the accused person, the particulars
of the offences U/S 25 of Legal Metrology Act, 2009 was read over and
duly explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.

. During trial, the prosecution has examined 2 (two) witnesses. The
accused person was examined U/S.313 Cr.P.C. Defence plea was he did
not use the seized items in commercial transaction. Defence opted not to
adduce evidence.

. Points for Determination:

(1) Whether the accused person on 22/10/2014 at Barnali
Jewellery shop kept weight /measuring tool which is
not in accordance of standard measure and thereby
committed an offence U/S 25 of Legal Metrology Act?

. Discussion, Dedsion and Reasons thereof :- I have heard the

 

learned Counsel appearing for the State. Also heard the learned Counsel
appearing for the accused persons . Upon hearing the learned Counsel for
the parties and on perusal of the records, I am of the considered opinion
to hold the following :

. P.W. 1 Sri Kameswar Bordoloi,he in his evidence stated that he knows

the accused person. On the day of incident he went to the shop of the
accused situated at Gohaigaon. The name of the shop is Barnali
Jewellery. He went to the shop with Senaram Saikia who is the Inspector,
Legal Metrology Department for inspection. Along with them the person
named Idrish Ali was present. In the instant shop they inspected the
measuring machine and the weighing tools. There they found total 5
tola, 3 tola, 2 tola, 1 tola, Y2 tola, % tola, 1/16 tola, 1 siver coin, 1 paisa
one, parts of paisa 2 piece were used by the accused for commercial
transaction. The above tool are not standard weights and hence they
were seized by Senaram Saikia in my presence.

Exhibit-1. He exhibited the seizure list of Exhibit-1 and he identified his
Signature there on.
9.

10.

11.

P.W.2 Senaram Saikia is the Inspector, he deposed at on
22/10/2014 at about 12.20 PM he went for inspection in the shop of the
accused Babul Bania situated at Morigaon town. During inspection, he
found weighing tools which are non standardized. They are 5 tola, 3 tola,
2 tola, 1 tola, %2 tola, % tola, 1/16 tola, 1 siver coin, 1 paisa one, parts
of paisa 2 piece.
Therefore, as the tools were non standardized, the same was seized and
brought to the office after making seizure list at the spot of inspection.
The signature of the accused along with the witnesses were taken at the
seizure list. The copy of the seizure list is sent to the Controller, Legal
Metrology Assam. Thereafter, a complain is forwarded tot he Court and
its Exhibit as Exhibit-2. He identified his signature as Exhibit-1.
During cross-examination, he submitted that he was assisted by
Kameswer Bordoloi and Idrish Ali on the day of inspection. The measuring
instrument are to be renewed after every two years and they are verified
and duly stamped.

On perusal of the materials and testimonies on
record, the following facts are observed:
Firstly, that PW-1 has corroborated the evidence put forwarded by PW-2,
who was the Inspector, Legal Metrology Department. The accused has
used non standardized measuring took.
Secondly, accused during his 313 statement has stated that he kept the
seized items in the shop but did not use them .
Thirdly, the points requiring proof to prove an offence U/S 25 of Legal
Metrology Act is that mere keeping of non-standard items is sufficient to
prove the offence. The accused need not be caught red handed using the
non standard tools while inspection. The discovery of non-standard tools
in his shop is sufficient to prove the offence.

12.Considering the above, the accused is found guilty of the

13.

offence alleged with use of non standardized measurement tools
while carrying on his business at “Barnali Jewellery” and thereby
committed an offence under section 25 of Legal Metrology Act,
2009.

In the result, the accused Sri Babul Bania is found guilty and thereby
convicted U/S 25 of Legal Metrology Act, 2009.
14. Convict is sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.5000/- U/S 25 of Legal Metrology
Act, 2009 i.d. to S.I. for 30 days.

15. Fine amount so collected will be deposited at the Treasury.

16. The bail bonds furnished by the sureties are extended for a period of six
months.

17. Seized articles are to be disposed of as per due procedure of law.

18. Furnish copy of the judgment to the convicted person.

19. The case is disposed of on contest.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 6" day of
October, 2016 at Morigaon.

( Pooja Sinha )
Judicial Magistrate First Class
Morigaon
Typed and corrected by me

( Pooja Sinha )
Judicial Magistrate First Class,Morigaon
APPENDIX
Prosecution Witness-
1. P.W.1- Sri Kameshwar Bordoloi
2. P.W.2- Sri Senaram Saikia
Defence Witness-
Nil
Prosecution Side Exhibits-

Ext.1 - Seizure list
Ext.2- Complaint petition

Defence Side Exhibits-

( Pooja Sinha )
Judicial Magistrate First Class
Morigaon
