 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 60 (T) of 2017
U/s 8 of POCSO Act

The State Of ASSAM —__haacacececseeeeeeeeeeenees Complainant.
-Versus -

Sri Sumon Chakraborty

S/o- Lt. Gupi Chakraborty

R/o- Nalani Hulla Gaon

P.S- Tinsukia

District- Tinsukia, ASSAM nae eeececeeeeaeeeeeeeeees Accused.

Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,
Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the State
Sumon Sharma,
POVOGRISG == sanaeax sana xs sam For the accused.
Date of Argument: 04/02/2019
Date of Judgment: 08/02/2019
J} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

Li On the day of occurrence, at about 4.30 pm, the 7
years old girl was taken into the house of the accused and
thereafter the accused had attempted to commit rape upon
her. But, before the accused could commit the act, the grand
mother of the victim girl arrived there and she saved the
victim girl. Smti Koushalya Bhumiz, the grand mother of the
victim girl had lodged an ejahar before police, alleging the
aforesaid fact.

2. During the period of investigation, the victim girl was
subjected to medical examination. The Doctor found the

injuries upon the victim girl.

"The victim gave history of sexual assault on the last
Thursday, i.e 07/09/2017 by two people, who are their
neighbours.

On examination, | found the following:

Menstrual history - Menarche not yet attained. General
and physical examination - The victim was oriented in space
and time. Dentition- 23. Injuries absent. Examination of genital
parts- congested of labia majora present. No other injuries
found.

Vaginal smear was taken and as per report, no
spermatozoa was detected.

Radiological examination was done. Writs joint- fusion
not seen. Elbow- fusion not seen. Iliac crest- fusion not seen.

As per radiological opinion, her age is between 8 to 11 years."
3. The victim girl also gave a statement u/s 164 Cr.PC,
wherein she has stated before the Magistrate that at the
relevant time of occurrence, the accused had removed her
pants and rode over her and committed bad act. The Ld.
Magistrate, who had recorded the statement of the victim girl
u/s 164 Cr.PC, has noted the manner of the victim girl by
stating that the victim girl did not say anything more than
that.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

4. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed sexual assault upon the

victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as seven
witnesses, including the Police Investigating Officer and the
Doctor, who had examined the victim girl during the period of
investigation. The defence plea is total denial. | have carefully
gone through the prosecution evidences.

6. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up
the evidence of the victim girl. She has stated in her evidence
that at the time of occurrence, the accused had inserted his
penis into her vagina.

7. During cross examination, the victim girl denied that
she never stated before the police that the accused had
inserted his penis into her vagina.

8. The victim girl also did not state before the Magistrate
that the accused had inserted his penis into her vagina; rather
she stated before the Magistrate that the accused had done
bad act upon her. By no means the words “bad act” cannot be
construed to mean sexual intercourse. | find that the evidence
of the victim girl failed to inspire confidence, because there

are serious contradictions in her evidence.

9. In the instant case, the victim girl is the only eye
wetness to the occurrence, and her evidence is infested with
serious contradictions. Therefore, the evidence of the
remaining witnesses have lost their relevance. Under the
aforesaid premised reasons, | hereby hold that the offence of
sexual assault, committed upon the victim girl has not been
proved beyond all reasonable doubts against the accused
Sumon Chakraborty.

ORDER

10. That being the position, the accused Sumon
Chakraborty is found not guilty and accordingly the accused
is acquitted from this case. Presently, the accused is in judicial
custody, so he be set at liberty forthwith.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
8th day of February, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_E N DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 -

2. PW2

3. PW3 -

4. PW4 -

5. PW5 -

6. PW6o -

7. PW7 -

Dr. Nicky Shah

Smti Koushalaya Bhumij
Smti Anila Mura

Sri Bijoy Munda

Smti Bharoti Bhumij
Smti Soniya Mura

Sri Pradip Baruah

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1-

2. Ext. 2-
3. Ext. 3-
4. Ext. 4 -
5 Ext. 5 -
6. Ext. 6 -

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Medical report

Laboratory report

Radiological report with X-ray plates
Ejahar

Sketch map

Charge sheet

Special Judge

Tinsukia
