1

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 03 OF 2018

Under Section 8/12 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012

Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-versus-
Mrinal Kanti Ojah ...... Accused.
APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Mr. Lalit Nath, learned PP.
For the accused : Mr. R.N. Das, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 19.06.2018,
Argument heard on : 19.06.2018,
Judgment delivered on : 19.06.2018.

} U D G M E N T

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 09.11.2017 one
Manoj Boro lodged an FIR alleging that his daughter Dipashree Boro aged
13 years was a student of Kasturva Gandhi Balika Vidalaya, Pakabetbari
by staying in the hostel of the school. On that day at about 01:30 noon
the victim over phone informed him that for last one week accused Mrinal
Kanti Ojah, Chowkidar of the hostel had been giving some illicit signal to
2

her and on 05.11.2017 at about 8:30 PM he touched her chest.

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against accused Mrinal Kanti Ojah under section 8/12 of POCSO Act.
3. The accused person appeared before this court, copies were
furnished to him and after hearing both the parties charges were framed
against accused Mrinal Kanti Ojah under section 8/12 of POCSO Act.
Charges were read over and clearly explained to the accused person to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.

4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined as many
as 4(four) witnesses. Examination of the accused person under section
313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.

5. Points for determination:-

Whether on 05.11.2017 at about 8.30 PM. at Paka Betbari,
within the jurisdiction of Barpeta PS.,District Barpeta, the accused
person---

i) committed sexual assault on Dipashree Boro, aged about 13
years, who is daughter of the informant Manoj Boro ?

ii) had been committed sexual harassment upon Dipashree
Boro, aged about 13 years, who is daughter of the informant Manoj Boro ?

Discussion, decision and reasons thereof

 

6. According to the FIR, the accused person touched the chest
of the victim on 05.11.2017 and prior to that for about one week he was
giving some illicit signals to her. The informant came to know about the
occurrence while the victim informed him on 09.11.2017 over phone. At
the time of occurrence, the victim was a student of Class VIIl and she was
aged about 13 years. The said informant i.e the father of the victim Manoj
Boro as PW1 has deposed that he was informed over phone by a teacher
3

of the school wherein the victim was reading that while the victim
alongwith other students were playing, the accused persons prevented
them. Then suddenly, the hand of the accused touched the victim. The
accused was the cook of that school. The teacher further told him that he
was called by the police. So he had gone to the police station. In the
police station, police took his signature in blank paper. Later he came to
know that by that paper a case was registered against the accused
person. Police seized the birth certificate of the victim.

In cross examination, he has stated that Ext.1- the FIR was

not written by him. He does not know who wrote the said FIR. He put his
signature in the FIR as per direction of the police and the teacher. As the
case was filed due to some misunderstanding, the village people and the
school authority settled the matter. No such occurrence took place as
narrated in the FIR. So, he is not willing to proceed with the case.
7. The mother of the victim Smti Rina Nath Boro as PW2 has
deposed that the victim was studying at Kasturva Gandhi Balika Vidalaya,
Pakabetbari by staying in the hostel of the school. The accused person is
the Chowkidar of the hostel. About 8 months ago, her husband informed
her that while the victim was playing in the hostel, body of the victim was
touched by the accused accidently. Then her husband was called by the
school authority. Police took the signature of her husband. Thereafter the
school authority and villagers settled the matter.

In cross examination, she has stated that she did not see
anything. She heard from her husband. No such occurrence took place as
narrated in the FIR.

8. The victim Dipashree Boro as PW3 has deposed that about 8
months ago at night while she had gone for dinner, the accused was
providing dinner. In the meantime, the electric lights were off. Then
suddenly she dashed with the accused. She informed the matter to her
friends and her friends informed the same to the hostel warden. Warden
called her father and while her father came, the warden lodged the FIR
4

through her father. Police produced her before the Magistrate and she
made the statement.

In cross examination, she has stated that the whole
occurrence took place due to misunderstanding. The accused did not do
any illicit act with her. Her father, by mistake, lodged the FIR. She made
the statement before the Magistrate as tutored by the police. Prior to that
she never visited the court. As her father lodged the FIR due to
misunderstanding, the villagers settled the matter. The accused is not
guilty.

9. On Dinesh Nath as PW4 has deposed that one day the
informant called him to the police station. Police seized the birth
certificate of the victim and he put his signature in the seizure list. Except
this, he does not know anything.

10. From the above discussions of the evidences of the
prosecution witnesses, it is found that the victim is the vital witness in this
case. Except her no other witness saw the occurrence. But the victim
herself has not supported the case of the FIR. Rather, she has stated that
her father lodged the FIR due to misunderstanding. The accused person
did not do any illicit act with her. He is innocent. She made the statement
before the Magistrate as tutored by the police. On the night of occurrence
as the electric lights were off, due to darkness she was dashed against the
accused who was the cook of her hostel and he was providing dinner to
them. PW1 and PW2 i.e. the father and mother of the victim respectively,
have also supported the version of PW3 by saying that no such occurrence
took place as narrated in the FIR. On the night of occurrence, while the
victim along with her inmates were playing, the accused person prevented
them and then suddenly the body of the victim was touched by the
accused. The informant does not know what is written in the FIR. It was
written by somebody else and he had only put his signature. Contradicting
own statement of the FIR, informant in his examination-in-chief has stated
that police took his signature in a blank paper and the same was
5

converted to an FIR. Under such circumstances, it is revealed that neither
informant nor the victim are at all reliable witnesses. They have
contradicted their own version. On the basis of such contradictory
evidences no one can be held guilty for any offence. In this present case, |
find that the prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of the accused
person.

11. Under the above facts and circumstances, it is clear that the
accused person cannot be held guilty for any offence either under section
8 or under section 12 of POCSO Act, 2012. Therefore, the accused person
is acquitted and set at liberty.

12. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
extended for another period of six months from the date of this judgment
under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

13. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365
Cr.P.C.

14. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 19th day
of June, 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta.
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Manoj Boro, the informant,
P.W.2 = Rina Nath Boro,

P.W.3 = Dipashree Boro, the victim,
P.W.4 = Dinesh Nath.

(B) Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1 = FIR,

Ext.1(1) = Signature of Manoj Boro,

Ext.2 = Seizure list,

Ext.2(1) = Signature of Manoj Boro,

Ext.2(2) = Signature of Dinesh Nath,

Ext.3 = Statement of victim u/s 164 CrPC.
Ext.3(1) & 3(2) = Signatures of the victim.

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.

Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
