HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SESSIONS CASE

District :- Goalpara.

 

Present:- Sri S. Hazarika, A.J.S.
Special Judge,
Goalpara.

Spl. Case No.16/18
U/s.448 of IPC read with Section 8 of POCSO Act.

In connection with GR Case No.972/16.

State -vs-

Abdul Kader Mondal

weeeeeees Accused.
Ld. Advocates appeared:-
For the State :-Sri S. Sarma, Special Public prosecutor.
For the accused - :-Mr.Giyas Uddin Ahmed, Advocate.
Date of evidence :-20.01,.2020.
Date of argument. :- 20/01/2020
Date of judgment :- 30/01/2020
UDGMENT
1. The informant(prosecutrix) lodged an F.I.R. alleging

that on 20.04.2016 at around 4:00 P.M. in the evening, the accused
entered into her house taking advantage of absence of anybody in
her house and paid Rs.30/- to her and he also paid Rs.10/- to her

1
brothers to purchase some things from the market and sent them to
the market. Thereafter, the accused suddenly grabbed her chest and
tried to commit rape upon her. The informant cried for help in order
to save herself and her sister and others along with neighbours
came and saved her. At this stage, the accused left her house. The
F.1.R. was lodged before the O/C of Chunari PS. and accordingly
Chunari PS. Case No.06/2016 was registered. Later on, G.R. Case
No.972/16 was registered.

2. The Investigating Officer conducted investigation of the
case and after completion of investigation submitted Charge Sheet
against the accused who is facing trial and and this Spl. Case was
accordingly, registered. The present case was thereafter, transferred
to this Court to hold the trial.

3. This Court furnished the relevant copies of the
documents to the accused. Upon hearing both parties, this Court
framed charges U/S.448 of IPC read with Section 8 of the POCSO Act
against the accused. The contents of the charges read over and
explained, to which, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to
be tried.

4. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE :-

i) Whether the accused on 20.04.2016 at about 4:00
P.M. illegally trespassed into the house of the informant ?

(ii) Whether the accused committed sexual assault on
the victim who was a minor girl aged about 14 years.

5. | have heard arguments advanced by learned counsel
for both parties and also gone through the evidence on record. After
the evidence of the prosecution side, the statement of the accused
is recorded U/S.313 Cr.P.C., wherein he denied the allegations
against him and claimed to be innocent.

 

6. DISCUSSIONS DECISIONS AND REASONS
THEREFORE :-
7. In this case, the prosecution side examined two(2)

witnesses. Among the witnesses PW1 is the informant and PW2 is
the father of the victim.

Accused is facing charges for committing house
trespass and also for committing criminal assault upon the victim

who was aminor girl aged about 14 years.

8. PW1 is the victim as well as the complainant of the
instant case. In her evidence she stated that she is the informant
and she knows the accused. Due to household matters there was an
altercation between them and for which she lodged the F.I.R. out of
anger. Nothing was done with her. She lodged the F.I.R. as dictated
by other. She put her thumb impression in the F.I.R.

PW1 is the informant as well as victim of the alleged
incident. She is the star witness of the case and in her evidence she
remained silent that the accused had committed house trespass and
also had done bad things with her. She remained silent that the
accused had touched her private parts or did anything with ill
motive. Thus, this witness did not support the prosecution case.
Further, she stated that she lodged the F.I.R. out of anger. She
lodged the F.I.R. as dictated by others. Thus, the prosecutrix did not
support the prosecution case.

9. PW2 Nur Md. Ali stated that his daughter had lodged
the FI.R. and at the time of the incident his daughter was 17/18
years. After 2/3 days of the incident he returned home and came to
know that her daughter had an altercation with the accused. Her
daughter was weeping but he does not know why her daughter was
weeping.

10. The evidence of PW2_ clearly did not support the
prosecution case as he admitted that he came to know about the
incident after 2/3 days of the alleged incident. He remained silent
that the accused had committed sexual assault upon his daughter
or that the accused had trespassed into his house. Thus, PW2 also
did not support the prosecution case.
11. The prime witness of the case did not support the case.
Without the evidence of the victim the prosecution case cannot
stand. There is nothing to hold that the accused had done any bad
things with the victim for which he is facing trial.

12. In view of the above, | am of the view that’ the
accused deserves to be acquitted and and accordingly, he is

acquitted.

13. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 30%
day of January, 2020.

Dictated and corrected by:-

( Sri S. Hazarika, AJS,)
(Sanjay Hazarika, AJS) Special Judge, Goalpara.

Special Judge, Goalpara.

Typed by: Jajneswar Nr. Deb, Stenographer, Goalpara.
APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

PW1-Informant(victim).
PW2 -Nur Md. Ali

DEFENCE WITNESS :-

NIL

COURT WITNESS :-
NIL.

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :-
NIL

DEFENCE EXHIBITS :-
NIL

COURT EXHIBITS :-
NIL

Spl. Case No.16/18

( S. Hazarika, AJS)
Special Judge,Goalpara.
