 

us

special Judge,
Chirang. Kajsigaon

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE irs CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

ial (POCS eN RKT)/201
U/S 328/372 IPC R/W 2(1)(a)(d) Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act R/W Section
11 of POCSO Act.
State of Assam
Vs.
Smt. Premji Narzary

Smt. Helima Narzary
Sti ecny egy Accused

PRESENT : Sri D.J. Mahanta,

Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.
ADVOCATES APPEARED:
For the State ‘ Sti D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor
For the accused / Smt. S.M. Basumatary,

Sri M. Islam, La. Advocates

Date of evidence : 18.09.17, 21.02.18,
20.04.18, 25.05.18

Date of Argument : 02.06.2018
Date of Judgment : 02.06.2018

UDGMENT AND ORDE

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 18.07.2015, at about 8
a.m., victim ‘xX’ (name is withheld), the daughter of the informant went on
missing and in spite of searching at different houses of the relatives, she was
not found and her mobile phone was found switched off. Finally, on 20.07.15
in the morning hours, the informant came to know from the victim through
as
y

Special Judges,
Chirang. Kaislaaon

mobile conversation that the accused persons, on the pretext of visiting
Guwahati, took her to the rented house of accused Premji Narzary at
Bongaigaon and they administered some intoxicant substance mixing in cold
drinks to her. Thereafter, they took her to Guwahati and forcefully engaged
her in prostitution in a hotel at Guwahati, Hence, the FIR.

23 The matter was informed to the O/C, Runikhata Police Station
who accordingly registered a case being Runikhata P.S. Case No. 36/2015 U/S
120(B)/372/328/34 IPC R/W Section 5(1)(a)(ii) of Immoral Traffic Act R/W
Section 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted S.I. Nobin Boro, I/C, Bengtol O.P. to
investigate the case. Accordingly, the Investigating Officer arrested the
accused, visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the
witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got recorded her
statement U/S 164 CrPC and after completion of investigation, submitted
charge-sheet against the accused persons, namely, Premji Narzary and Helima
Narzary U/S 120(B)/372/328/34 IPC R/W Section 5(1)(a)(ii) of Immoral Traffic
Act R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act. Later on, accused persons were released on
bail. After receiving charge sheet, copies of relevant documents were
furnished to the accused persons. On perusal of police papers and hearing
both sides, having found a prima facie case, my learned predecessor framed
charge U/S 372 IPC read with Section 5(1)(a)(d) of Immoral Traffic Act R/W
Section 12 (11) of POCSO Act against accused Premji Narzary and U/S
328/372 IPC read with Section 5(1)(a)(d) of Immoral Traffic Act R/W Section
12 (11) of POCSO Act against accused Helima Narzary.

3. In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as 7

(seven) witnesses.

4. Following witnesses are examined:-
(1) Sri Acharu Narzary as PW 1
(2) Victim as PW 2

(3) Sri Sanswrang Muchahary as PW 3
“
he
o

Special Judge,
Chirang. Kajaigaon

3

(4) Sri Upendra Brahma as PW 4

(5) Sri Ishikiash Muchahary as PW 5
(6) Sri Biliphang Muchahary as PW 6
(7) S.I. Nobin Boro as PW 7 (1.0.)

Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext.

1. Seizure list was exhibited as Ext.2, charge-sheet was exhibited as Ext.3 and
sketch map was exhibited as Ext.4.

6.

Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.
Heard argument from both sides.

ints for ideration:-
For the offence U/S 372 of IPC

Whether on 19.07.2015, accused Premji Narzary let the minor
victin to hire by one youth at Guwahati for the purpose of
prostitution and prior to 1% month from 13.07 15 and on
13.07.16, accused Helima Narzary let the minor victim to hire
by two youths for the purpose of Prostitution?

For the offence U/S 328 of IPC

Whether prior to 1%2 month from 13.07, 15, accused Helima
Narzary caused the victim, a minor git! to take beer, which is an

intoxicated drink with intent to carry out prostitution?

For the offence U/S 5(1)(a)(d) of Immoral Traffic (Prevention)
Act

Whether on 19.07.2015, accused Premji Narzary procured and
induced the victim, a minor girl under the age of 18 years to

carry on prostitution and prior to 1% month from 13.07.15 and
ye
Vv

Special Judge
Chirang. Kaisigaon

on 13.07.16, accused Helima Narzary procured and induced the
victim, @ minor girl under the age of 18 years to Catry on
Prostitution ?

For the offence U/S 12 (11) of POCSO Act

4, Whether on 19.07, 2015, accused Premji Narzary, with sexual
intent, made the victim, a child to exhibit her body before one
youth at a hotel at Guwahati and Prior to 1% month from
13.07.15 and on 13.07.1 6, accused Helima Narzary, with sexual
intent. made the victim, a child to exhibit her body before two
youths?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-
Ee REMOVING TAEREFOR

9, Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record which were adduced by prosecution in support of their case.

10. In present case at hand, victim is the main witness. Other
witnesses heard the entire incident from her. PW 1 is the informant and father
of the victim. According to PW 1, victim reported him that on the date of
occurrence, victim went outside along with the accused Premji Narzary and
after returning, members of ABSU caught them and produced before the
Bengtol P.S. He deposed that according to his daughter, no any evil act was
committed by accused during her stay in different places. The villagers and
members of ABSU caught them because she was going with the present

accused persons.

11. Victim was examined as PW 2. She deposed that occurrence
took place before two years ago. At that time, she was reading in Class-X at
Bengtol Higher Secondary School. On the date of occurrence, school was
closed. She went outside and stayed in the house of accused Premji Narzary.
She along with accused Premji and her brother went to Guwahati. They
stayed the night in a hotel. They booked two rooms. In one room, she along
with Premji was sleeping. In other room, brother of Premji was sleeping. After
that they returned. When they were returning, on the way, some villagers
We
AG

Ssecial Judge
Chirang. Kaisigaor

obstructed them and asked them from where they were coming. Some of the
members of ABSU beat her and asked different questions. They also rebuked
her for which she had given false statement before the police as well as
Magistrate. The statement of the victim recorded U/S 164 CrPC was exhibited
as Ext.1. In the said statement, victim narrated a separate story. According to
Said statement, accused Helima Narzary took her to different places,
Particularly Kokrajhar, Bongaigaon and Guwahati. Some persons were also
involved with her for sexual relationship. She could not identify the persons
who committed illicit sexual intercourse with her. These facts were totally
denied by the victim during her later deposition, She deposed that according
to advice of the members of ABSU, she had deposed such false story before
the Magistrate. Victim was minor at the time of occurrence because she was
reading in Class-X. During evidence victim stated nothing which is criminal
against the accused.

12. PW 3, PW 4 and PW 5 heard about the incident. They had no
any specific knowledge about the incident. They heard the incident when
victim along with the accused persons were caught by the members of ABSU
and villagers. They only heard that present accused persons took the victim
for illicit trade for which they were travelling different places.

13. PW 6 is the brother-in-law of the victim. He deposed that in the
year 2015, father of the victim informed him that later was missing since
morning and her mobile phone was in switch off mode. After knowing that
fact, he also rang the victim but found her mobile phone in switch off mode.
On next day, he contacted the victim from whom he knew that she was in
Rolling Mill, Bongaigaon. Accordingly, PW 6 went to Bongaigaon and brought
the victim. He found the victim in the house of the accused Premji Narzary.
The local people caught Premji Narzary and handed over to the villagers.
Nothing was reported to him by the victim.

14. PW 7 is the Investigating Officer. He deposed that after getting
information on 21.07.15 that accused persons were caught by villagers at the
house of one Acharu Narzary, he proceeded to the place of occurrence. He

found both the accused persons, namely, Premji Narzary and Helima Narzary
4
. hs
he

Seecial Judge,
Chirang. Kaialaaor

on the spot who were caught by villagers. It was alleged that accused persons
took the victim girl for some illicit purposes. He also found the victim at the
place of occurrence. Then he recorded the statement of the victim, sent her
for medical examination and for recording her statement U/S 164 CrPC.
According to I.0., victim was taken to Bongaigaon, Guwahati and Kokrajhar.
I.0. visited Kokrajhar and examined witnesses thereof but he did not visit
Bongaigaon and Guwahati. He collected medical report of the victim and on
the basis of said medical examination report, age of the victim was
ascertained. He did not collect school certificate and birth certificate of the
victim. During the time of investigation, he handed over the case diary to one
Inspector Gauri Kalita. The PW 7 Clearly stated that he did not trace out the
places where alleged immoral acts were committed. He did not get any
evidence except the statement made by victim. The I.0. admitted that he did
the investigation wrongly without following proper procedure. Though case
was filed under provision of POCSO Act, but who committed the offence was
not revealed during the time of investigation.

15. After going through the entire evidence on record, it is found
that the villagers found the victim along with the present accused persons. It
was alleged that she was taken by them for illicit purpose. This is nothing but
doubt in the minds of the people. Except this, no any evidence was collected
by the Investigating Officer during entire investigation. The victim though
stated some facts against the accused persons alleging that they took her to
different places for illicit purposes, but no any evidence was collected from
said places by the I.0. after visiting the same. No any person was arrested
regarding any offence related to Section 12 of POCSO Act. So, regarding
Section 12, accused was not asserted. Regarding IPC offence, though two
persons were named as accused, but investigating agency failed to establish
any material or act against them. The ingredients of these sections are not
proved at all. The statement of the victim is the basis to file charge-sheet as
stated by PW 7. The victim stated that she had given such type of statements
as she was threatened by the members of ABSU and villagers. PW 1 also
stated that the victim did not state to him any story as narrated by her before
the Magistrate or police U/S 164 and 161 CrPC. The prosecution failed to
establish any one of the offences mentioned above against the present
accused persons. All points remained as not proved. Accused persons are not
found guilty.

RDE

16. Prosecution failed to Prove the case U/S 372 IPC R/W Section
9(1)(a)(d) of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act R/W Section 12 (11) of POCSO
Act against accused Premji Narzary and U/S 328/372 IPC R/W Section
5(1)(a)(d) of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act R/W Section 12 (11) of POCSO
Act against accused Helima Narzary. Accused persons are acquitted and set at
liberty. They are directed to furnish bail bond of Rs. 10,000/- each with one
suitable surety of the like amount for a period of six months as required U/S

437(A) Cr.P.C. Till then, they are allowed to remain in previous bail.
Lf. Seized articles shall be disposed of according to law.

18. A copy of this judgment shall be given to the District
Magistrate, Chirang for information.

19. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 2” day
of June, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

Bed a yeh Mxbot

(D.J. Mahanta) 2.

SOESS IUGE,
hirang. Kaeigaon
Dictated and corrected by me, Chiang,

pa

(D.J. Mahanta)
Special Judge,
SpOAkadgdas
Chirang. Kaislqaor
2K KK KKK

\o)%
APPENDIX

 

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Sri Acharu Narzary

PW 2 - Victim

PW 3 - Sri Sanswrang Muchahary
PW 4 - Sri Upendra Brahma

PW 5 - Sri Ishikiash Muchahary
PW 6 ~ Sri Biliphang Muchahary
PW 7 —S.I. Nobin Boro (I.0.)

Exhibit (Prosecution y

Ext-1 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext-2 Seizure list

Ext-3 Charge-sheet

Ext-4 Sketch map

Material Exhibit (Prosecution ):

Nil.

 

Defence Witness:
Nil.

 

Defence Exhibit:
Nil.

 

bs Ae

(D.J. Mahanta)

Special Judge
“eat 06.
Chirang aigaon
