Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s :

313 of CrPC.
Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel of the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

43 OF 2016

(Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of GR Case No 5042 of 2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

State of Assam

-Vs-

1.Sri Konlora @.Nandeswar Nath

S/o Lt Chenai Nath,

Vill- Panchnoi Nepali,
P.S. — Dhekiajuli,

Dist- Sonitpur.
24-08-2017

20-01-2018, 03-02-2018.

03-02-2018.

03-02-2018.

03-02-2018.

Mr Munindra Ch Baruah,
Special Public Proecutor,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Smti D Singha, Advocate.
Page |2

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Konlora @ Nandeswar Nath is put for trial for
the allegation of charge under Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that on or about
5.00 PM on 10-12-2016 while my minor daughter aged about 12 years, was going to
bring kerosene oil from Panchnoi Centre, then after returning to home, on the way,
accused took her by caught hold her hand to his house and attempt to-commit
misdeed with her. Then she ran out from the house of accused and told about the

whole incident to her mother(complainant). Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the complainant Smti Niroma Devi before the
I/C, Rakhyasmari Out Post on 11-12-2016.

4. On receipt of the ejahar, I/C-Rakhyasmari Out Post made GD Entry No
168 dated 11-12-2016 and forwarded the same to OC, Dhekiajuli PS for registering
the case. Accordingly, on receipt ofthe ejahar, O/C, Dhekiajuli Police Station
registered the case vide Dhekiajuli Police Station Case No 922/16 under Section 342
of the IPC, r/w Section 8 of.POCSO Act. After completion of investigation, O/C,
Dhekiajuli Police Stationssent.up the case against the accused person under Section
342 of the IPC, r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act.

5. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
the parties, charge framed under Section 8 of POCSO Act. Particulars of the charge
was-read_ over, explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed
to be-tried.

6. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined three PWs including
the informant and victim. After examination of the witnesses, learned Counsel for the
accused submitted to close the prosecution evidence on the ground that neither the
complainant nor the victim reveals any materials as to the alleged offence against
the accused. Therefore, it would be futile to examine the other witnesses. Learned

Special PP also conceded.
Page |3

7. A close scrutiny of the statement of the statement of witnesses
including the complainant and victim, I think that prosecution case would not
develop, even if examine the other prosecution witnesses, as they were no way
supported the prosecution case. Speedy trial is the right of the accused person.

Considering this all, prosecution evidence is closed.

8. Accused is examined under Section 313 CrPC and the evidence
appears against the accused persons and the allegations made against the accused
person are put before me for his explanation where they denied the allegations and

declined to give defence evidence.

9. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned Counsel for
both the sides.
10. The point for decision in this case-is that —

(1) "Whether the accused, on or about 5.00 PM of
10-12-2016 have committed sexual assault to Smti
"X” aged about 12 years minor girl and thereby
committed \an_offence punishable under Section 8
of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

 

11. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidences on
record.
12. PW1 — Sri Nirmal Nath deposed that victim Borosha Devi is her niece.

The incident took place about one year and eleven months ago. At the evening time,
his niece Miss “X” went to bring kerosene oil at about 5 PM. When his niece
returned, accused handed over her ten rupee note and called his niece into his
home. Thereafter, accused forcefully touched her breast and back. Then the victim
came out from the house of accused in panic and reported the matter to her mother.
When he asked the matter to his niece, she told him about the incident. Then, the

complainant Niroma Devi filed this case.
Page |4

In cross-examination he stated that he has not seen the incident
personally. His niece reported the matter initially to her mother then, her mother
reported him, but, the victim did not state him about the incident.

13. PW2- Smti Niroma Devi who is the mother as well as the complainant
of this case stated that the victim is her daughter and at the time of incident her age
is 12 years old. The incident took place one year and two months ago at about 4 PM.
At the relevant time, she sent her daughter Miss “X” to bring kerosene oil from the
Centre. While her daughter went to centre to bring Kerosene, the accused called, her,
but, she did not enter his house. After return from the centre, her daughterinformed
her that accused has called her(victim) to his house, but, she did not go there. But,
local public instigate her stating that accused is a man of bad_nature, so, asked her
to file a case. Accordingly, she lodged the ejahar. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is
my signature. The ejahar was written by one of our villagers. After instituting the
case, her daughter was medically examined and also recorded her statement under
Section 164 CrPC.

In her cross-examination, she stated that accused is a person who is
doing day labour. As such some people like him and some people do not like him. He
is an old man lives in the joint family. The ejahar was written by one villager and
asked her to put her signature. Accused called her daughter, but, she did not go to
his house. She also stated.that she has filed the ejahar as per instigation of village

people.

14. PW3- Miss “X” deposed that she called accused as ‘Bordeuta’. The
incident.took place on 10-12-2016 at about 5 PM. At that time she went to Centre to
bring kerosene oil. On the way to Centre, accused called her, but, she did not go
there. When she returned home, she told her mother that accused called her to his
house, but, she did not go to his house. Thereafter, her mother filed this case. She
also stated that she never made statement before the police that accused called her
to her house and give her Rs.10/- and the accused touched her body including her
breast and then she ran away from his house with the said ten rupee note. Police
came to investigate the case and sent her for medical examination and thereafter,
forwarded her to Court for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. Ext. 2 is
her statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC and ext. 2(1) and 2(2) are her
Page |5

signatures.

In her cross-examination, that she did not go to the house of accused
neither he touch her body. Accused resides at his house along with his family. She
also admitted in her cross-examination that her mother filed this case at the
instigation of villagers and she made statement before the Court under Section 164
CrPC as tutored by villagers and also the police personnel, in fact no such incident

took place as alleged in the case.

16. These much is the prosecution evidence.

17. The accused is charged under Section 8 of POCSO Act. To prove the

charge under Section 8 of POCSO Act, prosecution must prove that —

"Whoever, with sexual intent touches the
vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child and
makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or
breast of such person or.any other person, or
does any other Act with sexual intent which
involves physical contact without penetration Is
said to commit sexual assault”.

18. In such type of cases,.statement of victim is so important. Here in this
case, according to victim, she.stated that at that time she went to Centre to bring
kerosene oil. On the way to Centre, accused called her, but, she did not go there.
When she returned home, she told her mother that accused called her to his house,
but, she did not go.to his house. In fact she stated that she never made statement
before the<police that accused called her to his house and give her Rs.10/- and the
accused. touched her body including her breast and then she ran away from his
house.with the said ten rupee note. In her cross-examination also she stated that
she did not go to the house of accused neither he touch her body. She also admitted
in her cross-examination that her mother filed this case at the instigation of villagers
and she made statement before the Court under Section 164 CrPC as tutored by
villagers and also the police personnel, in fact no such incident took place as alleged
in the case. Though PW1 Nirmal Nath stated in his evidence that he was reported by
the complainant that accused called his niece into his home and thereafter, accused
forcefully touched her breast and back. But, this part of evidence no way supported

by victim as well as the complainant in their evidence. As such no ingredient of
Page |6

sexual assault is proved. Hence, charge under Section 8 of POCSO Act is failed.

19. On careful perusal of the whole case record, it appears that
prosecution has categorically failed to prove any of the alleged charge against the
accused. Hence, I do not have any hesitation to acquit the accused. Accordingly,

accused Konlora @ Nandeswar Nath is acquitted and set them at liberty forthwith.

20. The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

21. Send back the LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this) the 3 day of
February, 2018.

(A. K. Borah)

Special Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Dictated and corrected by me.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Pezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |7

APPENDIX
Witnesses examined by the prosecution:
1.PW1 — Sri Nirmal Nath,

2.PW2 — Smti Niroma Devi, Complainant &
2.PW2 — Miss “X” (victim).

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

1. Ext. 1: The ejahar.
2. Ext. 2 : Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
