IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE cum SPECIAL JUDGE ::
SIVASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar,

Sessions Judge cum Special Judge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 U/S 6 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Sonari P.S. Case No. 281/14)

State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Baisaku Goala..........ceeeeeee Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution ; Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
For the accused Sri D.K. Gohain, Advocate
(State defence counsel)
Date of framing charge ; 26.06.15
Dates of evidence 07.08.15, 28.09.15, 04.02.16,
30.03.16, 15.06.16, 03.08.16,
01.06.16, 29.09.16, 03.12.16,
24.01.17, 07.02.17, 01.04.17,
31.08.17, 21.02.18, 20.06.18
Date of S/D 31.10.17, 07.03.18, 29.06.18
Date of argument ; 13.07.18, 24.07.18 & 07.08.18
Date of Judgment ; 16.08.2018
JUDGMENT
1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 21.12.2014, one Sri D.

Bhumij lodged an FIR with O/C, Sonari P. S. alleging, inter alia, that
on that day, at about 1 p.m. while his minor daughter victim 'D'
(name withheld) was playing in her court-yard, suddenly she went
missing. During search, at about 3 p.m. she could be traced out in the
Jungle of Sonari Tea Estate and apparently she was raped.

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 1 of 29
Immediately she was taken to Naphuk Tea Estate Hospital and there
from she was referred to AMCH, Dibrugarh.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Sonari P.S. Case No. 281/2014, U/S 3 of
POCSO Act was registered and investigated into the case. During
investigation, victim was medically examined and her statement was
recorded in the court U/S 164 Cr.P.C. Several articles were seized and
sent to FSL, Assam for DNA fingerprinting and also for serological
examination. Accused Baisaku Goala was produced before this court
for trial as the case is exclusively triable by the court of Special Judge.
On completion of investigation, I/O submitted Charge-Sheet against
the above named accused U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.

3. On receipt of charge sheet, copy of relevant documents
were furnished to the accused. Services of state defence Counsel was
provided to the accused. After hearing both the sides, vide order
dated 26.06.2015, the then learned presiding officer has framed
charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused and on read
over and explaining them to him, the accused pleaded not guilty and
claimed to stand trial. During trial, prosecution side has examined
twenty-two witnesses including three Medical Officers, 2 officers form
FSL Kahilipara Assam, and I.O. Dr. Kripanath Morang was examined as
C.W.1. Defence cross-examined the said PWs but adduced no

evidence.

4. Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused
was examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case was of total denial and
false implication. Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was
called upon to enter into defence.

5. | have heard argument of learned Spl. PP. Mr. Srimanta
Gogoi and Mr. D. K. Gohain, learned State defence counsel and gone
through the evidence on record. | have considered the submission of
both the sides.

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 2 of 29
6. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE~ -

(I) What was the age of the victim on 21.12.2014?

(Il) Whether on 21.12.2014 the victim 'D' was subjected to
penetrative sexual assault?

(Il) lf so, whether accused has committed offence of
penetrative sexual assault?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. Before going further, let me discuss the evidence
available on record for better understanding of fact in issue.

8. PW. 1 Dr. Pranjal Kr. Chutia in his evidence deposed that
on 24.12.2014 while he was on emergency duty at Sonari Hospital,
victim 'D' was brought for medical examination and at that time the
victim was aged about 4 (four) years. Upon examination of the said
victim, on ascertaining sexual harassment or biting by some
infectious insects in Jungle, he informed the matter to police. He
collected vaginal smear and crust of semen from the thigh area of the
victim and handed over these articles to police. Police seized the
same vide Exbt. 1, the seizure list. He saw injury mark near her
vagina. In his cross examination, P.W. 1 submitted that on the next
day he handed over those articles to police. He gave preliminary
treatment to the victim. He did not give any written document to
police regarding collection of the seized articles from him. He denied
the defence suggestion that he has not taken any samples.

9. PW. 2 victim 'D' in her evidence deposed that she is
studying in Anganwadi School. Accused Baisaku kicked on her
abdomen and she suffered pain. He did nothing with her. In her cross,
she stated that accused Baisaku is her maternal uncle.

10. PW. 3 Mrs. Jyoti Gogoi, Staff Nurse of Rajapukhuri SDCH at
Sonari in her evidence deposed that on duty Doctor collected vaginal
Smear and crust of semen from thigh area of victim. Police seized
those articles vide Exbt. 1. Exbt. 1(1) is her signature. In her cross she

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 3 of 29
admitted that on the date of seizure she was on duty. She did not
have personal knowledge of the incident.

11. PW. 4 (wrongly marked as P.W.3) Sri Dipak Bhumij in his
evidence deposed that victim 'D' is his niece and she is aged about 6
to 7 years. About 8/9 months back (deposing on 28.09.2015), victim
told him that accused had committed rape on her. He saw the family
members of victim were searching her and he also joined them.
Subsequently Subash Bhumij found the victim in the nearby Jungle in
unconscious condition and informed them. She was brought to her
home. Her pant was removed and blood oozing out from her urinary
tract. She was taken to Bagan Hospital where from she was taken to
Rajapukhuri Hospital at Sonari. Police seized one blood stain frock and
one panty of the victim vide Exbt. 2, seizure list. He identified the
seized frock as M. Exbt.1 and the panty as M. Exbt. 2. Police also
seized one light blue colour undergarment used by man with marks of
blood and semen vide Exbt. 3. He also recognized the said
undergarment as M. Exbt. 3. In his cross examination, he deposed
that he cannot say where from these articles were seized. He denied
the defence suggestion that while giving statement to police, he did
state that victim has informed him of committing rape by accused.

12. PW. 5 Sri D. Bhumij, the informant of this case in his
evidence deposed that on knowing that his five years old daughter
victim 'D' was missing from the house, he and others searched for her
and could locate her in the jungle in senseless condition. Therefrom
she was brought to the residence of Kartik Bhumij and at that time,
she was completely naked. Victim was taken to Hospital wherefrom
she was referred to AMCH, Dibrugarh where she stayed for 26 days.
On asking the victim, she told that accused after taking her physically
assaulted her. Victim got injury on her neck and bleeding injury per
vagina. Police seized the blood stain cloths of the victim. Thereafter
he lodged the FIR. In his cross examination, he stated that he cannot

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 4 of 29
say as to what was written in the FIR. FIR was written by police. After
10-15 days of the incident, police recorded his statement. He was
informed by police that after two days of the incident, accused was
arrested. Victim was initially taken to Naphuk Hospital and therefrom
she was taken to AMCH, Dibrugarh and in between, she was not taken
to any other place. At the time of incident while searching the victim,
the accused was at Forest Gate Tini-Ali and on asking he stated his

ignorance about the victim.

15. PW. 6 Dr. Nibedita Shyam in her evidence deposed that
on 22.12.2014 she was on duty as Medical Officer at AMCH,
Dibrugarh, on that day, she examined victim 'D' on being referred by
Surgical Unit-ll, Hospital No. ML-15038, AMCH, Dibrugarh dated
22.12.2014. The victim was accompanied by her mother. There was
no police escort and consent was taken from the mother of the victim

girl and on examination she found as follows:

1. Date & time of examination - 22.12.2014, at about 9.15
a.m. at Department of Casualty, AMCH, Dibrugarh as referred
by SU-II, AMCH, Dibrugarh.

2. Re-examined on 27.12.2014, at about 12.30 PM at
Department of Paediatric Surgery, AMCH, Dibrugarh.

Brief history of the case - As per the mother of the victim
girl, on 21.12.2014, at around 2 p.m. the girl went missing from
the house and at around 4.30 p.m. some people went to the
nearby jungle and found the girl lying on the ground. On being
asked, the victim informed her mother that a man named
Baisaku Gowalla of same village took her to the jungle side,
gave her money and allegedly had sexual intercourse with her.
After the act, the man left the girl and went away. Thereafter the
parents took the girl to nearby hospital, but she was referred to
AMCH Dibrugarh.

Mental condition - No abnormality detected at the time of
examination.

Injuries over the body (examined on 22.12.2014) - are as
follows 1. Linear abrasion of size 7 cm X 0.5 cm present
over front of neck, 4 cm

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 5 of 29
below the chin, reddish in colour.

2. Linear abrasion of size 4 cm X 0.5 cm present over front of
neck, 5 cm below the body of mandible on left side, reddish in
colour.

Genital injuries (examined on 22.12.2014) - Injuries found
over the

genital organs are as follows -
1. Multiple abrasion over vulva, reddish in colour. Vulva swollen.

2. Hymenateac seen at 5, 6 and 9 O'clock position with swollen
margins, tender, reddish in colour and bleeds on touch.

3. Vagina - tear present in posterior for-nix and forchette,
tender, reddish in colour and bleeds on touch.

The victim girl was re-examined as per requisition from department of
Pediatric Surgery on 27.12.2014.
Injuries over her body (examined on 27.12.2014) -

Injuries No.l & 2 found over the body of the victim on
22.12.2014 were partially healed abrasions covered by black
scald.

Genital injuries are same as found on 22.12.2014 except vulva
oedema diminished and the said injuries did not bleed on touching.

Laboratory investigation:

Vaginal smear examination - report did not reveal any
spermatozoa.

Opinion: On the basis of physical examination and laboratory
investigation done on victim 'D' PW 6 has opined that evidence of
recent sexual intercourse not detected on her person. However
findings are suggestive of forceful vaginal penetration. Age of the
injuries aS on 22.12.2014 were approximately 12 hours to 24 hours
and injury nos. 1 & 2 were caused by blunt force impact. Her age was
5 to 6 years. Ext. 4 is medical examination report. In her cross
examination, PW 6 stated that at the time of examination victim, was
in conscious state of mind and found no abnormality. During

interrogation to Phuleswari Bhumij, the mother of the victim did not

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 6 of 29
state before her the victim becoming unconscious.

14. PW. 7 Sri Kartik Bhumij, uncle of the victim in his evidence
deposed that on the date of incident, after returning from work he
Saw that mother of the victim came to his house in search of his
daughter and on this, he also joined them. By this time, his brother
Subhash could trace out victim in the Jungle and brought her to his
residence. At that time victim was in unconscious state. Therefrom
she was taken to Naphuk Hospital. He saw bleeding injury per vagina.
Thereafter victim was taken to Rajapukhuri Hospital at Sonari and
then to AMCH, Dibrugarh. After about two months, victim returned
home. On asking her, victim told that accused took her to nearby
Jungle and committed rape with her. Police also seized one blood stain
Jungia in his presence vide Exbt. 3, seizure list. He recognized the said
seized Jungia as M.Exbt. 3. In his cross examination, he admitted that
while giving statement to police, he did not state that Subhash could
trace out the victim and that victim was taken to Naphuk Hospital and
thereafter AMCH, Dibrugarh. He could not say where he had put his
signature on Exbt. 3. He could not say the contents of the seizure list.
He also admitted that before police, he did not state that after
returning from Hospital victim had informed him about commission of
rape by the accused.

15. PW. 8 Sri Tankeswar Dutta in his evidence deposed that
after returning from market, from his wife he heard that somebody
had taken away the victim and subsequently the victim was
recovered and taken to Hospital. From public he came to know that
accused committed misdeed with the victim.

16. PW. 9 Mrs. Jharna Saikia, JMFC, Sivasagar in her evidence
deposed that on 26.02.2015, while she was working as Judicial
Magistrate, First Class at Sivasagar, on that day, victim 'D' was
produced before her in connection with Sonari P.S. Case No. 281/2014
U/S 6 of POCSO Act, and accordingly, she recorded her statement U/S

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 7 of 29
164 Cr.P.C. Exbt. 5 is the statement.

17. PW. 10 Sri Dasarath Pandav in his evidence deposed that
being VDP Secretary and on being asked by I/C of the Out Post, he
came to the residence of the accused and one underwear of the
accused was seized vide Exbt. 3. He put his signature as Exbt. 3(1).
He recognized the said seized underwear as M.Exbt. 3 and knew that
it was seized in connection with a rape case. In his cross examination,

he admitted that he had no personal knowledge of any incident.

18. PW. 11 Smt. Hiramoni Bhumij in her evidence deposed
that victim is her grand-daughter and she went missing while playing.
At about 4.00 PM Subash could trace her out in the Jungle in senseless
condition and brought her to his residence. There from victim 'D' was
taken to Naphuk Hospital and then to Rajapukhuri Hospital at Sonari
and therefrom she was taken to AMCH, Dibrugarh where she stayed
for about a months. On asking the victim, she told her that accused
had called her. At that time, victim was aged about 6(six) years. In her
cross, she deposed that she had not seen the victim lying in Jungle.
While giving statement to police she stated that some unknown
person had committed rape on the victim and that she did not see
any person coming to her house on the date of incident.

19. PW. 12 Smt. Protima Bhumij in her evidence deposed that
at the time of incident victim was aged about 4% years. On knowing
that victim was missing, she also searched her and at about 4 PM,
Subhash could trace her out in the Jungle in senseless condition and
brought her to his house. She also saw that pant of victim was
removed and blood was oozing out from her vagina. After three days,
victim regained her sense and on asking, the victim told her that
accused took her towards Tea Garden area for keeping her to the
residence of her grand-mother. In her cross examination, she stated
that she did not see the incident on her own. She denied the defence
suggestion that while giving statement to police she did not state

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 8 of 29
regarding regaining sense after three days and that victim told her
that accused has taken her towards garden. She also denied that
before police she stated that she did not suspect anybody.

20. PW. 13 Sri Montu Bhumij in his evidence deposed that on
hearing hue and cry near the residence of victim, he came there and
learnt that victim 'D' went missing from her house. Subsequently,
victim was recovered from Jungle of Sonari Tea Estate and brought
back to her house. He saw bleeding injury on her vagina and
thereafter she was taken to hospital. On asking, the victim told him
that accused Baisaku took her with him. Police seized the blood stain
frock and panty of the victim vide Exbt. 2. He also recognized the said
seized articles as M.Exbt. 2. In his cross examination, he admitted
that before police, he did not state regarding finding of the victim in
Jungle by Dipak and that he saw bleeding injury on the vagina of
victim. Victim 'D' is his niece. He denied defence suggestion that
while giving statement to police, he did not state that on asking the
victim she told him that accused Baisaku took her. He admitted that
while giving statement to police he stated that some unknown person
had committed rape on her. The seized frock and panty were handed
over to police by Dipak Bhumij.

21. PW. 14 Smt. Phuleswari Bhumij, mother of the victim, in
her evidence deposed that on the day of incident, at about 10.30 AM
she left the house for collecting fire wood and at about 1.30 PM, on
return, her in-laws informed her that victim 'D' was missing from her
house. By that time her husband also arrived there and made search
of the victim. Subsequently her brother-in-law Subhash Bhumij could
trace out the victim in Jungle. She went there and saw her daughter
lying in senseless condition. Blood was oozing out from the vagina of
the victim. Therefrom the victim was brought and taken to hospital. At
AMCH, Dibrugarh some operation was also performed. From
Dibrugarh, victim was taken to Guwahati for further treatment. The

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 9 of 29
victim regained her sense at AMCH, Dibrugarh. On asking by her
uncle, the victim told him that accused Baisaku took her to the jungle
and after assaulting her committed misdeed with her. Victim was
treated at Guwahati for about forty days. In her cross examination,
she denied the defence suggestion that she did not see her daughter
in the jungle with bleeding injuries on her vagina. She also denied
defence suggestion that no treatment was provided at Guwahati and
no such medical document was given to police regarding taking
treatment at Guwahati.

22. PW. 15 Smt. Rajashree Dutta, the Staff Nurse of AMCH,
Dibrugarh simply stated that on 05.01.2015 while she was on duty,
police recorded the statement of victim 'D' in her presence.

23. PW. 16 Smt. Seema Das Rajbanshi, P.W. 17 Smt. Dimpal
Kour, RW. 18 Smt. Kamala Newar and P.W. 19 Smt. Sangita Baishya,
all members of Local Mahila Samittee, in their evidence deposed that
on the matter of rape near Naphuk Forest Gate area, on behalf of
their organization, they demonstrated a protest. PW. 16 and 17 also
deposed that after returning from AMCH, Dibrugarh, while the victim
was brought to Naphuk Hospital again, they along with other lady
members met the victim, who told them that accused took her on the
pretext of giving 'Morton' and committed rape on her. Victim had to
take treatment at Dibrugarh and Guwahati. In their cross, PW 16 and
17 admitted that after 15-20 days they met the victim at Bagan
Hospital. Both of them denied the defence suggestion that, while
giving statement to police, they did not state that accused has taken
the victim on the pretext of giving 'Morton' and committed rape with
her.

24. PW- 20 Sri Prabin Kalita, i/o of this case in his evidence deposed
that on 21.12.2014, the written FIR of Dinesh Bhumiz, Sonari PS case
No. 281/14 u/s 3 Pocso Act was registered. Exbt. 6 is the FIR. During
investigation, he went to the place of occurrence i.e. Dipu Line under

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 10 of 29
Naphuk T.E and drawn a sketch map of the PO. Exbt. 7 is the said
Sketch map. He seized the frock and underwear of the victim having
bloodstain. Exbt. 2 is the seizure list. M. Exbt. 1 is the seized frock
containing blood stain. M.Exbt. 2 is the blue pant (underwear) of the
victim. On the next day, he arrested the accused and seized his
underwear containing semen and blood stain. Exbt. 3 is the seizure
list. M.Exbt 3 is the light blue colour (underwear) of the accused
having blood and semen marks. On 23.12.2014, accused was
forwarded to court. During investigation, victim D was initially sent for
medical examination to Sonari wherefrom she was referred to Assam
Medical College & Hospital, (AMCH) Dibrugarh. Victim was sent to
court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. He also seized the
vaginal smear and semen particles collected by Doctor of Sonari from
the inner thigh of the victim in glass slide and sent to FSL, Kahilipara
Guwahati. Exbt. 1 is the seizure list of glass slide. Blood sample of
accused was also collected through Jail Doctor S. Shyam and sent to
FSL Guwahati. On 27.12.2014, he went to AMCH Dibrugarh and
recorded the statement of the victim and her parents. He also
collected FSL report from FSL Guwahati. Exbt. 9 is the FSL report
signed by R. Bora Handique, scientific officer, Serology Department,
Director of Forensic science. Exbt. 10 is the DNA report received from
Director of Forensic science. DNA report was signed by Monalisa
Choudhury, scientific officer, serology division, DNA typing unit of FSL.
On completion of investigation, he submitted charge sheet against
the accused u/s 6 of POCSO Act. Exbt. 11 is the charge sheet. At the
time occurrence the victim was aged about 4% years. He collected
the photocopy of birth certificate of the victim which showed date of
birth of the victim as 21.06.2009. In his cross-examination, the I/O has
deposed that the victim was sent to court for recording her statement
on 26.02.2015 due to late release from medical college. As per his
investigation, after release from AMCH, victim was again admitted at
Naphuk Hospital. He did not collect the discharge certificate of the

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 11 of 29
victim form AMCH or her admission or discharge at Naphuk Hospital.
While forwarding the victim to court for recording her statement u/s
164 Cr.P.C, in the forwarding report, he did not mention the reasons
for the delay in sending her to court but a note was available in CD.
He mentioned the names of 10 members of Mahila Samity as
witnesses but did not examine them individually. Witness Dipak
Bhumij did not state before him that the victim told him that accused
had committed rape on her. Witness Mantu Bhumij did not state
before him that the victim told him that accused had taken her.
Witness Mantu Bhumij did not state before him that he saw the victim
in jungle and also saw bleeding injury from her urinary tract. He did
not record the individual statement of Dimple Kour. She did not state
before him that victim told her that accused took her to jungle on the

pretext of giving morton and committed rape on her.

25. PW. 21 Smt. Renu Bora Handique, Scientific Officer,
Serology Division, FSL Guwahati, on 30.01.2015, she had received one
parcel from Director, FSL in connection with Sonari P.S. Case No.
281/2014. The parcel was in sealed condition and was sent by SDPO,
Charideo, Sonari containing following articles:
1. One old and dirty check multi cloured frock contains stain of
suspected blood and semen, marked as 'A'. Sero - 3441/A.

2. One green coloured old and dirty torn panty contains stain of
suspected blood and semen, marked as 'B'. Sero -3441/B.

3. One vaginal smear glass slide marked as 'B' (sent by DNA
Div.). MR No.87/14. Sero - 3441/C.

4. One air tight glass vial contains crusts of semen taken from
inner aspect of thigh of the victim. MR No.86/14. Sero -
3441/D.

5.One light blue and white & cheek underwear (Jangia)
contains semen and blood, marked as 'E'. Sero - 3441/E.

Result of Examination:

1. Exh. No. Sero - 3441/A, Sero - 3441/E gave positive
test for human semen.

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 12 of 29
2. Exh. No. Sero - 3441/B, Sero - 3441/D gave negative
test for human semen.

3. Exh. No. Sero - 3441/C done by DNA unit in this
laboratory, report will be sent separately.

PW 21 proved her report as Exbt. 21. In her cross-examination,
PW 21 deposed that during examination, no blood stain was found in
the above mentioned Exhibits. She has not compared the semen
found in Exhibits i.e. Sero-3441/A & Sero -3441/E as she has no such
facility. This comparison can be done only by DNA unit.

26. CW 1 Dr. Kripanath Morang, who was called to clarify the date of
examination of victim, aS cropped up during examination of PW 1 and
date of taking the victim for treatment as stated by other witnesses,
in his evidence deposed that, in pursuant to the summons issued to
Superintendent, Sub Divisional Civil Hospital, Sonari, on being
authorised, he has appeared with medico-legal register of the hospital
(book No. 4) containing examination of patient from 17.04.2014 till
06.03.2015. As per above register, on 21.12.2014 at about 7 PM
victim D aged about 5 years D/O Dinesh Bhumiz of Forest Gate,
Naphuk was brought to above hospital with a history of rape by
miscreants in forest at evening hours. The patient examined by Dr.
Pranjal Kumar Chutiya.

Following finding were recorded in the register:
General behaviour:- Patient in subconscious state.

Marks of violence in the Body:- (i) Nail marks over chest and
neck, (ii) Cut mark over centre of lower lip, (ili) Fourchette torn,
(iv) Vaginal tear seen, (v) Bleeding per vagina seen (vil) Hymen
torn, (viii) Vagina - abrasion with tear vaginal introitus (ix) dry
semen seen over inner aspect of thigh.

CW 1 has proved the following documents - Exbt. 11 is the

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 13 of 29
authority letter given to him. Exbt. 12 is the medico legal register.
(proved in original). Exot. 13 is the relevant entries as above in the
medico legal register. (under Objection). The above entries were
made at page No. 186 and its over leaf. As police did not come to
collect the report, the attending doctor did not put his signatures in
the register. In his cross-examination, CW 1 deposed that in the first
line of the report, the column with heading ‘examining the victim’ was
blank. From the name of the individual, it can be said that victim D
was examined on that day. He denied the defence suggestion that
Exbt. 13 is not related to victim D. In Exbt. 13, there is no mention of
the name and signature of attending doctor.

2/7. PW. 22, Dr. Manalisha Choudhury, Scientific Officer, DNA
Typing Unit of Serology Division, Directorate of Forensic Science,
Assam, Kahilipara, in her evidence deposed that on 30.01.2015, while
she was working at DNA Typing Unit of Serology Division, at
Directorate of Forensic Science, Assam, Kahilipara, vide Memo No.
SDPO/CRD/SNR/15/61-63 dated 29.01.2015 she received 2 (two)
parcel per messenger. The parcel 1 consisted of two (2) exhibits
packed in a cartoon box and parcel 2 consisted of one(1) exhibits in
Thermos Flask containing ice which was sealed with the impression

seal corresponding with the seal impression forwarded.

1 |One glass slide. Marked as_ Exhibit
No. DNA 1157/15

2 |One check colored frock and a Marked as_ Exhibit
undergarment of the victim. No. DNA 1158/15

3 |One — sealed EDTA vial  contains|Marked as_ Exhibit
2ml(approx.) liquid blood of Sri Bikash|No. DNA 1159/15
Gowala collected by doctors of District
Jail, Sivasagar with blood = donar
authentication card.

PW 22 also deposed that DNA from the sources of the above

 

exhibits were isolated by organic extraction method and subjected to
multiplex PCR reaction using AmpFLSTR Y filer Kit. The amplified

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 14 of 29
products along with control was run on Automated DNA Sequencer
and analysis was carried out using Genemapper ID v3.7software with
respect to standard ladder.

1. The amplified loci of Exhibit no. DNA 1158/15 matches with the
amplified loci of the Exhibit no. DNA 1159/15.

2. Exhibit No. DNA 1157/15 gave negative result for presence of
spermatozoa. Therefore its comparison with exhibit no. DNA
1159/15 does not arise.

PW 22 proved her report as Ext. 10 and her signature as Ext.
10(1). Ext. 10(2) is the forwarding letter of her report. In her cross-
examination, PW 22 admitted that in the forwarding letter send to
her, the name of the accused was mentioned as Bikash Goala. She
has not received any requisition regarding accused Baisaku Goala. In
a pointed query by this Court, the witness answered that DNA test Is
reliable up to the extent of 99.9%.

28.
Basing on the above evidence on record, let me decide
the points formulated for just decision of the case.

29... Point No. 1: So far age of the victim is concerned, from
the evidence of PW. 2, the victim, it appears that she read in
Anganwadi school. From the evidence of P.W. 4, uncle of the victim it
appears that victim was aged about 5 to 6 years on the date of
incident. From the evidence of PW. 9 Mrs. Jharna Saikia, JMFC
Sivasagar it appears that on 26.02.2015 she recorded the statement
of the victim aged about 4% years. P.W. 12 also deposed that on the
date of incident victim was aged about 4% years. C.W. 1 Dr. Kripanath
Morang who came with the medico-legal register of Sonari Sub-
Divisional Civil Hospital in his evidence stated that as per the record
on 21.12.2014, the victim 'D', aged about 5 years was brought to the
said Hospital for medical check-up. From the evidence of P.W. 6 Dr.

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 15 of 29
Nibedita Shyam, who examined the victim on 22.12.2014 and re-
examined the victim on 27.12.2014 stated that her age is 5 to 6
years. The I/O (PW 20) in his evidence stated that during investigation
he has collected the photocopy of birth certificate of the victim which
show date of birth of the victim as 21.06.2009. While examining the
accused U/S 313 Cr.P.C., accused also did not challenge the above
referred evidences on age of the victim when put to him. This part of
evidence on age of the victim remains unrebutted by the defence. So
from the above evidence from the date of Birth as mentioned by the
I/O it appears that on the date of alleged incident i.e. on 21.12.2014 it
can safely be held that victim 'D' was aged about 5% years.

30. Point No. Il: So far allegation of penetrative sexual
assault on the victim 'D' is concerned, from the evidence of P.W. 1 Dr.
Pranjal Kr. Chutia, the M.O. who has attended the victim at the first
instance, shows that upon examination he found symptom of sexual
assault, Crust of semen was collected from the thigh area of the
victim. BW. 3 Mrs. Jyoti Gogoi, Staff Nurse of Sonari SDCH has
confirmed that crust of semen was collected from the thigh area of
the victim and glass slide was seized by police. C.W. 1 Dr. Kripanath
Morang who appeared with the medico-legal register of Sonari SDCH
in his evidence deposed that on 21.12.2014, at about 7 PM. the
victim was brought to above Hospital with a history of rape and was
examined by Dr. Pranjal Kr. Chutia (P.W.1) and following findings were
recorded - (i) Nail marks over chest and neck, (ii) cut mark over
center of lower lip, (iii) Fourchettee torn, (iv) vagina tear seen, (v)
bleeding per vagina seen, (vi) Hymen torn, (vii) vagina - abrasion with
tear vaginal introitus, (viii) dry semen seen over inner aspect of thigh.
He proved the said medico-legal register as Exbt.11. Exbt. 13 is the
relevant entry. P.W. 6 Dr. Nibedita Shyam, M.O. from AMCH Dibrugarh
who has attended the victim at AMCH Dibrugarh has deposed that on
22.12.2014, at about 9.15 a.m. victim was brought to Casualty where
from she was referred to Surgical Unit-ll. Again the victim was

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 16 of 29
examined on 27.12.2014 in the Department of Pediatric Surgery with
brief history of sexual molestation and upon examination on
22.12.2014 she opined that the findings are suggestive of forceful
vaginal penetration and the injuries as found on 22.12.2014 on the
body and private parts of the victim are approximately 12 hours to 24
hours. The above evidence of P.W. 6 who has attended the victim on
22.12.2014 duly corroborated the evidence of C.W. 1 and the findings
recorded in Exbt. 12 & Exbt. 13. PW. 7, PW. 11 and P.W. 14 in their
evidence also stated regarding finding of bleeding injuries on the
private parts of the victim soon after her recovery from jungle.

31.

So all these witnesses have corroborated to the fact that
on 21.12.2014 the victim, went missing from her house and later on
she was recovered from the jungle area where she was found in
naked condition and the persons who recovered her found injuries on
her private parts and subsequently on the same day victim was taken
to Sonari SDCH where P.W. 1 Dr. Pranjal Kr. Chutia has examined the
victim and recorded his opinion in Exbt. 12 medico-legal register.
However due to non-arrival of police for collecting the said medico-
legal report; the same was not signed by the P.W. 1. However through
C.W. 1 Dr. Kripanath Morang said medico-legal register was brought to
court and proved the relevant entries. This part of findings recorded in
Exbt.13 was duly corroborated by P.W. 6, the M.O. who has attended
the victim at AMCH Dibrugarh who was taken there on the next day of
the incident. P.W. 6, the M.O. basing upon the injuries found on the
person of the victim, has categorically opined that victim was
subjected to forcible penetration. Findings of several injuries on the
private parts of a 5% years old girl leaves no scope of doubt that on
21.12.2014 the victim 'D' was subjected to penetrative sexual assault.
In view of the fact that on the relevant, date, the victim was aged
about 5% years, under section 5(m) of Pocso Act, it becomes
aggravated penetrative sexual assault.

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 17 of 29
32. Point No. Ill: So far role of the accused in causing
alleged aggravated penetrative sexual assault on victim is concerned,
in the course of argument hearing, learned Special P.P. has submitted
that though victim did not speak about the incident of penetrative
sexual assault on her by the accused except stating that accused has
kicked her on her abdomen for which she got pain, yet the other
evidence on record including oral, medical and scientific evidence Is
loud and clear to hold that on 21.12.2014 it was none but accused,
who did the heinous crim. Learned Special P.P. has further pointed out
that at the time of incident, the victim was roughly aged about 5
years only and as such, it may be difficult for her to express the term
of rape/penetrative sexual assault as it is quite natural that she even
did not attain the age of understanding meaning of sex. Learned
Special P.P. has submitted that court should look at the circumstantial
evidence including scientific evidence (PW 22) to determine the role
of the accused by ignoring the statement of the victim.

35.

On the other hand, learned State defence counsel Mr.
D.K.Gohain by putting much emphasis on the evidence of P.W. 2, the
victim and the exaggerations made by witnesses during their
evidence so far implicating the accused with the alleged crime, has
submitted that once the victim has clearly admitted that the accused
did nothing with her except kicking on her abdomen, court should not
ignore her evidence and the other evidence as available on record are
mere hearsay witnesses only. As such they cannot take the place of
primary evidence of the victim. Learned advocate of defence has also
challenged that the DNA report relating to one Bikash Goala and was
not connected with the accused Baisaku Goala. | have considered the
submission of both the sides.

34. From the evidence of P.W. 2, the victim it is seen that
victim in her evidence as narrated herein before, has simply stated

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 18 of 29
that accused is known to her. On being kicked by the accused, she got
pain on her abdomen and except this, nothing was done with her. In
her cross she admitted that accused is her maternal uncle. From Exbt.
5, It appears that in her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C, given before PW 9,
the victim has stated that she was kicked by the accused on her
abdomen and she was taken by him towards the jungle and assaulted
her. She got severe pain. She further stated she was taken by the
accused towards jungle for going to the house of her grand-mother. In
spite of the above statement of victim, same cannot be used in favour
of the accused to hold him not guilty, mainly on the ground that
prosecution has been able to prove that on 21.12.2014 she was
Subjected to penetrative sexual assault by the accused beyond doubt.
| found force on the submission of learned Special P.P. that from a girl
of 5% years, it cannot be expected that she may be in position to
know about sex, its implications and to divulge the same in Court due
to its ambience. Considering above aspect, the entire fact and

circumstances have to be taken into consideration.

35. To find out the implication of accused in committing the
crime of rape on the victim, on careful perusal of the evidence on
record, it appears that none of the witnesses has seen the accused
taking the victim towards the jungle or committing rape with her or
any proximity between the accused and the victim near the jungle.
The entire case is based on scientific evidence collected by the 1.0. of
this case and the disclosure of the victim made to the other witnesses
after her recovery.

36. Now coming to the circumstance of the recovery of the
victim from jungle, it appears that on the date of incident while the
victim was found missing, search was made. This aspect was
supported by PW. 3, RW. 5, PW. 7, RW. 11, PW. 12, P.W. 13 and P.W.
14. From the evidence of P.W. 14, mother of the victim, it appears that
on the date of incident, at about 1.30 p.m., while she returned after

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 19 of 29
collecting fire wood, her mother-in-law informed her that the victim
was missing. By that time, her husband arrived there and they started
searching the victim. Defence during cross-examination did not

challenge this aspect.

ST. As stated earlier, RW. 4 PW. 5, RW. 11, RW. 12, PW. 13,
PW. 14, RW. 16 and PW. 17 in their evidence have categorically
stated that after recovery of the victim or during her treatment, on
asking, the victim has stated that accused by taking her in the jungle,
committed rape on her. However, the victim was silent regarding
reporting of the matter of penetrative sexual assault on her by the
accused to her parents or others. Apart from above, except PW 14,
mother of the victim, the witnesses by themselves or the I/O has
confirmed that they did not disclose the fact that the victim has told
them that accused has committed rape with her. Thus the evidence of
other witness except PW 14, appears to be exaggerated and cannot
be relied upon.

38. Now Coming on scientific evidence, as pointed by learned
Special P.P., from the evidence of P.W. 22, the expert from FSL who has
conducted the DNA finger printing on the blood samples of the
accused collected through due process by the Jail Doctor of Sivasagar
and was sent to FSL, Assam, Kahilipara, Guwahati for comparison with
the blood samples available in the wearing apparels of the victim
clearly indicates that the blood of the accused was matching with the
blood found in the frock of the victim. In a specific question by the
court, the expert has opined that the findings of DNA finger printing
are more or less 100% reliable. The above findings of the PW. 22 was
put to accused during his examination u/s 313 Cr.P.C, but he simply
denied about his knowledge and failed to give any satisfactory reply
as to how the blood samples of the accused are matching with the
blood samples found on the wearing apparels (frock and panty) of the
victim. This DNA test matching of the blood on the wearing apparels

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 20 of 29
of the victim with the blood samples of the accused gives a strong
circumstance against the accused, that it is none but the accused
Baisaku Goala has taken the victim to Jungle and during the process
of committing rape, he also sustained some bleeding injuries on his
penis, which is apparently possible due to tender age of the victim,
and blood of accused has fallen on the wearing apparels of the victim
(frock and undergarment of the victim). Apart from above, finding of
human semen on the wearing apparels of the victim and also finding
of blood and sign of semen on the underwear (Jangia) of the accused
gives another strong presumption against the accused. The defence
argument that the blood samples sent to FSL was in the name of
Bikash Goala and not of Baisaku Goala cannot be accepted to create
doubt on the report of the PW. 22 because the blood samples was
collected from the accused Baisaku Goala by the Jail Doctor through
due process while the accused is was jail. The mistake in writing the
name of the accused deserves to be ignored, which | do accordingly.

39. Under these facts and circumstances, i.e. matching of the
DNA of the blood samples, it appears to me that soon after the
incident, the victim disclosed to her mother (PW 14) about the
accused and under that context, the evidence given by the mother of
the victim that victim has told her that accused took her to jungle and
committed misdeed is relevant and admisible.

40. At this juncture, | would like to mention here that the
alleged incident took place on 21.12.2014 and the victim was brought
to court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. on 22.02.2015 and
for evidence during trial on 28.09.2015. While appreciating the
evidence on record, | am alive to the fact that the victim being a girl
of tender age and have no proper education and hails from a rural
rustic family background and as such, it may not be in her mind to
disclose in great detail as to whom she has reported the matter or
about the incident of sexual assault with her in the jungle on

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 21 of 29
21.12.2014. There is every possibility that, she might have forgotten
the trauma she had suffered on 21.12.2014 and thereafter due to
injuries on her private parts. Under this context, if | relook at her
statement as given u/s 164 Cr.PC, it clearly discloses that, she was
taken to jungle by the accused on some false pretext of taking to
house of grandmother and she was physically assaulted. She
specifically averred that accused is a very bad man. If this part of
evidence along with the medical finding which was done within a very
short time i.e. within three hours of the alleged incident are taken
together, there is no other possibility that anybody else except
accused has committed the penetrative sexual assault on the victim.
Thus, | intend to rely on the evidence of PW 14, mother of the victim
so far her disclosure that after the incident, victim has reported the
matter to her.

41. The defence has failed to bring anything from the
witnesses to show that there is any possibility of false implication by
the informant side. There is nothing on record to show that there was
any previous enmity between the accused and the informant. It is in
the evidence that accused was arrested on the next day of the
incident and police seized his underwear (Jangia) and found
suspected marks of semen and blood. Definitely this part was done
due to disclosure made by the victim to the family members and then
this information passed over to villagers only.

42. Under the above circumstances, | am of the opinion that
the overall evidence of PW 14 is found reliable and trustworthy so far
pointing finger towards the accused Baisaku Goala.

43. Considering all above by placing reliance on the evidence
of PW 14 and PW 22 (DNA expert), | have no hesitation to hold that
accused Baisaku Goala has committed the offence of aggravated
penetrative sexual assault upon the victim 'D', a girl of about 5%
years old and make himself liable for punishment as provided U/S 6 of

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 22 of 29
POCSO Act, 2012.

44. Accused Baisaku Goala is held guilty for the offence
punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and is convicted for the offence
punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.

45. | have considered the applicability of Section 3 & 4 of
Probation of Offenders Act in this case. Considering the nature of the
offence proved by the prosecution and also considering the
punishment provided for the offence, | am not inclined to extend the
benefit of the benevolent provisions of law to the accused.

46. Heard the accused on the point of sentence. His
statement is recorded in separate sheet. | have also heard learned
Advocate for both the sides. Learned Special PP has prayed for
awarding maximum punishment for the accused. Learned State
defence counsel has prayed for leniency in sentence by narrating the
family background of the accused and the fact that since last about 3
14 years accused is in jail and face the trial with the help of legal aid

counsel.

47. Considering the way of committing the offence on a 5%
years old girl child, who did not even have the understanding about
sex and was of the age of running after butterflies, | am of the
considered opinion that it is a fit case for imposing some exemplary
punishment on the accused for committing aggravated penetrative
sexual assault. | find no reason for leniency in sentence by awarding
the minimum punishment prescribed by law as submitted by learned
State defence counsel.

48. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of State of
Punjab v. Gurmit Singh [((1996) 2 SCC 384] has expressed its
anguish on the of the increasing rate of crime against women, has
held as follows:

“21. Of late, crime against women in general and rape in

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 23 of 29
49.

particular is on the increase. It is an irony that while we are
celebrating women's rights in all soheres, we show little or no
concern for her honour. It is a sad reflection on the attitude of
indifference of the society towards the violation of human
dignity of the victims of sex crimes. We must remember that a
rapist not only violates the victim's privacy and personal
integrity, but inevitably causes serious psychological as well as
physical harm in the process. Rape is not merely a physical
assault — it is often destructive of the whole personality of the
victim. A murderer destroys the physical body of his victim, a
rapist degrades the very soul of the helpless female. The courts,
therefore, shoulder a great responsibility while trying an
accused on charges of rape. They must deal with such cases
with utmost sensitivity.

On the point of awarding just sentence in a case of rape,

Hon’ble Supreme Court of India has observed that Shyam Narain v.
State (NCT of Delhi), [(2013) 7 SCC 77] has laid down the law in

following words:

50.

“14. Primarily it is to be borne in mind that sentencing for any
offence has a social goal. Sentence is to be imposed regard
being had to the nature of the offence and the manner in which
the offence has been committed. The fundamental purpose of
imposition of sentence is based on the principle that the
accused must realise that the crime committed by him has not
only created a dent in his life but also a concavity in the social
fabric. The purpose of just punishment Is designed so that the
individuals in the society which ultimately constitute the
collective do not suffer time and again for such crimes. It serves
as a deterrent. True it is, on certain occasions, opportunities
may be granted to the convict for reforming himself but it is
equally true that the principle of proportionality between an
offence committed and the penalty imposed are to be kept in
view. While carrying out this complex exercise, it is obligatory
on the part of the court to see the impact of the offence on the
society as a whole and its ramifications on the immediate
collective as well as its repercussions on the victim.”

In the above referred case of Shyam Narain (Supra),

Hon’ble Supreme Court of India while dealing with the matter of

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 24 of 29
imposition of life imprisonment to the convict for the offence of 376(2)
(f) for committing rape on a 8 year old girl child after discussing
various judgment of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India has held as
follows:

25. Keeping in view the aforesaid enunciation of law, the
obtaining factual matrix, the brutality reflected in the
commission of crime, the response expected from the courts by
the society and the rampant uninhibited exposure of the bestial
nature of pervert minds, we are required to address whether
the rigorous punishment for life imposed on the appellant ts
excessive or deserves to be modified. The learned counsel for
the appellant would submit that the appellant has four children
and if the sentence is maintained, not only his life but also the
life of his children would be ruined. The other ground that is
urged is the background of impecuniosity. In essence, leniency
is sought on the base of aforesaid mitigating factors.

26. It is seemly to note that the legislature, while prescribing a
minimum sentence for a term which shall not be less than ten
years, has also provided that the sentence may be extended up
to life. The legislature, in its wisdom, has left it to the discretion
of the court. Almost for the last three decades, this Court has
been expressing its agony and distress pertaining to the
increased rate of crimes against women. The eight year old girl,
who was supposed to spend time in cheerfulness, was dealt
with animal passion and her dignity and purity of physical frame
was Shattered. The plight of the child and the shock suffered by
her can be well visualised. The torment on the child has the
potentiality to corrode the poise and equanimity of any civilised
society. The age-old wise saying that “child is a gift of the
providence” enters into the realm of absurdity. The young girl,
with efflux of time, would grow with a traumatic experience, an
unforgettable shame. She shall always be haunted by the
memory replete with heavy crush of disaster constantly echoing
the chill air of the past forcing her to a state of nightmarish
melancholia. She may not be able to assert the honour of a
woman for no fault of hers.

27. Respect for reputation of women in the society shows the
basic civility of a civilised society. No member of society can
afford to conceive the idea that he can create a hollow in the
honour of a woman. Such thinking is not only lamentable but
also deplorable. It would not be an exaggeration to say that the
thought of sullying the physical frame of a woman is the
demolition of the accepted civilised norm i.e. “physical
morality”. In such a sphere, impetuosity has no room. The

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 25 of 29
youthful excitement has no place. It should be paramount in
everyone's mind that, on the one hand, society as a whole
cannot preach from the pulpit about social, economic and
political equality of the sexes and, on the other, some perverted
members of the same society dehumanise the woman by
attacking her body and ruining her chastity. It is an assault on
the individuality and inherent dignity of a woman with the
mindset that she should be elegantly servile to men. Rape Is a
monstrous burial of her dignity in the darkness. It is a crime
against the holy body of a woman and the soul of the society
and such a crime is aggravated by the manner in which it has
been committed. We have emphasised on the manner because,
in the present case, the victim is an eight year old girl who
possibly would be deprived of the dreams of “Spring of Life”
and might be psychologically compelled to remain in the
“Torment of Winter”. When she suffers, the collective at large
also suffers. Such a singular crime creates an atmosphere of
fear which is historically abhorred by the society. It demands
just punishment from the court and to such a demand, the
courts of law are bound to respond within legal parameters. It is
a demand for justice and the award of punishment has to be in
consonance with the legislative command and the discretion
vested in the court.

28. The mitigating factors put forth by the learned counsel for
the appellant are meant to invite mercy but we are disposed to
think that the factual matrix cannot allow the rainbow of mercy
to magistrate. Our judicial discretion impels us to maintain the
sentence of rigorous imprisonment for life and, hence, we
sustain the judgment of conviction and the order of sentence
passed by the High Court.”

51. Keeping the law laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India so far awarding of sentence is concerned, though learned State
defence counsel appearing for the accused has prayed for mercy by
referring the family back ground of the accused, | am of the
considered opinion that considering the nature of the brutality in
committing the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual assault on a
5% years old girl as proved by the prosecution, | am of the considered
opinion that accused does not deserve any leniency in sentence. The
maximum sentence provided by law i.e. imprisonment for life with

some amount of fine is the only just sentence in this case.

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 26 of 29
52. Accordingly, convict Baisaku Goala is sentenced to
undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI) for life for committing the offence
punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and also to pay a fine of Rs.
2,000/- (two thousand) only i/d further SI of two month.

53. Convict Baisaku Goala is remanded to District Jail,
Sivasagar to serve out the remaining part of sentence.

54. Convict Baisaku Goala is entitled for the benefit of Section
428 Cr.P.C. for the period already undergone during investigation and

trial.
55. Seized articles, if any, be destroyed in due course of time.
56. Considering the fact of imposing meager amount of fine

due to poor financial back ground of the convict, no order is passed
for payment of compensation to victims U/S 357 Cr.P.C.

57. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the
matter is referred to DLSA Sivasagar for exploring the possibility of
compensation U/S 357A Cr.P.C. Send a copy of the judgment to
Secretary DLSA Sivasagar for needful action.

58. Let a free of cost copy of the judgment be given to
the convict Baisaku Goala immediately as per the provisions of
Section 363 (1) Cr.P.C.

59. Convict Baisaku Goala is informed about his right of
appeal against the judgment and order of conviction and sentence
before Hon'ble Gauhati High Court either by appointing his own
advocate or though legal aid panel advocate or by way of Jail Appeal.

60. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District
Magistrate, Charaideo U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

61. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is
disposed of on contest.

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 27 of 29
Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this 16" day
of August, 2018 at Sivasagar.

Special Judge,
Sivasagar

APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses :
P.W.1- Dr. Pranjal Kr. Chutia (M.O.)

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 28 of 29
P.W.2- Victim 'D'

PW.3- Mrs. Jyoti Gogoi

PW.4- Sri Dipak Bhumij

PW.5- Sri Dinesh Bhumij (Informant)
P.W.6- Dr. Nibedita Shyam (M.O.)
PW.7- Sri Kartik Bhumij

P.W.8- Sri Tonkeswar Dutta

PW.9- Mrs. Jharna Saikia (JMFC)
P.W.10 - Sri Dasarath Pandav

P.W.11 - Smt. Hiramoni Bhumij

P.W.12 - Smt. Protima Bhumij

P.W.13 - Sri Montu Bhumij

P.W.14 - Smt. Phuleswari Bhumij
P.W.15 - Smt. Rajashree Dutta

P.W.16 - Smt. Dimpal Kour

P.W.17 - Smt. Seema Das Rajbanshi
P.W.18 - Smt. Kamala Newar

P.W.19 - Smt. Sangita Baishya

P.W.20 - Sri Prabin Kalita (1.O.)
P.W.21- Smt. Renu Bora Handique (Scientific Officer, FSL)
P.W.22 - Dr. Manalisha Choudhury, Scientific Officer, FSL.

2. Defence witnesses - None

3.

4.

Court witnesses - C.W.1 Dr. Kripanath Morang

Exhibits by prosecution -
Exbt.1 - Seizure list.

Exbt.2 - Seizure list.

Exbt.3 - Seizure list.

Exbt.4 - Medical examination report.

Exbt.5 - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.

Exbt.6 - FIR
Exbt.7 - Sketch map
Exbt.8 -

Exbt.9 - FSL report

Exbt.10 - DNA report of FSL.

Exbt.11 - Charge-Sheet

Exbt.12 - Medico-Legal Register

Exbt.13 - Relevant entries in Exbt.12.

M.Exbt.1 - seized frock of the victim.

M.Exbt.2 - seized blue pant (underwear) of the victim.
M.Exbt.3 - seized light blue colour underwear of the accused.

Special Judge,
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2015 Page 29 of 29
