IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present : Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 03 OF 2018
(G.R. Case No. 1622 of 2017)
Pulibar P.S. Case No. 179 of 2017

Committing Magistrate:-

Md. Abdus Sattar,
Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat District

State of Assam

Versus

Sri Raju Bhuyan @ Barun,

Son of Sri Pranjal Bhuyan,

Resident of Sarucharai T.E. Parbatia Line,

P.S. Pulibar,

District-Jorhat. ... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri M. Kalita & Sri Parag Jyoti Bora,
Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 366 [A] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM

SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 03-01-2018
Date of prosecution evidence : 28-03-2018; 31-05-2018; 26-07-2018;

And 08-10-2018

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 21-12-2018
Date of Argument : 10-01-2019
Date of Judgment : 18-01-2019

SPECIAL CASE NO. 03 OF 2018
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Pulibar P.S. Case No. 179/2017
under Section 366-A of IPC was registered on the basis of a F.I.R. lodged by Sri
Sanjib Kurmi, the informant-cum-elder brother of the victim girl [hereinafter
referred to as ‘X’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 05/06/2017 [Exhibit-3] the informant-
cum-elder brother of the victim girl alleged, /nter-alia, that on 05/06/2017 at
about 1.00 A.M. night his younger sister [X] went missing from the residence. It
is further alleged by the informant in his ejahar that, later on, he came to know
from the villagers and surrounding people that accused Raju Bhuyan @ Barun
had kidnapped his minor younger sister on the previous night at about 1.00 A.M.
who was residing in the house of her elder brother Sri Sanjib Kurmi, the
informant.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-in-charge, Pulibar
P.S., same was registered as Pulibar P.S. Case No. 179/2017 under Section 366
(A) of IPC.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl and accused
surrendered before police. The victim was medically examined by the doctor. Her
statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was recorded by the Magistrate. Police on
completion of investigation filed charge-sheet, in the case, against the above
named accused Raju Bhuyan @ Barun u/S. 366 [A] of IPC vide Charge-sheet No.
101/2017 dated 29-06-2017.

2). Upon production of accused, the learned Additional Chief Judicial
Magistrate, Jorhat, committed the case to this Court for trial after furnishing the

copies to the accused under Section 207 Cr.P.C.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the
prosecution in this behalf, I found ground for presuming that the accused has
committed offences under Section 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Accordingly, I framed

SPECIAL CASE NO.0 7 OF 2018
charge against the accused, which were read over and explained to the accused,

to which, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, O07 [seven] numbers of witnesses
including the victim, her elder brother-cum-informant of the case, Medical Officer
and the I.0. were examined, on behalf of the prosecution, to prove the charge
u/S. 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that on the
relevant day the victim came to him voluntarily. It is his further version that he
had been falsely implicated in the case. The accused pleaded innocence. No

witness was adduced by the accused in his defence.

5). I have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor
for the State as well as Sri M. Kalita being assisted by Sri Parag Jyoti Bora,
learned counsel for the accused, who is facing trial for commission of offence
u/S. 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on or about 04/06/2017 at about 1.00 A.M. might, the
accused named-above, induced the victim girl who was minor at
the time of incident, to do any act or acts with the intent that
she may be or knowing that it is likely that she will be forced [or
seduced] to illicit intercourse with him and thereby committed
an offence punishable under Section 366 [A] of IPC?

2) Whether during the same period and time the accused named
above committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl
aged above fifteen years but below eighteen years and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

SPECIAL CASE NO.0 7 OF 2018
DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

7). First of all, let us see what the relevant provisions of law states to the
charges framed against accused.

Section-366 [A] — Procuration of minor girl-Whoever, by any means
whatsoever, induces any minor girl under the age of eighteen years to
go from any place or to do any act with intent that such girl may be, or
knowing that it is likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse with another person shall be punishable with imprisonment

which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Section-4 — Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to

imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

8). To decide the above points vis-a-vis alleged sections of law let us
examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses alongwith the
relevant documents.

PW-1 is the victim girl of the case. During her deposition in Court she
stated that prior to the incident the accused told her that she should go to his
house which is located at a little distance from her residence. At midnight, she
went to the house of accused. At that time, the accused was standing on the
doorstep of his residence. She resided alongwith the accused in his house till
4.00 A.M. Thereafter, the accused took her to his maternal uncle’s house at
Elengmora in an Ape vehicle where she stayed alongwith him for about 3/5 days.
It is further version of the victim that she slept alongwith the accused and
entered physical relationship on being resisted by her side. Accused co-habited
with her twice. Further version of the victim is that she moved to his elder sister's
house situated at Teok where also both of them stayed for about 5/6 days. At
that time father of accused arrived and directed them to go to the police station.

She gave statement before the learned Magistrate which she exhibited as

SPECIAL CASE NO.0 7 OF 2018
Exhibit-1 and her signatures thereon as Exhibit-1 [1] and Exhibit-1 [2]. She was
also produced before a doctor for medico legal check-up. At present, she is
staying at her parental home.

During cross-examination, she admitted that on her free will and
consent she accompanied the accused to his house on the relevant day. Further,
the accused did not threat or induce her to accompany him to his house. It is her
further version that she did not has any love affair with the accused prior to the

incident.

9). PW-2 is Sri Mohan Kurmi who is the father of victim. This witness
during his testimony stated that at the time of incident he was present inside his
residence. At that time victim was sleeping in his residence with her younger
sister but he did not found the victim on the next day morning. He searched for
his daughter but could not locate her whereabout. Thereafter, his son lodged
ejahar before police regarding missing of his minor daughter [PW-1]. He received
information from police that both of them surrendered at the police station.
Police sent his daughter before a doctor for medical check-up and thereafter she
was produced before the learned Magistrate for recording statement under
Section 164 Cr.P.C.

During cross-examination by defence side, this witness stated that
he does not know how his victim daughter went out from his house to the house
of accused and he does not know about the relationship regarding any love affair

between them.

10). The evidence of Sri Sanjib Kurmi [PW-3] who is the elder brother
of victim-cum-informant of the case is to the effect that on the next day morning
he did not find his minor sister at his residence. He then searched for the victim
alongwith his father but they could not locate her whereabout. Then he lodged
ejahar before police vide Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2 [1] is his signature. It is
further version of this witness that police recovered the victim alongwith the
accused. During course of investigation police seized one HSLC Admit Card of the

victim vide seizure-list [Exhibit-3] wherein Exhibit-3 [2] is his signature.

SPECIAL CASE NO.0 7 OF 2018
This witness during cross-examination by defence side stated that
he cannot say under what circumstance victim stayed with the accused or at
which place. Further, he did not hear any love affair between the accused and

the victim prior to the incident.

11). Sri Rantu Ghatowar [PW-4] and Smt. Nirmali Kurmi [PW-5]
who are neighbours stated that they came to know that the accused took the
victim alongwith him on the date of incident and both of them were found after
15/16 days of missing of the victim. Smt. Nirmali Kurmi further stated that she
was present when police seized the Admit Card of victim vide seizure-list [Exhibit-
3] wherein Exhibit-3 [3] is her signature.

Both these two witnesses during cross-examination by defence side
stated that they do not know anything about the incident and also that they

cannot say whether victim went voluntarily with the accused or not?.

12). Evidence of Md. Sorif Hussain [PW-6] A.S.I. of police, is to the
effect that on 05/06/2017 he was entrusted with the charge of investigation by
the Officer-in-charge, Pulibar P.S. He deposed about the routine steps taken by
him during investigation of the case and thereafter submitted charge-sheet
against the accused after arresting him in connection with the instant case.
During investigation, he prepared Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with
index vide Exhibit-4 wherein Exhibit-4 [1] is his signature. He also seized the
Admit Card of the victim vide seizure-list [Exhibit-2] wherein Exhibit-2 [3] is his
signature. He exhibited the charge-sheet vide Exhibit-5 wherein Exhibit-5 [1] is

his relevant signature.

13). Dr. Ritu Saikia [PW-7] who was the then Lady Medical Officer
on Duty, Jorhat Medical College & Hospital examined the victim girl on
19/06/2017 and opined that the victim is above fourteen years and below sixteen
years; evidence of recent sexual intercourse was not detected on her person;
there was no violence mark on her body at the time of examination and further

that no pregnancy was detected over the person of victim. This witness exhibited

SPECIAL CASE NO.0 7 OF 2018
her medical report [Exhibit-6] and her signatures thereon as Exhibit-6 [1] to
Exhibit-6 [3].

The doctor was not cross-examined by defence side.

14). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that the
victim knew the accused before the incident. Incident occurred on 04/06/2017.
At that time victim was aged 16 years which is revealed from her statement
recorded by the Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. on 16/06/2017 after she
surrendered before police alongwith the accused.

The evidence of Sri Sanjib Kurmi [PW-3] who is the elder brother of
victim-cum-informant of the case is to the effect that on the next day morning he
did not find his minor sister at his residence. He then searched for the victim
alongwith his father but they could not locate her whereabout. Then he lodged
ejahar before police vide Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2 [1] is his signature. It is
further version of this witness that police recovered the victim alongwith the
accused. During course of investigation police seized one HSLC Admit Card of the
victim vide seizure-list [Exhibit-3] wherein Exhibit-3 [2] is his signature.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side stated that
he cannot say under what circumstance victim stayed with the accused or at
which place. Further, he did not hear any love affair between the accused and

the victim prior to the incident.

15). The victim [PW-1] who is the star witness to the incident deposed
before the court that prior to the incident the accused told her that she should go
to his house which is located at a little distance from her residence. At midnight,
she went to the house of accused. At that time, the accused was standing on the
doorstep of his residence. She resided alongwith the accused in his house till
4.00 A.M. Thereafter, the accused took her to his maternal uncle’s house at
Elengmora in an Ape vehicle where she stayed alongwith him for about 3/5 days.
It is further version of the victim that she slept alongwith the accused and
entered physical relationship on being resisted by her side. Accused co-habited
with her twice. Further version of the victim is that she moved to his elder sister's

house situated at Teok where also both of them stayed for about 5/6 days. At

SPECIAL CASE NO.0 7 OF 2018
that time father of accused arrived and directed them to go to the police station.
She gave statement before the learned Magistrate which she exhibited as
Exhibit-1 and her signatures thereon as Exhibit-1 [1] and Exhibit-1 [2]. She was
also produced before a doctor for medico legal check-up. At present, she is
staying at her parental home.

During cross-examination, she admitted that on her free will and
consent she accompanied the accused to his house on the relevant day. Further,
the accused did not threat or induce her to accompany him to his house. It is her
further version that she did not have any love affair with the accused prior to the

incident.

16). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. had

stated that he has been falsely implicated in the case.

17). On scrutinizing the evidence on record, more particularly, the
evidence of victim [PW-1] and considering the entire aspect of the matter and
the evidence, produced by the prosecution, I am of the considered opinion that
the prosecution failed to establish that the accused kidnapped the victim.
Prosecution side also failed to produce the Admit Card of the victim which was
seized by the I.O. vide seizure-list [Exhibit-2] for the reason best known to it to
determine the age of victim at the time of evidence. Medical examination report
of victim [Exhibit-6] shows her age to be in between 14-16 years. The said age
cannot be rigid and can be 18 years also. Hence, accused is entitled to acquittal
under benefit of doubt which I accordingly do.

In the result, accused Sri Raju Bhuyan @ Barun is acquitted of
the charges under Section 366 [A] IPC as well as under Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, levelled against him on
benefit of doubt.

Accused is on bail. The bail bond of accused is extended for another

06 [six] months from today as per provision of Section 437-A Cr.P.C.

SPECIAL CASE NO.0 7 OF 2018
18). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 18" day of
January 2019.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-10

SPECIAL CASE NO.0 7 OF 2018
10

ANNEXURES:-

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

 

 

 

 

 

PW-1 Victim girl.

PW-2 Sri Mohan Kurmi, father of victim.

PW-3 Sri Sanjib Kurmi, elder brother of victim-cum-
informant of the case.

PW-4 Sri Rantu Ghatowar, mason.

PW-5 Miss Nirmali Kurmi, Para-medical student.

PW-6 Md. Sorif Hussain, I.0. of the case.

PW-7 Dr. Ritu Saikia, who examined the victim.

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Statement of the victim under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
Exhibit-2 Seizure-list

Exhibit-3 Ejahar

Exhibit-4 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index
Exhibit-5 Charge-sheet

Exhibit-6 Medical report

MATERIAL EXHIBIT:- NIL

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO.0 7 OF 2018 1 0
SPECIAL CASE NO.0 7 OF 2018

11

11
