IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE :::: SI VASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Special | udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 U/ S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.
(Arising out of Nazira P.S. Case No. 07/2017)

APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution
For the accused

Date of framing Charge
Dates of Evidence

Date of S/D
Date of Argument
Date of J udgment

1. Prosecution case,

enjoying the Bihu feast, accused Latu Das took away the informant's minor
daughter victim 'K' (name withheld), aged about seven years to nearby jungle
area and committed rape on her. On this matter Sri Babu Das, on hearing hue
and cry of his mother, came out of his house on which accused fled away by

leaving the victim in half naked condition. The victim was recovered from the

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Latu DaS ........ceeee eee Accused

Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
Mr. Bikash Dey, Advocate

(Legal Aid Counsel)
20.02.2017
22.03.2017, 19.04.2017, 05.05.2017,
15.06.2017, 15.09.2017
09.11.2017
08.02.2018 & 28.02.2018
13.03.2018

JUDGMENT

in brief, is that on 14.01.2014, one Sri
Parmananda Sharma lodged an FIR with O/C, Nazira Model Police Station
alleging, inter alia, that on 13.01.2017, at about 11.30 P.M., while they were

Said jungle by said Babu Das and Alpana Das.

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017

Page 1 of 26
2. On receipt of the FIR, Nazira P.S. Case No. 7/2017 U/S 4 of POCSO
Act, 2012 was registered and investigated. It may be noted here that, before
filing of the FIR, investigation of this case began on the basis of Nazira PS G D
Entry No. 382 dated 13.01.2017 (Exbt. 7). During investigation, |.0. visited the
place of occurrence, prepared sketch map and recorded the statement of the
witnesses. During investigation, accused was arrested and produced him before
the court for judicial custody. The victim was medically examined and recorded
her statement in the court U/S 164 Cr.P.C. On completion of investigation, 1.0.
has submitted Charge-Sheet U/S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused

person.

3. On receipt of charge sheet, cognizance of offence was taken and
after furnishing copy to the accused and after hearing both the sides, vide
order dated 22.02.2017, charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 has been framed

against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial.

4, During trial, prosecution side has examined as many as eleven
witnesses including two M.O. and |.0. Upon completion of the prosecution
evidence, accused was examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial
and false implication. Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was called
upon to enter into defence.

5. It may be noted here that accused faced the entire trial as UTP.
Initially the accused was defended by his engaged counsel. However,
subsequently refusal of the engaged counsel, accused was provided with the
services of Legal Aid Counsel Mr. Dhiraj Dutta. However at the last stage of trial,
due to appointment of the Legal Aid counsel as PP, Sivasagar, accused was
provided with the services of another Legal aid counsel Mr. Bikash Dey, a senior
member of Bar and due to waiting for taking Charge by Special PP, there was

some delay in disposal of this case.

6. | have finally heard argument of learned Special P.P. Mr. Srimanta

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 2 of 26
Gogoi and Mr. Bikash Dey, learned Legal Aid Counsel and gone through the

evidence on record. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

(I) What was the age of the victim 'K' on the date of incident?

(Il) Whether on 13.01.2017, at about 11.30 PM victim 'K' was
subjected to aggravated penetrative sexual assault by the accused Latu
Das?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. Before going further, let me narrate the evidence of the witnesses

for better understanding of fact in issue.

8. PW-1 Smt. Baby Sharma, mother of the victim K in her evidence
deposed that accused Latu Das is known to her being neighbour. On
13.01.2017, they have organised a feast on occasion of Bihu with neighbours.
Latu das was also dancing on the tune of music. On that day, at about 11 pm,
she sent her daughter victim K to the residence of neighbour Debojit Gogoi, but
her daughter did not return in time. She and other neighbours searched for her
daughter. She has noticed that accused Latu Das was also not there. By that
time, nearby aunt, Alpana Das went to attend the call of nature on her back
yard and heard some noise in the backside jungle. Thinking of coming thief, she
called her son and on this her son Babu Das run to the said place of noise. On
this they also rushed there. By this time victim cried as “Save me, save me”.
Babu Das went there and recovered the victim in half naked condition and
handed over to her. She saw blood coming out from her mouth and genital
part. Her panty, three quarter pant, and the long pant and the sandal (slipper)
which she was wearing were missing. On getting her daughter in this condition,
their landlord’s son Debojit Hazarika informed the matter to police. At about 12
midnight police arrived there and visited the place of occurrence, and recovered
the pants of her daughter, sandal of daughter, Shoes, purse containing voter

card, D/L, ATM card, photo belongs to Latu Das. Police seized those articles. On

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 3 of 26
the same night, her daughter was taken to Nazira SHC. On the next day
morning, her husband Parmananda Sarma lodged the FIR at Nazira PS. On
recovery of victim, on being asked, victim told them that Latu Das has taken
her by grabbing her mouth and threatened her not to make cry else he will kill
her. On her cry, accused slapped her brutally. She also told her that accused by
opening her pant, forcibly committed mis-deed. While she tried to restrain by
pulling her legs, accused forcefully separated her legs. Scratch marks were seen
on her legs. She also told about getting pain on her private parts. During
investigation, police took her and the victim to court and they gave statement
in court. Exbt. 1 is her statement. Exbt. 1(1) and 1(li) are her signature. In her
cross-examination, she admitted that the night of the incident was dark.
Incident took place after 11 pm. She has not seen the accused Latu Das at the
place of occurrence. While giving statement in court, she has not stated that
victim told me regarding getting pain in her private parts. She followed police
while they went to place of occurrence. She has seen police in picking up some
articles and then shown to her. In a query by Court, the witness deposed that
the date of birth of the victim is 26.08.2007. Police seized the birth certificate of
her daughter.

9. PW-2 the victim in her evidence while recognising the accused
Latu Das as neighbour deposed that on the occasion of Bihu at night hours, her
mother sent her to the residence of Debojit uncle to give meat. At that time
accused Latu was dancing alone on the tune of deck. Others went for taking
meal. While she was returning after giving the meat bowl, accused Latu Das
grabbed her mouth and took her to jungle, opened her pants and committed
mis-deed. He also told her that he will give her money purse, ATM Card, mobile
etc. which she threw away. At that time, she wore one panty, one half pant and
one long pant. After grabbing her mouth, accused told her that if she make cry,
he will kill her and flee away. He laid her on ground. He also slapped her and

gave scratch marks on her cheek, thigh. She got pain in her susu (vagina), on

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 4 of 26
her hands when he committed misdeed. He also pinched her mouth and blood
come out. She cried but he gagged her mouth. By this time, mother of Babu
das made cry as thief, thief. On this Latu Das flee away by leaving her in the
jungle. She was picked up by neighbouring uncle. They brought her to her
house. She told the incident to her mother. After some time, police arrived
there. She was taken to hospital and also in court. She gave statement in court.
Exbt. 2 is her statement. Exbt. 2(i) and 2(ii) are her signature. In her cross-
examination, the victim deposed that on the day of incident, Magh Bihu feast
was arranged. It was dark on that night. Accused took her to jungle. She
recognised him as Latu Das. Initially she could not know the name of accused.
Her mother told her his name as Latu Das. She denied the defence suggestions
that, accused is not the same person who took her to jungle and committed
mis-deed. She also denied that on being tutored by her mother, she deposed

implicating the accused Latu Das.

10. PW 3 Dr. Amiya Saikia in his evidence deposed that on
14.01.2017 at about 7.15 p.m., on police requisition, he examined Sri Latu Das,
(accused) in connection with Nazira P. S. Case No. 7/2017 and upon
examination he found 4 (four) Linear abrasions present on left side of face, size
3 cm. X 1lmn. Reddish in colour. The injury marks were recent. He is of the
Opinion that the injury is simple and caused by blunt object. He proved the
report as Ext.3 The scratch mark present on the face of the persons are straight.
These Scratch marks apparently caused by finger nails. In his cross-

examination he admitted that the scratch mark can be done by other objects.

11. PW-4 Sri Debojit Hazarika, in his evidence deposed that accused
and victim are known to him. Victim was aged about 7 years. They are tenant
in his house. Their house is at a distance of about 150 meters from his
residence. On 13.01.2017, at about 11-11.30 PM, while he was in his
residence, on hearing a hue and cry in the BARI area, he went there and met

the mother of the victim. She told him that accused has committed rape on her

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 5 of 26
daughter. He saw bleeding injury on the victim’s private parts. Police arrived
there and took the victim to Medical. Police also went to the place of occurrence
in the nearby jungle area. He accompanied police. Police seized several articles
viz. one pair sports shoe, one hawai chapple, one yellow underpant, 3 quarter
half pant, green colour sleeks, money bag, voter ID card in the name of Latu
Das, One D/L in the name of Latu Das, ATM card, etc. from the said place.
Exbt. 4 Is the seizure list. Exbt. 4(i) is his signature. PW 4 recognised the seized
articles as Material Exhibit (M. Ex.) 1 to 8. He also inquired about the incident
from the victim. In his cross-examination, PW 4 admitted that Police has shown
him the seized articles from some distance. He has not seen the names written
in the seized ID card, D/L etc. at the time of seizure. He heard about the

incident from the mother of the victim only.

12. P.W. 5, Dr. Mukut ch. Deka, the medical officer who had
examined the victim, in his evidence deposed that on 14.01.2017 at about 1.30
p.m., On police requisition, he examined the victim in connection with Nazira P.
S. Case No. 7/2017 U/S 4 of POCSO Act and found as follows :

General History : Menarche - not attained.
General behaviour and mental state - normal.

Mark of violence on the body -

1. 2-3 scratch injury marks (Superficial) and fresh seen in medial
aspects of right thigh.

2. Abrasion injury seen just above the upper lip and blood clot in upper
lip seen.

3. Superficial lacerated injury lateral aspects of right labia muscle of
vagina seen. No bleeding seen.

4. Tear in fourchette of vagina seen.
5. Tear of hymen seen with redness of vagina, oozing of blood seen.
Examination of genitalia -
Pubic hair - absent. Clitoris - normal.

Labia, majora and minora - poorly developed.
Fourchette - tear seen. Hymen - tear.

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 6 of 26
Vagina - redness and oozing of blood seen. Injury - nil
Discharge and stains - blood stain.
Laboratory investigation : (done on 16.01.2017)

 

Vaginal smear test - spermatozoa not seen.
Pregnancy Test (HCG in urine) - report reveals - negative.

Radiological examination :

X-ray left elbow & wrist joint reveals incomplete fusion of
epiphysis of both bone).

13. PW 5 also deposed that in his opinion (i) there is external
evidence of forceful attempt of sexual act is seen, (li) there is multiple marks of
violence on her body seen and, (ili) according to her dentition report and X-ray
report and by appearance her age is about seven years old. He proved the
medical report as Ext. 5. Ext.5(1) is his signature. Exbt.5(2) is the radiological
report of Nazira SDCH. In his cross-examination, PW 5 deposed that tear of
hymen might be caused due to cycling and jumping. In case of hymen is torn,
blood may ooze out. Only by tear of hymen it cannot be said that there is
penetration, but if coupled with the injuries, it may be suspected case of
penetration. He denied the defence suggestions that without examining the
victim’s private parts, he prepared the report on the statement of the victim

only.

14. PW-6 Sri Debojit Gogoi a tenant near to the house of accused, in
his evidence deposed that victim is known to her and might be aged about 6%
years. On 13.01.2017, celebration of Magh Bihu Uruka was going on. They
were enjoying by playing music. By that time accused arrived there and was
dancing. On calling by his wife, he went to his room and asked the mother of
the victim for some meat prepared in her house. She sent the meat bow! with
her daughter (victim K). After 15-20 minutes, mother of victim came there and
searched for the victim but did not find her. Latu Das was also found absent.
After searching for 15-20 minutes, he came to know that victim was found. On

looking at her he saw her cloths torn. Victim was not in a position to talk. Police

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 7 of 26
also went to the back side of the residence of Kalpana Das and recovered some
articles from the said place. Police came to his residential area and shown him
some articles viz one pair sports shoe, one hawai chapple, voter |D card in the
name of Latu Das, One D/L in the name of Latu Das, Pan Card, Mobile Phone
etc. Exbt. 4 is the seizure list. Exbt. 4(il) is his signature. He also recognised the
articles vice M. Ex. 1 to M. Ex. 8 is the D/L in the name of Latu Das. In his cross
examination, PW 6 deposed that he started residing in the said rented premises
prior to one month of the incident. From his room, residence of Latu Das Is ata
distance of about 100 meters. He saw the victim while she came to his house
with meal bowl and thereafter only with police. Initially he has seen the girl
with her mother in naked condition and subsequently due cold wave, her
mother put shawl on her body. It was about 10.30 pm-11 pm. There was
electric light in the area. He did not go with the police while police recovered

the seized articles.

15. PW-7 Smt. Aloana Das @ Majoni, while recognising accused and
victim as neighbours, in her evidence deposed that victim might be aged about
7 years. On 13.01.2017 at about 10-11 pm on getting from sleep, she went on
the back side of her residence for urination. Suddenly, she saw one man
running out from the area and she chased him. Her son Babu Das also followed
her. They both jumped on the down area. There she heard a cry “bachao -
bachao”. There from the victim was recovered by her son Babu Das. She saw
that the victim was naked from waist part. She also saw bleeding injury on her
face, ear, injury on eye etc. By that time girl became senseless. She was taken
to her residence. After some time police arrived there. She shown the place
wherefrom the victim was recovered to Police. Police brought several articles
from the said place viz one pair sports shoe, one hawai chapple, money bag,
cloths etc. of the victim. The |-Card etc. were of Latu Das. Police took the
victim for medical examination. In the area, there was sufficient light in which

she has seen that one person in running away. She cannot recognise the man

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 8 of 26
who ran away. After taking treatment about one month, the victim recovered.
In her cross-examination, she admitted she did not went with police to the
place of occurrence. She cannot say from the seized documents that those

belonged to Latu Das.

16. PW-8 Sri Babu Das in his evidence deposed that on 13.01.2017, at
about 11-11.30 pm, while he was about to sleep, on hearing cry of his mother
(CHOR-CHOR) who went to the back side of their residence for urination, he
followed her. On the back side of his house, he heard a cry “bachao -bachao”.
He went to the area and recognised the victim. He recovered her from the said
place and saw her in naked condition. He saw bleeding injury on her nose, ear
etc. After recovery he handed over the victim to her mother. Their landlord
Debojit informed the matter to police. After some time, police arrived there. He
presumed that the victim was raped. He heard that accused Latu Das has
committed the rape. In his cross-examination, he deposed that while he picked
the girl, she was completely naked. He cannot say what articles were recovered

by police. There was complete dark on their back side.

17. PW-9 Sri Parmananda Sharma, father of the victim in his evidence
deposed that at the time of incident victim was a student of Class III| and aged
about 7 years. On 13.01.2017, after returning from work, while he was
Sleeping, on hearing hue and cry, he got up and learnt that his daughter was
missing. By that time police arrived there and seized some articles findings on
nearby jungle area. He also learnt that rape was committed with the victim.
Police seized several articles viz. one pair sports shoe, one hawai chapple, one
yellow underpant, 3 quarter half pant, green colour sleeks, money bag, voter |D
card in the name of Latu Das, One D/L in the name of Latu Das, ATM card, etc.
from the said place. On this incident he lodged the FIR. Exbt. 6 is the FIR. Exbt.
6(1) is his signature. FIR was written by other on his dictation. He saw injury
marks on various parts of his daughter. In his cross-examination, he deposed

that Latu Das was his neighbour. Feast was going on for Bihu. He denied that

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 9 of 26
he has not seen police in recovery of the seized articles from the jungle area.
He also denied that while Latu Das was dancing in Bihu feast area, his purse

with ATM D/L etc. was fallen and some body has handed over it to police.

18. PW-10 Sri Krishna Bora in his evidence deposed that victim is
known to him being next door neighbour as tenant. On 13.01.2017, they have
organised a feast on occasion of Bihu with neighbours. Latu das was also
dancing on the tune of music. At about 11 - 11.30 pm he went to his residence
for dinner. On hearing a hue and cry, he heard that victim K is missing from the
place and during search, he heard cry of one elderly lady as “chor chor” and
Saw that son of the said lady picked up victim K in necked with injuries. After
some time police arrived there. Police was taken to the place of recovery of
victim K. He went there. On search, he saw that police has found one purse
from the place. Police also recovered and seized one pair sports shoe, one
hawai chapple, one yellow underpant, 3 quarter half pant, green colour sleeks,
money bag , voter ID card in the name of Latu Das, One D/L in the name of
Latu Das, ATM card, etc. from the said place. Exbt. 4 is the seizure list. Exbt.
A(iil) is his signature. He also recognised the seized articles as M. Ex. 1 to M.
Ex. 8. In his cross-examination, PW 10 deposed he along with 15-20 persons
went with Police at the place of recovery. Money bag (purse) was found there
by some one of them from the jungle at the spot. Police has shown him
recovered articles. He cannot say who found the purse. It is not a fact that the
purse with ATM D/L etc. was found at different place by somebody and handed

over it to police.

19. PW-11 Sri Nurtaz Ali in his evidence deposed that on 13.01.2017
at about 11.30 PM the then O/C has received one information over phone from
Debojit Hazarika of Amolapatty Nazira regarding rape on a 7 year old girl by
Latu Das and that the said Latu Das fled away from the place of occurrence. On
getting this information, same was entered in G D Entry book vide G D Entry
No. 382 dated 13.01.2017 and entrusted him to proceed to the place of

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 10 of 26
occurrence and to investigate the matter. Exbt. 7 Is the abstract certified copy
of Nazira Model PS G D Entry No. 382 dated 13.01.2017. Exbt. 7(i) is the
Signature of the then O/C Apurba Kumar Bora. Accordingly at 11.45 pm, he
arrived at Amolapatty area and went to the residence of Debojit Hazarika and
saw that one minor girl was in the lap of her mother and from the local
gathering, he came to know that the said girl was raped by Latu Das and they
have recovered the victim from nearby jungle. On this he went to the residence
of mother of the victim which is a tenanted premise of Debojit Hazarika. He
drew a sketch map of the said place of occurrence of first incident. Exbt. 8 is
the sketch Map. Thereafter as shown and led by witness Babu Das, he went to
the place of second place of occurrence and a small jungle area beside a pond
where the alleged occurrence of rape took place. He drew a sketch map of the
Said place of occurrence of second incident. Exbt. 9 is the sketch Map. During
inspection of the second place of occurrence, he found one pair sports shoe,
one hawai chapple, one yellow underpant, one 3 quarter half pant, one green
colour sleeks, one money bag containing voter ID card in the name of Latu Das,
One D/L in the name of Latu Das, ATM card, etc. from the said place. Exbt. 4 is
the seizure list. Exbt. 4(iv) is his signature. He recognised the seized articles as
M. Ex. 1 to M. Ex. 8. He recorded statement of witnesses and sent the victim
for medical examination at Naziara CHC. On 14.01.2017, at about 1 PM father
of the victim Paramananda Sarma has lodged a formal FIR on which Nazira PS
case No. 7/16 u/s 4 of POCSO Act was registered and he was entrusted to do
the further investigation of the case. On 14.01.2017 the victim was sent to
Ligiripukhuri Civil Hospital for detail medical check up. Some more examinations
were done on 16.01.2017. During investigation, on 14.01.2017, he
apprehended the FIR named accused Sri Latu Das from his residence. Upon
noticing scratch mark on his left side cheek and over eyes, he sent the accused
for detail medical examination to Nazira SHC. He has photographed the face of
the accused showing injury marks. Exbt. 10(i) to 10(iii) are the said

photographs. Latu Das was sent to Court for remand. On 14.01.2017 the victim

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 11 of 26
and her mother were sent to Court for recording their statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. During investigation he has collected birth certificate of the victim. Exbt.
11 is the seizure list. As per the birth certificate the date of Birth of the victim is
26.08.2007. After seizure, he handed over the original certificate in zimma of
the mother of the victim and kept xerox copy in CD. On completion of
investigation, he submitted charge sheet against the accused Latu Das u/s 4 of
POCSO Act. Exbt. 12 is the charge sheet.

20. In his cross-examination, PW 11 admitted that he started the
investigation on the basis of G D Entry No. 382 dated 13.01.2017. The
information leading to G D Entry was specific against the accused Latu Das. On
his arrival, on seeing the victim, though he wanted to send the victim for
medical examination first, but as desired by local gathering, he went to the
place of occurrence. While he went to the second place of occurrence, about 6-
7 persons went with him to said place. He has not drawn any sketch map
where the feast was organised. In the notes in the CD, he has mentioned that
the distance from the first place of occurrence i.e. courtyard of rented
premises, to the second place of occurrence i.e. the place of alleged rape was
about 50 meters. The above distance or the way by which path victim was
taken to second place was not mentioned in the sketch map. Place of alleged
rape in an open jungle and easily accessible from three side. He has not sent
the seized articles for determination of their ownership or for expert opinion. At
the place of second occurrence, the seized articles were found scattered and
the persons went with him to the said PO, has helped him in collecting the
Same and accordingly, he seized the same. He cannot say, if any person threw
any of the seized article there and then shown him the item. While he went to
the PO, 4 other police staffs were with him. They all have actively searched the
second Place of occurrence. At the said second place of occurrence there was
no sufficiency of light. Witness Alapna Das in her statement before him did not

state that while she chased the accused, her son Babu Das also followed her.

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 12 of 26
21. From the above evidence on record, let me decide the points

formulated for just decision of this case.

22. Point No.1: So far age of the victim is concerned P.W. 4, P.W. 6 and
P.W. 7, the neighbours of the victim and P.W. 9, father of the victim in their
evidence stated that at the time of incident the victim 'K' was aged about 7
years and she was a student of Class-III. P.W. 5, the M.O. who has examined
the victim has deposed that as per his opinion based on radiological report and
dentition report and by appearance the age of the victim is seven years. P.W.
11, the 1.0. in his evidence stated that during investigation, he has collected
the birth certificate of the victim and proved the same vide Exbt. 11.He further
deposed that as per the birth certificate the date of birth of the victim 'K' is
26.08.2007. The incident of this case took place on 13.01.2017. So as per the
birth certificate, the victim was about 9 years 4% months on the date of
occurrence. The victim in her evidence also claimed her age as 9 years. This
part of evidence on age of the victim remained unchallenged by the defence. As
such, it can safely be held that on the date of incident the victim 'K' was below

the age of 10 years.

23. Point No. Il: So far allegation of aggravated penetrative sexual
assault is concerned, from the evidence of P.W. 1, mother of the victim, it
appears that after recovery of the victim in half naked condition she saw blood
coming out from her mouth and genital part. P.W. 2, the victim also stated that
after laying her on the ground, when misdeed was committed she got pain on
her vagina. P.W. 5 Dr. Mukut Ch. Deka, who examined the victim 'K' on the
next day of the incident found the following marks of violence on her body - (i)
2-3 scratch injury marks (superficial) and fresh seen in medial aspects of right
thigh; (i!) Abrasion injury seen just above the upper lip and blood clot in upper
lip seen; (ili) Superficial lacerated injury lateral aspects of right labia muscle of
vagina seen. No bleeding seen; (iv) Tear in forchette of vagina seen; (v) Tear

of hymen seen with redness of vagina, oozing of blood seen. The M.O. also

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 13 of 26
opined that upon examination of victim 'K', he is of the opinion that there is
external evidence of forceful attempt of sexual act and multiple marks of
violence seen on her body. In his cross-examination, the M.O. stated that tear
of hymen might be caused due to cycling and jumping. In case of hymen is tear,
blood may ooze out. Medical Officer has also opined that only by tear of hymen,
it cannot be said that there is penetration, but if coupled with the injuries, it
may be suspected case of penetration. P.W. 10 in his evidence deposed that
after recovery of the victim he saw injury on face, body, leg and private parts of

the victim at the veranda in electric light.

24. Basing on the evidence of medical officer as narrated above, in
the case in hand, it is apparent that the victim was subjected to penetrated
sexual assault. The defence argument that the evidence is insufficient to hold
penetrative sexual assault and at the best it may be treated as attempt of
penetrated sexual assault cannot be accepted. The medical evidence is loud
and clear that not only hymen was found torn but oozing of blood from vagina
and the peripheral injury on private parts of the victim indicates of penetrative

sexual assault on her.

25. As at the time of occurrence, the victim was below 12 years of age,
as per Section 5 (m) of POCSO Act,2012 the offence of penetrative sexual
assault becomes aggravated penetrative sexual assault and liable for

punishment u/s 6 of Pocso Act, 2012.

26. Now the prime question falls for determination is whether the
accused is the perpetrator of the crime of aggravated penetrative sexual assault

on the victim K.

2/. In the course of argument hearing, learned Special P.P. Mr.
Srimanta Gogoi has vehemently argued that apart from the evidence of the
victim identifying the accused in taking away her while she was returning after

giving meat bowl to her neighbour, the identity of the accused is no way

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 14 of 26
doubtful in this case and accused in his examination U/S 313 Cr.P.C. failed to
explain the circumstances under which the purse containing his D/L, voter
identity card, ATM card were found at the place of occurrence as seized by
police. Learned Special P.P. further argued that just before the incident accused
Latu Das suddenly disappeared from the place of dancing and as such after
recovery of the victim, a presumption is attributed against him and accordingly
same might have been informed to police and got his name in the G D Entry.
On the other hand, learned Legal Aid Counsel Mr. Bikash Dey has submitted
that in this case there is no eye witness of the occurrence except the victim and
none has seen the accused in taking away the girl or committing the alleged
offence or fleeing away of the accused from the jungle. The only circumstance
which appears against the accused is recovery of the purse containing voter
card, ATM card, Driving License issued in the name of the accused which were
allegedly recovered upon search conducted in presence of police officer. It is
further argued that while informing the matter to police over phone, though the
name of the accused was specifically mentioned, but by that time nobody knew
that accused Latu Das has taken away the victim. It is also argued that the
victim was found in unconscious state and as such, she was not in a position to
take the name of the accused Latu Das, which is evident from her deposition.
So involvement of the accused Latu Das with the alleged crime appears to be
doubtful. It is further argued that though one pair of sports shoe were
recovered, but the ownership was not established. Under these circumstances,
learned legal aid counsel has prayed for extending the benefit of doubt to the
accused. | have considered the submission of learned Advocate for both the

sides.

28. There is an admitted fact that on 13.01.2017 at night hours, a
feast was going on the occasion of Magh Bihu near the house of the informant
and neighbouring people took part in the said feast. It is also admitted that

accused Latu Das came there and was dancing with neighbours on the tune of

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 15 of 26
music playing at that place. It is evident in the evidence of P.W. 1, mother of
the victim that at about 11.00 P.M. she sent her daughter victim 'K' to the
residence of neighbour Debojit Gogoi, but her daughter did not return in time
and by that time she also noticed that accused Latu Das was also not there.
Sending of the victim to the house of Debojit Gogoi was confirmed by said
Debojit Gogoi (P.W. 6). He deposed that when he asked the mother of the
victim for some meat prepared in their house, she sent the meat-bowl with her
daughter victim 'K' and after 15-20 minutes peoples searched for the victim but
did not find her and accused Latu was also found absent. Thus it is proved that

while victim has returned from the house of PW 6, she got missing.

29. From the evidence of P.W. 7 it appears that on 13.01.2017, at
about 10-11 P.M. on getting up from sleep, she went to the back side of her
house for urination and then suddenly saw one man running out from the area.
On this, she chased the boy and her son Babu also followed her. They both
jumped on the down area and there she heard a cry “Bachao, Bachao” and
there from her son Babu Das recovered the victim 'K' in half naked condition.
This part of evidence was duly corroborated by P.W. 8 Babu Das (son of P.W.
7). From the evidence of PW 7, it appears that on 13.01.2017, at about 11-11-
30 PM, while he was about to sleep, on hearing cry of his mother 'Chor, Chor'
he went on the backside of their house and followed his mother where he also
heard a cry 'Bachao, Bachao”. He went to the area and recognized the victim
and recovered her from the said place in naked condition. The victim was
brought and handed over to her mother. This part of evidence, i.e. recovery of
the victim and handing over to her mother was duly corroborated by P.W. 1,
mother of the victim and P.W. 2, the victim herself. P.W. 6 has confirmed the
evidence of P.W. 7 and P.W. 8. This part of evidence that victim was found in
naked condition on the backside of the residence of the P.W. 7 and P.W. 8 and
that she was recovered there from by P.W. 8 and handing over to her mother's

lap remained unrebutted and unshaken during their cross examination.

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 16 of 26
30. Now so far the identity of the accused is concerned, the victim
while deposing as PW 2 has vividly the described the incident. She clearly
Stated that accused Latu Das is known to her being neighbour. While she was
returning after giving the meat bowl, accused Latu Das grabbed her mouth and
took her to jungle. By taking there, Latu das has opened her pants and
committed mis-deed. He also told her that he will give her money purse, ATM
Card, mobile etc. which she thrown away. After grabbing her mouth he told her
that if she makes cry he will kill her and flew away. He laid her on ground. He
also slapped her and gave scratch marks on her cheek, thigh. She got pain in
her susu (vagina), when he committed misdeed. He also pinched her mouth
and blood come out. She has cried but he hold her mouth. By this time, Mother
of Babu das made cry as thief, thief. On this Latu Das flew away by leaving her
in the jungle. She was picked up by neighbouring uncle. She gave statement in
court. Exbt. 2 is her statement. In her cross-examination, accused took her to
jungle. She recognised him as Latu Das. She denied the defence suggestion
that the accused is not the same person who took her to jungle and committed
mis-deed. Thus from above, it is clear that being neighbour, accused is known
to her may not be by name but by face. In her evidence, without any doubt,
she recognised the accused as the person who took her to jungle, laid her on
ground, opened her cloths and committed misdeed and then upon coming of

PW 7, fled away from the place.

31. On the point of admissibility of evidence of rape victim, Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India in the case of State of H.P. v. Asha Ram, (2005) 13
SCC 766 has held as follows:-

“5. We record our displeasure and dismay, the way the High Court dealt
casually with an offence so grave, as in the case at hand, overlooking the
alarming and shocking increase of sexual assault on minor girls. The
High Court was swayed by the sheer insensitivity, totally oblivious of the
growing menace of sexual violence against minors much less by the
father. The High Court also totally overlooked the prosecution evidence,
which inspired confidence and merited acceptance. It is now a well-

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 17 of 26
settled principle of law that conviction can be founded on the testimony
of the prosecutrix alone unless there are compelling reasons for seeking
corroboration. The evidence of a prosecutrix is more reliable than that of
an injured witness. The testimony of the victim of sexual assault is vital,
unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate looking for
corroboration of her statement, the courts should find no difficulty in
acting on the testimony of a victim of sexual assault alone to convict an
accused where her testimony inspires confidence and is found to be
reliable. It is also a well-settled principle of law that corroboration as a
condition for judicial reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix is not a
requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under the given
circumstances. The evidence of the prosecutrix is more reliable than that
Of an injured witness. Even minor contradictions or insignificant
discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix should not be a ground
for throwing out an otherwise reliable prosecution case.”

32. Apart from the evidence of victim, which alone is found wholly
reliable and trust worthy on the fact that it the accused Latu Das and none but
him who has committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim
(PW 2), to get further corroboration on the point of identity of the accused;
from the evidence of P.W. 1, P.W.4, P.W.6, P.W.7, P.W.8 and P.W.10 it appears
that after recovery of the victim, the matter was informed to police over phone.
From the evidence of P.W. 11, the 1.0. it appears that on 13.01.2017, at about
11.30 P.M. one Debojit Hazarika (P.W. 4) has informed over phone to Nazira
P.S. regarding commission of rape on a seven years old girl by Latu Das and
that the said Latu Das flew away from the area. PW 11 also deposed that on
getting this information, a GD Entry was made vide Nazira P.S. GD Entry No.
382, dated 13.01.2017 (Exbt. 7) and accordingly at 11.45 P.M. he arrived at the
place of occurrence and saw the victim in the lap of her mother. From the
evidence of P.W.11 it also appears that as shown and lead by Babu Das (P.W. 8)
he went to the second place of occurrence, i.e. a small jungle area beside a
pond where the alleged occurrence of rape took place. During inspection of the
Said place, he found one pair of sports shoe, one pair of Hawai Chapple, one
yellow under-pant, one 3 quarter half-pant, one green colour sleeks, one

money bag containing voter ID card, one Driving License, one ATM card, all

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 18 of 26
issued in the name of accused Latu Das (material Exbt. 1 to Mat Exbt. 8) and
he seized those articles vide Exbt. 4. This part of evidence regarding finding of
the above articles was duly confirmed and corroborated by P.W.4, P.W.6 and
P.W.10, the seizure witnesses. In their cross examination P.W. 10 stated that
he along with 15-20 peoples went to the place of recovery and some one of
them picked up the said purse from the jungle and handed over to police. This
part of the evidence was confirmed by the 1.0. P.W.11, 1.0. in his cross
examination stated that while he went to the second place of occurrence, about
6-7 persons went there and the seized articles were found scattered and the
persons went with him to the said place has helped him in collecting the same
and accordingly he seized those articles. He further stated that four other police
Staff went to the second place of occurrence with him and they actively
searched the said place of occurrence. The |.0. in his cross examination also
Stated that the second place of occurrence is at a distance of 50 meters from
the court-yard of the residence of victim. Even the victim in her evidence stated
that while accused gave his money bag to her, she threw the same and this
reinforces the fact as to how the same was found lying in the jungle and
improbablise the defence argument that it might have fallen at dance place and
handed over to police.

33. From the above evidence, so far search and seizure is made, it
appears that prosecution has been able to prove beyond doubt that the articles
found at the second place of occurrence of rape which includes the money bag
of the accused having voter ID card, one Driving License, one ATM card, all
issued in the name of accused Latu Das. The defence argument that those
might have fallen at the place of dancing those were handed over to police is
nothing but mere hypothesis in view of unshaken evidence of seizure witnesses.
From the evidence available on record it is crystal clear that the money bag was
found at the place of commission of rape and not at the place of dancing. All

these matters have been specifically put to the accused Latu Das during 313

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 19 of 26
Cr.P.C. examination, but he could not give any satisfactory explanation as to
how these articles were recovered from the said jungle area where the victim
'K' was found lying in naked condition. The accused never denied the existence
of his purse or the voter ID card, D/L or ATM card in his named. On a specific
question vide Question No. 66 during 313 Cr.P.C. examination, the accused

simply stated that he cannot say how his money bag has fallen.

34, From the recovery of the above articles from the said jungle area
where the victim 'K' was found, clearly shows that it is none but the accused
Latu Das who has committed the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual
assault on the victim 'K'. The argument that informing the police by specifying
the name of Latu Das just after the incident could not shatter on the abundance
of evidence available against the accused, both circumstantial and direct

evidence as led by prosecution through P.W. 1 to P.W. 11.

35. Apart from above unimpeachable circumstance, prosecution has
brought another strong circumstance evidence against the accused showing his
involvement with the alleged crime. By examining PW 3 prosecution has
brought that on 14.01.2017 at about 7.15 p.m., on police requisition, accused
Latu Das examined at Nazira Subsidiary Health Centre, Nazira and upon
examination the medical officer has found 4 (four) Linear abrasions present on
left side of face, size 3 cm. X 1mn. Reddish in colour. The medical officer has
also opined that the scratch mark present on the face of the victim is straight .
These Scratch marks apparently caused by finger nails. |/O has proved the
photographs of the face of the accused as Exbt. 10 (i) to 10 (iii), which clearly
shows presence of 4 (four) strait linear abrasions present on left side of face of
accused. It shows the possibility of nail marks of the victim during attempt of
penetrative sexual assault on her. Accused failed to explain as to how those
marks come on his face. This also raises a strong presumption against the

accused for showing his involvement in the alleged offence of rape.

36. To sum up the discussion, | am of the considered opinion that

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 20 of 26
there is no scope of doubt that on 13.01.2017, at about 11.00 P.M. while the
victim went to the residence of P.W. 6 for giving a meat-bowl and was
returning home, accused Latu Das took her to jungle on the backside of the
house of P.W. 7 and P.W. 8 and after opening her pant (as deposed by victim)
committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim and during that process
while P.W. 7 came to the backside of her house for urination, on sensing her
presence accused Latu Das flew away leaving behind the victim and during that
process one pair of shoe and failed to collect his purse containing voter |D card,
one Driving License, one ATM card, all issued in the name of accused Latu Das
as thrown by the victim at that place, and that subsequently the victim was

recovered by PW 8.

37. Considering all above, | have no hesitation to hold that accused
Latu Das has committed the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual assault
upon the victim 'K', a girl of about 9 years old and make himself liable for
punishment as provided U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.

38. In view of above, | hold the accused guilty for the offence
punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and accordingly accused Latu Das is
convicted for the offence punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.

39. | have considered the applicability of Section 3 & 4 of Probation of
Offenders Act in this case. Considering the nature of the offence proved by the
prosecution and also considering the punishment provided for the offence, | am
not inclined to extend the benefit of the benevolent provisions of law to the

accused.

40. Heard the accused on the point of sentence. His statement is
recorded in separate sheets. | have also heard learned Advocate for both the
sides. Learned Special PP has prayed for awarding maximum punishment for
the accused. Learned Legal Aid counsel has prayed for leniency in sentence by

narrating the family background of the accused.

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 21 of 26
41. Considering the way of committing the offence on a 9 year old girl
child, who might have not yet understood about sex and is of the age of
running after butterflies, | am of the considered opinion that it is a fit case for
imposing some exemplary punishment on the accused for committing
aggravated penetrative sexual assault on 9 years old girl, i.e. victim 'K'. | find
no reason for leniency in sentence by awarding the minimum punishment

prescribed by law as submitted by learned legal aid counsel.

42. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of State of
Punjab v. Gurmit Singh [(1996) 2 SCC 384] has expressed its anguish on the

of the increasing rate of crime against women, has held as follows:

“21. Of late, crime against women in general and rape in particular is on the
increase. It is an irony that while we are celebrating women's rights in all
spheres, we show little or no concern for her honour. It is a sad reflection
on the attitude of indifference of the society towards the violation of human
dignity of the victims of sex crimes. We must remember that a rapist not
only violates the victim's privacy and personal integrity, but inevitably
causes serious psychological as well as physical harm in the process. Rape is
not merely a physical assault — it is often destructive of the whole
personality of the victim. A murderer destroys the physical body of his victim,
a rapist degrades the very soul of the helpless female. The courts, therefore,
Shoulder a great responsibility while trying an accused on charges of rape.
They must deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity.

43. On the point of awarding just sentence in a case of rape, Hon’ble
Supreme Court of India has observed that Shyam Narain v. State (NCT of
Delhi), [((2013) 7 SCC 77] has laid down the law in following words:

“14. Primarily it is to be borne in mind that sentencing for any offence has a
social goal. Sentence is to be imposed regard being had to the nature of the
offence and the manner in which the offence has been committed. The
fundamental purpose of imposition of sentence is based on the principle
that the accused must realise that the crime committed by him has not only
created a dent in his life but also a concavity in the social fabric. The
purpose of just punishment is designed so that the individuals in the society
which ultimately constitute the collective do not suffer time and again for
such crimes. It serves as a deterrent. True it is, on certain occasions,
opportunities may be granted to the convict for reforming himself but it is
equally true that the principle of proportionality between an offence
committed and the penalty imposed are to be kept in view. While carrying

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 22 of 26
out this complex exercise, it is obligatory on the part of the court to see the
impact of the offence on the society as a whole and its ramifications on the
immediate collective as well as its repercussions on the victim.”

44. In the above referred case of Shyam Narain (supra), Hon’ble
Supreme Court of India while dealing with the matter of imposition of life
imprisonment to the convict for the offence of 376(2)(f) for committing rape on
a 8 year old girl child after discussing various judgment of Hon’ble Supreme

Court of India has held as follows:

25. Keeping in view the aforesaid enunciation of law, the obtaining factual
matrix, the brutality reflected in the commission of crime, the response
expected from the courts by the society and the rampant uninhibited
exposure of the bestial nature of pervert minds, we are required to address
whether the rigorous punishment for life imposed on the appellant is
excessive or deserves to be modified. The learned counsel for the appellant
would submit that the appellant has four children and if the sentence is
maintained, not only his life but also the life of his children would be ruined.
The other ground that is urged is the background of impecuniosity. In
essence, leniency is sought on the base of aforesaid mitigating factors.

26. It is seemly to note that the legislature, while prescribing a minimum
sentence for a term which shall not be less than ten years, has also
provided that the sentence may be extended up to life. The legislature, in
its wisdom, has left it to the discretion of the court. Almost for the last three
decades, this Court has been expressing its agony and distress pertaining to
the increased rate of crimes against women. The eight year old girl, who
was supposed to spend time in cheerfulness, was dealt with animal passion
and her dignity and purity of physical frame was shattered. The plight of the
child and the shock suffered by her can be well visualised. The torment on
the child has the potentiality to corrode the poise and equanimity of any
civilised society. The age-old wise saying that “child is a gift of the
providence” enters into the realm of absurdity. The young girl, with efflux of
time, would grow with a traumatic experience, an unforgettable shame. She
Shall always be haunted by the memory replete with heavy crush of disaster
constantly echoing the chill air of the past forcing her to a state of
nightmarish melancholia. She may not be able to assert the honour of a
woman for no fault of hers.

27. Respect for reputation of women in the society shows the basic civility
of a civilised society. No member of society can afford to conceive the idea
that he can create a hollow in the honour of a woman. Such thinking is not
only lamentable but also deplorable. It would not be an exaggeration to say
that the thought of sullying the physical frame of a woman is the demolition
of the accepted civilised norm i.e. “physical morality”. In such a sphere,
impetuosity has no room. The youthful excitement has no place. It should

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 23 of 26
be paramount in everyone's mind that, on the one hand, society as a whole
cannot preach from the pulpit about social, economic and political equality
of the sexes and, on the other, some perverted members of the same
society dehumanise the woman by attacking her body and ruining her
chastity. It is an assault on the individuality and inherent dignity of a
woman with the mindset that she should be elegantly servile to men. Rape
is a monstrous burial of her dignity in the darkness. It is a crime against the
holy body of a woman and the soul of the society and such a crime is
aggravated by the manner in which it has been committed. We have
emphasised on the manner because, in the present case, the victim is an
eight year old girl who possibly would be deprived of the dreams of “Spring
of Life” and might be psychologically compelled to remain in the “Torment
of Winter”. When she suffers, the collective at large also suffers. Such a
singular crime creates an atmosphere of fear which is historically abhorred
by the society. It demands just punishment from the court and to such a
demand, the courts of law are bound to respond within legal parameters. It
is a demand for justice and the award of punishment has to be in
consonance with the legislative command and the discretion vested in the
court.

28. The mitigating factors put forth by the learned counsel for the appellant
are meant to invite mercy but we are disposed to think that the factual
matrix cannot allow the rainbow of mercy to magistrate. Our judicial
discretion impels us to maintain the sentence of rigorous imprisonment for
life and, hence, we sustain the judgment of conviction and the order of
sentence passed by the High Court.”

45. Keeping the law laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India so
far awarding of sentence is concerned, though learned legal aid counsel
appearing for the accused has prayed for mercy by referring the family back
ground and children of the accused, | am of the considered opinion considering
the nature of the brutality in committing the offence of aggravated penetrative
sexual assault on a 9 year old girl as proved by the prosecution, | am of the
considered opinion that accused does not deserve any leniency in sentence.
The maximum sentence provided by law i.e. imprisonment for life with some

amount of fine is the only just sentence in this case.

46. Accordingly, convict Latu Das is sentenced to undergo rigorous
imprisonment (RI) for life for committing the offence punishable U/S 6 of Pocso
Act, 2012 and also to pay a fine of Rs. 2,000/- (two thousand) only i/d further

S| of two month.

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 24 of 26
47. Convict Latu Das is remanded to District Jail, Sivasagar to serve

out the remaining part of sentence.

48. Convict Latu Das is entitled for the benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C.

for the period already undergone during investigation and trial.
49. Seized articles be returned to its owners in due course of time.

50. Considering the fact of imposing meager amount of fine due to
poor financial back ground of the convict, no order is passed for payment of

compensation to victims U/S 357 Cr.P.C.

51. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the matter is
referred to DLSA Sivasagar for exploring the possibility of compensation U/S
357A Cr.P.C. Send a copy of the judgment to Secretary DLSA Sivasagar for

needful action.

52. Let a free of cost copy of the judgment be given to the convict

Latu Das immediately as per the provisions of Section 363(1) Cr.P.C.

53. Convict Latu Das is informed about his right of appeal against the
judgment and order of conviction and sentence either by appointing his own

advocate or though legal aid panel advocate or by way of J ail Appeal.

54. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

55. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case Is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this 13 day of March,
2018 at Sivasagar.

Special | udge,
Sivasagar

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 25 of 26
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses -

P.W.1 -
P.W.2 -
P.W.3 -
P.W.4 -
P.W.5 -
P.W.6 -
P.W.7 -
P.W.8 -
P.W.9 -

Smt. Baby Sharma

(Victim)

Dr. Amiya Saikia (M.O.)

Sri Debojit Hazarika

Dr. Mukut Ch. Deka (M.O.)

Sri Debojit Gogol

Smt. Alpana Das @ Majoni

Sri Babu Das

Sri Parmananda Sharma (Informant)

P.W.10 - Sri Krishna Bora
P.W.11 - Sri Nurtaz Ali (1.0.)

2. Defence witnesses : None
3. Court witnesses None
4. Exhibits by prosecution -

Exbt.1
Exbt.2
Exbt.3
Exbt.4
Exbt.5
Exbt.6
Exbt.7

Exbt.8
Exbt.9

Exbt.10 (1
Exbt.11 -
Exbt.12 -

M.Exbt.1 -

164 Cr.P.C. statement of the witness Baby Sharma.

164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.

Medical examination report of Latu Das.

Seizure list

Medical examination report of victim 'K'

FIR

Abstract certified copy of Nazira Model P.S. GD Entry
No.382, dated 13.01.2017.

Sketch map

Sketch map

) to 10 (ili) - Photographs of accused Latu Das

Seizure list
Charge-Sheet
One pair sports shoe

M.EXbt.2 - One pair of Hawai Chapple
M.EXbt.3 - One yellow underpant
M.EXbt.4 - 3 quarter half-pant

M.Exbt.5 -
M.Exbt,6 -
M.Exbt.7 -
M.Exbt.8 -

Green colour sleeks

Money Bag

Voter ID Card in the name of Latu Das
D/L in the name of Latu Das

Special | udge,

Spl (P) Case No. 2 of 2017 Page 26 of 26
