 

U/S — 366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

State
- Versus -
Bikram Bhuiya@ ke eaaeees Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

A nce an iculars :-

For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.

For the accused person :- Sri F.I. Barbhuiya, Ld. Advocate.

Date of recording evidence :- 02.07.2019.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC *- 05.07.2019.

Date of Argument :- 05.07.2019.

Date of Judgment :- 05.07.2019.
JUDGMENT

4. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 26.10.2018 the

informant Swapan Hazra lodged an ejahar with the O/C, Lala Police Station alleging
that on 25.10.2018 at about 5 AM his minor daughter i.e. the victim went missing
from his house and as such, he made vigorous search for her but could not find her
out but subsequently, he came to know that the accused person Bikram Bhuiya
kidnapped his daughter.
2. On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as Lala
Police Station case No. 524/2018 under Sec. 120(B)/366/417/294/506, IPC and
COT ii. ciiises P/2.
«20
during investigation, police visited the place of occurrence, recorded statements of
witnesses, got the victim medically examined and also got her statement recorded
under Sec. 164, CPC and after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet
against the accused person Bikram Bhuiya under Sec. 366(A) of the IPC.
3. On appearance of accused person Bikram Bhuiya, copies of
relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to him.

4. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence
Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record, having found sufficient
grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed the offence, the
formal charges have been framed against the accused person Bikram Bhuiya under
Sec. 366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. The charges so framed
were read over and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined the
informant and the victim of the case. Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public
Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence Counsel, the prosecution evidence was closed. The
accused person is examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has denied the
allegations levelled against him by the prosecution. The defence did not adduce any
evidence.

6. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused person on 25.10.2018 at about 5 AM
at Kaiya T.E. under Lala PS induced the victim, the daughter of the informant
Swapan Hazra, to go with him with intent that she may be or knowing that she will
be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby the accused committed the
offence punishable under Sec. 366(A), IPC ?

CONN! wicisacvs P/3.
ial (P 1
~3-

(ii) Whether the accused person after taking the victim
forcefully, committed penetrative sexual assault on her and the accused thereby
committed the offence punishable under Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :-

Re The PW. 1, the victim, has deposed that about 3/ 4 months
back, one day at about 5 AM, without informing her parents,she went to her
relative’s house at Katlicherra with the accused, who is her related brother and she
returned home at 8 PM and then, she came to know that her father, the informant,
lodged a case. Police got her medically examined and also got her statement
recorded by Magistrate vide Ext. 1, wherein Ext. 1(1) is her signature. It is further
deposed by the victim that she has got no allegation against the accused.

In cross examination, the victim has stated that she made her
statement before Magistrate on being tutored by her father.
8. The PW.2 the informant Swapan Hazra has deposed that
about 2/ 3 months back, one day in the morning, he did not find his daughter i.e.
the victim in the house and accordingly, he made search for his daughter but with
no effect and out of suspect, he lodged the FIR vide Ext. 2, against the accused
person but thereafter, at about 8 PM his daughter returned home.

In cross examination, the informant has stated that he has got
no allegation against the accused person.
9. In the instant case, the evidence of the victim is of much
importance in deciding the case. In her evidence she has made the fact clear that on
the relevant day in the early morning without informing her parents, she went to the
house of her relative with the accused, who is her related brother and she returned
home at 8 PM on that very day and then, she came to know that her father lodged a
case. In cross examination, the victim has revealed that she made statement before
the Magistrate on being tutored by her father, the informant. The PW. 2, the father
of the victim, keeping himself in the same footing as of the victim, has vividly stated

COMGE......2.004 P/4.
ial (P No.14/2

-4-
in his evidence that as he did not find his daughter in the house, he lodged the case
on suspect but subsequently at about 8 PM on that very day, his daughter i.e. the
victim returned his house. As such, when the victim herself as well as the informant
has not supported their own case, I do not find any cogent reason to hold the
accused person guilty for the commission of the offence, alleged.
10. Accordingly, it can be safely held that the prosecution failed to
prove its case against the accused person of the instant case.
41. The accused person Bikram Bhuiya is acquitted of the offence
charged under Sec.366(A) of IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. Set him at
liberty forthwith.

 

12. The bail bond of the accused stands discharged.
13. Send a copy of this judgment to the Ld. District Magistrate,
Hailakandi.

The judgment is delivered today, on this the 5" day of
July,2019.
Dictated and corrected by me :- HAPLARKAN®! :

 

Dictation is taken and transcribed by Baharul Islam Choudhury,
Stenographer Grade I.

CONG ccc P/5.
Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, the victim.

PW. 2, Swapan Hazra, the informant.
Documentary evidences :-

Nil.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

No.14

1 a
