Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE (POCSO), SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL. POCSO CASE NO. =

Present !-

Prosecutor !-

Accused !-

Date of framing charge -

Date of Recording Evidence -

Date of examination of accused u/s :-
313 of Cr.P.C.

Date of Argument =

Date of Judgment -

Counsel of the Prosecution -

Counsel for Accused :-

10 of 2019
(Under Section 9(m) of POCSO Act)

R. Baruah
Special Judge (POCSO)
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

State of Assam
-Vs-

Sri Suresh Bhumij

S/o Parsuram Bhumij

R/o Vill. Rampur Hatinga

PO & PS — Jamuguri

Dist.- Biswanath, Assam

Permanent Address: Borgang near
Railway Station, Line No. 1 Borgang T.E.
P.S. Behali

Dist- Biswanah, Assam

11-06-2019

24-07-19, 21-08-19, 30-09-19, 22-10-19
& 28-11-19

09-12-2019

09-12-2019

21-12-2019

S. Maitra, Ld. Special P.P. and A. Baruah
& J. Baruah,

Addl. Public Prosecutors,

Tezpur.

D. Sinha & R. Baruah, Ld. Advocates.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case above accused is put for trial for the allegation of charge
Under Section 9 (m) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (herein

after referred as ‘POCSO Act’).

Zz. The prosecution case in brief is that on 10.03.2019 informant Mira
Page |2

Rajput lodged an FIR before the In-Charge of Jamuguri Police Station stating that on
09.03.2019 at around 6:00 PM accused Suresh Bhumij took away her 7 years old
daughter “X” towards a field by alluring that he would buy notebook for her.
Thereafter the accused threw her into a drain used for water irrigation of the village
and assaulted her sexually. When she raised alarm by crying, accused tried to kill her
by strangulation. After a long time when she did not return to home, the informant
with some villagers went in search of the girl/victim and they found the girl weeping
inside a jungle adjacent to the drain of water irrigation. Eventually the accused got
caught red handed and with the co-operation of the young locals and villagers the

accused was handed over to the police.

3. On receipt of the FIR, the OC, Jamuguri PS registered the same as
Jamuguri P.S case no. 53/2019 under sections 342/352/307 of IPC, R/W Sec. 4 of

POCSO Act and endorsed the same for investigation.

4. Police after completion of investigation, submitted charge sheet
against the accused under section 342/352 and R/W Sec. 8 of POCSO Act.

5. The copies of relevant documents furnished to the accused. After
hearing the learned advocate for both the sides, charge Under Section 9 (m) of
POCSO Act framed against the accused. The above offense read over and explained

to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

6. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined as many as 8
(eight) nos. of witnesses. The prosecution witnesses namely 1. “X” (PW1) (victim)
(name not disclosed in the judgment), 2. Smti. Mira Rajput (PW2), 3. Mamu Deka @
Janmoni Deka (PW3), 4. Dr. Jerina Nazrin (PW4), 5. Sri Durlav Deka (PW5), 6. Miss
Anjana Rajput (PW6), 7. Smti. Aimoni Rajput (PW7) and 8. Sri Lakhi Kalita (PW8)
(I.0.). After hearing both the sides the evidences of the witnesses recorded

previously is also taken into consideration.

7. Accused is examined under section 313 Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of

total denial and defence has declined to adduce defence evidence.
Page |3

8. I have carefully gone through the record of the case and heard the
learned Counsel for both the sides.

The Ld. Spl. P.P. submitted that on the day of occurrence the accused
went missing with the victim in the evening and he was found with the victim at
night. The witnesses has corroborated to the above facts. Both the accused and the
father of victim used to take liquor. The victim was found crying. The victim has
stated that she was assaulted by the accused and also the accused insert finger
inside her vagina. The fact is also mentioned in the statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. The
victim also suffered injuries. The evidence of victim could not be shaken during cross
examination. The PW3 is the eye witness. The PW4 mentioned about the injury and
the age of victim.

On the other hand the Ld. Legal Aid Counsel for the accused
submitted that the magistrate who recorded the statement of the victim is not
examined by the prosecution. The facts made under 164 CrP.C. by the victim is
different from the statement made before the court. The PW3 said that he noticed
the accused and victim on the focus of light but the same not seized during
investigation. The victim put thumb impression in her evidence in the court but she
also said that she studies in class III. Though the PW3 mentioned that villagers
gathered, none examined by the prosecution. All the relatives of the victim are
examined who are interested witnesses. The doctor (PW4) has found no mark of
violence in the private parts of the victim. The doctor also mentioned that the
abrasions may be caused due to many reasons. The FIR so lodged by the informant
is hit by Sec. 162 of Cr.P.C. The PW3 said that as soon as chaos occurred police
arrived and took away the accused. The prosecution has not clarified as to how the
police arrived on the spot. The information to police not exhibited by the
prosecution. The accused did not get the scope to examine the magistrate who
recorded the statement of the victim. The stories seems to be concocted the cloths
of victim not recovered/seized by the police during investigation. The victim said that
she knows the accused properly but it is not clear why she did not mention the name
of accused. Hence it can be held that the accused was apprehended only on

suspicion.

9. The points for decision in this case are —
Page |4

(1) Whether the accused on 09.03.2019 at
about 6 PM at Rampur, Hatinga under
Jamuguri P.S. committed aggravated sexual
assault on "X", a 7 years old minor girl?

Discussion, Decisions and reasons for decision:

 

10. Before appreciating the evidence, I am of the opinion that the

evidence so adduced by the prosecution witnesses needs to be reflected.

11. In the present case PW1 is the victim. She in her examination in chief
state as follows:

“Suresh Bhumij has committed the act. During daytime Suresh Bhumij
came to our house and proposed to me to buy a copy. Suresh Bhumij used to work
together with my father. Thereafter, Suresh took me to the field in a drain, away
from my home. Suresh felled me into the drain after gagging my mouth. He also held
hard on my neck. Then Suresh opened my pant and threw it away. Thereafter Suresh
inserted his finger inside my vagina and also slapped me. People brought me back to
the house. It was dark at that time. Previously I gave statement in the court. Police

also took me to the doctor for examination. I suffered some injuries on my hand and
leg.”

The PW1 stated in her cross examination as follows:

“I have got one younger brother and one younger sister. I called my
father as ‘Ba’. Suresh regularly visit our house and consume liquor. On the day of
occurrence also Suresh consume liquor. He brought the liquor himself. The
neighbours were available in their houses. My mother and father knew that I went
out with Suresh to purchase copy. I cannot write my name. My teacher asks us to
draw flag. Teacher does not teach how to write my name. Our teacher used to write
on the black board and we copy from the same in our copy. After lunch Suresh slept
in the house. After he awoke, he took me to the drain, which is situated at a distance
from the house. On that day, for the first time Suresh did such thing on me. The
drain was dry. I received injury on my back due to the debris in the drain. Suresh
dragged me to the drain and my cloth torn. I received bleeding injury on my back
and other parts. Police and my parents noticed the injuries. I and Suresh were

returning to the house, then people found us and brought to home. I was taken to
Page |5

the police. Police noticed my torn clothe and injuries. On the same day I was taken
to the doctor. Suresh visit us regularly and hence I know his name. I mentioned to
the police and court that Suresh did me such thing. It is not a fact that I do not
know Suresh and do not know his name.

I stated the name of Suresh earlier in the court. It is not a fact that I
did not state the name of Suresh earlier. It is not a fact that I did not state before
the police and Magistrate that Suresh inserted finger into my vagina (the part of
body by which we urinate).

It is not a fact that I stated falsely that I was brought to the house by
the people.

It is not a fact that I have stated the facts today as taught by others.
It is not a fact that I stated facts to the police and the Magistrate as taught by

others.”

12. The PW2 is the informant. She stated in her examination in chief as
follows:

“I am the informant. I know the accused. His name is Suresh Bhumij. He
used to work with my husband. He often visits my house. My children used to
address him as ‘Khura’. The incident occurred about four months back. At the time of
occurrence my victim daughter was studying in class-III and her age was 7 years.
She is student of Rampur Hatinga Prathamik Vidyalaya. On the day of occurrence at
about 6.00PM my daughter/ victim was studying. I was cooking food. The accused
came and question my daughter what she is doing. My daughter told that she is
writing. At that time the she finished the pages of the copy. My daughter told that
she wants another copy. Then Suresh proposed my husband to buy a copy to my
daughter and took her away. I stopped her but she went away with the accused.
When my daughter did not return for about one hour, I went to the shop of Tirap
and enquired. Tirap told me that my daughter has not come. I was shocked and
returned to the home and informed everybody. We all started to search for my
daughter. We also informed the VDP. Police also arrived. At around 12.00AM (night)
Manu Deka noticed my daughter and the accused, near a drain. He informed the
people and recovered my daughter.

My daughter came crying and told me that the accused held her by

her neck, opened her pant and threw it, slapped her, inserted finger into her vagina,
Page |6

gagged her mouth when she tried to shout. My daughter told me that the accused
took her inside a drain. Police took away the accused after handing over by the
people. We also went to the police station. I lodged the FIR. Exhibit- 1 is the FIR and
Exhibit-1(1) is my signature. Police took my daughter to the doctor for treatment.”

The PW2 in her cross examination stated as follows:

“The accused do not visit my house regularly. He often visit my house.
On the day of occurrence, at daytime the accused came to my house with my
husband. Both took lunch and consumed liquor.

It is not a fact that I did not state to the police that the accused
proposed to buy copy to my daughter when she informed that she finished the
pages of her copy. It is not a fact that I did not state to the police that I stooped my
daughter from going to the shop. The name of the VDP Secretary is Bipul Das, but I
do not know his proper name. At the house of VDP Secretary, police found me and
my husband. I do not know who informed the police regarding missing of my
daughter. It is not a fact that I did not state to the police that my daughter came
crying and she told me that accused slapped her, inserted finger into her vagina and
gagged her mouth. Police also found my husband. I did not notice injuries on the
person of my daughter. One scribe in the police station wrote the FIR.

It is not a fact that I stated the facts as taught by others. It is not a
fact that the accused never took my daughter to purchase her copy, nor gagged her
mouth, opened her pant and threw the same. It is not a fact that my daughter never
reported me that the accused held her by her neck, opened her pant and threw it,
Slapped her, inserted finger into her vagina, gagged her mouth when she tried to
shout and accused took her inside a drain. The accused is a permanent resident of
Borgang. Accused reside in the house of his father —in-law, in my village. It is not a
fact the as the accused is not a resident of my village and hence as taught by others

I deposed falsely against him.”

13. PW3 stated in his examination in chief stated as follows:

“I know the informant, the accused and the victim. The incident
occurred about four months back. When we family members were taking dinner, at
around 8.30 PM, I heard chaos in the village. I came out and could come to know
that the daughter of Madan and accused went missing. The villages searched for the

girl and the accused. I went back to my home at around 10.30 PM in order to sleep.
Page |7

I was hearing the chaos while sleeping. At around 11.30PM to 12.00AM I came out
of the house to urinate after switching on the light. On the focus of the light I
noticed the accused and the daughter of Madan, on the road. I questioned the
accused why he went missing with the girl. At that time people gathered and took
the accused to the main road. In the meantime police arrived. The accused was
taken into custody by the police.”

The PW3 in his cross examination stated as follows:

“I noticed the accused and the girl standing near my house. I went
near and identify that they are the accused and the girl. It is not a fact that I did not
state to the police I saw two person on the focus of the light. It is not a fact that I
never saw the accused and the girl while coming out of the house to urinate. I do
not know who informed the police regarding the recovery of the victim and the girl. I

do not how the accused and the victim went out of the house.”

14. PW4 the MO stated in her examination in-chief as follows —

“On 10.03.2019 I was posted as M. & H.O.-1 at Kanaklata Civil Hospital,
Tezpur. I had examined the victim girl on 10.03.2019 at about 2:05 PM in the
examination room of the labour room complex of KCH, Tezpur in the presence of
GNM Anamika Kalita vide hospital registration no. 6636/19. She was escorted and
indentified by WPC/396 Sumitra Dutta. Consent was taken prior to examination from
her aunty.

Name and address of the victim: Miss ‘X”, 7 Years, Female, religion Hindu,
D/O Sri Madan Rajput, Vill. Rampur Hatinga, P.S. Jamuguri, Dist. Sonitpur
(Biswanath), ID mark- Scar over right side of face.

Menstrual History: She has not attained menarche yet.

On examination- Well Dressed, neat & tidy, gait normal average build, Height-
111 cm, Weight- 18 kg, Teeth- 5/5/6/6.

At the time of examination, her secondary sexual characters have not yet
developed. Axillary and pubic hair absent. Breast not developed. Vulva and vagina-
Normal. No external injury seen in genital region.

On examination- 2 X 1 cm’ abrasion over left side of neck. Vaginal smear
taken and sent for pathological examination.

Investigations advised and report:
1. Vaginal smear for spermatozoa not seen (KCH lab no.- 11/19 dt- 10.03.19)
Page |8

2. X- ray for age determination- Age of the person under investigation
appears to be below 10 years.

(done in Assam X-ray Clinic & Laboratory, Pt ID: AXC- 1986 dt. 11.03.19,
report given by Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist)

Opinion-

1. There were no signs and symptoms of recent sexual intercourse.

2. No mark of violence seen in her private parts

3. Her actual age at the time of examination appears to be below 10 years.

Ext. 2 is the Medical report and Ext. 2 (1) and 2 (2) are my signatures.”

During cross-examination, the MO said that the abrasion mentioned by her

may be caused for various reason.

15. PW5 in examination in chief stated as follows:

“I know the informant and the accused. On 09-03-2019 at night I
was sleeping in my house. My son at night came out of the house to attend nature’s
call, and then he noticed Suresh Bhumij near the house. My son held Suresh Bhumij
and a chaos took place. Then the villagers and police arrived and took away Suresh
Bhumij. Later on I came to know that since evening the daughter of Madan Rajput
was missing and in connection with the same, the accused was apprehended. The
daughter of Madan Rajput was also with the accused.”

In cross examination the PW5 stated as follows:

“I only know that villagers took away the accused from the spot.”

16. PW6 in examination in chief stated as follows:

“I know the informant. She is my aunt. Victim is daughter of
informant. I forgot the day of occurrence. On the next day of incident, victim told me
that accused took her from the house in order to purchase a copy.”

In cross examination PW6 stated as follows:

“My sister/victim only told me that she was taken by the accused for
the purpose of purchasing copy, but, she did not mentioned about any misbehave by

accused towards her.”

17. PW7 in examination in chief stated as follows:

“I know the informant. She is my sister-in-law. Victim is my niece. I
Page |9

know the accused. On the day of occurrence after coming from work at around 5.00
PM I came to know that “X”/victim is missing. At night Mamu Deka apprehended the
accused with the victim and informed the villagers. Police came and took away the
victim. When I enquired from victim, she told that her pant thrown away by the
accused, her mouth was gagged by the accused and accused inserted finger on her
private part. The victim also told me that accused threatened her by hold her by her
neck.”

PW7 in cross examination stated as follows:

“It is not a fact that I did not state before police that “When J
enquired from victim, she told that her pant thrown away by the accused, her mouth
was gagged by the accused and accused inserted finger on her private part. The
victim also told me that accused threatened her by holding her neck’:

My house is away from the house of informant. It is not a fact that victim never
narrated the fact to me as I mentioned today in the court nor I questioned the victim
regarding the incident. It is not a fact that today for the sake of my niece deposed

falsely in the Court.”

18. PW8 is the I.O. of the case. He stated in his examination in chief as
follows:

“On 10.03.2019 I was posted as I/C of Itakhola Police Out Post. On
that day during morning hour the Addl. SP over phone informed me that there is no
officer at Jamuguri P.S. and as a case is registered under POCSO Act, he directed me
to proceed and conduct the investigation of the case. Accordingly I reached Jamuguri
P.S. I found the accused Suresh Bhumij in the police station and the victim “X”, both
sited separately inside the police station. The age of the victim reported as 7 years.
The O/C endorsed the Jamuguri P.S. Case No. 53/2019 to me for investigation.
Accordingly I started the investigation of the case. The informant Meera Rajput i.e.
the mother of victim was also available in the police station. I recorded her
statement. I also recorded the statement of victim in presence of lady police. I also
recorded the statement of the accused. As it was Sunday and the police papers are
taken up in the court at 2:00 PM, I visited the place of occurrence. I searched for the
pant of the victim in presence of witnesses. I recorded the statements of nearby
witnesses. As informed by the witness Mamu Deka that he noticed the accused and

the victim coming out from a nearby nala located near his house, I drew the sketch
Page |10

map of the place as place of occurrence. Ext. 3 is the sketch map and Ext. 3 (1) is
my signature. Thereafter I returned to the Police Station. I forwarded the accused to
the court after arrest and send the victim to the hospital for material examination I
also forwarded the victim to the court with a prayer to record her statement u/s 164
of Cr.P.C. As per order of court I handed over the victim to her guardian. During
investigation I collected the Medical Report of victim. After completion of
investigation I submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 342/352 of IPC &
R/W Sec. 8 of POCSO Act. Ext. 4 is the charge sheet and Ext. 4 (1) is my signature.
Ext. 5 is the statement of victim recorded u/s 164 of Cr.P.C. Ext. 1 is the FIR and Ext.
1 (1) is the endorsement with signature of the O/C of Jamuguri P.S.”

In cross examination the PW8 stated as follows:

“Itakhola Police Out Post is about 6-7 Km. away from Jamuguri P.S.
On 10.03.2019 at 6:30 AM I received the telephonic message form Addl. SP namely
Sri Jayanta Sarathi Borah. I reached Jamuguri P.S. at 8:00 PM. I found both the
victim and the accused sitting in same room separately. I was in Uniform when I
recorded the statement of victim girl. Woman police was in civil dress. Her name is
Sumitra. I have not put question to the victim prior to recording statement regarding
the place where she would feel comfortable while giving statement. We reached
Tezpur Court at around 3.00 PM after examination of victim in the Civil Hopsital. We
brought both the victim and accused to Tezpur from Jamuguri in the same vehicle.
The victim was a school going girl and she could write her name. I could not recover
the panty of the victim during search. I did not seize the wearing apparels of victim
as well as the accused.

The victim(PW1) did not state before me that “Suresh inserted finger
into my vagina (the part of body by which we urinate)’, but, she said that hand put
on her vagina.

The PW2 did not state before me that “the accused proposed to buy
copy to my daughter when she informed that she finished the pages of her copy,
that she stooped her daughter from going to the shop.”

The PW3 did not state before me that “I saw two persons on the
focus of the light”.

PW7 did not state before me that “When I enquired from victim, she
told that her pant thrown away by the accused, her mouth was gagged by the

accused and accused inserted finger on her private part. The victim also told me that
Page |11

accused threatened her by holding her neck’, but, she said that on questioning by
villagers, the victim gave statement.

It is not a fact that I have conducted the investigation of the case as
required under the provision of POCSO Act. It is not a fact that without finding any
materials against the accused I submitted charge sheet against him under the above

Sections. It is not a fact that accused is completely innocent.”

19. Section 9 (m) of POCSO Act provide as follows, “whoever commits
penetrative sexual assault on a child below 12 years”.

Penetrative sexual assault is defined u/s 3 of POCSO Act.

20. From the evidence on record it is noticed that in the evening of
09.03.2019 the victim went missing from the house. In the FIR it is mentioned that
accused took away the victim in order to purchase her a notebook. The PW1 is the
victim and she has corroborated to the fact that accused came to her house and
proposed to buy a notebook to her. The PW1 in her cross examination said that the
accused used to come to her house regularly and used to consume liquor. PW1 said
that her parents were aware that she came out with the accused in the evening to
purchase a copy from the shop. Since the accused is a regular visitor of the
informant hence the going out of victim with the accused initially was not a factor to
be suspected by the parents of the victim. The PW1 has clearly mentioned that when
she and the accused were returning home after she was subjected to assault by the
accused, people found them and brought them to the house. The PW1 is a child of
about 7 years. The doctor has also confirmed that the age of PW1 is below 10 years.
It should not be expected from the PW1 to describe as to who amongst the people

located them first and thereafter brought to the house.

21. The PW3 is not a relative of the victim or the informant. The PW3 is a
co-villager of informant. The PW3 prior to going to bed had the information that the
victim and the accused went missing. It is at around 11:30 PM to 12 AM night in the
focus of light he noticed the accused and the victim on the road. Immediately people
gathered and took away the accused to the main road. The PW5 has corroborated to
the fact that at night his son noticed the accused and thereafter a chaos took place

and villagers and police took away the accused. The PW3 has not tried to develop or
Page |12

embellish the facts. The PW1 in cross examination said that when she and the
accused were returning the people found them. It cannot be deduced from the
evidence on record that it was not the PW3 who found the victim and the accused at
first. It is a fact that the victim is found with the accused at night. Seizure of the
light on whose focus the PW3 notice the victim and accused is irrelevant for the

investigation of the matter.

22. The Ld. Advocate for the accused argued that there is vast
discrepancies between statements of the victim under section 164 of Cr.P.C and given
during trial. It is argued that the victim did not utter the name of the accused during
investigation.

The PW1 (victim) is a child of less than 10 years. The PW1 said before
the Magistrate that a person took her towards the field. She did not mention that the
person is not known to her. The PW1 has identified the accused at the trial.
Moreover, there is no necessity on the part of the victim to narrate when she was
taken out of the house, because her parents are aware that she went out with the
accused in order to purchase a notebook. The PW1 has mentioned the facts, which
bears the elements to traumatize her in ordinary sense of the term. It should be
noted that on the very next day of occurrence the victim gave statement before the
Magistrate. Further, the prosecution has exhibited the statement of the victim made
under section 164 of CrP.C as Exhibit-5. Considering the above, it cannot be said
that the defense case is prejudiced for not examining the Ld. Magistrate, who

recorded the statement of victim during trial.

23% The PW1 said that accused inserted finger inside her vagina and
Slapped her and prior to that the accused threw her pant. The PW1 also said that the
gagged her mouth and held her by the neck hard. The PW2 said that her daughter
confide to her all the facts. Naturally, a small child will confide to her mother
regarding any strange and unwanted incident took place with her. It should not be
expected that the PW6, who is a 12 years should try to elicit from a younger child

what is misbehavior.

24. The victim stated that the accused put his hand over her vagina and

held her neck hard. During trial the victim said that accused inserted finger into her
Page |13

vagina. The PW4 (doctor) said as follows: “At the time of examination, her secondary
sexual characters have not yet developed. Axillary and Pubic hair absent. Breast not
developed. Vulva and vagina normal. No external injury seen in genital region.” The
accused took away the victim with a plea to buy her a notebook and thereafter
without going to the shop took the victim to a isolated place. There he undressed the
victim and touched the genital region of the victim. Further no explanation came
from the defence that there existed other mental state of the accused while keeping
the victim with him for so long. The activity of accused is squarely false under the
definition of sexual assault under section 7 of POCSO Act. The victim is less than 12
years of age hence, the accused has committed the offence under section 9 (m) of
POCSO Act.

25. Section 10 of the POCSO Act provides the punishment for commission
of offence of aggravated sexual assault. The accused is convicted under section 10 of
POCSO Act.

26. The offence is committed against a child. The accused is not

considered under section 360 of Cr.P.C. and under Probation of Offender Act.

27. Heard the accused on the point of sentence under the provision of
Section 235(2) of CrPC.

28. The accused is sentence to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a
period of 5(five) years and pay a fine of Rs. 3,000/- (Rupees Three Thousand). In
default of payment of fine accused shall undergo further rigorous imprisonment for

two months.

29. The period of detention undergone by the accused, if any, be set off

from the period of imprisonment.

30. It is seen that no recommendation is made in the record for giving
compensation to the victim. Hence, it is hereby recommended to give appropriate

compensation to the victim by the District Legal Service Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Page |14

31. Free copy of judgment be furnished to the convict.

32. Another copy of judgment be sent to the learned District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur as per provision of Section 365 of CrPC and to the Learned

Secretary, District Legal Service Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 21% day of
December, 2019.

(R Baruah)
Special Judge
Sonitpur,Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.
(R Baruah)

Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur
Page |15

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:
1.PW1 — Miss “X"(Victim),

2.PW2 — Smti. Mira Rajput,

3.PW3 — Mamu Deka @ Janmoni Deka,
4.PW4 — Dr. Jerina Nazrin,

5.PW5 — Sri Bir Singh Orang,

6.PW6 — Miss Anjana Rajput,

7.PW7 — Smti. Aimoni Rajput &

8.PW8 — Sri Lakhi Kalita (IO).

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

1. Nil.
Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

Ext. 1 : Ejahar,

Ext. 2 : Medical report,
Ext. 3 : Sketch map &
Ext. 4: Charge sheet.

ew he Pp

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

1. Nil.

(R Baruah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur,Tezpur.
