HEADING OF JUDGEMENT IN SPECIAL CASES:
DISTRICT: DHUBRI.

ay IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: DHUBRI.

SPECIAL CASE NO: 2016
UNDER SECTIONS: 354-D/294/506 IPC
READ WITH SECTION 12 OF THE POCSO ACT.

STATE OF ASSAM
VS.
RAJU RAY

PRESENT:- DIPAK THAKURIA, B.A., LL.M., AJS
SPECIAL JUDGE,
DHUBRI.

APPEARANCES:-
B. R. BASUMATARI, SPECIAL P. P. FOR THE STATE.
M. C. NATH, ADV. FOR THE DEFENCE.

 

DATE(S) OF EVIDENCE:- 03-02-2017, 15-03-2017,
25-04-2017, 27-06-2017,
12-06-2018, 06-08-2018.

DATE OF ARGUMENT:- 29-09-2018.

DATE OF JUDGMENT :- 10-10-2018.

JUDGEMENT

1. Accused Raju Ray stands trial for the offences punishable under sections 354-D/294/506
IPC read with section 12 of the POCSO Act.

2. The facts of the case, as revealed from the ejahar, in brief, are as follows:- that on 03-

09-2016 at about 3.30 p.m. the 14 year old daughter of the complainant was going to

* aA ad x ao® ]

a?
geo
her tuition dass at Dekdeki (Dhepdhepi) Girls’ High School. On the road the accused
indecently behaved her. The accused, thereafter, entered into the class room, compelled
other students to go out of the class room and by using slang language rebuked her
daughter and indecently touched her body. While her daughter raised alarm, the
accused left the place threatening her to kill.

see
3. On the same day the complainant lodged a written ejahar at Golokganj police station

where a case as Golokganj P. S. Case No. 876/2016 under section 12 of the POCSO Act
was registered.

4. The investigating officer arrested the accused, produced him before the Court and the
Court remanded him to judicial custody, recorded the statements of witnesses under
section 161 Cr. P. C. By completing the investigation, I. O. has submitted charge sheet
against the accused person to prosecute him under sections 354-D/294/506 IPC read
with section 12 of POCSO Act.

5. During investigation the accused was released on bail.

6. Cognizance of the case was taken in charge sheeted sections. Copies were furnished to
co=sy__ the accused and after hearing both the parties and perusal the case record and case

\\diary formal charges against the accused under sections 354-D/294/506 IPC read with
\e\ ection 12 of POCSO Act were framed. Charges so framed were read over and explained

Ae spd

 

—f
>

> Ne Je ipo the accused which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
=< 7. The prosecution examined fourteen witnesses including investigating officer and closed

the evidence.

8. After completion of the prosecution evidence, the statement of the accused was
recorded u/s 313 Cr. P. C. by putting questions to him from all incriminating evidence
appearing against him on record and thereby giving him an opportunity to meet the
Same. In response to which, the accused denied the allegations as well as evidence on
record and also declined to adduce evidence in defence .

9. Heard learned counsels appearing for the parties and perused the evidence on record.

‘A
Ae
7e yes

AD). Vc
ee SO

CQ ys
 

Whether the accused on 03-09-2016 at about 3.30 P.M. on road near Dhepdhepi
Girls’ High School under Golokganj police station follows the minor daughter of the
complainant to her classroom to foster personal interaction repeatedly despite a clear
indication Of disinterest by the git! and thereby accused js able to be punished
under section 354-D IPC?

Whether the accused on the same day time and place uttered obscene words to the
Minor daughter of the complainant in the public Place and thereby accused is liable
to be punished under section 294 IPC?

Whether the accused on the same day time and place criminally intimidated to the
minor daughter of the complainant to kill her and thereby accused is liable to be
punished under section 506 IPC?

Whether the accused on the same day time and place sexually harassed to the minor
daughter of the complainant and thereby accused is liable to be punished under
section 12 of the POCSO Act?

\g | DISCUSSIONS ON THE POINTS FOR DETERMINATION AND THE DECISION

ARRIVED THEREON WITH REASON:
aa UTE REUN WITH REASON:

10.In order to establish the charges framed against the accused, the prosecution has
examined fourteen witnesses. Among them P. W. 1 is the complainant and the mother of
the victim girl. P. W. 6 is the victim girl, P. W. 4 is the brother of the victim girl, P. W. 5
is the aunt of the victim girl, P. W. 11 is the cousin brother of the victim girl, P. W. 2
Prankrishna Ray, P. W. 3 Prakritish Ch. Ray, P. W. 7 Chandana Barman, P. W. 8
Karishma Ray, P. W. 10 Ramendra Nath Ray are independent witnesses. P. W, 9
Chandana Ray, P. W. 12 Uttam kr. Ray and P. W. 13 Pradip Kr. Ray are the relatives of
the accused and P. W. 14 Rustam Raj Brahma is the investigating officer.

11.The prosecution has exhibited the Ejahar as Ext. 1, two seizure lists as Ext. 2 and Ext. 3,
sketch map of place of occurrence as Ext. 4 and charge sheet as Ext. 5.

ns

why
ie.
€\ rN
eee tN
Pre |

AR
ae

4 a! ae

\

-
12.The defence examined none. Plea of the defence is total denial of the case.

13.Learned Special Public Prosecutor B. Basumatary has submitted that the Prosecution

examined all together 14 witnesses to establish the charges framed against the accused.
The main witness for the prosecution is the minor girl who is just 14 year old. She has
depicted éntire story and her deposition has been corroborated by other independent
witnesses. There is nothing to disbelieve the Prosecution witnesses. The prosecution is
able to establish the charges against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. So, has
prayed to hold the accused guilty under framed charges and impose adequate
punishment to him.

14. On the other hand learned counsel appearing for the defence M. C. Nath has submitted

that the accused being young boy just expressed his affair towards the alleged victim.
His intention was not to disturb the victim girl. Though the prosecution claims that all
the prosecution witnesses have supported the case of the Prosecution; but some of the
important independent witnesses have not supported the case of the prosecution. The
evidences led by the prosecution are not sufficient to constitute the charges framed
against the accused. The Prosecution has failed to establish the charges against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubts. So, the accused deserves benefit of doubt.
Hence, has prayed to acquit the accused.

15.Before we proceed, let us reproduce the material parts of the witnesses examined by the

prosecution during trial.

15.1 P. W. 1 is the complainant and the mother of the victim girl. Her deposition

/ \ shows that on 03-09-2016 at about 3.30 p.m. her daughter was proceeding
‘\ towards Dhepdhepi Girls’ School for attending tutorial classes. On the road

“i the accused abused her by uttering obscene words and followed her to the
Y school. The accused entered into the class room of her daughter and blocked

the door. Thereafter the accused pushed her daughter and threatened her
not to disclose the same to them. A classmate of her daughter informed the
matter to her eldest son about the incident by mobile phone. She and her
elder son visited the school and brought her daughter back. On the same day
she lodged ejahar which has been exhibited and marked as Ext. 1 and
authenticated her signature thereon which is marked as Ext. 1 (1). In cross-
examination she has deposed that one Prankrishna Ray informed about the
uc incident to her eldest son. Her daughter told her that the accused abused her

Pes 4
S52

15.3

Ss
ar

and followed her to her school and assaulted her inside the class room. She
has denied the suggestion of the defence that she did not disclose before
police that the accused abused her daughter, her daughter told her that
accused blocked the door of her class room, pushed her down and
sthreatened not to disclose the matter to them, that Prankrishna informed her
eldest son about the incident.

Prankrishna Ray, P. W. 2, who was on the spot at the time of incident has
deposed that on 03-09-2016 at about 3.30 p.m. he went to Dhepdhepi Girls’
School for attending tutorial classes. As the teacher was not present; so he
was sitting in the field of the school and saw both the accused and the victim
arrived at the school. The victim was crying and while he asked what had
happened then the accused told him that nothing had happened. Both of
them entered into the room. The accused asked the victim as to why she
afraid of him and consoled her not to cry. In cross-examination he has
deposed that the accused and victim were talking. He has denied the
suggestion of the defence that he did not disclose before investigating officer
that victim was crying and accused was consoling her.

P. W. 3 Prakritish Ch. Ray is the head teacher of Dhepdhepi Girls’ School. He
has deposed that on 03-09-2016 at about 3.30 p.m. he went to his school to
conduct tutorial classes. The victim told him that the accused abused her by
uttering obscene words while she was coming to the school and also
threatened her to kill by knocking her down by motorcycle if she disclosed the
incident to anyone. The victim further told him that the accused followed her
up to class room and pushed her to down and threatened her to face
consequence if she disclosed the incident to anyone. When he reached the
school the accused left the school premise and after some time the accused
came back and went away. As per his direction Prankrishna Ray informed the
matter to her family members. In cross-examination he has deposed that
when he reached the school 15 students were present. After hearing about
the incident from the victim girl he asked about the same to Prankrishna who
told him the same thing. He has denied the suggestion of the defence that he
did not tell the investigating officer that after some time the accused came
back and went away and he did not ask Prankrishna to inform about the
incident to the family members of the victim. The other students also told him
about the same incident.
15.4 P. W. 4 is the elder brother of the victim. He has deposed that on 03-09-2016
at about 3.30 p.m. one Dhananjay Ray informed him over mobile phone
about the incident that a youth torturing his sister by uttering obscene words.
He went to Dhepdhepi school and brought his sister back to his home.

15.5 *P.W. 5 is the relative of the victim girl. She has deposed that on 03-09-2016
at about 3.30 p.m. she was going to Dhepdhepi school with the victim to
attend tutorial classes. In the meantime the accused came towards them and
asked her to leave alone the victim as he had to discuss some matters with
the victim. Then she left the company of the victim. After some time she
arrived at the school and noticed that the accused and the victim had already
arrived at the school. There also, the accused asked her to leave the class
room and then she left the class room. In cross-examination she has deposed
that the accused is the related brother of the victim. She does not know what
had happened between them.

15.6 P. W. 6 is the alleged victim. Her evidence shows that on 03-09-2016 at
about 3.25 p.m. she was going to Dhepdhepi Girls’ High School to attend
tutorial class and then the accused followed her and started to abuse her by
uttering obscene words and also indecently touched her. On reaching
Dhepdhepi Market she tried to enter into the market and then the accused
threatened her. The accused asked her whether she loved him or not and her

 

tt eee reply was in negative and then the accused threatened her to kill her and her
Va 3 SPES family members. Thereafter she went to her school and the accused followed
rae her. In the class room the accused started to pull her wearing clothes and
\ AN es > isi pushed her to down to the floor. Seeing the incident other students came to
ery rescue her; but the accused threatened them with dire consequences at
— which they fled away. In the meantime one student Prankrishna Ray arrived
at and the accused threatened him too. Thereafter the head teacher of the
school Prakritish Ray arrived at the school and seeing him the accused fled
away. She told the incident to the head teacher. Thereafter her brother came
to the school and took her away from the school. In cross-examination she
has deposed that Dhepdhepi Girls’ High School is situated at a distance of
two kilometers from her house. At the time of incident Bobita Ray, Ratna Ray
and Prankrishna Ray were also present. The road from her house to the
school is a busy road. Motor vehicles and pedestrians usually used the said

ne road. The accused followed her from her house and abused her till she
28

\ OO

ee 6

ce sos
15.7
15.8

 

15.9

reached the school. Many people of her village saw that the accused was
following her. She did not tell any person on the road about the incident. The
road from her house to the school Passes through Dhepdhepi market. At the
time of the incident only two shops were open. There is a Mosque and at that
time Only two persons were present there. The accused told her that he will
drag her away and would marry her and her parents would not be able to do
anything. The accused is a resident of their village. She has denied the
suggestion of the defence that she did not disclose before the investigating
officer that the accused inside the class room pulled her wearing clothes and
pushed her down on the floor and when she tried to enter Dhepdhepi market
the accused threatened to kill her and her family members. She has denied
the suggestion of the defence that the accused went to her school for his
personal reason and seeing her he simply talked to her.

P. W. 7 Chandana Barman knows nothing about the incident.

P. W. 8 Karishma Ray is the classmate of the victim girl. She has deposed
that on 03-09-2016 at about 3.30 p.m. she saw that the accused holding the
hands of the victim Proposing her to marry him. Then she tried to bring the
victim out, but the accused prevented her. The victim started crying, but the
accused did not release her. In the meantime teacher Prakritish Ch. Ray
arrived at and asked what had happened. The accused abused him and the
teacher informed the matter to the family of the victim. The accused
threatened her not to disclose the same to anybody. In cross-examination
she has deposed that at the time of incident Chandana Barman, Chandana
Ray, Rukmini Ray, Prankrishna, Khanjan were present in the school. When
she entered into the class room she saw that the accused was holding the
hands of the victim. She has denied the suggestion of the defence that she
did not disclose before the investigating officer that she did not try to bring
the victim out and then accused threatened her too.

P. W. 9 Chandana Ray is the related sister of the accused. She has deposed
that at the time of the incident when she reached the school to attend the
tutorial class, the accused and the victim were inside the class room and
other students were standing outside. On being asked the students outside
the class room told her that accused threatened them. In the meantime
teacher Prakritish Ray arrived and the accused abused their teacher using
obscene words and also threatened them to kill if they told the incident at the

7
 

home. Thereafter the accused left the place. In cross-examination she has
deposed that Ranjana, Chandana, Rukmini, -Merina, Prankrishna, Jayanta,
Gautam were also present in the school. She has denied the suggestion of
the defence that she did not disclose before the investigating officer that at

‘the time of the incident when she reached the school to attend the tutorial

Class, the accused and the victim were inside the class room and other
students were standing outside. On being asked the students outside the
class room told her that accused threatened them. In the meantime teacher
Prakritish Ray arrived and the accused abused their teacher using obscene
words and also threatened them to kill if they told the incident at the home.

15.10 P. W. 10 Ramendra Nath Ray, P. W. 12 Uttam Kr. Ray and P. W. 13 Pradip

Kr. Ray are seizure witnesses. P. W. 10 has deposed that he visited police
station and in his presence police seized birth certificate of the victim girl vide
Ext. 2 seizure list. Ext. 2 (1) is his signature as seizure witness. In cross-
examination he has deposed that he knows nothing about the incident. P. W.
12 and P. W. 13 have deposed that police of Golokganj police station seized a
bike vide Ext. 3 seizure list. Ext. 3 (1) and Ext. 3 (2) are their signatures
respectively in the seizure list.

15.11 P. W. 11 is another cousin brother of the victim girl. He has deposed that on

the day of the incident he saw that the accused was following the victim girl
while she was going to her tutorial class and did not allow the victim to enter
into any shop at Dhepdhepi market. Later on he came to know that the
accused proposed his affairs to the victim and also heard that in the class
room the accused pushed down her. Police took his signature in Ext. 2. Ext. 2
(2) is his signature. In cross-examination he has deposed that there are 200
shops at Dhepdhepi market. Police did not come to the market. He does not
know what is written in Ext. 2. He had a quarrel with the mother of the
accused over borrowing of some money.

15.12 P. W. 14 Rustam Raj Brahma is the investigating officer. He has deposed that

at

ie

on 03-09-2016, he was working at Golokganj P.S. as Officer-in-charge. On
that day, the complainant lodged a written ejahar with an allegation that on
that day at about 3:30 pm the accused rebuked her 14 year old daughter by
using slang words and touched her body. He registered the ejahar and took
up the investigation. Next day he visited the place of occurrence, recorded
the statements of witnesses, prepared the sketch map of place of occurrence,

8
seized birth certificate of the victim and a motorcycle and on 19-09-2016
arrested the accused and produced him before the Court. By completing the
investigation he has submitted charge sheet against the accused under
sections 354-D/294/506 IPC and section 12 of POCSO Act. He has exhibited
“the seizure lists Ext. 2 and 3 and his signature thereon as Ext. 2 (3) and 3
(3), Sketch map of place of occurrence as Ext. 4. Ext-4(1) is his signature.
Ext-5 is the charge sheet and ext-5 (1) is his signature. In cross-examination
he has deposed that the complainant told him that the accused scolded her
daughter with filthy words; but she did not disclose him that her daughter
told her that the accused blocked the door of the classroom, pushed her
down, not to disclose the matter to her. Witness Prankrishna Ray did not
disclose before him that the victim was crying and the accused was consoling
her. Witness Prakritish Ch. Ray did not disclose before him that the accused
came back and went away. The victim did not disclose before him that the
accused pulled her wearing dress and pushed her in the room. Witness

Karishma Ray did not disclose before him that when their teacher Prakritish

a Ray arrived and questioned the accused what was he doing, the accused

abused him uttering obscene word, at which he went to the office room and
= NY informed the house of the victim and she did not try to prevent the accused
4 je i from harassing the victim and the accused threatened her to face dire
= consequences. Witness Chandana Ray did not disclose before him that when
she reached the school then accused and the victim were inside the room
and other students were outside of the room and when she asked them
about the matter they told her that the accused threatened them. He
prepared the sketch map on spot. At the time of incident the accused was a
student of B. Sc. 1* year.

16.On perusal the evidence on case record it appears that P. W. 1, the mother of the
alleged victim lodged the ejahar before O. C. Golokganj police station on the day of the
incident i.e. 03-09-2016 and on the basis of the ejahar a case as Golokganj P. S. case
No. 876/2016 under section 12 of POCSO Act was registered. On perusal the contents of
the ejahar (Ext. 1) it appears that on the day of alleged incident the alleged victim was
just 14 year old and was going to Dhepdhepi Girls’ High School to attend her tutorial
Classes. On the way to the school the accused indecently behaved her and followed her

up to school and there also misbehaved her and threatened her too. In a case registered
under the provisions of POCSO Act the age of the victim girl is very much important. In
the ejahar the complainant who is the mother of the victim girl mentioned that at that
time her daughter was just 14 year old. The investigating officer seized the birth
certificate of the victim girl vide Ext. 2. The date of birth of the victim girl was 22-04-
2002. Arithimetical calculation shows that at the time of the incident the alleged victim

 

was 14 year 4 months 11 days old. The defence does not challenge the age of the victim
girl. So, it is clear that on the day of the alleged incident the victim was a child as
defined section 2 (d) of POCSO Act.

("
j 1
|

17.Though initially the case was registered under section 12 of the POCSO Act; but at the
time of filing charge sheet the investigating officer found materials against the accused
and submitted charge sheet against him to prosecute not only under section 12 of the
| POCSO Act but also under sections 354-D/294/506 IPC.

18.Section 354-D IPC deals with the offence of stalking. Stalking is a form of harassment
comprising of repeated persistent following with no legitimate reason and with the
intention of harming, or so as to arouse anxiety or fear of harm in the person being
followed. The definition of the offence of Stalking has the following ingredients: -
1. If aman
(i) follows a woman and contacts or attempts to contact such woman,
(ii) monitors the use by a woman of the internet, e-mail, or any other form of
electronic communication,

 

oe (iii) or watches or spies on a person.
SY HES” 2. to foster personal interaction repeatedly

3. despite a clear indication of disinterest by such woman.

19.From the evidence on case record it appears that on 03-09-2016 at about 3.30 p.m. the
victim girl who was just 14 year old was going to attend her tutorial classes to a school
which was about 2 k.ms. away from her house. P. W. 5 was also with the victim girl; but
the accused compelled her (P. W. 5) to leave the company of the victim. As no one with
the victim on the road; so, the deposition of the victim is very much important to
appreciate what had happened on the road. The victim girl (P. W. 6) has deposed that
the accused on the road started to abuse her by uttering obscene words and also
indecently touched her. Being irritated she intended to enter Dhepdchepi market; but the
accused did not allow her to enter the market. The accused expressed his feeling that he

a4 oe
ter 10
, oo : 4 oY

Co
3)
 

   

loved her and threatened her that if she does not love him he would kill her and her
family members. From the evidence of the victim it appears that the accused went with
her up to her school and inside the classroom he disturbed her. In the school there
present some students whom the Prosecution examined. From the evidence of
Prankrishna Ray it appears that he saw that the victim was with the accused and she
was Crying. P. W. 5 who was with the victim on the road whom the accused compelled
to leave the victim on the road once again deposed that in the school the accused told
her to leave the class room. P. W. 9 Chandana Ray has also deposed that in the class
room the accused did not allow other Students to enter inside the class room. The
evidence of head teacher Prakritish Ch. Ray (P. W. 3) is also important. He saw the
accused in the classroom. The victim girl told him that the accused abused her on the
Way to the school, threatened her and in the Classroom the accused pushed her to the
ground. The victim girl has also deposed that she immediately informed the matter to
the head teacher. The defence while cross-examined the victim girl put a suggestion that
due to personal reason the accused visited the school and seeing her simply talked to
her which the victim girl denied. From the Suggestion of the defence it transpires that
the defence has admitted that at the time of the incident the accused was in the school
and he talked to the victim girl. But the defence has failed to show as to why he visited
the school. Though he suggested that due to his personal reasons he visited the school:
\but the same has not been established. From the evidence on record it transpires that
=the accused expressed his feelings towards the victim girl that he loved her. At the same
: time the accused compelled her to love him. The accused threatened the victim girl that
if she does not love him he would kill not only her but also to her family members. The
evidence on record shows that the victim girl was not interested to the accused and in
clear words she told him that she does not love him. When despite a clear indication of
disinterest by the victim of the Proposal of love the accused followed her up to her
school, attempted to compel her to accept his proposal and in that course he
misbehaved the other students present in the school; so, without any hesitation it can
be concluded that the accused committed the offence of stalking as defined under
section 354-D IPC.

20.Another charge against the accused is that on the day of the incident the accused
annoyed the victim girl by uttering the obscene words in the public place. The evidence
on record shows that the alleged incident took place on the public road and at
Dhepdhepi Girls’ High School. Undoubtedly both the places are public place. As per

} a” e 7 11
 

told the victim that he loved her and that €xpression cannot be termed as obscene

ae \ expression. Though the prosecution is able to establish that the incident took place in

% » \ public place; but failed to establish that the accused annoyed the victim girl by uttering
so obscene words. The victim girl may be annoyed with the behavior of the accused; but
/

poi ee - her annoyance was not uttering obscene words by the accused. So, it is held that the

Prosecution has failed to establish the charge against the accused under section 294
IPC,

21. Another charge against the accused is that on the day of the incident he Criminally
intimidated the victim girl. The victim girl (P. W. 6) in her deposition has stated that the
accused on her way to the school met her and told her that he loved her. In reply the
victim girl told him that she does not love him and then the accused threatened her to
kill and her family members. The accused, as per the victim, not only threatened her on
the road, but he came to her school and inside the Classroom disturbed her. The victim
girl immediately informed the matter to her teacher Prakritish Ch, Ray who has also
deposed that the victim girl told him that the accused threatened her. The victim girl told
the incident to her mother (P. W. 1) who on the Same day lodged the ejahar and
deposed that her daughter told her that the accused threatened her to kill. The other

: witnesses, particularly the friends of the victim have also deposed that the accused not
only threatened the victim but also to them and compelled them to stay outside of the

i ace 12
if classroom. Section 503 IPC defines criminal intimidation. The offence of criminal
intimidation requires either a person or another in whom he or she is specially interested
to be threatened. To bring home the offence of criminal intimidation the prosecution has
to establish that the accused threatened the victim with any injury to her person,
reputation orsproperty or to any other person to whom she is interested. In the case in
hand, from the evidence of the victim girl it transpires that the accused threatened not
only to kill her but also to kill her family members in the event of refusal his love
proposal. The victim girl at the time of the incident was a minor girl just 14 year old and
at the same time the accused was a student of B. Sc. 1* year. The accused was very
much matured at the time of the incident. On the other hand the victim being a girl of
just 14 year was immature enough. The accused on the road met her, compelled her
friends to leave her company and annoyed her placing his proposal of love to her. The
victim became so irritated that she intended to enter into Dhepdhepi market just to
avoid the irritation of the accused; but the accused did not allow her to enter into
Dhepdhepi market. He went with her up to school which is situated in a far distance. In
the school the accused not only threatened to the victim; but also threatened the other
students present in the school premise. The intention of the accused to threaten the
ee a victim to compel her to accept his proposal of love. As the victim expressly refused to
(x i ey \love him; so, the accused by threatening her and her family members tried to get her
oi \: “consent. The act of the accused showed his intention. The evidences on record are
; ces or js sufficient to hold the accused guilty that he on the day of the incident criminally
Se ier ee : - intimidated the victim as defined under section 503 IPC and as such he is found guilty
eat under section 506 IPC.

 

22.As stated earlier initially the case was registered under section 12 of the POCSO Act and
the investigating officer after investigation submitted charge sheet against the accused
to prosecute him under section 12 of the POCSO Act with other provisions of the Indian
Penal Code.

23.Section 12 of the POCSO Act provides punishment for sexual harassment to a child.
Section 11 of the POCSO Act defines sexual harassment. It provides that a person is said
to commit sexual harassment upon a child when such person with sexual intent utters
any word or makes any sound or exhibits his body, shows any object etc to a child.

24.In the case in hand it is established that the victim at the time of the incident was a child
as defined in section 2 (d) of the POCSO Act. It is also established that the accused

9 alos :

~
ert 34
os MM
annoyed the victim girl on the road while she was going to school to attend her tutorial
Class and in the classroom. But it is not established that the accused annoyed the victim
girl by uttering obscene words etc. The main ingredient to establish the offence
punishable under section 12 of the POCSO Act is that the harassment must be with
sexual intention. The alleged incident took place on the road and the classroom. The
victim girl has deposed that when she entered into the Classroom the accused pulled her

dress and threw to her on the grounds. She denied the suggestion of the defence that
she did not disclose before the investigating officer that the accused pulled her dress.
The investigating officer in his cross-examination has confirmed that the victim girl did
not disclose before him that the accused pulled her school dress and threw her to the
ground. At the time of the incident other students were outside of the school; but they
have not deposed that the accused pulled the dress the victim girl. So far allegation of
the victim against the accused of pulling her school dress is concerned it is established
that she did not disclose the same before the investigating officer while he recorded her
statement under section 161 Cr. P. C. So, it is clear that the victim girl for the first time
implicated the accused saying that he pulled her dress inside the class room. Though the
Peg victim girl has deposed that the accused touched her body on the road; but the
> = e \ \ witnesses particularly P. W. 5 who was with the victim on the way to the school and P.
; : ai > W. 11, cousin brother of the victim who saw the accused and the victim on the road
\ é . /» have stated nothing that the accused touched the body of the victim. The accused
© poet | . expressed his feelings towards the victim and on refusal his proposal of love by the
fi victim he was irritated and threatened the victim girl. But his act though it was illegal
was not with intent to harass her sexually as defined under section 11 of the POCSO Act.

25.In view of the above discussion and observation it is concluded that the prosecution is
able to establish the requirements of the penal provisions under sections 354-D/506 IPC.
Hence, it is held that the prosecution is able to establish the charge against the accused
under sections 354-D/506 IPC beyond all reasonable doubt and accordingly the accused
is held guilty under said sections and he is convicted accordingly.

26.But the prosecution has failed to establish the charge against the accused framed
against him under section 294 IPC and section 12 of the POCSO Act beyond all
reasonable doubt and hence giving the benefit of doubt the accused is acquitted of
under section 294 IPC and section 12 of the POCSO Act.

27.The accused/convict is the neighbor of the victim. His indecent act towards a girl of 14

FB 14
year in presence of her classmates and teacher annoyed her and put her on mental
shock and embarrassment. It is the high time to protect the children from such person.

Considering the nature of the case and its mode of execution I find no justifiable ground

 

to extend the benefit of Probation of Offenders Act to the accused/convict.

28.Heard accused/convict on quantum of sentence. Also heard learned counsels appearing

for the parties.

29.Accused/convict has stated that this was his first offence. He has prayed to excuse him

as it was his first offence and he will not repeat such type of offence in future.

30.Learned counsel for the prosecution has submitted that the accused/convict should be
given adequate punishment so that it becomes an example for the wrongdoer. On the
other hand learned counsel for the defence has submitted that the accused is a young
boy and a student. The prosecution has failed to show any criminal antecedent of the
accused; so, has prayed to deal with him leniently considering his young age.

31.Prescribed punishment under section 354-D IPC is imprisonment of either description for

a

fir AES mee oN term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine for the first
DOS ors. \

oe % oe 2 \< \. Conviction. Prescribed punishment under section 506 IPC (part I) is imprisonment of
3 ‘ G=i2 L either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.
2! )32.The accused/convict is a young boy just 21 years old and it was his first conviction.

Considering his age it is decided to impose following punishment.

ORDER

 

 

33.The prosecution is able to establish the charges against the accused Raju Ray under
section 354-D/506 IPC beyond all reasonable doubts and accordingly he is convicted

under said sections.

34.The accused/convict is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 2 (two) years
and also pay fine of Rs. 5,000/ (rupees five thousand) in default rigorous imprisonment
for 1 (one) month under section 354-D IPC.

35. The accused/convict is further sentenced to go rigorous imprisonment for 1 (one) year
and also pay fine of Rs. 2,000/ (rupees two thousand) in default rigorous imprisonment
for 15 (fifteen) days under section 506 IPC.

2 alae tS

cS ¢

 
 

36.Fine amount, if realized, shall be given to the victim as compensation.
37.The period underwent during investigation and trial shall be set off as per law.

38.The accused js acquitted of the charges framed against him under section 294 IPC and
section 12 of the POCSO Act on benefit of doubt as the prosecution has failed to
establish the same beyond all reasonable doubts.

39.Return the seized articles to the person/persons from whom it were seized after expiry
of appeal period.

40.Furnish a free copy of the judgment and order to the accused/convict as per provision of
law.

41.Furnish another copy of judgment and order to the District Magistrate, Dhubri for

™“

<= S6<\. information and necessary action, if any, from his side.

Victim compensation.

42.The victim girl who was a student and just 14 year old at the time of incident faced such

= a situation which cannot be explained and I am of the view that the victim girl is entitled
to get compensation under section 357-A Cr. P. C. So, District Legal Services Authority,
Dhubri is asked to determine appropriate amount of compensation to the victim girl as
per victim compensation scheme and pay the same as early as possible.

43.The bench assistant is directed to provide the name of the victim girl, her parents’ name
and address to the Secretary DLSA, Dhubri in a sealed envelope so that DLSA, Dhubri
can communicate with the victim or her legal guardian.

44.Send a copy of this order to the Secretary DLSA, Dhubri for information and necessary
action.

45.Given under my hand and seal of this Court this the 10" day of October 2018
= Go... =’ —
12
(D. Thakurig). 2” |
Spethal udge, Dhubri
 

 

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: DHUBRI.

SPECIAL CASE NO: 30/2016
UNDER SECTIONS: 354-D/294/506 IPC READ WITH SECTIOM 12 OF THE

POCSO ACT.
STATE OF ASSAM
VS.
RAJU RAY
APPENDIX

“oy

 

A. Prosecution exhibits:

Ext. 1 : Ejahar.
Ext. 2&3 : Seizure lists.
Ext. 4 : Sketch map of place of occurrence.
Ext: 5 : Charge sheet.
B. Defence Exhibits : Nil.
C. Court Exhibits: Nil.

D. Prosecution Witnesses:
P.W. 1: Complainant,
_ P.W.2:  Prankrishna Ray,
_P.W.3:  Prakritish Ch. Ray,
. W.4: Brother of the victim,
.W.5: Aunt of the victim,
.W.6: Victim,
. W.7: Chandana Barman,
.W.8: Karishma Ray,
. W.9: Chandana Ray,
. W.10: Ramendra Nath Ray,
. W.11 : Cousin brother of the victim,
. W.12 : Uttam Kr. Ray,
. W.13 : Pradip Kr. Ray &
. W.14 : Rustam Raj Brahma.
E. Defence Witness: Nil. rae dd
F. Court Witness : Nil. (D. Thakuria )

,Age
Spestatvddge, Dhubri.
prev

ED ON os; ie na

ERO Pye en) Re ee

17
