IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::::::: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.20/2016

State of Assam
Versus

Shah Alom ....... Accused

Present: Smti Mitali Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State : Mr M.Kr. Ghosh

Ld. advocate for the accused : Mr A.S.Talukdar

Evidence recorded on: 30.10.2018
Argument heardon =: 02.11.2018
Judgment delivered on: 02.11.2018

JUDGEMENT

1. The prosecution story in brief is that on 30.7.2016 the informant
Md Anowar Hussain lodged the first information report before the Officer-in-
charge of Fakiragram P.S. with the allegation that his minor daughter
Manjaura Begum was kidnapped by the accused on 28.7.2016 at about 8 P.M.
and confined her in some unknown place. Hence, the first information report.

Z On receipt of the first information report in Fakiragram P.S., a
case has been registered under Fakiragram Police Station case No.43/2016

under sections 120(B)/ 366(A) IPC and the case was endorsed to the ASI Isha
Special Case No.20/16

2

Hoque for investigation. During investigation the I.O. visited to the place of
occurrence and recorded the statement of the witnesses, recovered the victim
girl, medically examined her and after ascertaining the minor age of the
victim, the charge sheet has been filed by the I.O. under section 366(A) IPC,
R.W. section 4 POCSO Act against the accused Shah Alom. Relevant copies
also furnished to the accused and my learned predecessor framed the charge
under section 366(A), R.W. section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused
person finding a prima-facie case. The charges were read over and explained
to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
Ba The prosecution side examined as many as 02 (two) witnesses
including the victim and the informant as follows:-

PW 1 Md Anowar Hussain and

PW 2 Musstt Monjuara Begum.
4. The defence took the plea of total denial and he has not adduced
any evidence in support of his case. Recording the statement of the accused
person under section 313 Cr.P.C. was dispensed with as there was no
incriminating material against the accused person in the testimonies of PWs.
5. Points for determination:

(1) Whether the accused person abducted or seduced the victim

Manjuwara Begum by inducing for the purpose of having sexual

intercourse ?

(2) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on

the minor victim ?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

 

6. I have thoroughly perused the evidence of prosecution witnesses,
assessed them to arrive at a just decision and hearing argument from both

sides the case is decided as follows:-
Special Case No.20/16

3

7. The first information report of the instant case was lodged by
PW1 with the allegation that his minor daughter was kidnapped by the
accused on 28.7.2016 and confined her in some unknown place. But, while
deposing before the court he stated that when his daughter (PW2) did not
return home after attending tuition, they searched for her in every possible
place but, she could not be traced out and at the same time it has also come to
the notice that the accused Shah Alom is not available in his house. So, on
suspicion and mis-understanding and as per advice of the village people he
filed the first information report. But, on the next day his daughter returned
back and came to know that she visited to the house of her aunt without
informing her parents.

8. PW2, the victim of this case also narrated the same story and as
per her also she visited to the house of her aunt after attending her tuition
without information to her parents for which her father lodged the first
information report on suspicion. But, on the next day when she returned home
she reported the entire incident to her father. She specifically deposed that
neither the accused abducted her nor committed rape on her. She left her house
at her own will and hence she has no grievance against the accused person.

9. So from the testimonies of both PW1 and PW2 most vital
witnesses of the prosecution case, it is seen that the case was lodged against
the accused only due to mis-understanding and on suspicion with the advice of
the village people. PWs neither brought allegation of rape or abduct against
the accused nor there is any allegation of rape or sexual harassment etc.
against the accused person. Suspicion and mis-understanding arose only when
the victim left her house without information to her parents. More so, the

prosecution failed to bring any evidence regarding minor age of the victim.
Special Case No.20/16

4
10. Thus, it is seen that the prosecution could not bring home the
charge under section 366A IPC and under section 4 of POCSO Act against the
accused person beyond all shadow of doubt and hence giving the benefit of
doubt I hereby acquit the accused and set him at liberty forthwith.

The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the court on this 02nd November/2018 at Kokrajhar court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
