Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE (POCSO), SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL. POCSO CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s :

313 of CrP.C.
Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel of the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

06 of 2019

(Under Section 366 A of IPC, R/W Sec. 4 of

POCSO Act)

R. Baruah
Special Judge (POCSO)
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
State of Assam
-Vs-
Md. Safiqul Islam,
S/o Late Samsuddin
R/o Vill. Satai Sapori
PO & PS — Tezpur
Dist- Sonitpur, Assam
16-05-2019
24-04-2018 & 13.06.2019

09-07-2019

09-07-2019
09-07-2019

A. Baruah & J. Baruah,
Addl. Public Prosecutors,

Tezpur.

B. Borthakur, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case above accused is put for trial for the allegation of
charge Under Section 366 A of IPC, R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act.
2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 27.06.2019 informant Abdul

Jabbar lodged FIR before the In-Charge Borghat Police Out Post stating that on
26.06.2017 his eldest son-in-law Safigul Islam at around 3:30 PM took away his

third daughter “X” (The name of the victim is not mentioned in the judgment for

confidentiality) for a stroll. Thereafter there is no news about them but it is come
Page |2

to the knowledge that Safiqul took away the girl after luring her. Age of the girl is
16 and 12 years.

3. On receipt of the FIR, the I/C Borghat Police O.P. made a GD Entry,
forwarded the FIR to the Tezpur P.S. and he started investigation. OC, Tezpur PS
registered the same as Tezpur P.S case no. 12/2017 under sections 366 A of IPC
and endorsed the same for investigation.

4. Police after completion of investigation, submitted charge sheet
against the accused under section 366 A of IPC and laid the same before the
learned CJM, Sonitpur, Tezpur for trial. Accordingly, the learned CJM, Sonitpur,
Tezpur transferred the case to the Court of learned Addl. CJM, Tezpur for trial.
Since the offence is triable by the court of Sessions, the same was committed to
the Court of Sessions after furnishing the relevant copies under the provisions of
Cr.P.C. During trial it has come to the notice that offence is to be tried by the
Special Court as the offence appears to be under POCSO Act. Accordingly the
case is transferred to this court.

5. On appearance of the accused and after hearing the learned
advocate for both the sides, charge Under Section 366 A of IPC, R/W Sec. 4 of
POCSO Act framed against the accused. The above offenses read over and
explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
6. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined as many as 2
(two) nos. of witnesses. The prosecution witnesses namely 1. Md. Abdul Jabbar
(PW2) and 2. “X” (PW3) (victim). After hearing both the sides the evidences of
the witnesses recorded previously is also taken into consideration.

7. Accused is examined under section 313 Cr.P.C. The defence plea is
of total denial and defence has declined to adduce defence evidence.

8. I have carefully gone through the record of the case and heard the
learned Counsel for both the sides.

9. The points for decision in this case are —

(1) Whether the accused on 26.06.2017 at
around 3:30 PM at No. 1 Satai Sapori
under Tezpur P.S. induced "X", a minor girl
of 17 years to go from the village or to do
any act with intent that the said "X” may
be or knowing it is likely that the said "X”
Page |3

may forced to or seduced to illicit
intercourse with the accused?

(2) Whether on the same date, time and place
the accused committed penetrative sexual
assault to "X” aged about 17 years minor
girl?

Discussion, Decisions and reasons for decision:

10. Before appreciating the evidence, I am of the opinion that the
evidence so adduced by the prosecution witnesses needs to be reflected.

11. PW2 is the informant. He said that his daughter “X” fled with his
son-in-law. On that day he could not find his daughter “X” and his elder daughter
informed that “X” fled with the accused and hence he lodged the FIR. His elder
daughter’s residence is about 1-1% kilometer from his house. The age of his
daughter was 16-161 years.

During cross the PW2 said that accused is his son-in-law (husband
of his niece). During Eid his daughter (victim) went missing and at that time he
was not in the house. The villagers asked him to lodge FIR against the accused
but he do not know what is written in the FIR. He has got four children. The
victim is his second child and her age will be about 20 years. He do not know the
exact age of his daughter. He put the age of his daughter in the FIR on guess.
Later on he came to know that victim went for a ride with the accused. He has
got no objection if the accused is acquitted.

12. PW3 is the victim. She in her examination in chief said that the
incident occurred on the occasion of Eid. She had gone to a nearby shop and
then accused asked her to go with him for a ride on his bike but she refused. On
insistence by accused that he will return, she went with the accused. Accused
took her to Balipara to the house of Halima. They stayed in the house of Halima
and there the accused raped her. The accused threatened her with dire
consequences if the matter is disclosed at home. In the mean time her sister
(wife of accused) repeatedly asked accused to return and on the next day
evening they return to his house and from there police recovered her and took
her to the police station. On the next day she was produced before the court for

recording her statement. PW3 exhibited the statement u/s 164 of CrP.C. as
Page |4

Exhibit 2.

In cross examination the PW3 said that accused is her brother-in-

law (husband of cousin sister). Incident took place about 2 years back during Eid
she went with accused in his bike for a ride to the house of Halima at Balipara.
They stayed in the house of Halima after taking meal and they were allowed to
sleep separately. On the next day they returned from Balipara and then villagers
apprehended both and took them to police station. She came to know that her
father had lodged FIR with the police apprehending that she has been
kidnapped. PW3 said that she on her own will went with the accused for a ride.
Villagers asked her to give statement as taught by them and accordingly she
gave statement before police, magistrate and court. No physical relation took
place between her and the accused. She did not state before police that they
stayed in the house of Halima nor stated that incident took place in the house of
Halima. She never stated her age to be 17 years.
13. In the present case the PW3 (victim) is the material witness. The
informant (PW2) has only lodged the FIR. The PW2 stated that he is not aware
what happened to the PW3. PW2 only lodged the FIR informing the missing of
his daughter. In the FIR the PW2 mentioned that his daughter was lured by the
accused and taken away but the PW3 stated in cross examination that she on her
own went with the accused. The PW3 mentioned that during day time on her
way to a shop she was asked by the accused to come with him for a ride. Riding
a motor cycle during day time and going to another place in the motor cycle
without any objection cannot be termed as kidnapping.

The PW3 though in examination in chief said that the accused has
raped her, in cross examination she made a u-turn and stated that no physical
relation took place between her and the accused. Moreover the PW3 mentioned
that her age is 20 years (on 13.06.2019). No documents regarding the age of
victim is exhibited. Considering the statement of victim, on the day of occurrence
her age at the time of occurrence was 18 years.

14. In view of the above, it is held that the prosecution failed to prove
the charge against the accused Under Section 366 A of IPC, R/W Sec. 4 of
POCSO Act. The accused is acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.

15. The bail bonds shall remain in force for six months from today.
Page |5

16. Free copy of judgment be furnished to the accused.
17. Copy of judgment be forwarded to Ld. District Magistrate, Sonitpur
in terms with the provisions of law.
Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 9" day of
July, 2019.
(R. Baruah)

Special Judge (POCSO)
Sonitpur, Tezpur

Dictated and corrected by me.

(R. Baruah)
Special Judge (POCSO)
Sonitpur, Tezpur

Dictation taken by me:

Sri Jitumoni Boro, Computer Typist.
