IN THE COURT OF THE ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 42 of 2017
(Arising out of Barpeta Road P.S. Case No.179 of 2017

U/S 366(A)/376 IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act.
PRESENT : Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi

Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:z- 21.07.2017

State of Assam

-Vs-
Safikul Islam.............. Accused.
Date of Recording Evidence on — 28.02.2018,18.04.2018 & 20.06.2018
Date of Hearing Argument on — 04.04.2019

Date of Delivering the Judgment on- 25.04.2019

Appearance :

Advocate for the State------------------ Mrs. P. Das, Ld. Addl. P.P.
Advocate for the Accused-------------- Mr. M. Rahman, Ld. Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution, in nutshell, is that on 01.05.2017 one Bahadur Ali lodged an

FIR in Barpeta Road police station alleging inter alia that on 29.04.2017 at about 6:30 P.M. his 14
years old daughter namely-(X) while going to her maternal uncle's house at Kalahbhanga in
E.Rikshwa, accused named in the FIR allegedly called her in a mobile phone bearing
No.8721925225 and then took her to a place at Raju Path Barpeta Road in his bike in the name of
giving her lift into the house of her maternal uncle and then committed rape on her repeatedly in a
room and left her on the road on 30.04.2017 at 8 A.M. Being disgusted with the conduct of

accused, his daughter tried to commit suicide but she was somehow brought to his house. Hence
the case.

2. Following the information, Barpeta Road police registered a case being Barpeta Road P.S.
Case No.179/17 u/s 366-A/323/34 IPC and Section 4 of POSCO Act.

3. Acting on the information, police visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of
the witnesses, drew sketch map, sent the victim for medical examination as well as her examination
before Magistrate U/S 164 Cr.P.C. On completion of investigation, police collected the medical
report and having found a primafacie case finally laid the charge sheet against accused Safikul
Islam u/s 366-A IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 with a view to stand trial.

4. In due course, when accused entered his appearance in court after due compliance of
section 207 Cr.P.C. the then learned Special Judge, Barpeta vide order dated 21.08.2017 framed
charges u/s 366-A/376 IPC and Section 4 of POSCO Act, 2012. The particulars of the offences on
being read over and explained accused person pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

5. During the course of trial, prosecution examined as many as 6 witnesses namely-doctor
Anima Boro as PW-1, Saiful Islam as PW-2, Bahadur Ali as PW-3, the informant, the victim (X) as
PW-4, Nureda Khatun as PW-5 and Pabitra Bhuyan as PW-6, the I/O respectively.

6. Concluding prosecution evidence accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Accused has
however, denied the evidence of the prosecution as false and misleading. On being asked,
accused declined to adduce defence evidence. His plea is total denial of the prosecution case.

7. Now points for determination _;-

1. Whether on 29.04.2017 at 6:20 P.M. accused kidnapped the minor daughter of the
informant with intent that she might be compelled to marry or knowing it to be likely
that she will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with criminal intimidation as
alleged ?

2. Whether on the same day and time accused committed rape on the victim as
alleged ?

3. Whether on the same day accused committed penetrating sexual offence against the

victim girl as alleged?
8. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-

| have heard the learned lawyers appearing for both sides.
9. The learned counsel Smti. Priti Das appearing for the State vehemently contended that the
evidence of the victim girl (PW-4) is found credible supported by the evidence of other prosecution
witnesses in material particular. Therefore, according to the learned Addl. P.P. it is a fit case to
sustain conviction of accused person.
10. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the accused highly disputed the
submission of the learned Addl. P.P. and contended that in this case prosecution miserably failed to
prove the age of the alleged victim girl. In the absence of any credible evidence regarding her age,
the credential of PW-1 is under serious cloud of doubt. The evidence of other prosecution
witnesses are also not found credible and trustworthy. Their evidence do not corroborate the
evidence of the alleged victim. Moreover, the defence counsel further contended that it was a case
of love affairs between the victim and accused and the victim girl went with accused on her own
sweet will and she also consented to physical relation with the accused. She never resisted the
accused in the alleged physical relationship and made no attempts to flee from the custody/
influence of accused, even though accused has been taking her to different places after the alleged
kidnapping. The learned counsel therefore, vehemently contended that it is not a fit case to sustain
conviction. Rather, there is strong suspicion about the very commission of the offence on victim by
accused person. As such, the learned counsel prays for acquittal of the accused person.
11. Having heard the rival contention of the learned counsel, this court carefully examined the
evidence of all the prosecution witnesses for arriving at a just decision in the case.
12. Contrary to allegations made by the victim in her evidence the medical officer who
examined her on 02.05.2017 deposed that on examination of her genital organ she found no
spermatozoa in the vaginal swab of the victim even after microscopic examination. She also found
that the hymen of the girl tear and vagina admits two fingers. She also deposed that on laboratory
and physical examination her age was found above 14 and below 16 years.
13. The evidence of PW-2 Saiful Islam carries not much weight as he is not an eye witness to

the alleged occurrence. He heard it from others that Safikul Islam took his daughter when he did
not found his niece in the house.

14. In his cross examination he stated that accused Safikul Islam took the victim girl by
dropping her from E. Rikshwa, and the members of women organization took Rs.500/- from Safikul.
Then Jesmina told him that accused had physical relation with her. So, it appears that PW-2 is not
an eye witness but his evidence is hearsay one.

15. PW-3 Bahadur Ali, who is the informant deposed that on the next day of the incident he
heard that victim was recovered from somewhere else. After she was taken by Safikul in his bike.
He further deposed that at the time of incident she was reading in Class IX and her age was 16
years.

16. PW-4 the victim (X) deposed that about one year back while she was proceeding to the
house of her maternal aunt near Rajanikanta Higher Secondary School, the incident occurred at
about 5 P.M. According to her, accused came and took her to a place namely Raju Path and then
took her to the house of one of his friend where he indulge physical relation with her. On the next
day he left her in front of the house of her grand mother.

17. In her cross examination she deposed that she voluntarily went with accused when he
called her in a mobile phone and accused took her to the house of one of his friend where she
stayed with him overnight. She further deposed that she seated on the bike of accused and went
with him without any resistance or hue and cry. She also stated that when there is physical relation
with accused she did not resist or object. when she was recovered, her parents also did not ask
any question to her.

18. PW-5 Nureda Khatun deposed that on the day of incident she was in the residence and
the victim girl went to the house of her grand mother. On the next day she was recovered by the
members of Mahila Samity from Barpeta Road Railway Station.

19. PW-6 Pabitra Bhuyan is the I/O, who deposed that based on the information a case was
registered and investigated and on completion of investigation charge sheet was laid against
accused Safikul Islam u/s 366-A/376 IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act.

20. The above is the prosecution evidence available on record, now, on appreciation of the

prosecution evidence one thing is crystal clear that the prosecution miserably failed to prove the
age of the victim girl at the relevant time by producing her birth certificate. The I/O in his evidence
clearly deposed that he did not collect the school birth certificate or school certificate of the victim
girl. He also did not visit the house of the grant mother of the victim as well as the house of the
victim for investigation. Therefore, it appears that prosecution could not establish the actual age of
the victim girl at the relevant time by way of proving the birth certificate. On the other hand, the
doctor who examined the victim girl deposed that on examination she did not find any foreign
particles or spermatozoa on vaginal swab. Hymen was found tear and vagina admit two fingers. X-
Ray investigation doctor found her age above 14 years and below 16 years. From the medical
evidence it cannot be inferred that at the relevant time the age of the girl was below 18 years
because medical examination report regarding the age is not the correct determination of age. So,
in this count, serious doubt exist regarding the actual age of the victim girl.

21. The other reveling fact that have emerged in the mouth of the alleged victim girl is that she
had an affairs with the accused and she voluntarily went with the accused in his bike and made no
attempt to flee from the clutches of the accused person. She nowhere alleged that accused
forcefully taken her with intent to seduce her with any person including himself. The physical
relation that has taken place between them is also with the free will of the victim. There was no
such force or physical relation was against the will of the girl. As such, the prosecution evidence
available on record is insufficient to hold the accused guilty u/s 366-A/376 IPC or for that matter
Section 4 of POCSO Act. In the absence of any credible evidence regarding her minority and for in
the alleged sexual relation against her will or force no offence u/s 376 IPC or Section 4 of POCSO
Act said to have been established. Though accused can be convicted based on the uncorroborated
evidence of the prosecutrix and her testimony should not be rejected on the basis of minor
discrepancies and contradiction and also absence of injuries on the private part of the victim will not
by itself falsify the case of rape nor can be construed as evidence of consent nor the opinion of a
doctor that there was no evidence of any sexual intercourse or rape sufficient to disbelieve the
victim. What is most pertinent is that under such circumstance the court should bear in mind that
false charge of rape are not uncommon and there are some rare circumstances where the parents

persuaded the daughter to make false charge of rape either to make revenge or extort money or to
get rid of financial liability.

22. In the instant case, admittedly the doctor found no recent sign of sexual intercourse and no
injury mark on her private part. As it transpires in the evidence of the victim that on the day of
alleged incident while she was proceeding to the house of her maternal aunt in E. Rikshwa she had
talk with accused over phone and on the way he took her to the house of one of his friend where
they stayed overnight and had their physical relation. On the next day he left her nearby the house
of her maternal aunt. Having got this information his father and brother Saiful along with other
persons took her to the police station and then took her to the residence. On the next day her father
filed the case.

23. In her cross examination she categorically stated that she used to move with accused
earlier and on the day at the request of accused she voluntarily went with him to the house of one
of his friend. She went with him in his bike and never raised any objection and when accused had
physical relation with her she never objected. Though she has no intention to marry him but she
had her intention to have sex with him.

24. Therefore, on examination of the evidence of the alleged victim it is crystal clear that so-
called relation of the victim with the accused was completely with free consent. Since as discussed
earlier the age of the alleged victim at the relevant time is not legally proved, it is difficult to hold
only on surmises that she was minor at the relevant time. As candidly admitted by the I/O he did not
seize any school certificate or birth certificate of the victim girl during the course of investigation.
Therefore, the age of the girl remained under the cloud of doubt. Under such a situation, it is totally
unsafe to hold the accused guilty u/s 366(S)/376 IPC or for that matter u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

25. In view of the foregoing discussion and reason, this court has no option but to acquit the
accused from the charges u/s 366(A)/376 IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act on the ground of benefit
of doubt and set him at liberty forthwith.

26. The terms of bail bond of accused person is extended for a period of 6 (six) months from
to-day as provided U/S 437(A) Cr.P.C.

27. Let a copy of the judgment be sent to the learned District Magistrate, Barpeta for his

information as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.
28. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 25th day of April 2019, at Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me

Sd/-
Sd/- (Sri C.B. Gogoi)
(Sri C.B. Gogoi) Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special Judge, Barpeta.
APPENDIX

1. The prosecution has examined the following 6 nos. of witnesses :-

PW-1 = is Dr. Anima Boro, the M/O.
PW-2 = is Saiful Islam.

PW-3 = is Bahadur Ali, the informant.
PW-4 = is victim (X).

PW-5 = is Nureda Khatun.

PW-6 = is Pabitra Bhuyan, the I/O.

2. The prosecution has exhibited following document :-

Ext.1 = is the FIR.
Ext. 1(1) = is the signatures informant.
Ext.2 = is 164 Cr.P.C. statement of victim (X).
Ext.2(1) & 2(2)= are the signature of victim (X).
Ext.3 = is the seizure list.
Ext.3(1)= is the signature of I/O.
Ext.4= is the zimma nama.
Ext.4(1)= is the signature of I/O.
Ext.5= is the charge sheet.
Ext.5(1)= is the signature of I/O.
Sd/-

(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
