J

Page 1 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 02/2015

IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FIC, BISWANATH CHARIALT
i ee eT EE Nt AINE
SONTTPUR, ASSAM

Spl POCSO Case No. 02/2017
u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

 

State of Assam
-VS-
Md. Mopdul Hussain

ee Accused person

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Special Judge,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Advocates Appeared:-
For the prosecution: Ms. J. Kalita, learned Addl. P.P

For the defence : Mr. T. Baruah, learned Advocate.

Dates of recording Evidence: 14.08.2018, 23.05.2019.
Date of Argument : 30.07.2019.
Date of Judgment > 30.07.2019.

JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 18.02.2015 the informant namely, Md. Noor Islam
lodged an FIR with the OC, Biswanath Chariali PS stating inter alia that on 13.02.2015 at
about 12 PM, the accused taking advantage of absence of other inmates in his house,

committed rape on his minor daughter, whose age was 8 years at that relevant time. It was

alleged that his another daughter Sen Bhanu had witnessed the accused going out of his
aN ws house. Later, when Sen Bhanu came inside their house, she found the victim senseless,
avs =" According to him, the victim was a dumb person.
or s . 2. Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After
» . | investigation, the police submitted charge sheet against the accused person u/s 376(2) (1)
‘eo IPC r/w Section 4/5(g) of POCSO Act, 2012.

3. The accused in due course appeared before this court to face trial. The copies of the
relevant documents were furnished to him. After hearing both the sides on the point of
charge, taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173 CrPC, as this court found grounds
for presuming that the accused had committed an offence u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012,
 

Page 2 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 02/2015

the charge was accordingly framed against him, which on being read over and explained,
the accused pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial, the prosecution examined three witnesses in all. The victim could not be
examined as it was reported by the expert interpreter vide petition No. 1349/19 that the
victim failed to communicate with her about the alleged incident. On the other hand,
according to her, the victim stated to her by gestures that no such incident as alleged had
taken place with her. Taking note of the same and the evidence as adduced by other
witnesses, the prosecution evidence was closed upon submission of the learned Addl PP.
As no incriminating evidence was found against the accused, his examination u/s 313 CrPC
was dispensed with. The case was thereafter argued by both the sides.

Points for determination

 

Whether the accused person on the day of the alleged occurrence committed

penetrative sexual assault on the said victim, who is below the age of 18 years?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
5. PW 1 is the informant Md. Noor Islam. He stated that about 2-3 years back, after

returning from his work he found his wife absent in his house. His daughter, who could
not speak, was present in the house alone. She was about 7-8 years old at that relevant
time. The aunt of the victim Jabida Khatoon (PW 3) told him that she could notice the
accused going out from his house. When he asked his daughter, she could not properly
say anything. He contradicted the FIR and stated that Sen Bhanu was not present in the
house at that relevant time and she did not tell him anything about the incident. He
after hearing from PW 3 and out of suspicion lodged the 'Ejahar' which he proved that
as Ext. Ls

6. PW 3 on the other hand stated that on the day of the said occurrence, she saw the
accused coming out from the house of the informant. She stated that her father had
lodged an FIR against the accused out of suspicion. In her cross-examination, she
stated that she did not witness anything of the accused misbehaving the victim in any
manner.

. 7. Thus from the evidence of PW 1 and PW 3, we find that the Ext. 1 was lodged against
the accused out of suspicion. PW 2 Musstt. Samila Khatoon stated that she is the
mother of the alleged victim and the accused is her maternal uncle's son. She could
learn about the incident from PW 3 and out of suspicion, the FIR was lodged by her
husband.

8. Thus from the evidence of all the three witnesses as examined by the prosecution, we
do not find any material against the accused on the offence charged against him. The
Page 3 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 02/2015

prosecution has failed to proved its case. As such I acquit the accused from the offence
charged against him and set him at liberty forthwith. His bail bond stands discharged.
The provision u/s 437-A CrPC is not complied with after taking note of the evidence on
record. A copy of the judgment be forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in
compliance with the sec. 365‘Cr.P.C. The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 30th day of July, 2019.

rhog Al]
AAT
(D. BORA)
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.
aud See

sabe} of
ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:

PW1- Md. Noor Islam ee -

PW2- Musstt. Samila Khatun |
PW3- Musstt. Jabida Khatun

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:

Exhibit-1: Ejahar

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:
None,

Page 4 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 02/2015
