CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 50/16

Informant: The victim X.

Accused: Sri Raju Nayak,
S/o- Sri Arjun Nayak,
R/o- Kharjan Tea Estate,
PS- Chabua,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. B Hussain, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 50/16
G.R. Case No. 1694/16

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Raju Nayak

Charges: Unser Sections 4 of PCSO Act read with Section 376 IPC.

Date of evidence on : 23-09-16, 21-11-16, 15-02-17 & 14-03-17.
Date of argument : 30-06-17.
Date of Judgment — : 20-10-17.

1)

2)

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in a nutshell is that Raju Nayak (hereinafter the
accused) repeatedly called the victim X over phone and threatened her to
come out of her house, lest her family members will face dire consequences.
At about 9:30 p.m., victim was compelled to meet the accused who enticed
her with proposal of marriage and committed rape on her. On 26-06-16,
when the victim X went to the accused person’s house, the accused denied
the allegation of rape against him and fled. An ejahar regarding this incident
was lodged by the victim X with the Chabua police. A Chabua PS Case No.
95/16 under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC in short) read with
section 7 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(POCSO Act in short) was registered and SI Promod Phukan was endorsed
with the investigation.

The investigating officer (IO in short) swung into action and embarked upon
the investigation. He recorded the statement of the victim and forwarded her
to the Magistrate for recording her statement under section 164 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure (CrPC in short). He also forwarded the victim to the
medical officer (MO in short) for examination. He went to the place of
occurrence and prepared a sketch map and recorded the statements of the

witnesses. On finding prima facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet
3)

4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

against the accused person under section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of the
POCSO Act.
On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished, and a formal charge
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and section 376 IPC was framed and read
over and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and claimed
innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced and evidence of 7
witnesses including the MO and the IO. The defence cross examined all the
witnesses in extenso to refute the charges. The victim's mother was not cross
examined. The prosecution also exhibited several documents to buttress the
evidence.
Submissions:

The learned Public Prosecutor emphasized through argument that this case
has been proved beyond reasonable doubt and adequate punishment ought
to be inflicted upon the accused. On the contrary, the learned counsel for the
accused laid stress in his argument emphatically that a false case has been
foisted against the accused. It is also contended that the evidence is replete
with contradictions and the accused person ought to be acquitted from the
charges leveled against him.
On the backdrop of the arrival proponents urged at the bar, the following
points are apposite for the decision of this case:

1. Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault

on the victim X who was a minor at that time?
2. Whether the accused committed rape on the victim X,
forcefully, without her consent and against her will?
DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

To decide the case in its right perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence.
The victim X testified as PW-1 that on 26-06-16, at about 7 P.M, the accused
called her over phone and after a while, at about 9:30 p.m., the accused
called her over phone and asked her to go to the nearby tea garden. He also
threatened her that if she refused to meet him, he shall kill her and lodge a
false case against her family members. The accused again threatened her not
to disclose about the matter to anybody and as the victim was terrified about

the consequence, she went to the back side of her house to meet the
9)

accused person. PW-1 further testified that the accused took her to the
nearby tea garden and promised to marry her and thereafter committed
sexual intercourse with her. After the ordeal, the accused asked the victim to
wait there for a while and assuring her to take her on a motorbike, he left her
waiting in the garden. She waited for half an hour as asked by the accused,
but after a long wait, the accused failed to return. Then she frantically
searched for the accused. She went to the accused person's house and to his
shop and also called him over phone several times. When the accused did not
respond to her calls, she went to her friend Kanchani Nag's house.

Kanchani Nag's house is near the accused person's house and they stayed
there overnight. On the next morning, Kanchani called her mother to her
house and she narrated about the incident to her mother. Then she along
with her mother went to the accused person's house, but the accused denied
about the incident that took place on the previous night. Then she showed
the mobile to the accused person, but at that time the accused person fled.
She also narrated about the incident to the accused person's family members.
She also lodged an ejahar with the police. She narrated about the incident to
a person who resides near the police station and the person wrote the ejahar
for her and she affixed her signature after going through the contents of the
ejahar. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is her signature. After 3 days of the
incident, she was taken to the Assam Medical College and Hospital, Dibrugarh
by the police personnel for medical examination and she also came to the
Court for recording her statement Ext. 2, and Ext. 2(1) to Ext. 2(3) are her

signatures.

10) She testified in her cross examination that she had a love relationship with

the accused person for 3 years. She further testified that after the marriage
of the accused person, she continued her friendship with him. She also
testified in her cross examination that out of her love for the accused, she
went to meet him on the day of the incident. At that time, her mother, her
two maternal uncles and aunts were present in her house and all the family
members were awake. She also admitted that she did not raise alarm at the
time of the incident. She further admitted in her cross examination that the
accused had used her as his wife and she was maintaining an_ illicit

relationship with him.

11) Thus, the evidence of the victim clearly depicts that her testimony cannot be
relied to fasten the guild on the accused person. It is discernible from her
evidence that the accused person is a married man and the victim continued
with an extra marital affair with the accused person. Earlier she had extra
marital relationship with the accused. After the date of the alleged incident,
she was the one who went in pursuit of the accused person, searching for
him frantically in his house and shop premises, etc. The accused tried to
avoid her and fled. It is clear from her evidence that she tried to impose
herself on the accused person. In such a case, the allegation of rape by such
a victim cannot be relied upon. On the contrary, PW-1 is not a victim at all.
She appears to be enamoured by the accused person. Her testimony that she
was terrified by the accused person and so she went out and on being
enticed with the promise of marriage, she offered herself to be sexually
assaulted by the accused, cannot be relied upon by any prudent person.

12) The victim’s mother Smti. Monika Tanti testified as PW-2 that the victim was
16 years of age at that time. The incident took place on 26-04-16. On that
night, at about 9:30 pm, she retired to bed after dinner, but could not find
her daughter ‘X’ in the house. Then she informed her younger brother that X
was missing. After a frantic search in the locality, she could not trace out her
daughter. On the next morning, she searched for her daughter in the line, but
could not find her. Then Kanchani Nag's mother informed her that her
daughter was in their house. Then she went to Kanchani Nag's house and
met her daughter there. She asked her daughter about her disappearance
and her daughter informed her that the accused person called her to the
nearby garden and enticed her with a proposal of marriage and with such
false promise and threats of dire consequences exercised on her daughter,
her daughter went out from their house and met the accused person in the
nearby garden. Smti. Monika Tanti further testified that the accused
abandoned her daughter in the garden promising that he would bring a
motorcycle and take her on the bike, but the accused person failed to return.
When the accused person did not return for a long time, ‘X’ went to
Kanchani Nag's house and stayed there. There after she along with her
daughter went to the accused person’s house and asked him about the
incident which the accused person denied and he fled away. Then she
accompanied her daughter to the Chabua Police Station and her daughter

lodged an ejahar. The prosecution exhibited the Xerox copy of the birth
certificate of the victim X produced by Smti. Monika Tanti.

13)It has also been held that the victim’s testimony belies her evidence. In
similar manner, her mother's testimony also belies the evidence. Smti. Monika
Tanti failed to incriminate that the accused person committed rape on her
daughter. The accused has been alleged with a serious offence and it has to
be proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused is complicit. When the
victim’s mother failed to incriminate that the accused person committed rape
on her daughter, the allegation of penetrative sexual assault falls through.
The PW-2 testified that the accused exercised threats on her daughter and
compelled her daughter to meet him in the nearby garden. Thereafter, the
accused person abandoned her daughter. Thus, it can be deciphered that the
victim X is the one who was in pursuit of the accused person. Her mother did
not testify that the accused sexually assaulted her.

14) Sri Sankar Deep testified as PW-3 that the victim X is his niece. The incident
took place on 26-06-16. On that day, at about 10 p.m, his elder sister Smti.
Monika Tanti informed him that X was missing from her house. Then they all
set out in search of X, but could not find X. On the following day also, they
set out in search of X and at about 8 am, Kanchani Nag's mother informed his
elder sister over phone that X was in their house. Immediately Monika went
to Kanchani Nag's house and thereafter, she came to his house. PW-3 further
testified that he learnt that X was taken by the accused and thereafter she
went and stayed overnight in Kanchani's house. Then he along with his sister
Monika and X went to the accused person’s house. Monika charged the
accused about the incident, but the accused denied about the incident. At
that, his niece showed her mobile phone with the call logs of the previous
night and then the accused fled. Then he informed the nearby people and
Line Chowkider Sri Puran Nando about the incident. When the accused did
not return till late in the evening, his sister lodged an ejahar with the police.
When he asked X about the incident, X informed him that the accused called
her towards the backyard of her house and promising to marry her, he
committed sexual intercourse with her and abandoned her in the backyard
promising that he would return with a motorcycle, but did not return.

15) Contrary to this, he admitted in his cross examination that he did not ask X
about the incident. He admitted in his cross examination that prior to the

incident, there was love relationship between the accused and ‘X’.
16)The evidence of PW-3 also does not inspire confidence. When the victim
herself did not state before her own mother that the accused sexually
assaulted her, there appears to be no reason why she will go ahead and
inform her uncle that the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on
her or committed rape on her. PW-3 has also admitted that the victim had a
love relationship with the accused before the incident.

17) Even if the accused had a love relationship with the victim, yet the accused
cannot be charged with the offence of cheating the victim and inducing her to
have sexual relationship with him with the promise of marriage. He was also
married at the time and his promise to marry again depicts illicit relationship
between the accused and victim.

18)The Other discrepancy in the evidence is that Kanchani Nag was not
examined as a witness. According to the evidence, the victim took shelter in
Kanchani's house on the fateful night, but the prosecution agency failed to
examine Kanchani Nag as a witness. This casts a shadow of doubt over the
veracity of the evidence of PW-1, 2 &3.

19) Smti. Anita Nath testified as PW-4 that Kanchani Nag is her daughter and the
victim X is Kanchani's friend. The incident took place about 3/4 months back.
On the Night of the incident, while she was sleeping with her daughter, at
about 1 a.m., the victim X called her daughter from outside the house. Then
she awoke and opened the door and saw the victim standing in front of her
house. She asked the victim what happened. The victim then went into her
house and stated that she was with the accused person. She also informed
her that the accused would come to her house after a while. Then she
allowed the victim to stay in her house and she slept with her daughter
Kanchani. On the next morning, she came to know from the victim's mother
and the family members that they were searching for her. Then she sent back
the victim to her house. Later on, the victim filed an ejahar against the
accused.

20) In her cross examination, she testified that the victim was about 17 years as
she was born on the same year when her daughter was born. She also
denied any knowledge about the incident.

21)The evidence of PW-4 depicts that the victim stayed in her house on the
night of the incident, but PW-4 did not incriminate the accused person. On

the contrary, PW-4's evidence depicts that the accused was supposed to join
the victim in her (PW-4) house. Her evidence depicts that she took the victim
back to her house.

22)It is true that on the fateful night, the victim took shelter in her friend’s
house, but the reason why the victim had to take shelter in her friend’s
house, could not be properly elicited. It has also been held that the victim’s
evidence does not inspire confidence and her testimony was found unreliable.

23)Sri Puran Nanda testified as PW-5 that the incident took place about 3/4
months back. One morning, the victim's mother went to his house and
informed him that her daughter X was taken by the accused person on the
previous night and her daughter was found in Kanchani Nag's house. Smti.
Monika Tanti, i.e., mother of X, took her daughter to the accused person's
house and asked him to accept her daughter, but the accused person denied
to accept X as his wife and fled away from his house. PW-5 further testified
that as he is the Line Chawkider of the tea garden, Smti. Monika Tanti asked
him to arrange for a meeting to discuss the matter, but the accused person
was absent in the meeting. Later on, X lodged an ejahar with the police.

24) Thus, it is clear from the evidence that when the accused person failed to
accept the victim as his wife, a case was slammed against him with allegation
of rape.

25) The medical officer Dr. Ashrulina Deori testified as PW-6 that on 28-06-16,
she examined X on police requisition in connection with this case and found
the following:

On genital examination: Genital organs well developed. Vulva is
healthy. Hymen: Old tear present 2, 6 & 9 O’ clock position. Vagina
healthy. Cervix: Os closed. Uterus: Normal size. Evidence of
veneral disease not detected clinically. Evidence of injury on her
body or private parts: No evidence of injury on her private part.
Vaginal smears were taken from glass slide from posterior fornix in
and around the cervix result of which does not show any
spermatozoa.

X-ray requisition was given to WPC 691 Rima Das on 28-06-16,
but till date (18-07-16), X-ray report was not found.

26)On the basis of Physical examination, dental examination and Laboratory
Investigation done on the victim X, the doctor has opined that-

(1) Her approximate age is sixteen to seventeen years. However, to
know the exact age of the victim, X-ray report is necessary.
(2) Evidence of recent sexual intercourse is not detected on her body.
(3) No evidence of violence mark on her private part.
Ext. 4 is the Medico-legal Report where Ext. 4(1) to Ext. (3) are her
signatures.

27)In cross-examination, the doctor testified that the period of recent sexual
intercourse has to be 24-40 hours.

28) The doctor did not detect any evidence of sexual assault on the victim's body.
No incident of forceful sexual intercourse was also detected on the victim's
body. The victim’s evidence appears to be too farfetched and sketchy.
Moreover, her evidence is not supported by the evidence of her medical
examination. Her age is opined to be from 16 to 17 years. On the basis of
criminal jurisprudence, the victim’s age is considered to be 2 years on the
higher side of 17 years. As the victim could not produce any school certificate
or birth certificate, the victim is considered to be a major at the time of the
alleged incident.

29)The IO is a formal witness. SI Promud Phukan testified as PW-7 that on
27-06-16, while working as SI of police at Chabua Police Station, the OC of
Chabua Police Station endorsed him to investigate the case registered on the
basis of ejahar received from the victim X. The ejahar was registered as
Chabua PS Case No. 95/16 under section 376 IPC read with section 7 of the
POCSO Act. He recorded the statement of the victim in police station and
forwarded her to the Magistrate for recording her statement under section
164 CrPC and to the doctor for medical examination. He went to the place of
occurrence and recorded the statements of the witnesses and prepared the
sketch map Ext. 5 where Ext. 5(1) is his signature. He also recorded the
statements of the witnesses at the place of occurrence. On finding prima
facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet against accused. Ext. 6 is the
Charge-Sheet and Ext. 6(1) is his signature.

30)It has already been held in my foregoing discussions that the victim's
testimony does not inspire confidence. Her evidence is not supported by the
evidence of her own mother who failed to implicate that the accused
committed penetrative sexual assault on her daughter, i.e., on X. It is thereby
held that the prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the

accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim X. The
10

prosecution also failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused
had sexual intercourse with the victim without her consent and against her
will. Thereby the accused Sri Raju Nayak is acquitted from the charges under
section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act on benefit of doubt
and is set at liberty forthwith.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 20" day of
October, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
11

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 The victim X;
2. PW-2 Smti. Monika Tanti;
3. PW-3 Sri Sankar Deep;
4. PW-4 Smti. Anita Nath;
5. PW-5 Sri Puran Nanda;
6. PW-6 Dr. Ashrulina Deori;
7. PW-7 SI Promud Phukan.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Ejahar;
2. Ext. 2 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
3. Ext. 3 Photocopy of the Birth Certificate of the victim (proved in original);
4. Ext. 4 Medico-legal Report;
5. Ext. 5 Sketch-Map; and
6. Ext. 6 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
