DISTRICT : DHUBRI

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHUBRI
PRESENT: - Shri D. Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Dhubri.

Special Case No. 03 OF 2018
U/S 376 D IPC, r/w section 6 of POCSO Act

Corresponding to G.R. Case No.4102/2017

State of Assam
Versus

1. Eyajul Ali and

2. Rosid Sheikh

 

Charge framed on : 01-02-2018

Evidence recorded on : 13-03-2018, 10-04-2018, 20-04-2018,
17-05-2018 and 14-06-2018

Statement recorded on : 03-07-2018

Argument heard on : 29-09-2018.

Judgment delivered on : 10-10-2018

Advocates who appeared in this case

Shri B. Basumatary, Special P.P. for the Prosecution
Shri Aminur Rahman Ahmed, Advocate, for the Defence

JUDGMENT

1. Accused persons Eyajul Ali and Rosid Sheikh stand trial for the offences
punishable under Section 376 D/366-A IPC read with section. 6 of POCSO Act for
allegedly committing kidnapping a minor girl and also committing gang rape on

\ her.
f\!
g A : yo”

R ‘
one Huo
 

ee

on?

ce

oe

Special Case No. 03 of 2

2. Facts of the case, in brief, as appears from the ejahar are as follows: That on 13-

09-2017 at about 7:30 pm the above mentioned accused persons with another
who subsequently declared as child-in-conflict with law took away 13 year old
daughter of the complainant to a nearby jute field by gagging her mouth and
committed rape on her forcefully. Thereafter, the accused persons left that place
by keeping her in unconscious condition. At night about 2:30 am while the
complainant went outside to response nature’s call, he found his daughter in
unconscious condition in the jute field and brought her to the house. After
regaining sense, his daughter told him about the incident. Villagers assured the
complainant that they would settle the matter but, the matter was not settled.
So, the complainant lodged a written ejahar before the Superintendent of Police,
Dhubri 18-09-2017. The Superintendent of Police Dhubri forwarded the ejahar to
the O/C, Tamarhat P.S. where a case as Tamarhat P.S case no. 215/17, u/s
366A/376 G/120-B/201/506 IPC, r/w section 4 of POCSO Act was registered.

. During investigation, the accused persons were arrested and produced them in

the Court. The victim girl was medically examined and her statement was
recorded through Judicial Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. IO. recorded the
statements of the witnesses u/s 161 Cr.P.C. and by completing the investigation,
submitted charge sheet against the accused persons Rosid Sk, Eyajul Ali and
child-in-conflict with law u/s 366/376 D IPC, r/w section 6 of POCSO Act.

One of the accused was declared as child-in-conflict with law and the case was

split up accordingly against him.

After taking cognizance of the case, copies were furnished to the accused
persons and after hearing both the parties and perusal of the case record and
case diary, formal charge against the accused u/s 376-D IPC, read with section 6
of POCSO Act was framed. Charge so framed was read over and explained to the
accused persons, to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
Subsequently section 366-A IPC was added and after framing charge under

section 366-A IPC the same was read over and explained to the accused persons

i which they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
oe

oY

 
 

 

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

. Prosecution has examined altogether nine witnesses including medical and

investigating officers and closed evidence. Judicial Magistrate who recorded the

statement of the alleged victim under section 164 Cr. P. C. was examined as

Court witness.

After completion of the prosecution evidence, the statement of the accused

persons were recorded u/s 313 Cr. P. C. by putting questions to them from all

incriminating evidence appearing against them on record and thereby giving

them an opportunity to meet the same. In response to which, the accused

persons denied the allegations as well as evidence on record and also declined to

adduce evidence in defence .

- Heard argument advanced by learned counsels appearing for the parties.

. Following points have been set up for determination:

1. Whether the accused persons on 13-09-2017 at about 07:00/07:30

p.m., at village Bherbheri, under Tamarhat Police Station, constituted
@ group and committed rape on the minor daughter of the
complainant and thereby the accused persons are liable to be
punished u/s 365-D IPC?

Whether the accused persons on the same day, time and place,
committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the minor
daughter of the complainant, a child under 18 years of age and
thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act?

Whether the accused persons on the same day time and place
kidnapped the minor daughter of the complainant and handed over
her to another to do illicit intercourse with him and thereby the
accused persons are liable to be punished under section 366-A IPC?
 

 

 

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

DISCUSSION ON THE POINTS FOR DETERMINATION AND DECISION

x6

ARRIVED THEREON WITH REASONS

©

10.In order to establish the charges framed against the accused persons, the

prosecution has examined altogether nine witnesses. Among them, PW-1 is the
complainant, PW-2 is the alleged victim, PW-8 is the brother-in-law of the
complainant, PW-3 is Abdul Mozid Sk, PW-4 Abdul Rahim Talukdar, PW-6 Nurul
Islam Sheikh and PW-7 Shonaullah Mondal, are independent witnesses, PW-5
Rinku Ahmed is the Medical Officer and PW-9 Abdul Motleb Sheikh is the
Investigating Officer.

11.Debabrata Kalita, Judicial Magistrate 1‘ Class, Dhubri is examined as CW-1.

12.The defence examined none. The plea of defence is total denial of the case.

13.For proper appreciation of the evidence on record let us reproduce material parts

of the oral testimonies of the prosecution witnesses.

PW-1 is the complainant and the father of the alleged victim. His
deposition shows that on 13-09-2017, at about 07:00/07:30 p.m., he was
returning home from market and found none in his house. One of his
aunts told him that his wife went to the house of his father-in-law. He
called his wife who returned home shortly. But his daughter was not with
her. On being asked about his daughter, his wife told him that she went
to her parents’ house keeping her daughter in the residence. As his
daughter was not in the residence, so they searched her but found no
Clue of her. At about 02:00 a.m., to attend natures call, he went to
nearby paddy field and heard a sound. He went to the source of the

sound and found that his daughter was lying on the ground without

sense. He carried his daughter to home. In the meantime, he called his
brother-in-law (P. W. 8). At about 03:00 a.m., his daughter regained her
sense. P. W. 8 asked his daughter what had happened and she disclosed
before P. W. 8 that while she was sitting at Varanda and watching mobile

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

13.2

4 RX) r) . 52

Nata

x oH

or oie

x

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

phone then Rashid and Eyajul came to his house and had taken away
her. Except this P. W. 8 disclosed nothing. After 20 days of the incident,
the complainant asked his daughter what had happened on the day of
incident then his daughter told him that Rashid and Eyajul took her and
handed over to child-in-conflict with law who misbehaved her. Villagers
assured him that they would settle the matter; but, the matter was not
settled. So, after five days, he lodged the ejahar. Ejahar was written by
one Advocate’s clerk. The ejahar was read over to him. Ext-1 is the ejahar
and ext-1 (1) is his signature. In cross examination, he has deposed that
Tamarhat Police Station is situated just 2 k.m. away from his house.
Tamarhat PHC is situated just half kilometer away from Tamarhat Police
Station. After the incident he came to Dhubri, consulted with a Lawyer
and drafted the ejahar. On the night of incident, he searched his
daughter in the house of Amu, Azid and many others. The houses of
accused persons are near to his house. He searched his daughter in their
houses too; but, he did not find his daughter. After recovery of his
daughter at paddy field, he raised no alarm and did not call any person.
He could not say the colour of dress of his daughter. The dress of his
daughter was not handed over to police. The mobile handset was not
given to police. He cannot say how his daughter went away from his
house. In the ejahar he mentioned the names of seven persons and
alleged that all of them committed gang rape on his daughter. After the
incident, no medical treatment was given to his daughter. The ejahar was
written at Dhubri. The scribe drafted the same as told by him and his
daughter. In the ejahar it was written that his 13 year old daughter was
taken to a jute field by the accused persons and child-in-conflict with law
after inducing her. The accused persons called his daughter in her mobile
phone. The child-in-conflict with law called his daughter. He heard that
his daughter visited the house of Arman Ali after receiving the phone call
and from there she was missing.

PW-2 is the alleged victim. Her deposition shows that about eight months
back, one day she was alone in her house. At about 7:00/8:00 pm, child-
in-conflict with law, Eyajul and Rashid Sk came to her house, gagged her
mouth and had taken her away to the nearby jute field. Thereafter, child-

 

 
 

 

\
q | ‘ we e

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

in-conflict with law committed rape on her. At that time, Eyajul and
Rashid Sk were standing on the road. After commission of rape, all the
accused persons compelled her to take a tablet. Thereafter, she lost her
sense. At about 03:30 am, she regained her sense at her house. After
that she told the incident to her father. Next day, there held a bichar in a
school field. In that bichar, child-in-conflict with law sought an amount of

v

Rs. 30,000/-’and ornaments from her father and told that after getting
money and ornaments he would marry her. After five days of the
incident, her father lodged the ejahar. She was produced before the
Medical Officer and Judicial Magistrate. Her statement was recorded by
Judicial Magistrate where she put her thumb impression. In cross
examination she has deposed that the I.0. recorded her statement. At
the time of incident, she was watching mobile handset. Police did not
seize the mobile handset. The house of child-in-conflict with law is near to
her house. The houses of accused Eyajul and Rashid Sk are situated at
about one furlong away from her house. She received injuries on her
body. Her wearing clothes were soaked with blood and stain of mud. The
accused persons took her away up to half kilometer distance. She was
lying in the field unconscious. As child-in-conflict with law refused to
marry her; so, her father lodged the ejahar. On the next day of the
incident, in the village bichar, the family members of child-in-conflict with
law gave consent to solemnize her marriage with him. But, accused Eyajul
and Rashid Sk raised objection. As the accused Eyajul and Rashid Sk
raised objection; so, her marriage was not solemnized with him. She was
present in the village bichar. Accused persons were involved with
exchange of hot words with her uncle P. W. 8 in the village bichar. On the
day of filing the ejahar she came to Dhubri with her father and told the
incident to the ejahar writer. The child-in-conflict with law called her in
her mobile phone and after receiving the phone call she went to the
house of Arman Ali. The house of Arman Ali is near to her house. While
she was taken by child-in-conflict with law then two persons were with
him. On the day of bichar those two persons were present and on that
day she came to know that those two persons were Rashid Sheikh and
Eyajul Ali. As Rashid Sheikh and Eyajul Ali raised objection in her

6

 

 

 
 

 

 

Bs “ne
BY ae”

ce

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

marriage with child-in-conflict with law; so, she told that they were
present with child-in-conflict with law on the day of the incident.

13.3" PW-3 Abdul Mozid Sk who is an independent witness has deposed that

13.4

13.5

about four months back, the complainant visited his house and told him
that accused Eyajul established illicit relation with his daughter. His
daughter was found in a paddy field in unconscious condition and she
was recovered at about 3:00 a.m. After the incident, a meeting was held
in the house of one Amu Sk. In that meeting, the guardian of Eyajul
refused to solemnize marriage of Eyajul and the daughter of the
complainant as Eyajul was a minor. He advised him to take the help of
law.

PW-4 Abdul Rahim Talukdar has deposed that about one year back, there
held a meeting near a school at village Ujanpetla. At the end of the
meeting, he participated in the meeting and heard that child-in-conflict
with law confessed that he committed rape on the victim. Thereafter, he
left the meeting. In cross examination, PW-4 deposed that he heard that
child-in-conflict with law had taken away the victim girl at night from her
house.

PW-5 Dr. (Mrs) Rinku Ahmed is the Medical Officer. She has deposed that

on 25-09-2017 she examined the victim, aged about 13 years in

connection with Tamarhat PS case no. 215/2017. On being asked, victim
told her that on the day of occurrence while she was alone in her
verandah, three boys namely Eyajul Sk, Rashid and child-in-conflict with
law closed her mouth and took her to her back side of her house and
child-in-conflict with law sexually assaulted her. On examination, she
found the patient was normal. She did not find any mark of injury on her
body. She also did not find spermatozoa in the vaginal smear. She did not
find any evidence of recent sexual intercourse on the victim at the time of
examination. PW-5 exhibited her report as Ext-2 and Ext-2(1) is her
signature. In cross examination, she deposed that the history depicted in
column no. 9 of Ext-2 is as per version of the patient.

PW-6 Nurul Islam Sheikh has deposed that about six months back, at
village- Ujanpetla near 189 No. Upgrade L.P. School there held a meeting

and in that meeting accused persons were present. The victim was also

 

ee.
 

 

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

present. He heard her statement given in the meeting. As per her
statement on previous night while she was watching mobile phone in the
« , house of Arman Ali and then accused Eyajul and Rashid came to the
| house of Arman Ali, lifted her from the house of Arman Ali to a jute filed.
The accused persons kept her in the jute filed and called child-in-conflict
with law over mobile phone. After arrival of child-in-conflict with law
accused Rashid Ali and Eyajul Ali handed her to him and left the place.
Thereafter, child-in-conflict with law committed rape on her. In the
meeting the accused persons denied the statement of the victim. In cross
examination, PW-6 has deposed that the house of complainant is situated
just 50 yards away from the house of Arman Ali. Arman has his mother,
wife and son. The five brothers of Arman are also resided in the same
compound with Arman Ali. He knows the victim was taken to the jute filed
which is just behind the house of Arman Ali. He has no personal
knowledge about the incident. Next day of the incident police recorded
his statement. In the meeting child-in-conflict with law intended to marry
the victim and father of victim was also ready to solemnize the marriage
between child-in-conflict with law and his daughter. The child-in-conflict
with law disclosed in the meeting that he had affairs with the victim. He

does not know whether the statement of the victim was correct or false.

13.7. PW-7 Shonaullah Mondal has deposed that about six months back, at

village- Ujanpetla near 189 No. Upgrade L.P. School there held a meeting
and in that meeting accused persons were present. The victim was also
present. He heard her statement given in the meeting. As per her
statement on previous night she was watching mobile phone in her house
and then accused Eyajul and Rashid came to her house, lifted her from
her house to a jute filed. The accused persons kept her in the jute filed
and called child-in-conflict with law over mobile phone. After arrival of the
child-in-conflict with law accused Rashid Ali and Eyajul Ali handed her
over to the child-in-conflict with law and left the place. Thereafter, the
child-in-conflict with law committed rape on her. In that meeting, the
accused persons denied the statement of the victim. In his cross
examination, PW-7 has deposed that after his arrival in the meeting
accused persons were called to the meeting. His house is situated about 1
~4.

 

 

 

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

k.m. away from the house of complainant. He does not know whether the
statement of the victim was correct or not. He did not ask about the
incident to the victim and her father. In the meeting there discussed
about solemnization of marriage between the child-in-conflict with law
and the victim. He had not seen the place of occurrence.

PW-8 is the brother in law of the complainant. He has deposed that about
six months back, one night about 11:00 P.M. complainant called him to
his house and told him about missing of his daughter. They searched the
victim but could not find out her. Next day morning complainant informed
him that his daughter was recovered from jute filed. He visited the house
of the complainant and asked the victim what had happened. Then, the
victim told him that Eyajul and Rashid lifted her by covering her mouth
from her house to jute filed where the child-in-conflict with law
committed rape on her. Thereafter, a bichar was held in the village.
Accused Rashid and Eyajul denied the allegation that they lifted the victim
from her house. In cross examination, PW-8 has deposed that on the day
of incident two daughters of the complainant and one son-in-law of the
complainant were present in the house of the complainant. At about
11:00 P.M. while he visited the house of the complainant he found the ©
family members of the complainant and the grandmother of the victim girl
in the house. While he met the victim, she was found in good health. In
presence of him the complainant and his family members did not ask
anything to the victim. He had not seen the place from where the victim
was recovered. He does not know whether the victim told him the truth
or not.

PW-9 is the Investigating Officer. He has deposed that on 23-09-2017, he
was working at Tamarhat P.S. On that day, the complainant lodged a
written ejahar before the S.P. Dhubri. After receiving the ejahar, S.P.
Dhubri forwarded the ejahar to Tamarhat Police Station asking to conduct
an enquiry into the matter. After receiving the ejahar, O/C, Tamarhat P.S.
registered the case as Tamarhat P.S. case no, 215/17 u/s 366(A)/376
(a)/120(B)/201/506 IPC, r/w section 4 of POCSO Act. O/C, Tamarhat PS
entrusted him to investigate the case. On that day, at about 3:40 PM he

visited place of occurrence which is 3 kms away from the police station.
 

 

x

"

 

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

He examined the complainant in his residence. The complainant told him
that the victim was dragged from the verandah of his house to nearby
jute field. He prepared two sketch maps of place of occurrence. One is
the verandah of the complainant and another is the jute field. The
statement of victim was recorded in her house. The victim was medically
examined at Dhubri Civil Hospital and also sent her to the court for
recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On 27-09-2017, he visited again
the house of the complainant and examined other witnesses. He arrested
the accused Eyajul Ali on 13-10-2017 and accused Rashid Sk on 27-12-
2017 and produced them in the court. During investigation, birth
certificate of the victim girl was seized and given jimmah to the
complainant. After collecting the medical report of the victim, he has
completed investigation and submitted charge sheet against accused
persons and the child-in-conflict with law u/s 366/376(D) IPC, r/w section
6 of POCSO Act. He exhibited the sketch maps as Ext-3 and Ext-4, seizure
list as Ext-5, Charge sheet as Ext-6. He also exhibited his signatures
which are marked as Ext-3(1), 4(1), 5(1) and 6(1). He has also exhibited
the seized birth certificate of the alleged victim which the prosecution has
exhibited and marked as M. Ext. 1. In cross examination, PW-9 has
deposed that the place of occurrence is situated 3 kms East from the
police station. O/C, Tamarhat P.S. received the ejahar from the Office of
S.P.. Dhubri through official Dak. The name of the person who brought
the ejahar has not written in the case diary. Seal of S.P. office has not
contained in the ejahar. In the ejahar, Crime Branch of SP Office, Dhubri
requested O/C, Tamarhat P.S. to conduct an enquiry, but he could not
recognize the signature appears in the ejahar. The incident took place on
13-09-2017, the case was registered on 23-09-2017 and the victim was
examined at Dhubri Civil Hospital on 25-09-2017. There is no report that
family members of the victim produced her before any Medical Officer for
her treatment after the incident. Tamarhat PHC is situated just 3 and V2
kms away from the place of occurrence. During investigation, he found no
evidence of threatening to the complainant in case of filing case at police
station. He seized no mobile handset during investigation. As shown to

him the place of occurrence is a jute field which is situated 1 and ‘2

10
=

13.10

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

furlong away from the house of the complainant. The adjacent jute field
to the house of complainant was not shown to him as place of
‘occurrence. As he inspected the place of occurrence after several days of
the incident, so he found no mark of happening of incident in the jute
field. The owner of the jute field was not examined by him. He seized no
cloths of the victim. The victim told him that the accused persons
compelled her to drink liquid substance. The victim told him that accused
Eyajul and Rashid came to her house and taken her away, but she has
not disclosed the name of the child-in-conflict with law. P. W. 8 told him
that he heard about the incident from the complainant. He did not
disclose that he heard the incident from the victim.

Debabrata Kalita, Judicial Magistrate 1% Class recorded the statement of
the alleged victim under section 164 Cr. P. C. As he has not cited as
witness; so he has been examined as CW-1. He has deposed that one 25-
09-2017 while he was working as Judicial Magistrate First Class at Dhubri,
Special Judge, Dhubri directed him to record the statement of the victim
u/s 164 Cr.P.C. in connection with Tamarhat PS case no. 215/17.
Accordingly, he recorded the statement of the alleged victim u/s 164

Cr.P.C. After recording the statement, the same was read over and ~

explained to her. The victim put her thumb impression in the statement.
The thumb impression was obtained by the Bench Assistant in his
presence. CW-1 exhibited the same as Ext-7 and Ext-7(1) is his signature.
In cross examination, he has deposed that the victim girl disclosed before
him that the child-in-conflict with law, Rosid Sk and Eyajul Ali took her to
the nearby field behind her house and they committed rape on her. The
victim girl did not disclose before him that while the child-in-conflict with
law was committing rape on her, then Rosid and Eyajul were standing on

road.

14. Learned Special Public Prosecutor during argument has submitted that the case

is serious in nature. In the case in hand the prosecution examined all the

material witnesses. The victim girl who is the principal witness for the

prosecution has depicted how she was kidnapped by the accused persons and

committed rape on her by one of the associates of the accused persons. The.

11

 

 

 

 
 

 

15.

16.

 

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

accused persons were the associates of the main accused whom the Court
subsequently found child-in-conflict with law. Her deposition is fully corroborated
by the complainant who is her father. The prosecution is able to establish the
charge framed against the accused persons beyond all reasonable doubt. So, has
prayed to hold the accused persons guilty under framed charges and impose
adequate punishment to them.

On the other hand learned defence counsel has submitted that the allegations
against the accused persons are serious in nature and it is the duty of the
prosecution to establish the charge framed against the accused persons beyond
all reasonable doubt. The prosecution examined altogether nine witnesses; but
none of them corroborated each other. The ejahar was lodged lately without
showing any sufficient grounds. The prosecution has failed to locate the actual
place of occurrence. ‘From the evidence of the prosecution witnesses it appears
that the complainant attempted to solemnize the marriage of his daughter, the
alleged victim, with the child-in-conflict with law. But the accused persons
protested: as it was illegal as per law as at the relevant time the alleged victim
was a minor girl. For the objection of the accused persons the marriage of the
minor daughter of the complainant was not solemnized; so, the complainant just
to take revenge filed the false case against the accused persons. Learned
defence counsel has prayed to hold the accused persons as honest and acquit

them.

From the case record it appears that the complainant on 18-09-2017 lodged a
written ejahar against seven persons including the accused persons and the
child-in-conflict with law before the Superintendent of Police Dhubri. The
prosecution exhibited the ejahar and marked the same as Ext. 1 and the author
authenticated his signature in the ejahar which has been marked as Ext. 1 (1).
From the contents of the ejahar it appears that the alleged incident took place on
13-09-2017 at about 7/7.30 p.m. The allegations against the ejahar named
accused persons are that on the day of the incident i.e. 13-09-2017 at about
7/7.30 p.m. while the complainant was not at his residence then the accused
persons lifted his 13 year old daughter to a jute field and committed rape on her
repeatedly. On that night at about 2/2.30 a.m. while he came out from his house

12

 
Gee
LO sy

oe ge

iM

 

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

to respond nature’s call, he heard sound and found his daughter and found her in
unconscious condition. He brought her to his house. After gaining the sense she
told: entire facts to him. The complainant while deposed in the Court has
corroborated the contents of the ejahar except that his daughter after gaining
the sense told him about the incident. He (P. W.1) has deposed that he called his
brother who asked his daughter what had happened and his brother told him
that while his daughter was sitting in veranda and watching mobile phone then
the accused persons came to his house and had taken her away. From oral
testimony of the complainant it appears that at the time of the alleged incident
his daughter was sitting in the veranda of his house and he found his daughter in
senseless condition at nearby paddy field. The alleged victim (P. W. 2) has
deposed that on the day of the incident she was alone in her house. Around 7/8
p.m. accused persons and child-in-conflict with law came to her house, gagged
her mouth and had taken her away to the nearby jute field where the child-in-
conflict with law committed rape on her and the accused persons were standing
on the road. After commission of rape all the accused persons compelled to take
her a tablet and she lost her sense. P. W. 2 being the alleged victim is the star
witness for the prosecution. She, in clear terms has stated that the child-in-
conflict with law committed rape on her and the accused persons were standing
on the road. After filing the ejahar the statement of the alleged victim was
recorded by Judicial Magistrate under section 164 Cr. P. C. The alleged victim put
her thumb impression in her statement. So, the Judicial Magistrate Debabrata
Kalita who recorded her statement was examined as Court witness who exhibited
the statement of the victim girl as Ext. 7 and authenticated his signature thereon
and marked as Ext. 7 (1). The statement of the victim girl was recorded on 25-
09-2017 though the alleged incident was reported to police on 18-09-2017. In
the statement.recorded under section 164 Cr. P. C. the alleged victim stated that
the accused persons and the child-in-conflict with law lifted her to the field which
is just behind their house and committed rape on her. But while she deposed in
the Court during trial she has deposed that only the child-in-conflict with law
committed rape on her. P. W. 5, the medical officer examined the alleged victim
on 25-09-2017; but she did not find any mark of injury on the person of the
alleged victim and also not find any evidence or recent sexual intercourse on the

alleged victim at the time of examination.

13
 

 

 

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

17. Charges under section 376 D IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act are very serious in

nature, The alleged victim while given her statement to Judicial Magistrate under
section 164 Cr. P. C. implicated all the accused persons including the child-in-
conflict with law. But while she deposed in the Court during trial she only
implicated the child-in-conflict with law. According to her while the child-in-
conflict with law was committing rape on her the accused persons were standing
on the road. Learned defence counsel by relying a decision of the Hon’ble
Gauhati High Court passed in Abdul Hussain Laskar vs. State of Assam &
Another 2017 (4) GLT 97 has submitted that the testimony of the alleged
victim is not at all reliable as she stated two different story. The Hon’ble Gauhati
High Court in Abdul Hussain Laskar’s decision has opined that statement of
prosecutrix during the trial found inconsistent with her statement recorded under
section 164 Cr. P. C. raising doubt about authenticity of the allegation. In the
case in hand also the alleged victim stated two stories. In her statement while
recorded under section 164 Cr. P. C. implicated the accused persons so far
commission of rape is concerned; but while deposed in the Court simply

implicated only the child-in-conflict with law.

. In the case in hand except the alleged victim there was no eye witness of the

incident. As per the complainant and the alleged victim at the time of the
incident the alleged victim was alone in her house. From the evidence it
transpires that the houses of the accused persons are situated about one furlong
away from the house of the complainant and the house of the child-in-conflict
with law is near to her house. As per the complainant and the alleged victim the
alleged victim was lifted from the house of her veranda while she was watching
mobile phone and she was dragged to nearby field and committed rape on her
by the child-in-conflict with law. So, there are two places of incident. The
investigating officer drew two sketch maps [Ext 3 and Ext. 4] where he shows
the house of the complainant and jute field of the place of occurrence. From the
evidence of the complainant it appears that on the night of the incident he
searched his daughter; but could not trace her out. At about 3 a.m. while he was
coming out to response nature's call he found his daughter in his field which is

just back side of his residence in unconscious condition. The alleged victim in her

14

 
 

4
1 ail

Nk

ca
et 2 Se
ov

.*

19.

20.

21.

22.

 

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

cross-examination has deposed that the accused persons had taken her away up
to half kilometer distance.

From the evidence on record it appears that on the next day of the alleged
incident there conveyed a bichar and in that bichar the complainant, the alleged
victim, the independent witnesses, accused persons and the child-in-conflict with
law were present. The alleged victim has deposed that the child-in-conflict with
law demanded Rs. 30,000/ and ornaments from her father and after getting
money and ornament he would marry her. In cross-examination the alleged
victim has deposed that the family members of the child-in-conflict with law gave
consent to solemnize her marriage with the child-in-conflict with law’; but the
accused persons raised objection; so, her marriage was not solemnized with the
child-in-conflict with law. The independent witnesses have deposed that they
were present in the village bichar where the alleged victim gave her statement
and according to her the accused persons lifted her to the jute field and handed
over the child-in-conflict with law who committed rape on her. But P. W. 6 Nurul
Islam Sheikh has deposed that the accused persons lifted the victim from the
house of one Arman Ali. The independent witnesses in their cross-examination
have deposed that they do not know whether the statement of the alleged victim
was true or false. From the oral testimonies of the independent witnesses it

appears that the accused persons denied the statement of the alleged victim.

From the oral testimonies of the alleged victim given by her in the Court during
trial it transpires that the accused persons committed no rape on her on the
night of the alleged incident. So, the charge framed against the accused persons
under section 376 D IPC and 6 of POCSO Act have not established against the

accused persons.

Now let us scrutinize whether the accused persons kidnapped the alleged victim
and handed over her to the child-in-conflict with law for illicit intercourse or not.

From the oral testimonies of the independent witnesses it appears that in the
village bichar held on the next day of the alleged incident the alleged victim gave
a statement where she stated that the accused persons lifted her to the jute field

15
 

23 .

24.

 

A 25.

 

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

and handed her over to the child-in-conflict with law who committed rape on her.
But the independent witnesses could not say whether the statement of the
alleged victim was true or not.

The birth certificate of the alleged victim (M. Ext. 1) shows that on the day of the
alleged incident the alleged victim was 13 year 1 month 14 days old. From the
evidence on record it transpires that the father of the alleged victim intended to
solemnize her marriage with the child-in-conflict with law. As the alleged victim
was a minor; so, such type of attempt was illegal. Though the alleged victim in
her cross-examination has deposed that the accused persons raised objection
while the child-in-conflict with law agreed to marry her. But it is not clear as to
why the accused persons raised objection. Learned defence counsel during his
argument has submitted that as the alleged victim was a minor girl; so, the
accused persons were against her marriage.

To arrive at just decision of the case charge under section 366-A IPC was added
and the defence re-crossed P. W. 1, the complainant and P. W. 2, the victim. On
perusal the re-cross-examination of the complainant and the victim it appears
that on the day of the alleged incident the victim received a phone call from the
child-in-conflict with law and then she went to the house of Arman Ali which is
near to her house. The child-in-conflict with law arrived at the house of Arman Ali
and lifted the victim from his house. The victim (P. W. 2) has deposed that two
persons were with the child-in-conflict with law; but she could not recognize
them. On the day of bichar those two persons were present and then she could
recognize that those two persons were none but other than the accused Rashid
and Eyajul. She has further deposed that as accused Rashid and Eyajul raised
objection in her marriage with the child-in-conflict with law in the village bichar;
so, she told that they were present with the child-in-conflict with law at the time
of incident.

From the examination-in-chief of the victim girl it appears that she knows that
accused persons and on the day of the incident while she was alone in her house
the accused persons with child-in-conflict with law came to her house and had

16
 

 

CY

Na

26.

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

taken her to nearby jute field. But in cross-examination she has depicted a
different story. As per her cross-examination, at the time of the incident she was
not at her residence; but was in the house of Arman Ali. She came to the house
of Arman Ali as the child-in-conflict with law by calling her in her mobile phone
asked to do so. From the house of Arman Ali she was lifted by the child-in-
conflict with law and two persons whom she could not recognize at the time of
incident. The victim and the accused persons are the resident of same village. As
per the victim the houses of the accused persons are just one furlong away from

her house. So, question of not recognizing the accused persons on the day of

incident does not arise as she has stated nothing that the accused persons

covered their faces. But the victim could not recognize them. There might be
some other persons with the child-in-conflict with law whom the victim could not
recognize. The most important revelation from the victim is that on the day of
the village bichar the accused persons were present and they raised objection
against the propose marriage of the victim with the child-in-conflict with law; so,
she implicated the accused persons that they were present with the child-in-
conflict with law at the time of the incident.

The general presumption in a criminal case is that the accused is innocent unless
the contrary is proved and, in general, the more serious the crime the more
clearly must it be proved. But there is another presumption that every man is to
be presumed to have intended the natural and probable consequences of his
acts. In all criminal trials, where the accused pleads “not guilty” the general rule
is that the prosecution must prove the guilt of the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt. In the case in hand after meticulous perusal the evidence on record it
appears that the evidence of the victim creates doubt regarding presence of the
accused persons at the time of the incident with the child-in-conflict with law.
From her evidence it transpires that she has admitted the version of the defence
that the accused persons raised objection in the village bichar when the marriage
of her with the child-in-conflict with law was discussed. She clearly stated that as
the accused persons raised objection in her marriage; so, she told the name of
the accused persons that they were present with the child-in-conflict with law.

17

renee

eked ees aoe

 

 

 

 
Special Case No. 03 of 2018

27. Hence, coming to the decision on the points of determination, to sum up, in view
of foregoing discussions and finding, I am of the considered opinion that the
prosecution could not establish and prove the charge under sections 376-D/366-
A IPC read with section 6 of POCSO Act against the accused persons beyond all
reasonable doubts. The accused persons, therefore, acquitted of the charge on
benefit of doubts and they are set at liberty.

28. Return the seized article to the person from whom it was seized after expiry of
the appeal period.

29. The accused persons are in judicial custody. So, they are allowed to go bail of
Rs. 10,000/ each with a surety of like amount in default they will remain in jail
for next six months as per provision of section 437-A Cr. P. C.

30. Given under my hand and seal of this Court today the 10" day of October 2018.

—: ‘

(D. Thakuria)
S pSpecial Judge,
Dhubri.

18

a

 

aes
 

Special Case No. 03 of 2018

De cash ates a re

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: DHUBRI.

SPECIAL CASE NO: 03/2018

UNDER SECTIONS: 366-A/376-D IPC READ WITH SECTIOM 6 OF
THE POCSO ACT.

STATE OF ASSAM
VS.
EYAJUL ALI & ANOTHER

APPENDIX

a A. Prosecution exhibits:

  

Ext. 1 : Ejahar.
Ext. 2 Medical report.
: ss : oe Ext. 3&4 : Sketch maps of place of occurrence.
is Ext. 5 Seizure list.
Ext. 6 : Charge sheet.
M. Ext. 1 ; Birth Certificate of the victim.
B. Defence Exhibits : Nil.

C. Court Exhibits
Ext 7 : Statement of the victim.

D. Prosecution Witnesses:

P.W. 1: Complainant.

P.W.2: Victim.
4 9 P. W.3: Abdul Mazid Sheikh. .
ee as
- ysdd® * P.W.4: Abdul Rahim Talukdar.

ene. VN
oY ww
Oo 19

 

 
