IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, BAJALI,
PATHSALA

Spl. POCSO Case No. 16 of 2018
U/S - 457 and 366/511 IPC.

State
- Versus -

Junab Ali
: Accused person.

Present :
Sri L.K. Saikia, AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, Bajali, Pathsala.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Smti. Dhira Devi Ld. Addl. P. P.
For the accused persons : Sri Giridhar Choudhury, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidences: 21-11-2019.

Date of recording statements u/s 313 CrP.C. : 21-11-2019.

Date of Argument : 21-11-2019
Date of Judgment : 21-11-2019.

J] UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that, one Amir Hamza
lodged an ejahar on 06/08/2018 with the I/C Dhumarpathar Out Post
alleging, interalia, that on 01/08/2018 at around 12.30 am one Junab
Ali entered into his house and committed rape on his daughter Anisa
Khatun. At the time when the incident occurred his daughter is a minor
aged about 15 years. The incident was caught red handed by the
village people and villagers advised him to settle the matter amicably
and made an agreement where it is mentioned that Junab Ali is to
marry his daughter when she atttain the age of majority but the family
members of Junab Ali had refused it. Hence, this case.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, Dnumarpathar OP registered a

Page No. 1 of 6
GD Entry No. 80 dated 06/08/2018 and forwarded the same to
Patacharkuchi Police Station to register a case under proper section of
law and accordingly it was registered as Patacharkuchi P. S. Case No.
522/18 u/s 457 IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. During investigation police visited the place of occurrence,
prepared sketch map of the place of occurrence, recorded the
statements of witnesses including the victim girl, conducted medical
examination of the victim, produced her before the Court wherein the
Ld. Magistrate recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC, and after
completion of investigation, having been found prima-facie case, the
I/O filed charge sheet u/s 457 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012
against the accused person. Thereafter, the accused was arrested and
sent before the Trial Court.

4. On being summoned the accused person entered his
appearance and copies were furnished to him and after hearing the
learned Addl. P. PB appearing for the State and the learned defence
counsel and after perusal of materials available on record u/s 173
Cr.P.C., having been found sufficient grounds for presuming that the
accused person has committed the offence, framed the formal charge
457/366/511 IPC. The charge so framed was read over and explained
to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to
be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined
altogether 2 (two) PWs i.e. the informant and the victim. The Ld. Addl.
PP submits that the vital material witnesses have already been
examined and there is no chance of further development of the
prosecution story and hence, prays to close the prosecution evidence.

6. Heard the Ld. Addl. PP appearing for the state. Perused
the case record and considering the submission put forwarded by the
Ld. Addl. PP the evidence of prosecution side is closed.

7. The defence plea is of total denial. The accused person
was examined u/s 313 of Cr. P C. wherein he denied all such
allegations leveled against him by the prosecution witnesses. The

Page No. 2 of 6
defence side has not adduced any defence evidence.

8. Heard argument of learned Addl. P. PB and the learned

defence counsel.
9. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person on 01/08/2018 at about 12.30 night
entered the house of the informant and thereby committed an
offence punishable u/s 457 IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same, date and place tried
to kidnap the victim/daughter of informant while she was
sleeping at her house with intent that she maybe compelled to
marry against her will and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s 366/511 IPC

EVIDENCE OF THE WITNESSES

10. PW 1 Amir Hamja deposed that on the day of the incident a
marriage ceremony was also going on in front of their house and heard
hue and cry on the road. Hearing it he came from home and went to the
courtyard of their house and saw that his son Sanowar gave a Slap to his
daughter and thereafter took her back to home. After some time he came
to know from villagers that Junab was standing in the dark along with his
daughter on the road for that he convened a village mel at their house. In
the mel Junab and his parents were also present and in the said village mel
Junab was asked to marry with his daughter as they had love affairs. But
jonab had refused to marry his daughter. As the accused person had
refused to marry with his daughter so, after 4 to 5 days he lodged the FIR
against him.

In cross-examination, PW 1 deposed that he does not know
the contention of the FIR. He had lodged the FIR as instructed by the
police. AS a marriage ceremony was going on in front of their house and
there so many boys and girls were enjoying the marriage even his
daughter too. The accused person did not do any bad works with his
daughter. Nothing had happened as written in the FIR.

11. PW 2 victim girl deposed that before 6 (six) months of the

Page No. 3 of 6
happening of the incident she got introduced with the accused Md. Junab
Ali. On the day of the incident she was in a marriage ceremony which was
going on in front of their house. On that night at about 12 midnight while
she was talking with the accused Md. Junab Ali in front of the marriage hall
then her brother Soleman noticed them and seeing them together, her
brother gave her a slap and took her to the house from there and her
father had also seen the occurrence. On that night a village mel was going
on wherein accused Junab Ali and his parents had refused to take her as
she was about 16 years. So, villagers advised Junab to take her when she
get the age of majority. Thereafter her father lodged an FIR and after that
police recorded her statement, sent her to FAAMCH, Barpeta for medical
examination and thereafter produced her before the Court wherein the
Magistrate had recorded her statement. Ext. 1 is her statement and Ext.
1(i) & Ext. 1(ii) are her signatures.

In cross-examination, PW 2 stated that she had love affairs
with accused Junab Ali so, they were talking while she met him in the
marriage ceremony. Accused Junab Ali did not do any misbehave to her.
On the day of the incident Junab did not come to their house to meet her
even he did not tell her to go with him except talking nothing had
happened in between them. Her father lodged the FIR as instigated by the

villagers.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS, AND REASONS THEREOF

 

12. Perused the case record and also gone through the
provision of law.

13. PW 2 the informant stated that on the day of the incident
there was nothing happened so he has no objection if the accused
person would be released from this case. The victim PW 1 in her
evidence stated that she has a love affairs with accused Junab Ali and
so they were talking while they met in a marriage ceremony in front of
her house. Accused Junab Ali did not do any misbehave to her. On the
day of the incident accused Junab did not come to her house to meet
her even he did not tell her to go with him except talking. Nothing had
happened between them as stated in the FIR. Her father lodged the
FIR as instigated by the villagers.

Page No. 4 of 6
14. On precise analysis and scrutiny of evidence on record, it
is found that the instant case has been arisen due to misunderstanding
of the fact. On the day of incident the victim met with the accused
voluntarily as she loves the accused since long prior to this incident.
The FIR was lodged by the informant as per instigation of the villagers.
He has no any personal knowledge about the contention of the FIR. The
informant also stated that he has got no any objection, if the accused
person would be released from the liability of the case. The entire case

is based upon misunderstanding of the fact.

15. In view of above, it can be safely concluded that the
prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused person as

required under the law.

16. Accordingly, the accused Junab Ali is acquitted of the
offences charged u/s 457 and 366/511 IPC and set him at liberty
forthwith.

17. The bail bond of the accused person is extended for
further period of another 6 (six) months u/s 437 (A) Cr.PC.C

18. A copy of this judgment be given to the District Magistrate,
Barpeta u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

19. The Sessions Case is disposed of accordingly.

20. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court in
presence of both the parties and | put my hand and seal of this Court
on this 21st day of November, 2019.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
Dictated & Corrected
by me

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Page No. 5 of 6
APPENDIX :-

Oral evidences :-
PW-1 Md. Amir Hamja
PW-2. victim.

Documentary evidence :-

Ext. 1 - Statement.

Defence evidence.
NIL

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Page No. 6 of 6
