Page 1 of 17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel forthe Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

18 OF 2015
(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 1021 of
2015)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS

Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Bijay Karmakar
Son of Late Salem, Karmakar
Resident of Sessa.kherbari line
Police Station — Tezpur,
Dist:- Sonitpur,,Assam
19/08/2015

26/11/2015, 01/08/2016,
03/08/2016 & 18/03/2017.

26/04/2017

01/06/2017
13/06/2017

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Smt. Dulumoni Sinha, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Bijay Karmakar is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that on 07-05-

2015 in the morning accused enticing informant’s minor daughter from

the Rangapara Railway station. On the said night accused taken
Page 2 of 17

informant’s minor daughter to Naharbari Tea Estate and committed rape
on her. Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by informant
Sri Bipul Deka before the O/C of Rangapara Police Station on 08-05-
2015.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, the O/C of Rangapara Police station
registered a case being Rangapara PS Case No. 41/15 u/s 366-A/376(1)
of IPC read with section 4 of Special POCSO Act, 2012. After completion
of usual investigation, the O/C Rangapara Police Station sent up the
accused for trial by filing charge sheet u/s 366-A/376(1). of IPC read
with section 4 of Special POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused Sri Bijay

Karmakar.

4. On being produced the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, my learned predecessor-in-court framed charge under
section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused and particulars of
the charge was read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads

not guilty and claims to.be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined seven numbers
of witnesses. After ‘completion of prosecution evidence, accused was
examined«u/s 313 Gr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused
and evidence\appears against the accused are put before him for
explanation»where he denied the evidence and allegation and declined

to give defence evidence.

6. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of
both the parties.

7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) “Whether on 07-05-2015, at night at Naharani Tea
Estate under Rangapara Police Station, the accused
committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim Miss X
(8 years) and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 6 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act?

 
Page 3 of 17

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence

on record.

9. PW 1, Dr. Tutumoni Handique deposed that on 09-05-2015 she
was posted as working as Medical & Health Officer-1 in the Kanaklata
Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at about 1.30 p.m. in the labour
room complex of KCH, he examined Mamoni Deka, 8 years, female, D/O
Bipul Deka of village Majbat Lamabari, Line No. 3, PS Majbat, Dist.
Udalguri, in reference to Rangapara PS Case NO. 41/25. u/s 366
A/376(1) of IPC r/w Section 4 of the Special POGSO Act, 2012, on being
escorted and identified by Woman Police Constable 610 Anju Moni Dutta
vide Hospital registration No. 9283. She.was.examined in presence of
GNM Benedicta K Langa. On examination shefound the following:
Height — 116 cm., Weight - 18 Kg, Teeth — 6 in all four
quadrants mixed denture. Average built, normal gait. Secondary sexual
characters were not developed. Bruise seen in inner thigh. Hymen

present. No other injuries seen.
Investigations advised and reports-

tVaginal smear for spermatozoa — no sperm. Done at
KCH Laboratory, Lab No. 51/15.

2.X-ray for age determination — Age of the person under
investigation appears to below 12 years. Done at Assam
X-ray Clinical & Laboratory, Radiologist — Dr. P. K.

Barman.
OPINION:

1. No sign and symptom suggestive of sexual intercourse.
2. Bruise seen on inner part of thigh.

3. Age of the victim is below 12 years.

 
Page 4 of 17

Ext. 1 is the Medical Report and Ext. 1(1) is her signature. Ext. 2
is the advice slip and Ext. 2(1) is her signature. Ext. 3 is the police
requisition received by her and Ext. 3(1) is her signature. Ext. 4 is the X-
ray report with plates and Ext. 4 (1) is the signature of Dr. P.K. Barman,

Radiologist, which is known to her. Ext. 5 is the Laboratory report.

In cross-examination, the doctor has admitted that the injury on

the inner thigh caused to victim may be caused by any object.

10. PW 2 Sri Sambrata Barman has stated that on 08-05-2015, at
about 5.30 p.m. he was on duty at Nahorani Tea Estate. At.that time
Jitendra was doing duty in the Bungalow of the Manager of the Tea
Garden. At about 5.30 p.m., they saw an Old man, was going with a
minor girl and the minor girl was crying. On.seeing them the girl told
them that the old man had done bad acts\withsher. The old man tried to
escape however they apprehended him and later on the tea garden
labourers informed about thexincident to Senior Manager of Nahorani
Tea Estate. The accused standing»in the dock of the court today is the

said old man. He did not know his name.

In cross-. examination, he admitted that their camp is infront of
the Bungalow on the other side of the road. On the southern side of the
camp there,are about 4 houses of the tea garden labourers. There is no
road.on back side of their camp. On the back side of the camp, there is
tea\garden. When the girl told them about the incident only three of

them namely, myself, Jitendra and Sonaram were present.

11. PW 3 Sri Jiten Roy, stated before the court that he knows the
accused. About 6 months ago, in the evening, he was on duty at
Nahorani Tea Estate. At that time he saw an old man was going with a
minor girl and the minor girl was crying. On seeing him, the girl told
them that the old man had done bad acts with her. The old man tried to
escape however they apprehended him and later on the tea garden
labourers informed about the incident to Senior Manager of Nahorani

Tea Estate. He did not know his name.

 
Page 5 of 17

In cross- examination, he admitted that police took his
statement. He also admitted that for the first time he has stated before
the court that “J saw an old man was going with a minor girl and the
minor girl was crying. On seeing me the girl told us that the old man
had done bad acts with her. The old man tried to escape however we
apprehended him and later on the tea garden labourers informed about

the incident to Senior Manager of Nahorani Tea Estate.”

12. PW 4 Sri Sonaram Saikia stated that he knows. the, accused.
About 6 months ago, in the evening, he was on duty at.Nahorani Tea
Estate. At that time he saw the accused was going with a minor girl
and the minor girl was crying. On seeing themsthe girl told them that
the old man had done bad acts with her» The old man tried to escape
however they apprehended him and, later on they handed over the
accused and the girl to the Manager )of Nahorani Tea Estate. He does

not know the name of the girl or the accused.

In cross-examination he admitted that the distance between
their camp and labour quarters is about half furlong, but there are four
houses near our camp. I did not know about the old man and the girl.

He did.not see.the incident himself.

13. ~ PW 5, the victim stated that on the night of day of incident, she
along»with her father and mother were in Rangapara Railway station.
On the said night a boy has assaulted her father. The accused took her
from the railway station by giving her biscuit and took her outside the
railway station towards a Tea estate. Inside the tea garden the accused
put off her pant. Accused also put off his pant and inserted his penis
into her private parts upon the blanket. Before doing that thing accused
threatened her to cut her stomach, then the accused kept her under a
tree. In the morning time, while she came to her parents, police
recovered her. She identified the accused in the court that this is the

person who has committed bad act to her. From the police station she

 
Page 6 of 17

was taken to Tezpur Hospital through a woman constable. Her
statement was recorded through the Magistrate. From the hospital she
was taken to State Home.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestion the evidence as to at the relevant time accused
took her to a nearby garden from the railway station by giving her
biscuit where accused removing her pant and his pant committed sexual

intercourse with her upon a blanket has remained unchallenged.

14. PW 6M. Sharma, learned Judicial Magistrate, stated thaton 11-
05-2015 she was working as Judicial Magistrate, 1° class, Tezpur and
on that day victim was produced before her. from.Rangapara PS in
connection with Rangapara PS case No. 41/15.u/s 376(1)/366(A) of the
IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act for recording her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C The victim was produced before the,Incharge Magistrate on 09-
05-2015 with a prayer that the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C
needs to be recorded. The victim was identified and brought by WPC
610 Anjumoni Dutta. Since\the victim was a minor the Incharge
Magistrate sent her to*State Home at Nagaon for reflection period of
two days. Accordingly,,on 11-05-2015 again the victim was produced
before her.and after complying with the necessary formalities under the
provisions of law, she recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 6 is
the GR case No. 1021/15. Ext. 6(1) is the order passed by Incharge
learned »magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur Miss J. Borah. Ext. 6(2) is the
signature of Incharge Magistrate J. Borah which is known to her. Ext.
6(3) is her order and Ext. 6(4) is her signature. Ext. 7 is the statement
of the victim recorded by her and Ext. 7(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination she admitted that she recorded the
statement of the victim. She was a student of class “Ka” standard. She
has also admitted that from the statement of the victim it appears that
she was a minor of 8 years old. But no certificate has been given as to

she was a minor though she was a student of class “Ka” standard.

 
Page 7 of 17

15. =PW 7 Sri Lakhi Kanta Borah, SI of police stated against you that
on 08-05-2015 he was posted as SI of police of Rangapara Police
station and on that day O/C Rangapara PS Inspector Md. Azizur Rahman
received an ejahar from one Bipul Deka. After registering a case he was
entrusted to investigate the case. The O/C has registered the case vide
Rangapara PS case No. 41/15u/s 366(A)/376(1) of the IPC r/w section 4
of the POCSO Act. Ext. 8 is the ejahar and Ext. 8(1) is the signature of
the then O/C of Rangapara PS Inspector Md. Azizur“Rahman.
Complainant of this case was died. During investigation, he recorded the
statement of the complainant and also recorded the.statement of the
victim. Next day, he went to the place of occurrence which is backside
of the Manager’s Bungalow of Naharani Tea Estate. He prepared the
sketch map vide Ext. 9 and Ext. 9(1) is his signature. Then he sent the
victim to hon’ble court for recording her\statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On
09-05-2015 he arrested the accused and forwarded him to the court. On
the said day, he sent the victim. to )KCH, Tezpur for treatment. After
collecting the medical report and*after completion of investigation, he
filed the charge-sheet against the accused u/s 366(A)/376(1) IPC r/w
section 4 of theySpecial POCSO Act. Ext. 10 is the chargesheet and Ext.
10(1) is his.signature.

Though. he has been exposed to long cross-examination but the
evidence as*to after due investigation he filed the chargesheet against
thevaccused Bijay Karmakar u/s 366-A/376(1) of IPC read with section 4
of Special POCSO Act, 2012 has remained unchallenged.

16. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence

plea is total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

17. Ihave heard the arguments put forwarded by learned counsel of
both the parties.

18. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, other

than the victim none has stated about the alleged incident. But the

 
Page 8 of 17

statement of the victim cannot be reliable because she has not made
such statement to the I.O. what she stated in the court. Therefore, her
statement is totally contradictory. Secondly, though the complainant
who is the father of the victim was died but the prosecution has failed
to examine even the mother of the victim. According to the victim just
before the incident, she was sleeping with her father and mother at the
Railway station and after her missing, the parents of the victim
vigorously searched and then her father filed the ejahar. Non
examination of mother of the victim is a major lacuna on the.part of the
prosecution. Thirdly, in the present case according to.PW 3°GQiten Roy)
in the evening of the day of incident while he was on duty in the
Bungalow of the Manager of the Tea garden, at.about 5.30 p.m. they
saw an old man was going with a minor girl. while the minor girl was
crying. On seeing him, the girl told them thatthe old man had done bad
acts with her. On the other hand; PW.3 admitted that he has not made
such statement before the _I.0. while his statement was recorded u/s
161 Cr.P.C. Therefore, the statement cannot be relied on because that
vital contradictions. Fourthly, if the minor girl is really raped by the
accused then it.is*expected to receive injury on her person atleast in her
private parts. Law,is well settled that if the victim is unwilling to yield to
sexual, she is expected to receive injuries on her person. The absence
of injuries on the body of the prosecutrix, generally, gives rise to an
inference that she was consenting party to coitus. Here in the present
case, ‘the doctor found no such injury on the private parts of the victim.
There is no any instances of bleeding from the private parts though
doctor found some bruise seen in the inner part of the thigh of the
victim. But that may be caused by any object or a sudden falling on a
substance. Besides, there is an admission of victim that while she was
taken by the accused to the place of occurrence by walking she
sustained hurt upon her leg. Therefore, the aforesaid bruise may be
occurred due to said hurt. Fifthly, no doubt, the informant who is the
father of the victim was died so it is not expected for the prosecution to

examine him to prove the FIR. In the FIR the informant has put his

 
Page 9 of 17

thumb impression as he was illiterate but the prosecution has failed to
examine the scribe of the ejahar at least to prove the FIR. Sixthly, the
I.0. has failed to seize any of the wearing apparels of the victim. The
I.0. even failed to seize the alleged blanket upon which she was alleged
to have been forcefully sexual intercourse by the accused. Seventhly,
according to the FIR, the victim was enticing by accused at the morning
time and she was committed rape in the Naharani Tea Estate. But,
according to the victim on the night of the incident, her father was
assaulted by some boys and accused took her in luring to give-biscuit at
the night then accused took her to a tea garden, where. she was
committed rape upon a blanket. Therefore, the,evidencexas to time of
taking and enticing the victim with a lure to givesher biscuit is quite
different in between FIR and statement of ‘victim. Therefore, the
evidence of victim as to taking her by the,accused is quite contradictory
to the FIR. Eighthly, according to the.victim the accused was unknown
to her. He was not even knownsto her parents. At the time of taking
her, her parents was sleeping».But there is no any evidence that she
raised protest or woke up her parents while accused attempted to take
her. Lastly, the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. reveals that the
victim made her statement voluntarily but learned magistrate no where
certified “that “or mentioned that the victim made her statement
voluntarily and the learned Magistrate could not able to obtain the
signature of the victim as she was student of class “Ka” but that has not

been stated neither in the statement nor in any order.

19. Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond all
shadow of doubt, as such, accused is required to be convicted under the

charged section of law.

20. ‘To fortify the submissions, learned Public prosecutor has

submitted the following case laws:-

(1) State of U.P. Vs. Krishna Master and Others reported in 2010
Crl.L.J. 3889,

 
Page 10 of 17

(2) Benu Namusudra Vs. State of U.P. reported in 2010 Crl.L.J.
781 and

(3) Rajendra Dutta Zarekar Vs. State of Goa reported in 2008
Crl.L.J. 710.

21. I have thoroughly perused the case laws cited by the learned

Public prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

22. Keeping in mind the argument advanced by learned counsels of

both sides, I am going to dispose of the case.

23. A close scrutiny of the record, it appears that there issonly one

eye witness i.e. the victim PW 5.

24. The law is settled that the main evidence in all such cases is that
of the victim herself. In practice a conviction, for rape almost entirely
depends on the credibility of the woman, so far as the essential
ingredients are concerned, ;the ‘other evidence being merely
corroborative. It is not necessary. that there should be independent
corroboration of every material, circumstance in the sense that the
independent evidence _in the case, apart from the testimony of the
complainant, should. in,itself be sufficient to sustain conviction. All that is
required isethat there must be some additional evidence rendering it
probable that the.story of the complainant is true and that is reasonable
safe to.act upon. The evidence, no doubt, should not only make it safe
to..believe that the crime was committed but must in some way
reasonably connect or tend to connect the accused with the crime.

Corroboration may be by facts and circumstances.

25. Now, the question comes how far the evidence of the victim in

the instant case is reliable and convincible to convict the accused.

Coming to the present case, according to the victim, the
occurrence took place on or about two years ago. At night, she along
with her father and mother were in Rangapara Railway station. On the
said night a boy had assaulted her father. Then the accused took her

with a lure to give her biscuit towards one garden of Rangapara.

 
Page 11 of 17

Accused in the garden by opening his pant and her pant inserted his
private parts into her private parts upon a blanket. Before the said
incident, accused threatened her to assault on her stomach and kept
her under a tree. In the morning time, accused took her with intent to
hand over to her parents but police apprehended them. She identified

the accused before this court.

Learned counsel for the accused submitted that though the
victim vividly described the whole incident of committing penetrative
Sexual intercourse in the court but in her statement before.the I.0. she
did not state so. She simply stated that she along with her parents used
to stay at Railway station for two days. On that day»she was called by
an old man with a lure to give her biscuit), took her to a garden and
committed misdeed to her. She heard\that the name of the said old
man is Bijay. Therefore, there isa clear contradiction in the statement
made by the victim in between u/s 161°Cr.P.C. and the statement made
before the court. No doubt, the victim in her statement made u/s 164
Cr.P.C., clearly stated.what she has stated in the Court.

26. ‘This is a case u/s 6 of the POCSO Act, so, the essence of charge
of the case is penetrative sexual assault to the victim. Though the victim
stated before the court about the penetrative sexual assault but she
made ‘no such‘statement before the Investigating Officer, therefore, the
statement made before the court by the victim cannot be stated to be
minor contradictions.

27» On the other hand, law is well settled that if the victim is
unwilling to yield to sexual intercourse, she is expected to receive
injuries on her parts. The absence of injuries on the body of the
prosecutrix, generally, gives rise to an inference that she was
consenting party to coitus. Where the prosecutrix had received multiple
injuries on the various parts of her body it indicated that she offered
resistance when she was subjected to sexual intercourse.

But here in the instant case, the statement of the victim is silent
that she sustained any injury on her private parts. But, the doctor who

examined the victim immediately after the incident opined that - (i) No
Page 12 of 17

sign and symptom suggestive of sexual intercourse, (ii) Bruise seen on
inner part of thigh and (iii) Age of the victim is below 12 years. But
according to the learned counsel for the accused as admitted by victim
that while she was alleged to be taken by the accused to the place of
occurrence on foot she sustained hurt in her leg. Therefore, the bruise
seen in the inner thigh of the victim by the doctor cannot be ruled out

that has occurred when she was taken by the accused on walk.

Learned counsel for the prosecution submitted that according to
the PW 2 while he was on duty on or about 5.30 p.m. of 08-05-2015 at
Naharani Tea Estate he along with one Jitendra saw an old man was
going with a minor girl and the minor girl was..crying. On seeing them,
the girl told them that the old man had done bad acts with her. The old
man tried to escape however, they apprehended him and later on the
tea garden labourers informed about the incident to Sr. Manager of
Nahorani Tea Estate. He recognized the accused before this court. But
according to the charge the alleged*incident took place at night of 07-
05-2015. There is no any evidence that accused took the victim from the
night of 07-05-2015 “to~5 p.m. of 08-05-2015 i.e. about one day.
Therefore, the minor girl Seen by PW 2 with the accused may not be the
victim of this, casew That apart the victim herself stated that in the
morning time accused took her with intent to hand over her to her
parents then police apprehended. But nowhere she stated that Jiten Roy
or any person apprehended the accused and she stated to them that

accused committed misdeed to her at 5.30 p.m.

PW 3 Sri Jiten Roy stated that on or about 6 months ago in the
evening he was on duty at Nahorani Tea Estate. At that time he saw an
old man was going with a minor girl and the minor girl was crying. On
seeing him, the girl told them that the old man had done bad acts with
her. The old man tried to escape however they apprehended him and
later on the tea garden labourers informed about the incident to Senior
Manager of Nahorani Tea Estate. But he admitted in cross-examination

that he has made such statement for the first time in the court.

 
Page 13 of 17

Therefore, the aforesaid statement made by PW 3 is contradictory as

because he did not made such statement in earlier.

Here in the present case, the another prosecution witness is PW
4 who stated that about six months ago in the evening he was on duty
at Nahorani Tea Estate. At that time he saw the accused was going with
a minor girl and the minor girl was crying. On seeing them the girl told
them that the old man had done bad acts with her. The old man. tried to
escape however they apprehended him and later on they handed. over
the accused and the girl to the Manager of Nahorani Tea Estate. But the
prosecution has categorically failed to adduce the said Manager of
Nahorani Tea Estate to prove that he has taken.custody of said old man
(accused) with the girl. Besides that PW4 could identify neither the
accused nor the victim girl. Therefore, the statement of PW 4 cannot be

used by the prosecution to convict the accused.

28. Another point is to be discussed in the present case as raised by
learned counsel for the accused is that according to the FIR, the
accused has taken the victim from the Railway station in the morning of
07-05-2015 butsaecording to the victim she was taken by the accused at
night from_the railway station. Therefore, the time of taking the victim

by the accused*is quite contradictory to the FIR.

29... In Boya Gangaram Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh reported in
AIR.1976 SC 1541, it has been held that -

“minor contradictions are bound to appear when ignorant and
illiterate women are giving evidence. Even in case of trained and
educated persons, memory sometimes plays false and this would be
much more so in case of ignorant and rustic women. It must also be
remembered that the evidence given by a witness would very much
depend upon his power of observation and it is possible that some
aspects of an incident may be observed by one witness while they
may not be witnesses by another though both are present at the
scene of offence.”

But mentioning of different time of taking the victim by the accused to

commit the offence in between her statement and with the FIR cannot

 
Page 14 of 17

be stated to be a minor contradiction as this is a case under section
POCSO Act. As such, due to such difference of time of taking the victim
to the place of occurrence by the accused in the statement of victim and

in FIR, discredit the statement of the victim.

30. The another point raised by the learned counsel for the
accused is that according to the prosecution story at night of the day of
incident, she was sleeping with the father and mother at the Rangapara
Railway station. From Rangapara Railway station accused, took the
victim with a lure to give her biscuit. According to the victim, prior to
the incident accused is not known to her. He is a stranger to her, but
she raised no protest while accused alleged to.have taken her. Besides,
prosecution has failed to produce the mother ‘of the victim. Here in the
present case, the informant who is the father of the victim was died
during the trial of the case but I.Q. has failed to examine the mother of
the victim. Even I.0. failed to explain why he did not record the
statement of the mother of, the minor girl. Non examination of the
mother of the victim_without*assigning any reason is also a lacuna on

the part of the prosecution.

31. Another point as raised by learned counsel for the accused is
that the I.Owhas.failed to seize the wearing apparels of the victim which
was wearing by the victim at the relevant point of time. That apart, the
1.0. has failed to seize the blanket upon which the accused alleged to
be committed penetrative sexual assault to the victim. If the I.0. has
collected or seized the wearing apparels of the victim or the blanket
upon which the accused alleged to have been committed penetrative
sexual assault to the victim, prosecution case would be more stronger
but I.0. has failed to do so.

32. In view of the aforesaid reasons, the only statement of the
victim cannot be stated to be an unambiguous, reliable, convincing or

sufficient to convict the accused.

 
Page 15 of 17

33. As discussed herein before, the solitary evidence of the
prosecutrix did not appear to be cogent and reliable, therefore, the
accused is entitled to get the benefit of doubt.

34. On careful perusal of the whole case record and as details
discussed hereinbefore, I am bound to hold that the prosecution has
categorically failed to prove the alleged charge against the accused
beyond any reasonable doubt. Hence, the accused Sri Bijay Karmakar is
acquitted on benefit of doubt and set him at liberty forthwith.

35. The liabilities of the bailor is hereby discharged.

36. Regarding compensation to the victima the Hon’ble Supreme
Court in the case of Laxmi Kant Pandey — Vs- Union of India,
(1984) 2 SCC 244 held that the child is.a soul with a bearing, a nature
and capacities of its own, who must be ‘helped to find them, to grow
into their maturity, into fullness*of physical and vital energy and the
utmost breath, depth and height of its emotional intellectual and
spiritual being, otherwise there cannot be a healthy growth of the
nation. Now obviously children need special protection because of their
tender age and,physique, mental immaturity and incapacity to look after
themselves...Thatiis why there is a growing realization in every part of
the globe, that*children must be brought up in an atmosphere of love
andvaffection and under the tender care and attention of parents so that
they may be able to attain full emotional, intellectual and spiritual
Stability and maturity and acquire self-confidence and self-respect and a
balance view of life with full appreciation and realization of the role
which they have to play in the nation building process without which the
nation cannot develop and attain real prosperity because a large
segment of the society would then be left out of the developmental
process. To compensate the trauma faced by the victim in this case, I
think an amount of Rs. 50,000/- is allowed as a victim compensation to
the victim of this case. I hereby direct learned Secretary, District Legal
Aid Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur, to grant compensation to the
tune of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty thousand) only to the victim. The

 
Page 16 of 17

said amount shall be used for her welfare and rehabilitation, under the

supervision of Social Welfare.

Send a copy of this Judgment to Secretary, District Legal Aid

Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

37. Let the G.R Case No. 1021/15 be sent to Ld. committal Court

along with a copy of this Judgment.

38. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 13" day
of June, 2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken.and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
ot > BT Go

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4
Exhibit 5
Exhibit 6

Exhibit 7
Cr.P.C

Exhibit 8
Exhibit.9
Exhibit 10

Page 17 of 17

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- Dr. Tutumoni Handique, MO

i= Sri Sambrata Barman.

- Sri Jiten Roy.

= Sri Jonaram Saikia.

i Victim.

- Smt.M. Sharma, Judicial Magistrate.
i= Sri Lakhi Kanta Bora, I.O.

EXHIBITS.

- Medical report;

‘- advice slip

:- police requisition.

'- X-ray report with plates.
= Laboratory report.

- GR Case record 1021/15.

:- statement of the victim u/s 164

= Ejahar
- sketch map

- Chargesheet.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
