IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON ::: ASSAM.

Special (POCSO) Case No.06(N)/2018
U/S 6 of the POCSO Act.

State
- Versus -

Atul Saikia
: Accused person.

Present :
Shri P.P. Bairagi, AJS
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Mr. M.J. Neog, Ld. Special P.P.
For the accused : Smt. Sahina Khanam, Ld. Advocate.
Charge framed on : 10-05-2018.
Evidence recorded on : 29-10-18, 25-03-19, 12-06-19, 22-08-19 &
05-12-19.
Date of Argument : 29/02/2020 & 06-03-2020

Date of Judgment : 07/03/2020.
UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution in brief is that the informant who
is the father of the victim of this case filed First Information Report
(hereinafter referred to as FIR) before the Officer-in-charge of Kachua
Police Station on 30/05/2017 stating inter alia that accused Atul Saikia
called the informant's minor daughter 'X' (11/12 years of age) to his
(accused person's) house for cooking rice and at around 11 p.m, the
accused forcefully committed penetrative sexual assault upon her
causing grievous injury on her private parts. The accused also
threatened her not to disclose about the occurrence to others.

2. On receipt of the said First Information Report, Kachua Police
Station Case No.-124/2017 was registered u/s-4 of the POCSO Act. After
investigation, Charge Sheet was submitted against accused Atul Saikia
u/s-6 of the POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of accused Atul Saikia before this court, copy
was furnished to him and he was charged u/s-6 of the POCSO Act by
the learned Special Judge, Nagaon (Sessions Judge, Nagaon). The
accused person pleaded not guilty when the charge was read over and
explained to him.

4. During the trial, the prosecution has examined 5(five)
witnesses including the informant and the victim of the case and
closed the evidence. Accused was examined U/S 313 CrPC and he
declined to adduce evidence.

5 | have heard learned counsels for both sides and perused the
record.
6. Now the point for determination is as follows :-
Whether in the month of May, 2017, the accused committed

aggravated penetrative sexual assault with victim 'X' as alleged ?

7. Decisions and reasons for decision:

Now let me appreciate the evidence on record.

Prosecution Witness-1(hereinafter referred to as PW), is the
father of the victim and informant of the case. He deposed that on the
day of incident he went to another village for the purpose of work then
he got an information over phone that his daughter i.e. victim had
been suffering from stomach pain, he went back to his home and he
saw 4/5 co-villagers. His daughter was keeping mum. On being asked
by the wife of this witness the victim has reported that she suffered
from stomach pain and sustained injuries on her urinal track. This
witness further revealed that prior to 10 days of his getting
information, his daughter went to this witness sister's house for the
purpose of cooking, as such he suspected his brother in-law Atul Saikia
who might commit the incident. Therefore, this witness filed FIR which
is marked as Ext.1 Ext.1(1) is his signature. During the investigation
medical examination of his daughter was done through police and the
statement of the victim was also recorded by Magistrate.

During his cross-examination he deposed that his daughter
did not inform him about the incident from the date of her service with
her aunty's house till filing of the ejahar. Earlier also his daughter went
to the house of the accused and helped them in their house. He had
suspicion over the accused and due to the pressure of the villagers he
filed the FIR.

8. PW-2 is the victim 'X' (name withheld) to the case deposed
that informant is her father and accused is her uncle (peha). She
4

deposed that one morning during her urinating she fell discomfort and
her mother asked about it. Her mother questioned her as to whether
something was happened while she was working in the house of
accused. Out of fear she replied to her mother that accused committed
bad things with her. When the matter was come to knowledge of her
father then he filed FIR against the accused. During investigation her
medical examination was done. She also gave her statement U/s 164
CrPC. Ext.2 is the statement U/s 164 CrPC. Ext.2(1), 2(3) are her
signatures.

During her cross-examination she deposed that she had not
reported anything to anyone. Out of fear she gave statement in the
court. She further deposed that accused was not involved in
committing any bad things with her.

9. PW-3 deposed that the incident took place about 2 years
ago. Some people were gathered in the house of the informant and this
witness also went to that place. She got the information that accused
committed bad things with the victim few days ago.

During cross-examination she deposed that accused is the
uncle of the victim and she has no idea if the case is filed out of
suspicion.

10. PW-4 is the mother of the victim deposed that the incident
occurred in the year 2017 in the month of May. She noticed that her
daughter was feeling discomfort during urinating. Prior to that her
daughter went to the house of accused 10 days ago and this witness
suspected that accused had committed some bad things with her
daughter, so matter was informed to her husband who filed the case.

During her cross-examination she deposed that she came to
know that accused was not involved in any bad activities with her
daughter.

11. PW-5 is th Medical Officer who examined the victim on
31-05-17 in connection with this case. And upon examination of the
5

victim the doctor is of opinion that there is recent evidence of sexual
assault (raped), there is recent injury to her private parts (hymen
absent), age 15-16 years according to radiologist.

12. From the evidence of the PWs more particularly from the
evidence of the victim, it can be said that she has not implicated the
accused about commission of aggravated penetrative sexual assault
upon her. She has only deposed that out of fear she reported that
accused committed bad things with her. The word bad things cannot be
termed as rape or aggravated penetrative sexual assault. From the
evidence of PW-1 it can be said that out of suspicion and out of public
pressure he filed the FIR against the accused person. From the
evidence of PW-1 it can be said that he has nowhere deposed that
victim has reported him about the aggravated penetrative sexual
assault caused by accused. The victim has also nowhere deposed that
she reported the matter to her father. From the evidence of PW-3, it
can be said that she has also nowhere deposed that accused had
committed sexual assault upon the victim and the matter was reported
to her by the victim herself. From her evidence it can be said that she
has nowhere mentioned about the source of information from whom
she could know about the involvement of the accused with the alleged
offence. From the evidence of PW-4, it can be said that she also out of
suspicion at first implicated the accused with the alleged offence, but
during her cross-examination she clear the fact that accused was not
involved with the alleged offence.

13. Though the doctor has given evidence to the effect that he
found injuries upon the private parts of the victim (raped) but his
opinion cannot be the sole basis for convicting an accused, if evidence
of the victim, other independent witnesses are remained silent
regarding the involvement of the accused with the alleged offence.
That apart the Medical Officer has nowhere maintained the history of
the case. Having considered the insufficient materials on record, | am
of the view that it is not a fit case to convict the accused person.
6

Though the Learned predecessor in office has dispensed with the
examination of accused U/s 313 CrPC, but | have recorded the
statement of the accused U/S 313 CrPC and plea taken by accused is of
denial. By way of cross-examination accused has rebutted the
presumption about his involvement with the offence. Having
considered all, | find it proper to acquit the accused person from the
alleged charge as prosecution has failed to prove the same beyond all
reasonable doubt. Accordingly, accused is acquitted and set at liberty,
and bail bond of the accused will be automatically cancelled after the
expiry of 6 months if no appeal/revision is preferred.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 7th day of
March/2020, at Nagaon.

Dictated & corrected by me.
Special Judge, Nagaon.
Special Judge, Nagaon.
APPENDIX

Oral evidence :-

PW-1
PW-2
PW-3
PW-4
PW-5

Father of the victim
Victim (name withheld).
Mamoni Hazarika
Mother of the victim
Medical officer.

Documentary evidence :-

Ext.-1
Ext.-2

Ext.3

F.AILR.
Statement of victim U/S 164 CrPC
Medical report

Defence side did not adduce any evidence.

Special Judge, Nagaon.
