Page 1 of 9

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE DARRANG,MANGALDAI.

Spl(POCSO)11/2016.
(U/S: 376(2)(i) of |.2B.C. R/W 4 of POCSO Act)

State

Versus

Kumar Pradhan

S/O: Lt.Dhan bahadur Pradhan

Vill- Barman Pather

Dist-Darrang(Assam)
-Accused.

PRESENT: Sri P.Saikia,A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge.
Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPERANCE:

For the Prosecution : Sri RSarma, P.P.,Mangaldai
AND

For the accused : Madhab Rajbangshi , Advocate.

Evidence recorded on :03/03/17, 03/04/17, 05/05/17,
06/06/17 and 05/07/17

Argument heard on: 22/08/2017.

Judgment delivered on: 05/09/2017.
Page 2 of 9

UDGMENT
1. The prosecution case in a nut shell is that on 10/12/2015 the

informant Babulal Newar lodged an FIR with the O/C, Sipajhar
PS. alleging inter alia that on 06/12/2015 in the afternoon at
about 1 p.m. his minor daughter(real name _ is_ withheld,
henceforth referred as the victim) while playing out side the
house of the accused Kumar Pradhan, then the accused called
her inside his house and thereafter committed rape on her by
tying both her hands and feet.

2. Basing on the FIR the Officer In-charge, Sipajhar Police Station
registered a case vide Sipajhar P.S. case No.787/15 U/S 376(2)(i)
|.P.C. read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act and entrusted the
case for investigation to A.S.I. Dalim Das. During investigation of
the case 1.0. visited the place of occurrence, prepared one
sketch map, recorded the statement of the witnesses U/S 161
Cr.P.C and also got the statement of the victim recorded U/S 164
Cr.P.C. 1.0. also obtained the medical examination report of the
victim. On completion of the investigation the 1.0. laid a report
U/S 173 Cr.P.C. against the accused for the offence U/S 376(2)(i)
IPC read with Section 6 of POCSO Act appeared to have been
committed by the accused to face trial in the court of law.

3. After filing of the charge sheet the cognizance of the offence
was taken by this court of Sessions. Whereupon a perusal of the
material on record including the Police report U/S 173 Cr.P.C. a
prima-facie case was made out to frame charge against the
accused U/S 376(2)(ii) IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.
Accordingly, formal charge was framed thereunder and the same
on being read over and explained to which the accused pleaded
not guilty and claimed to stand trial.

4. At the trial, the prosecution examined as many as 6 witnesses
including the M.O and |.O. of the case. The prosecution has also

relied on Some documents marked as exhibits.
Page 3 of 9

5. The accused on being examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. has taken a plea
of innocence and declined to enter upon defence.

6. Situated thus, the point for determination is set forth as follows:
(i)Whether the accused on 06/12/15 at 1 p.m. at Barman pathare
under Sipajhar P.S. forcefully committed rape on Sri Anicha
Newar, daughter of complainant Sri Babulal Newar who is 12
years of age as alleged U/S 376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act?

7. | have heard argument rendered by the learned counsel of both
the sides. | have also carefully also evaluated the evidence on
record in its entirety.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:
8. PW1 Babulal Newar is the first informant of the case. He has

 

testified to the effect that he lodged the FIR one year ago
against the accused. On that day after returning from working
when he reached home his wife stated to him that the accused
had committed rape upon his 13 years old daughter. The FIR was
written by one scribe at his home and the same was read over to
him and finding the contents therein as correct he put his

thumb impression thereon.

9. In cross examination he has stated that on 10/12/15 on the day
of lodging the the FIR , the accused had not committed any act
upon his daughter. After having came to know of the incident he
he lodged the FIR. It is also not known to him who had actually
written the FIR and who submitted the same at the Police
Station. The accused belongs to his same village and he has no
grudge against the accused. He has also no objection if the
accused is acquitted.

10.PW2 Mozamil Hoque is the scribe of the FIR. It is his evidence
that on 10/12/15 he had writen one FIR at the instruction of the
Page 4 of 9

informant(PW1). When read over the contents of the FIR to the
informant and the same was found correct by the informant put
his thumb impression therein. He has proved the FIR as ext.1,
wherein ext.1(1) is the endorsement given by him near the
thumb impression of the informant. He has also proved his
Signature as scribe. Ext.1(2) is his signature.

11.In cross examinatrion he has stated that he was told about the
incident on the date of writing the FIR. At the time of writing the
FIR the victim was not present. The FIR was written in front of
the Police Station. He has denied the suggestion that he had not
read over the contents of the FIR to the informant. However, the
Same does not reflect in the FIR. He does not know anything
about the incident. However, he has denied that he had
prepared the FIR at his home.

12.PW3 is the victim. She has stated that the accused is known to
her and his house is situated in her same village. Her father
lodged the FIR against the accused alleging that he committed
rape upon her. After lodging of the FIR the Police visited their
home and produced her before the Magistrate to record her
statement. She has proved and marked her statement before
the Magistrate as ext.2. Ext.2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures. She
was also medically examined. In her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
she had not deposed truely.

13.In cross examination she has revealed that the accused is her
uncle in relation. As the accused had not allowed her to play on
that she falsely reported the same to her father. The accused
had not committed any bad work or rape upon her. She has no
grudge against the accused at present.

14.PW4 Chinmoy Baruah is the Judicial Magistrate. According to his
evidence on 11/12/15 he was working as Judicial Magistrate First
Class, Mangaldai. On that day he had recorded the statement of
Page 5 of 9

the victim in connection with this case. The statement was
recorded by him in capacity of himself being the Aleka
Magistrate of Sipajhar Police Station. The 1.0. of this case ASI
Dalim Das has brought the victim before him. Accordingly, her
statement on oath U/S 164 Cr.PC. was recorded by him in
presence of her father as per Section 26(1) of POCSO Act,2012.
Thereafter, he granted custody of the victim girl to her
father(informant) on execution of PR. Bond. He has exhibited
the statement of the victim U/S 161 Cr.P.C. as ext.2, ext.2(1) is
the signature of the victim taken before him. Ext.2(2) is also
another signature of the victim taken before him. Ext.2(3) and
2(4) are his signatures.

15.In cross examination he stated that at the time of examination
of the victim girl the |.O. was not present before him.

16.PW5 Dr. Mrs Lipika Bora is the Medical Officer who examined the
victim in connection with this case. Her evidence reflects that
on 31/12/15 while she was working at Sipajhar CHC as Senior
Medical and Health Officer she examined the victim girl in
connection with Sipajhar PS case No.787/15 and on examination
she found - (i) no spermatozoa in vaginal swab of the victim
girl, (ii) victim's age was 12 to 13 years from the X-ray
examination report, (iii) uterus size was normal, (iv) pregnancy
test negative, (v) no injury was seen in her private part at the
time of examinatio and (vi) no sign of rape was seen at the time
of examination. Cross examination ofg PW5 was declined by the
defence.

17.PW6 Dalim Das is the 1.0. of the case. It is his evidence that on
10/12/15 he was acting as ASI of Police at Sipajhar Police Station.
On that day the O/C, Sipajhar Police Station received an FIR
lodged by informant Babulal Newar. Accordingly, the Officer-in-
charge of Sipajhar Police Station registered a case and
entrusted him to take up the investigation of the case. During
Page 6 of 9

investigation he visited the place of occurrence, prepared one
Sketch map, recorded the statement of the witneses U/S 161
Cr.P.C. He also got the statement of the victim recorded U/S 164
Cr.P.C., sent the victim for medical examination and obtained her
medeical examination report. He also arrested the accused and
forwarded him to custody. On completion of investigation he laid
a report U/S 173 Cr.P.C. against the accused for the offence U/S
376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 6 of POCSO Act. He has proved
and marked the sketch map as Ext.4 and ext.4(1) is his
signature. Ext.5 is the charge sheet, wherein ext.5(1) is his

signature.

18.In cross examination he has revealed that the incident occured
on 06/12/15 and the FIR was lodged after 4 days of the
occurrence. No explanation has been made in the FIR regarding
delay in lodging the same. He only recorded the statement of
the available witnesses near the place of occurrence. The
informant of the case after the incident came to their Police
Station on 27/01/16 and he wanted to withdraw the case against
the accused, but they expressed their inability and informed the
informant to file a petition in this regard before the court.

19.On careful analyses of the above discussed evidence on record,
what has emerged that there is no cogent, consistent,
trustworthy and reliable evidence to establish the guilt of the
accused.

20.If we consider the evidence of the most important witness of
the case it would appear that PW3(victim) she has denied the
complicity of the accused in committing rape upon her. In no
uncertain terms she has disclosed in her in-chief examination
that on the date of the occurrence the accused did not commit
rape on her and whatever she has stated before the Magistrate
in her statement Ext.2 had not been deposed truely and thereby
this witness has given a blow to the prosecution case at the very
Page 7 of 9

root destroying the basic fabric of the prosecution story. Even in
her cross examination she has reiterated that the accused had
neither committed bad work nor rape upon her on the day of
occurrence. She has further revealed that as the accused who is
her uncle had not allowed her to play on that day and out of
grudge she falsely reported the matter to her father. She has no
grudge at present against the accused.

21.The testimony of the first informant(PW1) is also equally
contradictory to the FIR(ext.1) lodged by him. He has disclosed
in cross examination that on 10/12/15 though he lodged the FIR
the accused had not committed any rape on her.

22.Thus, it appears from the testimony of this vital witnesses
PWl1(informant) and PW23(victim) that they have not even
whispered a single word against the alleged charge levelled
against thew accused. Their evidence is found to be bereft of
trustfulness as they have cast off of the prosecution case at its
genesis. Hence, the value of the statement of the victim
girl(PW3) recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. pales into insignificance in the
face of incoherent and inxonsistent evidence adduced by the
victim(PW3).

23.In view of such irreconcilable evidence adduced by the vital
witnesses as discussed above what has remained is the
testimony of the medeical Officer(PW5). Her evidence is also
found to be not at all consistent with the prosecution case as
during examination of the victim girl(PW3) she found no sign or
rape on the victim nor had she found injury mark on her body
and private parts.

24.Now, coming to the testimony of PW6(I.0) of the case which is a
formal in nature yet in his cross examination he has further
rendered the prosecution case more improbable’ as to the
commission of rape by the accused inasmuch as he _ has
Page 8 of 9

disclosed that after lodging the FIR on 10/12/15 after 4 days of
the incident by the informant which occured on 06/12/15 the
informant again came to the Police Station on 27/01/16 and
wanted to withdraw the case against the accused, but they
expressed their inability in this regard by informing the
informant(PW1) to file a petition in this regard before this court.
Situated thus, it is evident from the incoherent and discrepant
evidence on record that had the accused committed rape on the
victim(PW3) on the day of occurrence the informant (PW1)would
not have waited for 4 days to file the FIR and thereafgter he
would not have again came to the Police Station to withdraw the
case against the accused coupled with non finding of sign of
rape by the medical Officer(PW5) invariably implies that the
prosecution case is a concocted one against the accused.

25.Having found no shred of implicating evidence on record against
the accused, | hold the accused Kumar Pradhan not guilty U/S
376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. He is thereafore,
acquited thereunder. Set him at liberty.

26.Bail bond executed by the accused and the surety shall remain
in force for another six months under the purview of Section
437(A) Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court this 5th day of
September,2017.

Dictated and corrected by me and
each page bears my signatures

(P.Saikia),
Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
Page 9 of 9

APPENDIX

A)Prosecution witnesses:
i)PW1 Babular Newar
ili)PW2 Mozamil Hoque
iii)/PW3 Anisha Devi
iv)PW4 Chinmoy Baruah
v)PW5 Dr.Mrs. Lipika Bora
vi)PW6 Dalim Das

B)Defence witness: Nil.

C)Exhibits:

i)Ext.1, ejahar

ii)Ext.2 statement of victim.
iii)Ext.3 GR case record.
iv)Ext.4 medical report.
v)Ext.5 charge sheet.

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
