-1-

IN THE COURT OF DISTRICT & SESSIONS JUDGE: CACHAR; SILCHAR
SPL. POCSO CASE NO_.250f 2013
(U/S 4 of POCSO Act.)
Present:-Shri K. Choudhury, LL.M.,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......ccecesscesecceccssssneesseeeessetsseeeeeeeeeseseseeeaas Complainant.
-Versus-

Deben Ghatowar,
S/O- Late NetaiGhatowar

Dayapur. P.S. Udharbond..............c:ccccccccceeeeeesessseneneees Accused person.
Charge framed On tm.........cccecececesssssceeceeeeeeesssesneeeeseeeeeeeenenes 09.10.2013.
P.Ws. examined ON: - ......ccceseeeveveees 27.11.13;12.12.13; 07.01.2014.
C.WS OXAMINE” ON} -.. cc eccccccccccseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenees 25.02.14; 13.03.14.
Statement of accused recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C:- 10.01.14;
&11.03.14.
Argument heard ON: -.........cccccccccccccesesceeeseesseeeeeeeeeesesesseenens 18-05-17.
Judgment pronounced and delivered ON: .........ccccceceeeeeeees 23-05-17.
Learned Counsel Appeared
For the State: -.......cssessssssssesseeeeeeeeeessueeeeeees Mr. S.Dutta, Ld. PP.
For the ACCUSEC: ~..........cccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeensees M.K. Barlaskar. Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. Prosecution case as it evolves from the record is thaton23-

05-2013 at about 12 noon, the accused being the neighbor of the
complainant tempted the minor daughter of the complainant aged
about 8 years, here in below referred as victim, by showing her a

jackfruit and induced her to go to his homestead. Thereafter he took
2.

her to the adjacent hillock and forcibly rapped her beneath the jackfruit
tree, and threatened her with dire consequences in case of disclosure.
In the meantime his wife came there and handed over a note of
Rs.20/- denomination to the victim asking her not to disclose the
matter to her father. Thereafter, the victim came to her house. Her
mother noticing oozing out of blood asked her about the incident. The
complainant thereafter knowing about the incident lodged FIR on 25-
05-13 against the accused. The same was registered as Udharbond P.S.
case No. 61/13, U/S 376/506 IPC. During investigation the accused was
arrested and the victim was medically examined and she also gave
statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. Doctor could not give opinion regarding the
age of the victim for non-receipt of X-ray report. On completion of the
investigation the I.0. submitted charge sheet against the accused U/S 6
of POCSO Act.

2. Learned C.J.M. Cachar, Silchar after procuring the attendance
of the accused furnished copies of all relevant documents and
committed the offence fixing 26-08-13 for appearance of the accused
before the Sessions Court. The then predecessor in office after hearing
both sides, and considering of the materials on record framed formal
charges against the accused U/S 4 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences (POCSO)Act 2012. The charge was read over and
explained to the accused to which the accused pleaded not guilty.

Hence trial began.

ae To prove the case prosecution examined as many as six
witnesses including the victim. Two witnesses were also examined as
C.W.s.
4, Defence plea is that the family members of the complainant
used to take jack fruit from the house of the accused without
permission and when the accused warned them, a false case was filed
against the accused and the victim being tutored adduced false

evidence.

5. During examination of the accused U/S 313 CrPC. the
accused took the similar plea and pleaded as innocent. After that my
learned predecessor heard argument of both sides and on the date of
Judgment referred the matter to the Hon’ble High Court on the
question of validity of Section 29 of the POCSO Act in the light of Article
14,20, 21 of the Constitution of India.

Hon’ble High Court vide Judgment and order dated 25-
01-17 passed in Crl. Reference No. 1/15 answered the reference in
negative and directed this Court of Special Judge to pronounce the
Judgment in accordance with existing provision of the Act of 2012.

Hence, this Court proceed to hear the argument.

6. Now, point for decision is as to whether, under the facts and
circumstances of the case, the accused committed any offence of
penetrative sexual assault as charged U/S 4 of POCSO Act.

7. To decide the above I have heard learned counsel of both
sides at length and perused the entire evidence on the record. Findings,

decision and reasons thereof are given below:

8. P.W.1 is the victim who being found below 12 years of age

was put some question and on being satisfied the learned predecessor
-4-

recorded her evidence on oath and in camera. Her approximate age
was recorded as 11 years. She deposed that about six months prior to
her evidence one day at noon while she was playing Ranna-bati alone
the accused came there and offered to give her jackfruit to eat from
their tree, and saying the same took her to some distance near a tree.
After that he pushed her on a ground. She tried to raise cry.He then
tied her mouth by a Gamucha and pulled down her panty. After that he
opened her pant and committed sexual assault and gave two jackfruits
and Rs.20/- asking her not to tell the matter to anybody. When she
replied that she would tell the same to her parents the accused
threatened her to kill and would put her in a gunny bag and would
throw it away. At that time her father was absent in the house for work.
On that day she did not tell anything to anybody. On the following day
seeing her panty, when her mother asked, her she reported the matter.
Thereafter her father lodged the FIR

9, PW. 2 — the father of the victim, deposed that on the
following day of the alleged incident his wife saw blood on the panty of
the victim and on query the victim reported that the accused taking her
in a jungle with promise of giving jackfruit committed rape on her (the
victim). It was also reported by the victim that the accused after
committing rape gave her Rs.20/- and also threatened her with dire
consequences in case of disclosure. It is further deposed that on being
so reported by his wife he reported the matter to the member of
Panchayat and after that he lodged the FIR. During investigation the
victim was medically examined, but for demand of money by the
medical authority X-ray investigation could not be done. He lodged FIR
two days after the alleged incident as the matter was informed to the

group member and panchayat.
10. PW. 3 mother of the victim deposed that on the night of
the alleged incident the victim felt ill due to fever. On the following day
she saw blood in the panty of the victim. The victim then reported that
the accused telling her to give a big jackfruit from his t/a took her and
committed rape. The accused asked the victim not to disclose anything
to anybody and in case of disclosure she would be killed. The accused
also gave Rs. 20/-her (victim). The matter was reported to the

complainant, who lodged the FIR.

11. PW. 4 - Sanju Mia Laskar, deposed that about seven
month back of his deposition, one day while he was engaged in the
construction work of a drain of Education department besides the
house of the accused saw the victim coming out from the direction of
the house of the accused. The victim was found crying. On query the
victim told him that the accused promising to give jackfruit took her to
his house and committed rape on her. He then called Sahajul Ali, the
ward member and informed the matter. Sahajul Ali advised to send the

girl to her parents and the victim was sent to her house.

12. PW. 5 is the I.O. According to him O/C of the P.S. on 25-05-
13 received the FIR and registered the same as Udarbond P.S.case U/S
376/506 IPC and entrusted him to investigate the case. During
investigation he made arrangement for sending the victim for medical
examination. He visited the P.O. and drew sketch map of the P.O.,
recorded statement of witnesses and also sent the victim to the
Magistrate for recording statement. On completion of investigation he

submitted charge sheet.
13. P.W.6 is the M.O. According to her on 25-05-13 while she
was working in the deptt. of Forensic medicine SMCH examined the
victim, a student of Class-II, and aged about 12 years being disclosed
by the victim. The victim gave history of the alleged incident to the
affect that on 23-05-13 at around 2.00 p.m. the accused told the victim
to go along with him to get a jackfruit. The victim’s elder sister allow
her to go with the accused. After that the accused taking the victim to
a hillock forced the victim to open her undergarments and forcefully
tried to commit sexual act. The victim girl shouted and wife of that man
i.e. the accused came to the spot and scolded him. He then started
beating his wife and gave the victim Rs.20/- and also threatened the
victim to kill her in case the incident is disclosed to anyone. The victim
girl then went back and did not tell anything to anybody. The elder
sister of the victim came to know about the incident from the wife of
the accused when the sister went to bring water from the hillock where
the wife of the accused told her (sister of the victim) the whole
incident.

Main findings of the M/O are that, there were 23 numbers teeth,
auxiliary body hairs are found not present, breast found sealed type,
puberty not attained, no abnormality detected, intelligence was found
average, no stains on wearing garment detected, no bodily injuries
detected, hymen found healthy, intact and deep seated. X-ray advised
but report was not received. The doctor opined that the definite opinion
could not be given for want of X-ray report. The doctor however on the
basis of finding of teeth opined the age of the victim as between 6 to

12 years.
-7-

14. C.W.1 Rashmina Begum, the elder sister of the victim,
deposed that on the date of occurrence at about 1 or 2 p.m. while the
victim was playing, the accused called the victim to his house. The
victim returned home as crying. On the following day when she went to
the stream near to the house of the accused to fetch watermet the wife
of the accused, who reported that accused committed rape on the
victim. She further deposed that returning home when she told the
matter to her mother it was reported by her mother that blood was
seen on the panty of the victim. Thereafter on query the victim told
that the accused committed rape on her, and out of fear of threatening
of the accused to the affect that in case of disclosure the accused
would kill her, she did not report the incident.

15. C.W. 2- Smti Momota Gatowar, the wife of the accused
deposed that the house of the victim was situated at far away from
their house. She knew Sanju Mia. She did not see the occurrence and
did not hear anything regarding the alleged occurrence and cannot say
the reason of arrest of his husband.

In the cross-examination she stated that she did not
meet the sister of the victim i.e. C.W.1 and told anything to her. She
further stated that prior to the alleged occurrence the family members
of the victim stolen away jackfruit from their tree and for which her
husband threatened them. Neither she nor her husband gave any
money to the victim or to any family member of the victim and
allegation as brought against her husband i.e the accused was false

and baseless.

16. During hearing learned P.P. has strongly submitted that

there is no reason for disbelieving the testimony of the victim
-8-

corroborated by other material witnesses. On the contrary learned
defence counsel strongly contended that there are many discrepancies
and contradictions to shake out the credibility of the material witnesses.
Further it is submitted that the victim as a tutored witness adduced
evidence against the accused.P.W.4 is a chance witness and others are
related witness. Further contention is that, delay of two days of lodging
FIR, under the facts and circumstances of the case, being not properly
explained is fatal for the prosecution. Further contention is that medical

evidence does not support the case of the prosecution.

17. P.W.5, the I.0., in his cross-examination while giving
the description of place of occurrence stated that to the east of the place
of occurrence there were houses of Jagannath Gatowar and other people
and to the east there is a P.W.D road. Statement of any people of
Deshowali community shown in the sketch map was not recorded. The
I.O. proved some omissions/contradiction to the effect that —

1. P.W.1 did not state about her going to school and playing of
rannabati returning from school and that her mother was in the house
of her uncle and her sister was in vegetable garden. P.W.1 further did
not state to the I.O. that she tried to raise cry but the accused tied her
mouth with a gamucha and the accused gave her Rs.20/- and two
jackfruit and about any threatening of dire consequences.

2. P.W.2 did not state before the I.O. that the victim at the material
time did not return from school and about giving of Rs.20/- to the
victim by the accused and about threatening in case of disclosure.

3. P.W.3 did not state before I.0. that, on that very night the victim
suffered from fever and also had been suffering from fever at the time
of giving statement, and about disclosure of the incident by the elder

sister of the victim and about that accused took away the victim for
-9-

giving jackfruit and about that after sometime the victim returned with
a jackfruit, and that the accused gave the victim Rs.20/-.

The I.0. however stated that all the three witnesses
stated before him that wife of the accused gave Rs.20/- to the victim.
4. P.W.4 did not state before the I.O. that at the material time he was
carrying out construction work of Education Deptt. and the victim was
found crying and about that he called the member who advised him to

send the girl to her parents.

18. P.W.1 both in examination-in-chief and his cross-
examination stated that on that day she did not tell to anybody. That
being so, the evidence of P.W.4 that, on the date of occurrence she
found the victim coming from the direction of the house of the accused
as crying, and on query the victim stated that the accused committed
rape on her, has got little evidentiary value. Further it is also difficult to
rely upon that any child of 11-12 years of age would easily disclose
anything of such nature of alleged incident to any outsider and would
not disclose the same to any inmates of her family and will wait for
days till query is made. The evidence of P.W.4 does not disclose
anything about the manner how the victim was rapped by the accused.
It is also not believable that any minor victim without giving any
description of the alleged incident would merely say that she was
rapped. P.W.2 and 3 as a reported witness stated that the victim
reported that she was rapped. But the manner how it was committed is
not disclosed. C.W.1, the elder sister of the victim, deposed that the
victim was found crying. Now question comes as to why no query was
made about her crying on that very day just after the alleged incident.

Similarly it appears to be very un-natural that the wife of the accused
-10-

first reported to the C.W.1 about the alleged incident. In the history
recorded by the doctor being narrated by the victim the accused gave
Rs. 20/- to the victim though corroborated by the P.W.1,2 & 3 butitisa
contradiction in as much as according to I.O. all of them stated that
wife of the accused gave Rs.20/-. P.W.1, the victim in her evidence
stated that the accused pushed her on the ground and she tried to cry
but her mouth was tied with gamucha. But as per the medical evidence
the victim narrated to the M.O. that the victim shouted and wife of the
accused came to the spot. If it is believed that the victim shouted and
the wife of the accused came, question comes as to why the
neighbouring people could not hear the shout. Medical evidence does
not disclose any injury. Had the victim was pushed down on the ground
and the accused forcibly rapped her some sorts of injury naturally
would have been found in her body. According to the mother of the
victim, she noticed blood stain on panty of the victim. This implies that
victim sustained injury. If that be so questions will naturally follow as to
why the doctor did not find any mark of injury. Hymen was found to be
intact and deep seated. Doctor also opined that no evidence of sexual
intercourse was detected. Further, evidence of inmates of the victim
merely disclosed about the report of commission of rape by the accused
without any description how it was committed. No report of pain of the
victim is disclosed in the entire evidence. The medical evidence also
does not disclose anything about pain. P.W.1 also did not disclose about
any pain suffered by her. Therefore, the evidence that some blood stain
was noticed in the panty of the victim is not at all reliable and baseless.
If it is believed that the victim reported the matter on the following day
of the incident question comes as to why that the parents of the victim

waited one more day to lodge FIR. No cogent explanation is found in
-11-

the evidence. The evidence of P.W.2, father of the victim, that he could
not get X-ray examination done as the medical authority wanted money
is also very difficult to be relied upon, in as much as the victim was got

medically examined at the instance of Police.

19. In view of the above discussions, contentions, deductions it
clearly appears that defence plea as taken about the stained relation
between the parties relating to taking of jackfruit by the inmates of the
family of the victim has got sufficient force and also it clearly appears
that out of that stained relation the victim as a tutored witness gave
evidence against the accused and the story is a concocted one. Delay
of lodging FIR, under the facts and circumstances of the case, is also
considered as fatal for the prosecution. Further, evidence of P.W.4 for
reasons discussed earlier is also considered as hearsay evidence.
Therefore upon consideration of the evidence in its entirety being found
full of contradictions and discrepancies and the evidence of rape being
not supported by medical evidence it is very difficult to take
presumption as emphasized U/S 29 of POCSO Act.

20. In the light of the above discussion, it is held that
prosecution case is not proved beyond all reasonable doubtU/S 4 of
POCSO Act. Accused is thus held to be not guilty of the offences as

charged or whatsoever. He is thus acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.
-12-

21. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court

under my signature and seal of this court on this 25" day of May, 2017.

Dictated & Corrected by me

(Shri K. Choudhury), (Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge. Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
-13-

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR.

SPL POCSO Case No 25 of 2013.
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

P.W. 1—-Nashima Begum Laskar
P.W. 2— Sahab Uddin Laskar.
P.W. 3 —Angura Begum.

P.W. 4 —Sanju Mia Laskar.

P.W. 5 —Abu Das

P.W. 6 —Dr. Monalisa Dev

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: -

(C) Court Witnesses: -

C.W.-1 —Rashmina Begum.
C.W.-2 —Smti. MoumitaGhatowar

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.l1—-—  FI.R.

Ext.1(1)— Signature of the then O.C. of Udharbond P.S
Ext. 2 — Sketch Map.

Ext. 2(1)— Signature of PW-5

Ext.3—Charge-Sheet

Ext. 3(1) — Signaturesof P.W.-5

Ext. 4 — Medical Report.

Ext.4(1)-4(3)-Signature of P.W-6

Ext-4(4) | — Signature of Dr. Gunojit Das.

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - —NIL

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Transcribed by me (Shri K. Choudhury),

Pramotesh Dey. Special Judge,
Stenographer-1 Cachar, Silchar.
