SPL. POCSO No. 14/17.
State. 122133333333. Complainant.
-Vs-

Thoiba Mia alias Jamir Ahmed.

S/O Abdur Rahman.

Vill. & P.O. Banshkandi Part-II.

P.S. Lakhipur. sii Accused.

U/S 366 IPC & U/s 4 of POCSO Act.

ORDER
Dated 11-07-17.

Accused is produced from Jail Hazot. Today three P.Ws including
the complainant, victim and their mother are present. They are examined as
P.W.1, 3 and 2 respectively.P.W.2 is not cross-examined. Others are cross-
examined and they aredischarged. Considering the nature of evidence the
learned P.P. has submitted for closure of the prosecution evidence on the ground
that examination of any further witness would not in any way improve the
prosecution case. Accordingly petition bearing No. 96/35 is filed. Sufficient
force is found in the submission. Hence, evidence is closed. I would like to
dispose of the case under provision of Sec 232 Cr.P.C..

Accused is examined. Heard argument of both sides.

In the instance case charges were framed U/S 366 IPC and U/s 4 of
POCSO Act with the accusation that on 20-02-17 at about 5.00 p.m. the accused
kidnapped the minor sister of the complainant and committed penetrative sexual
assault on her. The charges when read out and explained, the accused pleaded
not guilty.

P.W.1 is the complainant, the brother of the victim. According to him, at
about 3-4 months back one day the victim was found missing. On search she
being not found he lodged the ejahar. After 2-3 days during further search the
victim was found in the house of the accused at Banshkandi, and with the help
of police victim was recovered. He has further deposed that at the relevant time
the victim was aged about 18-19 years.

In his cross-examination he has stated that after recovery it was reported
by the victim that she got married with the accused. Subsequently it was settled
in the village that as the victim got married with the accused there would be no
hurdles for their further co-habitation as husband & wife and he has no
grievance against the accused.

P.W.2 Chana Begumhas deposed that the victim is her daughter and aged
above 18 years. She has further deposed that about three and half months back
while the victimwas in their custody one day the victim went out to meet her
elder sister but did not return. 4-5 days after that the victim was recovered.
Presently they are willing to give marriage of the victim with the accused and
the same was settled in the villagebichar. She deposed that she has no grievance
against the accused.

P.W.3 NoorjahanBergum, the victim of this case,has deposed that she had
love affairs with the accused. About four months back one day she went to the
house of the accused at Bashkandi and got married with him as per Muslim
Shariat. She has further deposed that as she without informing anything to any
of her inmates, her brother lodged FIR against the accused.During her stay in
the house of the accused she got married and she has no grievance against the
accused.

From the above, it reveals that the victim at her own will went
with the accused and in the absence of cogent evidence of age of the victim it
also appears that at the material time she was of consenting age and
subsequently both of them got socially married. Therefore, it can rightly be
arrived at that there is no incriminating materials come out against the
accused to establish the charged framed against the accused. The prosecution
charges are therefore held to be not proved at all for want of implicating
evidence. Accused is thus held to be not guilty of the offence as charged or
whatsoever and he is therefore acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.

Bail bond stands discharged.

This order of acquittal is pronounced and delivered in the open
Court under my seal & signature of this Court on this 11" day of July, 2017.

Special Judge.
Cachar, Silchar.
