1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present : Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 11/2017 (Special) /
Sessions Case No. 91/2017 corresponding to GR
Case No. 785/2017 & Diphu Police Station Case
No. 159/2017

Under sections 366 A of IPC and 4 of the
POCSO Act

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Jirsong Enghi
Name of informant/complainant:
Shri Rupsing Timung
S/O Late Longsing Timung
Village: Rongmili Forest Colony
PS: Diphu
District-Karbi Anglong
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Jirsong Enghi
S/O Shri Dhansing Enghi
Village: Toukhadi No.1 Enghi Gaon
PS: Kheroni
District-West Karbi Anglong
Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor.
For the defense : Mr J. Paul.
Argument heard on : 07.08.2019.

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 26.08.2019
2|Page

JUDGMENT

1. It is a case of penetrative sexual assault alleged to

have been committed by the accused person.

Z. The prosecution case in brief is that on 08.10.2017, the
informant-Shri Rupsing Timung lodged a written ejahar at
Diphu Police Station stating inter alia that on the same day
at about 8:30 AM, his victim daughter went to Diphu Govt.
College and since then she had been missing. He suspected
that the accused above-named had kidnapped his victim
daughter. On receipt of the written ejahar, O/C, Diphu Police
Station registered a case vide Police Station Case No. 159 of
2017 under section 366-A of IPC. On completion of
investigation, 1.0. submitted the charge-sheet under sections
366-A of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused

Shri Jirsong Enghi. Hence the prosecution has come up.

3. On submission of charge sheet under sections 366A of
the IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act, it was re-numbered. Having
very carefully gone through the submissions duly advanced
by the learned lawyers of both sides as well as case diary I
found ground for presuming that the accused person
committed the offences under sections 363 of the IPC/4 of
the POCSO Act and accordingly the charges were framed.
The particular of the charged offense was duly read over and
explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During trial, Prosecution side has examined as many as
8 (eight) witnesses including the complainant and the

alleged victim. Statement of the accused was recorded under
3|Page

section 313 of CrPC. Defence declined to adduce evidence.

Plea of defence is of total denial.

5. Points for determination are:

i. Whether the accused person on 01.08.2017
kidnapped the victim from her lawful guardian at Village

Rongmili Forest Colony under Diphu Police Station?

ii. Whether the accused person on or after 01.08.2017
committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim who
was the daughter of the informant, Shri Rupsing Timung at
Whether the accused person on 01.08.2017 kidnapped the
victim from her lawful guardian at Village Rongmili Forest

Colony or at any other place?

6. Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through verbal arguments
advanced by the learned counsels of both sides as well as
evidence on record. At the very outset, the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the accused person has contended
that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case
against the accused person. On the other hand, the learned
Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the aforesaid
submission has submitted that the prosecution has
succeeded in establishing its case against the accused
person beyond all reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the
rival submissions, it would be appropriate to give a glance at

evidence record.

7. PW-1 is Smti. Kabita Timungpi who deposed in her

testimony that the informant is her father and the victim is
4|Page

her sister. The occurrence took place on 05.10.2017. On the
day of occurrence, her victim-sister came out of their house,
but she did not return on that day. After two days of the
occurrence, the victim over telephone informed her father
that she was in Daikhali village under Kheroni Police Station
in the house of Jirsong Enghi and on that day itself, she and
her father went to the house of Jirsong Enghi. Getting the
information of their movement towards the house of the
accused, the family members of the accused kept him and
her sister hidden in unknown place. While they reached the
house of the accused, his family members drove them away
and they were reluctant to talk with them regarding the
victim. Thereafter, they came back to Diphu and her father
lodged the ejahar at Diphu PS. After one day of the
occurrence, police recovered the victim girl from the clutches
of the accused person, Jirsong Enghi and the police took
both of them to Diphu Police Station.

8. PW-2 is Shri Rupsing Timung who told that he is the
informant of this case. The victim is his daughter who was
17 years old at the time of occurrence. On 05.10.2017 at
about 3:00 PM the victim came of the house for the purpose
of playing at the field of Govt. Boys High School, but on that
day, she did not come home back. They made search to
trace her whereabouts. On 07.10.2017 the mother of the
accused Jirsong Enghi informed her over telephone that the
victim was in their house situated at Dokhadi under Kheroni
Police Station. On that day, he along with his daughter and
wife went to the house of the accused person. Getting the
information of their arrival, the victim was taken from the
house of the accused to an unknown place. Thereafter, the
family members of the accused person drove them away

from their house. Then he lodged the ejahar at Diphu Police
5|Page

Station. On the following day of filing of the FIR, police went
to the house of the accused along with him and recovered
the victim from his house. The police took both the accused
and the victim to Diphu Police Station. Police got the victim
medically examined and got her statement recorded in the
Court. The Court handed her over to him. Ext.1 is his ejahar
and Ext.1(1) is his signature.

9. PW-3 is the victim who has stated that the informant is
her father and she knows the accused person. The
occurrence took place in the year 2017. At the time of
occurrence, she was 17 years old. One night she called the
accused to come to their house and thereafter while the
accused came, she fled away with him and took shelter in
the house of the accused situated at Tokhati under Kheroni
Police Station. Before fleeing away with the accused person,
she met him on the date of occurrence at 4:00 PM in the
playground of Diphu Govt. Boys High School. Her sister
found her and the accused person sitting together in the said
field. She was at the house of the accused person for five
days as husband and wife. During her stay there, the
accused made sexual intercourse with her. The police
recovered her from the house of the accused and took both
them to Diphu Police Station. Police got her medically
examined and her statement recorded in the Court. Ext.2 is
her statement and Ext.2(1) is her signature. The Court

handed her over to her parents.

10. PW-4 is Shri Jitu Hazarika who has deposed in his
evidence that the informant is his father-in-law. The victim is
the daughter of the informant. He knows the accused
person. The occurrence took place in the year 2017. At the

time of occurrence, the victim was 16 years old and at that
6|Page

time, he was at Guwahati. On the day of occurrence, his wife
informed him over telephone that the accused took away the
victim. After one day of the occurrence, the victim was
recovered. After recovery of the victim, he went to Diphu
Police Station where the victim was kept. At that time, he

saw the accused in the police station.

11. PW-5 is Shri Dilip Terang who has deposed in his
deposition that the informant is his father-in-law. The victim
is the daughter of the informant. He knows the accused
person. The occurrence took place in the year 2017. After
two days of the occurrence, father-in-law and mother-in-law
informed him that their daughter was in their house. After
two days of the occurrence, the victim was recovered with
the accused, Jirsong Enghi. After recovery of the victim, he
went to Diphu Police Station and saw the victim and the
accused person there. At the time of occurrence, the victim

was 16 years old.

12. PW-6 is Dr Mercy Rongpharpi stated that on
10.10.2017 while she was serving at Diphu Civil Hospital as
Medical & Health Officer, she examined victim in connection
with Diphu PS Case No.159/2017 and found the following:-
Hymen was absent and vagina admits two fingers. Posterior
fourchette was found congested. Posterior vaginal swab was
taken. Spermatozoa were detected. X-ray was done for age
determination. The age of the girl was below 18 years,
between 16-17 years. There was no visible external injury.

Ext.2 is the medical report and Ext.2(1) is her signature.

13. PW-7 is Smti. Ganga Hansepi who has deposed in her
testimony that the informant is her husband. The victim is

her daughter. The occurrence took place in the last Lakshi
7|Page

Puja. On the day of occurrence at about 4:00 PM, her
daughter came to Diphu Govt. Boys School for the purpose
of participating in Kung fu training program, but she did not
come home back. She searched her daughter in various
places including the houses of her friends, but did not find
her. After two days of missing of her daughter, the mother
of the accused informed her that her daughter was in their
house. After receiving the call from the mother of the
accused, she along with her husband, two other daughters
and their husbands went to the house of the accused
situated at Tokhadi under Kheroni Police Station. At the time
of their arrival at the house of the accused, her daughter and
the accused were present there, but after a while they fled
away and therefore, they could not bring her back. On the
next day of the occurrence, police came to the house of the
accused and brought the accused and the victim to Diphu
Police Station. At the time of occurrence, the victim was 16-
17 years old. Police brought the victim to the hospital for her
medical examination and got her statement recorded in the
Court.

14. PW-8 is Shri Bichitra Hajong who has stated in his
evidence that on 08.10.2017 while he was working at
Diphu Police Station, the O/C of the PS received an ejahar
from the informant, Shri Rupsing Timung to the effect that
his daughter at about 8:00 AM went to College and till then
she did not come home back. The complainant suspected
that the accused, Jirsong Enghi kidnapped his daughter.
After registration of the case, the O/C of their PS directed
him to investigate the case. He recorded the statement of
the informant in the police station, prepared a sketch map
and then went to the place of occurrence. He recorded the

statements of the witnesses at the place of occurrence. As
8|Page

15.

the house of the accused is situated at Kheroni, he kept
close contact with the O/C of Kheroni PS. On the night of
9" October, Kheroni PS informed him that the accused was
staying at his house and accordingly, on 10" October, he
and his staffs proceeded to Kheroni. In the meantime,
Police of Kheroni PS brought the victim and the accused to
their PS. Thereafter, he took both the victim and the
accused to Diphu Police Station. He sent the victim to
hospital for medical examination and then he got the
statement of the victim recorded in the Court. He
interrogated the accused and after his medical
examination, he produced the accused before the Court.
He seized the birth certificate of the victim in presence of
the witnesses. He collected the medical report of the victim
and the statement of the victim. After perusal of the birth
certificate of the victim, he prayed before the Court to add
the section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused
person. As he found sufficient materials under sections
366-A of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act, he submitted the
charge-sheet under the said sections against the accused
person. Ext.1 is ejahar, Ext.3 is sketch map, Ext.4 is
seizure list, Ext.5 is prayer made before the Court for
adding Sec.4 of the POCSO Act and Ext.6 is charge-sheet.
Ext.3(1), Ext.4(1), Ext.5(1) and Ext.6(1) are his signatures.

PW-1 is the brother of the victim. His evidence shows

that at the time of occurrence the victim was 16 years old.
According to PW-2 who is the father of the victim and PW-3

is the victim at the time of occurrence she was 17 years old.

PW-6 is the medical officer. On medical examination of the

victim on 10.10.2017 she found her (victim) age to be below

18 years between 16/17 years. PW-8 is the investigating

officer who has stated in his evidence that he seized one
9|Page

original birth certificate of the victim vide Ext-4 which shows
that at the time of occurrence the victim was 17 years 6
months 27 days. The victim herself has not disputed
contents the seized birth certificate admitting in her cross-
examination that in fact she was 18 years at the time of
occurrence. There is no guarantee that actual date of birth is
recorded in the birth certificate. It is evident that at the time
of occurrence she was a student of class XI (Eleven). Taking
medical evidence and cross-examination of the victim into
consideration I there is doubt that at the time of occurrence
victim was below 18 years. For attracting section 4 of the
POCSO Act, the victim at the time of occurrence must be a
child. According to section 2(d) of the POCSO Act a person is

a child who has not completed 18 years.

16. In such a case, the victim is considered to be most vital
witness. Her evidence shows that she fled away with the
accused person on her sweet will. It is also evident that the
accused made sexual intercourse with her on his consent

and will.

ORDER

 

17. In the result, I find that the prosecution has failed to
prove its case against the accused person Shri Jirsong Enghi
beyond all reasonable doubts. Hence on benefit of doubts
the accused person Shri Jirsong Enghi is hereby acquitted
from the charges brought against him and let him set at
liberty forthwith. Let the seized Birth certificate be returned
to the informant or to the victim in due course of Law. The
Superintendent of the District Jail, Karbi Anglong, Diphu is
asked to release the accused person if he is not wanted in

any other case.
10|Page

18. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

19. Given under hand and seal of this court today, the 26"
day of August, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and corrected

by me.
(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge, Special Judge,

Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
11|Page

APPENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Smti Kabita Timungpi
PW2- Shri Rupsing Timung
PW3- Victim

PW4- Shri Jitu Hazarika
PW5- Shri Dilip Terang
PW6- Dr Mercy Rongpharpi
PW7- Smti Ganga Hansepi
PW8- Shri Bichitra Hazong

Defence Witnesses: Nil
Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Medical Report

Ext.3- Sketch Map of the PO

Ext.4- Seizure List

Ext.5- Prayer for adding Section 4 of the POCSO Act
Ext.6- Charge Sheet

Defence Exhibited: Nil

Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam
12|Page
