1 eCourtIS copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,

SPECIAL CASE NO.22/2019
U/S.8 of POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM

Vs

Sri Subhash Adhikary
S/O Lt. Bhusan Adhikary
village Padmabil,
P.S.Gossaingaon
District- Kokrajhar

becuase Accused person.

Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghose, Special P.P
Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. Kalyan Ray
Charge framed on 07.08.2019
Evidence recorded on 09.09.2019; 23.09.2019;

04.11.2019
Argument heard on 30.11.2019
Judgment pronounced on 11.12.2019

UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that one xxx, the father of the victim,

xxx, lodged an FIR with the Officer in Charge, Gossaingaon PS alleging that
on 5.2.2019 while her minor daughter was speaking to her friend at about 9
pm, the accused Subhash Adhikary apprehended both of them on suspicion
that they are committing immoral acts. The accused then took the victim in

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
2 eCourtIS copy
his custody and confined her in his residence. During confinement, the
accused attempted the rape the victim but she shouted and was able to

defend herself from the immoral acts of the accused.

2. On receipt of the FIR, a case under Section 342/506 IPC read with
Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, was
registered and investigated. After completion of the investigation, a charge
sheet was laid against the accused Sri Subhash Adhikary for commission of

offence U/S 342/506 IPC read with Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

3s The accused person was summoned and on his appearance, copies
of the relevant documents were furnished to him. After hearing both the
sides charges under Section 8 of the POCSO Act was framed against the

accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

4. In the course of trial prosecution examined 6 (six) witnesses. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined U/S
313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and the accused

declined to adduce any evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION $:-

(i) Whether the accused is guilty of offence under Section 8 of

the POCSO Act?

DECISION AND REASONS :

5. Pw-1 Smti. Mina Adhikary deposed that she knows the informant.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy
The accused is her husband. In the month of February, 2019 xxx, the minor
daughter of informant was apprehended by some Adibashi people while she
was in the company of a boy. Her husband was informed and he alongwith
the informant brought the girl. That night the informant had kept his
daughter, the victim in their residence. On the following morning, the
informant took away his daughter. She does not know why the case has

been lodged against her husband.

6. In cross examination Pw-1 deposed that the victim slept with her at
night.
7. Pw-2 xxx, the father of the victim deposd that he knows the accused.

In the month of February, 2019 his daughter was found talking to a boy.
Some Adibashi people brought his daughter and handed her over to
Gaonburah. There was a village bichar and his daughter was given in
custody to the accused for the night. On the following day, he brought his
daughter to their home. He was asked by people to put his thumb

impression on a certain document.

8. In cross examination Pw-2 deposed that his daughter did not inform
him that the accused committed any sexual misconduct with her. He does

not know the contents of FIR.

9. Pw-3 xxx, the mother of victim deposed that in the month of
February, 2019 his daughter was found talking to a boy. Some Adibashi

people brought his daughter and handed over to Gaonburah. There was a

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
4 eCourtIS copy
village bichar and his daughter was given in custody to the accused for the

night. On the following day they brought their daughter to their home.

10. In cross examination Pw-3 deposed that his daughter did not inform
her that the accused committed any sexual misconduct with her. She does

not know the contents of FIR.

11.  PW-4 xxx, victim, deposed that the informant is her father. About 7
months back, while she was talking to her friend Sanjib, some Adivasi
people apprehended her and handed her to their Goanburah. Thereafter,
they called the accused and handed her over to accused for night. She
stayed at the residence of accused at night alongwith the wife and
daughter of accused. On the following day she was handed over to her

parents. She had a given statement before the Magistrate.

12. In cross examination Pw-4 deposed that accused did not misbehave

with her.

13. Pw-5 Sri Thakur Hembrom deposed that about 6 months back he
was informed that a Rajbongshi boy and a girl was found near a pond
during night hours. He went to the place of occurrence and took the boy
and a girl to the residence of Tarak Barman, Goanburah. He does not know

what happened thereafter.

14. The evidence reproduced above is entirely contrary to what has been
stated in the FIR and also in the statement made by the victim under

Section 164 CrPC. The evidence on record does not implicate the accused

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy
in any manner. He was handed over the custody of the victim by the village
people and according to the testimony of the victim, accused did not
misbehave with her at night. So being the evidence on record, there
appears no materials for the commission of offence under Section 8 of the

POCSO Act, 2012.

15. Inthe result, the point for determination is answered in negative.

ORDER
Accused Subhash Adhikary is acquitted of the charge
under Section 8 of the POCSO Act and set at liberty
forthwith.
His bail bonds are extended for six months.
Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this 11"

day of December,2019.

Dictated by
Addl. Special Judge Addl Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
6 eCourtIS copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :- Nil

2. Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1 Smti. Mina Adhikary
P.W.2 xxx, the father of victim
P.W.3 xxx, the mother of victim
P.W.4 XXX victim
P.W.5 Sri Thakur Hembrom
P.W.6 Sri Ganesh Roy
4.Defence Witness Nil
5. Court witness Nil

Addl. Special Judge(FTC),
Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
