Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. =

Present !-

Prosecutor !-

Accused !-

Date of framing charge '
Date of Recording Evidence x-

Date of examination of accused u/s <-
313 of Cr.P.C.

Date of Argument -
Date of Judgment =

Counsel of the Prosecution :-

Counsel-for Accused :-

56 OF 2017
(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, r/w
Section 120-B of IPC, arising out of
GR_ Case No 2896 of 2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
State of Assam

-Vs-
1.Md Faruk Ahmed,S/o Jakir Hussain,
2.Md Mustafa Ali, S/o Jonab Ali,
Both are of Vill--Dhalagurigaon, Singri,
P.S. — Dhekiajuli
Dist- Sonitpur.
07-05-2018.
21-05-2018.

21-05-2018.

21-05-2018.
21-05-2018.

Mr Munindra Ch Baruah,
Special Public Proecutor,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Mr F Haque, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused persons Mustafa and Faruk are put for trial for
the allegation of charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, r/w Section 120-B of IPC.
Page |2

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that on 27-07-2017,
while the informant’s 3 minor daughter Smti ‘X’ returned from Balijan Chowk after
marketing reaching near Dhalaguri LP School , taking advantage of darkness,
accused persons along with another one gagged her mouth and thereby gang raped
on her. On the very night of 27-07-2017, the informant’s victim daughter was sent to
hospital and thereafter she was again sent for treatment on 30-07-2017. Hence, this

prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the informant Sri Mahadeb Tudu before the
I/c Singri Out Post on 01-08-2017.

4. On receipt of the ejahar, I/C Singri Out post made GD Entry No 03
dated 01-08-2017 and forwarded the same to OC, Dhekiajuli*PS»for registering the
case. Accordingly, O/C, Dhekiajuli Police Station registered. the case vide Dhekiajuli
Police Station Case No 681/17 under Section 5(g)/6 of POCSO Act. After completion
of investigation, O/C, Dhekiajuli Police Station sent.up the case against the accused
person under Section 120-B/376 of IPC.

5. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
the parties, charge framed under.Section 4 of POCSO Act, r/w Section 120-B of the
IPC. Particulars of the charge.was read over, explained to the accused to which he

pleaded not guilty and.claimed to be tried.

6. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as seven nos
of witnesses. ‘After completion of evidence of victim, learned Counsel for the accused
submitted.to close the prosecution evidence on the ground that statement of victim
and.other witnesses no way supported the prosecution case. Therefore, it would be

futile-to examine the other witnesses. Learned Special PP also conceded.

7. On perusal of the statement of complainant, victim and other
witnesses including the complainant who is the father of victim, I think that
prosecution case would not develop, even if examine the other prosecution
witnesses, as they were no way supported the prosecution case. Speedy trial is the
right of the accused person. So, for to secure ends of justice, prosecution evidence is

closed.
Page |3

8. Accused is examined under Section 313 CrPC and the evidence
appears against the accused persons and the allegations made against the accused
person are put before me for his explanation where they denied the allegations and

declined to give defence evidence.

9. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned Counsel for
both the sides.
10. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) "Whether the accused, on or about 6 PM of
27-07-2017, near Dhalaguri LP_.School under
Dhekiajull PS, agreed with an unknown person to
do(or to cause to be done) an illegal act, to commit
penetrative sexual assault, (an.act which is not
legal or by illegal means and that the same act, viz
to penetrative sexual. assault, was done in
pursuance of the agreement0O and on the said day,
committed penetrative ‘sexual assault on Miss"X”
(14 years of age)..and thereby committed an
offence punishable,yunder Section 120-B of IPC,
t/w Section 4 of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

 

11. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidences on
record.
12. PW1- Sri Mahadeb Tudu, the complainant of this case deposed that

heknows both the accused persons as they are his co-villagers. He is the
complainant of this case. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his signature. The
incident took place on 27-07-2017. At the time of incident, his victim daughter Miss
“X” was 14 years old. She was studied at Class-IX standard. On the relevant day at
about 6 PM, his daughter asked her Rs/10/- for her marketing. Accordingly, he has
handed over Rs.10/- to her. Then she went to Balijan Market. At about 6.30 PM one
Dhiraj informed him that accused persons were apprehended by local public along
with his daughter at Dhalaguri LP School. Accordingly, he went to the said School

with “halowa-achari”. He heard that accused persons were apprehended by Sanjay
Page |4

Munda and Dhiraj Tudu and took them to the house of one Debra Hemrom. He also
went there. He slaps his daughter. Then he took his daughter to his house and while
he asked her about the incident, she becomes fainted. He called 108 ambulance and
took her to Jangalbosti PHC for her treatment. When she regains her sense, on being
enquiry, she told her that she was falsely implicated. In the next Sunday a village
meeting was held while the villagers advised him to file the case. Accordingly, he
filed this case. After instituting the case, his victim daughter was examined medically
and her statement was recorded by police as well as through the learned Magistrate
and then she was given custody to her. Police recorded his statement. While=police
recorded his statement, he has stated to IO that while victim returned from=market
from Balijan Chowk and while she reached near Dhalaguri LP. School, taking
advantage of darkness, accused Mustafa and Faruk Ali and another boy by gagging
her mouth dragged her towards the School and committed gang»rape to her. While
she raised alarm, they fled away. As he was busy in treatment’of his daughter, so, it
becomes delay in filing the ejahar.

In cross-examination, he admitted that he has not seen the incident
personally. His victim daughter did not tell-him_what he has stated to police. It is a
fact that he has made such statement.before the IO under the pressure of the
villagers. Actually his daughter toldshimsthat accused did not commit any bad act to
her. In fact he has slapped his daughter on being angered after hearing rumor from
other villagers. In fact there was no such incident took place. He further admitted
that Ext. 1 was written ‘by one scribe and he has only put his signature thereon. The
scribe did not read over ‘the contents of the ejahar to me neither it was written on

his instruction.

13. PW2- Sri Dip Hazarika deposed that he knows both the accused
persons as they are his co-villagers. He also knows the victim and her father who is
the complainant in this case. The incident took place about 9/10 months ago. He
heard that an incident took place near Dhalaguri LP School at about 6/7 PM. After
3/4 days of the said incident a village meeting was held for the said incident. He was
present there as a human right activist. Thereafter, the girl was admitted at 30
beded hospital at Dhekiajuli. The victim girl stated before the meeting that while she
returned from Balijan market, reached near the Dhalaguri LP School, accused
Mustafa and Faruk gagged her mouth, took her inside the LP school. She also stated

that accused persons committed rape on her. On being seen by Dhiraj and Sanjay
Page |5

she was recovered. The girl made such statement in presence of 150/200 villagers.

The girl was in between 14-16 year at the relevant time.

In cross-examination he admitted that he has not seen the incident

personally.

14. PW3- Krishna Kanta Mazhi deposed that he is a human right activist.
He knows both the accused Faruk and Mustafa. The incident took place in the month
of July,2017. He knows the complainant and victim of this case. He knows about the
incident after two days of the incident. He heard from the villagers that victim was
raped by accused Faruk and Mustafa.

In cross-examination, he stated that he has good relation with victim
and the complainant. While they enquired about the incident to, the complainant and
victim, they stated that the whole incident is false one, It is a’fact that some of the
villagers mislead the complainant to malice the victim girl and also to file the case
falsely implicating the accused persons. As a social\worker, he came to know lateron

that there is no such incident took place as alleged.

15. PW4- Sri Siba Kanta.Tudu turned hostile by the prosecution. The un-
hostile portion of his evidence is\that he knows both the accused persons who are
their co-villagers. He also knows the complainant as well as the victim of this case.
The incident took placevabout 10 months ago. On the day of incident, he was not
present in the village. In the next day, he came to know that while the victim was
talked to the accused persons, some people were apprehended them and scolded
them. Other than that he do not know anything about the incident. Police recorded
his statement. Then he turned hostile.

In cross-examination he stated that complainant Mahadeb is his elder
brother and the victim is his niece. Complainant and victim did not inform him about
the commission of rape by the accused persons. In fact, they informed him that
some villagers suspected his niece and that two accused persons of being involved in
some bad act and hence, they assaulted his niece “X”. Hearing such allegations from
the villagers, victim’s father got angered and he assaulted the victim. In fact there is
no such alleged rape incident took place. In fact, he never stated to IO that he has

heard that victim was raped by the accused persons.
Page |6

16. PW5- Smti Sunita Tudu also turned hostile by the prosecution. The
un-hostile portion of his evidence is that victim is her younger sister and at the
relevant time her victim sister was aged about 15 years of age. The incident took
place in the month of July. When her younger sister went back from Balijan Market
the incident took place. On hearing hulla near the Dhalaguri LP School, she went
there. She saw gathering in the school. She found her victim sister was trembling
and standing there. She slapped her twice. When her younger sister came to home,
she became senseless. Then they called ambulance and took her to the hospital.
When she regained her sense, she asked her but, she did not state anything*to, her.
When she was taken to their house, many people gathered there. Police,recorded
her statement. Then she turned hostile.

In cross-examination, she stated that due to misunderstanding of facts,
he r father filed the case against the accused persons and misunderstanding resulted
from the pressure and misleading information by some. villagers. She has not

deposed falsely to save the accused persons.

17. PW6- Sri Dhiraj Tudu who«also turned hostile by the prosecution
stated that victim is his niece. The incident.took place in the month of July. At that
time he was at Balijan Centre. When he heard hulla in the Dhalaguri LP School, he
goes forward to the said place and_came to know that his niece was talked with
some boy. Other than that there is no other incident took place.

In cross-examination, he stated that he has not seen any incident of
rape. His victim niece jalso did not state anything before him regarding any

commission of-any rape by any of the accused persons.

18. PW7- Miss “Xx”, the victim of this case on 27-07-2017 the incident
took place. At the relevant time, she was only 15 years old. The incident took place
about 6/6.30 PM. At the relevant time she was returning from Balijan Centre when
she reached near the Dhalaguri LP School, she met the accused persons and talked
for a while. She told them that she was came from Centre by bringing some
vegetables. Immediately, her uncle Dhiraj arrived there. On being seen her in talking
with the accused persons, he slap her and as a result, situation become hot. His
father has also arrived there. His father has also slapped her twice for talking with
the said two boys. On her arrival at home, she become senseless and so, she was

admitted at Hospital. In the next day her father filed this case against the accused.
Page |7

After instituting the case, she was medically examined and her statement was
recorded through the learned Magistrate. Ext.2 is the said statement and Ext.2
(1),2(2) and 2(3) are her signatures.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she talked normally with accused
Faruk. Other than normal talk, she did not make any other talk. Neither accused
committed any misdeed to her. As she talked with the two boys in a remote area, so,
local people raised objection. At the instigation of local public, her father filed this
false case. She clearly stated that her father due to misunderstanding filed this case.
Accused persons did not commit any misdeed to her neither rape her. “At, the
pressure and instigation of local public she made such statement before thelearned
Magistrate as the local public stated that if she did not make«such statement
according to their instructions they would be driven out their family from the village.
That is why, in Ext.2, she made such false statement. Infact, there was no such
incident took place. At present, she has no objection,,even if the accused persons

are enlarged on acquittal, in fact due to ascent and fear:she lost her sense.

19, These much is the prosecution evidence.

20. The accused persons-denied their allegations while their statement are
recorded under Section 313 of the CrPC.

21. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned Counsel for

both the parties.

22. Learned Counsel for the accused submitted that prosecution has failed
to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. As the victim girl herself giving good
bye to.the prosecution by stating that her father has falsely filed this case against
the-accused persons. Besides, she clearly stated that they are innocent persons, so,
she has no objection even if the enlarged them on acquittal. Her father i.e. the

complainant also stated so in the Court. Learned PP also conceded.

23. To prove the charge under Section 4 of POCSO Act, prosecution must

prove —

Penetrative Sexual Assault. A person is said to commit “Penetrative sexual

Assault’ if -
Page |8

"a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina,
mouth urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person;

b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body,
not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

Cc) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to
cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body or
the child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra
or the child to do so to such person or any other person’.

24. In this type of cases, the evidence of victim is much moresimportant.
Here in this case, PW7-the victim, prosecutrix nowhere stated that accused persons
committed penetrative sexual assault to her. She even clearly ‘stated that accused
persons did not commit any misdeed to her. She only talked. with them. She further
stated that though she made statement before the learned Magistrate under Section
164 CrPC, but, that statement was made at/the instigation of villagers as the
villagers threatened her to driven their family from the village if she did not made
statement as their instruction. She clearly\stated that i.e why she resolved to make
false statement. As stated above, victim nowhere stated that accused committed any
of the ingredients as defined in Section 3(a),(b),(c) & (d). Besides that, father of the
victim i.e. the complainant of this case himself gives good bye to the prosecution
case stating that his victim daughter did not told her what he had stated to police.
He also stated that it is’a fact that he has made such statement before the IO under
the pressure of.villagers. Actually, the victim told her that accused did not commit
any bad act-to her. He also stated that in fact, he has slapped his daughter on being
angered~after hearing the rumour from other villagers. In fact, there is no such
incident took place. As such the complainant has also no way supported the

prosecution case.

25. Under such circumstances, when the case is not supported by the
victim and the complainant, so, it would be futile to drag the case by seeking ay
other evidence, particularly the IO. Therefore, none of the ingredient of the alleged
charged is proved by prosecution. Hence, charge under Section 4 of POCSO Act, r/w
Section 120-B of the IPC is failed.
Page |9

26. On careful perusal of the whole case record, it appears that
prosecution has categorically failed to prove the alleged charge against the accused
persons. Hence, I do not have any hesitation to acquit the accused. Accordingly,
accused persons Mustafa Ali and Faruk Ahmed are acquitted and set them at
liberty forthwith.

27 The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

28. Send back the LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this.\the’21* day of
May, 2018.

(A. K. Borah)

Special Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Dictated and corrected by me.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno:
Page |10

APPENDIX

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Sri Mahadeb Tudu, Complainant,
2.PW2 — Sri Dip Hazarika,

3.PW3 — Sri Krishna Kanta Mazhi,

4.PW4 — Sri Siba Kanta Tudu,

5.PW5 — Smti Sunita Tudu,

6.PW6 — Sri Dhiraj Tudu &

7.PW2 — Miss “X” (victim).

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

1. Ext. 1 : The ejahar.
2. Ext. 2 : Statement of the victim recorded.under Section 164 CrPC.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
