CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 3/16

Informant: Y",

Accused: Sri Dnhumba Bhumij @ Biswanath Bhumij,
R/o- Kasuwani Pather Gaon,
PS- Rahmaria,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor;
Mrs. Sahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri MP Todi, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 3/16
G.R. Case No. 3220/15

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Dnhumba Bhumij @ Biswanath Bhumij

Charges: Under Section 4 of the PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 18-03-16, 18-05-16, 16-06-16 and 10-04-17.
Date of argument : 19-01-18.
Date of Judgment —_: 21-06-19.

1)

2)

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in a narrow compass is that Sri Dhumba Bhumij @
Biswanath Bhumij (hereinafter the accused person) kidnapped the victim 'X'
on 30-11-15 at about 5:00 pm from her house and hid her in his own house.
The victim's parents frantically searched for her and they confronted the
accused and at about 8:00 pm, the victim was brought out of the accused
person’s house. When the victim was brought back, she informed her family
members that the accused committed rape on her. An ejahar regarding this
incident was lodged by the victim’s father 'Y' which was registered as
Rahmaria PS Case No. 51/15 under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code
(IPC for short), read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act for short).

The investigation officer (IO for short) embarked upon the investigation. He
went to the place of occurrence and recorded the statements of the

witnesses. He recorded the statement of the victim and forwarded her to the
3)

4)

5)

6)

Magistrate who recorded her statement under Section 164 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure (CrPC for short). The victim was also forwarded to the
medical officer (MO in short) for medical examination. On finding prima facie
materials against the accused person, the IO submitted Charge-Sheet against
the accused under Sections 376 IPC, read with Section 4 POCSO Act.
On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
the sides, a formal charge under Section 4 POCSO Act was framed, read over
and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and claimed
innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of eight
witnesses including the MO and the IO. On the inculpatory circumstances
arising against him, the tone and tenor of the accused person to the
questions under Section 313(1)(b) CrPC depicts a plea of total denial.
Submissions:

The learned Public Prosecutor Smt. Runumi Devi and the learned Additional
Public Prosecutor Mrs. Sahnaz Akhtar laid stress in their arguments that this
is an open and shut case and the accused deserves stringent punishment. On
the contrary, the learned defence counsel laid stress in his argument that the
victim’s father has not lodged the FIR. The ejahar is contradictory to the
evidence. According to the cross-examination of PW-1, she worked for two
years in the garden. It is also submitted that the cross-examination of the
victim’s mother depicts that the victim was not a minor, but she was a major,
above 18/19 years.

Points for determination:
The following point is sufficient to adjudicate this case:

i. Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim 'X'?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

7) The victim 'X' testified as PW-1 that the accused is her neighbour. The

8)

incident occurred about two years ago. On the relevant evening, at about
5:00 pm, she went out to the nearby jungle from the house to bring back the
cattle that were grazing in the jungle. When she untied the rope, the accused
came from behind and gagged her by her mouth and forcefully took her
towards the jungle. She tried to scream, but failed, as her mouth was
covered. Then the accused committed rape on her by removing her clothes.
She did not sustain any injury. The accused again put on her clothes and took
her to his house and kept her in the room inside his house. She met the
accused person’s wife. The accused kept her in his house stating that he will
marry her and so he went to their house and informed her mother that he
had kept her in his house. Her mother refused and assaulted the accused
with a stick. Then the accused brought her back from his house to her house.
She informed her mother about the incident and her mother informed her
father about the incident. On the following day, she went to the Rahmaria
Police Station and her father lodged an FIR with the police. The police took
her to the Assam Medical College & Hospital at Dibrugarh. She was also
forwarded to the Court for recording her statement.

In her cross-examination, she testified that she is a temporary worker of
Dhalajan Tea Estate and has been working in the garden for the last two
years. She did know her age and she could not say if her present age is 20
years. She testified in her cross-examination that the accused did not commit
sexual intercourse in his house. When the accused took him to his house, he

found his wife, his bother, his two minor children and parents in his house.
9)

He told his family members that he would marry her. She remained in his
house for 4/5 hours. She did not raise alarm in his house. She was kept in his
prayer room. The accused also informed her mother that he had kept her in
his house, but her mother refused his proposal. When her mother refused his
proposal to marry her, the accused took her back from his house to her house
and handed her over to her mother. She further testified in her cross-
examination that her father agreed to withdraw this case, but some villagers
advised him against it. She has admitted in her cross-examination that she
voluntarily went with the accused when he proposed to marry her.

The evidence of the victim clearly depicts that she stayed in the accused
person’s house, expecting that she will be allowed to marry him. She stayed
there for 4/5 hours and when her mother refused the accused person's
proposal, the accused brought her back to her house. The accused was
already a married person. The evidence of PW-1 does not inspire confidence.
It is clear that she had consensual physical relationship with the accused
person. She tried to clear her image by shifting the burden to the accused
person. Her conduct reveals that despite knowing that the accused is a
married man, she tried to impose herself into his house and acted as a home

breaker.

10) 'Y' testified as PW-2 that the accused person is his neighbour and the victim

'X' is his daughter who is about 15 years of age. The incident occurred about
three months back (from 18-03-16). On the relevant evening, when he
reached home about 7:00 pm, his wife informed him that the accused
dragged his daughter 'X' to the nearby jungle when she went out to bring
back cattle from the jungle. After a frantic search, his wife found his daughter

in the jungle. After ten minutes, when his wife reached home with his
daughter and when his daughter was confronted, 'X' told them that she was
dragged away. His wife told him that she found their daughter in the jungle.
'X' told them that the accused person gagged her and dragged her away and
committed rape on her in the jungle. On the next morning, he informed his
neighbour about the incident and his neighbour advised him to go to
Rahmaria Police Station. Then his wife, his daughter and he went to the
police station.

11) The informant is not an eye-witness. He heard from his wife and daughter
about the incident. His wife found his daughter in the jungle, while his
daughter testified as PW-1 that the accused brought her back to her house.
The evidence of PW-1 is not found to be reliable and this contradiction also
belies her evidence.

12)He further testified in his cross-examination that no minors are allowed to
work in the tea garden.

13)It has already been held in my foregoing discussions, that the evidence of
PW-1 does not inspire confidence and the contradiction apparent in the
evidence of PWs-1 and 2 casts a shadow of doubt over the veracity of their
evidence. The victim testified in her cross-examination that she cannot say if
she is above 20 years. It is clear from the evidence of PWs-1 and 2 that the
victim is a tea garden worker which indicates that the victim is not a minor.

14) 'Z' testified as PW-3 that the accused is his neighbour. The incident occurred
about three months ago. On the day of incident, she was in her house and 'X'
went to the jungle. As 'X' did not return, she searched for her daughter and
went to the accused person’s house twice. The accused and his wife denied
that her daughter was in his house and the accused stated that he will search

for 'X', but she (PW-3) did not believe him and caned him twice with a stick.
Meanwhile, the other people learnt about their missing daughter. They went
to the accused person’s house and recovered 'X' from the Pooja room and
they handed over 'X' to her. On being confronted, 'X' informed her that she
went to being back the cattle and the accused dragged her to the jungle and
forcefully committed rape on her and then took her to his house. Then she
went to Lakhiram’s house and informed him about the incident. He wrote an
ejahar according to her daughter’s narrative. Then she along with her
daughter went to Rahmaria Police Station.

15) PW-1 testified that the accused person brought her back from his house to
her house, while, on the contrary, PW-3 testified that the local villagers
brought 'X' back from the accused person’s house to her house. As the
witnesses are not truthful, so this case is replete with contradictions. The
ejahar contains 'Y's name, while 'Z' testified that Lakhiram wrote the ejahar
for her and then she and her daughter went to the police station and lodged
the ejahar. It is not clear who lodged the ejahar with the police. PW-3 also
admitted in her cross-examination that she could not recall her daughter’s
date of birth and her daughter was working at Dholajan Tea Estate for the
last two years.

16) Sri Nipen Tanti testified as PW-4 that about five months ago, a meeting was
convened in Oakland. He came to know that 'Y's daughter had physical
relationship with the accused person and so the meeting was held. He also
learnt that both the parties settled their dispute.

17) Thus, truth prevails. It is clear from the evidence of PW-4 that 'X' had
consensual sex with the accused person.

18) Sri Pradip Karmakar testified as PW-5 that the incident occurred about four

months ago. On the 2" day of the incident, 'X's father held a meeting in the
house of Rupa Bhumij, but no decision was taken in the meeting. So 'X'
lodged the ejahar.

19) The evidence of PW-5 also does not implicate that the accused is complicit.

20) In view of my foregoing discussions, it is held that the evidence of PW-1 does
not inspire confidence. She was terrified of her mother and so she voluntarily
implicated the accused to save her skin.

21) The IO Sri Kateswar Sharma testified as PW-6 that on 14-11-15, he was the
2™¢ Officer at Rahmaria Police Station. On that day, he received an FIR from
'Y' and registered Rahmaria PS Case No. 51/15 under Section 376 IPC, read
with Section 4 POCSO Act and he embarked upon the investigation. After
completion of investigation, he submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused
Ext. 3 wherein Ext. 3(1) is his signature. Ext. 1 is the FIR and Ext. 1(1) is his
signature. Ext. 2 is the Sketch-Map and Ext. 2(1) is his signature.

22) The cross-examination of the IO depicts that 'X' did not state before him that
the accused took her to the jungle and undressed her and committed rape on
her in the jungle.

23)Thus, it is clear that the victim’s testimony in the Court is contradictory to
her testimony under Section 16a CrPC. She has not implicated the accused
under Section 161 CrPC, but she has come out with new facts in the Court.
Her mother also omitted to state under Section 161 CrPC that the accused
committed rape on her daughter in his house. These are the major
contradictions which exonerates the accused person.

24)Smti. Priyanka Hazarika Nair is a Judicial Magistrate who recorded the
statement of the victim under Section 164 CrPC. She testified as PW-7 that
on 16-11-15, while working as Judicial Magistrate at Dibrugarh, she recorded

the statement of the victim 'X'. Ext. 2 is her statement and Ext. 2(2) is her
signature. The victim’s statement was recorded in connection with this case.

25)The statement of the victim under Section 164 CrPC is similar to her
testimony in the Court, but it has already been held in my foregoing
discussions that the victim's evidence is not found to be reliable.

26) The MO's evidence depicts that no evidence of sexual intercourse could be
detected on examination of the victim. Dr. Mohsina Ahmed testified as PW-8
that on 15-11-15, she examined the victim in connection with this case and
found the following:

i. Actual age of the victim is above 14 years and below 16
years;
ii. There is no evidence of recent sexual intercourse on her
person;
iii. | There is no recent injury on her person;
iv. There is evidence of pregnancy on her person.
In column 20(c), it is mentioned that there are old tears at 3, 5
and 7 O’ position which suggests that the victim 'X' has past
history of sexual penetration.
Ext. 13 is the Medico-legal Report and Ext. 3(1) upto Ext. 3(3)
are the signatures of the MO.

27) No injuries were detected on her person, but the victim was pregnant.

28) Thus, it is clear that the victim indulged in consensual sexual intercourse with
the accused. She was terrified, because she was pregnant and so she shifted
the entire blame on the accused. She was also eager to marry to the
accused person, despite the fact that he was already a married man, but
when her mother was infuriated by the accused person’s proposal, she

shifted the burden on the accused person to save her own skin.
10

29)I would like to reiterate that the evidence of the victim does not inspire
confidence. Two years on the higher side of the victim's age is stretched to
extend the benefit of doubt to the accused person. The victim is held to be
above 18 years. The MO has opined that the victim was above 14 years and
below 16 years. After adding two years on the higher side, it is held that the
victim was around 18 years of age and she willingly had sexual intercourse
with the accused person on her own consent.

30)It is thereby held that the prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable
doubt that the accused committed offence under Section 4 of the PCSO Act
and thereby, the accused Sri Dhumba Bhumij @ Biswanath Bhumij is
acquitted from the charges under Section 4 POCSO Act on benefit of doubt
and is set at liberty forthwith.

31) Bail bond stands cancelled.

32) The victim does not deserve compensation.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 21% day of

June, 2019.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
11

APPENDIX
POCSO Case No. 3/16

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 The victim 'X';
2. PW-2 The informant;
3. PW-3 The mother of the victim;
4. PW-4 Sri Nipen Tanti;
5. PW-5 Sri Pradip Karmakar;
6. PW-6 Sri Kateswar Sharma;
7. PW-7 Smti. Priyanka Hazarika Nair; and
8. PW-8 Dr. Mohsina Ahmed.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Ejahar;
2. Ext. 2 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
3. Ext. 3 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
