1 Special (POCSO) Case No.13/2017.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE : LAKHIMPUR :
AT NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

PRESENT-  M.A.Choudhury,
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.13/2017.
Under Section - 342 IPC and under Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

PARTIES

State of Assam. ... Complainant.
-versus-

Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai. ... Accused.

ADVOCATES APPEARED IN THE CASE :

Mr. Madhab Gogoi, Special Public Prosecutor. ... For the State of Assam.

Mr. Arup Bora, Advocate. ... For the Accused.

Date of framing of charge. : 17.05.2017.

Dates of taking evidence. : 28.11.2017, 04.06.2018, 08.10.2018
and 12.02.2019.

Date of hearing Argument. : 23.05.2019.

Date of delivery of Judgment. =: 06.06.2019.

UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution side may, in brief, be
described thus :

The informant, Smti Mamoni Chutia on 19.03.2017
lodged an ejahar with Chaoldhowa Police Out Post under Boginadi
Police Station to the effect that the accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai
was an Assistant Teacher of Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School of her village.

Contd...
2 Special (POCSO) Case No.13/2017.

Her daughter victim X, a minor girl was reading in class-lll in the
aforesaid school at the time of occurrence. On 17.03.2017, her
daughter victim X went to the school and after coming back from the
school, the victim X stopped speaking with others and she was found
depressed. On the following day, she asked her daughter victim X what
had happened with her. Then, the victim X stated to her that on the
previous day at about 10 am, while she was in the school, the accused,
Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai got the victim X entered into the toilet of
Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School and tried to commit rape upon her person
by gagging her mouth.

2. On receiving the ejahar, the In-charge of
Chaoldhowa Police Out Post made a G.D. entry of the same vide
Chaoldhowa Police Out Post GDE No.332 dtd. 19.03.2017 and
forwarded the ejahar to the Officer-in-charge of Boginadi Police Station
for registering a case under proper sections of Law. On receiving the
ejahar, the Officer-in-charge of Boginadi Police Station registered a
case vide Boginadi PS. Case No.51/2017 under Section 342 IPC RW
Sec.8 of the POCSO Act.

3. The police started the investigation of the case.
In course of investigation, the 1.0. visited the place of occurrence i.e.,
Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School, Rupahi Rajgarh Gaon under Boginadi Police
Station and prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence. The
1.0. arrested the accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai and forwarded him
before the court. The victim X had been forwarded to the doctor of
North Lakhimpur Civil Hospital for her medical examination and
accordingly, the medical examination of the victim X had been done at
North Lakhimpur Civil Hospital. The victim X was, thereafter, forwarded
to the court for recording her statement u/s 164 CrPC, and accordingly
the statement of the victim X was recorded u/s 164 CrPC. The I.O.
recorded the statements of the witnesses u/s 161 CrPC. The I.O. after
completion of investigation of the case on being found sufficient

Contd...
3 Special (POCSO) Case No.13/2017.

incriminating materials against the accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai
under Section 342 IPC RW Sec.8 of the POCSO Act, accordingly
submitted the charge-sheet against the accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan
Rai under Section 342 IPC RW Sec.8 of the POCSO Act.

4. The accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai made his
appearance before the court and necessary copies were furnished to
him. After hearing the learned advocates of both sides and perusing
the case record, on being found sufficient materials against the
accused person under Section 342 IPC and under Section 8 of the
POCSO Act in the case record, the charges under Section 342 IPC and
under Section 8 of the POCSO Act had been framed against the
accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai. The charges were read over and
explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.

5. In course of trial, the prosecution side examined
9 (nine) witnesses including the Medical Officer and the Investigating
Officer of the case.

6. The statement of the accused person had been
recorded u/s 313 CrPC, which is a total denial of commission of any

offence.

7. The accused person led no evidence in his
defence.

8. Heard Argument from the learned advocates of
both sides.

9. Perused the case record and the evidence
adduced by the prosecution witnesses in the case very carefully.

10. The points for determination in this case are :
Contd...
4 Special (POCSO) Case No.13/2017.

(1) Whether the accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai on
17.03.2017 at about 10 am at Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School under
Boginadi Police Station, Dist. Lakhimpur, wrongfully confined the victim
X, a minor girl in the toilet of the aforesaid school?

(Il) Whether the accused person after confining the
victim X, a minor girl in the toilet of Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School under
Boginadi Police Station, Dist. Lakhimpur, committed sexual assault on
the person of the victim X?

11. DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

The prosecution side examined 9 (nine) witnesses.

PW.1, Smti Mamoni Chutia is the informant of the
case as well as mother of the victim X. PW.1, Smti Mamoni Chutia in
her evidence stated that the occurrence had taken place about 7
months back. At the time of occurrence, her daughter victim X was
reading in class-lll at Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School. She also stated that
the accused person is the Asstt. Teacher of Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. school.
From her evidence, it is appeared that she had not seen the
occurrence. From her evidence, it is found that she came to know that
at the time of occurrence, her daughter victim X went to the toilet of
the school for urinating. Then, the accused person went to the toilet
and due to fear, her daughter victim X climbed over the wall and then,
two boys arrived there and rescued her daughter victim X. Thereafter,
her elder sister, Smti Mousumi and her son, Sri Bitu Gogoi took her
daughter victim X into her house. She in her evidence also stated that
the victim X did not state anything to her and she was crying. She in
her evidence also stated that her mother on seeing the condition of
the victim X told that the victim X might be attacked by ghost. She in
her evidence also stated that on the following day, the victim X had
not gone to the school. She also stated that subsequently, the victim X
stated to her that at the time of occurrence, she went to urinate, but

Contd...
5 Special (POCSO) Case No.13/2017.

on seeing the accused person, she was shocked and climbed over the
wall. She in her evidence also stated that she had lodged the case
against the accused person as she suspected that the accused person
might have attempted to do some bad acts with the victim X. She in
her cross-examination stated that she lodged the ejahar against the
accused person on suspicion.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.1, Smti Mamoni
Chutia, the informant of the case as well as mother of the victim X. On
a careful scrutiny of her evidence, | do not find any incriminating
material in her evidence against the accused person for committing
any offence.

PW.2 is the victim X. PW.2, the victim X in her
evidence stated that the accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai is the Asstt.
teacher of her school. She also stated that one day, she went to the
toilet of their school for urinating. Then, she found the accused there
and due to fear, she climbed over the wall, but at that time, two boys
namely 'Dou' and 'Pitou' saw her and they brought her down from the
wall. She in her evidence also stated that thereafter, her elder brother,
Manjit took her to the house. She also stated that she had informed
the matter to her mother. She in her evidence also stated that the
accused had not done anything wrong with her. She also stated that
her parents thought that she had been attacked by ghost.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.2, the victim X.
On a careful scrutiny of her evidence, | do not find any incriminating
material in her evidence against the accused person for committing

any offence.

PW.3, Sri Pranjal Pratim Bhuyan in his evidence
stated that he knows the accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai, who is the
teacher of Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School, which is situated in their village.
He in his evidence also stated that he came to know the victim X while

Contd...
6 Special (POCSO) Case No.13/2017.

she was reading in Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School. He in his evidence also
stated that the occurrence had taken place about one year back. He
also stated that at the time of occurrence, he was reading in class-V at
Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School. He in his evidence also stated that at the
time of occurrence, the accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai was in the
office room. He also stated that he along with one Rahul Tani came out
from the class room to answer nature's call. At that time, they saw the
victim X was lying over the partition wall of the urinal of the school.
Then, they informed their teacher accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai
regarding the matter. Then, the accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai came
and took the victim X into the office room of the school by taking her
on his lap. Thereafter, the accused person called Bitu, the brother of
the victim X, who was also reading in the aforesaid school at that time.
He in his evidence also stated that then the accused person sent the
victim X in her house along with her brother, Bitu.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.3, Sri Pranjal
Pratim Bhuyan. On a careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not find any
incriminating material in his evidence against the accused person for

committing any offence.

PW.4, Sri Rahul Tani in his evidence stated that he
had read up to class-VIIl at Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School, and the
accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai was the teacher of that school. He
also stated that he left Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School in the year, 2017. He
in his evidence also stated that he knows the victim X, whose house is
situated nearby his house. He also stated that the occurrence had
taken place about one year back. At the time of occurrence, he was
reading in class-V at Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School. He in his evidence also
stated that at the time of occurrence, the victim X was reading in
class-lll in Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School. He also stated that at the time of
occurrence, he was in Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School. At the time of
occurrence, he and his classmate, PW.3 Sri Pranjal Pratim Bhuyan
came out from the class to answer nature's call. While they went to

Contd...
7 Special (POCSO) Case No.13/2017.

urinate in the urinal of the school, they saw the victim X had fallen
down over the partition wall of the urinal of the school. Then, he along
with PW.3 Sri Pranjal Pratim Bhuyan came to the accused, Sri Mohan
Bhushan Rai and narrated the incident. Then, the accused Sri Mohan
Bhushan Rai came to the urinal and took the victim X to the office
room by taking her on his lap from the wall of the urinal of the school.
Thereafter, the accused person sent the victim X to her house. He in
his evidence also stated that when they went to urinate in the urinal,
at that time, the accused Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai was in the office
room of the school. He also stated that on the following day while he
was playing in the school, at that time, the victim X was also there and
she stated that on the previous day, she was attacked by ghost in the
school.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.4, Sri Rahul
Tani. On a careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not find any
incriminating material in his evidence against the accused person for

committing any offence.

PW.5 is Sri Raj Kumar Rai, who is the President of
the School Managing Committee of Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School. PW.5,
Sri Raj Kumar Rai stated in his evidence that in the year, 2017, he was
the President of Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School. He also stated that the
accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai is the Asstt. Teacher of Rupahi
Rajgarh L.P. School. He in his evidence also stated that he knows the
victim X, who is the daughter of Smti Mamoni Chutia. He also stated
that about one year back one day, Sri Bipin Mudoi, the headmaster of
Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School called on him and requested to visit Rupahi
Rajgarh L.P. School. Accordingly, after 2 days, he went to Rupahi
Rajgarh L.P. School, and then the headmaster, Sri Bipin Mudoi stated to
him that he had heard that an awkward incident had taken place in the
school few days ago between Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai and one student
of the school, the victim X. He in his evidence also stated that then, he
enquired about the matter by interrogating the students and teachers

Contd...
8 Special (POCSO) Case No.13/2017.

of the school. He in his evidence also stated that the students of the
school stated that the victim X on the date of occurrence was lying on
the partition wall of the urinal of the school, and on getting the
information of the same, the accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai went
there and took the victim X into the office room of the school. He in his
evidence also stated that the students stated to him that the accused
person had not done anything. He also stated that the students stated
to him that the victim X had been attacked by the ghost.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.5, Sri Raj
Kumar Rai. On a careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not find any
incriminating material in his evidence against the accused person for

committing any offence.

PW.6, Smti Rupali Bora is the cook of Rupahi
Rajgarh L.P. School. PW.6, Smti Rupali Bora in her evidence stated that
the accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai is the Asstt. Teacher of Rupahi
Rajgarh L.P. School. She also stated that the victim X, who was a minor
girl had been reading in Rupahi Rajgarh School. She in her evidence
also stated that the occurrence had taken place about one year back.
On the date of occurrence, she was working in Rupahi Rajgarh School
as cook. She also stated that she had not heard anything in the school
as on the date of occurrence, she was busy with her duty. She in her
evidence also stated that she had left the school in the evening, some
one had stated to her, whether she knows that accused, Sri Mohan
Bhushan Rai had committed sexual offence with the victim X. She in
her evidence also stated that she did not know anything as she was
busy with her own duty i.e., cooking food in the school. She also stated
that thereafter, she came to know from the people of her village that
the incident of sexual offence that had been aired involving the
accused, Sri Mohan Bhushan Rai and the victim X, was false.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.6, Smti Rupali
Bora. On a careful scrutiny of her evidence, | do not find any
incriminating material in her evidence against the accused person for
committing any offence.

Contd...
9 Special (POCSO) Case No.13/2017.

PW.7 is Sri Manashjyoti Gogoi, who is a minor boy.
PW.7, Sri Manashjyoti Gogoi in his evidence stated that he has been
reading in Rupahi Rajgarh Adivasi M.E. School in class-Vl. He also
stated that in the previous year, he was reading in Rupahi Rajgarh L.P.
School in class-V. He also stated that he knows the victim X as the
victim X was reading in class-lll in Rupahi Rajgarh L.P. School while he
was in class-V in that school. He in his evidence also stated that the
occurrence had taken place about one year back. He also stated that
on the date of occurrence, the school was open and he along with
other students were in the school. The victim X was also in the school.
At about 10 am, he went to the urinal of the school. Then, he saw the
victim X on the partition wall of the urinal of the school. He also stated
that he instantly informed the matter to the accused, Sri Mohan
Bhushan Rai, who is the teacher of the school. Then, the accused Sri
Mohan Bhushan Rai came and took the victim X to the office room of
the school. He in his evidence also stated that thereafter the victim X
was sent to her house along with Bitu, a student of their school.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.7, Sri
Manashjyoti Gogoi. On a careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not find
any incriminating material in his evidence against the accused person
for committing any offence.

PW.8 is Dr. Mousumi Saikia, who had medically
examined the victim X. From her evidence, it is found that after
examination of the victim X, she did not find any sign of recent sexual

intercourse and sign of any external injury.

PW.9, SI Priyabrat Gogoi is the Investigating Officer
of the case, who had investigated the case and submitted the charge-
sheet against the accused person.

The consideration of the evidence of PW.9, the I.O.

SI Priyabrat Gogoi is not necessary in view of the evidence adduced by
the prosecution witnesses examined as mentioned here-in-above.

Contd...
10 Special (POCSO) Case No.13/2017.

12. Because of what have been discussed and
pointed out here-in-above, it is appeared that the prosecution side has
totally failed to prove the charges under Section 342 IPC and under
Section 8 of the POCSO Act brought against the accused, Sri Mohan
Bhushan Rai. The accused person deserves to be acquitted.

13. I, therefore, hold the accused, Sri Mohan
Bhushan Rai not guilty and acquit him from the charges under Section
342 IPC and under Section 8 of the POCSO Act. The accused person is
set at his liberty forthwith.

14. The bail bond of the accused person is
cancelled and his surety is discharged.

15. Given under my hand and seal of this court on
this the 6" day of June, 2019.

( M. A. Choudhury )
Special Judge,

Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Dictated & corrected by me -

( M.A.Choudhury )
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by-
Sri Satyabrata Kshattry, Stenographer.

APPENDIX
1. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE :

PW.1 - Smti Mamoni Chutia, the mother of the victim X as well as
informant of the case.
PW.2 - Victim X.

Contd...
11 Special (POCSO) Case No.13/2017.

PW.3 - Sri Pranjal Pratim Bhuyan.

PW.4 - Sri Rahul Tani.

PW.5 - Sri Raj Kumar Rai.

PW.6 - Smti Rupali Bora.

PW.7 - Sri Manash Jyoti Gogoi.

PW.8 - Dr. Mousumi Saikia, the M.O. of the case.
PW.9 - SI Priyabrat Gogoi, the |.O. of the case.

2. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE :
Nil.

3. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE IN THE CASE :
Ext.1 - Ejahar.

Ext.2 - Medical Examination Report.

Ext.3 - Sketch map of the place of occurrence.

Ext.4 - Charge-sheet.

4. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE IN THE CASE :
Nil.

(M. A. Choudhury )
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
