 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 05 (T) of 2019
U/s 6 of the POCSO Act
The State of ASSAM — aa caeececceeceeeeeeeenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Suraj Tanti,
S/o- Lt. Sundra Tanti
R/o- Khobang Norshing Mandir Line
P.S- Doomdooma

District- Tinsukia, ASSAM he ecececeeseseeeaeenees Accused.

Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,
Spl. Public Prosecutor —.......... For the State
Munna Kr. Singh,
Advocate i haeeeeteteeteentees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 25/09/2019
Date of Judgment: 01/10/2019
J} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

Li The prosecution case revolves around rape upon a 12
year old minor orphan. Because of the demise of her parents,
she used to reside at Misimikota in the house of her aunt, who
is the wife of the elder brother of her deceased father.

2 The accused Suraj Tanti (herein after referred to as the
accused only) is the younger brother of the deceased father of
the victim girl. He resides at Khobang Tea Estate area. A few
days prior to Magh Bihu, this year the accused brought the
victim to his house for helping his ailing wife.

3. It is alleged that one day, the accused had removed the
wearing apparels of the victim girl, then pressed her breasts
and thereby removed her pants and inserted his penis into her
vagina. It is further alleged that the accused had sexually
assaulted the victim girl like that on four days.

4. The victim did not tell Geeta Tanti, the wife of the
accused about the aforesaid incident. She, however, informed
one ASHA worker named Anima Tanti about the aforesaid fact
and she transmitted the message to the Child Welfare Office.
They came and sent the victim to the Orphanage. One woman
from the Orphanage brought the victim girl to the Police
Station and had one ejahar written lodged by her. In the
ejahar, the victim had put her thumb impression.

5 During the period of investigation, the victim girl was
subjected to medical examination. Doctor found that the
hymen of the victim was torn, but apart from that, there were
no marks of any injury on her private parts or other parts of
the body. The Doctor opined that as per the radiological
examination, the age of the victim girl would be about 9 to 11
years.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

6. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused in between 18/01/2019 to 01/02/2019
had committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon

the victim?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as seven
witnesses, including the Doctor who examined the victim girl
during the period of investigation and the Police Investigating
Officer. The defence plea is total denial.

8. | have carefully gone through the prosecution
evidences.
9. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up

the evidence of the victim girl. She has supported the

prosecution story in her examination-in-chief.

10. During cross examination, she has stated that she did
not know the name of the lady, who had taken her to the
Police Station. She has stated that the aforesaid woman had
written the ejahar for her. The victim has also stated that the
aforesaid woman after writing the ejahar did not read over the
contents thereof to her. She denied the fact that on being
tutored by the aforesaid lady, she gave her statement u/s 164
Cr.PC. The victim also denied the fact that before giving
statement to police, she was tutored by the aforesaid lady. The
victim disclosed before the defence counsel that she actually
informed the wife of the accused about his acts, but she did
not believe her.

Li, Now, | shall take up the evidence of Lachina Kalandi.
She is a teacher by profession. She is also a member of Child
Protection Committee. Lachina Kalandi has stated in her
evidence that one day she was making survey of school
dropping students and at that time, she met the victim girl.
She has stated that the victim girl told her that the accused
had committed penetrative sexual assault upon her on some
occasions. Lachina Kalandi has stated that she informed the
Child Protection Committee and thereafter the victim was
taken away from the house of the accused.

12. In her cross examination, Lachina Kalandi has stated
that she did not make any statement before police, as she had
done in the court. She denied that she was telling an
imaginary story.

13. The witness Jinti Gogoi is the Superintendent of Keshab
Gogoi Surjudaya Children Home, where the victim girl resided
after she was rescued by the Child Line. Jinti Gogoi has stated
that the victim told her that just prior to Magh Bihu, she was
raped by the accused. Jinti Gogoi has quoted the victim girl as
telling her that she was raped by the accused on four

occasions.
14. The accused declined to cross examine this witness.

15. The witness Purnima Kalandi is a member of Child
Protection Committee and she has stated in her evidence that
in a meeting of the Committee, she came to know about the
victim girl and about the fact that she was raped by the
accused.
16. During cross examination, the witness Purnima Kalandi
stated that she did not state before police that she came to
know about the occurrence in the meeting of the Child
Protection Committee. Purnima Kalandi has stated before the
defence counsel that she never talked to the victim girl and
therefore, she could not vouch for the authenticity of the

occurrence.

17. Now, | shall take up the evidence of Geeta Tanti. She is
the wife of the accused. She has stated in her evidence that
the victim is the daughter of the deceased elder brother of her
husband. Geeta Tanti has claimed that the victim has been
residing in her house since her childhood. Geeta Tanti has
stated that the victim never told her that her husband had
ever committed bad sexual act upon her.

18. During cross examination, Geeta Tanti has stated that
being a housewife, she always remains in the house and she
has never seen any such occurrence, as alleged by the victim.
She has stated that she was not maintaining a good
relationship with ASHA worker Anima Tanti, as because Anima
Tanti used to tell false stories to different persons.

19. The last prosecution witness is Someswar Bora, the
Police Investigating Officer. He spoke about the investigation
of the case.

20. At the time of his examination u/s 313 Cr.PC, the
accused has claimed that the victim girl has been staying in
his house since her childhood. He denied all other allegations.

21. Here in this case, a question arises as to why the victim
girl would bring a false allegation against her own uncle.
Geeta Tanti, the wife of the accused has claimed that her
family did not have good relationship with ASHA worker Anima
Tanti, about whom the victim girl referred to in her
examination. The ASHA worker Anima Tanti was not examined
to prove that fact. No evidence has been adduced to that
effect to prove that the family of the accused was really
maintaining a strained relationship with Anima Tanti.

22. There is nothing in the cross examination of the victim
girl to disbelieve her. Similarly, the cross examination portion
of the evidence of Lachina Kalandi also does not have
anything to disbelieve her.

23. The Apex Court in Rai Sandeep v. State (NCT of
Delhi), (2012) 8 SCC 21 the Supreme Court examined as to
when the prosecutrix can be called to be a “sterling witness"
as under:

"22. In our considered opinion, the "sterling witness" should be
of a very high quality and calibre whose version should,
therefore, be unassailable. The court considering the version
of such witness should be in a position to accept it for its face
value without any hesitation. To test the quality of such a
witness, the status of the witness would be immaterial and
what would be relevant is the truthfulness of the statement
made by such a witness. What would be more relevant would
be the consistency of the statement right from the starting
point till the end, namely, at the time when the witness makes
the initial statement and ultimately before the court. It should
be natural and consistent with the case of the prosecution
qua the accused. There should not be any prevarication in the
version of such a witness. The witness should be in a position
to withstand the cross-examination of any length and

howsoever strenuous it may be and under no circumstance
should give room for any doubt as to the factum of the
occurrence, the persons involved, as well as the sequence of
it. Such a version should have co-relation with each and every
one of other supporting material such as the recoveries made,
the weapons used, the manner of offence committed, the
scientific evidence and the expert opinion. The said version
should consistently match with the version of every other
witness. It can even be stated that it should be akin to the test
applied in the case of circumstantial evidence where there
should not be any missing link in the chain of circumstances to
hold the accused guilty of the offence alleged against him.
Only if the version of such a witness qualifies the above test
as well as all other such similar tests to be applied, can it be
held that such a witness can be called as a "sterling witness"
whose version can be accepted by the court without any
corroboration and based on which the guilty can be punished.
To be more precise, the version of the said witness on the core
spectrum of the crime should remain intact while all other
attendant materials, namely, oral, documentary and material
objects should match the said version in material particulars in
order to enable the court trying the offence to rely on the core
version to sieve the other supporting materials for holding the
offender guilty of the charge alleged."

24. So far as appreciation of a child witness is concerned,
the Hon'ble Supreme Court has laid down the principle --- In
Panchhi & Ors vs. State of U.P : (1998) 7 SCC 177, the
Supreme Court has held --

The evidence of child is required to be evaluated carefully
because he is an easy prey to tutoring. Therefore, always the
court looks for adequate corroboration from other evidence to
his testimony.
25. In the case of Orsu Venkat Rao v. State of Andhra
Pradesh (AIR 2004 SC 4961 )where the two child witnesses,
aged 10 and 6 years had incriminated their father for having
strangulated their mother, their belated disclosure on the next
day, and the absence of explanation of other injuries which
were indicative of a fight between the parents, and the injuries
on the deceased not being consistent with the case of
strangulation as set up by the child witnesses led to the Apex
Court discarding their evidence as being tutored and

unreliable.

26. Long back in Jagjit Singh v. State of Punjab ( AIR
1978 SC 988) where the solitary child witness who according
to the Court had no opportunity to know the appellant from
before had nominated him, the nomination was considered the
result of tutoring and the appellant was acquitted.

27. In State of U.P. v. Ashok Dixit [2000 (3) SCC 70]. it
has been observed in paragraph 9:

“Law Is well settled that evidence of a child witness must be
evaluated carefully as a child may be swayed by what others
tell him and as an easy prey to tutoring. Wisdom requires that
evidence of a child witness must find adequate corroboration
before it is relied on (see Panchhi v. State of U.P). However it
is a question of fact in each case, and there is no universal
rule that the evidence of a child witness, even if it cannot be
dislodged on the test of facts and probabilities of a particular
case can never be sufficient for convicting an accused without

corroboration.

28. Now | shall come to section 29 of the POCSO Act. It

reads as under ---
Section 29. Presumption as to certain offences.-

Where a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or
attenuating to commit any offence under sections 3,5,7 and
section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that
such person has committed or abetted or attempted to
commit the offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is
proved

29. While examining as to in what manner presumption
under a statute would operate against the accused, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Babu .vs. State of
Kerala, (2010) 9 Supreme Court Cases 189, has held as
follows:-

"(IV) Burden of Proof and Doctrine of Innocence

27. Every accused is presumed to be innocent unless the guilt
is proved. The presumption of innocence is a human right.
However, subject to the statutory exceptions, the said
principle forms the basis of criminal jurisprudence. For this
purpose, the nature of the offence, its seriousness and gravity
thereof has to be taken into consideration. The courts must be
on guard to see that merely on the application of the
presumption, the same may not lead to any injustice or
mistaken conviction. Statutes like Negotiable Instruments Act,
1881; Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988; and Terrorist and
Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987, provide for
presumption of guilt if the circumstances provided in those
Statutes are found to be fulfilled and shift the burden of proof
of innocence on the accused. However, such a presumption
can also be raised only 19 apeal406-17.0dt when certain
foundational facts are established by the prosecution. There
may be difficulty in proving a negative fact.
10

28. However, in cases where the statute does not provide for
the burden of proof on the accused, it always lies on the
prosecution. It is only in exceptional circumstances, such as
those of statutes as referred to hereinabove, that the burden
on proof is on the accused. The statutory provision even for a
presumption of guilt of the accused under a particular statute
must meet the tests of reasonableness and liberty enshrined
in Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. (Vide: Hiten P. Dalal v.
Bratindranath Banerjee, (2001) 6 SCC 16; Narendra Singh v.
State of M.P., AIR 2004 SC 3249; Rajesh Ranjan Yadav v. CBI,
AIR 2007 SC 451; Noor Aga v. State of Punjab & Anr., (2008)
16 SCC 417; and Krishna Janardhan Bhat v. Dattatraya G.
Hegde, AIR 2008 SC 1325)."

30. In Sahid Hossain Biswas .vs. State of West

Bengal , the Calcutta High Court has held as follows:-

"23. A conjoint reading of the statutory provision in the light

of the definitions, as aforesaid, would shows that in a
prosecution under the POCSO Act an accused is to prove 'the
contrary’, that is, he has to prove that he has not committed
the offence and he is innocent. It is trite law that negative
cannot be proved [see Sait Tarajee Khimchand vs. Yalamarti
Satyam, MANU/SC/0022/1971 : (1972) 4 SCC 562, Para-15]. In
order to prove a contrary fact, the fact whose opposite is
sought to be established must be proposed first. It is,
therefore, an essential prerequisite that the foundational facts
of the prosecution case must be established by leading
evidence before the aforesaid statutory presumption is
triggered in to shift the onus on the accused to prove the
contrary.

24. Once the foundation of the prosecution case is laid by
leading legally admissible evidence, it becomes incumbent on
11

the accused to establish from the evidence on record that he
has not committed the offence or to show from the
circumstances of a particular case that a man of ordinary
prudence would most probably draw an inference of innocence
of his favour. The accused may achieve such an end by
leading defence evidence or by discrediting prosecution
witnesses through effective cross-examination or by exposing
the patent absurdities or inherent infirmities in their version by
an analysis of the special features of the case. However, the
aforesaid statutory presumption cannot be read to mean that
the prosecution version to be treated as gospel truth in every
case. The presumption does not take away the essential duty
of the Court to analyse the evidence on record in the light of
the special features of a particular case, eg. patent absurdities
or inherent infirmities in the prosecution version or existence
of entrenched enmity between the accused and the victim
giving rise to an irresistible inference of falsehood in the
prosecution case while determining whether the accused has
discharged his onus and established his innocence in the
given facts of a case. To hold otherwise, would compel the
Court to mechanically accept the mere ipse dixit of the
prosecution and give a stamp of judicial approval to every
prosecution, however, patently absurd or _ inherently
improbable it may be."

31. The provision of Section 29 of the POCSO Act, 2012 has
been inserted into the Act to fulfill the object of the Act which
is to protect children from offences of sexual assault and to
secure that children of tender age are not abused.

32. Coming back to the case in hand, | am of the considered
Opinion that the prosecution has been able to establish the
12

foundation for the presumption under Section 29 of the POCSO
Act to operate.

a3. | failed to find the answer to the question as to why the
victim would speak false evidence against the accused who is
her own paternal uncle. The defence side tried to prove that
the victim being a child was tutored by someone to speak
against the accused. But the victim has denied being tutored
by police or any other persons while she gave her statement
u/s 161 Cr.P.C as well as u/s 164 Cr.PC. | find that the child
witness is able to understand the questions and is able to give
rational answers. The evidence of the child witness is reliable
and her demeanour is like any other competent witness and
there was. no likelihood of being tutored. In this case the
hymen of the victim was found torn. A hymen gets torn for
various other reasons like cycling, etc. But here in this case
before me the torn hymen is a fact that supports the
prosecution case against the accused as because there is no
cross examination to that effect. | have already stated herein
before that the defence side has failed to justify filing of the
false case against the accused. Similarly, | do not find any
reason as to why Lachina Kalandi and Jinti Gogoi would speak
false evidence. Under the aforesaid circumstances, | have
reasons to hold that the evidence of the victim inspired
confidence. Therefore, | hereby hold that the offence u/s 6 of
the POCSO Act is proved beyond all reasonable doubts against
the accused.

ORDER

34. That being the position, the accused Suraj Tanti is
found guilty of committing rape upon the victim girl.
13

Therefore, the accused Suraj Tanti is convicted u/s 6 of the
POCSO Act.

SENTENCE

35. The convict Suraj Tanti has misused the privilege of
being the guardian of the victim girl. He used her for satisfying
his lust in a very unjustified manner. The victim is a
defenseless girl and the convict has taken that opportunity. |
do not find any mitigating circumstances in his favour.
Therefore, he must be punished adequately.

36. | have heard the convict in the matter of sentence.
Apart from pleading not guilty, the convict did not plead any
other thing. From the evidence, it is clear that the convict has
his wife and children.

37. The Ld. Special Public Prosecutor has submitted that no
separate sentence hearing is necessary in the instant case.
The Ld. Special Public Prosecutor has also submitted that he
would not have anything to say about what the convict has
pleaded. He has submitted that sentence upon the convict
may be awarded today.

38. | have taken into consideration all the circumstances,
pertaining to the case. | hereby sentence the convict Suraj
Tanti to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment of 10 (Ten) Years. He
is also sentence to pay a fine of Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees Twenty
Five Thousand Only) and in default of payment of the fine, he
shall undergo another period of Imprisonment of 1 (one)

month.
14

COMPENSATION

39. Law has mandated that victim of a crime must be
compensated in monetary terms. Here in this case, the victim
girl is an orphan and she is presently staying in an Orphanage
and the witness Jinti Gogoi is the Superintendent of the
aforesaid orphanage named Keshab Gogoi Surjudaya Children
Home. The District Legal Service Authority, Tinsukia is directed
to pay a compensation of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand
Only) to the victim girl and the money shall be fixed deposited
in the name of the victim girl in a Public Sector Bank, till she
attains majority.

AO. | hope, the sentence imposed and the compensation
awarded would be sufficient to reach the ends of justice.

41. A free copy of the judgment be given to the convict
immediately. Another copy of the judgment shall be forwarded
to the Ld. Deputy Commissioner, Tinsukia, under the the
provision of section 365 of the Cr.PC. A copy of the judgment
Shall also be forwarded to the District Legal Service Authority,
Tinsukia.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
lst day of October, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.
Special Judge

Tinsukia
15

A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Dr. Ashma Zekia Hussain Ghaznavi
2. PW2 - Smti Jinti Gogoi

3. PW3 - Smti Bobita Tanti

4. PW4 - Smti Geeta Tanti

5. PW5 - Smti Lachina Kalandi

6. PW6 - Smti Purnima Kalandi

7. PW7 - Sri Someswar Bora, S.I.

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1- Medical report
2. Ext. 2- Ejahar

3. Ext. 3- Sketch map

4. Ext. 4 - Charge sheet

5. M. Ext.1- Copy of statement of the victim
DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
