Page 1 of 6
Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 12/2016

IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALT
EEE ES ESSE, FIL, BISWANATH CHARIALT,

SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 12/2016

u/s Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

State of Assam
-VS-
Sri Jogesh Kurmi

eeeee Accused person

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Advocates Appeared:-
For the prosecution: Smti J. Kalita, learned Addl. P.P

For the defence : Mr. P. P. Borah, learned Counsel

Dates of recording Evidence: 28.02.2019, 25.03.2019, 17.05.2019.

Date of Argument : 28.06.2019.
Date of Judgment ? 12.07.2019.
JUDGMENT

 

fr 1, The prosecution case in brief is that on 26.06.2016 the informant Sri Pitar Kand lodged an
Hdl) FIR with the OC, Biswanath Chariali PS stating inter alia that on the same day at 11 AM, his
( daughter (name is withheld) went to the house of one Saju Mahara in order to pick dates,
| At that relevant time, the accused Jogesh Kurmi took her with him with a promise to show
her video film. The accused, however, took her to the house of one Dinesh Baruah in order
to show her TV and cinema and Closed its door and thereafter, showed her bad and illicit
films on his mobile phone and committed rape on her. Later, his daughter came weeping to
his house and told about the incident to her uncle Moneswar Kand. When Moneswar Kand
went to the house of the accused in order to ask him about the incident, the accused
Jogesh Kurmi along with the accused Sagar Kurmi physically assaulted him and on being
thrown a bicycle on him, Moneswar sustained grievous injury on his left leg.
2. Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After
investigation, the police submitted charge-sheet against the accused Jogesh Kurmi u/s 4 of
the POCSO Act.

3. Later in due course, the accused appeared before this court to face trial. The copies of the
Page 2 of 6

Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 12/2016
relevant documents were furnished to him. After hearing both the sides on the point of

charge, taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173 CrPC, as my learned predecessor
found grounds for presuming that the accused had committed an offence u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act, the charge was accordingly framed against him, read over and explained to
which he pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial, the prosecution examined six witnesses in all including the Medical Officer as

PW 5 and the Investigating Officer as PW 6. The accused was thereafter examined u/s 313
CrPC. His plea was of total denial. He refused to adduced any evidence on his behalf. The
case was thereafter argued by both the sides.

Points for determination

 

Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed penetrative

sexual assault on the said victim, who is a child below the age of 18 years?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

. PW 1 is the informant and the father of the alleged victim. According to him, the incident

took place about 1¥2 years back. On that day at 11 AM, his daughter-the victim went to
the house compound of Sanju Mahara in order to pick dates and there the accused called
her to witness films. He took her to the house of Dinesh Baruah and after closing of the
door of the house and after disrobing her, committed rape on her by playing an english
video on his mobile phone. PW 1 stated that the accused had touched his penis on her
body. His daughter thereafter, making noise came running to her house. His brother
Moneswar Kand met her and asked her about the incident. After knowing about the
incident from her, his brother out of anger went to the house of the accused and indulged
quarrel with him. There the accused had thrown his bicycle on the body of his brother
which resulted fracture of his leg. Thereafter, he came to the police station along with his

daughter and lodged the FIR. According to him, the police seized the garments of his

‘ daughter and got her medically examined. He proved his FIR as Ext. 1. In his cross-

examination, he stated that the house of Dinesh Baruah is situated near his house and

7 there was on one in the house of Dinesh Baruah on the said day. He could learn about the

incident from his daughter. He also stated that the house of Dinesh Baruah and Sanju
Mahara are situated near one another. He further stated the victim had reported about the
incident at first to his brother Moneswar.

. PW 2, Moneswar Kand stated that on the day of the said occurrence, the victim was

playing in the house of Sanju Mahara and it was about 11 AM then. The accused Jogesh
Kurmi had called the victim in order to show her cinema and took her to the house of
Dinesh Baruah where he showed her blue film. The accused there disrobing the victim

committed rape on her. The victim came running and informed him about the incident. He
Page 3 of 6
Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 12/2016

thereafter went to the front of house of Dinesh Baruah to ask the accused about the
incident, where, the accused and he had a scuffle. He stated that the brother of the
accused, namely, Sagar Kurmi then came and thrown one bicycle on his leg. Thereafter, he
came with the victim to the police station he and his brother jointly filed the FIR, he
stated. According to him, the victim was 7 years old at that relevant time. In his cross-
examination, he stated that Dinesh was his paternal aunt’s son. He also stated that at the
time when the victim returned, his elder brother-the informant, he and his wife Reshma

were present in the house.

. PW 3 Joymati Teli stated that the incident took place about 3 years back. The house of the

informant is situated some distance away from their house. On that day at about 11 AM,
the victim came weeping to the house of the informant and informed about the incident.
She stated that the accused took her to the house of Dinesh Baruah in order to show video
on his mobile phone. She could know about the incident from the victim. She was picking
dates at that relevant time. The victim had told her that the accused after disrobing her,
committed rape on her. He could learn about the incident after she heard noise on the
road. In her cross-examination, she stated that both the informant and the victim had told
her about the incident. She however stated that she did not state before police during
investigation that she was informed by the victim that the accused wanted to commit rape

on her.

. PW 4 is the victim, who is about 7 years old as per her statement. Oath was not

administered on her, taking note of her tender age. She stated that her father Pitar Kand
had lodged the FIR. According to her, about 3 years back on a day she went to the house
of Sanju’ Mahara in order to pick dates. There the accused called her to show her video
cinema. She went with him to the house of Dinesh Baruah, where the accused disrobed
her and inserted his urinating organ in to her urinating organ. She stated that the accused

asked her not to inform about the incident to any one or else he threatened and to kill her.

Coming to her house, she told about the incident to her parents. Later, her father lodged
‘the FIR and on the next day, police came. She categorically stated that the accused had
"committed ‘rape’ on her. She further stated that the police collected her clothes and got

her medically examined, wherein she had put her thumb impression. In her cross-
examination, she had stated that there is quarrel between the brother of the accused
namely, Sagar with her uncle.

. PW 5 the Medical Officer, Dr. Mitali Borborah examined the victim on 26.06.2016 at about

6.45 PM. On examination of the victim, she found the victim conscious and she stated that
there was history of attempt of sexual assault. She found no signs of injury anywhere on
her body. Further she found no injury on her private parts, i.e., vulva, vagina. No blood clot
or any other stain was found on her body, clothing or on her private parts. She testified
—_—

10.

11.

12.

Page 4 of 6

Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 12/2016
that per vagina examination was not done as the victim refused to undergo the

examination. PW 5 further stated that x-ray of elbow joint and wrist joint and pelvis for age
determination was done and according to her, the victim was 6 years old. She stated that
no signs of rape or injury marks were found on her body. She proved her medical
examination report as Ext. 3. She stated in her cross that the history she had recorded was
based on what had been stated to her by the parents of the child.

PW 6 is the Investigating Officer, Indreswar Bordoloi conducted the investigation of the
case and after investigation he submitted charge-sheet —Ext. 7 against the accused. In his
cross-examination, he stated that he did not seize the frock of the victim, He further stated
that the witness of Joymati Teli did not state before him during the investigation of the
case that the victim was taken by the accused when she was busy picking dates. Further,
he stated that the said witness did not state before him that the accused tried to commit
rape on the victim. He also stated that he did not record the statements of Kalabati Marji,
Maju Mahara and Kuldeep Majhi, whose houses are situated near the place of occurrence.
When we scrutinize the evidence of all these witnesses as examined by the prosecution,
we find the victim PW4 has categorically deposed against the accused Stating that the
accused had committed ‘rape’ on her. The FIR- Ext.1 and the informant and the father of
the victim too has supported the PW1 in that regard. PW1 and other PWs- PW2 & PW3
have deposed against the accused on the basis of what the PW1 and the victim PW4 had
stated to them. It shows that the other PWs could know about the incident on being
informed by the PW4.

PWS5- The Medical Officer Dr. Mitali Borborah had examined the victim on the same day of
the incident at 6.45 p.m. The incident allegedly took place at 11 a.m. on that day. PW4 has
deposed that the accused disrobed her and inserted his urinating organ in to her urinating
organ. According to the PW5, the victim was a girl of about 6 years old at that relevant

time. If the testimony of the victim is to be believed, taking note of her tender age, we can

_ &xpect that the victim might have sustained some injury at least on her private parts, as

13.

according to her, the accused had committed penetrative sexual assault on her. But on the

contrary, the PW5 testified that she did not find any sign of injury on her private parts, i.e.,
vulva, vagina. According to her, no blood clot or any other stain was found on her private
parts. She clearly testified that no signs of rape or injury mark was found on the body of
the victim. She proved her medical examination report as Ext.3.

Thus we see that the PW5 has totally contradicted the version of the victim- PW4, on
whose information, the FIR was lodged by the PW1 and the other witnesses have deposed.
Further the PW5 stated in her cross that the history she recorded on the Ext.3 was on the
basis of what the parents of the child stated to her. She noted in the Ext. 3 that there was
history of attempt of sexual assault, which again contradicts the prosecution case.
14.

15.

16.

Page 5 of 6

Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 12/2016
Moreover, in the Ext1, the informant alleged that the accused Jogesh Kurmi along with the

accused Sagar Kurmi physically assaulted PW2 Moneswar Kand and on being thrown a
bicycle on him, Moneswar sustained grievous injury on his left leg. PW1 in his evidence
exaggerated the occurrence and stated that the left leg of his brother, Monreswar got
ffractured in the incident. Ext.2- Medical injury report and the evidence of PW5, on the
other hand, reveal that PW2 had only sustained simple injury on his left leg.

From the evidence as discussed above, we find the PW4 stating in her cross that her
uncle-PW2 has quarrel with the brother of the accused, namely, Sagar.

Thus we find that the contradictory evidence of PW5 with the other prosecution witnesses
make the prosecution case weak and undependable. We too have noted exaggerating
evidence of PW1 with regard to the injury sustained by the PW2. PW2 himself is found to
be silent with regard to any injury he sustained in the incident. Under such circumstances,
I find that benefit of doubt should go in favour of the accused. The prosecution has failed
to prove its case against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. As such I acquit the
accused person from the offence charged against him on benefit of doubt and set him
liberty forthwith. His bail bond stands discharged. The provision u/s 437-A CrPC is not
complied with, taking note of the evidence on record. A copy of the judgment be
forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec. 365 Cr.P.C. The
case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 12th day of July, 2019.

Harta tl?

(D. BORA)
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.
Page 6 of 6
Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 12/2016

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Sri Pitar Kand

PW2- Sri Moneswar Kand

PW3- Smti Joymati Teli

PW4- Victim

PWS- Dr. Mitali Borborah (M.O.)

PWE6- Sri Indreswar Bodoloi (1.0.)

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Ext.1- FIR

Ext.2 & 3- Medical injury reports of the victims.
Ext.4- Seizure List

Ext.5 Sketch Map

Ext.6- Statement of the accused u/s 164 CrPC
Ext.7- Charge sheet

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:
None.

He

-
ar
