IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE (POCSO): KAMRUP(M), AT

GUWAHATI

SESSIONS CASE NO.237/15
(Under Section u/s 6 of the POCSO Act)

Present: S.P. Moitra,

Special Judge
Kamrup(M), Guwahati

State of Assam

“Vs —
Md. Murad Ali
rieanweE Accused Person
Appearance for the Parties:
Advocate for the State : Sri H.K. Deka, Learned Public Prosecutor

Advocate for the accused : Shajida Khatun, Ld. Defence Counsel

Date of recording evidence : 02.05.2017, 09.06.2017, 13.11.2017
Date of Argument : 13.12.2017
Date of Judgment : 22.12.2017

1.

JUDGMENT

Brief facts of the case of the prosecution, as revealed in course of
trial, are that on 25.04.2015, at about 6:30 pm, the accused person
named above lured the victim by offering chips and took her to his
house and raped her. It is alleged that upon making noise by the victim,
the accused person gagged her mouth. It is further alleged that upon
searching for the victim, she was found in the room of the accused

person.
2.

On the basis of the said FIR, Fatasil Ambari P.S Case No.248/15 was
registered u/s 376(F) of IPC r/w Section 6 of the POCSO Act and was
taken up for investigation. During investigation of the case, statement of
the victim was recorded both u/s 161 of the Cr.P.C, as well as, u/s 164
of the Cr.P.C. Her medical examination was also done. After completion
of the investigation, the accused person named above was charge
sheeted u/s 376(F) of IPC r/w Section 6 of the POCSO Act.

Cognizance of the offence was taken under the aforesaid section of
law. The accused person, who was on bail, entered appearance before
this Court and he was allowed to remain on previous bail. The copies of
the relevant documents were furnished to the accused in compliance to
the provision of Section 207 of the Cr.P.C.

On consideration of charge, charge u/s 6 of the POCSO Act was
framed against the accused person. Charge was read over and
explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and stood to

face trial.

To bring home the charge, prosecution examined, as many as, 5
witnesses on its behalf and also exhibited 2 documents. The defence
plea was of complete denial of any guilt, as appears from the trend of
cross-examination, as well as, from the statement of the accused,
recorded u/s 313 of the Cr.P.C.

I heard the argument advanced by the Learned Counsel for the

parties.
Points for determination

i. Whether on 25.04.2015, at about 6:30 pm at Dhirenpara,
Etabhata under Fatasil Ambari P.S, Guwahati, the accused
person named above committed penetrative sexual assault on
the minor girl (name withheld) of the informant, aged about 7

years?

Decision and Reasons thereof
I have gone carefully through the entire evidence on record and the

materials placed before me.

PW.1 Md. Rafiqul Islam who is the father of the victim and informant
of this case testified that on 25.04.2015, he was staying in the rented
house at Dhirenpara, Itarbhata in the house of one Saiful Islam. He
stated that he knew accused Murad Ali. He further testified that on that
day, he was not at home and he returned back home at around 7/7:30
pm and then he saw the police team in his house. He added that other
neighbours were also there and they informed him that accused Murad
Ali had sexually assaulted his minor daughter. He deposed that accused
was his next door neighbour and they had good relation. His testimony
reveals that he did not believe this allegation at first as the accused was
close to him. He did not question his daughter on that day and went to
the police station and filed an FIR there. He proved Ext.1 as the FIR and
Ext.1(1) as his signature. He also stated that police sent his daughter to
the hospital for medical examination and she gave her statement before
the learned Magistrate. During cross examination, the witness stated
that the FIR was written by someone at the police station and he does

not know the writer. He further stated that he does not know the
contents of the said FIR. He also added that he has good relation with
the accused at present and has no grievance against the accused. He
further stated that he has no objection if the accused is acquitted from

this case.

10. PW.2 Sheikh Azizul Haque @ Mintu Ali testified that he knew
informant Rafiqul Islam and the victim was also known to him. He
further testified that accused Murad Ali was his tenant in the year 2016
and he came to learn that a case was filed against the accused. The
witness stated that on that day he was not at home, he was at his shop
at Fancy Bazar. His testimony reveals that he returned back at night
after closing the shop and then he came to learn that an incident
occurred involving the daughter of the informant. He, however, added
that he has no knowledge if anything happened on that day. During
cross examination too, he reiterated that he has no personal knowledge

regarding the actual incident.

11. PW.3 is the alleged victim of this case. She testified that she knew
accused Murad Ali. She further testified that she used to reside with her
father and mother at Dhirenpara, Itabhata. She stated that on the day
of occurrence, accused gave her one packet of chips and after that
nothing happened. She also added that after giving her chips, accused
took her to his house and from there, she came back home alone. She
added that her father scolded her for going to the house of others.
During cross examination, she stated that accused did not do any bad
act with her in any manner. She stated that police did not record her

statement.
12. PW.4 Babu Ali and his wife Saleha Khatun (PW.5) were residing in
the house of Mintu Ali as a tenant. Accused Murad Ali and informant
Rafiqul Islam and the victim also used to reside as tenants in a different
compound nearby their house. Their testimonies reveal that the
occurrence took place about 2/3 years ago and on that particular day,
at about 8 pm, while they were pursuing their works inside the house,
someone knocked the door from outside and told them that an incident
had taken place and a large number of people had gathered infront of
their house. They stated that hearing the same, they came out and saw
a large crowd and they were beating accused Murad Ali. PW.4 added
that the members of the family of the victim were also beating the
accused. Both of them stated that they came to know that accused had
committed rape on the victim and thereafter police was informed and
the accused person was handed over to police. During cross
examination, both the witnesses stated that their room was at the 3
floor of the building and they did not come downstairs. Both of them

stated that they have no personal knowledge about the occurrence.

13. In view of the discussions in respect of the evidence on record, I find
that virtually there is no evidence against the accused person for
committing any sexual assault on the victim girl. Neither, the father of
the victim supported the prosecution story, nor the victim supported it.
The remaining independent witnesses also could not prove any light on
the evidence on record. Thus, on a close scrutiny of the evidence on
record, I find that the prosecution has miserably failed to establish any
of the ingredients of Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and accordingly,

the accused person is entitled to get the benefit of doubt.
14. In result, accused Md. Murad Ali is held not guilty of offence
punishable u/s 6 of the POCSO Act 2012 and accordingly he is acquitted
and set at liberty forthwith. Bail bond, furnished on his behalf, will

remain in force for the next 6 months.

15. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open court on this 22™ day of

December, 2017 at Guwahati.

(S.P. Moitra)
Special Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati

Dictated & corrected by me.

(S.P. Moitra)
Special Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
(A)

(B)
(C)
(E)

(F)
(G)

APENDIX
Prosecution Exhibits :

Ext-1 :F.I1.R
Ext-2 : Printed form of F.I.R

Defense Exhibit : Nil
Court Exhibit : Nil
Prosecution Witnesses:

PW-1 : Md. Rafiqul Islam

PW-2 : Sheikh Azizul Haque @ Mintu Ali
PW-3 : Miss Mahima Khatun

PW-4 : Babu Ali

PW-5 : Saleha Khatun

Defense Witnesses : Nil
Court Witnesses : Nil.
(S.P. Moitra)

Special Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
