IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 64 OF 2017
(G.R. Case No. 2209 of 2017)
Jorhat P.S. Case No. 1572 of 2017

Transmitting Magistrate:-

Smt. Rani Boro,
Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat District

State of Assam
-Versus-

Sri Ashok Mahato,

Son of Late Ram Prakash Mahato,

Resident of Rupahi Ali,

P.S. Jorhat,

District-Jorhat ... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special PP., Jorhat.

For the Accused: Smt. Purnima Borgohain,
Learned Defence Counsel, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTIONS 376/417 OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM
SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 05-09-2017
Date of prosecution evidence : 21-06-2018 & 09-08-2018

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 17-11-2018
Date of Argument : 17-11-2018
Date of Judgment : 20-11-2018

SPECIAL CASE NO. 64 OF 2017
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Jorhat P.S. Case No.
1572/2017 under Section 376 of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection
of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was registered on the basis of an
F.I.R. lodged by the victim girl [hereinafter to be referred as [X].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 24/07/2017 the informant [X] who
the victim of the instant case alleged, /nter-a/ia, that she was residing in the
house of Dr. Hasan as maid-servant. The accused Ashok Mahato also worked in a
different house located near the house of Dr. Hasan. Further allegation of the
informant is that the accused disclosed before her that he will convert himself to
Muslim religion. Thereafter, on false pretext of marriage, the accused co-habited
with her, for which, she became pregnant for about seven months. Lastly, the
informant, in her ejahar, disclosed that as she belongs to a poor family, the
accused did not marry her.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-in-charge, Jorhat
P.S., registered Jorhat P.S. Case No. 1572/2017 under Section 376 of IPC
read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences
Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was sent to the
court for recording her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. Police on
completion of investigation filed charge-sheet in the case against the above
named accused Sri Ashok Mahato u/S. 4 of The Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 vide Charge-sheet No. 531/2017 dated 17/08/2017.

2). The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jorhat, transmitted the case to

this Court for trial. Copy was furnished to the accused in due course.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the
prosecution in this behalf, I found ground for presuming that the accused has
committed offences under Sections 376/417 of IPC read with Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Accordingly, charges

SPECIAL CASE NO. 64 OF 2017
were framed, read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 03 [three] numbers of witnesses were
examined on behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge u/Ss. 376/417 of IPC
read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,
2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. and the accused stated that he has
been falsely implicated in the case. The accused pleaded innocence. The accused

did not adduce defence evidence on his behalf.

5). I have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor
for the State as well as Smt. Purnima Borgohain, learned Defence Counsel for the

accused.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on or about seven months prior to the filing of the
ejahar by the informant [X] on 24/07/2017, the accused on the
false pretext of marriage co-habited with the informant [Xj], for
which, she became pregnant for seven months and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 376 of IPC?

2) Whether on the same day, time and place the accused cheated
the informant [X] by deceiving her fraudulently (or dishonestly
induced the informant) that she will be married by the accused
and had sexual intercourse with her, for which, she would not
have allowed if the informant [X] were not deceived by the
accused and which act caused damage to the body, mind,
reputation and property of the informant and thereby committed
an offence punishable under Section 417 of IPC?

3) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused named above

committed penetrative sexual assault upon the informant [X]

SPECIAL CASE NO. 64 OF 2017
and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7). To decide the above sections of law, let us examine, analyze and
appreciate the evidence of the witnesses along with the relevant documents.

Dr. Syed Safiqur Rahman [PW-1] during his evidence testified
that victim [X] used to reside in his residence as maid-servant since 2015. The
victim stayed in his house for some months and thereafter went to her parental
home at Nagaon for the purpose of taking “AADHAR CARD”. It is further version
of this witness that the victim returned back to his home for some days.
Thereafter, her brother-in-law Babul came to his residence and took back the
victim to Nagaon. This witness knows the accused as the later worked in the
house of one Dr. Prabin Gogoi whose house is located near his house. About 2/3
months police arrived at the house of Dr. Prabin Gogoi. This fact was informed to
him by the wife of Dr. Prabin Gogoi who stated that police had arrived at their
residence alongwith the victim who disclosed before police that the accused had
committed rape upon her.

During cross-examination by defence side, this witness divulged
that he does not know anything about the relationship of accused with the

victim.

8). The evidence of Dr. Prabin Gogoi [PW-2] is to the effect that
accused Ashok Mahato used to work in his house as a helper. Police visited his
premise at night hour alongwith the victim who disclosed before police that the
accused used to work in his residence. To the reply of the victim [X] this witness
divulged before police that the accused had left his work place after he entered
marriage with a girl of his [accused's] locality.

This witness was not cross-examined by defence side.

9). Prosecution side examined Syeda Mumtaz Rahman as [PW-3]

in connection with the case. This witness during her evidence testified that victim

SPECIAL CASE NO. 64 OF 2017
used to work in her residence as a helper about three years back. This witness
knows the accused as he [accused] worked in the house of Dr. Prabin Gogoi as
helper from morning till evening. Police visited her residence and asked her
about the incident.

Defence side declined to cross-examine this witness on all material

particulars.

10). It is interesting to note herein that the prosecution side was given
sufficient and ample chance to examine the victim of the case on different dates.
But the learned Special P.P., Jorhat, could not bring and adduce evidence of
victim inspite of his best effort which is fatal to the prosecution case. At the

submission of prosecution side its evidence was closed.

11). On appreciation of the evidence on record as well as other facts and
circumstances of the case, it is found that no case has been made out against
accused Sri Ashok Mahato to warrant his conviction under Sections 376/417 IPC
as well as under Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences
Act, 2012, as victim could not be examined by prosecution side inspite of giving
many dates to produce the victim before the court for recording her statement.
Prosecution has not been able to make out a case against the accused Sri Ashok
Mahato under the aforesaid sections of law beyond reasonable doubt, for which,
I am of the opinion that the accused is entitled to acquittal under benefit of
doubt which I accordingly do.

Bail bond of accused is extended for the next 06 [six] months
under Section 437-A Cr.P.C.

12). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 20" day of
November 2018.

Special Judge, Jorhat.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 64 OF 2017
 

 

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW-1 Dr. Syed Safiqur Rahman, Retired Senior Medical &
Health Officer.
PW-2 Dr. Prabin Gogoi, Retired medical practitioner.

 

PW-3 Syed Mumtaz Rahman, housewife.

 

 

 

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:- NIL

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NIL

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 64 OF 2017
