IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE ...CACHAR.
SPl POCSO CASE NO 14/15
(U/S 6 POCSO Act.2012.)
Present:-Shri K. Choudhury, LL.M.,

Sessions Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......cc.cccescceeeeeceeeeeeceeeseeceeeneeeessseseenseeneeens Complainant.

-Versus-

Subhas Nayek

S/o Late Manu Nayek
Dolu Moynagarh

PS Borkhola

Cachar

Charge framed On:- .........cccccceccecceececenceeneeeeceeeceeenseeneeeeseeeees 10/8/15,
P.WS.eXAMINEMON!-..........cccccccccecccceveccesveseeeees 24/8/15,8/9/15,19/10/15
Statement of accused recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C :- ..... 19/11/15
Argument heard On: .........ccccesceeceeceeeseeee ceseeeeeeescseeeeeeseeees 20/11/15
Judgment pronounced and delivered On:- ...........scesceseeeeeeeeees 23/11/15
4

Counsel Appeared:

Advocate for the proSeCution:- ..........cccseeeeeeeceesteceseneeeees Sri S. Dutta, P.P.,

Advocate for the accused: - ........c..ccceceeeeeeee ceecsseeseeeeeees Sri.P.K.Dey.
JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution as reveals from the FIR is that accused is the

closed door neigbour of the complainant . Four years aged daughter of
the complainant here in below called as victim used to call the

accused as uncle ( Kaku ). The victim used to visit the house of the
2
accused. On 4/6/15 at about 3-30 p.m. the accused called the victim
to his house. Taking the advantage of absence of any inmates in the
house the accused bolted the door and forcibly applied oil on her
private part and when attempted to commit rape on her she started
cry and after that the accused opened the door and allowed the
victim to go out and after sometimes when the mother of the victim
for bathing of the victim was rubbing oil on the body of the victim the
entire act of the accused was disclosed by the victim. The matter was
then disclosed to the neighbouring elderly people including members
of VDP . Accordingly FIR was lodged which was registered as
Borkhola PS case No. 179/15 u/s 342 IPC r/w section 8 of the POCSO
Act. During investigation the victim was medically examined. She

also gave statements before the Magistrate.

2 On completion of investigation the I/O submitted charge
sheet against the accused person u/s 342 IPC r/w section 8 of POCSO
Act 2012. On production of the accused the ld. J.M. 1% class after
furnishing copies of all the necessary police papers committed the
offence. After hearing both sides and perusal of the materials on the
record I framed formal charges against the accused U/S. 6 of POCSO
ACT 2012. The charges were read over and explained to which he
pleaded not guilty. Hence, trial began.

3. Prosecution examined as many as seven witnesses

including the M.O. and the I/O. The defence pleas are of total denial.

4. During examination of accused u/s 313 CrPC the accused

denying all the accusations pleaded as innocent,

5. Point for determination is:

(i) Whether, under the facts and circumstances of this case, the

committed aggravated form of sexual assault on the person of the

victim punishable Sec 6 of POCSO ACT 2012?
6. To decide the above point I have heard the ld. counsel of
both sides. Perused the evidence on the record. Findings and decisions

are given below.

7. PW.1 is the complainant, the father of the victim. He narrating
the FIR deposed that on the date of occurrence at about 4/5 p.m.
when he returned home from work, his wife reported that while his
wife was rubbing oil to the victim before providing bath it was
reported by the victim that she was getting pain at her genitals. On
query the victim disclosed that the accused on that afternoon at
about 3 p.m. took her to his house and slept on her. The victim
further reported that the accused removing her clothes committed
rape on her. It is further deposed that at the time of providing bath to
victim sign of blood was noticed at the genital area of the victim . The
victim also accordingly reported. To him. Ext.1 is the FIR. Police

seized the undergarments of the victim vide Ext.2.

8. PW.2, the mother of the victim deposed that while she was
taking bath at about 3-30 p.m. the victim went to the house of the
accused and subsequently on call both the victim and the accused
came, and while she was making ready the victim for bath by
rubbing oil it was told by the victim for not touching her private
part. On query the victim reported that the accused rode on her after
removing her penty . It is further reported that the accused
removing his pent rode on her and the accused asked the victim not

to disclose d the matter .
9. Pw.3 is the victim. She deposed in camera. She deposed that

accused rode on her in his house. She felt burning on her private

part. Blood came out from her private part .

10. PW.4 is the lady doctor who examined the victim. According to
4
her the victim was aged about three years on the day of examination
dtd. 5/6/15. She found hymen of the victim as reddened , tendered
having a tear at 11 O’clock position. She recorded the history as
narrated by the victim and her parents to the effect that on 4/6/15 at
around 3 p.m. the accused took the victim to his house and applied
oil on her body and removed her penty and did sexual intercourse

with her.

11.  PW.5 Sri Rajesh Bhumij deposed as a reported witness and
according to him on the date of occurrence it was reported that the

accused raped the victim .

12. PW.6- Jhontu Bhumi also deposed accordingly .

13. PW.7is the IO who deposed that on 5/6/15 i,e,one day after the
alleged occurrence O/c of the Borkhola PS receiving FIR the Ext.1
entrusted him to investigate the case. During the investigation he
visited the PO, drew up sketch map of the PO. The victim’ got
examined by the doctor of SMCH. Statement of the victim was also
recorded by the Magistrate. He seized one Jangia produced by the
mother of the victim vide Ext.2. He submitted the charge sheet
Ext.5..M.Ext.1 is the seized Jangia. In the cross examination, it is
stated that the seized penty was washed after the incident and no
blood or any other stain was found in it. Some omissions with regard
to the reporting by the victim to the effect that PW.1 did not state
before the IO about the report of the alleged incident by wife and
daughter including notice of sign of blood by his wife. It is seen from
the omission as confirmed by the IO that PW.2 also did not
elucidated the incident before the IO in detail but it is seen that with

regard to the substance of the allegation there is no contradiction .

14. During argument ld. PP has submitted that evidence with
regard to the sexual assault as deposed by the victim is fully

corroborated by her parents being PW.1 and PW.2 and there is no
5
contradiction, rather corroborated by the medical evidence and there
is nothing in the evidence to impeach the trustworthiness of the
witnesses. Further submission is that there is no reason to
disbelieve the evidence of the victim who deposed to have sustained

injury on her vagina supported by medical evidence;

15. On the contrary ld. defence counsel submitted that out of
enmity as disclosed in 313 Cr.P.C. statement to the effect that there
was a quarrel in between the accused and brother of the complainant
and the accused has been falsely implicated. The above contention
has got no force at all specially for the reason that accused hada
good relation with the family of the victim and also with the victim as
brought in the cross examination of PW-3 the victim and the
complainant . The complainant categorically in the cross examination
stated that he had no enmity with the accused and denied the
suggestion that he has strain relation with the accused prior to the
occurrence. Therefor no good reason is found to disbelieve the
testimony of the victim supported by other witnesses and it can be

relied upon in its face value.

16. The cogent and corroborative evidence supported by medical
evidence shows that there had been penetrative sexual assault
committed on the victim by the accused . It is an established rule that
slightest penetration is enough for bringing home the offence u/s 4 of
the POCSO,ACT. In the instant case the charge has been framed
u/s 6 Of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ( POCSO
Act) which relates to aggravated penetrative sexual assault. But the
prosecution side failed to adduce cogent evidence to establish that
the accused was in a position of trust or authority over the child .
There is some evidence that the victim being the close door neighbour
of the accused off and on visited the house of the accused and called
the accused as Uncle but this evidence is not sufficient to establish
that the accused had got authority over the child. Under such

premises , the established act of the accused, under the facts and
6
circumstances of the case, attracts the offence U/s 4 of the Act

which is lesser offence of similar nature .

I

17... In view of the entire discussions of the evidence on record,
contentions itis held that prosecution has been able to prove its case
beyond all reasonable doubts u/s section 4 of POCSO Act. So, accused
is held guilty and convicted accordingly.

18. Heard the accused on the question of sentence. According to
him he is to maintain his ailing widow mother and there is none in
his family to look after her and thus prayed for leniency. He has
stated his age as 18. It is seen that he has also stated his age as 18
in his statement recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Ld. defence counsel by
petition No. 393/15 inter alia stated that since his appointment as
legal Aid Counsel he tried his best to contact with his family and for
submitting document in proof of juvenility of the accused but failed.
Heard both sides. It is submitted by the ld. defence counsel that it
would not be practicable in this stage for the court to go for
ossification test and in that case the accused will have to remain
further period in the jail along with hardcore criminals.

It appears that the age of the convict is a marginal one and it is very
difficult to ascertain his real age that existed about six months back
ie, on the date of occurrence. After hearing both sides including the
convict it appears that the defene side is not in a position to prove the
juvenility of the convict and thus option lies to the court to pass an
order for medical / ossification test which may take further time for
which the convict shall have to remain in the jail and that too, in

touch of other criminals.

19. On consideration of above, having regard to the circumstance of
the case and all other aspects it appears to the court that it is
expedient to release the accused on probation of good conduct instead

of sentencing him at once to any punishment. Therefore accused is to
7
be released on probation of good conduct by entering into a bond as
per section 4 of the Probation of Offenders Act for a period of one year
for keeping peace and good behavior and _ to appear and receive
sentence if any as and when called upon. Accordingly bond is

submitted and he is released on probation.

20. With regard to the scheme of victim compensation, upon
consideration of the very tender age of the victim and nature of
injury, I am of the view that an amount of Rs.15,000/- would be
adequate as compensation under section 357 A for the injuries
sustained by the victim. Accordingly, the aforesaid amount is
recommended for payment to the complainant as compensation to be
paid by the DLSA, Cachar, Silchar. Inform the Secretary , DLSA

accordingly.

21. Copy of FIR and deposition of complainant PW.1 are to
be forwarded along with copy of judgment to the Secretary for proper

identification of complainant and payement.

Da Accused be furnished a free copy of the Judgment as per provision
of section 363 Cr.PC. and a copy of judgment be forwarded to the District
Magistrate as per section 365 of Cr.P.C.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court

under my seal and signature on this 23rd_day of November _ 2015.

Dictated and corrected by
( K. Choudhury)
Sessions Judge, Cachar Sessions Judge,

Cachar, Silchar
Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee, Stenographer
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR

 

Spl. POCSO Case No.14 of 15
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW 1-Sri Sanju Bhumi,

PW 2-—Smt. Sangita Bhumiy,

PW 3-—Smti.Ankita Bhum1j

PW 4-—Smti ORina Raha MO

PW 5-— Sri Sri Rajesh Bhumikj
PW.6 — Sri Jhontu Bhum)j

PW.7— Sri Sirish Majumder

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL.

(C) COURT WITNESSES: - NIL.

(D) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — FIR

Ext. 1 (1),\ Signatures of PW 1

Ext 1(2) —Signatuare he then O/c of Borkhola PS

Ext. 2 — Seizure list

Ext. 2(1) ,2(2)— Signature of PW 1 and PW.7 respectively.
Ext. 3 — Medical report

Ext. 3(1)(2) — Signatures of PW.4.

Ext.3(3), — Signature of Dr. Y.N. Singha

(EK) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - = NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - Nil

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - NIL.

Sessions Judge,

Cachar,Silchar.
