Pagel

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 04 of 2019
Under section 376(2) (I) of IPC and 8 of POCSO Act IPC.
(Arising out of Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 62/19)

State of Assam

—Vs—
Abdul Seikh ves Accused Person

Present : Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State :  Mr.M.C. Baruah,

Special\Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Mr. B. Kotoki, Advocate
Date of Argument : 05-08-2019 & 19-08-2019
Date of Judgment : 22-08 -2019.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case against the accused person as projected in the

FIR (Ext. 2), in brief, is that on several occasions prior to filing the FIR dated
28-01-2019, accused Abdul Seikh committed rape on the victim girl, aged
about 17 years who was mentally disable to some extent and lastly on 27-01-
2019 at around 8.30 p.m. when the accused Abdul Seikh attempted to commit
her rape, he was caught red handed by victim's sister but then the accused by

assaulting the victim, fled away.

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.2) on 28-01-2019 from the informant
(PW 1), Dhekiajuli P.S. Case No. 62/19 u/s 376 of IPC read with section 4/6 of

 
Page 2

POCSO Act was registered and launched investigation of the case. During
investigation, the Investigating Officer (PW 7) recorded the statement of the
witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got her statement
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation having found
materials, laid charge sheet against the accused Abdul Seikh u/s 376 of the
IPC read with Section 4/6 of POCSO Act. .

3. On producing the accused person from Jail, after furnishing the
copies of the documents as required u/s 207 of Cr.P.C. and having heard both
parties, charge u/s 376 (2) (I) of IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act was framed
against the accused Abdul Seikh and particulars of the charge ‘on being read
over and explained to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed

for trial.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as eight
witnesses. On closure of the prosecution, evidence, statement of the accused
was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.\.wherein the accused denying all the
incriminating evidence that emerged.against him pleaded that on the night he
after consuming liquor with thesvictim’s father proceeded together towards
the house of the victim butsbefore reaching home, in nature’s call the victim’s
father asking the accused,to enter into his house, went to the back side and
accordingly, when.the accused entered into his house, finding him in drunken
state, victim’s sister rebuked him, hence the accused went out and on next
morning, when he went to the house of the victim to ask the reason of abusing
him-on-the previous night, an altercation took place between them and then
the neighboring people by assaulting him, filed the false case.

5. The points for decision in this case is that -

(1) Whether the accused Abdul Seikh, on several occasions prior to 27-01-
2019 and on 27-01-2019 at around 8.30 p.m. at Matikhunda gaon under
Dhekiajuli police station committed rape on the victim Miss X, who has been
suffering from mental disability and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 376(2) (1) of the iPC.

(ii) Whether the accused Abdul Seikh on the same dates committed

aggravated penetrative sexual assault on several occasions on the minor

 
Page 3

victim Miss "X” who is mentally disable and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 6 of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

6. Mr. M.C. Baruah, learned Special Public Prosecutor strenuously
argued that the materials on record particularly the evidence of the victim
undoubtedly project a case of penetrative sexual assault and the evidence of

the victim is enough to convict the accused person.

qi Against the submissions, Mr. B. Kotoki, the learned counsel
appearing for the accused person submitted that the prosecution failed to
ascertain the age of the victim and in view of the evidence*of the victim and
her aunty (PW 1) and the medical evidence, it cannot be inferred that the
victim was a minor at the relevant time. The learned counsel also vehemently
argued that with the discrepancies in the evidence,.of witnesses, prosecution
failed to establish the case against the accused™beyond all reasonable doubt
and he is entitled to benefit of doubt.

8. In view of the rival’ submissions advanced by the learned counsel
appearing for the parties, it would be apposite to have a bird’s view of the

evidence on record.

9. PW 1, thesaunty of the victim, deposed that on the day of the
incident atraround 8/9 p.m., the victim after watching TV in the house of one
Krishna returned home and at around 9 p.m. when she (PW 1) went to bed,
hearing cry of the victim, she proceeded towards the room of the victim with
a torch light and entering into the room had seen the victim and accused
under a cloth lying on bed. At that time, the door of the room was opened to
some extent. Seeing the victim and the accused in that position as soon as
she removed the cloth, the accused by pushing her, fled away. Then on being
asked, the victim told her that when she was in the bed, accused came and
Slapped on her cheek, had assaulted over thigh and touched her body. The
victim also told her that on one earlier occasion, in her (PW1’s) absence, the
accused coming to their house inserted his penis in her vagina. She further
deposed that she had seen the victim with her wearing apparels. Seeing the

incident she raised hulla and lodged the FIR.

 
Page 4

During cross, she stated that she had not seen the accused

committing rape on the victim girl and when she raised hulla, sister of the
victim reached. She admitted that she had not seen the victim in naked
condition.
10. PW 2 is the victim herself. The victim being a Nepali, her evidence
was recorded with the help of interpreter, the stenographer of the Office of
the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Soniptur, Tezpur whose mother tongue is also
Nepali. She administered oath to interpret the evidence correctly. The victim
deposed that accused Abdul Seikh coming to her house at night;.slapped her,
assaulted her over leg, made her lay upon the bed and caught hold her breast
and thigh. He also removed the chain of her neck and on being assaulted by
the accused, she ran away and called her aunty PW ‘1.

During cross, she stated that accusedsdid not commit any bad act to
her and on earlier occasion also he did nothing.

11. PW 3, the daughter of PW lvas well cousin sister of the victim,
deposed that at the relevant night. her mother over phone told her that
accused Abdul Seikh entering into the*house of the victim, committed bad act
with her and she (PW 1) found. the accused with the victim under a cloth.
Hearing the incidentin the next morning, she came to her mother’s house and
on being asked,<the victim narrated her that the accused laid upon her body
and tried to‘commit.bad act with her. During cross, she stated that she had
not seenrthe incident.

12. PW 4 the father of the victim testified that on the day at around 8
p.m. hearing alarm of his victim daughter as soon as the wife of his elder
brother i.e. PW 1 came forward, the accused pushing his elder brother's wife
ran away. Then on being called by PW 1, he came out when PW 1 reported
him that the accused entered into his kitchen where his two daughters were
sleeping. He used to sleep in the verandah. He also deposed that PW 1
reported him that the accused Abdul Seikh entering into the kitchen, laid upon
the body of his victim daughter and committed her rape.

During cross he admitted that he had not seen the incident and did
not know what happened between his daughter and the accused. He admitted
that the fact of reporting him by PW 1 that accused Abdul Seikh entering into

 
Page 5

his kitchen laid upon the body of his daughter and committing her rape was
not stated before police.

13. The evidence of PW 5, Lakhi Limbu, the neighbour of the accused is
that in the next morning at around 6 a.m. he was informed that accused
Abdul Seikh entering into the house of the victim, attempted to commit rape
on the victim and seeing the incident when the elder sister of the victim
attempted to catch the accused, the accused by assaulting her fled away
there-from. He also stated that on earlier occasions also accused attempted to
commit rape of another girl of their village.

14, PW 6 Dr. Rika Ingtipi, the Medical Officer deposed that on 29-01-
2019 she examined the victim. The informant, the aunty of the victim gave
history of sexual assault on 27-01-2019 by one elderly person Abdul Seikh,
who often used to visit her house and hearing,screaming of the victim when
PW 1 went there had seen the accused andthe victim on bed. PW 1 also
stated that one and half months.back also once the accused sexually
assaulted the victim when she was alone at home. On examination, the
Medical Officer found — no sign of recent sexual intercourse or injury mark on
the body of her person,.however.found old healed hymeneal tear at 3 O'clock
position and as per X-ray report she is above 17 years and below 20 years .
The doctor proved, the\medical report as Ext.1. In cross-examination the
doctor admitted that.the age may vary two years on either side.

15. PW 7, SI Bipul Biswas, the Investigating Officer deposed that on
being endorsed to investigate the case, he visited the place of occurrence,
drew “the ‘sketch map (Ext. 3) of the place of occurrence, recorded the
statement of the victim and other witnesses, sent the victim for medical
examination and got recorded the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. The
accused was apprehended by the neighbours and handed over to him.
Accordingly, he arrested the accused and on completion of investigation,
submitted chargesheet against the accused u/s 376 of IPC read with section
4/6 of POCSO Act vide Ext. 6. In cross-examination, he confirmed that PW 3 —
the cousin sister of the victim did not state before him that the accused laid
upon the body of the victim and tried to commit bad act with her. He also
confirmed that the fact of reporting to PW 4 by the victim (PW 2) that the

 
Page 6

accused entering into the kitchen laid upon her body and committed her rape

was not stated by him in statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C.

16. PW 8 Miss Juhi Gogoi, the learned Judicial Magistrate, 1% class,
Tezpur, recorded the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. in connection
with Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 69/19 u/s 376 of the IPC r/w section 4/6 of
POCSO Act with the help of interpreter Swarup Nirala, the LD Assistant of
establishment of CJM, Sonitpur, Tezpur as the victim’s mother tongue is
Nepali. She proved the statement of the victim as Ext. 5 and her order dated
28-01-2019 as Ext. 6.

17. In the present case, the victim claimed her age ‘as 17 years. Victim’s
father remained silent regarding age of the victim» On the other hand, the
medical evidence shows that she is above 17 years and below 20 years. The
Apex Court in the case of Jayamala Vs. Home Secretary reported in AIR
1982 SC 1297, observed that margin of error in age ascertained by
radiological examination is two years on, either side. In the above evidence
regarding age, in absence of any other documents coupled with the medical
evidence, I find that the prosecution failed to prove that the victim was below
18 years at the time of. incident. Therefore let us see the facts and

circumstances of the case,

18. In*the.case at hand, coming to the evidence of the victim, it is found
that in examination-in-chief she stated that the accused coming to her house
atenight,\slapped over her cheek, assaulted over leg and thereafter laying
upon ‘her body, caught hold her breast and thigh but during cross she clearly
stated that the accused did not commit any bad act and earlier occasions also
he did nothing. PW1, the victim's aunty, the informant of this case, stated that
hearing cry of the victim she entering into the room through the door, had
seen both the victim and the accused under a cloth lying on bed. So, as per
her evidence she had witnessed the accused and the victim under one cloth.
But in the FIR, Ext.2, she alleged that the sister of the victim caught hold the
accused red handed when he tried to commit rape on the victim. In FIR, the
informant claimed the victim as her daughter whereas in deposition she stated

that the victim is her niece. The victim's father PW 4, made another version

 
Page 7

that at the time of incident when he was sleeping in the verandah, PW 1
calling him told that the accused entered into the kitchen where his two
daughters were sleeping and laying upon the body of his daughter committed
her rape. But PW 1 herself had not stated that the accused committed rape
on the victim girl. She only stated that she had seen both of them under a
cloth. Moreover, if his another daughter was sleeping with the victim, she
certainly had witnessed the incident or knew well about the incident but she
was not examined in this case. Withholding of such material witness creates
doubt about the truthfulness of the prosecution version. It is also.unbelievable
that in presence of sister and father, one would take risk of committing sexual
assault on a girl. On the other hand, the victim’s father himself’stated that he
did not know what happened between his daughter*and the accused. It is
really surprising that a father, would not knowvif any incident of sexual assault
occurred to his daughter. PW 5, the neighbour.made another version that the
accused Abdul Seikh entering into the house of the victim, while attempted to
commit her rape, the sister of the victim seeing the incident tried to catch the
accused and then by assaultingsher, the accused fled away. So, this witness
did not state that PW 1 had seen the alleged incident rather stated that the
victim’s sister witnessed, thes accused trying to commit her rape. Further
evidence of the informant that hearing cry, when she entered into the house
of the victim, had ‘seen the accused and the victim under a cloth clearly
contradicts\.by the victim herself stating that on being assaulted by the
accused, she ran away from the room and called her aunty- PW1. So, the
most “material witnesses PW 1 and PW 2, the aunty and the victim made
contradictory statement on material particular of the alleged incident. Though
as per the FIR, the victim is a foolish one to some extent and PW 5, the
accused's neighbour stated the victim is an abnormal girl to a bit but during
deposition PW 1 the informant, father and cousin sister, the close relatives of
the victim, did not made any single whisper that she is a foolish one. The

victim gave clear statement in court at the time of recording deposition.

19. The FIR, Ext. 2 reflects that since many days the accused committed
rape on the victim girl and on 27-01-2019 he was caught red handed while

committing rape but none of the witnesses deposed that prior to 27-01-2019

 
Page 8

the accused committed her rape since many days. That apart, the alleged last
rape was committed on 27-01-2019 at night and she was examined on 29-01-
2019. The medical evidence does not suggestive of any recent sexual
intercourse except old healed hymeneal tear. Though the informant stated
that the victim told her that on one earlier occasion also the accused
committed her rape but the victim herself clearly negates the same stated
that he did nothing to her on earlier occasion. In the present case, the
evidence of the PWs taken as a whole as discussed above, creates doubt

about the veracity of the prosecution version.

20. The accused during examination u/s 313 Cr.P.C. pleaded that on the
night he after consuming liquor with the victim's father proceeded together
towards the house of the victim and before reaching, home, the victim's father
asking the accused to enter into his house;,went to the back side to attend
nature’s call and accordingly, when. the accused entered into his house,
finding him in drunken state, victim’s sister rebuked him, hence the accused
went out and on next morning whenhe-went to the house of the victim to ask
the reason of abusing him on, the previous night, an altercation took place
between them and thensthe neighboring people by assaulting him, filed the
false case. Though his statement is not supported by victim’s father himself
and his pleadings ‘is not acceptable in a case of heinous crime such as rape or
sexual assault ‘but it is a cardinal principle of law that prosecution is to prove
the charge beyond reasonable doubt by producing credible evidence against
the.accused ‘and prosecution is to stand on its own legs, not on the lapse of
the. defence story. Though the law permits that the testimony of the
prosecutrix can be accepted without any corroboration, from she has to be
placed on a higher pedestal than on injured witness, but in the present case
the evidence of the witnesses including the victim suffers from inconsistencies
and contradictions in material particulars. Situated thus, the evidence given by
PW 1 to PW 5 is highly unreliable, even if their evidence is not rejected
outright as wholly unreliable, their evidence will fall at the most, in the
category of those witnesses, who are neither wholly reliable nor wholly

unreliable.

 
Page 9

21. On scanning the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, it has been
clear that there are some vital contradictions on the evidence adduced by the
prosecution witnesses, in as much as, the victim specifically stated that the
accused did not commit any bad act to her and on earlier occasion also, he
did nothing. The cumulative effects of all evidence on the record is that the

prosecution case remains doubtful.

22. Considering the evidence of prosecution witnesses in_ totality
particularly the evidence of the victim and her aunty and father.as discussed
above, it is clear that the allegation against the accused Md. Abdul.Seikh has
not been established beyond all reasonable doubt and:the, accused is entitled
to benefit of doubt.

23. Accordingly, accused Md. Abdul Seikh‘is acquitted on benefit of doubt
from the charge u/s 376(2) (I) of IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act and set him

at liberty forthwith. His bail bond shall remain in force till next six months.

24. Judgement is pronounced and*delivered in open court under the Seal
and signature of this Court.on'‘the'22"™ day of August, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

 
Page 10

APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses.

Ext. 1
Ext. 2

Ext. 3
Ext. 4
Ext. 5
Ext. 6

ONO oO & wh

PW 1
PW 2
PW 3
PW 4
PW 5
PW 6
PW 7
PW 8

: Aunty of the victim

: Victim

: cousin sister of the victim

: father of the victim

: Lakhi Limbu

: Dr. Rika Ingtipi,(M.O.)

: 1.0. SI Bipul Biswas,

: Miss J. Gogoi, Judl. Magistrate, 1° class.

Exhibits.

Medico legal report.
FIR

Sketch map
Chargesheet.
statement.of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

Order.dated28-01-2019 of PW 8.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
