 

IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SPECIAL JUDGE......... BUNI.

Present: N.U. Ahmed,
Additional Special Judge,
Bijni.

7 Special (P) Case No. 22 (B)/2018

 

 

U/S 8 of POCSO Act.
THE STATE OF ASSAM
-VS -
Md. Maijuddin Mandal .......... Accused person.
APPEARANCE :
Advocate for the prosecution : Mr. P. Dev Ray, Addl. PP.
Advocate for the defence : Mr. N. K. Ghosh, Ld. Advocate.
/ Date of Charge : 28-07-2015.
fx bol Kg 5>\ Date of Evidence : 25-08-17, 25-09-18, 26-11-18, 19-12-18 & 22-01-19.
LY, ca ~ “Date of Argument > 20-02-19.
1S { . \ Date of Judgment : 28-02-2019
c ae na is)
Xe swe ?
JUDGMENT
1 The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 07-05-17, informant (name withheld here

in after known as victim “A”) lodged an FIR with the O. C. Bijni_ P. S. alleging inter alia
that on the same day at about 5 PM, he went to Bijni Railway station for roaming and he
met accused Maijuddin Mandal and he took his mobile number. Accused over phone asked
him whether he do sex activities and he would take him to Bijni Bidyapith L. P. School for
committing sex. Accordingly, accused took him in a room of that school and asked him to
remove his long pant. He out of fear removed his long pant and accused tried to push his
penis on his carnal and at that time from back side some people came and caught them

 
   

red handed and handed over to police. Hence, the present case.

av

SI ecial divs
Bijni

2. On receipt of the FIR, O/C Bijni P.S registered the same as Bijni P.S Case No.
57/2017 U/S 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences, Act, 2012 ( here in

 

Adas

a
  
 

rsa

after known as POCSO Act) and started investigation. During investigation the
investigating arrested the accused person, visited the place of occurrence, recorded the
statement of witnesses, drew the sketch map of the place of occurrence, recorded the
statement of victim u/s 164 Cr. P. C, by a Magistrate, medically examined the victim boy,
collected the medical report of the victim boy and after completion of investigation 1.0.

submitted charge sheet against the accused U/S 8 of the POCSO Act. .

2 On receipt of the report u/s 173 of the Cr. P. C. cognizance was taken against
accused U/S 8 of the POCSO Act and started a Special (P) case against the accused

person.

4. On production of the accused person, copies of the relevant documents were
furnished to the accused: person as per provision of section 207 of the Cr. P. C. After
hearing both the sides learned Advocate and on perusal of the case diary charge was
framed u/s 8 of the POCSO Act against accused and the contents of charge was read over

and explained to the accused persons to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be

tried.

5. During trial prosecution side examined as many as nine witnesses including victim.
‘ Accused was examined u/s 313 of Cr. P. C and recorded his statement in separate sheets
al attached to the case record. The defence case was of complete denial and the defence

side has not adduced any defence evidence.

6. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of both sides. I have

gone through the case record as well as evidence on record.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

a (i) What was the age of victim “A” at the time of occurrence ?
| (ii) Whether accused on 07-05-17 at 5-30 pm at Bijni Biddyapith L. P. School,

under Bijni P.S, committed sexual assault on victim “A” and thereby committed an offence

punishable u/s 8 of the POCSO Act ?

 
  

any 7 Tt oe
a }
x /
=
\Z

()
Vi
O*
=X
\

oe]

:DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

 
 

8. To bring home the charges the prosecution examined nine witnesses including the victim.
Let me scrutinize the evidence on record to decide the points.

9. Ongoing through the evidence on record it reveals that PW2 Amrendra Ray is the father
of the victim boy who has not seen the incident, PW3 Sri Ramit Talukdar and , PW6 Sri Selbstina
Narzary had not seen the incident. PW7 is the M. O. and PW9 is the I. O. of this case. In the
present case first we should ascertain the age of the victim boy “A”.

10. PW1 A’ is the victim of the case. PW1 in his evidence stated his age 17 years. PW2 is the
father of the victim “A”. PW2 in his evidence stated that at the time of occurrence age of victim
boy was 17 years. From his evidence it also reveals that on the previous year of the incident
victim boy was appeared in Matric but could not able to success and for this reason in the year

of the incident he again appeared in Matric examination. From the evidence of PW7 it reveals

~. that the X-ray report not submitted before him and for this reason he could not ascertained the
\ age, of the victim boy. PW1 and PW2 in their evidence had not state the date of birth of the

vietin boy. Statement of the victim boy u/s 164 of the Cr. P. C. recorded on 08" May, 2017 and
/escin boy stated his age 17 years. Victim boy deposed in court on 25-08-2017 and stated

iG age 17 years. So, it appears that after four months of the incident the age of victim boy
was remain same. PW1 and PW2 in their evidence lump sum stated the age 17 years. PW1
was appeared two time in Matric examination. Hence, obviously there is document i. e
certificate of age of the victim boy. But the prosecution has not produced the school certificate
or school first attended admission register to ascertain the age of the victim boy. Though there
is document regarding age of the victim boy but the prosecution withheld the documents.
Hence, it appears that prosecution withheld the best evidence of the age of victim boy.
Moreover, before doctor no X-ray report produced by prosecution. So, an adverse presumption
would go against the prosecution that if the prosecution would produce the school certificate
it would go against the prosecution. In a criminal proceeding it is the duty of the prosecution
to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubt. But from the evidence on record it reveals that
prosecution failed to prove that age of the victim boy is below 18 years. To attract the provision
of POCSO Act the age is the prime consideration.

11. PW1 is the victim of the case. PW1 in his evidence stated that on 07- 05 -2017 at about
5- 0 PM he went to back side of Bijni Railway Station for roaming and just then he met the

> Sp
g.- Peal

fra

 

 

 
  
 
 

14. PW6 Smt. Selbstina Narzary (Ray) is the mother of the victim boy. From her evidence it
reveals that she has not seen the incident and she heard about the incident from her son.

15. PW7 Dr. P. K. Barman in his deposition has deposed that on 8-05-2017 he examined the
victim boy and found the followings:-

(i) There was no external injury.

(ii) Dental status- 7/7, 7/7=28

Impression: There is no sign of recent sexual assault. During cross-examination
he stated that the radiologist report of examination of victim not produced before him and
as such he could not ascertained the age of the victim boy.

| 16. PW8 Sri Biju Mitra in his deposition has deposed that on the day of occurrence

while he was playing Cricket at Bidyapith School field then Anubhab Chakladhar and Ratul
Bhadra took the accused and one boy from the house of school and handed over them to
Délice. Out of the boy and accused one has no cloth on the body. During cross-examination
\ ee j fe stated that police has not asked him about the incident.

 

ay

17. PW9 Smti Gumanti Brahma is the I. O. of this case. Ongoing through her evidence

it reveals that she only conducted usual investigation of the case and submitted charge
| sheet.

18. From the evidence on record it reveals that except PW1 victim boy there is no eye
witness regarding sexual assault. PW4, PW5 and PW8 saw that the accused and victim
boy entered into the house of school and some people caught them and handed over to
police. They had not seen any incident of sexual assault. The victim boy only his evidence
stated that accused asked him to remove his pant and out of fear he remove his pant.
But during his cross-examination he stated that while he and accused were talking in the
house of school then some people came from back side and caught them and handed

over them to police. The victim boy himself called the accused to the place of occurrence.

    

Though the accused asked him whether he do sex activities, yet the victim boy came to
O the place of occurrence and met the accused. Victim boy before Magistrate stated that
Q\ while accused asked him whether he do sex activities he replied in affirmative but during

us evidence he stated that he replied in negative. The prosecution failed to prove that

 

v

ial Jud
di. Special J
Ad Bijni
    
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
 
   

the age of victim boy was below 18 years at the time of occurrence. Prosecution claimed
that the age of victim boy was 17 years at the time of occurrence. So, it appears that the
victim boy has sufficient understanding capacity. There is no consistency in the evidence
of PW1. Hence, I find that the evidence of PW1 is not totally safe to rely. Moreover, even
we assume that any sexual activities happened between the accused and victim boy then

also it was consensus and as such it cannot term as sexual assault.

19. | What transpires from the above discussion is that the prosecution failed to prove
that the age of the victim boy was below 18 years at the time of occurrence and the
prosecution failed to prove the offence u/s 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused beyond
all reasonable doubt.

20. From the discussion made above, I find that the prosecution side miserably failed
\ “td prove the charges against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, accused
Sg d. Maijuddin Mandal is found not guilty u/s 8 of the POCSO Act and he is acquitted from
he charge of offence u/s 8 of the POCSO Act and set him free at his liberty forthwith.

21. Send a copy of the judgment to the District Magistrate, Chirang as per provision
of Section 365 of the Cr. P. C.

22. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case I find that this is not a fit case

to refer the matter to DLSA, Chirang for victim compensation.

23. Bail bonds furnished by the accused persons shall remain in force till next six
months from today as per provision of section 437-A of the Cr P.C.
Given under my hand & seal of this court the 28" day of February, 2019.

Mat

Typed by myself. ( N. U. Ahmed)

/ nr \% Additiénal Special Judge,
oi Bip “islge
Special Judge,

 
 

APPENDIX
(A) Prosecution witnesses:
Pw1- Victim “A”
Pw2- Sri Amarendra Ray
pw3- Sri Ramit Talukdar
pw4- Sri Anubabh Chakladhar
AG SN pWS- Sri Ratul Bhadra
| pw6- Smti Selbstina Narzar (Ray)
PwW7- Dr. P. K. Barman
pwe- Sri Biju Mitra
pw9- Smti Gumanti Brahma

 

 

(B) Defence witnesses: Nil.
(C) Prosecution exhibits:

Exhibit-1, FIR.
Exhibit-2, Statement of victim u/s 164 of the cr PB. CG.

a Ys

Exhibit-3, Medical report.
‘ Exhibit-4, Charge sheet.
(D) Defence witnesses. Nil.

(E) Defence exhibits: Nil.

———

(F) Court Witnesses: Nil.
(G) Court exhibits: Nil.

   

eK

dl Special Judge,
BijnBijni

Additi
