Page 1 of 15

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused.u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

21 OF 2016

(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 1788 of
2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS

Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
Rafiqul Islam
Son of Late Piru Seikh,
Resident of Kamarchuburi
Police Station =Thelamara
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
12/07/2016
18/08/2016, 20/01/2017,
22/03/2017 & 10/07/2017.

19/12/2017.

16/11/2018

22/11/2018.
Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah

Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Smti Dulumoni Sinha, Advocate.
Page 2 of 15

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Rafiqul Islam is put for trial for allegation of
charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The factual matrix of the case according to the FIR is that on or
about 11 a.m. of 07-06-16 informant’s minor daughter Miss X went to a
Mango tree to collect mango situated near the house of the informant,
while she was busy in collecting mango accused person. suddenly
appeared before her, gagged her mouth and forcefully took hersto a
nearby jute cultivation area and there he committed rapevon*her. She
was also threatened by accused not to disclose the matter,to anybody.
Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by» Musstt Kariman
Nessa before the O/C of Thelamara Police Station on 07-06-2016.

3. On receipt of the ejahar,,the Officer-In-Charge of Thelamara
Police Station registered a case being. Thelamara P.S. Case No. 44/16
u/s 341/506 of the IPC read with.section 6 of the POCSO Act. After
completion of usual investigation» the O/C Thelamara Police Station sent
up the accused for trial..by ‘filing charge sheet u/s 341/506 of the IPC
read with section 6‘of the POCSO Act against the accused Rafiqul Islam.

4. Qn being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both..parties, my learned predecessor-in-court framed charge under
section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused Rafiqul Islam and
particulars of the charge was read over, explained to the accused to

which he pleads not guilty and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as nine
numbers of witnesses. After completion of prosecution evidence,
accused is examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against
the accused and evidence appears against the accused are put before
him for explanation where he denied the allegations and declined to

adduce defence evidence.

 
Page 3 of 15

6. I have heard the arguments put forwarded by the learned

counsel of both the sides.
7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on or about 11 a.m. of 07-06-2016, at
Kamarchuburi under Thelamara Police Station, the
accused committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault
on the victim (12 years of age) and thereby committed an
offence punishable under section 6 of the Protection.of
Child from Sexual Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.
9. PW 1 Musstt Kariman Nessa, complainant of this case, has

deposed that she knows the accused Rafiqul Islam. Victim is her
daughter. The incident occurred about*two months 10/15 days ago, at
about 11 a.m. At the time of,incident, her daughter was a minor about
12 years and she was a.student of class V standard. At the time of
incident, she has\beenstethering cattle. After about one hour she
returned to her.homevas because there was a rain. On arrival at her
home, she saw her‘daughter/victim was crying. her daughter/victim told
her that when.she went to search Mango under the Mango tree, then
accused Rafiqul gagged her mouth, forcefully took her through a jute
plantation to a place which is back side of her sister’s house. Accused
took her under a Jack fruit tree, opened her panty and committed rape
on her. Then she informed this matter to her husband after his arrival.
On that very day, she went to the police station along with her
daughter/victim and filed an ejahar before the O/C Thelamara Police
station. The ejahar was written by one Raju Sarkar as per her
instruction. Then she put thumb impression thereon. Police recorded her
statement at the Police station. In the next day, the I.O. sent her
daughter to Tezpur Kanaklata Hospital for medical examination and
after that she was produced before the learned Magistrate and

accordingly, recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

 
Page 4 of 15

In cross-examination, she admitted that before putting thumb
impression the scribe has read over the ejahar to her. She has noticed
reddish on the face of the victim but no rupture or injury found on her
body. She has also noticed blood injury on her right thigh. At the time
of writing ejahar, she told the scribe that she has been to tether the
cattle and after one hour she has arrived at her home when the rain is
over. She has also told the scribe that on arrival at home, she has seen
her daughter/victim was crying, her daughter told her that*when she
went to search Mango under the Mango tree, accused. Rafiqul..gagged
her mouth, forcefully took her through a jute plantation to.a place which
is back side of her sister’s house, accused took her under a Jack fruit
tree, opened her panty and committed rape on her. Jarina is her elder
daughter. She has filed a case against one Maharuddin as the accused
has found them in the back side of;the accused’s house in talking each
other at dark night before two years of the incident of this case. In that

case, accused was cited as a witness from their side.

10. PW 2, the Victim Miss X has deposed that the incident took place
about two months ago-atabout 11 a.m. At the relevant time she was 12
years old. On that day’she was alone at her home. Her mother went to
paddy field to tether cattle. Her father went to his work. She went to a
nearby, Mango,tree to collect mango. During that time accused came,
gagged hersmouth, took to the back side of her aunty’s house through
jute.plantation and under a jack fruit tree he committed rape on her by
opening her pant she raised alarm. She called her cousin sister Sabikun
Nehar. Then the accused fled away. She herself went to home. At home
she was crying. While her mother enquired, she reported the incident to
her mother then her mother filed the ejahar. Police recorded her
statement. In the next day, she was examined through the doctor.
Thereafter, her statement was recorded through the learned Magistrate.
Ext. 1 is her statement and Ext. 1(1) is her signature. She stated before
the Magistrate what she has stated today.

 
Page 5 of 15

In cross-examination, she admitted that on the day of incident
her school was open but she did not go to school. She has two elder
brothers and one elder sister. While she was taken through jute
plantation area the jute trees are long. In the midst of the jute
plantation there was some water. The mango tree from where she went
to collect mango was situated near the jute plantation. There was no
fencing in the jute plantation. The area of jute cultivation is about one
bighta. Rafiqul gagged her mouth and dragged her by holding. both of
her hands. In the jute cultivation there is many thorns. AS.a=result of
dragging she sustained injury in her hands and legs. At the relevant
time she was wearing churidar, her churidar was,torn andblood stained
was in her clothes. When she was committed rape under a jack fruit
tree she sustained pain in her back. Accused ‘committed rape on her for
about half an hour. She raised alarm for.halfsan hour. In the place of
occurrence there are many persons reside in addition to her aunty. She

also sustained injury in her private parts during rape.

11. PW 3 Dr. Tutumoni Handique, stated that On 08-06-2016 she
was posted as working’ as Medical & Health Officer-1 in the Kanaklata
Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at about 1.50 p.m. in the labour
room complex of KCH, she examined Sahanara Khatoon, 12 years,
female, D/O Md. Nur Ali of Komarchuburi, PS Thelamara, in reference
to Thelamara PS Case NO. 44/16 u/s 341/506 of IPC r/w Section 6 of
the.Special POCSO Act, 2012, on being escorted and identified by
Woman Police Constable Ainup Begum of Thelamara PS vide Hospital
emergency registration No. 59500. She was examined in presence of
GNM Anna Merry. On examination she found the following:

Identification mark — mole on right cheek. Mentrual history-
regular. LMP — 23-05-2016. Exposure history- on 7 June 2016. As per
victim she was sexually assaulted by known person at day time. Height
— 147 cm., Weight — 40 Kg, Teeth — 7 in all four quadrants. Average
built, normal gait. Neat and tidy. Secondary sexual characters were
developing. No injury seen on her body as well as on her private parts.

Hymen absent.

 
Page 6 of 15

Investigations advised and reports-

1.Vaginal smear for spermatozoa — no sperm. Done at
KCH Laboratory, Lab No. 56/16.

2.X-ray for age determination — Age of the person under
investigation appears to be just below 18 years. Done at
Assam X-ray Clinical & Laboratory, Patient ID AXE 485,
Radiologist — Dr. P. K. Barman.

OPINION:

1. No sign and symptom suggestive of sexual intercourse.
2. No injury observed.

3. Age of the victim is just below 28 years.

Enclosures:

Advice slip, vaginal smear report and X-ray report and
plates.
Secondary sexual characters*starts from 12 years completed at

18 years. Ossification test.is the surer test to determine the age.

Ext. 2 isethe\Medical Report and Ext. 2 (1) is his signature. Ext.
3 is the advice ‘slip and Ext. 3(1) is his signature. Ext. 4 is the
laboratory report. Ext. 5 is the X-ray report and Ext.5 (1) is the

signature of Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist, which is known to her.

In cross-examination, the doctor admitted that though she has
opined that the patient was just below 18 years but her age may be
very two years on either side. If a girl is forcefully raped by somebody
there must have been some injury upon the body of the said girl. But in

this case she has not found any injury upon the patient.

12. PW 4 Musstt Asmina Khatoon stated that she knows the accused
Rafiqul @ Rabikul Islam. Victim is her sister-in-law (Nanad). The
incident occurred about nine months ago, at about 11 a.m. At that time
she was not at home. She went to a neihbour house. When she

returned to her home, he saw many people gathered. The victim Miss X

 
Page 7 of 15

was crying and she reported to her that while she collecting Mango,
accused gagging her mouth and committed rape on her in the jute field

under a Jackfruit tree.

In _ cross-examination, she admitted that at the time of
occurrence she was sitting in the house of Suraj Ali. The distance
between the house of Suraj Ali and from where she collected Mango is
about 100 yards. The mango tree is situated on the land of her grand
mother Amina. Near the mango tree there are houses of many people.
The Mango tree is situated on the back side of grand-mother’s house
and infront of other people’s house. She heard commotion in her home.
During that time it was raining. There were many ‘persons present there
including Anowar Hussain, Khitab Ali, NoorsAli etc. Amina Khatoon
during that time was at her house. He.saw mud in the clothes of the
victim. She saw some torn on her top. She,did not wear pant. Accused
resides at a house which is. just nearsthe house of Abdul Malek, her
maternal uncle. Jute field is situated adjacent to Mango tree. The
distance between jute field and jack fruit tree is about 20 ft. Jack fruit
tree is owned by her aunty “Mahi” Rumeja khatoon and it is situated in

the house of Rumeja,Khatoon. At about 3 / 4 p.m. police arrived.

13. PW 5Md. Noor Ali stated that he knows the accused Rafiqul @
Rabikul Islam. Victim is his daughter. The incident occurred about nine
months ago, at about 11 a.m. On that day he was not at home. He
wentsto work at about 6.30 a.m. he was informed by one boy of his
village then he returned home at about 12 O’ clock. He found people
gathering at his house. He saw his daughter with mud in her clothes.
She reported her that the accused has committed misdeed to her.
Accused forcefully dragged his daughter by gagging her mouth and
committed misdeed on her at Jute field. Thereafter, his wife filed the

case against the accused.

In Cross- examination he admitted that he has not seen the
incident himself. He cannot recall the name of the boy who has

informed him. He was working at village Nalaniduba along with two

 
Page 8 of 15

persons. One is Idrish and he cannot recall the name of other person.
When the said little boy informed him about the incident, the other two

men also heard about the incident.

14. PW 6 Amina Khatoon stated before the court that she knows the
accused Rafiqul @ Rabikul Islam. Victim is her grand-daughter. The
incident occurred on 07-06-2016, at about 11 a.m. At the time of the
incident, the age of the victim was 12 years. At the relevant time she
was at home. While her grand daughter Miss X collecting mango,
accused Robikul took her to the jute field and committed*bad‘act’(Galat
kam) on her. On hearing alarm of Sabikun she rushed.to the place of
occurrence. The incident was witnessed by..Sabikun_who is standing
with a baby. Thereafter, she went to the house of accused Robikul and
informed the matter to his mother and wife of Rabikul. Rabikul was not

at home. Thereafter, the mother of the victim lodged the case.

In cross- examination she,admitted that at the relevant time she
was sleeping in the house. When she rushed to the place of occurrence
she saw mother of Sahanara, aunty of Sahanara and other relatives.
After the incident*the.victim went to her aunty’s house Rumeja Khotton,

where she was crying,

15. \PW.7 Musstt Sabikun Nehar stated that she knows the accused
Rafiqul @*Rabikul Islam. Victim is her sister. The incident occurred on
06-07-2016, at about 11 a.m. At the relevant time she was at home.
Rabikul standing at the verendah of her Nani Amina as it was raining.
The victim went to collect Mango. Rabikul came, gagged the mouth of
victim and took her towards Jute field and jack fruit tree and committed
misdeed (galat kam) on her. Galat kam means Sahanara lying down and
upon her Rabikul was sleeping which acts are doing by husband and
wife. During that time she has a baby of three days, so she was at her
home. On hearing alarm of victim, she saw them through window.
There was a raining. On hearing her alarm Rabikul fled away. After that
the victim came to their home and told her that Rabikul committed mis

deed (galat kam) on her.

 
Page 9 of 15

In cross- examination, she admitted that the mango tree, jute

field and jackfruit tree standing just near our house.

16. PW 8 Dr. K.K. Sharma, stated that on 08-06-2016 he was
working as Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur, and on
that day in reference to Thelmara PS Case No. 44/16 u/s 341/506 of the
IPC r/w section 6 of the POCSO Act he has recorded the statement of
witness namely, Miss X, 12 years, D/O Md. Noor Ali u/s 164 Cr.P.C. at
his court chamber. The said witness was escorted and: identified by
WPC 02 A Begum. The witness gives statement voluntarily. After
recording her statement she has read over the contents of the
statement and on satisfaction said witness Miss X. put her signature in
the statement in his presence. Ext. 1(3) isxher signature. Ext. 6 is the
GR Case record being GR Case No.1788/16 and Ext. 6(1) is his order
dated 08-06-2016 and Ext. 6(2) isyhis signature.

In cross-examination, ‘he. admitted that as the witness is 12
years of age so he did-notstest_her intelligence by enquiry. Therefore,
he has recorded her statement on oath. He has stated the age of the
witness as 12 years as per forwarding report and as per her statement.
On perusal. of the record it appears that the witness was not
accompanied by..her parents hence, he directed the I.O. to hand over
thesvictim to her parents with proper escort after recording her

statement.

17;, PW 9 Sri Prasanna Saharia, the Investigating Officer of this case,
has deposed that on 07-06-2016 he was posted as 2™ Officer at
Thelamara Police Station. On that day one Koriman Ness filed an ejahar
before the police station and after receipt of the ejhar the then OC,
Kulendra Bharali register Thelamara PS Case No 44/16 under 341/506
of IPC, r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act and entrusted him to investigate the
case. Ext.7 is the said ejahar and the Ext.7(1) is the note and since of
the then OC, Kulendra Bharali. The complainant put thumb impression
on the said ejahar. Accordingly, he visited the place of occurrence,

prepared a sketch map on the place of occurrence. Ext. 8 is the sketch

 
Page 10 of 15

map and Ext. 8(1) is his signature. Thereafter, he examined the
witnesses and recorded their statement under Section 161 of the CrPC.
Then, he arrested the accused and forwarded him before the Court. The
victim was sent for medical examination and thereafter, the victim was
produced before the Court for recording her statement under Section
164 CrPC. He also collected the medical certificate along the required
document in connection with this case. On completion of investigation,
finding prima facie materials against the accused he has filed charge
sheet against the accused under Section 341/506 of IPC, r/w Section 6
of POCSO Act. After discussion of the superior officer)he.submitted the
charge sheet before the Court for trial. Ext. 9 is the charge sheet and
Ext. 9(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination, he admitted, that he has recorded the
statement of victim on the police station at an isolated room. At the
time of interrogation, he was.in uniforms, The woman police present with
him was also in uniform.\During that time the victim girl was
accompanied by her guardian.who is her mother. However, he has not
mentioned in the ‘said*mater the CD. He has not examined the scribe
who wrote the ejahar.In Ext.7 it is not mentioned who has taken the
thumb impression of the informant. They have not sent the wearing
apparels of.the victim to FSL for examination. They have also not sent
the ‘wearing: apparels of the accused for FSL examination. He has sent
thewictim before the Court on 08-06-2016 for recording her statement
under Section 164 CrPC. From the date of filing ejahar and sending the
victim to learned Magistrate for recording her statement under Section
164 CrPC, the victim was with woman constable Ainu Begum. They do
not have any specific chamber to keep vulnerable woman or children in
their police station. Therefore, if such person is kept in the police
station, any person can meet him/her at their room. At that time, the
victim was accompanied by her mother as a guardian. The victim was

medically examined on 08-06-2016.

 
Page 11 of 15

18. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence

plea is total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

19. I have heard arguments put forwarded by learned counsel for
both the parties.

20. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly,
there are wide contradictions in between the statement of victim and
other witnesses. According to the victim she was committedsrape by
accused under a Jack fruit tree but according to theéyprosecution story
she was committed rape by accused under a Mango tree. Secondly,
she consistently admitted that she was forcefully, dragged through the
jute plantation where there were many thorns and the place was
muddied as a result, she sustained injury on her legs and hands but
doctor did not find any injury on*her body. The doctor examined her on
08-06-2016 i.e. in the next_day of occurrence but doctor did not find
any injury at the time of examination. The victim also stated that she
sustained pain on her private parts and back but the doctor did not find
any such injuryeon her body at the time of examination. Besides, the
victim did not report to her mother or any person that due to such act
of the accused*she sustained injury on her legs and hands even on her
churidar\was blood stained. Besides, the I.0. has failed seize any such
blood stained clothes. Thirdly, there is an ample opportunity to flee
away»from the clutches of the accused but she did not avail so.
Fourthly, there is an ample evidence that complainant and accused has
an enmity for which the complainant has filed this false case against the
accused. Lastly, but not least according to the doctor there were no
Signs and symptoms of suggestive sexual intercourse. Had the victim be
really committed rape by the accused on the previous day of
examination, the doctor must found some injury or atleast the
symptoms of such ravishness. Under such circumstances, the accused is

entitled to get acquittal.

 
Page 12 of 15

21. On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur,
Tezpur submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond
any reasonable doubt, as such accused is required to be convicted

under the charged section of law.

22. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the learned
counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as

follows.

23. A close scrutiny of the record, it appears that to substantiate the
case, the prosecution examined as many as 9 numbers, of witnesses.
Out of 9 numbers of witnesses, 3 are official witnesses and remaining 6
numbers of witnesses are non official witnesses. It is a fact that here in
this case there is only one eye witness*whovis the victim of this case,
Other witness PW. 1 is the mother of thewictim and PW 5 is the father
of the victim, PW 4 is a close relative of the victim, PW 6 is the grand
mother of the victim, PW 7 isthe elder sister of the elder sister of the
victim. Therefore, all the unofficial witnesses are close relatives of each
other. Since there is no any. other eye witness other than the victim so
we have to scrutinize the statement of the victim to see how far the
prosecution..case ‘relied upon her statement. According to the victim at
the relevantstime when she went to collect mango from the mango tree
suddenly. accused appeared, gagged her mouth, took her under a jack
fruit free by dragging her through jute plantation and thereafter raped
on her. She raised alarm and called her causin then accused fled away.
She admitted in cross-examination that while she was taken by holding
both of her hands dragging through jute plantation where there are
many thorn she sustained injury even blood was oozing, thereby stained
her churiddar. She also admitted that during forceful rape she sustained
injury on her private parts but it is interesting to note that in the next
day of the incident the doctor has examined her but the doctor did not
find any injury. After examination, the doctor opined that no sign and
symptoms of recent sexual intercourse and injury was observed. Besides

that, sustaining of injury caused by dragging her through the jute

 
Page 13 of 15

plantation was not reported neither to her mother nor to her father or
any of the family members. Had she been really sustained injury it is
expected she could she could atleast reported the matter to her mother
but she did not do it. Secondly, according to her in the forceful
commission of rape she sustained injury in her private parts and also
sustained pain on her back but she did not find any such injury nor she
even reported the matter to the doctor about the sufferings of pain on
her back. Besides that, there is an enmity appears in between the
accused and the family of the complainant. It is PW 1, the ‘complainant
of this case who admitted that she has filed a case against one
Maharuddin as the accused has found them, in the \back side of
accused's house in talking each other at dark night*before two years of
the incident of this case. In that case, accused was cited as a witness
from their side. Thirdly, as stated above, allethe non official witnesses
are related to each other and there isvan evidence that there were many
people resides in an around the placeyof occurrence but the prosecution
has failed to examine any of the other independent witnesses. It is not
only these non official witnesses are only residents of place of
occurrence. There. is. a_clear evidence that there are many other
independent.persons were reside. Had such a hatred incident took place
in a villagewike.Kamarchuburi of Thelamara, local people must have
known, about the incident. Non examination of any other independent
witnesses also cast a doubt to the alleged occurrence. Fourthly, it
appears that according to the FIR accused committed rape on the jute
plantation by taking the victim by gagging her mouth but victim clearly
stated that she was committed rape by the accused under a jack fruit
tree from the place where she was collecting mango. Therefore, the
place of occurrence as stated in the FIR is contradictory with the place

of occurrence as mentioned by the victim and other witnesses.

24. The main evidence in all such cases is that of the victim herself.
In practice a conviction for rape almost entirely depends on the
credibility of the woman, so far as the essential ingredients are

concerned, the other evidence being merely corroborative. It is not

 
Page 14 of 15

necessary that there should be independent corroboration of every
material circumstance in the sense that the independent evidence in the
case, apart from the testimony of the complainant, should in itself be
sufficient to sustain conviction. All that is required is that there must be
some additional evidence rendering it probable that the story of the
complainant is true and that it is reasonably safe to act upon it.

Besides that, law is also well settled by a catena of decisions of
the Supreme Court that there is no rule of law or practice.that the
evidence of the prosecutrix cannot be relied upon without corroboration
and as such it has been laid down that corroboration.is not®a ‘sine qua
non for a conviction in a rape case.

In the instant case, as discussed details above, the only witness
i.e. the victim cannot be reliable, convincing andstrust worthy to convict
the accused as the statement of the, said victim cannot inspire

confidence in my mind.

25. Under such circumstances, the accused Rafiqul Islam is entitled
to get the benefit of doubt. Hence, acquit him on benefit of doubt and
set him at liberty forthwith.

26. Theliability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

Given ‘under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 22"
day of November, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:
Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
2S & Gre i

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8
Prosecution Witness No.9

Exhibit 1

Page 15 of 15

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- Muss Kariman Nessa, complainant.
- Victim.

- Dr. Tutumoni Handique, M.O.

:- Musstt Asmina Khatoon

- Md. Noor Ali

:- Amina Khatoon

- Musstt Sabikun Nehar

i= Mr. K.K. Sharma, Addl.CJM.Sonitpur.
:- Sri Prasanna Saharia, I.O.

EXHIBITS.

: 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the.victim.

Ext. 1(1) & 1(2): Signatures of the victim.

Ext. 2,3, 4 & 5: Medical reporty Advice slip, laboratory report, x-ray

report.

E

x

Ext. 5(1)
Ext. 6

t. 2(1) and 3(1): signatures of the Doctor.

: Signature.of Dr. P.K. Barman.

: GR'case No. 1788/16

Ext. 6(2), 1(3): ‘Signatures of learned CJM, Mr. K.K. Sharma.

Ext. 6(1)
Ext. 7
Ext.. 8
Ext. 9
E

x

~order dated 08-06-2016.
: Ejahar.

: Sketch map.

: Chargesheet.

t. 7(1), 8(1) & 9(1) : Signatures of the I.O.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
