IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS J UDGE, SI VASAGAR

Present:- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions J udge,
Sivasagar.

Special (P) Case No. 31 of 2014 U/S 6 of POCSO Act
(Arising out of Sapekhati P.S. Case No. 47/2014)

State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Rohini Borah. ............00608 Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Sri A. K. Bora, P.P.
For the accused Mr. Sk. Shamsher, Advocate
Date of framing Charge: 10.07.2015
Dates of Evidence 01.12.1015, 17.03.2016, 08.07.2016,
01.09.2016, 08.02.2017, 12.06.2017.
Date of S/D 10.07.2017
Date of Argument 30.08.2017
Date of J udgment 12.09.2017
JUDGMENT
1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 03.09.2014 one Sri Jadab

Baruah lodged an FIR with O/C Sapekhati Police Station alleging inter alia that
about 4 (four) months back while his minor daughter victim 'P' (name withheld),
a student of Class |X, was alone in the house, accused Rohini Borah by enticing
her to marry and also under threat, committed rape on her. It is also mentioned
in the FIR that on the date of FIR, the victim was pregnant of 4 (four) months.
Due to her abnormal behaviour on 29.08.2014, the victim was shown to Doctor
and the fact of pregnancy was detected. On asking the victim, she revealed the
truth and on 30.08.2014, during communication with the family members of the
accused, he confessed his guilt in presence of his family members. Thereafter
on spreading of the news of the incident in the village, on 30.08.2014 accused

fled away with another girl.
2. On this FIR, Sapekhati P.S. Case No. 47/14 U/S 493/376 IPC R/W
Section 4/6 of POCSO Act was registered and investigated into. During
investigation, accused was arrested and was remanded to judicial custody. The
victim was medically examined and her statement was recorded in Court U/S
164 Cr.P.C. On completion of investigation, 1.0. has submitted Charge-Sheet
against the accused U/S 493/376 IPC R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the charge-sheet and upon appearance of the
accused, vide order dated 10.07.2015, my learned predecessor in office has
framed the charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act against the above named accused to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial. During trial, prosecution

has examined as many as eight witnesses including 1.0.

4, Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial and false implication.
Accused declined to adduce evidence, when he was called upon to enter into
defence.

Di. | have heard argument of learned P.P. Mr. A.K. Bora and Mr. Sk.
Shamsher, learned defence counsel and gone through the evidence and

documents. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE =-

6. (1) What was the age of the victim 'P' on the date of the alleged
occurrence?

(11) Whether prior to 4 (four) months of filing of the FIR the accused has
committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim 'P'?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :

7. PW 1 the victim in her evidence deposed that about 8 months ago
one day at around 2.30 pm while she was sitting alone in her house, the
accused came to her house and commit rape upon her. Due to misdeed by the
accused, she became pregnant. At that time, she was the student of class |X.
Subsequently, she gave birth to a female child who is presently 7 months old.

During her cross-examination, she replied that she stated before the police that
one day while her parents are absent Rohini came to her house. She did not
say anything to the police about her brother and brother's wife. She further
replied that the age of the female child was 7 months and the incident took
place around 8 months ago. She denied the defence suggestion that the
incident is false for which there is no similarity in her statement given before
police and in the court. She further denied the defence suggestion that at the
time of incident she was 19 years old and she deposed falsely that she was
reading in class IX. She admitted that prior to the incident, she dance with the
accused together. Accused used to come to her house as he was the friend of

her brother.

8. PW 2 Jadav Baruah deposed that there was physical relation
between the accused and victim and as a result she gave birth of a female child.
The age of the child is 6% months. During his cross he replied that victim did
not tell anybody regarding the incident till she was 8 months pregnant. He
admitted that at the time of marriage, his son Biswajit was 21 years old. Victim

was born after 1% year of the birth of Biswajit.

9. PW 3 Nirupoma Konwar deposed that about 2 years ago she
heard that victim became pregnant. She along with other women of the village
went to the house of victim and on being asked victim replied that accused
raped her and make her pregnant. During her cross she replied that her house

is about 1% km far from the house of victim.

10. PW 4 Sashiprova Baruah deposed that the incident took place
about two years ago when victim was reading in class |X. During their absence,
accused came to her house while victim was alone and established physical
relationship with her by giving her false promise of marriage. Victim became
pregnant. After 3 months, when Victim was’ taken to doctor, the doctor
declared that she was pregnant. Subsequently, Victim giving birth of a child.
The age of the child was 1 month. Her husband lodged an ejahar. During her
cross, she replied that his son's name is Biswajit. She denied the suggestion of
the defence that one Bharat Saikia was the friend of her son and he used to

come to the house regularly. She also denied that at the time of incident,
victim was 20 years old. She further replied that Biswajit married her sister's
daughter for which the society abandoned her family and in this process, father

of the accused played a major role.

11. PW 5 Mokendra Konwar deposed that at the time of incident the
father of Victim informed him that there was a love affair between the accused
and victim and there was physical relationship between them for which Victim
became pregnant. He further deposed that he asked the victim about the
incident and Victim replied that accused give her assurance to marry and
established physical relationship for which she became 3-4 months pregnant.
He decided to handover victim to the accused but the accused eloped with
another girl. During his cross, he replied that he has not stated before police
that there was love affair between them and was physical relationship was

established for which she became pregnant.

12. PW 6 John Kr.Gogoi deposed that father of Victim told him that
there was love affair between the accused and Victim and due to physical
relationship between them Victim became pregnant. He further stated that
Victim has one year old female child. The accused did not marry the victim.
During his cross he replied that the statement he made in court is hearsay. He
also denied the suggestion of defence that he did not state before the police
that the father of victim told him that there was love affair between accused

and Victim and due to physical relationship Victim became pregnant.

13. PW 7 Dr. Diganta Chetia, in his evidence deposed that on
04.09.2014, he examined the victim P in connection with Sapekhati P.S. Case
No. 47/14, U/S 493/376 IPC r/w Sec. 4/6 of Pocso Act and upon examination,
he is the opinion that her age is below 18 years and above 15 years at the time
of the examination. PW 7 also deposed that on the date of examination, victim

was carrying 8 weeks 3 days pregnancy. Ext. 3 is the medical reprot.

14. PW 8 Sri Dipen Patar, i/o of this case, in his evidence deposed
that during investigation, he went to the place of occurrence i.e. residence of

informant at Ujanrikuri Gaon and drawn a sketch map of the PO. Exbt. 4 is the
said sketch map. Victim was sent for medical examination and also sent to
Court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. During investigation, he has
collected the medical report and statement given by victim in court. On
14.09.2014, accused Rohini Bora ahs surrendered at Sapekhati PS. He was
arrested and forwarded to Court for judicial custody. On completion of
investigation, he has submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 493/376
IPC r/w sec 4 of POCSO Act. Exbt. 5 is the charge sheet. In his cross-
examination the I/O admitted that as per FIR victim was a student of class |X of
Baregaon High School. He did not collect the age proof document from her
school or did not collect her birth certificate. Victim in her statement before him
did not state that rape was committed at 2.30 pm. However, she stated before
him that accused committed physical relation with her while she was alone.
Witness Jan Kr. Gogoi in his statement did not state that from father of the
victim he came to know about love affairs and physical relationship but said
witness stated that for physical relationship accused her daughter become

pregnant.

15. In the course of argument hearing learned P.P. has submitted that
the sole evidence of the victim is sufficient to hold the accused guilty. He also
pointed out that as the fact of pregnancy is proved by the medical evidence, so
there is no doubt on the point of penetrative sexual assault upon the victim and
hence case should be treated as proved against the accused. On the other hand
Mr. Sk. Shamsher, learned Advocate appearing for the accused by pointing out
the evidence on record, has submitted that on the alleged date of occurrence
apparently the victim was above the age of 18 years as admitted by her father.
Moreover, by referring the medical evidence and the contents of the FIR and
the evidence of the victim, it is pointed out that there is no possibility of having
committed rape prior to 4 (four) months of filing the FIR and finding on the age
of the foetus at the womb of the victim as admitted by P.W. 7 Medical Officer.
Learned defence counsel has also argued that from the evidence of Medical
Officer, it is clear that the victim has not implicated the accused at the earliest

point of time and even she did not disclose the name of the accused before her
mother. It is further argued that admittedly, there is apparent cause of false
implication as father of the accused has taken lead to socially boycott the family
of the informant/victim due to marriage of the brother of the victim with her
first cousin. It is also pointed out that the evidence is the self contradictory and
as such the evidence of the victim alone cannot be relied upon to hold the
accused guilty. Learned Advocate of the defence has placed reliance on the
reported case of 2008 (Suppl) GLT 138. | have considered the submissions of

learned Advocate of both the sides.

16. Point I: So far, age of the victim is concerned, the prosecution did
not prove any document on the age of the victim though she was a student of
Class 1X. From the evidence of P.W. 7 Medical Officer, it appears that upon
radiological examination, he has opined the age of victim in between 15 years
to 18 years. The victim in her evidence as P.W. 1 has stated that at the time of
incident she was a student of Class |X. However, P.W. 2 the father of the victim,
In his cross-examination stated that his son Biswajit who was married at that
time, was aged about 21 years and the victim born after 1% years of Biswajit.
By this calculation, on the date of alleged incident, the victim was aged about

19% years.

17. Hon'ble Gauhati High Court in the case of 2008 (Suppl) GLT 138

Tazuddin Laskar-Vs- State of Assam as relied by the learned defence counsel,

has held that ...
"(5 ) The prosecution came up with the plea that at the relevant point of
time the victim was a student of class |X but surprisingly the prosecution
has not produced any school certificate or birth certificate in support of
the age of the victim. PW 1 was examined by the doctor and on the basis
of the ossification test the doctor opined that the girl is above 16 years
and below 17 years of age. The result of such ossification test may vary

by two years on either side and thus the benefit of this must go to the
accused and we hold that the girl was about 18 years of age.”

18. The above case appears to be fully applicable in this case. It may
be mentioned here that though some argument has been advanced regarding
age of the victim but to my mind the age of the victim is irrelevant in this case

because as the fact that there was a allegation of rape under threat and under
assurance of marriage. So, apparently it was not a case of consenting sex.
However, for academic purpose | hold that age of the victim is above 18 years

of age.

19. Point No. II:- The fact that on the date of FIR victim was pregnant
was not under challenge or denial. As such court has to look as to whether, it
was accused who made the victim pregnant. Admittedly the FIR was filed after
A4(four) months of occurrence. There was no eye-witness of the occurrence, so
far seeing the accused in committing rape with the victim or even seeing the
accused coming to the house of the victim or going out of the house of the
victim on the relevant day. As such, the whole case is based on the evidence/

Statement of the victim and the circumstances brought by prosecution.

20. If we look at the evidence of the victim as narrated by her, it is
clear that about 8 months back |.e. from the date of deposition, on the date of
incident while she was alone in her house about 2-30 pm, accused entered her
house from back side door and committed rape on her. Accused did the
misdeed for two days, for which she got pregnant. Subsequently she delivered
one child presently aged about 7 (seven) months. In her cross-examination she
admitted that on the date of incident her brother Biswajit Baruah, his wife
Mridula Baruah and other family members are present in their house. But
subsequently she denied about their presence. She denied that accused did not
commit rape on her. She further admitted that prior to this incident accused
and she performed Bihu dance and accused being a friend of her brother came
to her house. Inspite of stopping her menstrual period, for 4(four) months she

did not inform her family members.

21. The P.W. 2 father of the victim simply stated that his daughter
became pregnant due to physical co-habitation by the accused with her. He
admitted that till 4 (four) months of her pregnancy she has not stated the fact
to them. From the evidence of P.W. 3 it appears that she came to know from
the victim that the accused has committed rape on her and caused her
pregnant. From the evidence of P.W. 4, mother of the victim a new story

developed. She deposed that physical co-habitation was done on the assurance
of marriage. P.W. 5 and 6 went ahead and deposed that having love affairs the
physical relationship was established between the accused and the victim. On
being asked the victim stated her that on the assurance of marriage accused

has established the physical relationship.

22. From the above evidence as available in the record adduced by
the prosecution during trial shows that two different versions came out. One is
of rape without anything else and other version is assurance of marriage and
then physical co-habitation was done. If we look at the statement of the victim
given u/s 164 Cr.P.C, (Ext.1) she stated that accused came to her house on two
occasions and committed sex against her will and threatened her that if she
disclosed it, she will be killed. The second part of her evidence regarding
commission of rape under threat is missing while given statement in Court. The
evidence of having physical relationship by the accused after assurance of
marriage has not stated by the victim in her evidence during trial. But PW 4, 5
& 6 has stated the same which they heard from the victim and her father. So
there is apparently a discrepancy of the stand taken by the victim at different

point of time.

23. The P.W. 7, Medical Officer in his cross-examination admitted that
patient told the history before him and while giving history the patient did not
give him details regarding the sexual assault or the person involved causing the
sexual assault. From the evidence of P.W. 4, mother of the victim in her cross
admitted that initially on being asked how she became pregnant, the victim did
not disclose anything to her. So, from the above it creates a doubt regarding

the involvement of the accused as same was not disclosed at earliest.

24. Apart from above, the other prime aspect is time of pregnancy.
According to the victim and the other witnesses the incident of rape took place
about 4 (four) months back on the date of filing of the FIR. However, while
medically examining the victim, P.W. 7, the medical officer has categorically
opined that the victim is carrying early pregnancy of 8 weeks 3 days as per
sonography report. The Medical Officer in his cross-examination has specifically

Stated that no connection was possible for a sexual assault prior to four months
and pregnancy of 8 weeks 3 days. Thus the medical opinion clearly rules out
that the pregnancy was caused for the alleged rape done on the victim four

months back.

25. | found force on the submissions of learned counsel for the
defence that there cannot be any casual connection between the alleged rape
prior to four months of filing of the FIR and foetus found on the womb of the

victim on the date of medical examination.

26. It may be pointed out in the argument hearing of the learned
defence counsel put much stretch on the evidence of the victim by referring the
decision that while adducing evidence on 01.12.2015 she stated that the
incident took place about 8 months back and the later stage she deposed that
age of the child delivered by her was 7 (seven) months. | am not inclining to
put much importance to this simply because this may arose due to
miscalculation of period. It may be recalled that FIR was lodged on 3.9.2014
while the victim was four months pregnant and she was medically examined on
4.9.2014 and ultra-sonography was done on 10.9.2014. So the mention of the
period of incident might be due to lack of knowledge of the victim as long

period was passed.

27. Now the other aspect as argued to disbelieve the evidence of the
victim and other witnesses so far implication of the accused Is concerned, is
previous animosity between the family members of the victim and the father of
the accused. Admittedly Biswajit Baruah married one Mridula Baruah who
happens to be his cousin and for this marriage, the family of the victim was
socially boycotted. It is admitted by the victim and her father that, in isolating
them from the society, father of the accused has taken lead and therefore some
grudge against the family of the accused. Though P.W. 1 and 2 denied to have
filed this false case out of that grudge, the evidence as narrated above,
particularly the evidence of medical officer clearly ruled out any possibility of

rape and pregnancy.

28. Allegation of rape prior to four months and existence of a fetus of
8 weeks 3 days has clearly lead me to draw a presumption of the fact that
there is every possibility of false implication of the accused with the alleged
incident of rape. The evidence of the victim for the discrepancies mentioned

above cannot be relied upon without corroboration on material points.

29. Non disclosure of the vital fact of rape soon after the occurrence
appears to be fatal in this case because in her evidence in Court, neither she
has stated about any promise to marry her nor she deposed about any threat
given by the accused for not divulging the fact of rape before her parents.
Keeping mum for four months till the date of detection of pregnancy and then
implicating the accused with her pregnancy creates a suspicion on reliability of
her evidence to implicate the accused with the alleged incident of rape and

responsibility for causing her pregnant.

30. In view of above finding, | hold that the prosecution has failed to
prove the case beyond reasonable doubt and accordingly accused Rohini Borah
is acquitted from the charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act on benefit of doubt and set at
liberty forthwith.

31. The bail bonds executed by the accused and his surety stand

extended for another six months from today.

32. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the matter is
not referred to DLSA for granting compensation U/S 357(A) Cr.P.C.

BS. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

34, Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 12" day of
September, 2017 at Sivasagar.

Sessions J udge
Sivasagar
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses :
P.W.1- Victim P
P.W.2- Sri Jadav Baruah
P.W.3- Smti. Niropoma Konwar
P.W.4- Smt. Sashiprobha Baruah
P.W.5- Sri Mokendra Konwar
P.W.6- SriJan Kr. Gogoi
P.W.7- Dr. Pranjal Kumar Gogol
P.W.8- Sri Dipen Patar (1.0.)

2. Defence witnesses - Nil.

3. Court witnesses - Nil.

4. Exhibits by prosecution -
Exbt.1 - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of victim

Exbt.2 - FIR

Exbt.3 - Medical report
Exbt.4 - Sketch map
Exbt.5 - Charge-Sheet

Sessions J udge
Sivasagar
