1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present

Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution
For the accused
Argument heard on

Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Special 20/2018 corresponding to GR _ Case
No.647/2018 & Khatkhati Police Station Case No.
81/2018 Under Section 448/323 of IPC and under
section 4 R/W section 18 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Rakesh Kr. Yadav @ Rai

Name of informant/complainant:

Smti Guddy Kumari
D/o Late Mohan Roy
Village: Lahorijan
P.S : Khatkhati, District: Karbi Anglong
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Rakesh Kr. Yadav
S/O Shri Bihari Rai
Vill-Lahorijan
P.S : Khatkhati
District: Karbi Anglong.

: Mr D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
: Mr Jitu Paul
: 20.11.2018.

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 20.11.2018

JUDGMENT

It is a case of house trespass, voluntarily causing hurt

with attempt to commit penetrative sexual assault alleged
2|Page

to have been committed by the accused, Shri Rakesh Kr.
Yadav.

The prosecution case in brief is that on 22.06.2018 the
informant, Smti Guddy Kumari lodged an ejahar with
Khatkhati Police Station stating inter alia that on the night
of 21.06.2018 at about 10:00 O’ Clock, the accused
along with two other persons illegally entered into her
house and hugged her with the attempt to commit rape
upon her. At that time, her mother appeared there and
being followed by a quarrel, the accused assaulted her
mother causing grievous injuries to her. Then the accused
fled away while neighbouring persons gathered there. On
receipt of the written ejahar, O/C, Khatkhati Police Station
registered a criminal case vide Khatkhati Police Station
case No.81/2018 U/S 325 of IPC R/W 8 of the the POCSO
Act against the accused person. On completion of the
investigation, charge-sheet was submitted under sec.323
IPC R/W 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused person.

Hence the prosecution case has come up.

On completion of appearance of the accused person
before this Court, copy was furnished to him. Having
very carefully gone through submissions of learned
lawyers of both sides as well as case diary, this Court
found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused
person had committed the offences U/S 448/323 of IPC
and U/S 4 of the POCSO Act R/W section 18 of the said
act and accordingly, the charges were framed. The
particulars of the charged offences were duly read over
and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.
3|Page

4.

During trial, Prosecution has examined two witnesses
including the informant-cum-alleged victim. Accused
person has been examined U/S 313 of Cr.P.C. Defense

examined none. Plea of defence is of total denial.

Points for determination are:

(i) Whether the accused person, Shri Rakesh Kr.
Yadav on 21.06.2018 at village Lahorijan under Khatkhati
police station illegally entered into the house of the
informant, Smti Guddy Kumari and that he thereby
committed an offense punishable U/S 448 of the IPC?

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same time
and place voluntarily caused hurt to Smti Prabhati Devi
and thereby he committed an offence punishable under
section 323 of the IPC?

(iii) Whether the accused person on the same time
and place attempted to commit penetrative sexual assault
upon Smti Guddy Kumari aged 16 years and _ thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 4 of the
POCSO Act R/W section 18 of the said act?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through the submissions of
learned lawyers of both sides as well as evidence on
record. In the very beginning, learned lawyer appearing
on behalf of the accused has submitted that the
prosecution has totally failed to prove its case beyond all
reasonable doubts. On the other hand, refuting the
aforesaid submission, learned Public Prosecutor, Mr D.K.

Deka has submitted that prosecution has duly succeeded
4|Page

in establishing its case. Prior to forming an opinion on the
rival submissions made by the parties, I would like to give

a glance at evidence on record.

PW-1 is Smti. Pravati Devi has deposed that she knows
the informant and the accused person. The alleged victim
is her daughter. The occurrence took place one year ago.
At the time of occurrence, she went to a shop for buying
eggs. During the said time of going to the shop, a sister
of the victim was staying there but she was ailing and
mentally retarded. When she came back from the shop,
she found the victim crying On being asked, the victim
told that at the time of going to shop, the accused came
to their house. By that time, the accused suddenly
appeared before them and started beating her by a
bamboo stick. She immediately informed the matter to
police over phone. Then the accused fled away from their
house. It was 11:00 PM at that time. At the time of

occurrence, the victim was 16 years old.

PW-2, Miss Guddy Kumari is the informant of this case
who deposed that on the night of the occurrence at about
10:00 O’ Clock, her mother went to a shop for bringing
eggs. At that time, she was enjoying TV. Although she
has a sister, but she is ailing. In the meantime, the
accused entered into her house and caught hold of her
hand. She made herself free from the hands of the
accused by giving him a kick and then she went out. She
saw her mother coming towards their house and then the
accused fled away. On arrival of her mother, while she
was narrating the incident, the accused again came to

their house and started beating her mother by a bamboo
5|Page

10.

stick. Her mother cried. Thereafter, the accused left the
place. Her mother informed the matter to the police. The
police went to the house of the accused taking them, but
they did not find the accused in his house. Thereafter,
she lodged the ejahar at Khatkhati police station. The
Police got her statement recorded in the Court. Ext.2 is
her statement and Ext.2(1), 2(2) and 2(3) are her
Signatures. Her father died two years ago of the
occurrence. She has a mentally retarded sister. She is
continuing her study as she is being helped by Mandir
Committee of their locality and by elderly persons. After
the occurrence, her whole family is suffering a lot of
mentally. At the time of occurrence, she is 15 (fifteen)
years old.

During cross examination, PW-1 told that the accused is
their familiar person and he often used to come to their
house. She failed to understand as to why the accused
assaulted her. To the best of her knowledge, the accused

did not commit any physical contact with her daughter.

PW-2 Miss Guddy Kumari in her cross examination
deposed that the accused person has visiting terms with
them and he used to take meal in their house. On the day
of occurrence itself, the family members of the accused
came to their house for taking meal. But at the time of
occurrence, the other family members of the accused
were not present. The accused did not commit any
physical contact with her. While the accused was beating
her mother, neighbouring people came there after
hearing the shouting of her mother. Then the accused left

the place. She further told that the ejahar was written by
6|Page

11.

12.

13.

somebody as per her instruction. She has no objection if

the accused is acquitted by the Court.

In order to prove the offence U/S 448 of IPC, illegal
entrance must be proved. As regards the illegal entrance
of the accused, PW-1 could not say anything. On the
other hand, although it has come in the evidence of PW-2
that she has an ailing sister, but she was not examined
by the prosecution to prove the fact that accused had
illegally entered into their house. Hence, it is found that
the ingredients of offence U/S 448 of IPC are not proved

at all.

From the deposition of the PW-2, it is found that while
she was enjoying TV, the accused came and caught hold
of her hand. But she somehow freed herself from the
hands of the accused. To prove this part of deposition,
the prosecution should have examined her sister who was
available in the house at the time of occurrence. As her
sister was in the house at the time of occurrence, she
would have been the best and material witness to prove
the fact of catching the hand of the victim by the accused
person. On the other hand, PW-1 did not see the accused
catching the hand of her alleged victim-daughter. Hence,
offence under POCSO Act has not been proved at all

against the accused person.

From the depositions of both the witnesses, it is found
that the accused assaulted the mother of the alleged
victim by a bamboo stick. The fact of assaulting the
mother of alleged victim is also supported by the ejahar.
On perusal of the case diary, this Court also found that

the investigating police officer while recording the
7|Page

14.

15.

16.

17.

statements of the victim and her mother, they told before
him about the assault given by the accused by means of
a bamboo stick to PW-1. The defence side has failed to
Shake the evidence of PW-1 and PW-2 as to the assault

given by the accused to Smti. Prabhati Devi.

From the discussions made above regarding the
offence of voluntarily causing hurt by the accused, this
Court has come to conclusion that the prosecution has
proved the case beyond all reasonable doubts.
Accordingly, the accused is found guilty U/S 323 of IPC.

Hence, he is convicted under this section of law.

ORDER

 

In the result, I find the accused person guilty under

section 323 IPC and he is convicted accordingly.

On the point of sentence, the accused is heard. It has
been submitted by the learned lawyer appearing on
behalf of the accused person that the accused is entitled
leniency in sentencing him. Considering all aspects the
accused is here by ordered to suffer SI for 3 (three)
months. Set off his earlier detention period. Furnish a free
copy of judgment and order to the accused immediately.

Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

Given under hand and seal of this Court today, this the
20" day of November, 2018.
8|Page

Dictated and corrected by me.

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. ,Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW1- Smti.Prabhati Devi.
PW2- Smti. Guddy Kumari.
Defence witness : Nill.

Prosecution exhibit:

Ext.1- Ejahar.
Ext.2- Statement of the victim.

Defence witness: Nil.

Defence exhibit : Nil.

Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
