HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE BILASIPARA

Present:- Smti S. Bhuyan, AJS
Special Judge, Bilasipara
Special( POCSO) Case No- 09 of 2018

u/s 447/354(A) and 8 of POCSO Act
STATE
Versus

Ahed Ali

S/O Ld. Abdul Rahim

R/O vill- Suapata Pt ITI,

PS- Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri, Assam

Accused person

(Corresponding to GR Case No- 1045/18 u/s 120(B)/451 I.P.C r/w section 8 of

POCSO Act)
Advocate appeared: -
For the state:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Special P.P.
For the accused:- Smt. Syeda Afroza Akhtar, Advocate.
Date of institution of the case :- 26-06-18
Date of Framing charge :- 14-12-18
Date of prosecution evidence :- 18-01-19, 06-03-19, 08-03-19, 11-03-19

Statement of accused recorded on — :- 25-03-19
Date of Argument :- 25-03-19

Judgment delivered :- 30-03-19
2|Page

JUDGMENT
Prosecution Case

1. Prosecution case as reveal from Ext-2 ejahar is that accused Ahed Ali on
24-06-18 at about 05.00 pm, taking advantage of absence of informant and his
wife, criminally trespassed into the house of informant and made attempt to
commit rape on informant’s daughter Somiran Nessa 12 years old and accused
undressed her, hold her forcefully while she was present near tube well. Hearing
her cry, nearby people rushed to the place of occurrence and seen accused
running away from the place of occurrence. To this fact, informant Somer Uddin
lodged written ejahar before O/C Bilasipara PS.
Investigation

2. Officer in charge Bilasipara PS, on receipt of ejahar from informant Somer
Uddin registered a police case vide Bilasipara PS case no. 731/18 u/s 120(B)/451
IPC r/w section 8 of POCSO Act and SI Indreswar Pathak was entrusted to
conduct the investigation of the case and after completion of investigation I/O
submitted charge sheet u/s 451/354(A) IPC r/w section 8 of POCSO Act against

the accused Ahed Ali and cognizance taken.

Charge

3. After hearing learned counsel for both sides and perusal of material on
record charge u/s 447/354(A) IPC and_ section 8 of POCSO Act was framed
against the accused Ahed Ali and when charges are read over and explained to
the accused person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
Trial

4. In order to prove the prosecution charges against the accused person,
prosecution adduce evidence of all together 9 number of witnesses and exhibited
6 nos. of documents. PW-1 Miss X (victim girl), PW-2 Samiruddin, PW-3 Dr.
Madhumita Das (M.O), PW-4 Sanowar Hussain, PW-5 Montu Ali, PW-6 Sumar Ali,
PW-7 Nur Islam, PW-8 Mazid Ali, PW-9 SI Indreswar Pathak (1.0). Ext-1
Statement of PW-1 recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C, Ext-2 Ejahar, Ext-3 Medical
examination report, Ext-4 Seizure list, Ext-5 Sketch Map and Ext-6 Charge sheet.
3|Page

After closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of the accused person
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Accused plea is denial, however declined to adduced
evidence in support of the plea of denial.

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

i) Whether accused on 24-06-18 at about 05.00 pm at village Suapata Pt
III under Bilasipara PS, committed trespass by entering into the
compound of informant Somer Uddin with intent to sexually assault
informant’s daughter Miss X?

ii) Whether accused on 24-06-18 at about 05.00 pm at village Suapata Pt
III under Bilasipara PS, committed physical contact and advanced
involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures with Miss X and made
demand for sexual favour from Miss X against her will?

iii) Whether accused on 24-06-18 at about 05.00 pm at village Suapata Pt
III under Bilasipara PS, committed sexual assault on Miss X aged about

12 Y2 years old by touching on her chest and private parts?

ARGUMENT
6. I have heard Id. counsel for both sides. It has been argued by the Id.
defence counsel that informant as well victim of this case did not supported the
prosecution case and from their evidence it is reveal that no such incident was
took place as alleged in the ejahar and therefore accused entitled acquittal.
PROSECUTION EVIDENCE

7. PW-1 Miss X is the victim girl. She deposed about 6-7 months back
accused Ahed Ali sent one person as marriage ghatak and through said
messenger (ghatak) accused Ahed Ali sent his marriage proposal for her but her
father disagreed the marriage proposal as she is minor girl and altercation took
place in between her parents and accused Ahed Ali and her father lodged the
case. She deposed after lodging the case, police recorded her statement,
medically examined her by doctor and produced her before the court to record
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C and police arrested accused Ahed Ali after lodging
of ejahar by her father. In cross she stated accused Ahed Ali did not misbehave

with her nor he indecently act with her. She stated she did not witness the
4|Page

incident of altercation that took place between her parents and accused Ahed Ali.
She further stated presently she cannot recollect what statement she made
earlier before the Ld. Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

8. PW-2 Samir Uddin is the informant of the case. He deposed about 7
months back altercation took place with accused Ahed Ali on account of his
refusal to accused Ahed Ali’s marriage proposal for his daughter Samiran. At that
time as his daughter was minor, so he lodged the case and except the incident of
altercation, no other incident was took place with accused Ahed Ali. He deposed
Ext-2 is ejahar and he had put his thumb impression on Ext-2. In cross he
stated he is illiterate person. Ejahar was not read over to him after writing and
he is unable to say what was actually written in the ejahar. He stated accused
Ahed Ali did no indecent act with his daughter.

9. PW-3 Dr. Madhumita Das is M.O. She deposed on 26-06-18 at about
05.30 pm she had examined Miss X, aged about 12 2 years old under reference
Bilasipara PS medical requisition number 954/18 dated 26-06-18 and on
examination she found- no injury. She deposed Ext-3 is medical examination
report and Ext-3(1) and 3(2) are her signatures. Defence declined to cross
examine PW-3.

10. PW-4 Sanowar Hussain deposed about 4 - 5 months back while he was
coming from the collage and went to Bilasipara police station to make enquiry of
his land dispute, police took his signature on a paper and signature was taken at
about 01:00 PM on that day. He deposed Ext-3 is seizure list and Ext-3(1) is his
signature. Defence declined to cross examine PW-4.

11. PW-5 Montu Ali deposed about one year back he put his signature on Ext-
4 seizure list and Ext-4(1) is his signature. In cross he stated he used to visit
police station and write ejahar at the police station whenever he was asked to
write ejahar by the person concerned and therefore police know him. He stated
police took his signature on white paper.

12. PW-6 Sumar Ali deposed about 6 - 7 months back he heard that there is
some “bhejal” and “kechal” between the girl and boy that is in between accused
and victim girl. PW-6 is declared hostile by the prosecution. In cross by
prosecution he denied he made statement before the police that on 26-06-
2018 Sumer Uddin of Suapata Pt-III informed him that on 24-06-2018 accused
5|Page

Ahed Ali of the same village who was hiding near the tube well of his
(sumeruddin) house came out suddenly, hold sumeruddin’s daughter Miss X,
aged about 12 years while she went to wash utensil in the tube well and touch
her body, touch her private parts, breast and tortured her(sexually assaulted her)
and accused did video and he had seen the video of the same in the mobile of
Mojid Ali of Suapata Pt-III and Ahed Ali send the video to the mobile of Mojid Ali
and when he asked Miss X, she disclosed the incident to him. He stated after
knowing the true incident he had suppressed the fact of the incident to save
accused Ahed Ali from his guilty. In cross by defence he stated he did not
made statement before the police as read over to him by the Ld. Special P.P. He
stated he did not hear incident from informant Somer Uddin. He heard taking
place of “kechal” between accused Ahad Ali and victim Samiran Nessa but he
does not know the subject matter of the “kechal”.

13. PW-7 Nur Islam deposed he knows informant and Miss X, victim daughter
of informant. Incident was took place about 6 months back and police recorded
his statement. PW-7 is declared hostile by the prosecution. In cross by
prosecution he denied he made statement before the police that on 26-06-2018
Sumer Uddin of his village informed him that on 24-06-2018 taking advantage of
absence of the other family members of the house at about 5:00 PM accused
Ahed Ali entering into the tube-well site (compound) hold his 12 years old
daughter Miss X and subjected sexual assault on her and made attempt to
commit rape on her touch her body and when the girl made hue and cry accused
run away from the place of occurrence but accused videographed whole incident
in his mobile and send the same to the mobile of Majid Ali and other persons. He
had seen the incident in the mobile of Majid Ali and on being ask, Miss X
disclosed him that on 24-06-2018 at about 5:00 PM when she was cleaning
utensils in the tube-well accused Ahed Ali forcefully hold her, touch her body and
she restrain but accused did not leave her and she made hue and cry to that
accused Ahad Ali run away from the place; to save accused Ahad Ali he deposed
falsely before the court. In cross by defence he stated he did not made
statement before the police as read over to him by the Ld. Special P.P. He stated

police only took his name and address.
6|Page

14. PW-8 Mazid Ali deposed he knows informant Somer Uddin and victim
daughter of informant Miss X. Incident was took place about 6 - 7 months back
and police recorded his statement but he does not know the incident. PW-8 is
declared hostile by the prosecution. In cross by prosecution he denied he
made statement before police on 24-06-2018 at about 06:00 PM when he was
present at home, Ahed Ali of his village called him to come to road and when he
go there, accused show him one video on his mobile and after watching the
video he find Ahed Ali hold 12 years old daughter of Sumer Uddin of their village
at the tube-well site and touched her body for several hours and subjected
sexual assault on her and tried to commit sexual intercourse with her and pull
her dress and the incident was took place at about 5:00 PM on 24-06-2018 and
accused sent the video to his mobile and he showed the video to the father of
the girl. He stated accused is his friend. In cross by defence he stated he did
not made statement before the police as read over to him by the Ld. Special P.P.
He stated police only took his name and address. He further stated Miss X
studied at Madrassa by staying at hostel.

15. PW-9 Indreswar Pathak is the I.0. He deposed on 26-06-2018 he was
working as Attach Officer at Bilasipara P.S. On that day Somer Uddin lodged
written ejahar before O/C Bilasipara PS alleging commission of sexual assault on
12 years 6 months daughter of informant by accused Ahed Ali in absence of
parents and other family members of their house. On the basis of ejahar O/C
Bilasipara PS registered Bilasipara PS Case No. 731/2018 u/s 120(B)/451 I.P.C.
r/w Section 8 of the POCSO Act and endorsed him to investigate the case. After
taking of the charge of investigation he had visited the place of occurrence,
drawn sketch map of the place of occurrence, recorded statement of the
informant and victim girl at the place of occurrence, also recorded statement of 3
other witnesses at the place of occurrence, produced victim girl before the doctor
at Dhubri Civil Hospital for her medical examination. Thereafter on 04-07-18 he
again visited place of occurrence and from place of occurrence he went to bow
bazar market of the village and in the market he found accused Ahed Ali, search
him and found one Samsung mobile handset vide Sim (mobile) No. 9365322093
and seized the same in presence of witnesses. After apprehending the accused

finding material against him, he brought him to the Police station, arrested him
7|Page

and produced him before the court. He deposed during investigation, he had
seized one original school certificate of the victim girl on being produced by
Informant Somer Uddin on 08-07-2018, produced victim girl before the Court to
record her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C, collected medical report of the victim girl
from the Dhubri Civil Hospital and after completion of the investigation he had
submitted charge-sheet against the accused Ahed Ali u/s 451/354(A) I.P.C. R/W
Section 8 of the POCSO Act. In cross he stated ejahar was lodged on 26-06-
2018 before the O/C Bilasipara P.S. and O/C Bilasipara P.S. endorsed him to
investigate the case on 26-06-2018 and he went to the place of occurrence on
27-06-2018. He stated he had seized mobile handset from the possession of the
accused on the date of arrest but he did not seize the cash memo of the mobile.
He denied no such video clip is found in the mobile handset of the accused; he
did not properly investigate the case and submitted charge-sheet on being
influence by the informant.
DISCUSSION, DECISION & REASON THERE OF:-

16. Prosecution allegation leveled against accused Ahed Ali is that on 24-06-

 

18 at about 05.00 pm at village Suapata Pt III under Bilasipara PS, accused
committed criminal trespass by entering into the compound of informant did
physical contact and advanced involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures
with Miss X and made demand for sexual favour from Miss X against her will and
committed sexual assault on Miss X by touching on her chest and private parts.
17. Now, let me scrutinized the material and evidence on record to find out
whether evidence on record able to establish prosecution charges of against the
accused Ahed Ali.

18. PW-2 is the informant of this case. His evidence pointed altercation took
place in between him and accused on account of his refusal to accused Ahed Ali’s
marriage proposal for his daughter Miss X and therefore he lodged ejahar against
the accused. PW-2 while adducing evidence before the court did not alleged that
accused Ahed Ali had criminally trespassed into his house, committed sexual
assault on his daughter Miss X. Evidence of PW-2 shown he did not support his
statement made in the Ext-2 ejahar and he totally overturn the prosecution case.
His cross is that ejahar was not read over to him by the writer. Ext.2 ejahar

pointed ejahar was written by other person.
8|Page

19. PW-1 is victim girl of this case. PW-1 stated in similar line as stated by
informant. She also stated her father lodged the case against the accused Ahed
Ali as accused wanted to marry her. PW-1 while adducing her evidence before
the court did not alleged that accused Ahed Ali had committed sexual assault on
her or made demand for sexual favour from her against her will on the day of
incident. Evidence of PW-1 only pointed accused wanted to marry her but at
that time she was minor. So her parents refused to give her in marriage. Cross
of PW-1 further pointed she cannot recollect what statement she made earlier
before the Ld. Magistrate. PW-1 does not substantiate her earlier statement and
there is inconsistent statement of PW-1 is found. Thus, prosecution exhibited
document Ext-1 cannot be acted upon in absence of corroboration from the
evidence of PW-1.

20. Evidence of PW-1 and PW-2 does not pointed any single material against
the accused Ahed Ali and their evidence say good bye to the prosecution case
and their evidence bring different story that goes in favour of the accused

person.

21. PW-4 and PW-5 are seizure witness. Their evidence only pointed they put
their signature in the seizure list Ext-3 and Ext-4 respectively. PW-4 and PW-5
while adducing their evidence before the court except stating that they had put
their signature in the seizure list, does not stated anything against the accused
Ahed Ali. Vide Ext.3 IO of the case seized mobile handset Samsung and vide
Ext.4 IO of the case PW-9 seized one original School certificate. PW-4 and PW-5
in their evidence did not made statement that either of them seen the video clip
present in the seized mobile. Accused in his 313 Cr.P.C denial seizure of
Samsung mobile from him and he shown his total ignorance. Thus their evidence

does not made any improvement in the prosecution case.

22. PW-6, PW-7 and PW-8 are declared hostile by the prosecution. Evidence
of PW-7 and PW-8 is that they do not know anything about the incident. PW-6
before declaring hostile by the prosecution, stated 6-7 months back he heard
that there was some bhejal and kechal between the accused and victim girl.
Evidence of PW-6 does specifically pointed what was specifically took place in

between accused and victim girl and rather his evidence is totally ambiguous and
9|Page

does not disclosed what was the actual incident that took place. More so he did
not witness any incident and his evidence amounted to total hearsay evidence.
PW-6 did not disclose from whom he heard about the incident of bhejal and

kechal. That being so his evidence is inadmissible piece of evidence.

23. From the scrutiny of entire evidence on record, I find that Prosecution
failed to bring home a single material against the accused that accused without
illegally entered into the property of PW-2 to commit an offence or he was
remain in the property of PW-1 after entering into the property of PW-1 to do an
offence that amounted to trespass into the property of PW-1. In the instant case
PW-1, the alleged victim girl resile from her earlier statement and she made
different story before the court which makes her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C not
believable beyond all reasonable doubt. More so her and her father’s statement
being as record totally different story that goes against the prosecution and I
come to my definite judicious finding that when prosecution failed to bring home
single ingredient of section 447/354(A) IPC and section 7 of POCSO Act against
the accused Ahed Ali. Moreover, the prosecution story on which prosecution

relied on does not supported by the informant and victim girl of the case.

24. Therefore, in view of my discussion, and on scrutiny of the entire
evidence on record, I come to my definite finding that prosecution miserably
failed to bring home charge u/s 447/354(A) IPC and section 8 of POCSO Act
against the accused Ahed Ali. Accordingly accused Ahed Ali is acquitted from the
charge of section 447/354(A) IPC and section 8 of POCSO Act and is set at
liberty.

25. Bail bond of accused person shall remain stands for next six (6) months
u/s 437(A) Cr.P.C.

26. Seized mobile phone vide Ext-3 seizure list (MR No. 112/18) be disposed

off in accordance with law.
10| Page

27. Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 30" day of March, 2019
at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Dictated and Corrected by me,
(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Typed by,
Swmkhwr Brahma, Stenographer Gr. III.
11| Page

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

PW-1 Miss X (victim girl),

PW-2 Samiruddin,

PW-3 Dr. Madhumita Das (M.O),
PW-4 Sanowar Hussain,

PW-5 Montu Ali,

PW-6 Sumar Ali,

PW-7 Nur Islam,

PW-8 Mazid Ali and

PW-9 SI Indreswar Pathak (1.0).

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Statement of PW-1 recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-2 Ejahar,
Ext-3 Medical examination report,
Ext-4 Seizure list,
Ext-5 Sketch Map and
Ext-6 Charge sheet

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT EXHIBITS ~ NIL
COURT WITNESS “ NIL

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
