Page 1 of 6

 

DISTRICT- CHARAIDEO.
IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE: CHARAIDEO: SONARI
Present:- Syed Imdadur Rahman, AJS.

SPECIAL JUDGE

The 19" day of December, 2018.

SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 37 OF 2016
Under Section
4 of the Protection of Children
from Sexual offences Act, 2012.
Read With
376(2)(i) of the Indian Penal Code.

State of Assam
-Versus-
1. Sri Biren Dhan.
sanisiiihaate Accused Person.

This case was taken up for final hearing on 11.12.2018 in the presence of

Sri Basanta GogOi..........000 Advocate for prosecution side.
Sri Suresh Phukan........ccscsesessees Advocate of the accused.
F.I.R was lodged on ssesssssese 24.08.2086.
Charge framed on cessstisss: 2B, 21,2008,

' Argument Heard on sasssesetss. 22.22.2008;

t Judgment Delivered on ti:i:i11::: 19.12.2018.

Special Judge —
Charaideo, Sonan
Page 2 of 6

 

JUDGMENT

In this case the accused person is facing
trial under section 4 of the P.O.C.S.O act
2012, and alternatively Under Section
376(2)(i) I.P.C

i. The case of the prosecution is that, the minor daughter of the informant,
while was waiting for her father i.e. the informant on the road near their house, at
10:30 P.M on 19/08/16, then, the accused forcibly took her to a nearby hut and
raped her. That, the daughter of the informant did not tell anyone about the
incident, but on 21/08/16 the informant came to know about the incident and
lodged the F.I.R of this case.

a Later on, a case was registered in this regard, before the Moranhat Police
station, bearing its P.S case no 103/16. Police after investigation forwarded chare
sheet u/s 8 of the Pocso act against the accused person. Thereafter, case was
committed and charge U/S 4 POCSO act 2012 was framed by my ld. Predecessor.
Later on charge was again framed as per section 42 of the POCSO act U/S 4 of
POCSO act read with section 376(2) (i) I.P.C. The charge was read over and
explained to the accused person, to which he, pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried. Prosecution examined 4 witnesses.

2 The accused person was examined U/S 313 Cr.p.c, where he denied the
case of the prosecution. The accused person examined no witness. I have heard
arguments put forwarded by both sides.

4. Points For Determination in this case are:-

i) Whether the accused on 19/08/2016, committed penetrative
A sexual assault on the daughter of the informant Sri Indra Mura, who
Special Judge was below 18 years at that time?

Charaideo, Sonari
Page 3 of 6

 

ii) and alternatively, whether the accused on 19/08/ 16, committed

rape on the minor daughter of the informant, who at that time was 13

years old?
5. DISCUSSION DECISION AND REASONS FOR THE DECISION

Let us now, discuss evidences on record, concerning the points for
determination of this case. In this case the alleged victim was examined as P.W2;
the P.W2 in her evidence deposed that, on the date of incident at 10:30, while she
came out from her house in search of her father, then, the accused Caught hold of
her on road. That, while she raised hue and cry, accused left her. That, on the next
day she informed the matter to Jina aunty, who told the matter to his father. That,
her father lodged this case.

In the cross examination this P.W deposed that a village meeting was held
and accused was asked to pay cost of treatment of fever of her and as he did not
pay the cost, her father filed this case.

I have considered the evidence of the alleged victim of this case. The
evidence of alleged victim failed to contain anything concerning any of the points
for determination. The alleged victim never deposed anything against the accused.
The crux of her evidence is that accused caught hold of her while she was on a road
and case was lodged as the accused failed to pay the expenses of the treatment of
the fever of the victim. Now, this evidence contains nothing to attract any of the
point for determination.

6, The father of the victim was examined as P.W3, he in evidence deposed
that, accused Namina Munda is his daughter. That, after few days of the incident
his sister-in-law informed that accused caught hold of his daughter on a road while,
she went out. That, it was also informed that the accused left when hue and cry
was raised. That, on this he filed the case.

SN In cross examination this P.W deposed that, out of anger he has filed this

Speci Jucige a
Charaideo, SonarFs¢- That, he has no objection if accused is acquitted.
Page 4 of 6

 

The evidence of the father of the alleged victim yields that the case was
lodged by him only out of anger.
7. The P.W4 deposed that after 2/3 days of incident, he, from villagers came
to know that, accused committed rape with Namina Munda on road. That, in a
meeting victim told that accused had committed rape on her. That, accused denied
the allegation.

In cross examination this P.W deposed that, he has no personal knowledge
except hearing from others.

I have considered the evidence of the P.W4 and found that his evidence
has not been supported by the alleged victim or by the informant. Here the P.Ww4
deposed that accused raped the victim, but the victim never deposed that accused
raped her.

8. I have considered the evidences of the most material witnesses of this
case. The victim never adduced any evidence which may attract any of the points
for determination, neither the informant. They both failed to adduce any specific
evidence concerning any of the points for determination. I have considered the
evidence of the P.W1 i.e. doctor who examined the victim.
9. I have considered the evidences on record, which includes the evidence of
the prosecutrix and I find that, there is no iota of evidence to bring the accused
person within the ambit of either section 376(2)(i) of I.P.C or section 4 of the
POCSO act, 2012 as the alleged victim and other witness never deposed anything in
evidence against the accused, concerning any of the points for determination. Here
in this case the prosecution has failed to adduce any evidence basing on which we
can held that, prosecution has proved the case beyond all reasonable doubt.
10. This being the position of this case, in opinion of this court, prosecution
has failed to prove the case against the accused person and accordingly the
accused Sri Biren Dham is acquitted from the offences he is facing trial. He is set at

\ liberty forth with, Bail bond executed by the accused is extended as per provision

St tai JUTHGE
Charaideo, Sonar
Page 5 of 6

 

437(A) Cr.P.C. In opinion of this court there is no circumstance to invoke section
357(A) of Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 19" day of
December 2018.

bn
4 ayes —
(S.I.Rahman)
Special Judge
AcgiRararseor Sorel

Charaideo, Sonari.
Page 6 of 6

 

Prosecution Witnesses.

S|, 1---- Prosecution Witness 1 ---Dr. Duplay Patir.

S|. 2---- Prosecution Witness 2 ---Miss Namina Munda.
S|. 3---- Prosecution Witness 3 ---Sri Indra Munda.

SI. 4---- Prosecution Witness 4 ---Sri Arjun Mura.

Prosecution Exhibits.

S|. 1---- Medical Examination report.
SI. 1(1)- Signature of the Doctor.
Defence witness.

Nil.

Defence Exhibit.

Nil

aa)

(S.I.Rahman)

Special Judge
CAdiarasessan wpe

Charaideo.
