IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE tiiiitiintiniiuiniininniiin: DBHUBRI

Present :- Shri J. Borah, AJS
Special Judge,Dhubri.

SPECIAL CASE NO.90 OF 2018
U/s.376 I.P.C
R/W Sec.4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act

State of Assam
Vs
Rofiqul Bepari
... Accused Person.

Date of Framing Charge :- 11-10-2018
Dates of Recording Evidence :-03-11-2018

17-11-2018
Date of Argument :- 27-11-2018
Date of Judgment :- 27-11-2018

Advocates Appeared :
For the State of Assam :- Shri S.C. Roy

Learned Addl.P.P.

For the Defence :- Shri YA. Bepari

Learned Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. This case is U/s.376 |.P.C read with Sec.4 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, so, the name of the victim is
not mentioned here and she is hereinafter referred to as 'X'.
2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Aynal Bepari, the
informant lodged an ejahar with Golakganj Police Station on
22.1.018 informing that 'X' is a minor, aged about 15 years old.
She is a student of Class-IX. The accused Rofiqul Bepari was
tutorial teacher of the informant's daughter. The accused Rofiqul
Bepari allured 'X' to marry. The said accused Rofiqul Bepari took 'X'
to his house and committed rape onher. On5.1.018 at about
Contd.Page-2.
3-00 P.M, the accused Rofiqul Bepari took 'X' to his house. At such,
the other accused Sekendar Bepari, Azizur Bepari, Anisur Bepari,
Saifur Bepari and Hafizur Bepari rebuked 'X' using obscene words
and ousted her from their house.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against
the said accused persons.
3. The Golakganj Police Station received the ejahar and
registered vide Golakganj Police Station Case No.62/018 U/s.376
|.P.C. R/W Sec.4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
hereinafter referred to 'POCSO'. The case was investigated and
having found prima facie U/s.376 I.P.C R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act
against the accused Rofiqul Bepari laid the chargesheet before the
court for trial.
4. The accused Rofiqul Bepari appeared in the court of Special
Judge, Dhubri. The Hon'ble Special Judge transferred the case to
this court for trial.
5. The accused Rofiqul Bepari, hereinafter called the accused
person, appeared in this case. He was furnished copy. Charge was
framed U/s.376 I.P.C and also U/s.4 of POCSO Act against the
accused. The charge was read over and explained to the accused
to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
6. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against
the accused, examined 5 (five) witnesses, namely --

1. X/the victim PW-1

2. Aynal Bepari PW-2

3. Nuruddin Ahmed PW-3

4. Diljan Bibi PW-4
5. Sahinur Bibi PW-5
7. Since there found no incriminating evidence adduced by the

prosecution witnesses against the accused, so he is not examined
U/s.313 Cr.P.C.

Contd.Page-3.
3
8. Heard argument for both sides.
9. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused on 5.1.018 at about 3-00 in the
afternoon at village Biskhowa Part-Il under Golakganj Police Station
committed rape on the minor daughter of informant 'X' and
thereby committed offence U/s.376 I.P.C.

(ii) Whether the accused on 5.1.018 at about 3-00 in the
afternoon at village Biskhowa Part-Il under Golakganj Police Station
committed penetrative sexual assault on the minor daughter of
informant 'X' and thereby committed offence U/s.4 of POCSO
Act,2012.

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :

10. In this prosecution case, PW-1 'X' is the victim, PW-2 Aynal
Bepari is the informant, PW-3 Nuruddin Ahmed and PW-5 Sahinur
Bibi are independent witnesses, PW-4 Diljan Bibi is the mother of
the victim 'X'.

11. Since PW-1 'X' is the alleged victim and PW-2 Aynal Bepari is
the informant, so both PW-1 and PW-2 are vital witnesses. Let us
see the evidence of this two witnesses at first.

PW-1 'X' has stated in her evidence that the accused was
her tutorial teacher. She went to the house of the accused for
tuition. On the day of occurrence, she went to the house of the
accused. The other students were also with her. After end of class,
she had chat with the wife of the accused. The brothers of the
accused asked her to go home and they told her harsh words. She
went home and told her parents all about the occurrence. Her
father, then, lodged the ejahar against the accused. She gave her
statement before the Magistrate, Ext-1 is the said statement and
Ext-1(1)(2)(3) are her signatures. She gave her statement Ext-1 as
per instruction of village headman. PW-1 denied to commit sexual
intercourse on her by the accused nor he did any evil on her.

In her cross, PW-1 has sternly denied to commit sexual
intercourse on her by the accused.
Contd.Page-4.
4
12. PW-2 Aynal Bepari has stated in his evidence that 'X' is his
daughter. The accused was tutorial teacher of his daughter. His
daughter went to the house of the accused for tuition. On the day
of occurrence, 'X' went to the house of the accused. After end of
the class, 'X' had talked with the wife of the accused. At such, the
brothers of the accused bullied her and asked to go home. PW-2
has also stated that his daughter told him about the occurrence
and accordingly he lodged the case against the accused. He gave
thumb impression on the ejahar. PW-2 has also stated that the
accused did not commit sexual intercourse on his daughter.

In his cross, PW-2 has stated that the family of the accused
is his relative. He is an illiterate. He does not know the content of
the ejahar.

13. Thus, minute scrutiny of evidence of PW-1 'X' and PW-2
Aynal Bepari shows that that both of them have adduced evidence
not incriminating the accused. According to PW-1, the brothers of
the accused persons bullied her when she was chatting with the
wife of the accused and when she told her parent, he lodged the
ejahar against the accused. PW-1 denied to commit rape on her by
the accused. Same is the evidence of PW-2. PW-2 has made clear
that he lodged the ejahar on the basis of the information given by
his daughter. PW-2 has also denied to commit rape on his daughter
by the accused. So there found no inculpatory evidence adduced
by PW-1 and PW-2.
14. PW-3 Nuruddin Ahmed, PW-4 Diljan Bibi and PW-5 Sahinur
Bibi have adduced their evidence in the same tune that when the
brother of the accused person bullied her asking to go home, she
told her parents all about the occurrence and on the said
information, PW-2 Aynal Bepari lodged the ejahar against the
accused. So, PW-3,4 and PW-5 have adduced evidence not
incriminating the accused.
1s. Being the said position of evidence of prosecution
witnesses, it is clear that the prosecution evidence is not sufficient
Contd.Page-5.
5

and satisfactory to prove that there was penetrative sexual
assault on PW-1 'X' by the accused or the accused committed rape
on PW-1 'X'. The prosecution case is dearth of merit.
16. The prosecution has failed to prove it's case U/s.376 I.P.C
and Sec.4 of POCSO Act against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt.
17. Held, the accused is not guilty U/s.376 IPC and Sec.4 of
POCSO Act.

Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty.
The bail bond stands cancelled and the bailor is discharged from
all liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this 27th day
of November, 2018.

Transcribed & Typed by Special Judge
Dhubri
Stenographer
Court of the Special Judge
Dhubri

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses
PW-1 X/the victim
PW-2 Aynal Bepari
PW-3 Nuruddin Ahmed
PW-4  Diljan Bibi
PW-5 Sahinur Bibi

Defence Witness :- NIL

Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext-1 Statement of victim U/s.164 Cr.P.C

Special Judge
Dhubri
