IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR.
Special POCSO 13/2018

(U/S. 366/354 IPC and Section 8 of POCSO Act)
Present:-Shri D. Ullah, AJS.,

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM ......ccccccccceseeeccsseeeeesessseeeeesssseeeeeeesseeeeeessenneeeea Complainant.
-Versus-

Sab Uddin Sheikh @ Sabuddin...............cccccccecessseceesssseeeeessseesa esses Accused

Charge framed ON! ........ceescccessseceeeseeeessneeeeesseeeeecsneeessntaaaeessnsaeees 14.06.2018

P.WS. GXAMINE ON in... ececeecceseseeeeeeeeeeeenes 21.08.18; 11.12.18

Argument heard ON ..........:::cccssscecessseceessneeeesneeeessneeessneeesesseeeessenees 11.12.18

Judgment pronounced and delivered ON :-.......ccceccsseeseeeseeeeeeeees 12.12.18

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Mr. R.M. Das, Ld. P.P.

For the Accused : Mr. M. K. Barlaskar , Id. Advocate.
JUDGMENT

1. The brief fact of the case is that on 08.04.2018, father of the

victim lodged an_ FIR to Rangirkhari TOP, stating that on 07.04.2018, the
accused Sab Uddin Sheikh @ Sabuddin forcefully pulled Monwara Begum, the
minor daughter of the informant, into his auto while she was returning from
her school and took her to a deserted place where the accused tried to

disrobe her and touched different parts of her body and also tried to rape the
Page 2 of 6
Spl POCSO 13 of 2018
victim. On her raising alarm, the neighbouring people assembled and caught

the accused.

2. On receipt of the FIR, a GD Entry was made at Ranghirkhari
TOP and the FIR was forwarded to OC Silchar P.S. where a case was
registered vide Silchar P.S. Case No. 1074/2018, U/S 354/366 IPC, R/W
Section 4 of POCSO Act. Police started investigation and during the course of
investigation, accused was forwarded to judicial custody, the sketch map of
the PO was drawn up. The police sent the victim to SMCH for undergoing
medical examination. Subsequently, the victim was brought to the Court for
recording her statement U/S 164 of Cr.P.C. The investigating officer recorded
statement of the witnesses and after completion of investigation charge-sheet
was submitted against accused Sab Uddin Sheikh @ Sabuddin U/S 354/366
IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. In due course, upon appearance of the accused and after
hearing both sides formal charge U/S 366/354 of IPC, R/W Section 8 of
POCSO Act was framed against accused Sab Uddin Sheikh @ Sabuddin. The
charges having been read over and explained, the accused pleaded not guilty

and claimed to be tried.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

4. In support of the case, the prosecution examined as many as
two witnesses. The defence side examined none. As no evidence appeared in

evidence, statement of the accused U/S 313 of Cr.P.C is dispensed with.

5. Now, in the present case the point to be decided is:

(i) Whether the accused on 07.04.18 after school hours at
village Saidpur Part-II kidnapped victim Monowara Begum, daughter of the
informant with the intent that she might be compelled or knowing that it to
be likely that she would be compelled to marry against her will or that she

might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby committed an
Page 3 of 6
Spl POCSO 13 of 2018
offence punishable U/S 366 of the IPC and within the cognizance of this

Court.

(ii) Whether the accused on the same date after kidnapping the
victim outraged her modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable
U/S 354 of the IPC and within the cognizance of this Court.

(iii) Whether the accused on the same date after kidnapping the
victim with sexual intent asked the victim to put off her clothes and
committed sexual assault to her and thereby committed an offence
punishable U/S 8 of POCSO Act and within the cognizance of this Court.

DECISION, DISCUSSION AND REASONS THEREOF:

6. Let me go through the evidence on record in order to decide as
to whether prosecution is able to prove the charges against the accused

beyond all reasonable doubt.

7. P.W. 1 Safique Uddin, the informant, has stated that he
knew the accused Sahab Uddin About 4/5 months ago the occurrence took
place. At the time of occurrence his daughter Monowara was a student of
class IX in Dholai BNP High School. On the date of occurrence while
Monowara was coming back from the school at 2 P.M. by an autorickshaw
of the accused, the accused then took Monowara through bypass road.
Then police informed him to go to Ranghirkari TOP. Then he went to
Rangirkhari TOP and found his daughter Monowara Begum and the
accused therein in the outpost. Being asked Monowara told him that the
people of the Saidpur bypass locality caught the accused and handed him
over to police. At the time of occurrence, the age of Monowara Begum was

14 years. Police produced Monowara in the Silchar Court wherein
Page 4 of 6
Spl POCSO 13 of 2018
Magistrate recorded her statement and police sent Monowara to SMCH for

her medical examination and she was medically examined therein.

This PW 1 during cross examination has stated that the ejahar was
written by one scribe as per instruction of police. Police asked him to put
his signature in the ejahar and he put his signature accordingly. The FIR
was not read over to him. There was a quarrel between the accused Sab
Uddin and another auto driver at the time of retruning but he did not know
the said auto driver. His daughter reported him that the auto driver and his
men produced the present accused and his daughter to the police station.

His nephew .i.e. the present accused did not do any harm to his daughter.

8. PW 2 Monowara Begum, the victim, has stated that the accused
is her cousin brother. The occurrence took place about four months ago
and at that time, she was a student of Class IX in BNP School, Chowrangi,
Dholai. On the day of occurrence, at the time of returning from school, she
saw the accused coming in an auto and as the accused is her cousin
brother so she came in his auto as passenger. Near the bypass, some
people had assaulted the accused and also detained his auto. They also
informed police. Police came and took her and the accused along with the
auto to the police station. Police had informed her father who had lodged
an FIR. She was also taken to SMCH, Silchar wherein, the doctor medically
examined her. She was also taken to the Court wherein her statement U/S
164 Cr.P.C. was recorded. After that the Court gave her to the zimma of
her father. During cross examination, the victim has stated that she usually
used to go in the auto-rickshaw of the accused as he is her cousin brother.
On the date of occurrence, some people had made hue and cry and
assaulted the accused. The accused has not committed any illegalities

upon her. She has no grievances against the accused.
Page 5 of 6

Spl POCSO 13 of 2018

9. From the above evidence on record, it is found that the victim,
the PW 2 and her father, the informant .i.e. the PW 1, have not supported
the prosecution story and also not implicated the accused person in respect

of the charged offence.

10. So from the above discussions of the evidence on record it is
found that the prosecution has failed to prove the offences U/S 366/354 IPC
R/W_ Section 8 of POCSO Act against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt. Therefore, the accused Sab Uddin Sheikh @ Sab Uddin stands
acquitted of the charge and he is set at liberty forthwith.

11. Judgment is delivered in the open Court on this 12" Day of
December 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me

( D. Ullah)
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar

Transcribed by Dipankar Paul,
Stenographer Gr. III
Page 6 of 6
Spl POCSO 13 of 2018

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR
Special POCSO . 13 of 2018.

 

ANNEXURE
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 - Safique Uddin
PW. 2 = Monowara Begum

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: -_ NIL

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Exhibit 1 — Ejahar

Exhibit 2 - Statement of the victim.
(D) DEFENCE EXHIBITS:- NIL

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - NIL.

(Shri D. Ullah ),
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
