IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON ::: ASSAM.

Special (POCSO) Case No.-19/2018
U/S- 366 IPC, r/w Section-4 of the POCSO Act.

State
- Versus -

Sri Sanjit Mandal
: Accused person.

Present :
Md. A. Rahman, AJS
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Sri M.J. Neog, Ld. Special Prosecutor.

For the accused person : Md. H.U. Anmed, Ld. Advocate.

Charge framed on : 01/11/2018.

Evidence recorded on : 08/02/2019, 16/05/2019,
05/08/2019.

Date of recording 313 Cr.P.C. statement : 05/08/2019.

Date of Argument : 05/08/2019.

Date of Judgment : 05/08/2019.

Contd...
UDGMENT

1. One Monilal Barman (actual name withheld) lodged Ext.-1
FIR on 09/03/2016 with the I/C of Sibasthan P.P. under Samaguri Police
Station to the effect that on 07/03/2016 accused Sanjit Mandal
kidnapped his daughter “Miss. X” (name withheld) to his broiler farm at
Village- Khaloiati and committed rape on her. After coming to know
about the occurrence, the neighbours of the accused handed over the
victim at Sibasthan Police Patrol Post.

2. Having received the Ext.-1 FIR, the I/C of Sibasthan P.P. made
GDE No.-152, dated-09/03/2016 and forwarded to the O/C of Samaguri
Police Station for registering a case. Accordingly, Samaguri PS. Case
No.-59/2016 u/s-376 IPC was registered. S.l. Dharmendra Kumar
Baishya, the I/C of the said P.P. had taken up the investigation of the
case.

3. During the course of investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, drew Sketch Map and recorded the statements of the
witnesses including the victim girl. She was also medically examined
through the doctor at Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital. Besides, her
statement u/s-164 Cr.P.C. was also recorded. On completion of
investigation, police submitted Charge Sheet against accused Sanjit
Mandal u/s-342 IPC, r/w Section-4 and 18 of the POCSO Act.

4. Learned JMFC, Kaliabor committed the case to the court of
the Hon'ble Sessions Judge, Nagaon / Hon'ble Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
3

After receiving of the case record, the instant Special (POCSO) case
was registered. Subsequently, the case record was transferred to this
court for disposal. Be it mentioned here that the accused was granted
anticipatory bail by the Hon'ble High Court and accordingly he was
released on bail.

5. After considering the materials on record, charges u/s-366
IPC, r/w Section-4 of the POCSO Act were framed, read over and
explained to the accused person. He pleaded not guilty and claimed to
be tried.

6. Prosecution during the trial examined three witnesses
including the victim girl and her father. Considering the evidence of the
victim and her father, further prosecution evidence was closed. The
accused was examined u/s-313 Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total
denial of the prosecution allegation.

7. | have heard Mr. M.J. Neog, learned Special Prosecutor as well
as Mr. H.U. Ahmed, learned Counsel for the defence. | have also
thoroughly and meticulously gone through the evidence and materials

on record.

8. Now the points for determination are as follows :-
(a) Whether on the intervening night of 07/03/2016 and

08/03/2016 at Village- Borbalitoop, the accused having induced the
victim “Miss. X” with a plea of marriage kidnapped her to his broiler
farm at Village- Khaloiati under Uluoni Police Station with an intention
or knowing that she may be seduced or forced to illicit intercourse and
thereby committed an offence punishable u/s-366 IPC ?

Contd...
(b) Whether on the same date, time and place, the accused
having kidnapped “Miss. X”, minor daughter of the complainant,
committed penetrative sexual assault upon her and thereby committed
an offence punishable u/s-4 of the POCSO Act ?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF

 

9. Considering the allegations in the FIR and that both the
offences were committed in the same transaction, both aforesaid two
points are being discussed together. Before entering upon the analysis
and appreciation of evidence, it is necessary to take a glimpse of the

relevant statements of the witnesses.

10. PW-1 is the complainant as well as the father of the victim
girl. PW-2 (Miss. X) is the victim of this case. PW-3 Sanjit Mandal is a
neighbour of PW-1. PW-1 has deposed that the occurrence took place
about 3(three) years back on the night of Sivaratri. His daughter (PW-2)
eloped with the accused to his broiler farm as they were in love affairs.
Although the accused took her to his house, but his family members
did not accept her. Therefore, she was handed over at Sibasthan Patrol
Post. She has clearly stated that at the relevant time of occurrence, his
daughter (PW-2) was 18 years old. He has confirmed that Ext.-1 is the
Ejahar lodged by him and Ext.-1(1) is his signature. His daughter was
recovered after two days of the occurrence. Police seized the birth
certificate of his daughter from his wife vide Ext.-2 Seizure-list.
Ext.-2(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination, PW-1 has reiterated that because of

long love affairs his daughter voluntarily went to the broiler farm of the
accused during Sivaratri night. The case was lodged as the mother and

Contd...
5

the sister of the accused opposed to the marriage of his daughter with
the accused.

11. PW-2 “Miss. X” is the victim of this case. Her evidence was
recorded on 16/05/2019. On the said date, she stated her age to be 20
years. She has testified that about 3(three) years back on Sivaratri
night she had gone to the broiler farm of the accused after getting a
telephonic call from him. She has love affairs with the accused. On the
relevant night both of them spent the night at the broiler farm. On the
next morning, accused Sanjit Mandal fled away when his mother and
sister came to the broiler farm. She has further testified that she was
continuously trying to get married with the accused. She has confirmed
that Ext.-3 is her statement before the Magistrate. Ext.-3(1) to Ext.-3(5)

are her signatures.

During cross-examination, she has clearly stated that she
voluntarily went to the broiler farm of the accused. Her father lodged
the case against the accused out of anger. She has clearly stated that
she has no any grievance against accused Sanjit Mandal. Still she loves
him.

12. PW-3 has deposed that about three years back, accused and
PW-2 eloped away. The family members of accused handed over PW-2
at Sibasthan Police Patrol Post. He accompanied PW-1 to bring her from
the said Patrol Post.

In his cross-examination, he has stated that he himself did

not see the actual occurrence. He also cannot say if there was any love
affairs between the accused and PW-2.

Contd...
13. Now, the most crucial point for testimony is what was the
age of the victim girl (PW-2) on 07/03/2016 being the date of alleged
occurrence. PW-1 has mentioned the age of PW-2 to be 16(sixteen)
years in Ext.-1. But while deposing before the court, PW-1 stated that
the age of PW-2 was 18 years. PW-2 in her Ext.-3 statement stated her
age to be 14 years on 10/03/2016 when her statement was recorded.
On 16/05/2019 being the date of recording her statement, PW-2 stated
her age to be 20 years. Thus, from the evidence of PW-2, it appears
that she was around 17 years old on the relevant date of occurrence.
The prosecution did not submit the age-proof certificate of PW-2 to
ascertain her age. On the other hand, medical examination report
available in the case record reveals that her radiological age was
above 20 years. The father knows better the age of his own daughter.
Therefore, the evidence of PW-1 that PW-2 was 18 years at the relevant
time of occurrence is acceptable which is also consistent with her
radiological age. Thus, the prosecution has failed to establish that PW-2
was below 18 years on the relevant day of the alleged occurrence.

14. From the above discussion, it appears that PW-2 having
attained the age of 18 years was a major girl at the relevant time of
occurrence. It is proved from her evidence that she voluntarily went to
the broiler farm of the accused on the relevant night of occurrence.
Therefore, it appears that no offence u/s-366 IPC has been made out.

15. Now coming to the offence u/s-4 of the POCSO Act is
concerned, it has been already held that PW-2 was a major girl at the
relevant time of the alleged occurrence. She has not stated before the
court at the time of recording the evidence that the accused
committed sexual intercourse with her. It is well settled that statement
u/s-164 Cr.P.C. is not a substantive piece of evidence and it may be

Contd...
7

used for corroboration or contradiction. When PW-2 has not stated
about making any physical relation with her by the accused on the
relevant night of occurrence, Ext.-3 cannot prove the _ physical
intercourse with her by the accused. Even if Ext.-3 is taken to be true,
then also the physical intercourse in between PW-2 and the accused
happened with her will and consent.

16. In the light of the above discussion of evidence and
observation, it is found that the prosecution has failed to prove the
charges u/s-366 IPC, r/w Section-4 of the POCSO Act beyond
reasonable doubt. So, the accused stands acquitted on benefit of
doubt.

17. The bail bond and sureties shall remain in force for another
6(six) months in the spirit of section 437(A) Cr.P.C.

18. The Sessions case is disposed of accordingly.

Judgment is pronounced'§ and
delivered in the open Court under the seal
of this Court and on my signature on this
5 day of August, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me.
Special Judge, Nagaon.
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
APPENDIX :-
Oral evidence :-
PW-1 Sri Monilal Barman (actual name withheld).
PW-2 “Miss X” (name withheld).

PW-3 Sri Sanjit Mandal.

Documentary evidence :-

Ext.-1 FIR (Ejahar).

Ext.-2 Seizure-list.

Ext.-3 Statement of the victim recorded by Magistrate u/s-164
GARG.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
