Page 1

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR

SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 64 of 2018

Under section 448 of IPC and Section 18 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam

—Vs—
Sri Nayan Boro wae Accused Person

Present: Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State £\ MrM.C. Baruah,

Special Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Mr. P.Singh Sethi, Legal Aid counsel.
Date of*Argument : 29-05-2019 & 11-06-2019.
Datevof Judgment : 14-06-2019.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case as has been unfurled in the FIR, is that

on 07-07-2018 at around 4 p.m. in absence of the family members of
the informant, the accused Nayan Boro attempted to commit rape on his
daughter “X” and also threatened to kill the whole family if she disclosed

the matter to someone else.

 
Page 2

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.1) on 08-07-2018 from the
informant, the victim’s father, the Officer-in-charge of Rangapara PS
registered the case being Rangapara P.S. Case No. 119/18 u/s
448/354(A)/506 of IPC read with section 12 of POCSO Act and laid
investigation of the case. During investigation, the Investigating Officer
(PW 7) recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for
medical examination, got her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on
completion of investigation having found materials, laid chargesheet
against the accused Nayan Boro u/s 448/354(A)/506 of IPC_read with
section 12 of POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of the accused person before this. Court, after
furnishing the necessary copies as required /s‘20/ of Cr.P.C. and
having heard both parties, my learned predecessor framed charge u/s
448 of IPC read with section 18 of POCSO, Act against the accused
Nayan Boro and particulars of the charge on being read over and
explained to the accused person he.pleaded not guilty and claimed for

trial.

4. To substantiate, the«case, prosecution examined as many as
seven witnesses.#On closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of
the accused was‘recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the accused denied
all the incriminating evidence that emerged against him and taking the
plea of\innecence stated that though he had gone to the house of the
informant but after some time he left his house along with the son of
informant and did nothing to the victim girl as alleged.

5, I have heard the argument of the learned counsel of both sides

and also have gone through the materials on record.
6. The points for decision in this case is that -

(1) Whether the accused Nayan Boro on 07-07-2018 at about 4
p.m, at Hatidubigaon Phuluguri under Rangapara police
station committed house trespass by entering into the house of the

informant with intent to commit an offence and thereby committed
an offence punishable u/s 448 of IPC?

 
Page 3

(ii) Whether the accused on the same date, time and place, attempted
to commit any offence punishable under the POCSO Act or to cause
such an offence to be committed, and in such attempt, does any Act
towards the commission of the offence, on Miss "X", aged about 12
years and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 18 of POCSO
Act.

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.
7. Mr. M. Baruah, the learned Special Public Prosecutor
strenuously argued that the materials on record undoubtedly project a
case of house trespass and sexual assault on the victim girl child. He
further submitted that the evidence of the victim child.is ‘enough to

convict the accused person.

8. Controverting the said argument, Mr. PiSinghsSethi, the learned
legal Aid Counsel appearing for the accused, submitted that with the
discrepancies in the evidence of the «witnesses, prosecution failed to
establish the charge against the accused\beyond all reasonable doubt

and as such the accused is entitled to acquittal.

9. In view of the rival ‘submissions advanced by the learned
counsel appearing for the\parties, let me travel through the evidence

adduced by the prosecution side.

10. PWeaI\is the informant as well as the father of the victim. He
deposed*that.on the day of incident, at around 5 p.m. when he returned
homesfrom his work, his victim daughter, aged about 12 years, reported
him, that while she along with her younger sister were alone at home,
theeaccused Nayan Boro entering into his house embraced her breast.
Then on raising alarm, his elder son came out from the bath room but in
the mean time, the accused fled away. He also stated that the accused
threatened his daughter to kill him (PW1) if she discloses the matter to
him. Hearing the incident, on the next day, he lodged the FIR ((Ext. 1)
and thereafter he reported the incident to the villagers and relatives. He
proved the statement of the victim made u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as Ext. 2
wherein Ext. 2(1) to 2(3) are his signatures.

 
Page 4

During cross, he stated that his house is situated at a distance
of one km away from the house of the accused. He also stated that
being a near relative, the accused used to visit his house frequently.
According to him, on the day of incident, his elder son, two daughters
including the victim were at home and on that day the accused
accompanied with his son came to his house. He stated that he cannot
say if on the day accused came to his house to call his son for carrying

woods from his house.

11. PW 2, the grand father of the victim, deposed that on 07-07-
2018 at around 3/ 4 p.m. he heard from his victim granddaughter that
while she along with her sister were taking rest at homep,the accused
asked the victim to open the door and after opening the door, the
accused entering into the house embraced\herxbreast from back side
and also tried to commit her rape. The aceuséd also threatened the
victim not to disclose the incident to anybody, otherwise he would kill
her family members. Hearing htla,“hisegrand son i.e. the elder brother
of the victim, arrived there. During, cross, he stated that he heard about

the incident on the very day of\incident at about 5/6 p.m.

12. PW 3 Fifoj, Doimary deposed that on the next day of incident
when he had gonexto’ the house of the informant, he heard that the
accusedventeringsinto the house of the informant, embraced the victim
girl and, attempted to commit misdeed on her while she was alone with

heryounger sister.

13: PW 4, the brother of the informant, deposed that on the day of
incident at around 3/ 4 p.m. after coming from school while the victim
was taking rest with her 6/7 years old younger sister, the accused
entering into their house attempted to commit misdeed to the victim on
which the victim raised alarm. Hearing hulla her elder brother who was
taking bath he reached there. On the very day of incident, the victim
reported him over phone about the incident and on the next day he met

her physically and heard the incident.

 
Page 5

During cross, he stated that his house is about 1 km away from
the house of the informant. Near the house of the informant there are
residents of Adibashi and Nepali people. He admitted that he did not
inform the Goanburah about the incident. He also did not inform police

on the day of incident.

14, PW 5 Dr. Tutumoni Handique, the Medical Officer, deposed that
on 09-07-2018 she examined the victim in connection with Rangapara
PS Case No. 119/18 u/s 448/354 A/506 of the IPC read with section 12
of POCSO Act, who gave the history of sexual assault on Q7+07-2018.
On examination, found hymen absent but found no signs and,symptoms
suggesting of recent sexual intercourse and no injury on her body or
private parts. As per Radiological report the Medical, Officer opined that
the victim is below 18 years of age. She proved the medical report as
Ext.3, Vaginal smear report as Ext.4, ,ACG report as Ext. 5, USG report

with film as Ext. 6, requisition slip as Ext. Aand advice slip as Ext. 8.

15. PW 6 is the victim¢herself. “She deposed that on the day of
incident at about 2 p.m.‘ while’she was sleeping with her 6 years old
younger sister at home;saccused came to their house whom she called
as uncle (Khura)vand asked her to open the door. Accordingly, she did
so. On openingNthe door, the accused entered into her house and
attempted“to) touch her chest. Then on raising alarm he went out.
Regarding the incident her father lodged the FIR. She proved her

statement ‘before the Magistrate as Ext. 2.

During cross she stated that the accused had the friendship
with her elder brother and at the time of incident her elder brother was
taking bath in the bath room which is situated near her bed room. On
the very day, she reported the incident to her elder brother. She further
stated that after taking bath her brother along with the accused went

out and came back in the evening time.

16. PW 7, SI Puran Ch. Sarmah, the Investigating Officer, deposed

that during investigation he recorded the statement of the witnesses

 
Page 6

including the victim, got recorded the statement of the victim u/s 164
Cr.P.C., prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence vide Ext. 9,
arrested the accused and submitted the chargesheet against the
accused Nayan Boro u/s 448/354(A)/ 506 of the IPC read with section
12 of POCSO Act vide Ext. 10.

During cross, he admitted that he did not record the statement
of any independent witness. He did not record the statement of Girin
Moholia and Gaonbura Sane. He also had not seized any birth certificate
of the victim girl to ascertain her age. He also did not seize‘any wearing

apparel of the victim girl.

17. Now, let it be seen whether the victimNisa child or not as
defined in section 2(d) of POCSO Act, 2012NAs. per the definition, the

child means any person below the age of 18.years)

Here in this case, the evidence of PW 1 the father of the victim
reveals that the victim was 12’Yyears ‘at the relevant time. According to
PW 2, the grandfather, the:naturahwitness, at that time she was 11 years
old. The victim in her_deposition recorded on 28-11-2018 mentioned her
age as 12 years and she was reading in class VII. So as per evidence of
the material witnesses PW 1, PW 2 and PW 6 she was 11/12 years old at
the time of*incident. The medical report, Ext. 3 also shows that the age of
the victim is.below 18 years at the relevant time. In this case, while
considering the age, what is of paramount importance is the fact that the
victimmwas a student of class VII at the time of alleged occurrence has
notebeen disputed at the trial. Though the I.0. had not seized any school
certificate to ascertain her age but usually a child of class VII is of 11- 13
years. Moreover, in the case in hand, the age of the victim is not disputed
by the defence. From the above oral evidence coupled with the medical
evidence, I unhesitatingly hold that the victim is a child being under the

age of 18 years.

18. Bearing in mind the above finding as regard the age of the

victim, let me, now turn the question of alleged house trespass and

 
Page 7

attempt to commit an offence of sexual assault as alleged. While
considering this aspect of the matter, it is worth noticing that it is the
victim (PW 6) around whose evidence revolves the entire case of the
prosecution. Her evidence is therefore most material. Her evidence is that
on the day of incident, at around 2 p.m., while she was sleeping at home
with her 6 years old younger sister, the accused whom she called as
uncle (khura) asked her to open the door and accordingly when she
opened the door, he entered into the house and attempted to touch her
chest. Then on raising alarm, he went out. During cross-examination the
victim stated that at the relevant time the elder brother ofthe vietim was
taking bath in the bath room and after bath her elder-brother along with
the accused went out. Here the learned defencexcounsel vehemently
argued that when the accused along with the, victim’s brother went out
together, the commission of alleged offence is.not believable one. But in
my considered opinion there is every\possibility that when her elder
brother was taking bath, accused, came, asked her to open the door,
attempted to touch her chest ande=after bath her brother along with the
accused went out. In statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C., Ext. 2 also the victim
made the same version.thatewhen her elder brother was taking bath
accused Nayan Boro asked her to open the door and accordingly when
she opened «theXdoor,, he embraced her from back side. In statement
under section 164°Cr.P.C. she also stated that as the accused threatened
her not toXdisclose the matter to others, hence she did not inform the
matterto “her elder brother immediately and at night when her father
returned, she reported the incident. Though there are some omissions in
the evidence of the victim from the statement made u/s 164 Cr.P.C. but
the evidence of the victim lead assurance to the fact that the accused
asked her to open the door and accordingly on opening the door, he
entered into her house and attempted to touch her chest. Though during
cross of the informant, defence suggested that on the day the accused
came to his house to call his son for carrying wood and remained there
for two hours and at that time Girin Moholia was also present there but

he examined none to prove that Girin Mahalia was also present during the

 
Page 8

time he was in the informant’s house. During cross-examination defence
could elicit nothing tangible to discredit her version on this material point.
Probative value of her evidence remains unshaken throughout her cross.
The settled law is also that for some minor discrepancy/omission, the
value of the evidence of a victim of sexual offence which is otherwise
remained unassailed and unshaken cannot be rendered and/or discarded.
Though father (PW 1), grandfather (PW 2) and PW 3 categorically stated
that the accused entering into the house of the victim, embraced her
breast but the evidence of the victim shows that the accused “attempted
to touch her chest. PW 4, victim’s uncle also categorically.statedsthat the
accused coming to the house of the victim attempted*to\commit misdeed

to her.

19. In the case in hand, the cogent, evidenceyof the victim is that the
accused entering into the house of the’ victim, attempted to touch her chest.
Though the learned defence counsel urged that with the discrepancies in the
evidence of the PWs, the prosecution case lacks the worthy of credence but a
close and dispassionate scrutiny of. the evidence of the victim shows that the
crucial aspect of her evidence ‘as mentioned above regarding entering into her
house and attemptingxto ‘touch her chest remains unchallenged. That apart,
the defence has failed to elicit anything from her cross-examination to show
that the vietim. deposed falsely. Nothing emerges for falsely implicating the
accused ‘in the case where the informant has no any sort of hostile relation
with _theXaccused. The FIR was also lodged on the next day of the incident.
Though the learned defence counsel argued regarding delay in filing the FIR,
butein a case of sexual assault or sexual harassment, this delay is not fatal to
the prosecution case. I also find nothing which leads the victim to be tutored
or embellished the version on material point. Her evidence appears to be quite
believable. The evidence of the victim with the yardstick of probabilities and
its intrinsic value I found no ground to disbelieve her. Though there are some
minor contradictions and omissions as discussed above, I find no sufficient
ground to disbelieve her version. It is well settled that difference in some

minor detail, which does not otherwise affect the core of the prosecution case,

 
Page 9

even if present, that itself would not prompt the court to reject the evidence

on account of minor variation and discrepancies.

20. The act of the accused at this juncture after the above discussions, it
is safely arrived that the prosecution has proved beyond all reasonable doubt
that the accused asking to open the door entered into the house of the victim
and attempted to touch her chest. Since the accused entered into the house
of the informant and then committed the offence, the offence under section
448 of IPC is well established against the accused. Since the prosecution also
established beyond doubt that the accused attempted to touch her chest, I
also find him guilty of the offence punishable u/s 18 sof. POCSO Act.
Accordingly, accused Nayan Boro is convicted u/s 448 of the IPC and section
18 of POCSO Act.

21. I have heard the accused Nayan Boro on the point of sentence. His
statement is recorded where he stated that he is a daily wage earner and is to
look after his pregnant wife and*old. parents out of his meagre income and
prayed for leniency. In the facts.and circumstances of the case and the
nature of the offence committed.by the accused, in my opinion, he could not

be given the benefit of probation.

22. I gave mMysxanxious consideration on the aspect of quantum of
sentence. gin the case according to the victim the accused entering into her
house attempted to touch her chest but she did not clearly state to what
extent.and in what manner he attempted. In the above, it cannot be said that
he‘attempted to commit the offence of sexual assault. Considering all aspects
andealso considering the young age of 22 years of the convict, I sentence the
convict Nayan Boro to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for 3 (three) months
for the offence punishable u/s 448 of IPC and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/-
(Rupees five thousand only) in default Rigorous Imprisonment for 6 (six
months) for the offence punishable u/s 18 of POCSO Act.

Accused is in hajot since 08-07-2018 till 15-10-2018.

 
Page 10

The period of detention already undergone by the accused shall be
set off against the terms of imprisonment as per provision of section 428 of

Cr.P.C. The fine amount on realization be paid to the victim.

23. Let a free copy of the Judgment be furnished to the convict. Also

sent a copy of the Judgment to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

24. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 14" day of June,
2019.
(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Prosecution witnesses.

i oy hn Bh

Exhibits.
Ext. 1

Ext. 2
Ext. 3 to 8

Ext. 9
Ext. 10

PW 1
PW 2
PW 3
PW 4
PW 5
PW 6
PW 7

Page 11

APPENDIX

: Informant/father of the victim
: Grand father of the victim

: Firoj Doimary

: Uncle of the victim

: Dr. Tutumoni Handique, M.O.
: victim girl

: SI Puran Ch. Sharma

: FIR

: 164 CR.P.C. ‘statement of the victim.
: Medicalereport*and other reports.

: Sketch map

: “Chargesheet.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
