Page 1 of 8

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 52/15

Informant: XXXX

Accused: Md. Mafizur Rahman @ Sukul
S/o- Late Eusuf Ali,
R/o- Chaolkhowa Near Rly. Station,
PS- Dibrugarh,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. BL Kezriwal, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 8

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 52/15
G.R. Case No. 1823/15

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Md. Mafizur Rahman @ Sukul

Charge: under Section 8 PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 10-03-16, 17-05-16, 15-06-16, 16-07-16 & 19-09-16.
Date of argument : 06-10-16.
Date of Judgment __: 06-10-16.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that the alleged victims, hereinafter referred to as ‘X’ & ‘Y’
had gone to the place called Banipur in Dibrugarh on 05-07-15 where they
were met by the accused person, who thereafter committed sexual assault
upon them. The two minor girls did not return home in the evening and took
shelter in a building, wherefrom they were recovered by the people of the
locality. The police was informed and the accused person was handed over
to the police by the elder brother of ‘Y’ and a police case was registered and
investigation commenced. In course of such investigation, the Investigating
Officer visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of witnesses
and on completion of investigation, submitted the Charge-Sheet.
Upon committal, this Court framed charge under Section 8 of the Protection
of Children From Sexual Offences Act (hereinafter PCSO Act) against the
accused person and the charge was read over and explained to the accused
person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined eight witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person/persons took the plea of denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Mr. Kezriwal, learned

counsel for the defence.
5)

6)

7)

Page 3 of 8

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the victims, i.e., ‘X’ & ‘Y’ were children within the meaning of
Section 2(d) of PCSO Act.?
2. Whether the accused committed sexual assault upon the prosecutrix?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

The victim ‘X’ who deposed as PW-1 recorded her age as 11 years which is
not in dispute and similarly, the victim ‘Y’ recorded her age as 12 years which
is not disputed either. It is accepted therefrom that the both the victims were

children at the relevant time.

Point No. 2:

The victim ‘Y’ who was examined as PW-5 deposed that at the time of
occurrence, she was staying along with her parents in the rented house of
accused person along with her parents. Another victim ‘X’ was also staying in
the rented house of the accused at the relevant time. On the day of
occurrence, at about 4 pm in the evening, she along with ‘X’ went to a nearby

\

shop and on their return, ‘X’ asked her for playing near the shop and in
course of such playing, they reached near the tea garden where ‘X’ asked her
to stay there for a while, which she refused as it was going to be dark and
her family member might rebuke her. Then ‘X’ caught hold of her for a while,
then the accused arrived there who confronted ‘Y’ that she used to report his
earlier activities with ‘X’ to other persons and dared her to do the same
action. He called ‘Y’ as ‘Shiani’ (clever) whereafter he caught of her cheek by
pressing it with one of his hands. When she started to cry, the accused told
her to stop it and that he would beat her if she cries. The accused took out a
small tablet and forcibly put it into her mouth. When she spat out the tablet,
the accused again picked it up and made her to swallow it whereafter he
pressed her breasts and also tried to remove her slacks. The accused tried to
bite her neck whereafter she felt drowsy as a result of which froth came out
of her mouth which fell on the body of the accused, whereafter the accused
took both of them on his scooter and left him on the main road.

During cross-examination, the victim ‘Y’ stated that she was present in the
Court for a short period when the statement of her elder brother was
recorded whereafter she was asked to go out and accordingly, she went out.

She stated the same thing to the Court as she had stated before the police.
8)

9)

Page 4 of 8

She further stated that at the time of her examination, she stated before the
attending lady doctor about pushing her chest and nothing else. She stated
the whole incident at the time of recording her statement under Section 164
CrPC as deposed by her to the Court except that the accused called her
‘Shiani’. Except the said persons, she did not state anything about the
incident to any other person. She denied the suggestion that the accused did
not press her breasts. She further stated that her slack was like a full pant.
She further denied the suggestion that the accused did not try to take off her
Slack and that the accused did not try to bite her neck. She also denied the
suggestion that she deposed falsely as tutored by her family members as
they were ousted from the rented house of the accused.

On the other hand, the other victim, i.e., PW-1 ‘xX’ deposed that she knew the
accused being their landlord. The informant is the elder brother of her friend
‘Y’. She could not remember when the occurrence took place. She further
stated that her friend ‘Y’ used to stay in the rented house owned by the
accused and she used to uproot some turmeric plants of the accused in her
presence whereafter at around 3:00 pm, the accused threatened them by
showing fire and warned them not to uproot turmeric plant again. On the
day of occurrence, ‘Y’ told her that the accused had called them to Pub
Banipur where he was waiting for them for presenting them with some gifts
on the occasion of Eid whereafter she along with ‘Y’ went to the said place.
But they did not find the accused there. The accused took her to the interior
place of Pub Banipur. When they decided to return home, ‘Y’ told her that her
mother would beat her if she returns home at that time, as it became dark.
On their way, they came across the LP school where ‘Y’ used to study and
accordingly, she along with ‘Y’ entered into the school whereafter ‘Y’ took out
something from her pocket which resembled gems chocolate. When ‘Y’
consumed it, froth came out from her mouth whereafter she started to
scream and hearing her shout, neighbouring people gathered and seeing
froth coming out from her mouth, ‘X’ also fainted. When ‘X’ regained her
senses, she found her at Assam Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh where
she had to stay for the night. PW-1 further stated that ‘Y’ was also admitted
in AMCH, Dibrugarh.

During cross-examination, PW-1 stated that they have been staying in the

rented house of the accused for more than 3-4 years and during this period,
Page 5 of 8

the accrued had done nothing bad with her. She further stated that she
knows the father and mother of the victim ‘Y’. She never saw the father of
the victim ‘Y’ staying with his family. The mother of the victim ‘Y’ has two
sons including one girl, i.e., the victim ‘Y. The mother of the victim ‘Y’ was
also the tenant of the accused who does not presently reside in the rented
house of the accused. She further stated that she could not say as to since
when Rohima was not a tenant of accused Sikul Ali. The accused did not oust
the mother of the victim ‘Y’ and her family members from his rented house,
but only asked them to vacate his house which they vacated after the
lodging of the case. PW-1 denied the suggestion that since the accused
ousted the mother of the victim ‘Y’ and her family including the victim ‘Y’
prior to the alleged incident, she filed the instant case.

10) Therefore, the alleged co-victim did not support the prosecution case and she
contradicted the version given by the victim ‘Y’.

11) PW-2, the mother of the victim ‘xX’ deposed that on the day of occurrence the
accused as well as her husband were keeping Roza whereas she had gone for
work and upon her return, when she did not find her daughter in the house,
she searched her in and around whereafter she went to the police station
along with her husband and the accused where they received a phone call
stating that her daughter along with other victim ‘Y’ have been recovered
from a school near her house. Accordingly, they went to the medical where
they found both the victims who told that they went there on their own and
that they did not implicate the accused person.

12) During cross-examination, PW-2 stated that the victim ‘Y’ is presently not
residing in the tenanted house of the accused as he asked them to vacate his
rented house.

13) Therefore, the mother of the victim ‘X’ also did not support the version of the
victim ‘Y’ as she clearly stated that the girls did not implicate the accused
person.

14) PW-3, the informant stated that on the date of occurrence, at about 7 pm,
while he was at Santipara Dibrugarh at his work place, he came to know that
his sister ‘Y’ was admitted in AMCH, Dibrugarh whereafter he immediately
went there and found her undergoing treatment along with another minor
girl. Later on, he came to know that his sister ‘Y’ along with another girl was

recovered from a class room of Chaulkhowa LP School. Upon asking by him,
Page 6 of 8

his sister told him that the accused had given her medicine as a result of
which she became unconscious. His sister also stated that another girl was
also present at that time. PW-3 further stated that a village people wrote the
ejahar whereafter he lodged the same at Amolapatty Police Outpost.

15)During cross-examination, PW-3 stated that he could not say about the
content of the ejahar being an illiterate person. He further stated that at
about 9/9.30 pm, when he met his younger sister ‘Y’ in the Hospital, about
30-40 persons were present there out of whom, he could only identify two
persons, namely, Anowar and Khande. After 3-4 hours, when his sister was
narrating the incident before him, no other person was present there. he
denied the suggestion that the accused did not offer any tablet to the victim
girl or she did not take any tablet and she also did not tell him like that.

16) Therefore, PW-3 the informant also did not say anything about the accused
person having sexually assaulted either of the victims.

17) PW-4 & PW-6 as well as PW-7 did not implicate the accused person in any
manner.

18) Although PW-5, i.e., the victim ‘Y’ had implicated the accused person, her
evidence has not been corroborated by any of the witnesses. In fact the
mother of the co-victim specifically stated that the victims did not implicate
the accused person when they were recovered. The informant and elder
brother of the victim ‘Y’ also did not say that the accused person committed
sexual assault upon her. Most significantly, the only other eye-witness to the
occurrence, i.e., PW-1 the victim ‘X’ has given a total clean-sheet to the
accused. Under these circumstances, it would not be safe to place reliance
upon the sole testimony of a child witness, who may be subjected to tutoring.
Hence, it is not established that the accused person committed sexual assault
upon the victims. The point is answered accordingly.

19)In the result, I hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its case
beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused person is acquitted
of the offence under Section 8 PCSO Act and he be set at liberty forthwith.

20) Previous bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6 (six) months
under Section 437-A CrPC.
Page 7 of 8

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 6" day of January
October, 2016.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 8 of 8

APPENDIX

List of witnesses: XXXX

List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Ejahar;
2. Ext. 2 Statement of the victim (PW-5) recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
3. Ext. 3 Sketch-Map;
4. Ext. 4 Extract copy of Gabharupather OP General Diary Entry No. 145 dtd.
06-07-15; and
5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
