DISTRICT : DHUBRI
IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHUBRI

PRESENT: - = Shri A. Chakravarty, M.A., LL.M., AJS

Special Case No. 45 of 2017

U/S 363, 376 IPC & 4 of the POCSO Act
Corresponding to G.R. Case No. 1913/2017

Stateof Assam Complainant
Versus

Sukur Ali ... Accused
Charge framed on : 09-08-2017

Evidence recorded on : 22-08-2017, 07-09-2017, 21-09-2017 & 23-10-2017
Statement recorded on : 01-11-2017

Arguments heard on : 06-11-2017

Judgment delivered on : 21-11-2017

Advocates who appeared in this case are:
Shri Maniruz Zaman, Special P.P. for the Prosecution

Shri Islamuddin Ahmed, for the Defence

JUDGMENT

1. This case was registered on 11-05-2017, at Gauripur Police Station, under
Sections 366(A), 376 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short “the IPC”), read
with Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in
short “the POCSO Act”), based on a First Information Report (in short “the FIR”)

filed by one Kalimuddin Sheikh against unknown culprits.

2. The case of the prosecution, as stated in the FIR, is that on 07-05-2017, at

around 04:00 p.m., the minor daughter of the informant (hereinafter referred to as
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

“the victim girl”), who was studying in Class-X at the Piyajbari High School, under
Gauripur Police Station, went missing. The informant searched for the victim girl,
but in vain. Apprehending that somebody might have induced the victim girl to go
with him due to love affairs or might have kidnapped her for selling outside the
State, the informant filed the FIR of the instant case with the Athani Police Out-
post on 10-05-2017.

3. The In-charge of the Athani Police Out-post entered the FIR in the General
Diary Book of the Out-post vide entry No. 117, dated 10-05-2017 and forwarded
the FIR to the Officer-in-Charge of the Gauripur Police Station for registration of a
case. He also started investigation in anticipation.

4. The Officer-in-Charge of the Gauripur Police Station registered the FIR as
No.540/17 for an offence punishable under Section 366(A) IPC against unknown
culprits and directed the S.I. of Police Sanjib Kr. Mazumdar to complete the
investigation.

5. During the course of investigation, the victim girl was recovered and she was
medically examined. Her statement was recorded by the Magistrate under section
164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “the
Cr.P.C.”). Statements of several witnesses were also recorded. As during
investigation, the Investigating Officer found that the accused Sukur Ali was the
unknown culprit who had kidnapped the victim girl and has also committed
offences under Section 376 IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act, the Section 376
IPC and Section 4 POCSO Act were added to the case. After completion of
investigation, the Investigating Officer filed charge sheet for offences under
Sections 366(A), 376 IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused
Sukur Ali in this Court as the offences under the POCSO Act are tirable by the
Special Court and this Court has been designated as the Special Court to try

offences under the POCSO Act. Hence, this case.

6. During trial, charges under Sections 363, 376 IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO
Act were framed against the accused person. When the contents of the charges
were read over and explained to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.

7. |The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined nine witnesses. The

accused did not examine any witness.
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

8. In his examination under section 313 Cr.P.C., the accused has denied the
prosecution case and has stated that the allegations levelled against him are false
and baseless.

9. The points for determination in this case are:-

I) Whether on 07-05-2017, at around 04:00 PM, at village Baniamari, Part-
V, under Gauripur Police Station, the accused Sukur Ali kidnapped the victim girl
who, at the relevant time, was a child under 18 years of age, from her lawful
guardianship and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 363 of

the Indian Panel Code?

IT) Whether on or about 07-05-2017, the accused Sukur Ali committed rape
on the victim girl and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 376
IPC?

IIT) Whether on or about 07-05-2017, the accused Sukur Ali committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl who, at the relevant time, was a child
under 18 years of age and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section
4 of the POCSO Act ?

If so, what punishment does he deserve?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

10. Ihave carefully examined the evidence on record, gone through the relevant
documents on record and after hearing the arguments advanced by the learned

counsels for both the sides, give my decision on the above points as follows:-

11. As all the points are co-related, all the points are discussed and decided

jointly.

12. ~The victim girl (P.W.-3) has deposed that on the day of the occurrence, at
around 05:00 p.m., while she was returning from tuition, at Makrirjhara, her
neighbour Salma took her to a shop and gave her a Singara (eatable). After eating
the Singara, she became unconscious. When she regained her senses, she found
that she was taken in a motorcycle to Mayarchar. The accused Sukur Ali and one
Abul were present there. The accused Sukur Ali took her to his house at Mayarchar

3
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

and committed rape on her. From there, the accused Sukur Ali took her to
Sunarigaon and kept her there in the house of his brother Shahjahan for three
days. There also, the accused Sukur Ali committed rape on her. From there, the
accused Sukur Ali again took her to his house at Mayarchar. There from, the
police recovered her. Her statement was recorded by the Magistrate. Ext-1 is her
said statement and Ext.-1 (1) and Ext.-1 (2) are her signatures therein. The police

also sent her to the hospital for medical examination.

13. In the cross-examination, she has stated that she does not know the name
of the tuition master. She was attending tutorial classes for one year. Three girls
and four boys also attended the tutorial class on that day. She does not remember
their names. The house of the tuition master and the shop where Salma gave her
the Singara were adjacent to each other. There were several shops and a bus stop
there. They went out together from the tutorial class. The distance between
Makrijhara and Mayarchar is about twenty kilometers. She spent the first night at
Mayarchar. The accused told her that the name of the said place was Mayarchar.
Next day, the accused took her by motorized boat from Mayarchar to Sunarigaon.
It took about an hour to reach the house of the brother of the accused. There
were six inmates in the house of the brother of the accused, including his wife and
mother. She did not tell anybody that the accused Sukur Ali had kidnapped her.
After three days, they returned from Sunarigaon to Mayarchar by motorized boat.
There were many passengers in the said boat. She did not tell any passenger of
the boat that the accused Sukur Ali had kidnapped her. Next day, the police came
and recovered her from Mayarchar. She told the police the above incidents. She
has denied the suggestion that she did not tell the police all the above incidents.
She has denied the suggestion that she did not tell the police that the accused
Sukur Ali had kidnapped her and committed rape on her. She has denied the
suggestion that she did not tell the police that Salma gave her a s/ngara and after
eating the singara, she became unconscious and thereafter, the accused Sukur Ali
and Abul took her to Mayarchar. She has denied the suggestion that the accused
Sukur Ali did not kidnap her and did not commit rape on her. She has denied the
suggestion that she did not tell the Magistrate that the accused Sukur Ali had
kidnapped her and committed rape on her. She has denied the suggestion that she

did not tell the police or the Magistrate in the same manner like she has deposed
4
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

in the court. She has denied the suggestion that the accused Sukur Ali is innocent
and she has deposed falsely. She does not remember the date of the alleged
incident. In total, the accused kept her for six days at Mayarchar and Sonarigaon.
She has no relation with the accused before the said incident. She did not tell the
Magistrate that she had love affair with the accused. She has denied the
suggestion that the accused Sukur Ali had no relation with Abul. She has denied
the suggestion that she has deposed falsely. She has denied the suggestion that

the accused is no way connected with this case.

14. P.W.-1 Kalimuddin Sheikh, the informant has deposed that about three
months ago, one day, the victim girl went missing from his house. He then
searched for her but, in vain. Therefore, he filed the FIR of the instant case with

the police. The Police recovered the victim girl from the house of the accused.

15. In the cross-examination, he has stated that he does not remember the date
and time when the police recovered the victim girl from the house of the accused.
He has denied the suggestion that the police did not recover the victim girl from
the house of the accused. He has also denied the suggestion that at the relevant

time, the age of the victim girl was more than 18 years.

16. P.W.-2 Soleman Ali Ahmed and P.W.-6 Azgor Ali have deposed that they know

nothing about the alleged incident.

17. P.W.-7 Johiruddin Sheikh has deposed that the victim girl is his neighbour. As
he did not see the victim girl for a few days, he inquired about her. The mother of
the victim girl told him that she had gone to the house of her elder sister. After

five/six days, he heard that the victim girl was recovered from Kamarpara.

18. In the cross-examination, he has stated that he did not tell the police that he

heard that the victim girl was recovered from Kamarpara.

19. P.W.-5 Dr. Md. Laskar Ali, the Radiologist of the Dhubri Civil Hospital who had
examined the victim girl to ascertain her age has deposed that her radiological was
approximately 17 years. He has further deposed that her radiological age was less
than 18 years. Exhibit-3 is the report prepared by him and exhibit 3 (1) is his

signature therein.
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

20. P.W.-4 Dr. (Mrs.) Muskura Ahmed, the medical officer who had examined the
victim girl has deposed that she did not find any abnormality or injury and any sign
of recent sexual intercourse on the victim girl. Exhibit-2 is the examination report

prepared by her and exhibit 2 (1) is her signature therein.

21. PW.-8 ASI Sanjib Mazumdar, the Investigation Officer of the case has
deposed that during the course of investigation, he visited the place of occurrence
and prepared a site plan. Ext.- 5 is the said site plan and Ext.- 5 (1) is his signature
therein. He has also recorded the statements of the witnesses. He has recovered
the victim girl along with the accused. He sent the victim girl for medical
examination and collected the medical examination report. He also sent the victim

girl to the court for recording her statement under section 164 CrP.C.

22. In the cross-examination, he has stated that the distance between
Makrijhara and Baniamari is about three kilometers. He has shown the Baniamari
village, from where the victim girl was allegedly kidnapped by the accused, as the
place of occurrence. The house of the victim girl is situated near the place of
occurrence. The witnesses also reside near the place of occurrence. He has never
visited Sonarigaon and Makrijhara in connection with this case. During
investigation, he visited Mayarchar, but did not examine any witness there. He did
not examine Abbas, Salma and Abul as witnesses. The victim girl did not tell him
that the accused committed rape on her or sexually assaulted her. He has denied

the suggestion that he has not properly investigated the case.

23. PW-9 S.I. Kulesh Chakravarty, the other Investigating Officer of the case has

submitted the charge sheet.

24. As can be seen from the above discussion, the case of the prosecution that
on 07-05-2017, at around 04:00 PM, at village Baniamari, Part-V, under Gauripur
Police Station, the accused Sukur Ali took away the victim girl, who at that time
was a child under 18 years of age, from her lawful guardianship, took her to his
house at Mayarchar and from there, to Sonarigaon, will admit of no doubt. The
victim girl has deposed that the police recovered her from the house of the
accused. The defence did not even challenge her in the cross-examination that the

police did not recover her from the house of the accused. The Investigating Officer

6
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

(PW-8) has also deposed that he recovered the victim girl along with the accused.
The defence did not challenge him also in the cross-examination that he did not
recover the victim girl along with the accused. Therefore, as the victim girl has
deposed that the accused had kidnapped her and committed rape on her, must be
accepted to be true. Further, as the P.W.-4 Dr. (Mrs.) Muskura Ahmed, the
medical officer who had examined the victim girl has deposed that she did not find
any abnormality or injury and any sign of recent sexual intercourse on the victim
girl, the instant case, at the most, is a case of consent. But, in view of the
provisions of the Section 114-A of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, the consensual
sexual intercourse between the accused and the victim girl has to be treated as
“Rape”. Section 114-A of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 reads as under:

“114-A. Presumption as to absence of consent in certain prosecutions for
Rape-In a prosecution for Rape under Clause (a) or Clause (b) or Clause (c) or
Clause (d) or Clause (e) or Clause (g) of Sub-section (2) of Section 376 of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), where sexual intercourse by the accused is
proved and the question is whether it was without the consent of the woman
alleged to have been Raped and she states in her evidence before the Court that

she did not consent, the Court shall presume that she did not consent.”

The accused was not able to give any satisfactory explanation in his
statement recorded Under Section 313 of the Code nor was he able to adduce any
defence evidence to rebut the presumption contained in Section 114-A of the

Indian Evidence Act, 1872 against him.

25. Section 4 of the POCSO Act deals with penetrative sexual assault. The term
"penetrative sexual assault" has been defined in Section 2(f) of the POCSO Act,
which states as follows:--

"penetrative sexual assault has the same meaning as assigned to it in
Section 3".

Section 3 of the POCSO Act reads as follows:--

"3. Penetrative sexual assault - A person is said to commit "penetrative

sexual assault" if -
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or

anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the
penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the child to do so

with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part off the body of the child so as to cause penetration
into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of the child or makes the child to do so

with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the child or

makes the child to do so to such person or any other person."

Section 2(a) of the POCSO Act, defines aggravated penetrative sexual assault,

which reads as follows:--

"aggravated penetrative sexual assault" has the same meaning as assigned to it

in Section 5."
Section 5(1) of the POCSO Act reads as follows:--

"whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on the child more than once or

repeatedly is said to commit aggravated sexual assault”.

26. The scope of the provision of Section 3 is crystal clear. Hence, the Section

requires no further elucidation. Section 4 is the penal provision for Section 3.

27. In order to attract any offence under the provisions of the POCSO Act, it
should be proved by the prosecution that on the date of the commission of the
crime, the victim was a child. The term "child" has been defined in Section 2(d) of
the POCSO Act, which states that child means any person below the age of 18
years. Thus, for the purpose of any offence under the POCSO Act, the age of the
victim should be proved to be below 18 years as on the date of commission of the
alleged crime. Further, one of the essential ingredients of the offence of
kidnapping is that the victim should not have attained the age of 18 years.
Therefore, for the purpose of the offence of kidnapping as well as for any offence
under the POCSO Act, the age of victim should be proved to be below 18 years on
the crucial date. In the instant case, as can be seen from the above discussion, on

8
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

the day of the occurrence, the victim girl was a child under 18 years of age. PW-5
Dr. Md. Laskar Ali, who had examined the victim girl to determine her age, has
deposed that the Radiological age of the victim girl was approximately 17 years
but, less than 18 years. The defence only suggested to the PW-5 that at the time
of examination, the radiological age of the victim girl was more than 18 years
which, the PW-5 has denied. Therefore, the suggestion is of no use as the defence
did not adduce any positive evidence to prove the suggestion and evidence on
record does not support the suggestion. Therefore, it must be held that on the day
of the commission of the alleged offence, the victim girl was a child under 18 years

of age.

28. As the victim girl has deposed that the accused kidnapped her and
committed rape on her at Mayarchar and also at Sonarigaon and she was
subjected to lengthy cross-examination by an experienced advocate but nothing

has come out to create reasonable doubt in her testimony.

29. In the case of MUKESH Vs. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH, reported in
(2014) 10 SCC 327, the Hon’ble Supreme Court has held as follows:-

“15. Further, as has been repeatedly held by this Court in a catena of cases,
the sole Testimony of the witness is sufficient to establish the commission of Rape
even in the absence of corroborative evidence. Reliance has been placed on the
decision of this Court in the case of Md. Iqbal and Another Vs. State of
Jharkhand, AIR 2013 SC 3077, which states as under:

17. There is no prohibition in law to convict the accused of Rape on the basis
of sole Testimony of the prosecutrix and the law does not require that her

statement be corroborated by the statements of other witnesses.

18. In Narender Kumar v. State (NCT of Delhi) this Court has observed
that even if a woman is of easy virtues or used to sexual intercourse, it cannot be
a licence for any person to commit Rape and it further held: (SCC p. 180, paras
30-31)

30. ... conviction can be based on sole Testimony of the prosecutrix provided
it lends assurance of her Testimony. However, in case the Court has reason not to

accept the version of the prosecutrix on its face value, it may look for

9
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

corroboration. In case the evidence is read in its totality and the story projected by
the prosecutrix is found to be improbable, the prosecutrix's case becomes liable to

be rejected.

31. The Court must act with sensitivity and appreciate the evidence in
totality of the background of the entire case and not in the isolation. Even if the
prosecutrix is of easy virtues/unchaste woman that itself cannot be a
determinative factor and the Court is required to adjudicate whether the accused

committed Rape on the prosecutrix on the occasion complained of.”

30. In view of the above, in the instant case, the testimony of the victim girl
must be accepted to be true. Therefore, the accused Sukur Ali must be held guilty
of kidnapping and committing rape/penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl,
which are offences punishable under Sections 363, 376 IPC and Section 4 of the
POCSO Act. But, as the punishment for the offence under Section 376 IPC and
Section 4 of the POCSO Act are same, there is no necessity of convicting the
accused under Section 376 IPC.

31. Regarding culpable mental state of the accused, we may refer to the Section
30 of the POSCO Act, which reads as follows:-

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state.- (1) In any prosecution for
any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of
the accused, the Special Court shall presume the existence of such mental state
but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such

mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when
the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely

when its existence is established by a preponderance of probability”.

32. In the instant case, on 07-05-2017, at around 04:00 PM, at village
Baniamari, Part-V, under Gauripur Police Station, the accused Sukur Ali kidnapped
the victim girl, who at the relevant time was a child under 18 years of age from
her lawful guardianship and took her to his house at Mayarchar and from there, to
Sonarigaon and committed rape/penetrative sexual assault on her. Therefore, it

must be presumed that he had culpable mental state. Further, the accused did not

10
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

rebut the said presumption. Therefore, it is held that the accused had culpable
mental state in committing the alleged offences. That apart, the presumption of
guilt under Section 29 of the POSCO Act also needs to be applied as all the
necessary facts regarding commission of the offence under the POSCO Act have

been proved. The said presumption also has not been rebutted by the accused.

33. In the result, from the facts and circumstances of the case and above
discussion, I hold that the prosecution has succeeded in bringing home the
charges under Sections 363 IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused Sukur Ali beyond all reasonable. Hence, I hold him guilty of committing
the offences punishable under Section 363 IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act
and convict him under the said Sections of law. The points are decided in the

affirmative, accordingly.

34. The minimum sentence prescribed under Section 4 of the POCSO Act is
Rigorous Imprisonment for seven years which cannot be modified or altered.
Therefore, the Probation of Offenders Act is not applicable to the instant case. As
such, the accused is not entitled to get the benefit of the ameliorative relief as

envisaged under the said Act.

35. Heard the accused on the question of sentence. He has pleaded leniency in

awarding the punishment on the ground that he is a first offender and is a youth.

36. In the case of State of A.P. v. Bodem Sundara Rao, reported in (1995) 6
SCC 230: AIR 1996 SC 530, dealing with a case of reduction of sentence from 10
years R.I. to 4 years R.I. by the High Court in the case of rape of a girl aged

between 13 and 14 years, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed as follows:

“In recent years, we have noticed that crime against women are on the rise.
These crimes are an affront to the human dignity of the society. Imposition of
grossly inadequate sentence and particularly against the mandate of the
legislature not only is an injustice to the victim of the crime in particular and the
society as a whole in general but also at times encourages a criminal. The Courts
have an obligation while awarding punishment to impose appropriate punishment
so as to respond to the society's cry for justice against such criminals. Public

abhorrence of the crime needs a reflection through the Court's verdict in the

11
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

measure of punishment. The Courts must not only keep in view the rights of the
criminal but also the rights of the victim of crime and the society at large while
considering imposition of the appropriate punishment. The heinous crime of
committing rape on a helpless 13/14 years old girl shakes our judicial conscience.
The offence was inhumane.” The sentence was accordingly enhanced to 7 years

R.I. in the said case.

37. Inthe case of CHANDER SINGH Vs. STATE, reported in (2016) 2 Crimes
792, in a case under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, the Hon’ble Delhi High Court has
held as follows:--

“20. Consequently, the conviction of Chander Singh is altered to one for
offence defined under Section 7 and punishable under Section 8 of Pocso Act. The
punishment for sexual assault prescribed under Section 8 is imprisonment for not
less than 3 years which may extend up to 5 years and to pay fine as well. The
conduct of Chander Singh in sexually assaulting a deaf and dumb girl who was not
in a position to protect herself fully warrants maximum punishment. Consequently,
the order on sentence of Chander Singh is altered and modified. Chander Singh is
directed to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 5 years and to pay a
fine of Rs. 10,000/- in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a

period of 1 month.”

38. In the instant case, as can be seen from the testimony of the victim girl,
she seems to have eloped with the accused of her own accord as the accused was
taking her from one place to another using motorcycle and public transport and
kept her in his house and in the house of his brother but, the victim girl neither
tried to escape nor complaint to anybody that the accused had kidnapped her. She
also seems to have consented to sexual intercourse with the accused. But, even if
there is consent, as has been discussed earlier, the commission of sexual
intercourse with the victim girl by the accused was penetrative sexual assault as
the victim girl was under 18 years of age. In view of the above, I deem it proper

to punish the accused Sukur Ali leniently.

12
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

ORDER

39. Considering the entire facts and circumstances of the case, I sentence the
accused Sukur Ali to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year and to pay a fine
of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees one thousand) only, in default to undergo rigorous
imprisonment for one month, for committing the offence under Sections 363 IPC
and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to pay a fine of Rs.
10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand) only, in default to undergo rigorous imprisonment
for one year, for committing the offence under Section 4 of the POCSO Act which,
in my opinion, will meet the ends of justice in this case. Both the sentences shall
run concurrently as both the offences have arisen from one transaction. The
period of detention already undergone by the accused during investigation and
trial shall be set off from the sentence of imprisonment. His bail bond stands

cancelled. Issue jail warrant.

40. Furnish a copy of the judgment to the convict free of cost, immediately.

41. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on this the 21° day of
November, 2017, at Dhubri.

(A.Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Dhubri
Dictated & corrected by me.

(A.Chakravarty)
Special judge, Dhubri

13
Special Case No. 45 of 2017

APPENDIX

1. PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

P.W.- 1
P.W.-2
P.W.-3
P.W.-4
P.W.-5
P.W.-6
P.W.-7
P.W.-8
P.W.-9

Kalim Uddin Sheikh
Soleman Ali Ahmed

The victim girl

Dr. (Mrs.) Muskura Ahmed
Dr. Md. Laskar Ali

Azgor Ali

Johiruddin Sheikh

A.S.1I. Sanjib Mazundar
S.I. Kulesh Chakravarty

2. PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:

Exhibit-1
Exhibit-2
Exhibit-3
Exhibit-4
Exhibit-5
Exhibit-6

(A.Chakravarty)

Statement of the victim u/s.164 Cr.P.C.
Medical examination Report.
Radiological Report

FIR

Site Plan

Charge sheet

Special Judge, Dhubri

14
