Page 1 of 9

CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 42/16

Informant: §Smti. Nilakanta Chutia,
W/o- Sri Nilakanta Chutia,
R/o- Phatikachua,
PS- Moran,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Ranjit Bora,
S/o- Sri Budheswar Bora,
R/o- Majgaon,
PS- Khowang,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. NB Shah, learned Legal Aid Counsel.
Page 2 of 9

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 42/16
G.R. Case No. 1090/16

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Ranjit Bora

Charges: Under Section 366 IPC & Section 6 r/w Section 5(I1) POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 31-08-16, 01-10-16 & 17-01-17.
Date of argument —_: 17-01-17.
Date of Judgment —: 09-02-17.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
The brief account of this case is that on 21-03-16, the minor victim X eloped
with Sri Ranjit Bora (hereinafter the accused) who was already married at
that time. After a frantic search the victim’s mother learnt that her daughter
was confined by the accused in a rented house at Kiran Nagar in Moran.
An ejahar regarding this incident was lodged by the mother of the victim
Smti. Rumi Chutia (hereinafter the complainant). The police registered Moran
Police Station Case No. 94/16 under Section 366-A of the Indian Penal Code
(IPC in short) and SI Pratap Borgohain was entrusted with the investigation.
The Investigating Officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation. He
went to the place of occurrence and prepared the Sketch-Map. He recovered
the victim and forwarded her for medical examination and for recording her
statement under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC in
short) and finding prima facie materials against the accused, the IO
submitted the Charge-Sheet under Section 366-A IPC.
On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and as the case was
triable by the Sessions Judge, the case was committed to this Court vide
order dtd. 04-06-16 passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate, 1° Class,
Dibrugarh in connection with GR Case No. 1090/16. Subsequently, the case

was transferred to the Court of the learned Asstt. Sessions Judge, Dibrugarh.
5)

6)

7)

8)

9)

Page 3 of 9

During trial, the case was transferred by the learned Asstt. Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh to this Court after perusal of the statement of the victim under
Section 164 CrPC observing that as the victim is a minor, the accused ought
to be booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act
(PCSO Act in short).
My learned predecessor was pleased to add charge under Section 6 read with
Section 5 (I) of the PCSO Act. The accused abjured his guilt and claimed
innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of eight
witnesses including the IO whereas the defence confined itself to extensive
cross-examination of the witnesses. The Medical Officer, PW-2, PW-3 and
PW-5 were not cross-examined extensively.

SUBMISSIONS
Learned Public Prosecutor Smti. R. Devi submitted that the accused deserves
to be punished as he cheated the victim by posing himself as an unmarried
man. On the contrary, the learned defence counsel submitted that this case is
bereft of any incriminating materials against the accused and the accused
ought to get the benefit of doubt.
On the circumstances arising against him, the accused person answered that
the victim was his wife’s friend and she willingly went to his house on her
own volition. He also stated that a false case was foisted against him with
false allegations.
To decide the case in its right perspective, the following points are apposite
for determination.

1. Whether the accused kidnapped the minor X in order that she
may be forced to illicit intercourse or in order to compel her to
marry any person against her will?

2. Whether at the same time and place, the accused committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon the minor X?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION

10) In order to decide the case in its right perspective, it is necessary to advert to

the evidence on record.

11) The victim X testified as PW-4 that on 21-03-16, at about 11:30 am, while

she was returning from her maternal uncle’s house, she met the accused who

requested her to go with him. She refused to go with the accused person, but
Page 4 of 9

he forcefully took her in a ‘Traveler’ vehicle to his house. She met his parents,
brothers and sisters. After staying in the house for two days, he applied
vermillion on her forehead and accepted her as his wife. She further testified
that she stayed with the accused as husband and wife. Later on, she learnt
from the villagers that the accused was already married and he sent his wife
to his in-law’s house. At that time, she tried to return to her parent’s house,
but the accused prevented her from going out of his house. The accused took
her to a rented house and kept her there. The villagers who saw her in his
house, informed her mother and thereafter, police recovered her from the
rented house along with the accused person and took her to the police
Station. Police recorded her statement and she was forwarded to the
Magistrate to record her statement. Ext. 2 is her statement before the
Magistrate and Ext. 2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures. She was forwarded for
medical examination. She met the accused person's wife in the police station.
Police took her and the accused to the police station.

12) The statement of the victim does not at all inspire confidence. The victim is a
minor, but her evidence clearly depicts that she was a consenting party. The
accused cannot be held guilty even though the victim is a minor, because, the
victim's statement clearly depicts the veracity of her evidence. Her statement
clearly depicts that she stayed with the accused person and his family
members for two days. Moreover, she stated that she was forcibly taken in a
‘Traveler’ vehicle which is a public vehicle. It is not possible for a lad as young
as the accused to forcefully take a victim of Class-X in a ‘Traveler’ vehicle
forcibly because there were other passengers in the ‘Traveler’ vehicle.
Moreover she admitted in her cross-examination that when the accused kept
her in a rented house in Moran, she used to stay alone in the house and the
accused used to go for work. It she was forcefully confined inside the rented
house, she would have tried to escape. There is no hint in the evidence,
whether she tried to escape from the rented house in Moran. There is also no
hint in her evidence whether the accused forcefully applied vermillion on her
head without her consent. It is mandated under Section 29 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offices Act, 2012 (hereinafter
POCSO Act) that:- Where a person is prosecuted for committing or
abetting or attempting to commit any offence under Section 3, 5, 7

& 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person has
Page 5 of 9

committed the offence, unless the contrary is proved. In my foregoing
discussions, it has already been held that the contrary has been proved. The
question of presumption that the accused has committed this act, does not
arise at all, because the evidence of the victim does not inspire confidence.
The evidence of the victim as well as her mother cannot be given credence.
Moreover, it is very strange that the victim’s mother lodged the ejahar after a
month. According to the victim's evidence and the ejahar, it is clear that the
victim disappeared on 21-03-16, but the ejahar was lodged on 28-04-16.

13) The victim's mother Smti. Rumi Chutia testified as PW-1 that on 21* April,
2016, she came to know from her brother that her daughter X was returning
from his house, but she did not reach home till evening. Then they set out to
search for her daughter, but could not trace her out. After a frantic search, on
24-04-16, she came to know from a villager that her daughter was staying in
a rented house let out by Sri Ranjit Bora at Kiran Path of Natun Nagar under
Moran Police Station. Then on 28-04-16, she went to the Moran Police Station
and lodged the ejahar which was written by a neighbour. Ext. 1 is the ejahar
and Ext. 1(1) is her signature. She accompanied the police and showed them
the area where her daughter was residing with the accused in a rented
house. Then she went with the police to Ranjit Bora’s rented house and met
her daughter with the accused and his wife.

14) At this juncture, it is pertinent to note that the victim PW-4 testified that she
met the accused person's first wife in the police station, while her mother
testified as PW-1 that the victim X was already staying with the accused
along with his first wife in a rented house. This casts a shadow of doubt over
the veracity of the evidence of PW-1 as well as PW-4.

15) PW-4 further testified that the police took both the accused and her daughter
to the Moran Police Station and when she asked her daughter about the
occurrence, X told her that she was taken by the accused in a vehicle while
she was returning from her maternal uncle’s house to their own house. The
police forwarded her daughter to Assam Medical College & Hospital,
Dibrugarh for medical examination and to the Magistrate for recording her
statement. During investigation, she submitted a Birth Certificate regarding
the victim's age.

16) The evidence of PW-1 & 4 does not at all inspire confidence. Moreover, the

evidence of other witnesses also does not implicate that the accused is
Page 6 of 9

complicit.

17) Sri Nilakanta Chutia testified as PW-2 that the victim is his daughter who was
fifteen years at the time of incident. The incident took place after the Bohag
Bihu of 2016. On the day of the incident, his daughter was returning from her
uncle’s house, but she did not return home till evening and they also could
not find her. After 4-5 days, his wife Smti. Rumi Chutia learnt from the
villagers that his daughter was staying in a rented house with the accused
person at Moran Natun Nagar. Then his wife informed the police and police
recovered her from the rented house with the accused person. Then he went
to the Moran Police Station and met his daughter who told him that while she
was returning home from her uncle’s house, the accused took her and kept
her in a rented house.

18) His evidence depicts that the accused took his daughter to his house. This act
of the accused cannot be accepted as criminal act. The victim’s evidence
clearly depicts that the accused was known to her. The victim’s father’s
evidence depicts in a casual manner that the accused took his daughter to his
house.

19) Another witness Smti. Gitanjali Phukan testified as PW-5 that about four
months ago (from 01-10-16), she heard from her neighbours that when X
was proceeding towards her uncle’s house, one boy took her with him. She
heard that X is married to the boy.

20) This PW-5's evidence depicts another story. Her evidence depicts that the
victim was taken by the accused while she was heading towards her house
which is contrary to the evidence of other witnesses.

21) Another witness Sri Pulin Chutia testified as PW-7 that the incident took place
about 9-10 months ago. The complainant informed her that her daughter was
taken away by somebody. Then he advised her to inform the police. Police
recovered the victim along with the accused person from a rented house at
Natun Nagar, Moran where both the victim and the accused were living as
husband and wife. He saw the victim whose present age is 14-15 years and
was a student of Class-IX.

22) This evidence goes against the prosecution case, because PW-7 testified that
the victim was living with the accused as husband and wife. Can the accused
be held guilty for staying with a girl who has willingly agreed to be his wife?

Can the accused be vested with the guilt of kidnapping a girl who has
Page 7 of 9

willingly gone with him because the girl is a minor? It is true that the girl is
minor because the Medical Officer has opined that the victim was above
fourteen years and below sixteen years. I believe the benefit of two years on
the higher side should be given to the accused.

23)The medical officer Dr. Asrulina Deori testified as PW-6 that on 29-04-16,
while she was working in the Department of Forensic Medicine, Assam
Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh as Medical Officer, she examined the
victim X in connection with this case and found the following:

(1) X-ray elbow joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union completed;
(2) X-ray wrist joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union not completed;
(3) X-ray of shoulder joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union not completed;
(4) X-ray of pelvis (AP view) Iliac crest not united.
(S/D- Department of Radiology, AMCH, Dibrugarh.)

24) The doctor opined that on the basis of Radiological examination done on the
victim X, her opinion is that X is above 14 years and below 16 years. Opinion
regarding whether she was raped or not, whether there is any violation mark
on her external and internal part of the body could not be given as the victim
X refused medical examination. Ext. 3 is the Medico-legal Report wherein Ext.
3(1) to Ext. 3(3) are her signatures. She placed her report before the Head of
the Department, who concurred with her findings. Ext. 3(4) is the signature
of Dr. RK Gogoi, Head of Forensic Medicine.

25) After considering the Medical Officer’s evidence, I believe that the benefit of
two years ought to be given to the accused. The victim is opined to be below
sixteen years. The calculation of two years on either side has to be calculated
on the higher side. Technicalities has to be avoided and a more pragmatic
view has to be taken. I have considered the facts and circumstances of this
case which clearly depicts the complete involvement of the victim in the act.
The victim stayed with the accused person in hiding for several days. She was
also privy to the fact that the accused was already married and she found the
accused along with his wife. The accused himself is a young lad of only
eighteen years. It can be easily deciphered that both the accused and the
victim were around the same age and they have acted in a clandestine
manner conjointly.

26) The IO is a formal witness and he testified as PW-8 that on 28-04-16, while

he was posted as 2" Officer at Moran Police Station, an ejahar was lodged by
Page 8 of 9

Smti. Rumi Chutia and the Officer-in-charge registered a Moran Police Station
Case No. 94/16 under Section 366-A IPC and entrusted him with the
investigation. He embarked upon the investigation. Ext. 1 is the ejahar
wherein Ext. 1(2) is the signature of the Officer-in-charge Dulal Chandra
Mahanta which is familier to him. He recorded the statement of the
complainant in the police station and proceeded to the place of occurrence
and recorded the statements of the witnesses. He went to the rented house
which was pointed out by the victim's mother and recovered the accused and
the victim and brought them to the Moran Police Station. The statement of
the victim was recorded and she was forwarded to the Magistrate for
recording her statement. He arrested the accused and forwarded him to the
Court. He seized a school certificate of Phatikachua ME School from the
complainant. He obtained the Medico-legal Report of the victim. He finally
submitted Charge-Sheet under Section 366-A IPC. Ext. 4 is the Charge-Sheet
wherein Ext. 4(1) is his signature.

27) In my foregoing discussions, it has already been held that the accused cannot
be fastened with the guilt of kidnapping the victim even though the victim
appears to be minor. The victim herself was complicit in eloping with the
accused on her own volition. Thereby it is held that the prosecution had failed
to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt that the accused person induced
the victim to go from her house with such an intention that she will be
seduced to illicit intercourse. The evidence does not at all imply that the
accused committed aggravated sexual intercourse with the victim. Thereby,
the accused is acquitted from the charges under Section 366 IPC & Section 6
r/w Section 5(1) POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 9" day of
February, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 9 of 9

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 Smti. Rumi Chutia;
2. PW-2 Sri Nilakanta Chutia;
3. PW-3 Smti. Parineeta Chutia;
4. PW-4 Smti. Gitanjali Phukan;
5. PW-5 Dr. Asrulina Deori;
6. PW-6 Sri Pulin Chutia; and
7. PW-7 SI Pratap Borgohain.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Ejahar;
2. Ext. 2 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
3. Ext. 3 Medico-legal Report; and
4. Ext. 4 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
