1|Page

In the court of Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu,
Assam

Present ; Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Special Court, Karbi Anglong,
Diphu

Special (POCSO) Case No. 19 of 2017
corresponding to GR Case No. 249/17 &
Khatkhati P.S case No. 36 of 2017
Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act

State of Assam
Versus
Ali Hussain

Name of informant/complainant:
Smt. Deepa Sunar
W/o Shri Prem Sunar
Village: Wafang Taro
Borlengri Il
P.S: Khatkhati
Dist: Karbi Anglong

Name of the accused person facing trial:
Md. Ali Hussain
S/o Late Mohab Ali
Village: Borlengri Block-Il
P.S: Kamalpur
District: Ambasha, Tripura

Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution: Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defence : Mr. Jitu Paul, State Legal Aid Counsel

Date(s ) fixed for Argument : 04-08-2018
Date(s) fixed for Judgment : 07-08-2018

UDGMENT
2|Page

1.

It is a case of sexual assault towards a female child who
was only 13 (Thirteen) years by a person who was made
brother of the complainant.

The prosecution case in brief is that on 14-04-2017, the
complainant named above lodged a written ejahar with
Khatkhati Police Station stating inter alia that on 10-04-
2017 at about 5.30 pm the accused forcefully touched the
private parts of the complainant’s victim daughter. On
receipt of the written ejahar, Khatkhati Police Station
registered a criminal case vide Khatkhati Police Station
Case No.36-2017 under section 8 of the POCSO Act. On
completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted
under section 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused
person. Hence the prosecution case has come up.

The accused person is facing trial from the jail hojot.
Copy was supplied to him. Having very carefully gone
through submissions of both sides as well as case diary |
found ground for presuming that the accused person
committed the offence under section 8 of the POCSO Act.
Accordingly the charge was framed. The particular of the
offence charged was duly read over and explained to him
to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

During trial the prosecution has examined as many as 8
(Eight) prosecution witnesses. The accused person has
been examined under section 313 of the CrPC. The
defence has examined none. Plea of defence is of total
denial.

Points for determination:-

Whether on 10-04-2017 at 5.30 Pm the accused person
committed sexual assault in the house of the complainant
under Khatkhati Police Station, Karbi-Anglong, Assam?

Decisions and reasons there of:

| have very carefully gone through verbal marathon
arguments advanced by the learned counsel of both sides
as well as evidence on record. In the very outset, the
learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused person
has contended that the prosecution has miserably failed to
prove its case against the accused person beyond all
3|Page

reasonable doubts. On the other hand, the learned Public
Prosecutor, Mr.D.K.Deka refuting the aforesaid submission
has submitted that the prosecution has succeeded in
establishing its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions,
it would be appropriate to give a glance at evidence
record.

Appreciation of evidence on record

Bs PW-1 is Smt. Dipa Sonar who has stated in her
statement that she is the complainant of this case. She
knows the accused person, victim girl is her daughter. The
occurrence took place in the year 2017. On the day of
occurrence at evening about 7 pm she and her two sisters
were sitting in the “Varandah” and talking. Her brother-in-
law was sleeping in room due to load sheding. At that time
in her sitting room her brother in law noticed the accused
kissing her daughter forcefully and instantly her brother-in-
law gave slap the victim girl and brought the accused in
front of them. On being asked the victim girl told that the
accused often used to molest her by touching her breast
and kiss her. On being asked, the accused he told that he
had entered into the sleeping room by backdoor of the
house. At the time of occurrence her victim daughter was
about 12 years. Thereafter the accused fled away from
their house. Thereafter they informed the “Gaonbura”
about the occurrence. Gaonbura convened a meeting. In
the meeting the accused was brought by his owner, but in
the meeting there was no decision taken in the meeting so
she lodged a written ejahar with Khatkhati Police Station.
Ext-1 is the ejahar and Ext-1(1) is her signature. Thereafter
police got the victim girl medically examined and her
statement was recorded in the Court. Court handed over
the custody of victim girl to her.

8. PW-2 is Shri Prem Sunar who stated in his evidence
that he knows the complainant who is his wife. He also
knows the accused person. Victim girl is his daughter. At
the time of occurrence he was outside of house. After the
occurrence he entered into the house and saw my
complainant wife, her two sisters, and_ brother-in-law
named Saltan with the accused. As soon as he had entered
the house, Sultan informed him that the accused entered
into the bed room through the back door and kissed the
victim forcibly there. Sultan seeing the occurrence from the
drawing room went to the bed room and apprehended the
4|Page

accused and handed over the victim to the informant after
dragging out her by holding of her hairs. The informant
also informed him that the accused was making sexual
harassment the victim by kissing her on her breasts and
that the accused would kill them if matter was informed to
anybody. Earlier the accused informed him that he was
possessing a pistol. The accused person managed to flee
away. There after the matter was informed to local
Gaonbura. After one week from the date of occurrence, the
accused was brought before Gaonbura after apprehension.
As Gaonbura failed to take any decision, his wife lodged a
case with Khatkhati police station.

9. PW-3 is John Lotha who stated in his evidence that he
knows the complainant, accused and the victim girl. The
complainant’s house is in front of his house. The accused
Ali Hussain’s house also is nearby his house. On the day of
occurrence at evening on hearing “hulla” in the house of
the complainant he went there and saw neighbours
assembling in the house of the complainant. On being
asked the people gathered there told him that accused
tried to rape the daughter of the complainant. After
occurrence the accused managed to flee away from the
place of occurrence. But afterwards the villagers managed
to apprehend the accused person and by that time police
reached there. Police seized one birth certificate from the
victim daughter and | signed there as a witness. Ext-2 is
the seizure list and Ext-2(1) is my signature.

10. PW-4 is Smt. Sunu Tamang who stated in her
evidence that she knows the complainant, victim and the
accused person. The occurrence took place in the year
2017. On the day of occurrence at bout 6.00-7.00 pm they
Saw many people in front of the house of the complainant.
Some people told him that the accused tried to rape the
victim but the local public caught the accused person.

11. PW-5 is Shri Dorjee Lama who stated in his
evidence that he knows the complainant, victim and the
accused person. The occurrence took place in the year
2017. On the day of occurrence at about 6.00 pm he saw
many public in front of the house of complainant. Some
public told him that the accused tried to rape the victim
but local people caught the accused person. At the time of
occurrence the age of the victim was 12 years. At PO Police
5|Page

seized one original Birth Certificate of the victim and
prepared a seizure list and he put his signature thereon as
a witness. Ext-2 is the seizure list and Ext-2(2) is his
signature. Later police gave Zimma of the birth certificate
to the informant. Ext-3 is the Zimmanama and Ext-3(1) is
his signature.

12. PW-6 is Shri Janak Rai who stated in his
evidence that he the complainant, victim and the accused
person. The occurrence took place in the year 2017. On
the day of occurrence h heard some “Halla” and saw a
gathering in front of the house of complainant. Some
villagers told him that the accused tried to rape the victim.
At the time of the occurrence the age of the victim was
about 12-13 years old.

LS. PW-7 is Dr Mercy Rongpharpi who stated in her
evidence that On 17-04-17 she was posted at Diphu Civil
Hospital as Medical & Health Officer. On that day she
examined Smt. Sushmita Sunar brought by WBC 550
Prasila Rongpipi in reference with Khatkhati P.S case No.
36/17 and found the followings:

History

One of her neighbour bearing the name of Ali
Hussain has been trying to molest her but of and on since
February 2017 in the absence of her guardian. According
to her there is no history of sexual intercourse.

Medical Examination

On examination hymen was found intact. There was
no injury seen on her private parts. The age of the victim
by radiological examination is below 14 years in between
12-13 years. Ext-4 is the medical examination report. Ext-
4(1) is his signature.

14. PW-8 is Miss Susmita Sonar who stated in her
evidence that the occurrence took place in evening about
6 pm. At the time of occurrence she was inside the house
and other members of her family were sitting in the
courtyard. At that time the accused entered into her house
and by holding of her hips he brought her closer to his
body and kissed on her lips and touched her breast. The
room in which the occurrence took place her Uncle was
sleeping and after waking up he dragged the victim out
from the room by holding of her hairs to court yard where
other family members were sitting. Thereafter her parents
6|Page

caught the accused and slapped him. At that time the wife
of the accused came and to their house and took back the
accused with her to their own house. Police got her
medically examined and got her statement recorded in
Diphu Court. Ext-5 is the statement and Ext-5(1) is his
signature. At present her age is 13 years. At the time of
occurrence she was reading in class 5.

15. In the instant case a female child who was only
14 years old was involved. The learned defence counsel
has submitted that 7 days delay is very much fatal to the
prosecution case mainly delay in filing of FIR is avoided as
it gives chance for exaggeration and for distorting
evidence. Ext-1 is FIR which was lodged by the mother of
the victim child. Evidence of PW-2 who is the father of the
victim child shows that due to non-availability of local
Gaonbura, immediate after occurrence meeting could not
be convened. It also appears that there were only four
days delay in filing of FIR. From the discussion made
above it cannot be said that there has been inordinate or
unexplained delay in filing of FIR in the instant case. Taking
all aspects | find no substance in the submission made
above.

16. The entire prosecution case mainly rests upon
the evidence of the victim child. Before going to factual
matrix let us see whether the victim was a female child or
not. The “child” is defined in the section 2(d) of the POCSO
Act as “child” means any person below the age of eighteen
years. PW-5 is the medial officer who examined the victim
child and Ext-4 is the medical report which shows that at
the time of occurrence the victim child was below 14 years
old female child. PW-2 is the father of the victim child. PW-
1 is the mother of the victim child and _ informant.
According to them at the time of occurrence the victim
child was 12 years old.

17. PW-1 and PW-2 are the parents of the victim child
who are the best person to say the age of the victim child.
PW-3 and PW-5 are the basically witness to seizure list by
which a birth certificate was seized. Ext-2 is the seizure list
which shows that the birth certificate of the victim child
was seized on being produced by the informant. It also
shows that date of birth of the victim child is 04-12-2003. |
7|Page

have also perused the Photostat copy of the said birth
certificate of the victim child which also shows that her
date of birth is 04-12-2003.Evidence of PW-6 shows that at
the time of occurrence the victim was about 12-13 years
old. The defence has not disputed the evidence on record
in respect of age of the victim child at the time of
occurrence. From the discussion made above it can be said
comfortably that at the time of occurrence the victim was
below 14 years.

18. From the evidence of PW-1 and PW-2 it appears
that one Sultan saw the occurrence physically. Evidence of
victim child marked a PW-8 shows that one there relative
Saw the occurrence. But said Sultan has not been
examined by the prosecution. Evidence of PW-1 and PW-2
shows that they were reported that the accused kissed the
victim child and pressed her breast. It is evident that PW-3
to PW-6 came to PO after occurrence hearing shouting and
they came to know from the villagers assembled there that
the accused made attempt to rape the victim child. The
evidence of Medical Officer shows that there is no history
of sexual intercourse. Normally in such a case eye
witnesses are rarely found.

19. Now entire prosecution case lies on the evidence
of PW-8 who is the victim child. It has been contended by
the learned defence counsel that the victim is consented
party and as such there is no case against the accused
person. It is a case of sexual assault. Sexual assault is
defined in the section 7 of the POCSO Act. For appropriate
appreciation the said section is re-produced below:-

“7, Sexual assault.-Whoever, with sexual intent touches
the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the
child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such
person or any other person, or does any other act with
sexual intent which involves physical contact without
penetration is said to commit sexual assault.”

20. Bare reading of section 7 of the POCSO Act shows
that the consent of the victim child is totally immaterial.
Hence | find no force in the submission made by the
learned defence counsel.
8|Page

21. In such a case court can convict the accused on

the sole evidence of the victim child if it inspires the
confidence of the court. In this regard | would like to refer
to the case of Narender Kumar v. State (NCT of Delhi)
reported in “ (2012) 7 SCC 171” and its relevant paragraph
is re-produced below:-
“20. It is a settled legal proposition that once the
statement of the prosecutrix inspires confidence and is
accepted by the court as such, conviction can be based
only on the solitary evidence of the prosecutrix and no
corroboration would be required unless there are
compelling reasons which necessitate the court for
corroboration of her statement. Corroboration of testimony
of the prosecutrix as a condition for judicial reliance is not
a requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under the
given facts and circumstances. Minor contradictions or
insignificant discrepancies should not be a ground for
throwing out an otherwise reliable prosecution case.”

22. The victim child marked as PW-8 has clearly
stated in her testimony that on the night of occurrence the
accused entered into their house while other family
members were talking by sitting in the courtyard and
caught hold of her waist and also dragged her towards his
body. The accused kissed her and pressed her breasts. Her
statement was got recorded in the court during
investigation. Ext-5 is the said statement which shows that
the accused person used to come their house and to hold
her by her waist and kiss her. It also shows that the
accused person was made brother of her mother by
putting “Bhai tika” and that the accused threatened her
that he would kill her parents if she disclosed the matter to
anybody.

23. Regarding credibility of the child witness it has
been observed by Hon'ble Apex Court in the case law of
Raj Kumar V State of MP reported in “ (2014) 5 SCC
353” thus:-“ Evidence of child witness must be evaluated
more carefully and with greater circumspection because a
child is susceptible to be swayed by what others tell him.”
Similarly the Hon'ble Apex Court has also observed in case
of Alagupandi V State of TN reported in “ (2012) 10
SCC 451” thus:-“ While assessing evidence of child
witness, court must carefully observe his/her demeanour
9|Page

to eliminate likelihood of tutoring. Conviction can be
allowed to stand without any corroboration but as a rule of
prudence it is always desirable to seek corroboration of
such evidence from other reliable evidence on record.

24. Taking all aspects into consideration including
afore said observation | find no way to disbelieve the
evidence of the victim child.

25. Under section 29 of the POCSO Act, 2012 the
court can draw presumption that the accused person was
involved in the occurrence in question if the defence fails
to prove contrary to the fact where upon the prosecution
relies. The said section reads thus:-“29. Presumption as
to certain offences.-Where a person is prosecuted for
committing or abetting or attenuating to commit any
offence under sections 3,5,7 and section 9 of this Act, the
Special Court shall presume, that such person § has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence,
as the case may be unless the contrary is proved.” In the
instant case the defence has only taken plea of denial of
“sexual assault” towards the victim child. In the instant
case the defence the defence has failed to bring the
contrary to the prosecution version.

26. The section 8 of the POCSO Act relates to
punishment for penetrative sexual assault which reads
thus:-

“8. Punishment for sexual assault’ .-Whoever,
commits sexual assault, shall be punished’ with
imprisonment of either description for a term which shall
not be less than three years but which may extend to five
years, and Shall also be liable to fine.”

27. It is evident that till day of the night of
occurrence, excess of the accused to the house of the
informant was permissible. There is no creditable evidence
showing that the accused entered in to the house of the
informant in foul way. From the evidence of victim child
marked as PW-8 it has became crystal clear that the
accused kissed her and pressed her breasts. In view of the
discussion made above | find that the prosecution has
10| Page

succeeded in establishing its case under section 8 of the
POCSO Act only.

Order

28. In the result, | find the accused person Ali
Hussain guilty under section 8 of the POCSO Act and
therefore he is convicted.

29. On the Point of Sentence the accused person is
heard and to that effect his statement is recorded. It is
found that the accused is a driver and a married person
and that he is only earning member of his family consisting
of a 12 year old child and his wife. It has been submitted
by the learned defence counsel that the accused person
deserves to be punished leniently as it was his first
offence. He has further more submitted that presence of
the accused person in his family is highly necessary as he
is the only earning member. On the other the learned PP
appearing on behalf of State of Assam has submitted that
it is not fit case where in leniency in sentencing the
accused person can be extended by drawing my attention
to circumstances under which this legislation came into
existence. He has further submitted that the accused
deserves to be exemplarily punished. It is a legislation for
the protection of the child from the sexual offences
because previously such offences were dealt by various
provisions of Indian Penal Code, which were not proving to
be effective. Tears and silence are memories of many
children who are sexually abused. Child sexual abuse has
become an epidemic which is spreading all over the
society either higher class or, lower class and attacking the
younger ones. Pain and tissue injury can heal with the
passage of time, but psychological and medical
consequences still leave scars on individual life.

30. The alleged occurrence took place in the house of
the informant. The instant case has proved that even the
female child is not safe in their own house. It is evident
that the accused person committed the alleged sexual
assault upon the victim child in cool brain in a planned
manner.

31. In Surjit Singh Vs. Nahara Ram and others
(2004)6 SCC 513=AIR 2004 SC 4122 it was held “The
law regulates social interests, arbitrates conflicting claims
11|Page

and demands. Security of persons and property of the
people is an essential function of the State. It could be
achieved through’ instrumentality of criminal law.
Undoubtedly there is a cross-cultural conflict where living
law must find answer to new challenges and the courts are
required to mould the sentencing system to meet the
challenges. The contagion of lawlessness would undermine
social order and lay it in ruins. Protection of society and
stamping out criminal proclivity must be the object of law
which must be achieved by imposing appropriate
sentence. Therefore, laws as a corner stone of the edifice
of ‘order’ should meet the challenges confronting the
society. In operating the sentencing system, law should
adopt the corrective machinery or the deterrence based on
factual matrix. Therefore, undue sympathy to impose
inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice
system to undermine the public system in the efficacy of
law and society could not long.”

32. Taking all aspects into consideration | find no
force in the submission put forwarded by the learned
defence counsel to little extent. Accordingly | do hereby
order the accused person to suffer RI of 3 (Three) years
and to pay fine of Rs. 1000/- i/d SI of 1(One) month. Set off
earlier detention period. Let the fine money be paid to the
informant if realized. Let certified copy of the Judgment
and order be supplied to the accused person at free of
cost. Let a copy of the Judgment be sent to the District
Magistrate, Karbi Anglong, in terms of section 365 of the
CrPC.

33. No recommendation for the award of the
compensation is passed in favour of the victim.

34. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

Sas Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this
07" August, 2018 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.
12|Page

Dictated and Corrected by me

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS )
Judge, Special Court Judge, Special Court
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi Anglong,
Assam

The prosecution examined:-
PW-1 Smt. Dipa Sunar

PW-2 Shri Prem Sunar

PW-3 Shri John Lotha

PW-4 Smt. Sunu Tamang
PW-5 Shri Dorjee Lama
PW-6- Shri Janak Rai

PW-7 -Dr. Mercy Rongpharipi.
PW-8 Miss Sushmita Sonar

Pa aw Swe P

The prosecution exhibited:

Ext-1 is Ejahar

Ext-2 is Seizure list.

Ext-3 is Zimanama

Ext-4 is Medical Examination Report
Ext-5 is Victim Statement.

Defence examined & exhibited: Nil.

Judge, Special Court
Diphu, Karbi Anglong,
Assam
