Page 1 of 6

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, AT DIBRUGARH ::
Present : Mrs. S.P. Khaund,
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.
PCSO Case No. 30 of 2016

Under Section 366 of IPC read with Section 4 of POSCO Act.

State
-Versus-
Sri Jaga Nath Mech ............. Accused person.
Appearance :
For the State : Smti. S. Akhtar, Ld. Addl. P.P.
For the accused : Sri M.P Todi Ld. Defence Counsel.

Date of evidence recorded : 6.5.17, 7.6.17.

Date of argument heard : 7.06.17.
Date of judgment : 7.06.17.
UDGMENT
1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 12.4.16 at about 9 a.m,

Jaga Nath Mech ( hereinafter the accused) enticed the victim '‘X',
promising her to marry and eloped with her from the Digboi Duliajan
Road.

2. An ejahar to this effect was lodged by the victim's father, Sri
Pradip Saikia ( hereinafter the complainant), which was registered as
Joypur PS Case No.33/16, under Section 366 A of the Indian Penal
Code( IPC in short).

3. A.S.| Drishti Kumar Das was entrusted with the preliminary
investigation. The Investigating Officer ( 1.0 in short) swung into action
and recovered the victim and forwarded her for medical examination.
She was forwarded to the Magistrate for recording her statement under
Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure ( Cr.P.C in short). The 1.0
Page 2 of 6

went to the place of occurrence, prepared the sketch map. The |.O also
recorded the statements of the witnesses.

4. On finding prima-facie materials charge-sheet was lodged against
the accused under Section 366 A of the IPC read with Section 4 of
Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POSCO Act in
short).

5. On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished. After
hearing both the sides a formal charge under Section 366 of IPC was
framed and read over and explained to the accused. The accused
abjured the guilt with claimed innocence.

6. To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the
evidence of four (4) witnesses. On the circumstances arising against
him, the answers of the accused person to the questions under Section
313 of Cr.P.C. were that of total denial.

7. | have heard the arguments forwarded by the Learned Counsel for
both the sides.

8. Points for determination

(i) Whether on 12.04.16 the accused induced 'X' to go with him in order
that she may be seduced to illicit intercourse?

(ii) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the

victim 'X'?
9. Decision thereon and the reasons for the decision
The complainant Pradip Saikia testified as P.W.2 that he came to know

the accused person after the incident. During Bihu on 13.4.16, his
daughter Lahi Saikia went with her friends to Kenduguri Village at
Page 3 of 6

Joypur. She went with her friends to the accused person's house. At that
time the accused person's neighbour informed his wife about his
daughter's visit to the accused person's house.

Then, the police was also informed and the police apprehended the
accused with his daughter and took them to Joypur Police Station. He
was informed from the Joypur Police Station about the incident. Then, he
was asked by the police to lodge an FIR as his daughter was recovered
from the accused person's house. Exhibit 1 is the ejahar and Exhibit 1(1)
is his signature. The police forwarded his daughter for medical
examination and also before the Magistrate for recording her statement.
At present his daughter is 20 years.

10. The complainant's testimony does not at all implicate that the
accused is complicit and there is no evidence that the accused induced
the victim to go with him. There is no evidence of sexual assault on the

victim.

11. Similarly, the victim 'X' i.e. Smti. Lahi Saika testified as P.W.3 that
she knows the accused person. Last year, during Bohag Bihu, she went
to Joypur Kenduguri Village along with her friends. The accused person
was known to her and as his daughter was not well, she went to his
house for a visit. At that time, his wife was not at home. The accused
asked her to attend to his daughter who was not well as he wanted to go
out. So, she stayed back in the accused person's house to take care of
his daughter. When it was evening she returned to her friend's house.
On the next day in the morning she went to the accused person's house
as he requested her to visit him. Meanwhile, the accused person's wife
arrived and she informed the police on suspicion. The police came and
apprehended her and the accused person and took them to the Police
Station. Her father was informed from the Police Station and her father
went and lodged this case against the accused person. During
investigation the police recorded her statement and forwarded her to
the Magistrate for recording her statement and to the AMCH for medical
Page 4 of 6

examination. She refused the medical examination by the doctor. Exhibit
2 is her statement before the Magistrate and Exhibit 2(1) and Exhibit
2(2) are her signatures.

12. When the victim herself has not implicated the accused, this
case is without a substratum. The Learned PP has submitted in her
argument that the victim has stated before the Magistrate that there
was physical relationship between the accused and the victim. Exhibit 2
is the statement of the victim and the Exhibit 2(1) and 2(2) are her

signatures.

13. At this juncture it is apt to mention that the victim has stated
that she is 20 years and the alleged incident took place last year which
implies that the victim was 19 years at that time. Her father has also
testified as PW.2 that the victim is 20 years at present. When the victim
has not incriminated the accused that he has committed sexual assault
against her will and without her consent, the benefit of doubt goes to
the accused person.

14. The PW.1 Sri Binon Mech is a neighbour of the accused person. He
testified that the complainant and the victim are not known to him. He
did not have any knowledge about the incident.

15. Similarly, BW.4 Sri Shantanu Bora testified that he did not have
any knowledge about the incident in his testimony.

16. Apart from this allegation there is no evidence against the
accused.

17. Culling out the evidence, it is held that the victim herself did not
implicate that the accused is complicit. There is no evidence that the
accused induced her to go with him and _ forcefully committed
penetrative sexual assault on her. The other witnesses did not implicate
Page 5 of 6

the accused at all. The contents of the FIR is contrary to the testimony
of the witness P.W.2.

18. In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that the
prosecution has failed to prove beyond all reasonable doubt that the
accused kidnapped the victim and induced her to go with him and
committed penetrative sexual assault upon her. The accused Jaga Nath
Mech is acquitted from the charges under Section 366 of IPC read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act on benefit of doubt and is set at liberty
forthwith.

19. Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open court on
the 7" day of June, 2017.

(Smti.S.P. Knhaund),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.
Page 6 of 6

APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses
PW-1 :-Sri Binon Mech,
PW-2 :- Sri Pradip Saikia (complainant).
PW-3 :- Smti. Lahi Saikia.
PW-4:- Sri Shantanu Bora.

Defence witnesses

Nil.
Court witnesses
Nil.
Exhibits
Ext-1 :- FIR.
Ext-1(1) : - Is the signature of the complainant Sri Pradip
Saikia.
Ext-2 :- Statement of the victim before the Magistrate.

Ext-2(1) & 2(2) :- Are the signatures of the victim Lahi Saikia.

(Smti.S.P. Knhaund),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.
