IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE : : TINSUKIA

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,

Special Judge,
Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 07 (T) of 2019
U/s.6 of POCSO Act

The State Of ASSAM... ..ccccecccccceecceeeeeeeeeeeceeeeuaeeseaeeeenaeeeenaeengneennanes
ee Complainant

- Versus -

Sri Rajesh Paharia,

S/o Late Arjun Mangra Paharia,
R/o Deohal T.E. Line No.12, PS. Bordubi,
District: Tinsukia (ASSAM)... ccccccceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeesueeeneneennanes

beees Accused

Appearance:

State

Sri B.L. Agarwal,
Special Public ProSe@Cutor.............ccccceeeeeeee sees For the

Sri S. Sarma,
Defence COUNSE]..........cccececeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeueeeeees For the

Accused

dic

Date of Argument: 04.11.2019
Date of Judgment: 04.11.2019

J} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

The accused was in love with the 16 years old victim girl and

on the basis of the said fact, while she was alone in the house, the

1
accused had physical relationship with her, as a result of which the
victim became pregnant. It may be stated that the accused was
already married, having two children.

2. In the mean time, the mother of the victim girl came to know
about the pregnancy of her daughter, when she was three months
pregnant. Therefore, she immediately lodged an ejahar before
police alleging the aforesaid facts. During the period of
investigation, the victim girl was subjected to medical examination.
The doctor confirmed her pregnancy. The victim girl also gave a
statement u/s.164 Cr.P.C.

3. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
The only point for determination in this trial is as to whether
the accused had committed penetrative sexual assault upon the

victim girl.

4. DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

In order to prove the offence against the accused, the
prosecution side examined two witnesses, including the victim girl.
| have carefully gone through the evidence available with the
record. The defence plea is total denial.

5. Considering the nature of the offence, | shall first take up the
evidence of the victim girl. She has, this time, claimed to be 20
years old. She has stated that on a promise of marriage, the
accused had sexual intercourse with her, for which she became
pregnant and subsequently, he married her. The victim has stated
that she has already given birth to a male child. According to the
victim girl, she has been living with the accused at present.

6. The mother of the victim girl has also supported the evidence
of the victim girl. She has stated that now her daughter has married
the accused and she has been living with him as his married wife.
ds After going through the evidence of these two witnesses, |
find that the evidence failed to prove the most vital ingredients of
offence u/s.6 of the POCSO Act and it is the sexual intention. The
prosecution has failed to prove that the accused had criminally
sexually assaulted the victim girl. The accused and the victim girl
were in love. Therefore, they had sexual intercourse, for which the
victim became pregnant. In my considered opinion, the offence
u/s.6 of the POCSO Act has not been proved against the accused
beyond all reasonable doubt.

Oo R D E R

8. That being the position, the accused Rajesh Paharia is
found not guilty and accordingly, he is acquitted from this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 4"
day of November, 2019.
Dictated & corrected by me.

(P.J. Saikia)
Special Judge Special Judge
Tinsukia Tinsukia

A P PEN DI X
PROSECUTION WITNESSES
1. PW1 - Smti Mamoni Paharia

1. PW2 - Smti Monika Paharia

Special Judge
Tinsukia
