DISTRICT- BAKSA
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, BAKSA, MUSHALPUR

SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18
(u/s 4 of POCSO Act r/w section 506 of IPC)

State of Assam

-versus-

 

Karnelus Ekka@ Cornelius Ekka ........... Accused

Present- Smti. M.C. Bordoloi, M.A., L.L.B., (A.J.S.),
Judge Special Court, Baksa

Appearance:
Mr. Ranjit Chetri............. Public Prosecutor for the State
ABU! GathUra. cccssseescncees Advocate for the accused person
Date of charge: 31-10-18
Date of Evidence: 12-12-18, 07-02-19, 06-04-19, 30-05-19,
18-11-19
Statement recorded on: 26-07-19
Date of Argument: 21-01-2020, 13-02-2020
Date of judgment: 18-02-2020
6 JUDGMENT
\°" ov
\P\ co 6 a0 Prosecutrix lodged an ejahar with the Kumrikata Outpost on
pr at” 19.07.2017 alleging inter alia that on 11.07.2017 at about 10 am, her
oa uncle accused Karnelas Ekka proposed to take her to Bhutan for an

outing and accordingly took her in a four-wheeler to Sashipur and having
kept the vehicle there took her in a motorcycle to Bhutan Gate and ina
hotel at Bhutan offered her juice, having mixed the same with some
intoxicating substance, drinking which, she became unconscious and

Contd..
 

SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

waking up, found herself in the Sumo (four-wheeler) in the next morning
without any clothes on her body and also realized that the accused had
” oA raped her in her unconscious state .It was also alleged that when she
tried to raise a cry of alarm,after having woken up, the accused
threatened to end her life. Hence the ejahar.

Upon receipt of the ejahar, entry in the Kumrikata Outpost's
General Diary vide No. 281 dated 19.07.2017 was made and thereafter
the ejahar was forwarded to O/C Tamulpur P.S for registration of a case

 

under proper section of law. Upon receipt of the ejahar, the then O/C of
Tamulpur Police Station registered a case vide Tamulpur PS Case No.
209/19 u/s 4 of the POCSO Act and caused investigation of the case.
Upon completion of investigation, charge-sheet vide No.
101/17 dated 31.07.2017 was laid before the Ld. CJM Baksa which was
put up before the Hon’ble Sessions Judge Baksa who having taken
cognizance of the offence issued summons to the accused person.
Having secured the attendance of the accused person in the court,
Hon'ble Sessions Judge Baksa in compliance of the provisions of Section
207 Cr.PC furnished copies of the case to the accused Karnelas Ekka.
Having heard the Ld. Counsels of both sides and finding prima-facie
materials against the accused person u/s 4 of the POCSO Act R/W
Section 506 IPC, Hon’ble Sessions Judge Baksa vide order dated
31.10.18 framed a charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act R/W Section 506 IPC
against accused Karnelas Ekka and the charge on being read over and
explained to the accused, he abjured guilt and claimed trial.
Prosecution in order to prove the charge brought about against
(Wh 9° OF tne accused person examined as many as 6 numbers of witnesses
A {P02 © otlcluding the Investigating Officer.
oe wom The defence side cross examined all the prosecution witnesses
ve barring PW-5 and also adduced the evidence of one witness.
The statement of the accused person was recorded u/s 313
Cr.PC. In his statement u/s 313 Cr.PC, the accused pleaded complete
innocence and expressed his willingness to adduce evidence. The
accused in her statement u/s 313 CrPC averred that the victim girl at
first went to Sashipur Don Bosco and therefrom to Bhutan and that his

Contd..
 

SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

companion also went with them and that the victim girl on her own
consumed beer and thereafter they returned on bike from Bhutan.
* *, Accused denied having committed the alleged offence.

: It is worthwhile to mention herein that with the designation of
aa < ff the instant Court as Special Court for trial of cases under POCSO Act by
the Hon'ble Gauhati High Court , Guwahati vide notification dated

 

2.1.2020, the case record was transferred to the instant Court by the
Hon'ble Sessions Judge ,Baksa for disposal. Accordingly the arguments
were heard in this Court.
Arguments:

| have heard the arguments advanced by the Ld. Counsels of both
sides.

It needs mention herein that no Special Public Prosecutor has been
appointed at Baksa for conduct of cases under POCSO Act as mandated
by Section 32 of the Act but in the interest of speedy trial the
prosecution was allowed to be conducted by Ld Public Prosecutor
Baksa(Ld P.P for short hereinafter).

Ld. P.P Baksa submits that the prosecution has successfully proved
the guilt of the accused beyond all reasonable doubt for which the
accused is liable to be convicted. Ld. PP also submits that the offence
committed by the accused is a heinous one and the accused deserves to
be punished appropriately.

Per contra the Ld. Defence Counsel submits that the
prosecution has completely failed to establish the charge brought about
against the accused in the instant case. Ld. Counsel takes this court to
oo” Rection 4 of the POCSO Act and submits that to constitute an offence u/s

Rv. 04 of the POCSO Act penetration of the penis, or any organ of the

\+
\
§

40
o*

cP?
wy”

yo? 5 perpetrator is required and in the instant case there is no evidence that
oy ~ there was any kind of penetration of either the accused's penis ,or of
any object or any of his body part in the victim’s body. Hence the charge
u/s 4 of the POCSO Act completely fails.

Ld. Counsel also submits that the victim in the instant case is well
above the age of minority and is a completely matured girl who can go
on her own from one place to another, she having admittedly left her

Contd..
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

aunt’s place to pick up another girl to provide her some work at
Guwahati. Ld counsel submits that the victim was old enough to do
things on her own and had enough maturity to concoct a false story
_“, } against the accused person.

; Ld. Counsel also points out that there is a serious lapse in the
prosecution case as the vehicle in which the alleged rape had been

 

committed or the clothes of the victim or the accused had not been
seized and sent for chemical examination for which the alleged rape
cannot be held to have been committed by the accused person. Mere
fact of finding herself in a naked position would not be proof of alleged
rape.

Ld. Counsel also submits that the victim hails from a society where
consuming alcohol is not a taboo and that the victim drank alcohol on
her trip to Bhutan and had lost her senses but the accused did not take
advantage of the condition of the victim rather helped her and provided
her shelter in the house of some person and also asked her to dress
herself. Ld. Counsel submits that the story of the victim being one not
inspiring confidence, no conviction could be recorded on the basis of her
sole testimony.

| have given my anxious consideration to the valued
submission of the Ld. Counsels of both sides. | have also perused the
entire C/R meticulously. The point for determination that has arisen in
the instant case is given herein below:

>0
i\?° cor POINT FOR DETERMINATION:
<
Poe Cie
pe? 3 yh 1. Whether on the 11" day of July 2017 at about 8 am,
9
oe the accused Karnelas @ Cornelius Ekka at about 10 am

committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim
girl/informant girl at Bogajuli under Tamulpur P.S. ?

2. Whether on the same day, time and place, the accused
committed criminal intimidation by threatening the victim not to
raise halla for the alleged sexual assault upon her and thereby

committed offence punishable u/s 506 IPC.
Contd..
 

SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

My decision on the above points for determination is given
herein under.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:
To address the points for determination so framed it will be
worthwhile to peruse the evidence available on record and accordingly |

proceed to do so.

 

At the outset, the evidence of the victim informant is perused.

PW-1 the victim informant in her evidence stated that the

occurrence took place about one year back from the day of her deposing

in Court and that on the fateful day she was returning to Guwahati for

her work and she planned to pick up her friend Sushmita from Jamuguri

en-route Guwahati and that she met the accused at the Jamuguri bus

stand at about 9 am. She also stated that the accused insisted to

accompany him to Don Bosco Sashipur Hostel to meet some friends as

he would also go to Guwahati the next day and that initially she turned

down the accused’s proposal but later gave in to his persuasion and

accordingly reached Don Bosco Sashipur Hostel and thereafter she

expressed her intention to go to Jamuguri to pick up her friend when the

accused proposed to go to Bhutan for an outing, assuring to drop her at

her destination and accordingly she went with the accused to Bhutan on

a bike and at the border gate of Bhutan accused took her inside a hotel

and offered her a bottle of cold drink, consuming which she became

- unconscious and having regained her senses she found herself in a car in

? wf a naked condition in a vehicle belonging to the Don Bosco Hostel. PW-1

ae \ O° srbiso stated that she wanted to shout but the accused threatened her and

ee directed her to dress up and warned her not to disclose the same to

anybody and that the accused thereafter dropped her at the road at

Jamuguri. PW-1 also stated that she did not disclose the incident for two

days out of fear to anybody and thereafter she went to the house of her

aunt and on the next day she went to Guwahati with her friend and after

two days she reported the incident to her aunt who having discussed the

matter with her husband asked her to file the ejahar and accordingly she
filed the ejahar.

Contd..
SPL, POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

PW-1 identified the ejahar lodged by her as Ext-1 and her
signature thereon as Ext-1(1). She also identified her medical

3 \ examination report as Ext-2 and her signature thereon as Ext-2(1). PW-1

 

identified her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.PC as Ext-3 and her
signatures thereon as Ext-3(1) and Ext-3(5). She revealed that she was
15 years of age at the time of occurrence and accordingly identified her
birth certificate as Mat. Ext-1 and the seizure list vide which the same
was siezed as Ext-4 and her signature thereon as Ext-4(1).

In her cross-examination, PW-1 disclosed that she was
studying in Class-IX at Montfort High School, Guwahati at the time of the
alleged occurrence and that she was brought up at Snehalaya -an
orphanage and that she was a drop out after Class-IX. She disclosed
that she had friends at Snehalaya and on the fateful! day her friends from
Snehalaya had come to Don Bosco Sashipur for picnic and that on the
fateful day she went to meet her old friends from Snehalaya. She also
disclosed that her aunt and her friend Sushmita knew that she would
visit their home on the fateful day and that nobody went in her search
when she went missing on the fateful day.

PW-1 clarified further that she went with the accused alone
but at Bhutan she met another person who was accused's co-villager
and that the said person after having met the accused at the hotel left
the place early. She disclosed that she was an orphan, born at
Singramari and that after the death of her parents the sisters of
Snehalaya brought her up. She also disclosed that the house of the

(2 seaccused was adjacent to her house at Jamuguri.
>|

Oo .
eg co PW-1 denied the defence suggestion that she was 19 years of
ot » age at the time of occurrence and that she consumed liquor with the
oa person who accompanied the accused in the hotel, in absence of the

accused and that being under the influence of alcohol she took shelter in
the house of one Dhaba Ekka. She also denied the defence suggestion
that as there was a boundary dispute between her aunt Silbina Ekka and
the accused for a long time he filed the false case against the accused.
PW-2 Gobindo Rabha in his examination in chief stated that
the occurrence took place in the year 2017 and that on the fateful day

Contd..
 

 

SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

he went to Darangamela to take out money from the ATM and on the
relevant time he met the accused who asked him for some money to go
to Bhutan since his niece had come from Guwahati to visit Bhutan but
: 2 Ther failed to give any money to him whereupon the accused asked him
to accompany them to Bhutan. PW-2 further stated that the accused

went to Bhutan with his niece on a motorcycle and asked him to go there

 

and accordingly he went to Bhutan and thereafter at Bhutan he and the
accused as well as the girl went to a hotel where he consumed beer
while the accused gave a cold drink to the girl. PW-2 stated further that
accused had mixed some zin with the cold drink before giving the same
to the victim girl and that he had paid the bill amounting to Rs. 800/-
from his pocket and thereafter he left for his home.

In his cross-examination, PW-2 stated that he went to Bhutan
Gate on bike and therefrom he went inside Bhutan on foot. He disclosed
that himself and the accused consumed two bottles of beer while the girl
did not consume beer. He also disclosed that the accused had also
ordered zin. He remained steadfast in his evidence that the girl only
consumed cold drink with them and that the cold drink was mixed with
zin and that before leaving he found the victim girl in a normal condition.
Accused did not pressurize the victim girl to have her cold drink mixed
with zin.

PW-2 denied the defence suggestion that he omitted to state

Ls 0 before the police that the accused called him to Bhutan and asked him

= S oo Ra pay their hotel bill at Bhutan. He clarified further that the entry of
cy e™ vehicle to Bhutan is recorded at the check gate but the entry of human
ae we is not done so.

Se PW-3 Sillvina Ekka the aunt of the victim girl deposed that on
the fateful day the victim girl went to Jamuguri where she met the
accused and on the same day her sister- in- law called her in the evening
to report that the victim girl had gone to her home and accordingly she
went to her parental home to find the victim girl there and then the
victim girl reported to her that the accused took her and committed
rape on her person. PW-3 further stated that she sought the advice from
Adivaasi Student Union in connection with the alleged offence who

Contd..
 

 

SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

advised her to file the case and accordingly the case was filed. She
deposed that the victim girl was 15 years of age at the relevant time.

In her cross-examination PW-3 clarified that the house of the
accused was next to her house and that on the fateful day the victim
had left her house to go to Guwahati. She also disclosed that the victim
was found weeping at her parental home and that even on inquiry she
did not disclose anything and only on the next day the victim narrated
the incident to her. PW-3 denied the defence suggestion that the case
being a false case, the same was filed belatedly and that the victim
being her niece she had deposed falsely in her favour. PW-3
subsequently disclosed that the victim had narrated about the alleged
occurrence over phone form Guwahati.

PW-4 Teleshpore Kispotha deposed to the fact that the
accused met the victim girl at Jamuguri and took her to Sashipur at first
and thereafter to Bhutan and having mixed some intoxicating material in
a juice, offered the same to the victim girl at Bhutan who having drank
the same became unconscious and thereafter the accused took the
victim girl in an unconscious state to Bogajuli forest area and committed
rape on the victim girl and thereafter dropped the victim at Jamuguri
Chowk. PW-4 stated that the victim reported about the occurrence to his
wife over phone first who in turn informed him and accordingly he
informed the local students union and the gaonburah who sent them to

_ the police station and accordingly FIR was lodged. PW-4 disclosed that at
CY '_....the relevant time victim was 15 years of age and that police seized the

birth certificate of the victim vide Ext-4 being the seizure list in his
presence. PW-4 identified his signature on the seizure list as Ext-4(2). He
also stated that the victim was working as a domestic help in Guwahati
at the relevant time.

When put to cross-examination, PW-4 denied the defence
suggestion that he omitted to state before the police that the victim
narrated the incident to his wife over phone or that the accused dropped
the victim at Jamuguri Chowk on the fateful day. He clarified that the
victim did not report about the incident to him directly rather his wife
informed him about the occurrence and that after medical examination

Contd..
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

the doctor informed him about the presence of drugs in the body of the

  
 

> \, victim. He also denied the defence suggestion that the case was filed
: = ‘falsely against the accused as there was a boundary dispute between
the accused and the parental home of his wife.

PW-5 Dr. Dolly Gogoi deposed that on 20.07.2017 she
examined the victim girl on being escorted by WHG Prabita Das in
connection with Tamulpur PS Case No. 209/17 u/s 4 of the POCSO Act
and that the victim girl did not give her consent for medical examination.
She deposed further that X-ray was advised for age determination of the
victim and X-ray report was received and as per radiological evidence
the age of the victim is estimated above 19 years. PW-5 identified the
medical report as Ext-2 and her signature thereon as Ext-2(2) and Ext-
2(3).

PW-6 Munna Pachani- the Investigating Officer of the case
deposed that on 19.07.2017 he was posted as the I/C of Kumrikata OP
and on that day he received an ejahar lodged by the informant and
accordingly entered the receipt of the same in the OP’s General Diary
vide No. 281 dated 19.07.2017 and forwarded the ejahar to O/C
Tamulpur P.S for registration of a case under proper section of law. PW-6
identified the ejahar as Ext-1 and his signature thereon as Ext-1(2), the
signature of the then O/C of Tamulpur PS Upendranath Sarmah as Ext-
1(3), affixing the same at the time of endorsing him for investigating the
0 case. PW-6 deposed that during investigation he recorded the statement

3
le
yr wv motorcycle and a four-wheeler Sumo vehicle, seized the victim’s birth

2@
oe certificate and having found sufficient materials against the accused,

~~
7° oo of the victim and the witnesses, visited the place of occurrence,
\ x prepared the sketch map, arrested the accused, seized vehicles being a

arrested the accused and forwarded him to court, caused the recording
of victim’s statement u/s 164 Cr.PC, collected the victim’s medical report
and on completion of investigation submitted charge-sheet against the
accused. PW-6 identified the sketch map as Ext-5. His signature thereon
as Ext-5(1), the seizure list vide which the motorcycle was seized as Ext-
6, his signature thereon as Ext-6(1), the seizure list of the four-wheeler
vehicle as Ext-7, his signature thereon as Ext-7(1), the seizure list vide
Contd..
10
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

which victim’s birth certificate was seized as Ext-4 and his signature
thereon as Ext-4(3). He also identified the charge-sheet as Ext-8 and his
, “e.\ signature thereon as Ext-8(1).

- In his cross-examination, PW-6 disclosed that he did not visit
Bhutan during the course of investigation nor he examined any students
from Pan Bazaar Snehalaya who were at Don Bosco School Sashipur in

 

connection with the investigation of the case. PW-6 disclosed that the
Mat. Ext-1 was issued from the register office at Hengrabari, Guwahati
and that he did not verify the authenticity of the said exhibit. He
disclosed that the birth certificate of the victim was obtained after 13
years of her birth. He disclosed that he did not send the seized vehicles
for forensic test.

PW-6 confirmed the fact that PW-3 Silvina Ekka did not state
before him that she brought the victim girl to Kumrikata to go to
Jamuguri en-route Guwahati to her workplace and that on the same day
her sister- in- law called her in the evening informing her that the victim
girl had gone to her sister in law’s house. PW-6 also confirmed that PW-4
did not state before him that the victim had stated about the incident to
his wife. He disclosed that he did not take efforts to track the mobile
phone location during investigation.

DW-1 the defence witness in his examination- in- chief stated

that on the fateful day at about 3 pm the accused brought the girl to his
Ger ws house and requested him to provide shelter to the girl and that
a CF srthereatter the accused left his home and after half an hour the said girl
ye? we also left his house on foot. He further stated that he found the girl in a
normal condition.

In her cross-examination she disclosed that she did not have
any knowledge regarding the visit of the accused to Bhutan with the girl
and the alleged rape on the person of the victim by the accused. She
clarified that she did not know the victim girl in person.

Now having perused the evidence available on record let me
first take a cursory glance at the POCSO Act more particularly Section-3

which defines the sexual penetrative assault.

Contd..
11
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

Penetrative sexual assault- A person is said to commit

  
 
 
 

“penetrative sexual assault” if-

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina,
outh, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body,
not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra, or anus of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to
cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of the body
of the child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of
the child or makes the child to do so to such person or any other person.

Now having gone into what constitutes penetrative sexual
assault which is punishable u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, when the evidence
on record is perused it is seen that there were no eye-witnesses to the
alleged occurrence of rape. The scene of the crime is that of four-
wheeler vehicle which had been reportedly seized by the Investigating
Officer during investigation vide Ext-7. It is in the evidence of the PW-1
the victim/prosecutrix that the accused took her from Jamuguri Chawk to
Sashipur Don Bosco School thereafter from there to Bhutan. The accused
is known to the victim girl is abundantly clear from the evidence on

5 record. PW-3 the victim’s aunt, PW-4 the victim’s uncle disclosed that the
Woo ace is the boundary man of the PW-3’s parental home and that the
| “he accused is known to the victim. It is in the victim's evidence that she had

2
»e,™ on the fateful day gone to Jamuguri Chawk and therefrom the accused
ee" offered to take her to Don Bosco Sashipur and from there to Bhutan. The

accused also in his statement u/s 313 Cr.PC admitted having taken the
prosecutrix with him to Don Bosco Sashipur and from there to Bhutan for
an outing. The fact of the victim girl going with the accused on
the fateful day from Jamuguri Chowk to Don Bosco Sashipur is
believable for the fact that the victim girl having known the
accused and addressing the accused as an uncle there is every |

Contd..
 

12
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

likelihood that on his insistence the victim accompanied him
moreso when she had friends at the Don Bosco Sashipur Hostel, as the
‘ te said friends reportedly had come over to Don Bosco Sashipur from
| Guwahati. The unchallenged evidence of the PW-1 and the admission of
the accused in his statement u/s 313 Cr.PC proves the fact that the
accused had taken the victim girl to Don Bosco Sashipur at first . The

 

defence argument that the story of the prosecutrix is not believable for
the fact that she being destined to go to Guwahati would not take a
different route and go to Jamuguri instead is not acceptable. The
argument that none examination of the victim’s friend who was
supposed to accompany the victim girl to Guwahati is fatal and strikes at
the very root of the prosecution version is also not acceptable in the
face of the above overwhelming evidence of the PW1.

Now PW-1 had also stated that form Don Bosco Sashipur the
accused offered to take her to Bhutan. PW-3 also testified in respect of
the accused taking the victim girl whom he presented as his niece to
him, to Bhutan in a motorcycle and that he had also seen the victim girl
with the accused at Bhutan and that the three of them had drinks at a
hotel in Bhutan. This evidence of PW-3 remained unrebutted. PW-3
remained steadfast in his evidence that the victim had cold drink which
was mixed with zin (a kind of alcoholic beverage) at the hotel at Bhutan.
Defence could not elicit anything to show that PW-3 was deposing falsely

against the accused in respect the presence of the accused and the
(eve oo oo yom girl at Bhutan. The evidence of PW-1 and the PW-3 along with the

x
nts co revelation of the accused in his statement u/s 313 Cr.PC leads this court
Ro ye” to conclude that the accused had taken the victim girl from Don Bosco
nae Sashipur to Bhutan on a bike.

Now it is required to be seen whether the alleged penetrative
sexual intercourse had being committed by the accused or not.

PW-1 in her evidence stated that she found herself in a naked
condition inside a vehicle at Bogajuli forest area and after having woken
up realized that she was raped by the accused and that the accused
threatened to kill her if she raised any cry of alarm or reported about the
occurrence to any person.

Contd..
13
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

 
   

- RSE PW-5 the Medical Officer disclosed the fact that the victim had not
f 2s ae nn oe - permitted her examination in connection with the alleged sexual assault.
, -’. Therefore the medical evidence is completely silent in respect of any
injuries sustained by the victim girl in the alleged sexual attack on her
person.

What remains is only the evidence of the prosecutrix in

 

respect of her sexual assault. PW-1 had categorically stated that she

found herself in a naked condition inside a vehicle and she realized that

she had been raped. PW-1 failed to state what situation led her to

conclude and realize that she had been raped by the accused person.

Though it may happen that in a state of unconscious if a victim had been

ravished by someone, she would not know all the acts of rape committed

on her by the perpetrator but after regaining consciousness the victim

would be able to tell what led her to conclude that she had been

ravished. The failure of the Investigating Officer to send the vehicle for a

chemical examination to detect the presence of spermatozoa etc in the

alleged vehicle is a dent in the prosecution version apparently. The

version of the PW1 that it was her realization that she had been raped

has not been clarified by the victim clearly. But that she was found in a

naked condition inside the vehicle could not be dislodged by the defence

in her cross-examination. The non-allowing of the victim’s medical

(v examination can be taken as a victim’s conduct u/s 8 of the Evidence Act
>. 20 os leading this court to infer that the alleged rape on her person or that she

\P\ cos x ‘aOhiad been violated had not actually taken place ;but as said earlier that

pe NN she was found in a naked condition in the vehicle and that accused was
. 2
oo" also present at the said place could not be dislodged by the defence. The

evidence of DW1 to the effect that accused brought the victim girl to her
place also is a link in the chain of evidence that the accused after having
met the victim girl at Jamuguri Chowk brought her to Don Bosco
Sashipur and thereafter to Bhutan and therefrom to her house that is the
house of DW-1. Apparently the victim girl was all along in the company
of the accused.
The victim girl was last seen in the company of the accused as
per the defence witness as well. PW-3 testified in respect of victim’s
Contd..
 

14
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18
company with the accused at Bhutan and DW-1 confirmed the fact that

the victim girl was also with the accused before parting company
therefrom. So the alleged act of sexual assault if done can only be done
by the accused and none others.

Now coming back again to the evidence of PW-1 it is seen that she
had in her evidence stated that she went to the house of her aunt and
on the next day she went to Guwahati with Sushmita and after two days

 

she reported the incident to her aunt. PW-3 and PW-4 also stated in their
respective evidence that the victim girl on the evening of the fateful day
went to PW3's sister- in- law’s house and that on getting the said
information of the arrival of the victim there, PW3 went to Jamuguri to
find the victim girl at her parental house and that the victim girl
reported about the act of accused taking her and committing rape on
her. In her cross-examination she clarified that the victim did not
disclose anything to her rather the victim on the next day disclosed the
incident to her and after knowing the incident she allowed the victim to
go to Guwahati and that she had reached Jamuguri Chawk at about 6 pm
on the fateful day. PW-3 clarified later on that the victim had reported
about the incident over phone from Guwahati. PW-4 also deposed that
he learnt about the alleged occurrence from his wife who was informed
by the victim over phone from Guwahati .That the victim girl did not
disclose about the occurrence to the PW-3(aunt) on the very day is
confirmed by the victim as well as PW-3 for she herself had confirmed in
her cross-examination that even on inquiry victim did not disclose the
(ty 20? gs incident to her on the fateful day. The defence argument that the
ae © gorevidence in respect of the timing of reporting by the victim to PW-3,
or ay” being not in harmony, doubt arises as to the veracity of the occurrence
rae itself. Ld. Counsel submits that had the occurrence being a true one the
victim girl could have reported about the same immediately to her aunt
on meeting her. But at this juncture it must be borne in mind that the
offence which is under trial herein is the offence relating to the alleged
sexual assault of a girl. Various factors come into play, at the time of the
victim’s disclosure about a incident of the sexual assault on her person.
Apparently the victim girl is an orphan. The consideration that she would
not be given an ear if she narrated the sexual assault on her person to
Contd..
15
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

her aunt may also be one of the factor which made her withhold the
information back from the aunt at first. The mental state of the victim
must also be taken into consideration. The feeling which might have not
: , allowed her to make any disclosure at first cannot be loose sight of. The
_ | accused is the victim’s acquaintance and uncle .The feeling that such a
person had done the overt act and the necessity to report about the

 

accused uncle and weighing the twin factors and thereafter deciding
which weighed more might have taken time for which the disclosure had
been made subsequently and not immediately on meeting the aunt is
possible. The defence arguments therefore does not hold water. PW-3 at
first stating that she allowed the victim girl to go to Guwahati after
knowing the incident and subsequently stating that she learnt about the
occurrence from the victim over phone from Guwahati cannot be held to
be mutually destructive evidence as it must be remembered that this
court is dealing with evidence of witnesses who are not of urban areas
rather is one belonging to the tea garden community. At this juncture the
case of Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade Vs. State of Maharashtra
reported in (1973) 2 SCC 793 can be pressed into service wherein
Hon’ble Supreme Court held that ‘the too sophisticated approaches
familiar in courts based on unreal assumptions about human conduct

cannot obviously be applied to those given to the lethargic ways of our

villages. When scanning the evidence of the various witnesses we have

Reo to inform ourselves that variances on the fringes, discrepancies in

cs S* petals: contradictions in narrations and embellishments in inessential

oO. oe parts cannot militate against the veracity of the core of the testimony

cS provided there is the impress of truth and conformity to probability in
ve the substantial fabric of testimony delivered’.

Again the case of Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai vs.
State of Gujarat reported in (1983) 3 SCC 217 can be successfully
referred to. Herein the Hon’ble Supreme court held as herein under-

“We do not consider it appropriate or permissible to enter
upon a reappraisal or reappreciation of the evidence in the context of
the minor discrepancies painstakingly highlighted by learned Counsel for

Contd..
16
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

the appellant. Over much importance cannot be attached to minor
discrepancies. The reasons are obvious:
(1) By and large a witness cannot be expected to possess a

a : photographic memory and to recall the details of an incident. It is not as

  

if a video tape is replayed on the mental screen.

(2) Ordinarily it so happens that a witness is overtaken by events. The
witness would not have anticipated the occurrence which so often has
an element of surprised. The [pic] mental faculties therefore cannot be
expected to be attuned to absorb the details.

(3)The powers of observation differ from person to person. What one
may notice, another may not. An object or movement might emboss its
image on one person's mind, whereas it might go unnoticed on the part
of another.

(4) By and large people cannot accurately recall a conversation and
reproduce the very words used by them or heard by them. They can only
recall the main purport of the conversation. It is unrealistic to expect a
witness to be a human tape-recorded.

(5) In regard to exact time of an incident, or the time duration of an
occurrence, usually, people make their estimates by guess-work on the
spur of the moment at the time of interrogation. And one cannot expect
people to make very precise or reliable estimates in such matters. Again,
it depends on the time-sense of individuals which varies from person to
person.

(6) Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall accurately the

0 . . . . .
\as oo SP auenGe of events which takes place in rapid succession or in a short

y. . Lg .
eo” time span. A witness is liable to get confused, or mixed up when

interrogated later on.
(7) A witness, though wholly truthful, is liable to be overawed by the
court atmosphere and the piercing cross-examination made by counsel
and out of nervousness mix up facts, get confused regarding sequence
of events, or fill up details from imagination on the spur of the moment.
The sub- conscious mind of the witness sometimes so operates on
account of the fear of looking foolish or being disbelieved though the
witness is giving a truthful and honest account of the occurrence

Contd..
 

17
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

witnessed by him- Perhaps it is a sort of a psychological defence
mechanism activated on the spur of the moment.”

Again the witnesses who are belonging to not so modern

« * community over passage of time might forget the chronology of the

- 1 events of reporting as held by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of

 

Nes

@
yew
oe

a o®

Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai(supra). The PW3's evidence that she was
reported about the occurrence and PW-1 confirming the fact of reporting
of the incident of PW-3 are corroborating its other and it can be well
concluded that victim had reported the incident to PW-3 and thereafter
victim had filed the case with the police.

Defence at this juncture has argued that the accused had
been falsely implicated the accused over a grudge in respect of
boundary dispute with the PW-3’s parental home. This plea though
taken, could not be probalized by defence by leading cogent evidence.
Rather the act of accompanying of the accused by the victim from the
Jamuguri Chowk to Don Bosco Sashipur and therefrom to Bhutan
contradicts the defence case that the victim held out grudge against the
accused person over the issue of boundary dispute with her aunt. Had
there been a grudge over a boundary dispute as projected by defence,
the victim girl would not have accompanied the accused at the very first
instance rather her accompanying the accused on his insistence
discloses that she knew the accused and went in his company, having
known him.

Again defence disclosed that the case is false one as the
s psiahar had been lodged belatedly after 8 days. From the perusal of Ext-1,
it is clear that the alleged occurrence took place on 11.07.2017 while the
ejahar was lodged belatedly on 19.07.2017. Apparently there is delay of
8 days but as stated earlier this court is in seisin of a trial of an alleged
act of sexual assault by the accused person. The victim has to muster
much courage to report the alleged assault on her person first to her
family and then to the police, especially in the Indian society where
much taboo is attached to the victim of a sexual assault. The society
instead of feeling the pain of the victim looks down upon the victim and
this fact at most times leads the victim to withhold back information to

Contd..
 

18
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

family or to the police. Therefore in such situation, the delay of reporting
cannot be held to be fatal to the prosecution case. The defence
arguments cannot be sustained in this count as well.

Now coming to the point of minority of the victim girl it is seen
that defence has disputed that the instant case is not triable by the
Special Court as the victim is well above the age of majority. Ld. Counsel
had taken this court to Ext-2 which is the victim’s medical report wherein

 

it has been mentioned that the victim’s age from the radiological point
of view is above the age of 19 years but though there is a mention in
Ext-2 that X-ray for the victim’s age determination was advised but the
said medical report viz Ext2 is without the X-ray film. PW-5 failed to
prove the basis on which the victim's radiological report had been
prepared. Now coming to the birth certificate which is the Mat. Ext-1
which is available on record it is seen that the victim as per the birth
certificate was born on 22.02.2002 and date of issuance of the same was
27.04.2015. Defence has also disputed the genuineness of Mat. Ext-1 on
the ground that same was issued after 13 years of the birth of the victim
girl. Though defence had disputed Mat. Ext-1 on the basis of delayed
issuance but has failed to show that it was otherwise a forged document.
Birth certificate issued by a competent authority is to be considered a
genuine one unless, on the face of it found to be a forged document. The
victim girl belonging from the tea garden community(Adivaasi) also an
orphan has been brought up at "Snehalaya" an orphan house. Defence
(0 has not disputed the upbringing of the victim girl at "Snehalaya".
3 «a Members of the Adivaasi community do not know the requirements of
av oe eosbecuring birth certificate of their wards at the time of their birth. In the
or ae instant case the victim being an orphan ,this formality all the more was
a ignored. The said victim though was born at Singramari but her
upbringing being done at Snehalaya and the authorities concerned at
Snehalaya knowing the importance of possession of a birth certificate for
future reference had applied for the victim’s birth certificate and
accordingly same was issued from the office of the Registrar of Births
and Deaths, Hengrabari Assam, the said office being the competent
authority to issue certificate in case of the births and deaths within the
Contd..
0
| \*
| on

ow wh

22
oo

»

 

30

19
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

jurisdiction of Guwahati. The delay in respect of securing the birth
certificate therefore cannot be held to be a ground for rejection of the
victim’s birth certificate more so when the medical report in respect of
victim’s age is not proved by cogent evidence. The birth certificate of
the victim girl being issued by competent authority under the seal of the
office, for the mere fact of securing the same belatedly,court is not
required to undertake a roving inquiry for the parties of checking the
genuineness of the said documents. Therefore the age of the victim as
per the Mat. Ext-1 being under the age of majority at the relevant time,
the submission of the Ld. Counsel for the accused with this court is not
having the jurisdiction to try the instant case is not acceptable.

Now going back to the evidence of PW-1 again it is seen that
the accused according to the victim had committed rape on her person
by stripping her naked. It is not in her evidence that she was stripped
naked in her inebriated or unconscious state for purposes of
pornography or for filming her naked rather it is in her evidence that she
realized that she was ravished by the accused. Now, for commission of
an offence under POCSO Act Section 29 of the Act comes into play which
envisages the presumption against the commission of offence by the
accused unless the contrary is proved. Again Section 30 of the Act also
provides for presumption of the culpable mental state of the accused for
commission of the alleged act. The victim had testified that she was
ravished by the accused person. Defence failed to show that enmity

existed between the accused and the relatives of the victim or that the

ov victim held out grudge against the accused rather the act of the accused
G ov"
en? stripping the victim leads this court to the presumption that the victim

had a culpable mental state to commit an offence of sexual assault on
the victim girl. Had there been no intention on his part, the victim would
not had been stripped naked. Even assuming the defence argument that
the victim girl had drank liquor ,it could not give license to the accused
to strip her naked. The very act of removing the wearing apparels of the
victim by the accused leads this court to conclude that the accused had
a culpable mental state and that he had no such mental state could not
be proved by defence. The presumption u/s 29 having shifted the burden

Contd..
20
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

on the accused to rebut the said presumption, the defence failing to
discharge the same it can be concluded that the accused had committed
the act of stripping naked the victim/prosecutrix. While stripping naked
the prosecutrix/victim sexual assault on the victim girl by the accused
has to be committed and thus it can be safely concluded that victim girl

 

was sexually assaulted by the accused only. However the alleged
ravishment of the victim/prosecutrix by the accused stands short of
being proved. Section 222 of the CrPC provides that when an accused Is
charged with a major offence and if the ingredients of major offence are
not proved, the accused can be convicted for minor offence if the
ingredients of minor offence are available. In the present case accused
was Charged u/s 4 of the POCSO Act but as stated above the ingredients
of section 4 of the POCSO Act could not be successfully proved by
prosecution but the ingredients of section 7 of the act have been
successfully proved by prosecution against the accused. Hence in view
of section 222 CrPC the accused can be convicted u/s 7 of the POCSO
Act punishable u/s 8 of the Act.

Now coming to the allegation that the accused had criminally
intimidated the victim girl, it is seen that PW-1 in her evidence had not
stated in clear terms as to how the accused threatened her. Therefore it
cannot be safely concluded that accused had criminally intimidated the
victim girl.

The’ points for determination stands answered
(hh, 92? accordingly against the accused person.

\» Prosecution has been able to prove beyond all reasonable
| oo doubt that accused had committed the offence of sexual assault on the
5? victim/prosecutrix. Charge u/s 506 IPC against accused fails however.

Accused is accordingly held guilty for commission of offence

u/s 7 of the POCSO Act punishable u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.
Heard the accused on the quantum of sentence. Accused submits that
he is the sole earning member of his family constituting of his wife,
himself and his child. Accused submits that if he goes behind bars his
family will face immense hardship. Accused prays that he may be
pardoned.

Contd..
 

21
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

  
 

, Heard the Id. Counsel for the accused who urged that a lenient
. oo * view may be taken as accused has a small child and the child would
“ t suffer in the absence of the accused.

Ld. RP. Baksa submits that offence being of a grave nature, a
strict view is necessary.

Heard. Perused the case record.

It is trite law that while deciding the quantum of sentence it is
required to strike a balance between the aggravating and mitigating
circumstances. Hence | proceed to scrutinize the aggravating and the
mitigating circumstances in the instant case.

The mitigating factors in the instant case are:

« Accused is a young man and has a family to support.
¢ Prosecution has not been able to prove any previous conviction of
the accused person.
The aggravating factors in the case are:
@ Accused has sexually assaulted a minor victim.
@ The sexual assault on the victim’s prosecutrix is not only to the
victim’s body but would continue to haunt all throughout her life.
@ Victim being a orphan her misery is cumulative.
@ Itis acrime against the society at large.
When the aggravating and the mitigating factors are weighed it is found
that the aggravating factors outweighs the mitigating factors. The
30 statute prescribes minimum punishment of 3 years of either description

6
2 oo and fine for commission of the offence of sexual assault which is

( Q% “pa Extendable upto 5 years.

So
se we” In my measured opinion in the facts and circumstances of the case the
minimum punishment of 3 years and fine appears justifiable and

accordingly | proceed to sentence the accused as below:

Order
Accused Karnelus Ekka is convicted u/s 7 of the POCSO Act.
For his conviction u/s 7 of the POCSO Act accused is sentenced to
suffer Rigorous Imprisonment(R.I.) for a period of 3 years and to pay a
fine of Rs. 10,000/-(Rs Ten Thousand only) in default to suffer Simple
Contd..
22

SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

   

As per section 357 A CrPC, and section 33(8) of the POCSO Act
victim compensation is permissible. In the facts circumstances of the

   

case, | am of the measured opinion that to mitigate the trauma suffered
by the victim an amount of Rs. 25,000/- (Rs. Twenty Five Thousand
only)can be paid to the victim prosecutrix as compensation. The ld.
Secretary DLSA, Baksa be asked to make payment of compensation as
determined to the victim after proper inquiry. Copy of the judgment be
sent to DLSA, Baksa for needful action.
Let a free copy of this judgment be furnished to the convict-

accused free of cost. |

Wo A copy of the judgment also be send to the District Magistrate

o eaksa | in view of the requirement of section 365 CrPC.
dry on™ Bail bond of the accused stands cancelled and surety discharged.
eS ww Issue jail commitment warrant.

eo
ie

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on the 18" day of

February, 2020.
49 af Aroaxao
(Smti. M.C. sorScrci) efa/

vudge Spi Court
Special Judge, Baksa, Mugftaigqr Mushatour

Dictated and corrected by me
Belo T efafao Ao

(Smti. M.C. Bordolol vage Sp: Court
Special Judge, Baksa, Slakseal M4ashaloir
23
SPL, POCSO CASE NO. 64/18

 

APPENDIX
“* Prosecution witnesses:
: PW1 Victim(name withheld)
<j PW2 Gobinda Rabha
~ PW3 Shilvina Ekka

PW4 Teleshpore Kisputta

PW5 Dr. Dolly Gogoi

PW6 Munna Pasani

Documents Exhibited by Prosecution :

Ext.1 Ejahar
Ext. 1(1) Signature of victim
Ext. 1(2) Signature of Munna Pasani
Ext. 1(3) Signature of Upendra Nath Sarma
Ext. 2 Victim’s medical report
Ext. 2(1) Signature of the victim
Ext.2(2) and Ext. 2(3) Signature of Dr. Dolly Gogoi
Ext. 3 Victim’s statement u/s 164 CrPC.
Ext.3(1) to Ext. 3(5) Signatures of victim’s
Ext. 4 Seizure list
Ext. 4(1) Signature of victim’s
Ext. 4(2) Signature of Teleshpore Kisputta
Ext.5 Sketch map of P.O.
Ext. 5(1) Signature of Munna Pasani
Ext.6 Seizure list vide which motor cycle seized
5° Ext. 6(1) Signature of Munna Pasani
\*" oo Ext.7 Seizure list vide which Sumo seized
| “laos geert. 7(1) Signature of Munna Pasani
ge we Ext. 8 Charge Sheet
» ys? Ext.8(1) Signature of Munna Pasani

Qe

Defence witnesses:

DW1 Shantira Ekka

Material exhibits:

Mat. Ext.1 Original birth certificate of victim

Court witnesses: Nil.

’

Oo (ef a/2020
(Smti. M.C. Bordoloyage Spi Coun
special judge, Basa Mushalour
