1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 05/2019
corresponding to GR Case No. 1201/2018
& Bokajan Police Station Case No.
246/2018

Under sections 448/354 R/W section 8 of
the POCSO Act

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Babul Das
Name of informant/complainant:|
Smti Monisha Dey
W/O Sri Chidam Dey
Village: Milanpur, Ward No-3, Bokajan
Town
PS: Bokajan
District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Babul Das
S/O Late Rajendra Chandra Das
Village: Milanpur, Ward No-3, Bokajan
Town
PS: Bokajan
District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.

Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor

For the defence : Mrs. Aparna Chakraborty
2|Page

Argument heard on : 28.08.2019

Date (s) fixed for Judgment : 06.09.2019/11.09.2019
N:B:- The Judgment could not be pronounced on the date

fixed as | was remained busy with urgent administrative

work.

l.

2.

UDGMENT

It is a case of criminal house trespass house and
sexual assault alleged to have been committed by
the accused person.

The prosecution case in brief is that on 14.11.2018
the informant named above lodged a written ejahar
with the O/C of Bokajan Police Station stating inter
alia that on the same at about 1:30 PM the accused
person entered into her house talked with her victim
daughter with filthy language by holding of her. On
receipt of the ejahar, O/C Bokajan Police Station
registered a case vide its Police Station case No.
246/2018 under section 354 of the IPC R/W section 8
of the POCSO Act. On completion of investigation, the
concerned investigating officer submitted the charge-
sheet under sections 448/354 of IPC read with section
8 of the POCSO Act against the accused person.
Hence the prosecution case has come up.

On completion of submission of charge sheet under
sections 448/354 of the IPC read with section 8 of the
POCSO Act against the accused, it was renumbered
as POCSO Case and issued process for appearance of
the accused person. On completion of appearance of
the accused person, copy was furnished to him. On
perusal of the case record along with case diary and
after hearing learned lawyers of both sides, | found
3|Page

ie

sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused
person committed the offences under sections 448 of
the IPC/8 POCSO Act. Accordingly, the charges were
framed. The particular of the offences charged was
duly read over and explained to the accused person
to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

. During trial, Prosecution has examined as many as 7

(Seven) witnesses including the informant and the
alleged victim. Statement of the accused person was
recorded under section 313 of CrPC. Defence has
examined 1 (One) witness. Plea of defence is of total
denial.

Points for determination are:

i) Whether the accused person. on
14.11.2018 at about 1:30 PM entered
into the house of the’ informant
situated at Bokajan Town Ward No.3
under Bokajan Police Station?

ii) Whether the accused person on
14.11.2018 at 1:30 PM at Bokajan
Town Ward No.3 under Bokajan Police
Station committed sexual assault to

the victim?

Decisions and reasons thereof:
4|Page

| have very carefully gone through verbal
arguments advanced by the learned counsels of both
sides as well as evidence on record. At the very
outset, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of
the accused person has contended that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case
against the accused person. On the other hand, the
learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the
aforesaid submission has submitted that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case
against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions, it
would be appropriate to give a glance at evidence on
record.

7. For attracting section 8 of the POCSO Act, the victim
needs to be a child. Child is defined in the section 2
(d) of the POCSO Act. According to the aforesaid
section, to be a child a person needs to complete 18
years. Ext-1 is the ejahar which is silent as to how old
was the victim at the time of occurrence. According
to PW-1 who is the mother of the victim, the victim
was 17 years 4 months at the time of occurrence and
that police seized birth certificate of the victim from
her vide Ext-2 which shows that a Photostat copy of
birth certificate issued by Registrar of Birth and
Death, Phok, Nagaland. It shows that her date of birth
is 09.04.2001 and it was issued in the year 2009.
First of all Photostat copy of the seized birth
certificate cannot be taken into consideration.

8. Ext-3 is medical report which shows that medical
officer examined the victim on 15.11.2018 and found
her age to be 16/17 years. PW-3 is a neighbourer of
5|Page

the informant who has clearly stated in his evidence
that at the time of occurrence the victim was about
18 years. According to the victim marked as PW-6, at
the time of occurrence she was 17 years. Ext-4 is the
statement of the victim recorded under section
wherein she stated that at the time of occurrence she
was 17 years and that she was reading in class IX
(Nine). No school certificate containing date of birth
of the victim has been submitted. Cross-examination
of mother of the victim marked as PW-1 indicates
that there is doubt that at the time of occurrence, the
victim was below 18 years. Ext-3 and evidence of PW-
5 the medical officer are found to be reliable. As per
the principle of margin of error the accused is entitled
to get benefit two years in the upper limit of the age
determined on the basis ossification test. According
to Ext-3, at the time of occurrence, the victim was 16
to 17 years old. Hence | have come to conclusion that
the victim was not a child. Accordingly it is held that
the section 8 of the POCSO Act is not attracted in the

instant case.

9. It has been submitted by the learned defence counsel
that the story projected by the informant is totally
false and concocted. She has further submitted that
it is quite impossible and unnatural that the
circumstances as revealed from the evidence on
record under which any normal or prudent person
takes courage to go for commission of the alleged
occurrence. It is evident that at the time of
occurrence the informant mother was washing cloth
near tube well which is near the PO house. It is also
evident that the uncle of the victim marked as PW-3
was working near the PO. According to PW-3, he
6|Page

10.

ll.

came to the PO seeing the accused to have pressed
breasts of the victim. It has become clear; the place
of occurrence was within visible distance of PW-3.
The victim has admitted in her cross-examination
that the PW-3 who is her uncle was working in his
house which is only 5/6 feet away from the PO.

It is evident that the accused is person of 69 years
old and that he had a grocery shop where from the
informant used to bring some articles on credit. There
is no dispute that the accused on relevant point of
time came to the house of the informant. According
to DW-1, she found the accused going to the house of
the informant and on being asked the accused
informed him that he was to the house of the
informant for realization of money from the informant
arisen from the articles taken by her on credit. Ext-5
is the sketch map of the PO which shows that near
the PO house only dwelling house of Sunia Mahato is
situated.

PW-3 has stated in his evidence that he saw the
accused person pressing the breasts of the victim. On
the other hand his stated recorded under section 161
of the CrPC is totally silent that he saw the accused
person pressing the breasts of the victim. It is also
evident that the accused had shop near the house of
the informant. Evidence of PW-2 who is_ the
neighbourer of the informant shows that hearing
shouting he came to the informant and found the
accused sitting in court yard of the informant with
some injuries in his person and on being asked the
uncle of the victim informed that he had assaulted
him (accused) as he tried to do foul with after
hugging her. PW-1 and PW-2 are hear saying
7|Page

witnesses in respect of pressing of breasts of the
victim by the accused. Now entire case lies on the
evidence of the victim. Ext-1 shows that the accused
person talked with the victim in filthy language which
was lodged by the informant. The victim marked as
PW-6 has stated in her deposition as well as in her
statement recorded under section 164 of the CrPC
that the accused person pressed her breasts while
she was cooking rice in kitchen entering there with
her knowledge. She has further stated that her
mother talked with the accused in their verandha
before she left for tube well. Evidence of the victim
clearly shows that the accused came to the house
informant with her knowledge.

12.There is no evidence on record showing that the
accused had knowledge that nearby the PO the uncle
was working. There is no dispute that the accused
person that the informant was in the campus of her
house. The defence version is that the informant to
avoid the payment this case was projected. It is
found that a different story was projected in the
ejahar marked as Ext-1. It is found that accused is a
person having age of 69 years old and that during
investigation he was in the jail hazot for a period of
more than 2 months. | find that the evidence of the

victim is not free from reasonable doubts.

ORDER

13.In the result, | find that the prosecution has failed to
prove its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubts. Hence on benefit of doubts, the
accused person Shri Babul Das is hereby acquitted
from the charges brought against him and let him set
8|Page

at liberty. Destroy the seized articles in due course of
Law. The bail bond shall be stood cancelled after 6

(Six) months.

14.Accordingly this case is disposed on contest.

L5. Given under hand and seal of this court today,
the 11° day of September, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi
Anglong.

Dictated and corrected

by me.
(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong,
Diphu.

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Smti Monisha Dey
PW2- Shri Hira Dey

PW3- Shri Kanai Dey

PW4- Shri Horo Kumar Das
PW5- Dr. Karik Kropi

PW6- Victim

PW7- Shri Satindra Lalung

Defence Witnesses:
9|Page

DW1- Smti Usha Chanda
Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Seizure List

Ext.3- Injury report

Ext.4- Statement of the victim
Ext.5- Sketch map of the PO
Ext.6- Charge Sheet

Defence Exhibited: Nil

Special Judge,
Diphu, Karbi Anglong,

Assam.
