SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE #: tii: CACHAR.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.8 of 2019
(U/S 366 IPC and Sec.4 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......ccccceseeeccceecssstessseeeessseeeees Complainant.
-Versus-

Kalajamun Rikiason aliaS Bikram. .........ccccccccceeeeees Accused.

Charge framed On tm.........cceceeceeceeesteeeeeeessseeeeeessneeeeeees 22.11.19

P.WS. GXAMINEC ON!-........eceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaeeeaees 14.2.2020

Argument heard On! ooo... ecccecceeessteeeeeeesesssseeeeeeeenees 14.2.2020.

Judgment pronounced and delivered on:-..........:0008 14.2.2020.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : Mr N. Nag, Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an
FIR with the Udharbond PS. stating the facts that on 3/1/19 at about 6
p.m. the informant had gone to market keeping her minor

daughter(victim ) in the house but when he returned he found her said
daughter missing. On query and search the informant came to know that
his minor victim daughter was kidnapped by the accused with the help of

other three FIR named accused persons from the house. When the
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/19

informant approached the co- accused persons who are mother and
brothers of accused to hand over the victim to the informant, they assured
as such but they did not at all hand over victim to the informant.
2. On receipt of the FIR, O/c Udharbond PS registered a regular
PS case vide Udharbond P.S. Case No.6 of 19 U/S 366/34 of IPC . Police
started investigation and during the course of investigation the statement
of the victim girl was recorded U/S 164 CrP.C. The investigating officer
visited the place of occurrence and prepared a rough sketch map etc. and
subsequently after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet only
against accused person U/S 366 of IPC r/w Sec.4 of POCSO Act.
3 As the offence is U/S 366 of IPC r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act
being exclusively triable by the Court of Special court , Id. CJM Cachar,
Silchar sent the case record to this court and subsequently in due course
after hearing both sides formal charge U/S 366 IPC and Section 4 of
POCSO Act was framed by this court against the accused person. The
charge having been read over and explained, the accused person pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried.
4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(1) Whether the accused person on 3/1/19 at about 6 p.m. at
Kashipur T.E. under Udharbond PS _ had kidnapped the victim, the daughter
of the informant with intent that she may be compelled to marry against
her will or knowing it to be likely that she will be compelled to marry
against her will or in order that she will be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse, as alleged?

(2) Whether the accused person committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim, as alleged ?
5. From the prosecution side as many as 2 witnesses i.e., the the

victim and the informant have been examined . On the submission of the Id.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/19

Special P.P. the evidence for the prosecution side is closed. As no
incriminating materials appears to be found against the accused during
evidence the recording of statement of the accused U/S 313 CrP.C. is
dispensed with.
6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have
also heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF
Pe Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused
person as mentioned in points for determination.
8. PW. 1, the victim deposed in her evidence that the occurrence
took place on 03.01.2019. She further deposed that she was in love affairs
with Kala Jamun Rikiason @ Bikram Rikiason. On that day, she called the
accused and the accused came and she voluntarily went with the accused
at 8.30 PM. The accused took her to Aizawl. She further deposed that she
stayed there with the accused for about one week and thereafter they
returned to Silchar and stayed for one night in a hotel and on the next day,
they went to Istampur Shiv bari and got married there. She further
deposed that she stayed with the accused as his wife. She further deposed
in her deposition that Udharbond police recovered her near Shiv Bari,
Istampur and kept her in Ujala Home for two days and thereafter she was
brought to Court where her statement U/S 164 CrP.C. was recorded. She
further deposed that she was taken to SMCH for her medical examination
but she refused to give consent for the same. She also deposed in her

deposition that at the time of occurrence she was aged about 19 years.

She stated in her cross examination that the accused did not kidnap
her and her father lodged the case as she went with the accused without

informing him.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/19

9. PW.2, Jugesh Goala, the informant of this case deposed in his
evidence that on 03.01.2019 his victim daughter, in his absence went with
the accused to Koltilla and as he did not find his daughter at home lodged
an FIR vide Ext. 2. Later on, police recovered his daughter and brought her
to Court where her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded. He further

depos+

ed in his evidence that at the time of occurrence, the age of his daughter

was above 18 years.

In his cross examination PW.2 stated that his victim daughter
reported him after her recovery that she voluntarily went with the accused.
PW.2 also came to know that victim had love affairs with the accused. After
the release of the accused from jail they gave the victim in marriage with
the accused. He also stated that presently his victim daughter is living with
the accused as his wife and PW.2 do not have any grievances against the
accused.

10. So, from the evidence of prime witnesses i.e. the victim PW.1
and the informant PW.2, it reveals they did not at all implicate the accused
in the alleged offence of crime. Rather it is cropped up from the evidences in
its entirety, that when the victim was major out of love affairs, voluntarily
went with the accused and subsequently her father i.e. the informant gave
her marriage with the accused socially and at present victim has been living

with the accused as his wife.

11. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/s 366 of IPC and Sec. 4
of POCSO Act against accused.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/19

12. In view of the above, accused person is not held guilty and
stands acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty
forthwith.

Bail bonds stand discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on
this the 14th day of February, 2020.

Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee, Stenographer
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 8 of 2019.

APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — Victim
PW. 2 — Jugesh Goala.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — statement of victim
Ext. - FIR.

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - _—iNIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
