IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE (F.T.C), LAKHIMPUR,
NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

PRESENT

Sri P.C. Kalita, A.J.S.,

Special Judge (F.T.C.),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Special (POCSO) Case No.113/2019.
( U/s- 341 of I.P.C., R/w- Section 8 of the POCSO Act)

State of Assam

-Versus-
Sri Markuj Bag ... Accused person.

APPEARANCE

For the State : Mr. M. Gogoi, Ld. Special P.P.

For the Accused : Mr. B.B. Gohain, Ld. Advocate.

Date of evidence : 05.12.2019, 06.12.2019, 07.12.2019 &
10.01.2020.

Argument heard on : 24.01.2020, 01.02.2020 & 06.02.2020.

Judgment delivered on: 11.02.2020.

JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, inter-alia, in brief, is that on
15.06.2019, the informant Smti. Berna Khalkho lodged an ejahar at
Bihpuria Police Station alleging that on that day, at about 4:00 PM,
while her victim daughter (P.W.1), aged 14 years, was going to her
maternal uncle’s house, situated of the same village, the accused person
Sri Markuj Bag, on the road in front of his house, wrongfully restrained
her victim daughter and tried to drag her (victim) away to his house

with intent to commit rape on her (victim).
2. On receipt of the ejahar, the O/C of Bihpuria PS.
registered a case, vide Bihpuria P.S. Case No.310/2019, dated
15.06.2019, u/s- 341/376/511 of IPC, and then the police conducted the
investigation of the case, and after completion of the investigation of
the case, ASI, Sri Dharmeswar Das has submitted the charge-sheet u/s-
341/376/511 of IPC, R/w- Section 8 of POCSO Act against the accused
person Sri Markuj Bag.

3. The case is received by this Court on transfer for disposal.
On appearance of the accused person before this Court, copy is
furnished to him. After hearing Ld. Advocates of both sides and
perusing the materials on record, charges u/s- 341 of IPC, R/w Section
8 of the POCSO Act are framed against the accused person Sri Markuj
Bag, the same are read over and explained to him to which he has
pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial prosecution has examined as many as
7(seven) witnesses. After closure of the prosecution witnesses, the
accused person is examined under section 313 of the Cr. P.C. The pleas
of the accused person are of total denial and he has declined to adduce

any defence evidence.

3. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

i) Whether the accused person, on or about 15.06.2019 at
about 4:00 p.m. at No.2 Borbali under Bihpuria P.S., wrongfully
restrained the victim, daughter of the informant Smti. Berna Khalkho,
on the road in front of your house, while she was going to her maternal
uncle’s house, and thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 341 of the IPC, as alleged?

ii) Whether the accused on the same date, time and place,
after restraining the victim girl, had committed sexual assault on her
person, and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 8
of the POCSO Act, as alleged?
DISCUSSIONS, DECISION AND REASONS ‘THEREOF:

 

6. I have carefully perused the evidence and the materials
available in the case record. Heard arguments advanced by the Ld.
Advocates of both sides. Now, let us examine the evidence on record to
decide the case at hand.

7. PW-1 (prosecutrix) stated that the informant Smti. Berna
Khalkho is her mother. She knows the accused person, who is her
relative, father’s elder brother. One day, about 5 months back, at about
4:00 PM, while she was going to her maternal uncle’s house, the
accused person on the road in front of his house, wrongfully restrained
her and dragged her away to his house by touching in her breast,
intending to commit rape on her. While she made hue and cry, her
mother arrived at the place of occurrence, and then the accused person
had fled away. Her mother took her back to her house. Police got her
medically examined and also got recorded her statement u/s- 164 of
Cr.P.C. Ext.1 is her statement recorded u/s- 164 of Cr.P.C. and Ext.1(1)
and Ext.1(2) are her signatures thereon.

8. PW.2, Smti. Berna Khalkho (informant), stated that the
victim (P.W.1) is her daughter. She knows the accused person, who is
the elder brother of her husband. One day, about 5 months back, at
about 4:00 PM, while her victim daughter was going to her (victim)
maternal uncle’s house, on the way, accused person made attempt to
commit rape on her victim daughter. Her victim daughter made hue and
cry and on hearing her cries she arrived at the place of occurrence, and
then the accused person fled away from the place of occurrence. On
being asked, her victim daughter told her that the accused person had
touched in her breast. For this, she lodged an ejahar at Bihpuria Police

Station. Ext.2 is the said ejahar and Ext.2(1) is her signature thereon.
Police got her victim daughter medically examined. Police recorded her
statement u/s- 161 of Cr.P.C.

9. PW.3, Smti. Meena Khalkho, stated that she knows the
informant and the informant’s victim daughter. She knows the accused
person also. Accused person is the elder brother of her husband. At this
stage, prosecution has declared hostile this witness.

10. PW.4, Iliash Kiskata, stated that he knows the informant
and her victim daughter. He also knows the accused person. One day,
about 5 months back, he heard that the accused person had committed
rape on the victim girl and for this, this case has been filed. One nearby
shopkeeper named Stephen, informed him about the incident. Police
recorded his statement u/s- 161 of Cr.P.C.

11. P.W.5, Pitar Khalkho @ Pitu, stated that he knows the
informant and her victim daughter. He knows the accused person also,
who is his nephew. One day, about 8 months back, while he was
working in his Basti land, he heard from one Iliash that the accused
person had committed rape on the victim girl and on the same day,
there was a quarrel between them. Police recorded his statement u/s-
161 of Cr.P.C. At this stage, prosecution has declared hostile this
witness.

12. P.W.6, Smti. Cheten Tirki, stated that the informant is her
daughter and the victim girl is her grand-daughter. She knows the
accused person. She could not remember the exact date of the incident.
On the day of occurrence, while she was returning home from his shop,
she had entered into the house of the informant and found the victim
girl sleeping. On being asked, the victim girl told her that while she
was going to her maternal uncle’s house, the accused person committed

rape on her.
13. PW-7, Sri Dharmeswar Das, A.S.I. of Police (1.0.), stated
that on 15.06.2019, he was working as an A.S.I. at Banderdewa Police
Out Post under Bihpuria Police Station and on that day one Smti.
Berna Khalkho lodged an ejahar at Bihpuria Police Station, which was
received and registered as Bihpuria Police Station Case No.310/2019,
u/s- 341/376/511 of I.P.C. by the then O/C of Bihpuria Police Station.
On receipt of the F.I.R., the then O/C of Bihpuria Police Station
entrusted him to investigate into the said case. Ext.2 is the F.I.R. and
Ext.2(1) is the signature of the informant Smti. Berna Khalkho, which
he can identify now. After entrustment, on the following day, he visited
the place of occurrence, examined the informant as well as the other
witnesses u/s- 161 of Cr.P.C. He prepared a rough sketch map of the
place of occurrence. Ext.3 is the said sketch map of the place of
occurrence and Ext.3(1) is his signature thereon. The victim girl was
examined by the police of Bihpuria Police Station and her statement
was recorded wu/s- 161 of Cr.P.C. Thereafter, the victim was sent to
Bihpuria CHC for getting her medically examined and thereupon, on
19.06.2019 he brought the victim before the Court wherein her
statement was recorded u/s- 164 of Cr.P.C. During the period of his
investigation, he has collected the medical examination report of the
victim girl from the concerned hospital. He has made several attempts
to arrest the accused Sri Markuj Bag, but he could not arrest him. On
18.07.2019, he got intimation from the Hon'ble Court that the accused
person had surrendered before the Court and he had already been sent
to the Jail hajot. After that, he visited to the Jail hajot and recorded the
statement of the accused person. After completion of the investigation
of the case, he found sufficient incriminating materials against the
accused person for his involvement in the commission of the alleged

offence. Accordingly, he has submitted the charge-sheet w/s-
341/376/511 of I.P.C., R/w- Section 8 of the POCSO Act against the
accused person. Ext.4 is the charge-sheet and Ext.4(1) is his signature

thereon.

Appreciation of evidence:
Offence w/s- 8 of the POCSO Act

Age of the victim
14. It is not in dispute that the victim (P.W.1) is a minor girl
below 18 years of age.
15. There is no eye-witness to see the occurrence.
16. Here, the victim (P.W.1) is the prime witness in the instant
case. Her deposition is that on the day of occurrence, at about 4:00
a.m., while she was going to her maternal uncle’s house, on the way,
accused person dragged her to his house by holding in her breast in
order to commit rape on her.

The victim girl in her statement recorded u/s- 164 of
Cr.P.C., inter alia, stated that the accused person tried to take away her
to his house by holding in her hands.

From the above, it is seen that the victim girl (P.W.1) in
the Court deposed that the accused person had dragged her away by
holding in her breast, whereas the victim, in her statement recorded u/s-
164 of Cr.P.C., stated that the accused person had dragged her away by
holding in her hands.

Thus, the victim girl has made different statements at
different points of time regarding holding of her on her body i.e. in the
breast and in the hands by the accused person.

17. On the other hands, the informant (P.W.2), who is the
mother of the victim (P.W.1) in the ejahar (Ext.1), stated that the
accused person attempted to take away her victim daughter to his house

by holding in her body in order to commit rape on her (victim).
18. Besides, there is evidence on record to show that the
incident occurred at about 4:00 PM on a public road nearby a shop, but
not seeing the alleged occurrence by anybody in spite of her (victim)
making hue and cry, creates doubts on the prosecution case.

So, the testimony of P.W.1 (victim) to the effect that on the
day of occurrence accused person by touching either in her breast or in
her hands, and dragged her in his house, is not found to be trustworthy
and reliable.

19. Though, the mother of the victim (P.W.2), on hearing hulla
arrived at the place of occurrence, but she did not witness the incident

of sexual assault as alleged by the victim. She is a hearsay witness only.

20. P.W.3 and P.W.5 have been declared hostile by the
prosecution.
21. P.W.4 is a nearby shop keeper, who during cross, stated a

different story. According to him, there was previous dispute between
the informant and the accused person. On the day of occurrence the
informant and her victim daughter had gone to the house of the accused
person and they assaulted the accused person, and therefore, to save
themselves, they have filed this case against the accused person. So, the
filing of this case by the informant, out of grudge, cannot be ruled out.
22. P.W.6, Smti. Cheten Tirki, stated that on being asked, the
victim girl stated that the accused person had committed rape on her
(victim), on the road, whereas, the victim (P.W.1) in her deposition
nowhere stated that she told Smti. Cheten Tirki (P.W.6) about the
incident of rape.

So, the version of P.W.6 is not reliable at all.
23. P.W.7 is the Investigating Officer (I/O).

(Offence u/s- 341 of I.P.C.)

24. There is no evidence on record to show that accused
person wrongfully restrained the victim (P.W.1) on the road, on her way
to her maternal uncle’s hosue.

25. In view of the above discussions and considering all
aspects, I hold that the prosecution has failed to prove the case u/s- 341
of IPC, R/w- Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused person
beyond all reasonable doubts. Hence, I acquit him from the said
offences on benefits of doubts.

26. The accused person is set at liberty forthwith.

27. Send a copy of this order to the Jail Authority, Lakhimpur,
North Lakhimpur, to do the needful.

28. The case is disposed of accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 11"

day of February, 2020.

(P.C. Kalita)
Special Judge (FTC),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Dictated & Corrected by me:

(P.C. Kalita)
Special Judge (FTC),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by me:
Sri Manish Kumar (Steno)
APPENDIX:

Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1- (Prosecutrix),

PW.2, Smti. Berna Khalkho (informant),
PW.3, Smti. Meena Khalkho,

PW.4, Iliash Kiskata,

P.W.5, Pitar Khalkho @ Pitu,

P.W.6, Cheten Tirki &

P.W.7, A.S.I., Sri Dharmeswar Das (I/O).

Prosecution exhibits:

Ext.1- Statement u/s- 164 of Cr.P.C.
Ext. 2- Ejahar.

Ext.3 — Sketch map.

Ext.4 — Charge-sheet.

Defence witnesses:
Nil.
Defence exhibits:
Nil
( P.C. Kalita)

Special Judge (F.T.C),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
