IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Bilasipara

Special (POCSO) Case No- 09 of 2019
u/s 366/376 Indian Penal Code

State of Assam

-Vs-
Ashraf Ali
eseees accused person

Date of framing charge ‘= 08-07-2019
Date of recording evidence :- 25-09-2019,

30-09-2019.
Date of Argument 10-10-2019
Date of Judgment ‘ 10-10-2019
Advocates Appeared:
For the State of Assam :- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam

For the defence :- Mr. Shanti Uddin Seikh,

Ld. Advocate for the defence.
JUDGMENT

1. This case is u/s 366/376 Indian Penal Code. So, the name of the
victim is not mentioned and she is, hereinafter, referred to as ‘x’.

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Nurbhanu Khatun, the
informant lodged an ezahar with Bilasipara police station on 30-05-2013
informing that ‘x’ is her daughter. ‘x’ was 15 years old at the time of
occurrence. On 24-05-2013 at about 02.00 P.M, the accused Ashraf Ali called

Contd. to page no.-2
[2]

‘x’ to the house of one Felani. The accused Ashraf Ali confined ‘x’ inside the
house of Falani and thereafter he committed rape on ‘x’. After the
occurrence, ‘x’ narrated the same to the informant. She called a village
meeting. But the accused namely Ashraf Ali, Mannaf Ali, Sona Ulla, Ashan Ali
and Barek Ali assaulted the informant and her daughter.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused persons.
3. The Bilasipara police station received the ezahar and registered as
Bilasipara police station case no. 480/13 u/s 109 Indian Penal Code and u/s
6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The case was
investigated and having found prima facie u/s 109 Indian Penal Code and
u/s 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act against the accused
Ashraf Ali, laid the charge sheet before the court for trial.
4. The accused Ashraf Ali, hereinafter called the accused, appeared in
this case. Charge was framed u/s 366/376 Indian Penal Code, I.P.C in short,
against the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the accused
to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined 3 (three) witnesses namely-

1. Nurbanu Bibi P.W-1
2. Sopial Ali P.W-2
3. ‘x’/ the victim P.W-3
6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was

recorded where he denied all allegations levelled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution witnesses and also declined to adduce evidence

in defence.
7. Heard argument for both sides.
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i. Whether accused on 24-05-2013 at about 02.00 P.M at village
Gutipara part IV, induced ‘x’ to go with him with intent that she
might be compelled to marry him against her will or in order that
she may be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse by him or with
other and thereby committed offence u/s 366 I.P.C ?

Contd. to page no.-3
[3]

ii. Whether accused on 24-05-2013 at about 02.00 P.M at village
Gutipara part IV, committed rape on ‘x’ and thereby committed
offence u/s 376 I.P.C ?

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF

9. In this prosecution case P.W-1 Nurbanu Bibi is the informant, P.W-2
Sopial Ali is an independent witness and P.W-3 ‘x’ is the alleged victim.
10. Now let's see the evidence available on record.
11. P.W-1 Nurbanu Bibi has stated in her evidence that she is the
informant in this case. ‘x’ is her daughter. The occurrence took place about
5/6 years ago (from the date of adducing her evidence on 25-09-2019). The
accused went to the house of one Falani. At that moment, her daughter ‘x’
also went to the house of Falani. When ‘x’ entered into the house, the
accused closed the door of the house. When she got to know about that, she
suspected the accused to do some evil against her daughter ‘x’ and
accordingly she lodged the ezahar against the accused. But her daughter
told her, after lodging of the ezahar that the accused did nothing against
her. Ext-1 is the ezahar and Ext-1(1) is her signature.

In her cross P.W-1 has stated that she did not know what was
scribed in the ezahar.
12. P.W-2 Sopial Ali has stated in his evidence that he knows the
informant, the victim ‘x’ and the accused. He knows nothing about the
occurrence.

Cross examination of P.W-2 was declined by the defence.
13. P.W-3 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that the informant is her mother.
She knows the accused. On the day of occurrence at noon, she went to the
house of her sister-in-law named Falani. The accused also went to the house
of the said Falani. When she was inside the house, one boy, not the
accused, closed the door of the house. She bullied the boy for such act.
When her mother knew about the occurrence, she (her mother) lodged the
ezahar against the accused. The accused did not do any voluptuous act on
her. She gave her statement before the Magistrate.

In her cross P.W-3 has stated that the accused did nothing evil

against her.

Contd. to page no.-4
[4]

14. Thus, careful scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1 to P.W-3 shows that P.W-
1 who is the informant of this case adduced evidence not incriminating the
accused. Rather she evinced that when she heard that the accused closed
the door confining her daughter ‘x’, she has suspected the accused to do
some evil on her daughter ‘x’. Owing to suspicion she lodged the ezahar. Her
daughter ‘x’ told her that the accused did not do anything on her. But she
had already lodged the ezahar. So, the evidence of P.W-1 mere on suspicion.

Same is the evidence of P.W-3 ‘x’, the alleged victim. She sternly
denied to do voluptuous act on her by the accused. She admitted that
someone closed the door of the house where she was. But it was not the
accused who closed the door. She told her mother, the informant that the
accused did not do anything wrong against her, but she had already lodged
the ezahar against the accused. Thus, the evidence of P.W-3 is not
inculpatory. She has not entangled the accused with the occurrence.

The evidence of P.W-2 is not considerable as he knew nothing about
the occurrence.
15. Thus, the evidences of P.W-1, P.W-2 and P.W-3 are not inculpatory
against the accused. The evidence as projected by the prosecution is not
sufficient and satisfactory to prove the offences as alleged against the
accused. The prosecution case is dearth of merit.
16. The prosecution, thereby, has failed to prove it’s case u/s 366/376
I.P.C against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
17. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 366/376 I.P.C.
18. Accused is, accordingly, acquitted and set at liberty.

Bail bonds of accused stands cancelled and the bailor is discharged
from all liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 10" day of
October, 2019 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Transcribed & typed by,
S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.
Contd. to page no.-5
[5]

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

P.W-1 Nurbanu Bibi
P.W-2 Sopial Ali
P.W-3 ‘x’/ the victim

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:-
Ext-1 Ejahar.

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT WITNESS - NIL
COURT EXHIBITS fs NIL

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
