1 eCourtIS copy

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR
Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,

SPECIAL CASE NO.41/2019
U/S.366(A) IPC & R.W
Section-
4 of POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM

Vs

Md. Sukur Ali

S/O. Md. Kashimuddin Sheikh
Vill- Shalbari

P.S. Kokrajhar

Dist. Kokrajhar

beaenees Accused person.
Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghose, Special P.P

Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. S. Pahariya

Charge framed on 17.07.2019

Evidence recorded on 30.08.2019;21.09.2019;
25.10.2019; 22.11.2019;
13.12.2019

Argument heard on 01.02.2020

Judgment pronounced on 14.02.2020
UDGMENT

i. The case of the prosecution is that xxx, the father of the victim,

lodged an writen FIR at Kokrajhar Police Station alleging that on

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
1 eCourtIS copy
13.11.2017, at about 2 PM, accused Md. Sukur Ali abducted his minor

daughter xxx, from near his house.

2. On receipt of the FIR, a case under Section 363 of IPC was registered
and after completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was laid against
the accused Sukur Ali for commission of offence U/S 363 IPC read with

Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

3 The accused person was summoned and on his appearance, copies
of the relevant documents were furnished to him. The case was transferred
to this Court for disposal. After hearing both sides, charges under Section-
366(A) of IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act was framed against the

accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

4. In the course of trial prosecution examined 5 (five ) witnesses. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined U/S 313
of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and the accused declined to

adduce any evidence.

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-
(i) Whether the accused abducted the victim, a minor?

(ii) Whether the accused committed sexual intercourse with

the victim, a minor?

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
2 eCourtIS copy

DECISION AND REASONS :

6. Pwl xxx, father of the victim, deposed that about 2 years back
accused abducted his daughter. His daughter was a minor at that
time, hence he filed an FIR. Pw 1 also deposed that his daughter was
in the custody of accused for about 1 % years.

7. In cross examination of Pwl deposed that he lodged an FIR
because he did not find his daughter in his residence. He deposed
that he had not seen the accused abducting his daughter. He
admitted that that his daughter is living a married life with the
accused and that he does not remember the precise date of birth of

his daughter.

8. Pw2 Md. Najir Sarkar deposed that about 1 % years back,
accused had taken away the victim and remained away from their
village for about a year. The father of the victim had lodged an FIR in
this regard. He knows that presently accused and the victim are

living a conjugal life and they also have a child.

9. Pw3 xxx, the victim, deposed that accused is her husband.
She deposed that the incident occurred in the year 2017. Her father
wanted to marry her to a different person but since she had a love
affair with the accused, she escaped her father's house and stayed
in the house of her maternal Aunt at village Harkata in Dhubri

district. She stayed in the house of her maternal Aunt for about 4

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy
months. After attending majority she informed the accused and
married him. Later, her father lodged an FIR. Police produced her

before the Magistrate and she had given her statement

10. At this stage, learned Special P.P sought leave of the Court to declare

the witness as hostile which was granted.

11. In cross examination by Special P.P, pw 3 denied the suggestion that

at the time of marriage with the accused she was less than 18 years of age.

12. In cross examination of Pw3 by the defence, she deposed that her
date of birth is 15.2.2000.

13. Pw4 Md. Bural Hoque, Pw5 Md. Abdus Salam have deposed
they had heard that Sukur Ali has taken away the daughter of Bokdul
Ali.

14. The crucial evidence is that of the victim. According to the
victim she married the accused on her volition and after attaining the
age of 18 years. On this aspect, the cross examination of Special P.P
has not been able to impeach the testimony of victim that she
married the accused only after attaining the majority. Thus, the
evidence on record neither establishes any ingredients of abduction
nor any elements of forced sexual intercourse. On these evidence a

conviction cannot be sustained.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
4 eCourtIS copy

15. In view of the above, the point for determination is answered in

negative.

ORDER

Accused Md.Sukur Ali is acquitted of the charge under Section 366(A)
of IPC , R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.

His bail bonds shall remain valid for six months.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this 14 day of
February,2020.

Dictated by
Special Judge Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-

Exhibit-1 Seizure list
Exhibit-2 Statement
2. Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

PW.1 Md. Bokdul Ali
P.W.2 Md. Najir Sarkar
P.W.3 Xxx victim
P.W.4 Md. Bural Hoque
PW.5 Md. Abdus Salam
4.Defence Witness Nil
5. Court witness Nil

Special Judge
Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
