Page 1 of 7

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 38/16

Informant: XXXXXX

Accused: Sri Biswajit Dey,
S/o- Sri Babul Dey,
R/o- No. 2 Bokuloni Chariali,
PS- Duliajan,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: , learned Advocate.

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH
Page 2 of 7

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 38/16
G.R. Case No. 1269/16

State of Assam
-Vs-

Sri Biswajit Dey

Charges: under Sections 366 IPC read with Section 4 PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 24-06-16.
Date of argument : 27-06-16.
Date of Judgment : 27-06-16.

1)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that the accused person on 15-05-16 had
kidnapped the prosecutrix, a minor, age about 15 years and
thereafter took her to Chabua to the house of his relatives and kept
her there. While staying there, the accused person also committed
sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix. On the next day, the
accused and the prosecutrix returned and they appeared at Duliajan
Police Station and police arrested the accused. Prior to their arrival,
the mother of the prosecutrix lodged an ejahar and a Police Station
case was registered. After recovery of the prosecutrix, her
statement was recorded under Section 164 CrPC and she was also
medically examined. On completion of investigation, the
Investigating Officer submitted the Charge-Sheet.
Upon committal, this Court framed charges under Sections 366 IPC
read with Section 4 Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act
(hereinafter PCSO Act) against the accused person and the charges
were read over and explained to the accused person to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined two witnesses and on
conclusion thereof, the accused person was examined under
Section 313 CrPC wherein the accused person took the plea of
denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and learned counsel for
Page 3 of 7

the defence.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

1. Whether the prosecutrix was a child within the meaning of
Section 2(d) of the Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter ‘the Act’)?

2. Whether the accused person had kidnapped the prosecutrix?

3. Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault
or rape upon the prosecutrix?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

5) The prosecutrix recorded her age as 15 % years which is not
disputed by the defence. Therefore, it is established that the
prosecutrix was a child at the time of occurrence.

Point No. 2 & 3:

6) PW-1 the prosecutrix deposed that she knew the accused person
since about three months prior to the occurrence and she had love
affair with the accused. She further stated that they had a plan to
go out and accordingly on 15-05-16, she came out of her house in
the afternoon and met the accused at OIL Town, Duliajan near DPS.
On the said day, the accused had come in a vehicle along with his
two friends, i.e., Sujit and Bablu whom she did not know. She got
into the car and went out. While talking, they reached Chabua.
There was house of brother-in-law of the accused at Chabua and
they visited the said house. As it was getting dark, the family
members of the accused asked the prosecutrix to stay back and
accordingly, she telephoned her mother telling her not to worry. She
also told her about her location. But her mother told her to get back
home by 12 midnight; otherwise she would lodge case before
police. Being afraid, the prosecutrix switched off her mobile phone.
By that time, the two friends of the accused had already left with
the vehicle in which they had come while the accused stayed back.
The prosecutrix stayed back on that night in that house which was
the house of the sister-in-law of the accused. She further stated that
there were other family members including the brother of the sister-
in-law of the accused as well as the said brother’s mother, besides
some other family members. On that night, she slept with the
Page 4 of 7

mother while the accused slept in another room. In the morning,
family members of the sister-in-law of the accused informed that a
case had been lodged and thereafter, they went to Tinsukia and
arrived at Napukhuri Park. Her family members including her uncle
and also the family members of the accused arrived there.
Thereafter, they went to their respective houses. At home, her
mother scolded her for not coming on the said night. PW-1 further
stated that she was taken to the doctor for medical examination
and she was also taken to the Magistrate where her statement was
recorded. Police also recorded her statement.

During cross-examination, PW-1 the prosecutrix stated that earlier
to the occurrence also, she had gone out with the accused a few
times and returned home. On that day, there was no birthday of any
of her friend and she had falsely stated before her mother. As per
prior arrangement, she had come out of her house covering a
distance of about 1 % km on feet and met the accused near the
said school. When she got into the vehicle, the accused had called
her mother and informed her that they were going out for a while
and will be back soon and she agreed. From Duliajan, they reached
Chabua via Deohal at around 6:30 pm. After reaching Chabua, they
again came out for Chabua Bazar and did shopping. From Chabua,
they reached Tinsukia at about 8:30 am and therefrom to Duliajan
at about 10:30 am. After arriving home, she took bath, changed her
cloths and took rest. After dropping them at Duliajan, the accused
and his family members went to their respective houses. Her
mother also assured them that she would withdraw the case. At
about 4:30/5:00 pm, she along with her mother went to Duliajan
Police Station to withdraw the case. Police made phone call to the
accused and called him to the police station. Police recorded her
statement at about 6:30/7:30 pm at the police station. PW-1 further
stated that she had stated before the doctor that the date of her
menstruation was 11-05-16 and bleeding was going on from her
private part. The doctor only examined her teeth and did not go
through detailed examination of her body as well as private part.
She further stated that whatever she had deposed regarding the
sexual intercourse by the accused with her before the doctor, police
10)

Page 5 of 7

and Magistrate was false as her mother told her to do so. They did
not have any sexual intercourse. She had voluntarily gone with the
accused person as she herself wanted to go and this was with the
knowledge and consent of her mother.
PW-2 the mother of the prosecutrix deposed that the accused was
known to her and the prosecutrix is her daughter. On the day of
occurrence, the accused person had called her while she was in a
meeting in the afternoon and asked about her daughter and she
told him that she was in shooting. Later on, her daughter called PW-
2 from Chabua at around 7:30 in the evening and said that she
wanted to stay away as it was late. But PW-2 told her to return
immediately. After that, her mobile phone was switched off. PW-
2 did not get any information on that night. On the said day, she
decided to lodge an ejahar at Duliajan Police Station regarding the
incident. Accordingly, she lodged the ejahar on the said night itself.
On the next day morning, her daughter came with the accused.
Prior to that, there was conversation with the family members of the
accused and her uncle. After they come back, they settled the
matter and also asked the police not to proceed further, but police
told that the case had already been registered.
During cross-examination, PW-2 stated that the ejahar was written
by one person, namely, Sri Troilukya Phukan and she had told
everything to the ejahar writer, but he might have not written
everything. PW-2 denied the defence suggestion that the accused
had told her before that he was taking her daughter to Chabua and
would be late. PW-2 stated that the accused only told her that they
reached Chabua. PW-2 further stated that on prior occasions also,
her daughter had gone with the accused, but returned on time. PW-
2 stated that she did not have any allegation against the accused.
From the undisputed testimonies of the prosecutrix herself who
is nearly 16 years old, it is apparent that she voluntarily went with
the accused person and the same was also to the knowledge and
consent of her mother. She had also done so on earlier occasions,
as she was admittedly having a love affair with the accused.
Therefore, no ingredients of Section 366 IPC is satisfied. Further, in
view of her categorical assertion that no sexual intercourse took
Page 6 of 7

place between her and the accused and in absence of any other
witness testifying to the same, it is not possible to hold that the
accused person had committed sexual intercourse with the
prosecutrix.

11) As per the medical report, the evidence of sexual intercourse
was found upon examination, but as per deposition of the
prosecutrix, the doctor only examined her teeth and did not go
through detailed examination of her body as well as her private
part. It is not as if the prosecutrix was in a state of confinement and
nobody else had access to her prior to the period when she was
medically examined. Since she has categorically exonerated the
accused of sexual intercourse, even if any sexual intercourse taken
place, the act cannot be attributed to the accused. Therefore, it is
not established that the accused person had committed penetrative
sexual assault upon the prosecutrix. The point is answered
accordingly.

12) Inthe result, | hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its
case beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused
person is acquitted of the offence under Sections 366 IPC read with
Section 4 PCSO Act and he be set at liberty forthwith.

13) Previous bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6
(six) months under Section 437-A CrPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 27™ day

of June, 2016.

Sessions
Certified that the judgment is typed Judge,
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions
Judge,
Page 7 of 7

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. XXXXXX
List of Exhibits: NIL.
List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Transcribed and typed by:- Sessions
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno. Judge,
