Page 1 of 14

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 70/15

Informant: XXXXX

Accused: Sri Sunit Dutta,
S/o- Sri Biren Dutta,
R/o- OIL Colony, Qtr. No. AT-3,
PS- Duliajan,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. S Seal, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 14

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 70/15
G.R. Case No. 2194/15

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Sunit Dutta

Charge: under Section 8 PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 05-03-16 & 07-04-16.
Date of argument —_: 12-08-16 & 09-09-16.
Date of Judgment __: 14-09-16.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that the accused person who is a teacher by occupation
used to take tuition of the prosecutrix at her home and on 08-08-15, when he
had gone there to take tuition, taking the advantage of absence of her
co-student, the accused person caught hold of the hand of the prosecutrix
and committed sexual assault upon her. The father of the prosecutrix lodged
an ejahar on the next day whereupon a police case was registered and
investigation commenced. In course of such investigation, the Investigating
Officer recorded the statement of witnesses, drew up Sketch-Map of the
place of occurrence, arrested the accused person, got the statement of the
prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 CrPC and on completion of
investigation, submitted the Charge-Sheet.
Upon committal, this Court framed charge under Section 8 of Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act (hereinafter PCSO Act) against the
accused person and the charge was read over and explained to the accused
person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined four witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Mr. S Seal, learned counsel

for the defence.
Page 3 of 14

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the prosecutrix was a child within the meaning of Section
2(d) of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(hereinafter ‘the Act’)?
2. Whether the accused committed sexual assault or any other act of
similar nature upon the prosecutrix?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

5) The father of the prosecutrix, who was examined as PW-1 stated that his
daughter was aged 14 years whereas PW-2, the mother of the prosecutrix
stated her daughter's age about 13 years. On the other hand, the prosecutrix
herself who was examined as PW-3 recorded her age as 16 years at the time
of recording her deposition before the Court. She also described herself as a
student of Class-IX. But while recording her statement under Section 164
CrPC on 18-08-15, i.e., about 6 months prior to her deposition before the trial
Court, she recorded her age as 13 years. Therefore, from the deposition of
the PWs themselves, there appears to be a variation of four years as far as
the age of the prosecutrix is concerned. The Investigating Officer did not get
the prosecutrix medically examined, even in order to determine her age and
therefore, there is no medical evidence regarding her age at the time of
occurrence. Despite being of school going student, the Investigating Officer
did not obtain any age proof in the form of School Certificate or any like
document. Therefore, the best evidence with regard to the age of the
prosecutrix has not been adduced by the prosecutrix, without any plausible
explanation. Merely because the defence failed to challenge the deposition of
the PWs-1 & 2 regarding the age of the prosecutrix cannot absolve the
prosecution of its burden to establish every ingredient of the offence that the
accused has been charged with. In view of the same, coupled with the wide
divergence in the oral deposition of the witnesses, I am of the view that the
prosecution has failed to establish that the prosecutrix was a child below 18
years of age at the time of occurrence.

Point No. 2:

6) In view of the finding of Point No. 1, the accused cannot be held liable for
the offence under Section 8 PCSO Act. But still he may be convicted for a

lesser or minor offence under Sections 354/354-A IPC if the material on
7)

8)

9)

Page 4 of 14

record so justifies, with the aid of Section 222 CrPC.

PW-1 stated that in the month of August, 2015, the accused was engaged as
private tutor of his daughter as well as his neighbour Partha Pratim Gayon.
On 8" August 2015, the accused went to his house for the purpose of tuition
class, but on the said date, Partha Pratim did not go to his house. As the
accused had already arrived, so his wife PW-2 went to the house of Partha
Pratim to call him. Accordingly, Partha Pratim came to his house and the
accused came out from his house after finishing the tuition class. PW-1
further stated that his daughter informed her mother that the accused had
done misdeed with her and that he kissed her and touched her private parts.
At that time, he was present in the house. At about 2.30 pm, when he came
from his college, his wife informed him about the incident. Upon asking, his
daughter told him what she had narrated before her mother.

During cross-examination, PW-1 stated that though he went to the police
station to lodge an ejahar, police told him that they were busy and asked him
to come on the next day. He denied the defence suggestion that his daughter
did not tell him anything about embracing, kissing and touching and that that
is why he did not mention the same in the ejahar. He further stated that he
did not mention the cause of delay in his ejahar.

PW-3 the prosecutrix stated that on 08-08-15, at about 9:20 am, the accused
went to her house for tuition class. One Partha Pratim Gayon also used to
take tuition with her in her house. On the said date, he had not come to her
house for tuition and that is why her mother went to call him whereas she
was in her room with the accused, being the tution master. PW-3 further
stated that there was a table with three attached chairs and she was sitting
on one chair whereas the accused was sitting on another chair. Upon calling
of the accused, when she got up and went near him, he embraced her and
kissed her. The accused caressed her face with his hand and brought his
hand down to her breast. PW-3 further stated that at that time, her mother
along with Partha Pratim reached the gate and hearing the sound of opening
the gate, the accused told her to go and sit whereafter both of them started
the tuition class and the accused left the place after completing the tuition
class. At the time of occurrence, her father was not present in the house as
he had left for the College for his job. At about 2:00 pm, when her father

arrived at the house, her mother narrated the incident to him which took
Page 5 of 14

place with her. Upon asking by her father, she told him what had taken place
with her.

10) During cross-examination, PW-3 denied the suggestion that she did not
narrate the incident to her father and that she deposed before the Magistrate
as tutored by police and by her parents and that no such occurrence took
place and that is why, there was no description of the occurrence in the First
Information Report and that a compromise talk took place with the accused
and her parents in the police station. Therefore, other than giving
suggestions, the testimony of the prosecutrix has stood firm.

11) PW-2, the mother of the prosecutrix stated that on 08-08-15, at about 9:30
am, the accused went to her house, but Sri Partha Pratim did not go to her
house to attend the tuition class. She went to the house of Partha Pratim to
call him and her daughter was in reading the room along with the accused.
Within 5 minutes, she arrived at her house along with Partha Pratim and after
completing the tutorial class, the accused left her house. PW-2 further stated
that she saw her daughter weeping and upon asking as to what had
happened, she informed her that the accused embraced her, kissed her and
touched her breasts. Her daughter also informed her that on prior occasions
also, the accused had committed such misdeed with her. PW-2 further stated
that at about 2:30 pm, when her husband came back from the college, she
narrated the incident to him as told to her by her daughter.

12) During cross-examination, she admitted that she did not state before police
what she had deposed before the Court as police did not ask her. However,
she stated that the police questioned her and the prosecutrix together and
recorded her statement. But no material omission or contradiction could be
brought out during cross-examination of PW-2. She denied the defence
suggestion to the effect that no such incident had taken place or that her
daughter never told her about any previous misdeed having been committed
by the accused. Therefore, since the prosecutrix immediately after the
occurrence reported the matter to the PW-2, the evidence of PW-2 is
admissible under Section 6 of the Evidence Act as that of a res gestae
witness which stood unshaken and corroborated the evidence of PW-3 in all
material particulars [Gentella Vijayavardhan Rao vs. State of AP: 1996
(6) SCC 241].

13) PW-4 Sri Jitumoni Bora stated that on the day of occurrence, in the evening,
Page 6 of 14

when he was in his college, PW-1 called him to his house and accordingly,
PW-4 went to his house. Upon his arrival, PW-1 told him that his daughter
was attending a tutorial class alone in her house taken by the accused and
the accused misbehaved with her by touching her body.

14) During cross-examination, while denying the defence suggestion, he stated
that the accused used to take several tutorial classes, but he never heard any
complaint from any other student against the accused prior to the
occurrence. But that is hardly of any relevance.

15)Mr. S Seal, learned counsel for the defence submitted that it is clear from the
evidence of the PWs that the prosecutrix, who was apparently a major or at
least of sufficient understanding and maturity, did not protest in any manner
to the alleged advances made by the accused, which would indicate that she
was a consenting party. If indeed, as deposed to by the mother of the
prosecutrix, the accused had done so on earlier occasions also, the
prosecutrix kept mum when she had several opportunities to report the
matter to her mother. Even on the alleged date of occurrence, the
prosecutrix, after being allegedly molested by the accused, did not go away
from the room upon arrival of her mother, but remained there and the
accused and the prosecutrix completed her tuition class and only after the
accused left, the prosecutrix was allegedly found weeping by the PW-2. Such
conduct is most unnatural and therefore not believable, submits Mr. Seal.
Moreover, there is no explanation in the ejahar as to why it took so long for
the informant to lodge the same before the police which itself would show
that it is a concocted story. The prosecution has withheld a most material
witness, namely, the boy who used to take tuition along with the prosecutrix
and who was allegedly present on that day with the prosecutrix and the
accused, the reason obviously being that the said co-student did not notice
anything amiss.

16)I am unable to accept the above line of reasoning. The prosecutrix is a young
school going girl studying in Class-IX, and highly suseptible to the coercive
influence of her teacher. PW-3, the mother of the prosecutrix, clearly deposed
that she found her daughter weeping soon after the accused left which
testimony stood unshaken. If at all it was a consensual act, the prosecutrix
would not have been found weeping. The absence of the co-student provided

the requisite opportunity to the accused. She would have been either too
Page 7 of 14

embarrassed or lacking in courage to report the act to her mother
immediately upon her arrival as the accused, her teacher was still present.
Teacher enjoy a particular kind of dominance over their young students,
which inspires awe as well as fear in their mind and different individual react
differently to similar situations. The evidence of the prosecutrix cannot be
disbelieved on that ground alone. The non-examination of the co-student is
not at all material as he was not privy to any of the happenings that took
place prior to his arrival at the place of occurrence and subsequent thereto.
Merely because he may not have noticed anything amices is not sufficient to
discredit the prosecution version. The delay in lodging the ejahar has been
explained by the informant, stating that police told him to come back on the
next day. PW-4, an independent witness, has deposed that the informant
reported the matter to him on the same evening. Therefore, the alleged delay
in lodging the First Information Report does not cast any doubt on the

prosecution case.

17) The accused person in his defence statement stated that he never went to

the house of the prosecutrix on the day of occurrence. It is in the nature of a
plea of alibi. But no evidence was led to prove it. Neither was such a

suggestion given to the PWs during cross-examination.

18) Accused further stated that tuition fees @ Rs. 3,000/- per month from the

prosecutrix was well as the co-student was due since last three months, but
he did not insist for payment, although he asked once. That would hardly
sufficient impetus to the informant to make such a serious allegation against
the accused, at the risk of the reputation and academic performance of his

daughter.

19) From the evidence discussed above, it is established that the accused used

criminal force upon the prosecutrix, knowing it to be likely that he will
thereby outrage her modesty, thereby satisfying the ingredients of the
offence under Section 354 IPC.

20)The question that now requires consideration is whether it would be

permissible to convict the accused under Section 354 IPC in the absence of
charge thereunder, the charge having being framed under Section 8 of the
PCSO Act, by taking recourse to Section 222 CrPC which provides:

222. When offence proved included in offence charged:
Page 8 of 14

(1) When a person is charged with an offence consisting of several
particulars, a combination of some only of which constitutes a
complete minor offence, and such combination is proved, but the
remaining particulars are not proved, he may be convicted of the
minor offence though he was not charged with it.
2) When a person is charged with an offence and facts are proved
which reduce it to a minor offence, he may be convicted of the
minor offence, although he is not charged with it.
3) XXXX
4) XXXX
21) Section 2 (n) of the CrPC defines “offence” as follows:
(n) "offence" means any act or omission made punishable by any
law for the time being in force and includes any act in respect of
which a complaint may be made under section 20 of the Cattle-
trespass Act, 1871 ( 1 of 1871);
22) Therefore, the offence under any law is covered by Section 222 CrPC.
23)In Dalbir Singh Vs. State of U.P. [MANU/SC/0320/2004], the Hon'ble
Supreme Court held as follows:
“14. Here the Court proceeded to examine the question that if the
accused has been charged under Section 302 IPC and the said charge is
not established by evidence, would it be possible to convict him under
Section 306 IPC having regard to Section 222 Cr.P.C. Sub-section (1) of
Section 222 lays down that when a person is charged with an offence
consisting of several particulars, a combination of some only of which
constitutes a complete minor offence, and such combination is proved,
but the remaining particulars are not proved, he may be convicted of the
minor offence, though he was not charged with it. Sub-section (2) of the
same Section lays down that when a person is charged with an offence
and facts are proved which reduce it to a minor offence, he may be
convicted of the minor offence, although he is not charged with it. Section
222 Cr.P.C. is in the nature of a general provision which empowers the
Court to convict for a minor offence even though charge has been framed
for a major offence. Illustrations (a) and (b) to the said Section also make
the position clear. However, there is a separate chapter in the Code of

Criminal Procedure, namely Chapter XXXV which deals with Irregular
Page 9 of 14

Proceedings and their effect. This chapter enumerates various kinds of
irregularities which have the effect of either vitiating or not vitiating the
proceedings. Section 464 of the Code deals with the effect of omission to
frame, or absence of, or error in, charge. Sub-section (1) of this Section
provides that no finding, sentence or order by a Court of competent
jurisdiction shall be deemed invalid merely on the ground that no charge
was framed or on the ground of any error, omission or irregularity in the
charge including any misjoinder of charges, unless, in the opinion of the
Court of appeal, confirmation or revision, a failure of justice has in fact
been occasioned thereby. This clearly shows that any error, omission or
irregularity in the charge including any misjoinder of charges shall not
result in invalidating the conviction or order of a competent Court unless
the appellate or revisional Court comes to the conclusion that a failure of
justice has in fact been occasioned thereby. In Lakhjit Singh (supra)
though Section 464 Cr.P.C. has not been specifically referred to but the
Court altered the conviction from 302 to 306 IPC having regard to the
principles underlying in the said Section. In Sangaraboina Sreenu (supra)
the Court completely ignored to consider the provisions of Section 464
Cr.P.C. and keeping in view Section 222 Cr.P.C. alone, the conviction of the
appellant therein under Section 306 IPC was set aside.
15. In Willie Slaney v. State of Madhya Pradesh MANU/SC/0038/1955 :
1956CriLJ291 , a Constitution Bench examined the question of absence of
charge in considerable detail. The observations made in paras 6 and 7,
which are of general application, are being reproduced below:

"6. Before we proceed to set out our answer and examine the

provisions of the Code, we will pause to observe that the Code

is a code of procedure and, like all procedural laws, is designed

to further the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by the

introduction of endless technicalities. The object of the Code is

to ensure that an accused person gets a full and fair trial along

with certain well-established and well-understood lines that

accord with our notions of natural justice.
If he does, if he is tried by a competent court, if he is told and clearly
understands the nature of the offence for which he is being tried, if

the case against him is fully and fairly explained to him and he is
Page 10 of 14

afforded a full and fair opportunity of defending himself, then,
provided there is ‘substantial’ compliance with the outward forms of
the law, mere mistakes in procedure, mere inconsequential errors and
omissions in the trial are regarded as venal by the Code and the trial
is not vitiated unless the accused can show substantial prejudice.
That, broadly speaking, is the basic principle on which the Code is
based.

7. Now here, as in all procedural laws, certain things are regarded as
vital. Disregard of a provision of that nature is fatal to the trial and at
once invalidates the conviction. Others are not vital and whatever the
irregularity they can be cured; and in that event the conviction must
stand unless the Court is satisfied that there was prejudice. Some of
these matters are dealt with by the Code and wherever that is the
case full effect must be given to its provisions."

After analysing the provisions of Sections 225, 232, 535 and 537 of Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1908 which correspond to Sections 215, 464(2),
464 and 465 of 1973 Code, the Court held as under in para 44 of the
Report:

"Now, as we have said, Sections 225, 232, 535 and 537(a) between
them, cover every conceivable type of error and irregularity referable
to a charge that can possibly arise, ranging from cases in which there
is a conviction with no charge at all from start to finish down to cases
in which there is a charge but with errors, irregularities and omissions
in it. The Code is emphatic that 'whatever' the irregularity it is not to
be regarded as fatal unless there is prejudice.

It is the substance that we must seek. Courts have to administer
justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as
the protection of innocence. Neither can be done if the shadow is
mistaken for the substance and the goal is lost in a labyrinth of
unsubstantial technicalities. Broad vision is required, a nice balancing
of the rights of the State and the protection of society in general
against protection from harassment to the individual and the risks of
unjust conviction.

Every reasonable presumption must be made in favour of an accused

person; he must be given the benefit of every reasonable doubt. The
Page 11 of 14

same broad principles of justice and fair play must be brought to bear
when determining a matter of prejudice as in adjudging guilt. But
when all is said and done what we are concerned to see is whether
the accused had a fair trial, whether he knew what he was being tried
for, whether the main facts sought to be established against him were
explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full
and fair chance to defend himself.

If all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the
conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to
the charge or to a want of one."

16. This question was again examined by a three Judge Bench in
Gurbachan Singh v. State of Punjab MANU/SC/0132/1957 : 1957CriLJ1009
in which it was held as under:

"In judging a question of prejudice, as of guilt, Courts must act with a
broad vision and look to the substance and not to technicalities, and
their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair
trial, whether he knew what he was being tried for, whether the main
facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly
and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend
himself."

17. There are a catena of decisions of this Court on the same lines and it
is not necessary to burden this judgment by making reference to each
one of them. Therefore, in view of Section 464 Cr.P.C., it is possible for
the appellate or revisional Court to convict an accused for an offence for
which no charge was framed unless the Court is of the opinion that a
failure of justice would in fact occasion. In order to judge whether a
failure of justice has been occasioned, it will be relevant to examine
whether the accused was aware of the basic ingredients of the offence for
which he is being convicted and whether the main facts sought to be
established against him were explained to him clearly and whether he got
a fair chance to defend himself. We are, therefore, of the opinion that
Sangarabonia Sreenu (supra) was not correctly decided as it purports to
lay down as a principle of law that where the accused is charged under
Section 302 IPC, he cannot be convicted for the offence under Section
306 IPC.”
Page 12 of 14

24)In Tarkeshwar Sahu Vs. State of Bihar (Now Jharkhand)
[MANU/SC/4421/2006], the Hon'ble Supreme Court convicted the appellant
under Section 354 IPC although charge was framed under Section 376 IPC by
the learned trial Court, with the aid of Section 222 CrPC.

25) Section 7 of PCSO Act, which defines the offence punishable under Section 8
provides as follows:

“7. Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis,
anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the
vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other
person, or does any other act with sexual intent which
involves physical contact without penetration is said to
commit sexual assault.”

26) Section 354 IPC provides as follows:

“354. Assault or criminal force to woman with intent
to outrage her modesty.--Whoever assaults or uses
criminal force to any woman, intending to outrage or
knowing it to be likely that he will there by outrage her
modesty, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to two years, or
with fine, or with both.”

27)A comparison and contrasting of the two penal provisions would show that
the offence of sexual assault defined under Section 7 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offices Act requires a sexual intent on the part of the
offender while making physical contact with the victim, whereas Section 354
IPC requires an intention to outrage the modesty of the victim or knowledge
of likelihood thereof, regardless of whether the offender harboured any
sexual intent as well, as at the time of assault or use of criminal force upon
her. On the other hand, the offence of sexual assault would be complete
upon mere touch with the requisite sexual intent, regardless of its effect upon
the victim, i.e., whether or not the said act outrages her modesty is
irrelevant.

28) In the instant case, the accused was charged with having committed sexual
assault, i.e., having touched the victim with sexual intent. The victim in her
evidence described the manner in which the accused touched her, which

included kissing and touching of face and breast of the victim. In any view of
Page 13 of 14

the matter, such acts, which definitely amount to use of criminal force, are
certain to outrage the modesty of any unwilling lady. The accused had and
availed of full opportunity to meet the said facts alleged against him and took
the plea of alibi. Therefore, no prejudice would be caused to the accused nor
would it occasion a failure of justice if he is convicted of the offence under
Section 354 IPC, though not charged with it, in view of Section 464 CrPC,
considered in the light of Dalbir Singh (Supra).

29)In the result, I hold that the prosecution has proved its case under Section
354 IPC beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused person is
convicted of the offence under Sections 354 IPC.

30) Heard the convict and learned Public Prosecutor on the point of sentence.
Considering that an offence of a sexual nature has been committed upon a
young girl, I am not inclined to extend the benefit of the Probation of
Offenders Act to the convict. The convict stated that he has a wife and a
small child, earning a livelihood only through tuition. Accordingly, he has
prayed for leniency. No previous criminal record has been brought to notice.

31) Considering the above, the convict Sunit Dutta is sentenced to undergo RI for
1 (one) year and to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/-, i.d., SI for 14 (fourteen) days.

32) Furnish a free copy of this judgment to the convict immediately and send a
copy to the District Magistrate, Dibrugarh.

33)The case is referred to the District Legal Services Authority, Dibrugarh for
consideration of compensation to the victim under the Assam Victim
Compensation Scheme. Communicate the order to the Secretary, District
Legal Services Authority, Dibrugarh.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 14" day of

September, 2016.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 14 of 14

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. XXXXXX
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Ejahar; and
2. Ext. 2 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
