 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,

Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 37 (M) of 2015
U/s 6 of the POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM —__aaeacececeeeeeeeeeneenes Complainant.
-Versus -

Sri Surjya Upadhaya

S/o- Sri Hari Har Upadhaya

R/o- 6th Mile Rampur

P.S- Lekhapani

District- Tinsukia, ASSAM oh. eeececeeceaeeeeaeenees Accused.

Appearance:

Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor —.........eeeee, For the State
M.S Alley,
Advocate —_acacsecaeceeeeeeaes For the accused.

Date of Argument: 06/06/2019
Date of Judgment: 13/06/2019
J} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. The victim in this case belongs to tea tribes community.
She is the adopted daughter of Maha Prasad Sharma. It may
be stated that Maha Prasad Sharma is a teacher by profession,
but he has been a businessman also. Maha Prasad Sharma has
a car, but he does not know how to drive car. Therefore, he
used to hire the accused to drive his car. For the matters
relating to his business, Maha Prasad Sharma often traveled in
his car along with the accused. In this way, a friendly
relationship grew up between Maha Prasad Sharma and the
accused.

2. Maha Prasad Sharma used to consume liquor. On the
day of occurrence, the victim was alone in the house of Maha
Prasad Sharma, as because his wife had gone to Tezpur. On
that day Maha Prasad Sharma had liquor with the accused
somewhere outside his house. Under the influence of liquor,
Maha Prasad Sharma lost his senses. He was not in a position
to walk also. Therefore, the accused brought Maha Prasad
Sharma to his house and laid him on the bed and Maha Prasad
Sharma went into deep sleep.

3. After Maha Prasad Sharma had fallen into deep sleep,
the accused allegedly jumped upon the victim girl in another
room of the house and committed forcible sexual intercourse
with her. After being raped, the victim girl ran out of the house
and at that time, she was bleeding from her private part. Sri
Rup Narayan Sharma, the brother of Maha Prasad Sharma
used to reside in a nearby house. Binita Sharma, the wife of
Rup Narayan Sharma had noticed that the victim girl was
crying in the cowshed of the house of Maha Prasad Sharma.
So, she asked the victim girl as to why she was crying. The
victim girl told Binita Sharma that the accused had committed
a sin and requested Binita Sharma to take her to the house of
Maharaj Sharma, who resided in another nearby house. Binita
Sharma had noticed that the victim girl was bleeding from her
private part, as because her clothes were stained with blood.
Binita Sharma immediately called some neighbours and with
the help of Maharaj Sharma, the victim girl was taken to the
hospital. Binita Sharma and Maharaj Sharma did not go to the
hospital, but they went to the house of Maha Prasad Sharma.
Maha Prasad Sharma was sleeping at that time. Therefore,
Maharaj Sharma woke him up and informed him about the

occurrence.

4. In the mean time, Doctors of Jagun Mini PHC found the
condition of the victim to be bad and therefore, Doctors
informed police. Next morning, Maha Prasad Sharma _ had
lodged an ejahar before police, alleging that the accused had
committed rape upon his foster daughter.

5. After filing of the ejahar, police registered a case and
sent the victim girl to Tirap Gate State Dispensary for medical
examination. Accordingly, Dr. Mouchumi Gogoi of Tirap Gate
State Dispensary examined the victim girl on 27/10/2015 at
about 1.10 pm.

6. After examination of the victim girl at Tirap Gate State
Dispensary, the victim girl was sent to AMCH, Dibrugarh on
that day itself and accordingly, on that day i.e. 27/10/2015, at
about 8.30 pm, the victim girl was examined by Dr. Nibedita
Shyam. At AMCH, Dibrugarh, on examination it was found that

spermatozoa was present within the vagina of the victim girl.
Doctor also opined that there were signs of recent sexual

intercourse.

7. Finally, on conclusion of investigation, police filed the
charge sheet against the accused.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

8. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed aggravated penetrative

sexual assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

9. In order to prove the case against the accused, the
prosecution side has examined as many as eleven witnesses,
including the two Doctors namely Dr. Mouchumi Gogoi and Dr.
Nibedita Shyam and the Police Investigating Officers. The
defence plea is total denial and the accused has examined
one witness named Bhim Prasad Sharma. | have carefully gone
through the prosecution evidences as well as the defence

evidence.

10. Here in this case, the prosecution contention is that the
victim girl is below 18 years of age. There is no school
documents or birth certificates of the victim girl. Dr. Mouchumi
Gogoi has stated in her evidence that as per radiological
examination, the age of the victim was above 12 years and
below 14 years. Dr. Nibedita Shyam of AMCH, Dibrugarh has
stated in her evidence that the age of the victim girl was
above 12 years and below 14 years. There is no cross
examination, challenging the aforesaid evidence. Therefore, |
have reasons to hold that the victim girl was below 14 years of
age is not a disputed fact in this case.
11. Now, | shall take up the evidence of the victim girl. She
has stated in her evidence that on the day of occurrence, her
foster father Maha Prasad Sharma had returned home and
took dinner and went to sleep. The victim girl has stated that
at that time, she was watching T.V. and she continued to
watch T.V., after Maha Prasad Sharma had fallen asleep. The
victim girl has stated that the wife of Maha Prasad Sharma
was not present in the house, as because she had gone to
Tezpur. The victim has stated that after sometime, the accused
knocked the door and from outside asked the victim to open
the door, on the ground that he had left his mobile phone in
the house. The victim has stated in her evidence that she
opened the door and then the accused jumped upon her and
took her to another room of the house. According to the
victim, the accused disrobed her and had forcible sexual

intercourse with her.

12. The witness Binita Sharma is the sister in law of Maha
Prasad Sharma. She has stated in her evidence that on the
day of occurrence, at about 8.30 pm, she noticed that the
victim girl was crying in the cowshed of the house of Maha
Prasad Sharma. Binita Sharma has quoted the victim girl as
telling her that the accused had committed a sin. Binita
Sharma has stated that she noticed that the victim girl was
bleeding from her vagina and her clothes were stained with
blood. According to Binita Sharma, she called some other
villagers and with the help of Maha Prasad Sharma took the
victim to the hospital. Binita Sharma has stated that she and
Maha Prasad Sharma did not go to the hospital, but they came
to the house of Maha Prasad Sharma. According to Binita
Sharma, Maharaj Sharma managed to wake up Maha Prasad
Sharma and informed him about the occurrence.
13. Now, | shall take up the evidence of Maha Prasad
Sharma. He has stated in his evidence that on the day of
occurrence, he was feeling unwell and so he retired to his bed
room earlier than before. He has stated that at about 9.30 / 10
pm, he woke up from his bed and saw that Uma Devi Sharma,
Rita Sharma, Maharaj Sharma and Binita Sharma were present
by the side of his bed. Maha Prasad Sharma has stated that all
of them told him that the accused had committed rape upon
his adopted daughter. Maha Prasad Sharma has stated that he
immediately asked the victim girl about the occurrence and
the victim told him that the accused had committed rape upon
her. Maha Prasad Sharma has stated that his daughter was
bleeding profusely and therefore, he took her to Jagun Mini
PHC. According to Maha Prasad Sharma, on seeing the
condition of his daughter, Doctors at the hospital informed
police. Maha Prasad Sharma has stated that police gave the
custody of his daughter to Uma Devi for the night. Maha
Prasad Sharma has stated that next morning, he had lodged
an ejahar before police.

14. The other witnesses in this case are Gopal Sonar, Rup
Narayan Sharma, Maharaj Sharma, Rita Sharma and the Police
investigating officers Pratap Gogoi and Pulak Kumar. It may be
stated that the witness Rita Sharma is the wife of Maharaj
Sharma.

15. The witness Gopal Sonar is a hearsay witness. His

evidence is not relevant for this case.

16. The witness Rup Narayan Sharma is the another
brother of Maha Prasad Sharma. He has stated in his evidence
that on the day of occurrence, at about 8 / 9 pm, his wife
informed him that the accused had ill-treated the victim girl.
Rup Narayan Sharma has stated that at that point of time, he
was not having a good relationship with his brother Maha
Prasad Sharma. Rupa Narayan Sharma has stated that for the
aforesaid reason, his wife took the victim to the house of
Maharaj Sharma. He has stated that on the day of occurrence,
Maha Prasad Sharma along with the accused had returned
home in the evening in a drunken state. Rup Narayan Sharma
has stated that on seeing the condition of Maha Prasad
Sharma, he told the accused that he should inform the wife of
Maha Prasad Sharma, because this witness apprehended that
under the drunken condition, Maha Prasad Sharma might
suffer death.

17. The witness Maharaj Sharma has stated that on the day
of occurrence, at about 9 pm, Rupa Narayan Sharma and his
wife Binita Sharma brought the victim to his house. According
to him, both Rup Narayan Sharma and Binita Sharma informed
his wife Rita Sharma and told her that the victim girl was
crying and was telling that someone had tried to pierced
something into her belly. Therefore, she was suffering pain.
Maharaj Sharma has stated that after hearing about the
matter from his wife, he immediately went to the house of
Maha Prasad Sharma. He has disclosed that at that time, Maha
Prasad was completely drunk and was sleeping. Maharaj
Sharma has further stated that he woke up Maha Prasad and
informed him about the aforesaid facts. Maharaj Sharma has
stated that after hearing about the occurrence, Maha Prasad
Sharma woke up from his bed and came to his house. Maharaj
Sharma has stated that he had also informed the Gaonburha
Bhim Prasad Sharma and he sent the victim girl to the hospital
in the company of some other women of the village.
18. The witness Rita Sharma is the wife of Maharaj Sharma.
She has stated in her evidence that on the day of occurrence,
at about 9 /10 pm, Rup Narayan Sharma and his wife Binita
Sharma had come to her house along with the victim girl. Rita
Sharma has stated that the victim was crying at that time.
According to her, Binita Sharma told her that the victim was
telling her that the accused had pierced her body. Rita Sharma
has stated that her husband Maharaj Sharma immediately
informed the Gaonburha and on the basis of the advice of the
Gaonburha, the victim girl was sent to the hospital. She has
stated that she along with some other women took the victim
girl to the hospital.

19. The Investigating Officers spoke about the investigation
of the case.

20. Now, | shall take up the evidence of the defence
witness Bhim Prasad Sharma. He is the Gaonburha of the
village and his name has been referred to by the prosecution
witness Maharaj Sharma. The defence witness Bhim Prasad
Sharma has stated that on the day of occurrence, at about
7.30 / 8 pm, he had seen Maha Prasad Sharma in a drunken
state and Maha Prasad Sharma was having an argument with
some other persons. He has stated that at that time, he was in
the shop of Gopi Sharma at 6th Mile of Rampur Village. Bhim
Prasad Sharma has further stated that the accused was also
present near Maha Prasad Sharma. So, he asked the accused
to interfere into the matter. Bhim Prasad Sharma has stated
that after that the accused took Maha Prasad Sharma home in
a car. Bhim Prasad Sharma has stated that on that day at
about 9.30 pm, he was returning from a Kirtan and at that
time, the prosecution witness Maharaj Sharma called him over
phone and informed him that rape was committed upon a girl
in the house of Maha Prasad Sharma. Bhim Prasad Sharma has
further stated that after getting the news, he went to the
house of Maharaj Sharma along with Gopi Sharma. The
defence witness has stated that he advised Maharaj Sharma to
take the victim girl to a Doctor immediately.

21. The defence witness Bhim Prasad Sharma has stated
that prior to the occurrence, one day the wife of the accused
told him that the accused had learnt to drink liquor in the
company of Maha Prasad Sharma and therefore, he should
informed him to given up such bad habit. Bhim Prasad has
stated that thereafter he had advised Maha Prasad Sharma
not to call the accused to drive his car and also told Maha
Prasad Sharma not to give company to the accused at the
time of drinking liquor.

22. All the prosecution witnesses have been extensively
cross examined by the defence counsel and the lone defence
witness has been cross examined by the Ld. prosecution
counsel. After going through the prosecution evidences, | have
found that the witnesses Dr. Mouchumi Gogoi found one 6
O'Clock tear in the vagina of the victim, which suggested that
the victim had sexual intercourse. Dr. Gogoi also found that
labia majora of the victim girl was swollen and there was a
laceration of fourchette. According to Dr. Mouchumi Gogoi, the
victim girl was bleeding from her vagina at the time of

examination.

23. Dr. Nibedita Shyam of AMCH, Dibrugarh has stated that
she found the evidence of recent sexual intercourse upon the

victim girl.

24. Both the Doctors have been cross examined by the
defence counsel. The aforesaid facts have not been
10

challenged in their cross examinations. Therefore, it is proved
beyond all reasonable doubts that on 26/10/2015, the victim
was raped.

25: Now, the most pertinent question that arises is as to
whether the accused had committed forcible sexual
intercourse upon the victim girl. In his examination u/s 313
Cr.PC, the accused had admitted that on the day of occurrence
he was not drunk and he had gone to the house of Maha
Prasad Sharma to drop him only. So, it is an admitted fact that
on the day of occurrence, the accused had gone to the house
of Maha Prasad Sharma. The victim girl was cross examined by
the defence counsel. She has stated in her cross examination
that on the day of occurrence, she shouted for help and one
male person had come to the house, but she did not know his
name. The victim girl stated before the defence counsel that
she did not tell that the male person anything about the
incident. The victim has stated that she tried to wake up Maha
Prasad Sharma, but failed, as because he was drunk at that

time.

26. The witnesses Maha Prasad Sharma, Binita Sharma,
Rup Narayan Sharma, Maharaj Sharma and Rita Sharma have
also been extensively cross examined by the defence counsel.

27. The witness Maha Prasad Sharma has stated before the
defence counsel that the victim girl was not able to speak
Assamese language properly. He has admitted that apart from
being a Govt. teacher, he is also a part time business man. He
has also admitted that at the time of occurrence, his wife of
Lakhi Devi had gone to her mother's house at Biswanath
Chariali and on 28/10/2015, after she came she had gone to
AMCH, Dibrugarh to see the victim girl.
11

28. The witness Maha Prasad Sharma has further stated
before the defence counsel that on the day of occurrence, at
about 7.30 pm, he returned home and then he told the victim
girl that the accused will be come to his house and asked her
to take back the keys of his car.

29. There is nothing materials in the cross examinations of
Gopal Sonar, Binita Sharma, Rup Narayan Sharma, Maharaj
Sharma and Rita Sharma.

30. On scrupulous perusal of the prosecution evidences, |
have found that there are no contradictions or discrepancies in
the evidence of the victim girl. Neither there are any
contradictions or discrepancies in the evidences of Maha
Prasad Sharma, Binita Sharma, Rup Narayan Sharma, Maharaj
Sharma and Rita Sharma. There is nothing in their cross
examinations to hold that these witnesses have deposed false
evidence. The medical evidence has supported the evidences
of the prosecution witnesses. Hence | hereby hold that the
prosecution evidence inspired confidence. Now, | have reasons
to hold that the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim girl has been proved against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

31. In the result, the accused Surjya Upadhaya is found
guilty and accordingly he is convicted u/s 6 of the POCSO Act.

SENTENCE

52. Since long, the children have been the most
vulnerable to sexual assaults. They are always defenseless.
Our legislature had to take up the matter seriously and
enacted the POCSO Act. Persons like the convict are
12

dangerous to human society. Our children are not safe
whenever persons like the convict shall be roaming freely in
the society. | do not find any mitigating circumstances in
favour of the convict. Therefore, | have heard the convict in
the matter of sentence.

33. The convict has stated that he is a cultivator by
profession. He has his family, consisting of his wife, children
and his parents.

34. Considering the nature of the offence and the
circumstances, under which the offence was committed, |
have decided that the convict deserves to be adequately
punished. Accordingly, the convict Surjya Upadhaya_ is
sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment of 10 (Ten)
Years. The convict is also sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.
50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand Only) and in default of
payment of the fine, the convict shall undergo another period
of imprisonment of 6 (six) months. | hope this much of
sentence will be sufficient to reach the ends of justice.

COMPENSATION

35. Law has mandated that the victim of a crime must be
compensated by money, primarily for his/her rehabilitation. In
the instant case, the victim is an illiterate girl and after the
incident she has been living in a children's home. She has
suffered a mental trauma. Therefore, in order to facilitate her
rehabilitation, a compensation of Rs. 1,00,000/- (Rupees One
Lakh Only) is awarded in favour of the victim. 50% of the
compensation amount shall be kept fixed deposited in the
name of the victim till she attains majority. The other 50% of
the compensation amount shall be given to the In-Charge of
the Children's' Home, where the victim is presently residing.
13

This money shall be paid in 10 equal monthly installments.
The compensation money shall be paid by the District Legal
Service Authority, Tinsukia.

36. A free copy of the judgment be given to the convict
immediately. Another copy of the judgment shall be forwarded
to the Ld. Deputy Commissioner, Tinsukia, under the the
provision of section 365 of the Cr.PC. A copy of the judgment
Shall also be forwarded to the District Legal Service Authority,
Tinsukia.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
13th day of June, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
14

A P P EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

PW1
Pw2
Pw3
Pw4
PW5
PW6
PW7
Pws

2s PSs Pepe Pe PP

PW9

10.PW10-

11.PW11 -

Dr. Mouchumi Gogoi
Miss Junmoni Tanti

Dr. Nibedita Shyam

Sri Maha Prasad Sharma
Sri Gopal Sonar

Smti Binita Sharma

Sri Rup Narayan Sharma
Sri Maharaj Sharma
Smti Rita Sharma

Sri Pratap Gogoi, S.I.

Sri Pulak Kumar, S.I.

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1-
2. Ext. 2-
3. Ext. 3-
4 Ext. 4-
5. Ext. 5-
6 Ext. 6-
7. Ext. 7-

DEFENCE WITNESS

1.DW

Medical report
Laboratory report

Report of Forensic Medicine, AMCH,
Dibrugarh.

Ejahar
Seizure list
Sketch map
Charge sheet.

Sri Bhim Prasad Sharma

Special Judge

Tinsukia
