IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014
(G.R. Case No. 3202 of 2013)
Mariani P.S. Case No. 227 of 2013

Committing Magistrate:-

Sri A.K. Baruah,

Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate,
Titabar Sub-Division,

Jorhat District

State of Assam

Versus

Sri Ram Bhuyan,
Son of Late Gobardhan Bhuyan,
Resident of Naginijan Tea Estate Staff Line,

P.S. Mariani,

District-Jorhat. ... Accused
APPEARANCES:

For the State : Sri M.R. Barooah, Special Public Prosecutor

For the Accused: Smt. Chinu Devi, Learned State Defence Advocate

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTIONS 376 [2 OF INDIAN PENAL
CODE READ WITH SECTION 8 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN
FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of institution of the case : 20-12-2013

Date of Charge : 31-05-2014

Date of prosecution evidence : 25-08-2015; 08-09-2015; 28-03-2016;
26-05-2016

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 14-06-2016

Date of Argument : 24-06-2016 & 18-07-2016

Date of Judgment : 26-07-2016

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Mariani P.S. Case No.
227/2013 under Section 376 [2] [f]/511 of IPC read with Section 7 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was
registered on the basis of an F.I.R. lodged by Smt. Sharmila Nayak, mother of
the victim girl.

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 20/12/2013 [Exhibit-2] the
informant Smt. Sharmila Nayak [PW-3] who is the mother of the victim girl
alleged inter-alia that on 19/12/2013 accused induced the four & half years
minor girl of the informant [name not disclosed for the sake of the girl], i.e., the
victim, and took her to No-6 Section of Naginijan Tea Estate and accused
attempted to commit rape upon the victim at about 4.30 P.M. on the same day.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the In-charge, Deberapar
O.P., entered the same in its G.D. Entry vide No. 90 dated 20/12/2013 and the
same was sent to the Officer-in-charge, Mariani P.S. for registering a case under
proper sections of law. Thereafter, Officer-in-charge, Mariani P.S. received and
registered Mariani P.S. Case No. 227/2013 under Sections 376 [2]
[f]/511 of IPC read with Section 7 of The Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation the victim girl was medically
examined by the doctor, her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was
recorded. The police on completion of investigation filed charge-sheet in the case
against the above named accused Ram Bhuyan u/Ss. 376 [2] [f]/511 of IPC read
with Section 7 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 vide
Charge-sheet No. 17/2014 dated 28/02/2014.

2). The learned Magistrate after furnishing copies of the relevant
documents to the accused u/S. 207 of Cr.P.C., committed the case to this Court

for trial.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the

prosecution in this behalf, my learned predecessor-in-office finding ground for

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014
presuming that the accused has committed offences under Section 376 [2] [f] of
IPC read with Section 8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,
2012, the charges were framed, read over and explained to the accused, to

which, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 7 [seven] witnesses including the victim,
her parents, the Medical Officer and the I.0. were examined on behalf of the
prosecution to prove the charge u/S. 376 [2] [f] of IPC read with Section 8 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. and the accused stated that he has
been falsely implicated in the case. The accused pleaded innocence. No witness

was adduced by the accused in his defence.

5). I have heard Mr. Mukti Ranjan Barooah, learned Public Prosecutor
for the State as well as Smt. Chinu Devi, learned State Defence Counsel for the
accused ,who is facing trial for commission of offence u/S. 376 [2] [f] of IPC read
with Section 8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on 19/12/2013 at about 4.30 P.M. the accused induced
the minor daughter of the informant and attempted to commit
rape on the daughter of the informant and thereby committed an
offence punishable under Sections 376 [2] [f] of IPC?

2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused, named above,
committed sexual assault upon the victim girl as defined under
Section 7 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences
Act, 2012 and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 8 of the Act?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7). First of all, let me see what the relevant provisions of law states as far

as charges against accused is concerned in this case.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014
Section-375—Rape — A man is said to commit “rape” who, except in the
case hereinafter excepted, has sexual intercourse with a woman under
circumstances falling under any of the six following descriptions:-
First—Against her will.

Secondly—Without her consent.

Thirdly—With her consent, when her consent has been obtained by
putting her or any person in whom she is interested in fear of death or
of hurt.

Fourthly—With her consent, when the man knows that he is not her
husband, and that her consent is given because she believes that he is
another man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully married.
Fifthly—With her consent, when, at the time of giving such consent, by
reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication or the administration by
him personally or through another of any stupefying or unwholesome
substance, she is unable to understand the nature and consequences of
that to which she gives consent.

Sixthly—With or without her consent, when she is under sixteen years
of age.

Explanation—Penetration is_ sufficient to constitute the sexual
intercourse necessary to the offence of rape.

Exception—Sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not

being under fifteen years of age, is not rape.

Section 376 (2) (f) — Whoever, being a relative, guardian or teacher of,
Or a person in a position of trust or authority towards the woman,
commits rape on such woman; shall be punished with rigorous
imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less
than seven years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and

shall also be liable to fine.
Section 511 — Punishment for attempting to commit offences
punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment-Whoever

attempts to commit an offence punishable by this Code with

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014
[imprisonment for life] or imprisonment, or to cause such an offence to
be committed, and in such attempt does any act towards the
commission of the offence, shall, where no express provision is made
by this Code for the punishment of such attempt, be punished [with
imprisonment of any description provided for the offence, for a term
which may extend to one-half of the imprisonment for life or, as the
case may be, one-half of the longest term of imprisonment provided for
that offence], or with such fine as is provided for the offence, or with
both.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Section-7 — Whoever with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus

 

or breasts of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus
or breast of such person or any other person, or does any other act
with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration
is said to commit sexual assault.

Section-8 — Whoever commits sexual assault shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less
than three years but which may extend to imprisonment for five years,

and shall also be liable to fine.

8). To decide the above points with reference to relevant sections of law
we will have to examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses

along with the relevant documents.

9). PW-1 is Sri Jiten Nayak who is the uncle of the victim. He deposed
that mother of the victim is his elder sister and the incident occurred about one &
half years back. He further deposed that when he returned back home after
visiting his father, who was at that time admitted, at Jorhat Civil Hospital, he was
called by one boy who disclosed to him that his elder sister is quarreling with the
accused in her house and she had requested him to arrive at her house and
when he arrived at the house of his elder sister he noticed the accused being

apprehended by the villagers. Police arrived at the house of his elder sister. He

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014
accompanied his elder sister to the police station and at that time the victim was
present in her lap.

This witness was declared hostile by the prosecution and during cross-
examination by the prosecution he denied to have stated before police that —
“When he took the victim on his lap she cried in pain and thereafter she
showed him her thighs; that the victim stated before him that the
accused took her to the tea estate for walk and thereafter underneath
a tree he plied one chadar and thereafter he kneeled down on her and
committed rape upon her; thereafter she was taken back to her house
by the accused; that he alongwith villagers went to the house of
accused but he was not found present in his residence; that he fled
away from his house; that thereafter the accused was apprehended by
the villagers; that the accused confessed his crime before the villagers;
that police was informed about the incident; that the victim was taken
to Nakachari PHC for medical treatment; that he also accompanied the
victim to the hospital; that the doctors of the PHC told before them that
she has not suffered any injuries on her private part; that police
thereafter wanted to take the victim to Jorhat Medical College &
Hospital for her medical treatment but we refused”.

He further deposed that he does not have visiting terms with his elder
sister as she had eloped with another person and staying at Nakachari Chari-Ali.
He also deposed that at present the victim resides in his house.

During cross-examination, he stated that he is ignorant if the parents
of the victim are staying in the same land; that he does not know if the wife of
accused had bought the land from the mother of the victim. He admitted that he
did not question the victim regarding the incident and also did not notice any

injury over the body of the victim.

10). PW-2 is the victim girl aged seven years, who during her deposition
in Court stated that on the date of incident the accused took her to the tea
estate, directed her to sleep on the cloth which was lying on the ground of the
tea estate and thereafter the accused touched her private part. It is also stated

by the victim that the accused during the course also pressed her thighs, for

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014
which, she felt pain on being pressed by the accused with the help of his hands.
Further version of the victim is that the villagers witnessed the incident and
thereafter the accused was caught red-handed by the villagers. The victim also
stated that police took her before a doctor for medical check-up.

During cross-examination, she denied the defence suggestion that she
was tutored by her parents to depose falsely against the accused.

Hence, the evidence of the victim remained unshaked.

11). Smt. Sharmila Nayak [PW-3] who is the mother of the victim girl as
well as informant of the instant case during her deposition in Court deposed that
on the date of incident she was present at her work place and when she returned
back home she noticed her daughter crying. Her daughter stated to her that her
thighs were paining. It is her further version that her daughter stated to her that
the accused had come to their house in her absence, took her to the nearby tea
estate, directed her to sleep on the cloth which was on the ground and thereafter
pressed her thighs with his hands. After receipt of the information from her
daughter she went to the house of accused in search of him and found him
sleeping in the house of one Bablu. She slapped the accused twice and thereafter
some villagers came near her and asked the accused why he had committed the
aforesaid crime. Someone informed the police and police arrived at her house,
took her daughter to a doctor for medico-legal check-up and thereafter she
lodged ejahar before police. She further divulged that she gave her statement
before the Magistrate wherein she put her thumb impression.

During cross-examination, she confirmed that she did not sold her land
to the accused. She denied that she had enmity with the accused and hence
lodged false case against him.

She denied all the defence suggestions put to her during cross-

examination.

12). The evidence of Smt. Arati Nayak [PW-4] is that she knows the
accused as well as the informant Smt. Sharmila Nayak [PW-3]. It is also stated
by her that when she returned back home at about 4.00 P.M. she heard shouts

and altercation coming out from the house of the informant at about 6.00 P.M.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014
The informant together with her daughter arrived at her residence and in her
presence the informant questioned the victim about the incident, to which, the
victim disclosed that on the relevant day the accused had taken her to the tea
estate, directed her to sleep on the cloth which was on the ground and thereafter
the accused pressed her thighs with his both hands. The accused was
apprehended by the boys of our tea estate.

During cross-examination, she admitted that the accused was
sleeping under influence of liquor in the house compound of one Bablu. She

denied all the defence suggestions put to her during cross-examination.

13). Sri Pobon Nayak [PW-5] also deposed in the same tune as that of
Smt. Arati Nayak [PW-4]. Further, he deposed that he heard shouts of the
informant and witnessed the informant speaking in loud voice alongwith the
accused and when he heard about the incident from the informant he slapped
the accused twice on his face. It is his further version that mother of the victim
disclosed before him that accused had physically molested her daughter. At that
time the accused was kneeling his head at the place of incident where he was
apprehended by the villagers.

During cross-examination, he admitted that he suspect that the

mother of the victim had lodged false case against the accused.

14). Md. Sahabuddin Ahmed [PW-6] who was posted at Nakachari
Primary Health Center as Medical Officer,Ayurveda, examined the victim on
11/02/2014 as per police requisition and on examination he found no injury mark
on the body of the victim.

The doctor opined the age of the victim as 4 2 years at the time of
examination. The doctor exhibited his report as Exhibit-1 and his signature
Exhibit-1 [1].

Defence side declined to cross-examine the doctor.
15). Sri Udhab Chandra Patowary [PW-7], investigating officer,

deposed during his testimony that on 19/12/2013 while he was serving as In-

charge, Deberapar O.P. under Mariani P.S., on that day he received information

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014
that accused Ram Bhuyan had committed rape upon a minor girl and the
accused has been badly assaulted by the villagers for the aforesaid act. The
information was entered in General Diary Register. He visited the place of
occurrence and witnessed about 60/70 people present who were assaulting the
accused. He alongwith the help of Gaonburha and some local people took the
accused in his possession after requesting them not to assault the accused. The
victim alongwith her mother as well as her uncle were taken to the O.P.
alongwith the accused and thereafter the victim was sent before a doctor for
medico-legal check-up. After giving first-aid to her she was shifted to Jorhat
Medical College & Hospital but the victim refused to go there as she was badly
afraid. The mother of the victim namely Smt. Sharmila Nayak was produced
before the Magistrate for recording of her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
As the victim was aged 4 % years, hence she was not produced before the
Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. The informant
lodged ejahar before him which he exhibited as Exhibit-2 and his endorsement
with signature as Exhibit-2 [1]. He also exhibited the signature of the then
Officer-in-charge, Mariani P.S. to be Exhibit-2 [2]. He further deposed that he
drew Sketch Map of the place of occurrence which he exhibited Exhibit-3. After
completion of investigation he submitted charge-sheet against the accused.

He confirmed the statement of Sri Jiten Nayak [PW-1] that —
“When he took the victim on his lap she cried in pain and thereafter she
showed him her thighs; that the victim stated before him that the
accused took her to the tea estate for walk and thereafter underneath
a tree he plied one chadar and thereafter he kneeled down on her and
committed rape upon her; thereafter she was taken back to her house
by the accused; that he alongwith villagers went to the house of
accused but he was not found present in his residence; that he fled
away from his house; that thereafter the accused was apprehended by
the villagers; that the accused confessed his crime before the villagers;
that police was informed about the incident; that the victim was taken
to Nakachari PHC for medical treatment; that he also accompanied the
victim to the hospital; that the doctors of the PHC told before them that

she has not suffered any injuries on her private part; that police

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014
10

thereafter wanted to take the victim to Jorhat Medical College &
Hospital for her medical treatment but we refused”.
During cross-examination, he denied all the defence suggestions put

to him.

16). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that
nowhere in the statement of the victim [PW-2] who is the star witness of the
instant case has stated that the accused had committed rape upon her. Rather,
the victim has divulged that on the date of incident the accused took her to the
nearby tea estate, directed her to sleep on the cloth which was lying on the
ground of the tea estate and thereafter the accused touched her private part.
She further deposed that the accused also pressed her thighs with his hands for
which she felt pain. The villagers witnessed the incident. Thereafter the accused
was caught red-handed by the villagers. This piece of evidence could not be

shaken by the defence at the time of cross-examination.

17). Learned counsel for the accused has argued that the mother of the
victim had enmity with the accused and hence she lodged false case against him.
It is further contended that the victim had been tutored by her mother to depose
against the accused. It is also submitted that the mother of the victim as well as
other witnesses namely Smt. Arati Nayak [PW-4] and Sri Pobon Nayak [PW-5]

were reported witnesses.

18). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. had
taken the plea that he had been falsely implicated by the informant for the crime
which he has not committed. However, defence side nowhere took the plea that

the victim was tutored by her mother to depose falsely against him.

19). It is an admitted fact that the investigating officer of the instant
case has not seized any birth certificate or school certificate of the victim from
her parents to prove that the victim is a child/minor less than 18 [eighteen] years
as on the date of commission of offence. In the case of Jarnail Singh —versus-
State of Haryana, Criminal Appeal No. 1209/2010 decided on

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014

10
11

01/07/2013, the Hon'ble Apex Court held that Rule 12 of Juvenile Justice [Care
and Protection of Children] Rules, 2007 would be applicable while determining
age even for child, who is victim of the crime. The said rule is as follows:

“12. Procedure to be followed in determination of age.

iii. | In every case concerning a child or juvenile in conflict with law, the age of
determination inquiry shall be conducted by the court or the Board or, as
the case may be, the Committee by seeking evidence by obtaining-

a) [i] the date of birth certificate from the school [other than a play school]

first attended; and in the absence whereof;

[ii] the birth certificate given by a Corporation or a Municipal Authority or

a Panchayat;

[iii] the Matriculation or equivalent certificates, if available;
And only in the absence of either [i], [ii] or [iii] of clause [a] above, the medical
opinion will be sought from a duly constituted Medical Board, which will declare
the age of the juvenile or child. In case exact assessment of the age cannot be
done, the Court or Board or, as the case may be, the Committee, for the reasons
to be recorded by them, may, if considered necessary, give benefit to the child or
juvenile by considering his/her age on lower side within the margin of one year
and, while passing orders in such case shall, after taking into consideration such
evidence as may be juvenile, or the medical opinion, as the case may be, record
a finding in respect of his/her age and either of the evidence specified in any of
the clauses [a] [i], [ii], [iii] or in the absence whereof, clause [b] shall be
conclusive proof of the age as regards such child or the juvenile in conflict with

law.

20). In the present case, since document as prescribed under rule 12 (3)
(a) are not available, the prosecution has relied upon Exhibit-1, the report of
doctor Md. Sahabuddin Ahmed [PW-6], according to which, the age of the victim
is 4 Y% years. There is nothing placed on record to create a doubt about the
bone/medical age of the victim child as determined by the Medical Officer. From

the cross-examination of the doctor it is no where seen that the opinion

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014

11
12

regarding age of the victim was not a conclusive report. So, as per Section 2 (d)
of The Protection of Children From Sexual offences Act, 2012, the victim is below

18 [eighteen] years of age at the time of incident.

21). It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole evidence of a
child witness is permissible, if such witness is found competent to testify and the
court, after careful scrutiny of its evidence.

In the case of Datttu Ramrao Sakhare-versus-State of
Maharashtra, reported in [1997] 5 SCC 341, the Hon’ble Apex Court has held
that — “A child witness if found competent to depose to the facts and
reliable one, such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other
words, even in the absence of oath, the evidence of a child witness can
be considered under Section 118 of Indian Evidence Act, provided that
such witness is able to understand the questions and able to give
rational answers thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility
thereof would depend upon the circumstance of each case. The only
precaution which the court should bear in mind while assessing the
evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be reliable one and
his/her demeanor must be like any other competent witness and there

is no likelihood of being tutored”.

22). In another case, i.e., Pancchi —versus- State of Uttar Pradesh,
AIR 1998 SC 2726, the Hon’ble Apex Court has held that — “It is not the law
that if a witness is a child, his/her evidence shall be rejected, even if it
is found reliable, The law is that evidence of a child witness must be
evaluated more carefully and with greater circumspection because a
child is susceptible to be swayed by what others tell them and this child

witness is easy prey to tutoring”.

23). The ratio as laid down in the above case is that the testimony of a
child witness is attributed the same kind of credibility that it attached to the
statement of any other witness if the testimony is consistent. In the present

case, the victim has been consistent on the material particulars with regard to

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014

12
13

the incident. Further, there is full corroboration by her mother, i.e., PW-3 and

independent witnesses namely [PW-4 & PW-5].

24). On scrutinizing the evidence on record it is seen that no case has
been made out against accused Ram Bhuyan to warrant his conviction under
Section 376 [2] [f] IPC beyond all reasonable doubt, for which, I am of the
opinion that the accused is entitled to acquittal under benefit of doubt which I

accordingly do.

25). Though it was argued on behalf of the accused that he has been
falsely implicated in the instant case by the mother of the victim due to land
dispute and the victim had been tutored by her to depose falsely against him, but
the accused has failed to discharge the onus of proving that he has been falsely
implicated in the case due to enmity or any other reason. The mother of the
victim, i.e., PW-3 has categorically deposed in cross-examination that she has no
previous enmity with the accused to falsely implicate him in the instant case. In
the light of the evidence of the victim [PW-2] as well as her mother [PW-3], this
court can presume under Section 29 of The Prevention of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 that it was the accused, who had committed sexual assault
upon the victim and sexual intent required as per Section 7 of POCSO Act, 2012
can also be presumed in the light of Section 30 of the Act. It was for the accused
to rebut that neither he had any sexual intent nor he had committed the offence
by proving to the contrary. No evidence was led by the accused in his defence to
prove his innocence. On the contrary, the defence put forwarded by the accused

in this case is not consistent and therefore, same is required to be disbelieved.

26). The accused was charged under Section 4 of The Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. However, from the evidence tendered
by the victim [PW-1] it can be safely presumed that the offence committed by
the accused falls under Section 7 of the Act which reads as follows:

7. Sexual assault — Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis,
anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or

breast of such person or any other person, or does any other act with sexual

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014

13
14

intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit

sexual assault.

27). The punishment for sexual assault is laid down under Section 8 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 which states as
follows:

8. Punishment for sexual assault — Whoever, commits sexual assault, shall
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be
less than three years but which may extend to five years, and shall also be liable

to fine.

28). In view of my aforesaid discussions in the foregoing paragraphs, I
am of the opinion that prosecution has proved the case against accused Ram
Bhuyan under Section 7 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and he is liable to be punished
as per provision of Section 8 of the Act. Hence, the accused is convicted under
Section 7 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

29). Accused Sri Ram Bhuyan is heard on the point of sentence. The
accused has submitted that he has his wife and children and there is none to

look after them in his absence. Hence, the accused prayed for leniency.

30). I have heard Smt. Chinu Devi, learned State Defence Counsel for
the accused as well as Sri Mukti Ranjan Barooah, learned Special Public
Prosecutor, Jorhat.

Considering all aspect, accused Sri Ram Bhuyan is sentenced to
undergo SIMPLE IMPRISONMENT FOR 3 [three] years and also to pay a fine
of Rs. 2,000/- [Rupees Two Thousand], in-default of payment of fine, to
suffer SIMPLE IMPRISONMENT for 1 [one] month more. I am of considered
opinion that considering the nature of offence, this sentence shall do justice.

The period of detention already undergone by the accused during
investigation and trial shall be set off from the period of imprisonment imposed

on him.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014

14
15

31). Now coming to the aspect of compensation to the victim, who is a
minor girl, the Hon’ble Apex Court has time to time observed that subordinate
courts trying the offences of sexual assault have the jurisdiction to award the
compensation to the victims being an offence against the basic human right and
violative of Article 21 of the Indian Constitution.

In the case of Bodhisattwa Gautam -—versus- Subhra
Chakraborty, AIR 1996 SC 922, it has been held by the Hon’ble Apex Court
that the jurisdiction to pay compensation has to be treated to be a part of the
overall jurisdiction of the courts trying the offences of rape, which is an offence
against basic human rights as also the Fundamental Rights of Personal Liberty &
Life.

32). The concept of welfare and well being of children is basic for any
civilized society and this has a direct bearing on the state of health and well
being of the entire community, its growth and development. It has been time
and again emphasized in various legislations, international declarations as well as
the judicial pronouncements that the Children are a “supremely important
national asset” and the future well being of the nation depends on how its
children grow and develop. Therefore, in order to provide restorative and
compensatory justice to the victim, I hereby direct the learned Secretary,
District Legal Services Authority, Jorhat, to grant adequate compensation
to the victim. The said amount shall be used by the parents of the victim for her

welfare and education.

33). Free copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused immediately.
Another copy of this order be sent to the District Magistrate, Jorhat,
as per provision of Section 365 Cr.P.C.
Let a copy of this judgment be sent to the learned Secretary,

D.L.S.A., Jorhat, for information and necessary action.
34). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 26th day of July
2016.

Special Judge, Jorhat

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014

15
16

ANNEXURES:-

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PW-1 Sri Jiten Nayak, employee of Naginijan T.E.

PW-2 Victim girl.

PW-3 Smt. Sharmila Nayak, informant as well as mother
of the victim.

PW-4 Smt. Arati Nayak, neighbour of informant.

PW-5 Sri Pobon Nayak, neighbour.

PW-6 Md. Sahabuddin Ahmed, Medical Officer.

PW-7 Sri Udhab Chandra Patowary, I.O. of the case.

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Medical Report

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index.
DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014

16
SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2014

17

17
