Page 1 of 7

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 10/14

Informant: | Smti. Gulapi Munda,
W/o- Late Jiten Munda,
R/o- Alubari,
PS- Dibrugrarh,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: (1) = Sri Anup Munda @ Bhumba,
S/o- Sri Gulap Munda,
R/o- Alubari, Borbari,
PS- Dibrugarh,
District- Dibrugarh.

(2) Sri Lakhinath Karmakar,
S/o- Late Bhusan Karmakar,
R/o- Phanibanglow, Borbari,
PS- Dibrugarh,
District- Dibrugarh.

(3) Sri Santosh Ray,
S/o- Late Mahendra Ray,
R/o- Paltanbazar, Bashugudam,
PS- Dibrugarh,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: , learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 7

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 10/14
G.R. Case No. 1031/14

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Anup Munda @ Bhumba & others

Charge u/S 4/18 Protection of Children from Sexual Offices Act.

Date of evidence on : 30-07-15 & 28-08-15.
Date of argument : 30-09-15.
Date of Judgment —_: 30-09-15.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that the accused persons, namely, Sri Anup Munda @
Bhumba, Sri Santosh Ray and Sri Lakhinath Karmakar had gone to the house
of the alleged victim for drinking country liquor which was being sold by the
mother of the victim. During their visit, the accused persons attempted to
commit rape upon the victim. The First Information Report was lodged by the
mother of the alleged victim and investigation commenced. In course of such
investigation, the victim was medically examined and after completion of
investigation, the Investigating Officer submitted Charge-Sheet.
Upon committal, this Court framed charges under Sections 4/18 of Protection
of Children From Sexual Offences Act (hereinafter PCSO Act) against the
accused persons and the charges were read over and explained to the
accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined six witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused persons were examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused persons took the plea of denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and learned counsel for the
defence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

1. Whether the prosecutrix was a child within the meaning of Section
Page 3 of 7

2(d) of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(hereinafter ‘the Act’)?
2. Whether the accused persons attempted to commit penetrative sexual
assault upon the alleged victim?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

5)

6)

7)

8)

As per medical evidence adduced by PW-1 Dr. Nibedita Shyam, the age of the
victim was above 14 (fourteen) years and below 16 (sixteen) years at the
time of her examination. Defence declined to cross-examine the medical
officer. Therefore, from the evidence of the medical officer, it is established

that the victim was a child at the time of occurrence.

Point No. 2:

PW-2, the victim deposed that she knew the accused persons since the date
of occurrence. On the day of occurrence, the accused persons came to their
house for having Hajpani (a kind of house made liquor). At first, the accused
persons wanted water from her, but she did not provide water to them. Then,
one of the accused persons caught her waist, who was standing in front of
her. Her elder sister saw the incident and asked the accused whether they
had come to the house for having hajpani or creating the nuisance. In the
mean time, her elder brother Sri Suraj Munda arrived at the house and
knowing about the occurrence, he raised halla. Accordingly, many persons
gathered in their house and apprehended the accused persons. Her elder
brother and public assaulted the accused persons. At that time, her mother
also arrived at the house. Her elder brother as well as the public took the
accused persons to the police station and handed them over to police. On the
same day, she went to the police station along with her mother.

PW-2 identified the accused Sri Santosh Ray as the person who had caught
hold of her. During cross-examination, she stated that she did not know the
name of the accused person.

PW-3 Smti. Gulapi Munda deposed that she knew the accused Sri Anup
Munda @ Bhuma, but do not know the other accused persons. The alleged
victim girl is her daughter. At the time of occurrence, the age of her victim
daughter was 16 years. The alleged incident took place about one year back.
At the time of occurrence, she was not present in the house. At the time of

occurrence, when she was at her workplace, in the evening time, one boy of
9)

Page 4 of 7

their locality went to her and reported that one boy entered into their house
and she had to go to their house. Accordingly, she went back to their house.
Her granddaughter Niki told her that Sri Santosh Rai entered into the house
and tried to lift the skirt of the victim. Her younger daughter Priyanka saw the
incident and she raised halla. Her son Suraj caught the three accused persons
and took them to the police station. She as well as Niki and Priyanka went to
the police station along with Suraj. Police recorded her statement as well as
Niki, Priyanka and Suraj. During cross-examination PW-3 stated that she did
not file any written paper at the police station. Police personnel went to their
line with a written paper and she put her thumb impression on the same. She
does not know the contents of the said paper whereon she had put her
thumb impression. She further stated that on getting the information, when
she arrived at the house, she met only Priya and Priyanka and except them,
she did not meet any other person in the house. Though Priyanka told her
about the occurrence, she did not state the same to any other person or
police. PW-3 stated that the houses of VDP President and Secretary are
situated near their house, but she did not tell them anything about the
occurrence. She further stated that she stated before the Court on the basis
of what Priyanka told her about the occurrence.

PW-5, sister of the alleged victim deposed as an eye-witness to the
occurrence and stated that the accused Sri Santosh Ray had asked water
from her elder sister and when she was about to give him water, the accused
Sri Santosh Ray had lifted the skirt of her sister. But during cross-
examination, she stated that on the day of occurrence, she had gone to
school and after the incident, she came from school and entering the house,
she found her sister crying and came to know about the occurrence from her.

Therefore, it is apparent that PW-5 is not an eye-witness to the occurrence.

10) PW-6 Smti. Niki Munda is not an eye-witness to the occurrence. She deposed

that on the day of occurrence, at about 3:00 pm, she was in her house. At
that time, Smti. Priyanka Munda called her by shouting that one boy had
entered into her house. She alone went to her house immediately. Arriving at
her house, she saw the accused Ari Santosh Rai coming out from inside her
house and other two accused were waiting outside the house (the witness
pointed to the accused Sri Santosh Rai). She asked the accused Sri Santosh

Rai as to why he had entered into the house of the victim and he replied that
Page 5 of 7

he had gone inside the house for drinking water. She entered into the house
of the victim and saw that the victim was crying. She asked the victim as to
why she was crying. The victim replied that the accused Sri Santosh Rai
caught hold of her hands and lifted her skirt.

11) At this stage, it may be noticed that the alleged victim had deposed that the
accused Sri Santosh Ray had caught her by her waist while standing in front
of her. She mentioned nothing about the accused lifting her skirt. Therefore,
the version of PW-6 & PW-5 regarding the victim having reported to them
that the accused Sri Santosh Ray lifted her skirt appears to be contradictory.
Even the informant and mother of the victim deposed whatever she had head
about the occurrence, was from her other two daughters and not from the
victim and the said two other daughters, i.e., PWs-5 & 6 are not eye-witness
to the occurrence. Therefore, the evidence of the informant is purely hearsay.
There is nothing in the evidence to show that the accused persons or any one
of them had attempted to commit penetrative sexual assault upon the victim.
If the sole testimony of the victim is to be believed, the accused Sri Santosh
Ray had caught her waist and in order to constitute sexual assault as defined
in Section 7 of the Act, it is necessary that the victim should be touched with
sexual intent. It cannot be a matter of presumption that simply holding a little
girl by the waist ipso facto displays presence of sexual intent, in absence of
any other evidence in this regard.

12)In view of the aforesaid contradictions and deficiency in the prosecution
evidence, I am unable to hold that the prosecution has succeeded even in
establishing the ingredients of sexual assault, late alone of attempt to commit
penetrative sexual assault. The point is answered accordingly.

13)In the result, I hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its case
beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused persons are
acquitted of the offence under Sections 4/18 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offices Act and they be set at liberty forthwith.

14) The bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6 (six) months
under Section 437-A CrPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 30" day of
September, 2015.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Page 6 of 7
Page 7 of 7

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 Dr. Nibedita Shyam;
2. PW-2 Smti. Priya Munda;
3. PW-3 Smti. Gulapi Munda;
4. PW-4 Sri Suraj Munda;
5. PW-5 Smti. Priyanka Munda; and
6. PW-6 Smti. Niki Munda.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Medical Report.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
