Page 1 of 10

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel forthe Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

18 of 2016
(Under Section 10 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 1428/16 of
2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Anup Kumar Tiwari
Son of Sri Nand:Kishore Tiwari
Of 1812 Poineer Unit, Solmara,
Police Station.— Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
03-02-2017

20-02-2017 & 28-06-2017

05-07-2017.

05-07-2017.

05-07-2017.

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. S.E. Alam, Sr. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Anup Kumar Tiwari is put for trial for allegation

of charge u/s 10 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on 07-05-2016

at about 6 p.m. the accused came to the informant’s quarter along with his

children. During that time, the informant’s daughter was in the first floor. She
Page 2 of 10

was busy in playing with other colleagues and friends. The accused by holding
the hands of the daughter of the informant, asking her to come to the ground
floor to play with his children. But the informant’s daughter out of fear fled
away and while her mother arrived from CSD Cantee she narrated the whole
story to her. On arrival of the informant at the evening time from duty his wife
reported the whole incident to him. Accordingly, informant Amit Tyagi filed this
ejahar before the I/C of Salonibari Out Post on 09-05-2016.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the I/C of Salonibari Police Out
Post by giving the GD Entry No. 320 dated 09-05-2016 and forwarded the same
to O/C Tezpur Police Station. On receipt of the said ejahar; O/C, Pezpur Police
Station registered Tezpur P.S. Case No. 777/16 under section’448/354/506 of
the IPC read with section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012. After completion of usual
investigation, the O/C Tezpur Police Station filed\charge sheet under section
448/506 of the IPC read with section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012 against the

accused Sri Anup Kumar Tiwari.

4. On being appeared the accused”before this Court, after hearing both
parties, framed charge under section 10 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the
accused Sri Anup Kumar“Tiwari and particulars of the charge was read over,

explained to the accused to which he pleads not guilty and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution has examined five numbers of
witnesses. After completion of said witnesses learned counsel for the accused
submitted to»close the evidence on the ground that the statement of the
complainant and other witnesses including the victim and her friends no way
supported the prosecution case. Therefore, it would be futile to examine the
other witnesses. Learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur has also

conceded.

6. On scrutiny of the statements of the prosecution witnesses which
includes the complainant, victim and other material witnesses, it appears that
none of the witnesses supported the prosecution case against the accused.
Hence, I think with the evidence of the said witnesses, prosecution case would

not develop even if examined the other witnesses. Speedy trial is the right of

 
Page 3 of 10

the accused person. Considering these aspects, prosecution evidence is closed.
Accused is examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the
accused and evidence appears against the accused are put before him for

explanation where he denied the allegations and declined to adduce defence

evidence.
7. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of both
sides.
8. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on or about 6 p.m. of 07-05-2016, at Solmara, under

Tezpur Police station the accused committed aggravated sexual

assault on "Miss X” (victim), a minor girl below the.age of 12 years,

and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 10 of

the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.
9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on
record.

10. PW 1 Nitu Singh, stated that she knows the accused. She knows a girl
named Taru who used to reside in a block opposite to their block. At the time
of incident she went to*shopping along with the mother of Taru. After arrival at
home Taru’s mami told her something but she cannot recall what she exactly
told. The children who were accompanied with Taru told them that uncle
(accused) came and after playing with them he left. Police has only asked her

name and address. Other than that police did not ask me anything.

In cross-examination, she admitted that they returned from shopping at
about 6 p.m. On their arrival they have seen all the children were playing
including Taru. The children told them that uncle (accused) also brought his
children with him to play. Previously accused used to reside in the said block.
Taru and her family came to the quarter which is adjacent to their quarter.
Previously, the accused occupied that quarter. Accused came with his children

to return some utensils.

 
Page 4 of 10

11. PW 2 Miss Pallak Kumari who was examined after questioning her to
test her intelligence, stated that she knows the accused (Uncle). She also
knows Taru. The incident took place in the evening when their school was over.
During that time she along with many students were playing which includes
Taru and Nisha. At that time uncle (accused) came to return his utensils to
Taru. There was no quarrel took place. Uncle along with his children was

playing and then he left with his children. Taru was also playing.

In cross-examination, he admitted that during that time at the down
stair all the children were playing including Taru. Uncle hand over'the utensil to
Taru and she went to upstair to keep utensil then she again came down and
again playing. During that time uncle (accused) was in the down stairs. Uncle
also brought his children to play with them. After\playing he left with his

children. Nothing happened during the time when uncle was there.

12. PW 3 Sri Amit Tyagi stated that he .Knows the accused A.K. Tiwari. Victim
is his daughter. The incident occurred.on 07-05-2016 at about 6/6.30 p.m.
During that time he was posted as.a sipoy at 5104 ASC Bn, C/O 99 APO located
at Solmara. By virtue of service at the relevant time he resides at official
quarter at Solmara i.e. 24/2. At the time of incident he was on his duty. At 9.30
p.m. while he returned to the quarter, his wife Smti Rina Devi informed him
that while she was) not at quarter accused came to their quarter to play his
children with their children. During that time the accused forced their child
namely Miss X and Arnav to come to ground floor for play with his son and
daughter. During that time, accused also forced other children to come down
the=ground floor to play with his children. On hearing about the incident, he
become angry and on the next day he filed the ejahar before the I/C Salonibari
Out Post. Ext. 1 is the said FIR and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. The ejahar was
written by him. Actually due to misunderstanding he filed this case. In fact no

such alleged incident took place.

In cross-examination, he admitted that as he was angry so he
approached police and wrote the ejahar at the instance of police of Salonibari
Police Out Post.

 
Page 5 of 10

13. PW 4 Smt. Rina Tyag, the mother of the victim, stated that she knows
the accused A.K. Tiwari. The incident occurred in the year 2016 in the evening.
At the relevant time, she went to CSD Canteen to purchase some materials.
During that time her husband was on duty. After arrival in the quarter her
children told that uncle i.e. accused came to their quarter and forced her
children to come down to ground floor for playing with his son and daughter.
Lateron her husband came and her children reported him about«the facts.
Thereafter, her husband filed this case against the accused person. Actually,
due to misunderstanding her husband filed this case. She*does \not want to

further proceed the case as her children told nothing happen.more than this.

14. PW 5 Miss X, the victim of this case, stated that the she knows the
accused A.K. Tiwari. The incident occurred in the year 2016 in the evening. At
the relevant time they were residing «at. Solmara at quarter. One day,
accused/uncle came to their house, with his children to play with them in
absence of her parents. He forced them-to come down to the ground floor to
play with his children. They<refused but he insisted them to play with his
children. When her parents ‘arrived at quarter, they reported the matter to her

parents. Her father became angry and filed this case against the accused.

15. These muchvisthe evidence of the prosecution. Accused pleads total

denial while-his.statement was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

16. « Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the statement of the
victim, complainant and other witnesses particularly, PW 2 who was alleged to
have’ been playing with the victim at the relevant time, stated nothing against
the accused as to the any of the alleged offence. Hence, praying for acquitting

the accused. Learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur also conceded.

17. Since, the case is charged u/s 10 of the POCSO Act, I think, it would be

better to what ingredients required to prove the said charge.

18. To brought the charge under section 10 of the Protection of Child from
Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, prosecution must prove that —

 
Section 9 - Aggravated sexual assault

(a) Whoever, being a police officer, commits sexual
assault on a child—

(i) within the limits of the police station or
premises where he is appointed; or

(ii) in the premises of any station house
whether or not situated in the police station to
which he is appointed; or

(iii) in the course of his duties or otherwise; or.

(iv) where he is known as, or identified as-a
police officer; or

(b) whoever, being a member of the armed forces or
security forces, commits sexual assault on a.child--

(i) within the limits of the area to which the
person is deployed; or

(ii) in any areas under the command of the
security or armed forces; or

(iii) in the course of his duties or otherwise; or

(iv) where .he ‘is known or identified as a
member of the.security or armed forces; or

(c) whoever being a public servant commits sexual
assault on.a child; or

(d) whoever being on the management or on the
staff.of.a jail, or remand home or protection home or
observation home, or other place of custody or care
and protection established by or under any law for
the time being in force commits sexual assault on a
child being inmate of such jail or remand home or
protection home or observation home or other place
of custody or care and protection; or

(e) whoever being on the management or staff of a
hospital, whether Government or private, commits
sexual assault on a child in that hospital; or

(f) whoever being on the management or staff of an
educational institution or _ religious institution,
commits sexual assault on a child in that institution;
or

(g) whoever commits gang sexual assault on a child.

Page 6 of 10

 
Explanation.--when a child is subjected to
sexual assault by one or more persons of a
group in furtherance of their common
intention, each of such persons shall be
deemed to have committed gang _ sexual
assault within the meaning of this clause and
each of such person shall be liable for that act
in the same manner as if it were done by him
alone; or

(h) whoever commits sexual assault on a child using
deadly weapons, fire, heated substance or corrosive
substance; or

(i) whoever commits sexual assault causing grievous
hurt or causing bodily harm and injury or injury\to
the sexual organs of the child; or

Gj) whoever commits sexual assault on a _ child,
which--

(i) physically incapacitates the child or causes
the child to become mentally ill as defined
under clause (Il) of section 2 of the Mental
Health Act, 1987(14 of 1987) or causes
impairment of any.kind so as to render the
child unable’\to \ perform regular tasks,
temporarily or permanently; or

(ii) inflicts the child — with Human
Immunodeficiency Virus or any other life
threatening disease or infection which may
either temporarily or permanently impair the
child by rendering him physically
incapacitated, or mentally ill to perform
regular tasks; or

(k) whoever, taking advantage of a child's mental or
physical disability, commits sexual assault on the
child; or

(1) whoever commits sexual assault on the child
more than once or repeatedly; or

(m) whoever commits sexual assault on a child
below twelve years; or

(n) whoever, being a relative of the child through
blood or adoption or marriage or guardianship or in
foster care, or having domestic relationship with a
parent of the child, or who is living in the same or

Page 7 of 10

 
Page 8 of 10

shared household with the child, commits sexual
assault on such child; or

(o) whoever, being in the ownership or management
or staff, of any institution providing services to the
child, commits sexual assault on the child in such
institution; or

(p) whoever, being in a position of trust or authority
of a child, commits sexual assault on the child in an
institution or home of the child or anywhere else; or

(q) whoever commits sexual assault on a child
knowing the child is pregnant; or

(r) whoever commits sexual assault on a child and
attempts to murder the child; or

(s) whoever commits sexual assault ona child’in the
course of communal or sectarian violance;\or

(t) whoever commits sexual assault.on a child and
who has been previously convicted of having
committed any offence under thisyAct or any sexual
offence punishable under-any other law for the time
being in force; or

(u) whoever commits.sexual assault on a child and
makes the child to_strip or parade naked in public, is
said to commit.aggravated sexual assault.

19. In this type of case, the most important witness is the victim. Here in
the present case as ‘stated herein before, the victim stated nothing against the
accused. She simply stated that at the relevant time accused/uncle came to
their house with his children to play with them in absence of her parents. He
forced them to come down to the ground floor to play with his children. They
refused but he insisted them to play with his children. When her parents
arrived at quarter, they reported the matter to her parents. Her father became
angry and filed this case against the accused. Even the complainant PW 3
stated so. He stated that at the relevant time at about 9.30 p.m. while he
returned to the quarter from the duty, he was reported about the incident by
his wife that accused forced his children i,e, the victim and Arnav to come to
ground floor for play with his son and daughter. On hearing about the incident,
he become angry and on the next day he filed the ejahar before the I/C

Salonibari Out Post. He clearly stated that actually due to misunderstanding he

 
Page 9 of 10

filed this case. In fact no such alleged incident took place. By that way, the
complainant has also goodbye to the prosecution case. The other material
witness i.e. PW 2 who was playing with the victim at the relevant time stated
that at the relevant time many students were playing which includes Taru and
Nisha. . At that time uncle (accused) came to return his utensils to Taru. There
was no quarrel took place. Uncle along with his children was playing and then
he left with his children. Taru was also playing. This witness has also not
supported the prosecution case any way. In fact this much is the evidence of
the complainant, victim and other material witnesses. From the statements of

the aforesaid witnesses, nothing was revealed against the accused

20. Therefore, in view of the aforesaid evidence. of..the prosecution
witnesses, I have no hesitation to hold that the prosecution has failed to prove
any ingredients of alleged offence against the accused Sri Anup Kumar Tiwari.

Under such circumstances, I acquit him andSet him at liberty forthwith.
21. ‘The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.
Returned the GR Case No. 1428/16.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 5" day of July,
2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4

Prosecution Witness No.5

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 1(1)

Page 10 of 10

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- Smt. Nitu Singh

- Miss Pallak Kumari

= Sri Amit Tyagi, complainant
i Smt. Rina Tyagi

= Victim.

EXHIBITS.

= FIR

' Signature of the complainant.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
