IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present : Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016
(G.R. Case No. 3165 of 2016)
Jorhat P.S. Case No. 2280 of 2016

Transmitting Magistrate:-

Smt. Rani Boro,
In-charge, Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat District

State of Assam

Versus

Sri Hemanta Kumar Das,

Son of Late Mohan Das,

Resident of Itakhuli, Garmur,

P.S. Jorhat,

District-Jorhat. ... Accused

APPEARANCES:

For the State : Sri M.R. Barooah,
Senior Advocate-cum-Special Public Prosecutor,
Jorhat

For the Accused: Smt. Rupali Rai Baruah,
Learned State Defence Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 376 [1] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 6 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM
SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 07-01-2017
Date of prosecution evidence : 27-01-2017; 28-02-2017; 15-03-2017;

24-03-2017; 05-04-2017 & 18-04-2017
Statement of Accused
Recorded on : 04-05-2017

SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016
Date of Argument : 08-05-2017
Date of Judgment : 19-05-2017

JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Jorhat P.S. Case No.
2280/2016 under Section 376 [i] of IPC read with Section 6 of The Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was registered on the basis of a F.I.R.
lodged by the victim girl [hereinafter referred to as ‘X’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 21/10/2016 [Exhibit-2] the victim girl
alleged, inter-alia, that in the month of August, 2016 when her mother was not
present in the house, her father, i.e., the accused, committed rape upon her. It is
further stated by the informant in her ejahar that in the event she cried “Ma-Ma’
out of pain. It is further alleged by the informant that the accused threatened her
with dire consequence if she divulge the fact to anybody. Further, it is stated in
the ejahar by the informant that the accused also quarreled with her mother on
different occasion and thereafter chasing her mother out of the residence, the
accused tried to commit rape upon her, for which, she somehow fled away from
the house.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the In-charge, Garmur O.P.
under Jorhat P.S. the same was entered in General Diary Register vide No. 321
dated 21/10/2016. The ejahar was sent to Officer-in-charge, Jorhat P.S. for
registration of a case. The Officer-in-charge, Jorhat P.S., registered Jorhat P.S.
Case No. 2280/2016 under Section 376 [i] of IPC read with Section 6 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was medically
examined by the doctor, her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was
recorded. Police on completion of investigation filed charge-sheet, in the case,
against the above named accused Hemanta Kumar Das u/S. 376 [i] of IPC read
with Section 6 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 vide
Charge-sheet No. 937/2013 dated 11-11-2016.

2). The learned In-charge, Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jorhat, transmitted the

case to this Court for trial. Copy was furnished to the accused in due course.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016
3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the
prosecution in this behalf, charges were accordingly framed under Section 376
[1] of IPC read with Section 6 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012. The charges were read over and explained to the accused, to
which, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

Prior to the framing of charge learned counsel Smt. Rupali Rai
Baruah was appointed as Defence Counsel on state expenses as accused was too

poor to engage a counsel for him for his defence.

4). During the course of trial, 10 [ten] numbers of witnesses including
the victim, her mother, Medical Officer and the I.O. were examined on behalf of
the prosecution to prove the charge u/Ss. 376 [1] of IPC read with Section 6 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. and the accused stated that he had
been falsely implicated in the case. He did not commit rape upon his daughter.
The accused pleaded innocence. No witness was adduced by the accused in his

defence.

5). I have heard Sri Mukti Ranjan Barooah, learned Senior Advocate-
cum-Special Public Prosecutor for the State as well as Smt. Rupali Rai Baruah,
learned counsel for the accused, who is facing trial for commission of offence
u/Ss. 376 [1] of IPC read with Section 6 of The Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether in the month of August 2016 the accused named above
committed rape on the victim girl, i.e., his daughter, aged about
eleven years and below eighteen years and thereby committed
an offence punishable under Section 376 [1] of IPC?

2) Whether during the same period and time the accused named

above committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon

SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016
the victim girl aged above eleven years but below eighteen years
and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 6 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

7). To decide the above charged sections of law against accused let us

 

examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses alongwith the
documents.

PW-1 is the victim girl who during her deposition in Court stated that
about three months ago the accused quarreled with her and her mother after
consuming alcohol. It is her further version that she alongwith her mother and
villagers went to the police station to inform about the matter. Further version of
the victim is that one Smt. Chaya Sil tutored her to give false evidence against
the accused and also instigated her to lodge ejahar against the accused who is
her own father. Police produced her before the learned Magistrate where she
gave statement before the learned Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. Exhibit-1
is her statement wherein Exhibit-1 [1] to Exhibit-1 [3] are her signatures. She
also exhibited the ejahar as Exhibit-2 and her signature thereon as Exhibit-2 [1].
She did not state that accused committed rape upon her.

During cross-examination, she stated that at the police station
aforesaid Smt. Saya Sil was present alongwith her who instructed her to write
the ejahar as per her version. She admitted that the accused who is her father
used to create nuisance in the locality as well as in their house after consuming

liquor.

8). PW-2 is Smt. Sumi Das who is the mother of the victim girl during
her deposition categorically stated that she came to know about the incident
from her daughter only at the police station. It is her further version that her
daughter [PW-1] disclosed before her at the police station that her father, i.e.,
the accused, used to commit rape upon her. Further version of this witness is
that she went to the police station for lodging ejahar against her husband as he
used to create disturbance in the house after consuming alcohol. This witness

was declared hostile by the prosecution and during cross-examination by the

SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016
prosecution she admitted that her daughter stated before her that while she
returned back home from her school on 5" day of the month of August, 2016 the
accused who is her father committed rape upon her; that she found the case to
be true and hence came to Garmur O.P. to lodge case against her husband but
returned back home without lodging the ejahar; that she requested her husband
not to commit rape upon the victim and, in turn, the accused stated to her that
he will do such type of acts upon his daughter [PW-1]. Police took her daughter
before the learned Magistrate for recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
This witness further stated that police seized the school transfer certificate of her
daughter on being produced by her which was returned to her vide Zimmanama
[Exhibit-3] wherein she put her signature as Exhibit-3 [1]. She exhibited the said
certificate as Material Exhibit-1.

During cross-examination, she divulged that Smt. Saya Sil
instructed her daughter to lodge ejahar before police and aforesaid Saya Sil also
tutored her to give evidence. She specifically stated that the instant case lodged

by her daughter is complete false case.

9). Dr. Ritu Saikia [PW-3] who was the then Medical Officer on duty,
Jorhat Medical College & Hospital examined the victim girl on 22/10/2016 and
opined that the victim is above fourteen years but below eighteen years;
evidence of recent sexual intercourse was not detected on her person and there
was no evidence of any injury on the body of victim. She further stated that old
tear at 6 o’ clock was found in the hymen of victim. This witness exhibited her
medical report [Exhibit-4] and her signatures thereon as Exhibit-4 [1] to Exhibit-4
[3].

The doctor was not cross-examined by the prosecution.

10). The evidence of Smt. Abonti Neog [PW-4] is to the effect that
around 2/3 months ago she went to Garmur O.P. in connection with an accident
of her son. She witnessed one girl at the O.P. She was told by police that father
of the aforesaid girl had done bad act with her.

During cross-examination, she stated that she witnessed many

people at the O.P. alongwith women.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016
11). PW-5 is Smt. Rani Boro who was In-charge Chief Judicial
Magistrate, Jorhat on 24/10/2016. During her testimony, she divulged that on
24/10/2016 she recorded statement of victim [PW-1] and thereafter read over
the contents to the victim and finding it to be correct the victim put her
signatures before her. She exhibited the statement of victim as Exhibit-1 and
signatures of victim as Exhibit-1 [1] to Exhibit-1 [3]. She also put her signature
as Exhibit-1 [4]. It is her further version that victim gave her statement
voluntarily without any pressure from any end.

During cross-examination, she stated that she did not record in the
statement of victim that victim gave her statement voluntarily. She denied that
she did not read over the statement to the victim before obtaining her signatures

in the said statement.

12). Smt. Bitumoni Das [PW-6] is sister-in-law of accused Hemanta
Kumar Das. It is stated by this witness that she does not know anything about
the incident. When police arrived at the house of accused then only she came to
know about the incident. Further version of this witness is that she met the
victim who stated before her that accused who is her father committed rape
upon her. The mother of the victim also disclosed the same fact as stated by the

victim before her.

13). The evidence of Smt. Saya Sil [PW-7] is to the effect that on the
date of incident the victim came to her residence and stated before her that the
accused who is her father had committed rape upon her. It is her further version
that victim also stated to her that when she returned back home from her school
the accused was present inside the house and committed rape upon her after
undressing her forcefully. The victim further stated to her that at that time her
mother was not present inside the house.

During cross-examination, she categorically stated that she did not
accompany victim to the police station and further that she did not tutor the
victim to state falsely against the accused. She stated that she instructed the
wife and daughter of accused to lodge ejahar before police regarding the

atrocities meted upon them on previous occasion by the accused.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016
14). Smt. Labanya Saikia [PW-8] stated that on 20/10/2016 she was
serving as Women Home Guard at Garmur O.P. under Jorhat P.S. As per
instruction of the In-charge, Garmur O.P. she escorted the victim to the court for
getting her statement recorded by the learned Magistrate under Section 164
Cr.P.C. She also put her signature before the learned Magistrate on the
statement of the victim [Exhibit-1] which she exhibited as Exhibit-1 [5].

During cross-examination, she stated that I.0. of the case did not

record her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C.

15). The evidence of Smt. Dulumoni Das [PW-9] is to the effect that
police seized one certificate from the victim in her presence vide seizure-list
[Exhibit-5] wherein Exhibit-5 [1] is her signature. She exhibited the said
certificate as Material Exhibit-1.

16). Sri Prakash Sarmah [PW-10] who was the then In-charge,
Garmur O.P. under Jorhat P.S. stated that on 21/10/2016 at about 10.00 P.M.
the victim alongwith her mother arrived at the O.P. where the victim stated
before him that her father attempted to commit rape upon her. The information
was entered in G.D. Entry Register being No. 280. Victim also lodged ejahar
before police regarding the incident. Exhibit-2 is the ejahar wherein Exhibit-2 [2]
is his endorsement with signature. It is further stated by him that the ejahar was
sent to Jorhat P.S. for registration of a case under proper section of law. The
then Officer-in-charge, Jorhat P.S. entrusted the case to him for investigation. He
examined the victim as well as her mother at the police station itself. He also
visited the place of occurrence, examined witnesses who were acquainted with
the fact and circumstance of the case. He also took the victim before a doctor for
medico legal check-up and thereafter the victim was produced before the court
for recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. by the learned Magistrate. He
also drew Sketch Map of the place of occurrence vide Exhibit-6 wherein Exhibit-6
[1] is his signature.

He confirmed the statement of witness Smt. Sumi Das [PW-2] recorded
by him under Section 161 Cr.P.C.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016
During cross-examination, he stated that house of uncle of accused is
located in the front side whereas the accused resides in the back side but in the

Same compound.

17). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that the
accused is the father of victim [PW-1]. It is further stated by the victim that one
Smt. Chaya Sil [PW-7] tutored her to give false evidence against the accused and
also instigated her to lodge ejahar against the accused who is her own father.
During cross-examination, she stated that at the police station aforesaid Smt.
Saya Sil was present alongwith her who instructed her to write the ejahar as per
her version. She admitted that the accused who is her father used to create
nuisance in the locality as well as in their house after consuming liquor.

Smt. Sumi Das [PW-2] during cross-examination, divulged that
Smt. Saya Sil [PW-7] instructed her daughter to lodge ejahar before police and
aforesaid Saya Sil also tutored her to give evidence. She specifically stated in her
cross-examination that the instant case lodged by her daughter is complete false

CaSe.

18). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. had

denied that he had physical contact with the victim who is his own daughter.

19). The investigating officer of the instant case has seized school
certificate of the victim from her parent to show that the victim is a child/minor
less than 18 [eighteen] years as on the date of commission of offence vide
Material Exhibit-1.

20). The prosecution has also relied upon Exhibit-1, the report of doctor
Ritu Saikia [PW-3], according to which, the age of the victim is above fourteen
years but below eighteen years. However, as victim has not supported the case
of prosecution and has deposed clearly that she was tutored by PW-7 to file
F.I.R. against the accused, who is her father, so accused cannot be implicated on

the alleged charges against him.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016
21). On scrutinizing the evidence on record, considering the entire aspect
of the matter and the evidence, produced by the prosecution, I am of the
considered opinion that the prosecution has failed to establish that the accused
committed rape on the victim. Hence, accused is entitled to acquittal under
benefit of doubt against charged sections, i.e., 376 of IPC as well as under
Section 6 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which I

accordingly do.

22). In the result, accused Sri Hemanta Kumar Das is acquitted of the
charges levelled against him on benefit of doubt and he is set at liberty forthwith
from the charges under Section 376 of IPC read with Section 6 of The Protection
of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

UTP/accused may be released forthwith if not required in connection

with any other case.

23). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 19" day of May
2017.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-10

SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016
10

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURES:-

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

PW-1 Victim girl-cum-informant of the case.

PW-2 Smt. Sumi Das, mother of victim.

PW-3 Dr. Ritu Saikia who examined the victim.

PW-4 Smt. Abonti Neog, B.S.N.L. employee.

PW-5 Smt. Rani Boro, Chief Judicial Magistrate, who
recorded statement of the victim under Section 164
Cr.P.C.

PW-6 Smt. Bitumoni Das, housewife.

PW-7 Smt. Saya Sil, housewife.

PW-8 Smt. Labanya Saikia, Women Homeguard.

PW-9 Smt. Dulumoni Das, housewife.

PW-10 Sri Prakash Sarmah, I.0O. of the case.

 

 

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Statement of victim recorded by the learned
Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Zimmanama

Exhibit-4 Medico legal report of victim

Exhibit-5 Order in connection with G.R. Case No. 3165/2016

Exhibit-6 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index

MATERIAL EXHIBIT:- NIL
DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.
Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016 1 0
SPECIAL CASE NO. 66 OF 2016

11

11
