IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::tiiiiiiiii: HAILAKANDI.

(Under Section 448/506 of I.P.C. R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act)

State
-Versus-

Samsul Alom Mazumder ___........... Accused.

PRESENT: Shri D. Bhattacharjee, AJS,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Particulars and Appearances :-

For the State :- Shri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the Accused :- Shri T.I. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.
Dates of recording prosecution evidences ss 27.41.2017, 11,42.2037,
20.03.2018 & 07.04.2018.
Date of recording statement U/S 313 of Cr.P.C. :- 19.04.2018.
Date of Argument :- 28.05.2018.
Date of Judgment :- 11.06.2018.
JUDGMENT
i, The prosecution case as evolved from the FIR lodged on

29.07.2017 by one Mustt. Rahima Begum Choudhury with the Officer-in-charge,
Katlicherra Police Station is that on 29.07.2017 at about 12:30 P.M. while she
was not in home, the accused Md. Samsul Alom Mazumder entered into her
house and started dragging her minor daughter (name withheld) with evil
intention. While her daughter wanted to make hue and cry, the accused took out
a knife and committed rape on her by putting her in fear of death. Still her
daughter raised hue and cry and when the neighbouring people came, the
accused fled away. As a result, her daughter sustained injuries at her private
parts. COE vivisioues P/2,

 

 
Special (POCSO) Case No. 08/2017
«2.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Katlicherra P.S. Case No. 104/2017
was registered under Section 448/376/506 of I.P.C. read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act and S.I. Kalyan Bora was entrusted to investigate the case. During
investigation, police visited the place of occurrence, prepared rough sketch map
thereof, recorded the statements of witnesses, got the victim medically
examined, also got her statement recorded by Magistrate under Section 164 of
Cr.P.C., arrested the accused person, forwarded him to the court and after
completion of investigation, having been found prima facie case laid charge sheet
against the accused person under Section 448/376/506 of I.P.C. read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act.

a This Court being the Special Court under POCSO Act
furnished copies of relevant materials to the accused person and after hearing
the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence counsel and after perusal of
materials available on record having been found sufficient grounds for presuming
that the accused person has committed the offence, framed the formal charge
against him under Section 448/506 of I.P.C. read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.
The charge so framed was read over and explained to the accused person, to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

4. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined
altogether 8 PWs. including the victim, informant, M.O. and I.0. The defence
plea as evident from the trend of cross examination is of total denial. The
accused person was examined under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. and his statement
was recorded wherein he has denied all the allegations levelled against him and
pleaded innocent. The defence declined to adduce any evidence.

5. Heard argument of the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence counsel.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person on 29.07.2017 at about 12:30 P.M. at
Rongpur Part-VIII under Katlicherra Police Station committed house
CODE vcrcsives P/3.

 
ial (P Z
2

trespass by entering into the house of informant Mustt. Rahima
Begum Choudhury and thereby committed an offence punishable
under Section 448 of I.P.C.?

(ii) | Whether the accused person on the aforesaid date, time and place
committed intimidation by threatening daughter (victim) of the
informant to cause her death and thereby committed an offence
punishable under Section 506 of I.P.C.?

(iii) | Whether the accused person on the aforesaid date, time and place
caused penetrative sexual assault upon the victim and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of the POCSO Act?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

6. Before entering into the merit of the case, at the very
outset it is apposite to go through the evidence available on record.

The PW-1, victim has deposed that on 29.07.2017 at about
12:30 P.M. while she was sleeping in her house alone, the accused person
Samsul entered into her house through the window and gagged her mouth by his
hand and threatened her not to raise any alarm. Thereafter, the accused pulled
her wearing cloths and did bad acts with her. She raised hue and cry and then
the accused fled away. After about 1 hour, her mother came and she reported
the entire incident and then her mother filed the case. She has further stated
that she was medically examined and her statement was recorded by a
Magistrate vide Ext.-1.

In cross examination, she has stated that the accused is
her relative. There are 4 families residing in the same homestead where she
resides. On the relevant day, her sister and brother were present in the house. At
the relevant time, she was menstruating. The accused did not commit sexual
intercourse with her. While she raised hue and cry, the accused left the place.
She has further stated that her mother filed the case out of misunderstanding as
she was in sleeping mood at the relevant time. She also stated that she made

CONE vicccnince P/4.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 08/2017
-4-

the statement before Magistrate on being tutored by her family members as a
consequence of misunderstanding. She also stated that if the accused person is
acquitted of the case she will have no objection.

7. The PW-2, Rahima Begum Choudhury, informant of this
case has deposed that the accused is her nephew. On the relevant day, she was
out of her house in connection with her work and returned home at about 3 P.M.
then her daughter reported her that the accused entered into her room, pulled
wearing cloths and attempted to do bad acts with her but as her daughter raised
hue and cry, the accused could not effectuate his evil object and fled away. On
the relevant day itself she lodged the case.

In cross examination, she has stated that her daughter
was crying and as such she could not narrate the entire incident to her properly.
She had good relation and visiting terms with the accused person. Subsequently,
she realized that due to misunderstanding she filed the case out of anger. She
will have no objection if the accused person is acquitted.

8. The PW-3, Kamlarun Nessa Laskar has deposed that on
the relevant day at about 11 A.M. on hearing hue and cry from the house of
informant, she went there and found the daughter of informant was crying. She
asked the reason of her crying but the victim did not reply. Thereafter, the
informant came and took her daughter to Katlicherra.

9. The PW-4, Jasmin Sultana Mazumder has deposed that on
the relevant day on hearing hue and cry at about 11 A.M. she went to the house
of victim and found the victim was crying. On being asked, the victim did not
state anything to her about the reason of her cry. Thereafter, the informant
came and took the victim to the police station.

10. The PW-5, Dr. Rehana Begum has deposed that on
29.07.2017 at about 3:50 P.M. she examined the victim at Civil Hospital,
Hailakandi on police requisition and found :- (i) no spermatozoa on vaginal swap
examination, (ii) there was bleeding per vagina, (iii) one lacerated wound over

COVE vcicscsesi P/5.

 
\\" os

pd 7
opt gh
gh

Special (POCSO) Case No. 08/2017
-5-

posterior vaginal wall of size 1cm x 5cm x 5cm and (iv) it shows that there was
evidence of rape.

She has also stated that for age determination the victim
girl was referred to SMCH, Silchar but the report to that effect has not been
received. In describing history she has stated that it was of alleged rape on
29.07.2017. Ext.-2 is the said medical report.

In cross examination, she has stated that from the injury
report of the victim she reached to the conclusion that it was an incident of rape.
She has further stated that if finger is inserted, such type of injury may happen.
In her report she did not mention about the past menstruation cycle of the
victim.

11. The PW-6, Halima Begum Mazumder, elder sister of the
victim has deposed that she does not know anything about the incident.

12. The PW-7, Bilal Uddin Mazumder, a child of 11 years has
also stated that he does not know anything about the incident.

13. The PW-8, Kalyan Bora, the Investigating Officer of this
case has deposed that on 29.07.2017 at about 2:30 P.M. the informant came
with the victim and reported that the accused Samsul Alom Mazumder raped the
victim and accordingly, the G.D. Entry No. 502 dated 29.07.2017 was made. The
victim was medically examined. He was entrusted to investigate the case by the
Officer-in-charge and after completion of investigation, he submitted charge
sheet against the accused person vide Ext.-8. He has further stated that during
investigation the informant produced a photocopy of Admit Card of the victim of
appearing in HSLC examination but since it was a photocopy, he did not seize it.
The victim had stated to him that the original copy of the Admit Card was lost.

In cross examination, he has stated that there is no note in
the case diary in regard to the loss of Admit Card. He did not make any effort to
verify the genuineness of the photocopy of Admit Card. The victim and the

CO sciences Pf.

 
Special (POCSO) Case No. 08/2017
-6-

informant did not produce any blood stained cloth to him as the victim had taken
bath after the incident and washed the cloths. He did not find any stain and mark
of violence in the place of occurrence indicating the commission of offence.

14. At the very outset, in determining age of the victim girl at
the relevant time, from the Ext.-2 medical report and from the evidence of PW-5
Medical Officer, it is revealed that the victim girl was referred to SMCH, Silchar,
for age determination but there is nothing on record whether her radiological age
was determined or not. Therefore, there is no medical evidence to ascertain the
age of victim at the relevant time. The victim in her evidence as PW-1 has stated
that on the day of deposition i.e. on 27.11.2017 she was about 17 years. The
incident occurred on 29.07.2017 i.e. 4 months before of her deposition in the
court. Since, she has stated that her age about 17 years, it may be 16 or 17 or
18 years. The victim in her deposition has stated that she is a student of Class-
XI. The mother of the victim PW-2 did not state anything as regards age of the
victim. From the evidence of PW-8 Investigating Officer, it is appeared that
during investigation, informant produced a photocopy of Admit Card of the victim
of appearing HSLC examination. But since it was a photocopy he did not seize it.
Neither the victim nor the informant has stated anything about the said Admit
Card. Since the victim is a student of Class- XI, she could have produced her age
proof documents but she did not do so. The photocopy of the Admit Card has not
been brought on record and has not received any corroboration from the
evidence of victim and informant. Therefore, this Court has no option to
determine the age of victim at the relevant time on the basis of radiological
examination or on the basis of any document. As discussed above, the victim has
stated that 4 months after the incident she was aged about 17 years and
therefore, the victim the age of the victim at the relevant time was either 16 or
17 or 18 years. The proposition of law is settled that where there are two
plausible views, the view which is in favour of accused shall be accepted and
thus, the higher age of the victim is taken into consideration and thereby held
that she was major at the relevant time. Therefore, the POCSO Act is not
applicable in the instant case.

COE rents P/7.

 

 
s oot
ogg

Special (POCSO) Case No. 08/2017
oFa

15. The evidence of PW-5 Medical Officer depicts that there
was bleeding per vagina and one lacerated wound over posterior vaginal wall of
size 1cm x .5cm x 5cm and has opined that there was evidence of rape and she
issued the Ext.-2 medical report. Therefore, the medical evidence disclosed that
the victim was subjected to rape on 29.07.2017.

16. The PW-2 is the mother of the victim and her evidence
transpires she was not at home, at the relevant time. The PWs. -3, 4 & 6 are the
neighbours of the victim are also not eye witness to the occurrence. The PW-7
has stated that he cannot say anything about the incident. Therefore, in the
instant case the victim is the only witness who can say about the incident. The
victim by adducing evidence as PW-1 in her examination in chief has deposed
that on 29.07.2017 at about 12:30 P.M. while she was sleeping, the accused
entered into her room through window and by gagging her mouth, pulled her
wearing cloths and committed bad act with her. On being asked by this Court
about the bad act, the victim did not explain anything. But in cross examination,
she has stated that the accused did not commit sexual intercourse with her. Also
stated that when she raised hue and cry, the accused left the place.

In her evidence in chief, she has very categorically stated
that the accused pulled her wearing cloths and committed bad acts with her but
in cross examination, she has stated that the accused did not commit sexual
intercourse with her and when she raised hue and cry, the accused left the place.
From the above evidence of the victim, there is ambiguity in regard to the fact
that whether she raised hue and cry on seeing the accused or when the accused
pulled her wearing cloths. The victim has stated that the accused is her relative
and visits her house very frequently.

17. The PW-5, Doctor opined that there was bleeding per
vagina but the victim has stated that at that relevant point of time, she was
menstruating. Therefore, the findings of the Medical Officer that there was
bleeding per vagina is shrouded with doubt. The PW-5, Doctor found one
lacerated injury in the vaginal wall of the victim but the victim in her evidence in

COE issexics PZ.

 
a

gp BOP g nO?

a>

a

Special (POCSO) Case No. 08/2017
.§-

chief has stated that she did not feel any pain. Had the victim sustained any
lacerated injury in her private parts, she would have felt pain.

18. In the Ext.-1, statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. the
victim had implicated the accused person of committing rape with her but in
cross examination she has stated that she made the statement before Magistrate
on being tutored by her family members. The proposition of law is well settled
that the statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. is not a substantive evidence but
it can be used only for the purpose of contradiction and corroboration. Therefore,
the said statement is of no use in aiding the case of prosecution.

19. The victim in her cross examination has stated that since
she was in sleeping mood at the relevant time, she could not narrate the entire
incident to her mother properly and as such, out of misunderstanding her mother
filed the case against the accused. She has further stated that if the accused
person is acquitted of the offence, she will have no objection. The PW-2,
informant though implicated the accused person in her evidence in chief but in
cross examination she has given complete go by to the same and stated that she
could not understand the case properly from her daughter and out of
misunderstanding she has filed the case against the accused out of anger.

20. Since it has been held above that the victim was a major
girl at the relevant time, under the facts and circumstances of the case, it is
inferred that had any such incident occurred, it was occurred with the consent of
the victim and the victim and informant out of misunderstanding had filed the
case.

21. In view of above discussions, it is held that the prosecution
could not prove its case against the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt
and therefore, the accused Samsul Alom Mazumder is acquitted of the
offence charged under Section 448/506 of I.P.C. read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act. Set him at liberty forthwith.

22. The bail bond will remain in force for a further period of six
months. CONDE, cisisccs P/9.

 
-9-
23. Send a copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate,
Hailakandi.
24. The Special (POCSO) Case is disposed of accordingly.
25. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 11"
day of June, 2018 at Hailakandi.
or
\\

Special Judge,

Shlaiiaka dip GB
Dictated and corrected by me: HAILAKANDI

Special Judge, Hailakandi.
SPECIAL JUDGE
HAILAKANDI

Dictation is taken and transcribed by Samsher Bahadur, Stenographer
Grade — III.

CME, wisvecssa P/10.

 
-10-

Appendix :-

Oral Evidences :-

PW-1, Ramzana Begum Choudhury.
PW-2, Rahima Begum Choudhury.
PW-3, Kamlarun Nessa Laskar.
PW-4, Jasmin Sultana Mazumder.
PW-5, Dr. Rehana Begum.

PW-6, Halima Begum Mazumder.
PW-7, Bilal Uddin Mazumder.
PW-8, Kalyan Borah.

Documentary Evidences :-

Ext.-1, Statement of victim.

Ext.-2, Medical Report.

Ext.-3, Laboratory Report.

Ext.-4, Extract copy of G.D. Entry No. 502 dt. 29.07.2017.
Ext.-5, FIR.

Ext.-6, FIR Form.

Ext.-7, Sketch map of the place of occurrence.

Ext.-8, Charge sheet.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

  

pecial Judge,

Hailakandi.
SPECIAL JUDGB

HAILAKANDI

 
