1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present : Md. A.U. Ahmed, AJS,
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
POCSO Case No. 04/2013 (Special)/
(Sessions Case No. 113/15) corresponding to
GR Case No. 212/2013 & Kheroni Police Station
Case No. 75/2013
Under Sections 376(2)(f) of the IPC/ 4 of the
POCSO.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Ranjit Tisso
Name of informant/complainant:
Shri Babu Bey
S/O Shri Bhim Bey
Village: Mukhim Gaon
PS: Kheroni
District: Karbi Anglong
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Ranjit Tisso
Son of Shri Kat Tisso
Village: Batplang, Jengkha
PS: Kheroni
District: Karbi Anglong

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor.
For the defence : Mr J. Paul.
Argument heard on : 07.08.2019.

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 17.08.2019.
2|Page

JUDGMENT

1. It is a case of penetrative sexual assault alleged to

have been committed by the accused person.

Z. The prosecution case in brief is that on 25.10.2013, the
informant-Shri Babu Bey lodged an ejahar with the O/C of
Kheroni Police Station stating inter alia that on 12.10.2013,
his daughter-Smti. Purnima Beypi aged 12 years along with
her friend named Smti. Sewali Engjaipi went to Jenkha
Market for enjoying Durga Puja. On that date at 10 PM, the
accused introducing himself as their relative proposed to
drop them in their houses in his auto-rickshaw. Although his
daughter was reluctant to go with him, the accused forcibly
boarded them in his auto rickshaw and moved towards their
house. In a jungle situated in between Jenkha and Menmeji
Gaon he raped his daughter. The friend of her daughter
managed to flee from the said situation. Shri Biren Tisso, the
brother of the accused took zimma of the accused in a
“Vichar” and proposed to settle the matter socially. But
thereafter, he hid the accused-brother in an unknown place
for which delay took in filing the ejahar. On receipt of the
ejahar, O/C Kheroni Police Station registered a case vide its
PS case No. 75/2013 under section 376(2)(f) R/W section 4
of the POCSO Act. On completion of investigation, I.0O.
submitted the charge-sheet under the registered section of
law against the accused person. Hence the prosecution case

has come up.

3. On completion of appearance of the accused person,
copy was furnished to him. Having very carefully gone
through the submissions advanced by the learned lawyers of

both sides as well as case dairy I found sufficient ground for
3|Page

presuming that the accused person committed the offence
under section 4 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, the charge
was framed. The particular of the offence charged was duly
read over and explained to the accused person to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During prosecution has examined as many as 9 (nine)
witnesses including the informant and the alleged victim.
Statement of the accused person was recorded under
section 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence declined to adduce evidence.

Plea of defence is of total denial.

5. Point for determination is:

Whether the accused person on 12.10.2013 at about
10:00 PM in a jungle situated in between the villages,
namely, Jenkha and Menmeji under Kheroni Police Station
caused penetrative sexual assault to Miss Purnima Beypi
aged 12 years and that he thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 4 of the POCSO Act?

6. Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through verbal arguments
advanced by the learned counsels of both sides as well as
evidence on record. At the very outset, the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the accused person has contended
that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case
against the accused person. On the other hand, the learned
Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the aforesaid
submission has submitted that the prosecution has
succeeded in establishing its case against the accused

person beyond all reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the
4|Page

rival submissions, it would be appropriate to give a glance at

evidence record.

7. PW-1 is Shri Babu Bey who told that he is the
informant of this case. The victim is his daughter. The
occurrence took place about three years back during Durga
Puja at Jenkha Bazar. On that day at about 5/6 PM, the
victim along with her friend, Sewali went out to Jenkha
Bazar to enjoy Durga Puja and she came back home at
midnight. Coming home back, his daughter informed him
and his wife that the accused at 10 O’ Clock of that night
took her and her friend, Sewali from Jenkha Bazar in an
auto-rickshaw towards Menmazi village. On reaching a field,
the accused dropped the victim from the said auto-rickshaw
and he took her to a place situated in between a village and
sugarcane cultivation and raped her there. The victim also
informed him that while she was taken down from the auto-
rickshaw, her friend-Sewali somehow managed to flee away.
Then he informed the Govt. Gaonburah about the
occurrence and convened a “Mel” where the matter was
discussed, but no decision could be taken. Thereafter, he
lodged the ejahar at Kheroni Police Station. Police got his
victim-daughter medically examined and her statement
recorded in the Court. At the time of occurrence, his victim
daughter was 12 years old. The Court handed over the
victim girl to him. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his

signature.

8. PW-2 is Smti Sewali Engjaipi who has deposed that she
knows the informant, the accused and the victim girl. The
occurrence took place in the year 2013. On the day of
occurrence in the afternoon, she along with the victim went

to Jenkha to see Durga Puja. At Jenkha, they watched
5|Page

movie. When the movie show was over, the accused-Ranjit
Tisso came forward for taking them home in his auto-
rickshaw. She and the victim on good faith got into the auto-
rickshaw. When the auto-rickshaw reached in a lonely place
situated in between two villages, the accused got it stopped.
At that time, out of fear, they got down from the auto-
rickshaw and started fleeing away. She somehow managed
to hide herself in a jungle. From her hiding place, she saw
the accused taking away the victim towards the jungle. At
that time, she saw two boys coming on foot and seeing
them, she came out of the jungle and sought help from
them narrating the entire matter. Thereafter, she along with
said two boys started searching the victim and during
search, they found her crying in the jungle, but they did not
find the accused there. On being asked, the victim told her
that the accused raped her. Thereafter, they took the victim
to their house. Staying there for some time, they took the

victim to her house at midnight.

9. PW-3 is the victim who has deposed in her evidence
that the informant is her father. She knows the accused
person. On the day of occurrence at about 3:00 PM, she
along with Sewali went to Jenkha for enjoying Durga Puja.
They watched movie there. On ending of the movie, while
they were waiting in a shop for going home back, the
accused approached and asked them to get into his auto-
rickshaw for going home back. Initially, they were reluctant
to go home back by his auto-rickshaw. Ultimately under his
pressure, they got into the auto-rickshaw to go home back.
After completing half journey, the accused suddenly got his
auto-rickshaw stopped in a lonely place and then out of fear,
she and her friend got down from the auto-rickshaw and

started running away. Her friend was fleeing away in the
6|Page

opposite direction. The accused chased her and he managed
to catch her. Thereafter, the accused took her to nearby
jungle by holding her hair. Taking her into the jungle, the
accused forcibly made her laid down on the ground and
removed her undergarment. Thereafter, he forcibly made
sexual intercourse with her. She raised hue and cry, but
nobody came forward. Seeing her friend and some boys
coming towards the jungle, the accused fled away leaving
her there. Her friend and the boys took her to the house of
Sewali. The said incident took place at about 10 PM. She
spent the night in the house of Sewali and in the morning at
about 5 O’ Clock, she was dropped in her house. Coming to
her house, she narrated all the happenings to her parents. A
Bichar was convened in the village, but the matter was not
settled there. Her father lodged the written ejahar with
Kheroni Police Station. Police got her medically examined
and her statement recorded in the Court. Ext.2 is her
statement. Ext.2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures. At the time
of occurrence, she was 12 years old and was reading in

class-V.

10. PW-4 is Shri Babu Bey who has stated in his testimony
that he knows the informant, but does not know the accused
person. After about 10/15 days of the occurrence, he came
to know that the daughter of the complainant-Babu Bey was

raped by somebody. He knows this much only.

11. PW-5 is Dr Joydhan Timung who stated that on
26.10.2013 while he was serving as Medical & Health Officer
at Kheroni SHC, he examined Smti. Purnima Beypi aged 12
years in presence of staff nurse and lady constable and

found the following:
7|Page

No violent marks are found in the private parts. Hymen of
the victim was intact. Probable age of the victim was 12
years and her blood group was B(+ve). Vaginal swab was
not collected since the alleged rape was happened on
12.10.2013. He did not find the sign of rape. He further told
that actual age of the victim would be determined by
forensic expert and hence the victim was referred to Diphu
Civil Hospital. Ext.2 is the medical report and Ext.2(1) is his
Signature. PW-6 is Dr. Mercy Rongpharpi who told that on
31.3.2013 while she was working as Medical & Health Officer
at Diphu Civil Hospital, she examined Smti Purnima Beypi for
determination of her age. X-ray was done for determination
of age. The age of the girl was approximately between 16 to
18 years. Dentist also examined the victim and found her
age between 16 to 18 years. Ext.3 is medical report and
Ext.3(1) is her signature.

12. PW-7 is Shri J.S. Khobung who has stated in his
testimony that on 21.02.2013 he was working as Officer In-
charge of Kheroni Police Station. On that day, he received
the case diary. After perusal of case diary, he collected the
birth certificate of the victim from the school of the victim
girl. As per the birth certificate, the date of birth of the
victim is 20.9.2001. Ext.4 is the birth certificate of the victim
and Ext.4(1) is the signature of the Headmaster of Menmedi
High school which he could recognize. His predecessor-
investigating officer almost completed the investigation and
thereafter, on perusal of the case diary, he found sufficient
materials under sections 376(2)(f) of IPC and 4 of the
POCSO Act against the accused person and accordingly, he
submitted the charge-sheet against him. Ext.5 is charge-

sheet and Ext.5(1) is his signature.
8|Page

13. PW-8 is Shri Ananda Bey who has stated that he knows
the informant and the victim. The occurrence took place
about 5/6 years ago. At the time of occurrence he came to
know that the victim was raped. Coming to the house of the
victim he came to know that victim along with her friend
went to see Durga Puja and that while they coming home
back in the auto rickshaw of the accused, the accused
suddenly got the auto stopped. The victim informed him that

she was raped by the accused after taking her into a jungle.

14. PW-9 is Shri Badan Chandra Das who was one of the
I.Os of the case. While he was working as OC of Kheroni
Police Station, one Babu Bey lodged an ejahar stating the
incident of rape of his daughter. He registered the PS case
vide No.75/2013 under section 376(2)(F) and 4 of the
POCSO Act and he himself took the charge of investigation.
During investigation, he recorded the statement of the
informant in the Police Station and brought the victim to the
Police Station. While coming to the Police Station, the victim
brought the clothes which she wore at the time of
occurrence. He sent the victim to Kheroni SHC along with
woman police for her medical examination. He also recorded
the statements of the witnesses those who came to the
Police Station along with the informant. He seized one skirt,
one white colour T-shirt, one black undergarment and one
white colour brassiere, which were worn by the victim at the
time of occurrence, in presence of the witnesses. Thereafter,
he went the place of occurrence with his staffs and drew a
sketch map. As there was no any house nearby the place of
occurrence, he did not find anybody to record statement. He
searched the accused, but he was absconding at that time.
On 26.10.2013 he seized the auto-rickshaw bearing
registration No. AS-09-C-6271 along with the documents
9|Page

like-registration card, fitness certificate, insurance certificate
and permit in presence of the witnesses. He showed the
seized articles before the Court. On 28.10.2013 the accused
appeared in the police station and he arrested him and on
that day, he got the accused medically examined. He prayed
before the Court to record the confessional statement of the
accused which was allowed by the Court. He also prayed
before the Court to record the statements of the victim and
Smti. Sewali Engjaipi. He collected a school certificate
wherein the date of birth of the victim was written as
29.9.2001. He also collected the statements of the victim
and the accused along with the medical certificates.
Thereafter, on his transfer, he submitted the case diary at
the PS. Ext.1 is the ejahar, Ext.6 and 8 are the seizure lists,
Ext.7 is the sketch map. Ext.1(2),Ext.6(1), Ext.7(1) and
Ext.8(1) are his signatures.

15. To attract any penal provision of the POCSO Act, the
victim needs to be a child. According to the section 2(d) of
the POCSO Act, a person who has not completed 18 years is
a child. PW-1 is the informant who is the father of the
victim. According to him, at the time of occurrence the
victim was 12 years. Similarly the victim has stated in her
evidence that at the time of occurrence she was reading in
class-VIII and was 12 years old. PW-6 is the medical officer
who examined the victim for determining her age on
31.10.2013 and opined that her age was 16-18 years. Ext-3
is the medical report. Ext-4 is the attested copy of school
certificate which shows date of birth of the victim as
29.07.2001. According to Ext-4 at the time of occurrence
the victim was 12 years 2 months 15 days. Statement of the
victim examined under section 164 of the CrPC marked as

Ext-2 also shows that at the time of occurrence victim was
10|Page

12 years old. The defence has not disputed the evidence of
informant and victim as regards age of victim. Hence it can
be said that at the time of occurrence the victim was about
13 years old below 18 years. In view of the discussion made
above I have come to conclusion that at the time of

occurrence the victim was a child.

16. PW-3 is the victim whose evidence shows that when
the victim and her friend got down from the auto rickshaw
driven by the accused person out of fear while it was got
stopped near a jungle far away from their village the
accused took her inside the jungle by holding of her hair and
thereafter he made her laid down on the ground and
removed her panty. Thereafter the accused made sexual
intercourse with her forcibly. The fact of the prosecution
case remains that at the time of occurrence the victim and
her friend Smti Sewali Ingipi were going back home in the
auto rickshaw driven by the accused person. The
prosecution has examined said Smti Sewali Ingipi as PW-2
whose evidence shows that the accused had taken away the
victim inside the jungle. PW-5 is the Medical Officer Dr.
Joydhan Timung who examined the victim on 26.10.2013
wherein the occurrence took place in 12.10.2013. His
evidence clearly shows that he found hymen of the victim
was intact and that he found no violent mark in the private

parts and sign of rape.

17. It has been submitted by the learned defence counsel
that on the basis of evidence of the victim available in the
case record cannot be held that there was a penetrative
sexual assault caused to the victim. There is no direct
evidence from the victim available on the record show that

the accused inserted his penis into the vagina of the victim.
11|Page

In view of the discussion made above I find force in the
submissions put forward by the learned defence counsel

appearing on behalf of the accused person.

18. Ext-7 is the sketch map of the PO which shows that PO
is sugarcane field. Ext-8 is the seizure list by which the auto
rickshaw in question along with its documents was seized.
Ext-6 is also another seizure list by which the wearing of the

victim were seized which were being torn up.

19. It has been further submitted by the learned defence
counsel that non examination of the two boys who after
occurrence brought the victim and her friend to the house of
her friend is fatal to the prosecution case. PW-7 and PW-9
are the Investigating Officer of this case. During their cross
examination no question was asked as to why they failed to
examined the said boys. Both PWs 2 and 3 have
categorically stated that two boys brought them to the
house of PW-2. It is the established rule that for proving a
fact one witness is enough if his evidence inspires
confidence of the Court. There are some minor discrepancies
in evidence on record which are not at all on material points.
There is no evidence on record showing that there is an
enmity between the accused and family of the informant.
Having very carefully gone through the cross examination of
both PWs 2 and 3 I find nothing to disbelieve their

evidences.

20. — It is evident that immediate after occurrence the father
of the victim took initiative to get the dispute settled through
amicable but the accused not turned up. It is quite natural
the villager initially tries to settle any dispute at the village

level. PW-8 is the relative of the informant who has also
12|Page

stated in his evidence that the victim informed him that the

accused raped her.

21. Plea of the defence as reflected from the statement of
the accused person recorded under section 313 of the CrPC

is of totally denial. The defence has not let any evidence to

22. The section 18 of the POCSO Act related to
punishment for attempt to commit an offence which read
thus:-"18. Punishment for attempt to commit an
offence.-Whoever attempts to commit any _ offence
punishable under this Act or to cause such an offence to be
committed, and in such attempt, does any act towards the
commission of the offence, shall be punished with
imprisonment of any description provided for the offence, for
a term which may extend to one-half of the imprisonment
for life or, as the case may be, one-half of the longest term
of imprisonment provided for that offence or with fine or
with both.”

23. The section 4 of the POCSO Act relates to punishment
for committing penetrative sexual offence which reads thus:-
“4. Punishment for penetrative sexual assault.-
Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which shall not be less than seven years but which may
extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to

fine.”

24. The section 3 of the POCSO Act relates to penetrative
sexual assault which reads thus:- “3. Penetrative sexual
assault.- A person is said to commit "penetrative sexual

assault" if-
13|Page

a. he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the
vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child
to do so with him or any other person; or

b. he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of
the body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or
anus of the child or makes the child to do so with him or any
other person; or

c. he manipulates any part of the body of the child
so as to cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or
any part of body of the child or makes the child to do so with
him or any other person; or

d. he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus,
urethra of the child or makes the child to do so to such

person or any other person.”

25. In view of the discussion made above I find that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case under
section 18 of the POCSO Act read section 4 of the POCSO

Act beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

 

26. In the result, I find the accused person Shri Ranjit
Tisso guilty under section 18 of the POCSO Act read with
section 4 of the POCSO Act and accordingly he is convicted.

27. On the point of sentence, the accused person is heard
and to that effect his statement is recorded. It has been
submitted by the learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the
accused person that there is no evidence on record showing
that the accused was previously convicted by the Court of
Law and as such he deserves to be punished leniently. On

the other hand, the learned Public Prosecutor has submitted
14|Page

that the accused needs to be punished exemplary. It
appears that the accused was a grown up man having
children and that he committed the offence with a cool

brain.

28. — Taking all aspects into consideration I do hereby order
the accused Shri Ranjit Tisso to undergo RI of 3 (Three)
years. Set off earlier detention period. Return the seized
auto rickshaw to its registered owner along with seized
documents in due course of Law. Let the rest seized articles
be destroyed in due course of Law. Let certified copies of
the Judgment and order be furnished to the accused person
at free of cost. Also send a copy of Judgment to the learned

District Magistrate, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

29. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

30. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this 17"
August, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong Diphu, Karbi Anglong
15|Page

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Shri Babu Bey

PW2- Smti Sewali Ingipi

PW3- Miss Purnima Beypi
PW4- Shri Babu Bey

PW5- Dr. Joydhan Timung
PW6- Dr. Mercy Rongpharpi
PW7- Shri J. S. Knobung
PW8- Shri Ananda Bey

PW9- Shri Badan Chandra Das

Defence Witnesses: Nil
Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Medical Examination Report
Ext.2- Statement of the Victim
Ext.3- Medical Report

Ext.4- School Transfer Certificate
Ext.5- Charge Sheet

Ext.6- Seizure List

Ext.7- Sketch Map

Ext.8- Seizure List

Defence Exhibited: Nil

Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam.
