CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 40/16

Informant: The victim ‘xX’.

Accused: Sri Dinesh Majhi,
S/o- Sri Raju Majhi,
R/o- Chandmarighat,
PS- Dibrugarh,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Smti. Anju S Gogoi, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 40/16
G.R. Case No. 907/16

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Dinesh Majhi

Charges: Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on: 21-11-16, 02-01-17, 09-02-17 and 15-06-17.
Date of argument —_: 29-11-17.
Date of Judgment __: 10-01-18.

JUDGMENT
1) The prosecution case in a nutshell is that on 11-10-15, at about 5:00 pm, Sri
Dinesh Majhi (hereinafter the accused person) forcefully kidnapped the victim
X against her will from the road while she was proceeding towards Naliapool
from her house. He confined X in a house at Lahoal and committed rape on
her at night. Thereafter, he assured the victim that he will marry her and took
her to Delhi and handed her over to a person whose name is not known to
the victim. Thereafter, the accused returned to Dibrugarh and assured her
that he will bring her back and he will accept her as is wife. On being so
induced, the victim X stayed back at Delhi in the unknown person's house,
but the accused did not return to Delhi to bring her back to Assam. When the
victim expressed her desire to return to Assam, she was not allowed, because
she was told that the accused had taken money from the unknown person in
exchange of the victim. Finally, the victim managed to escape and informed
her father over phone and her father went to bring her back to Dibrugarh on
06-04-16. The victim learnt that the accused married another girl and is
staying with her as husband and wife. An ejahar regarding this incident was
lodged by X with the police at Gabharupather Outpost and a GD Entry No.
168/16 was registered and the ejahar was forwarded to the Dibrugarh Police

Station which was registered as Dibrugarh PS Case No. 271/16 under
Sections 366-A/344/376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC in short).

2) The investigating officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation. He
forwarded the victim to the Magistrate for recording her statement under
Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC in short) and to the
medical officer (MO in short) for examination. He went to the place of
occurrence and prepared Sketch-Map and recorded the statements of the
witnesses. On finding prima facie materials, Charge-Sheet was laid against
the accused under Sections 366-A/376 IPC read with Section 5 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act in short).

3) On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
the sides, a formal charge under Section 366 IPC read with Section 4 of the
POCSO Act was framed, read over and explained to the accused. The accused
abjured his guilt and claimed innocence.

4) To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of six
witnesses including the MO and the IO and the defence cross-examined the
witnesses in extenso to refute the charges. The prosecution also exhibited
several documents.

5) I have heard the submission of both the sides. The learned Public Prosecutor
Smti. Runumi Devi and learned Addl. Public Prosecutor Smti. Sehnaz Akhtar
submitted that this case has been proved beyond a reasonable doubt and the
accused deserves stringent punishment. On the other hand, the learned
defence counsel submitted that this case is replete with contradictions and
the accused deserves acquittal.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

6) On the backdrop of the rival contentions urged at the bar, the following points
are apposite for proper decision of this case:

i. | Whether the accused abducted the victim to go with him in
order that she may be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse?

ii. | Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault
on the minor victim X?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

7) To decide the case in its right perspective, it is necessary to advert to the
evidence.

8) The victim testified as PW-1 that at the time of the incident, she was a
resident in a place near Naina Cinema Hall. The accused is her first cousin
being her aunt's (jethai) son. The alleged incident took place about three
months back. At the time of the incident, her parents went to Delhi and she
was staying with her grandmother near Naina Cinema Hall. One day, the
accused took her from her grandmother's house to Lahoal and kept her in a
house belonging to a lady who is not known to her. The accused introduced
her as his wife and he left her with the lady. She stayed in the lady’s house
for four days and during her stay, she used to attend the household chores of
the lady. After about four days, the lady whom she addressed as ‘Aunty’ was
informed by a person named Kamal that she eloped with the accused. When
the lady came to know about her conduct, she drove her out of her house.
Then she called the accused over phone and informed him that she was
driven out of the lady’s house. The accused then asked her to proceed to the
Tinsukia Railway Station and accordingly, she went to the railway station. The
accused then took her to Hijuguri where his father used to work as a painter
in a Marwari person’s house. She stayed in the Marwari person’s house for
about nine days and attended all the household chores. Then the accused
came to the Marwari person’s house and took her to the aunt’s house
wherefrom both of them left for Delhi. She and the accused went to Delhi
and the accused kept her in the house of the aunt’s daughter at Ramesh
Nagar in Delhi. She stayed in aunt's daughter’s house for six months while
the accused stayed there for nine days and returned to Assam. The aunt at
Lahoal informed her daughter that she (X) was the accused person’s wife and
accordingly, she stayed in the house at Delhi as husband and wife with the
accused. She also had physical relationship with the accused. The accused
returned to Dibrugarh from Delhi leaving her in the same house. The accused
brought along with him another girl from the same house at Delhi, i.e., the
house of the aunt’s daughter. The girl who came from Delhi along with the
accused person was from Chabua and the accused person married the girl
from Chabua. The name of the said girl is Rina. She informed her employer,
i.e., aunt's daughter that she intended to return to Dibrugarh. She called her
grandmother over phone and informed her grandmother at Chabua that she
wanted to return home. Then her grandmother sent her father to Delhi and
the aunt's daughter allowed her to return home and she met her father in the

railway station at Delhi. She went to Haryana along with her father and
9)

stayed in a rented house along with her parents. After one month, she came
to Dibrugarh with her father and went to her grandmother’s house near the
Naina Cinema Hall. After returning home, her grandmother advised her to
lodge a case against the accused as he cheated her on several occasions. Her
mother narrated the incident to a person who wrote the FIR and she affixed
her signature. Ext. 1 is the FIR and Ext. 1(1) is her signature. The police
recorded her statement. She was taken to Assam Medical College & Hospital,
Dibrugarh for medical examination and she was also forwarded to the
Magistrate for recording her statement. Ext. 2 is her statement and Ext. 2(1)
upto Ext. 2(3) are her signatures.

In her cross-examination, she admitted that her marriage was solemnized
with another person before this incident. Her first husband was from Bihar
and she stayed with her husband at Dibrugarh for four months. Her first
husband Sri Dinesh Kamal took her to Bihar and she stayed there with her in-
laws and thereafter, her husband went away to Arab. She stayed in Bihar with
her in-laws for about 1 % years. At that time, she was only thirteen years
and she spent two years altogether with the family of her first husband. Due
to some problems at Bihar, her parents brought her back to Assam with the
consent of her in-laws. At present, she has no relationship with her in-laws
and her first husband, because they learnt that she eloped with the accused.
During the entire incident, the accused never compelled her or threatened
her under any circumstances. A person named Kamal helped her to elope.

She did not inform anyone about the incident.

10) The evidence of PW-1 does not inspire confidence. Although she has alleged

of being induced by the accused in her FIR, yet in her evidence, she did not
implicate that the accused cheated her and abducted her and took her to
Lahoal, Delhi or any other place. There is no instance of any marriage being
performed between the accused and the victim. When the accused
introduced her as his wife, there was no resistance from her and she too
conned with the accused as his wife. She willingly had physical relationship
with the accused in the house at Delhi. She was not held captive, because
when she expressed her desire to return home, her mistress allowed her to
return home and her father brought her back. She was driven out of aunt's
house at Lahoal when the said aunt came to know that she eloped with the

accused. The evidence clearly depicts that the witness concealed some facts
and her evidence insinuates that she willingly eloped with the accused and
stayed at places like Lahoal, Tinsukia, Delhi and so on and so forth. Her
evidence also depicts that she was earlier married with another person and
when she returned home, she eloped for a second time with the present
accused. It appears that the victim was enamoured by the accused and when
the accused got married with the girl named Rina, she was offended and she
returned from Delhi to her parent’s house after staying in Haryana for one
month.

11) The victim's father Sri Gopal Rai testified as PW-2 that the accused is the son
of his wife's elder sister. About eight months ago, he along with his wife went
to Delhi and stayed at Haryana. At that time, he learnt from his mother-in-law
that his daughter X who was staying at Naliapool with her was missing. After
three months, he came to know from his mother-in-law that X informed her
from Delhi that she was in Delhi and was in a fix and she intended to return
to Dibrugarh. Then he returned from Delhi to Dibrugarh to meet his mother-
in-law and he also had a discussion with his daughter X. His daughter
informed him that she was taken by the accused from Dibrugarh to Delhi and
kept in the house of a lady for attending her household chores. X also
informed him that the accused used to take payment from the lady at Delhi
on his behalf. PW-2 further stated that he went to Delhi and he asked X to
meet him at the railway station and accordingly, X came and met him at the
railway station in Delhi and the he brought her back to Dibrugarh. When he
asked his daughter about the incident, she informed him that the accused
took her from her grandmother’s house and promised to marry her later on
and then took her to Delhi, but the accused married another girl. Then his
daughter lodged an ejahar with the police.

12)In his cross-examination, he stated that his daughter was married for two
years to another person named Sri Dinesh Kamal at the age of fourteen
years. He brought her back from Dinesh Kamal’s house promising them after
completion of five years, Dinesh Kamal could take back his daughter to his
own house, but after two months, his daughter eloped with the accused.

13) It is true that the victim indeed eloped with the accused and the accused may
have promised to marry her, but the evidence of PW-2 does not inspire
confidence that she was induced by the accused with false promises of

marriage.
14)The victim's grandmother Smti. Mina Prasad testified as PW-3 that the
accused is her grandson. The victim’s present age is sixteen years. Her
parents used to reside in Delhi and so the victim used to stay with her. About
seven months back, the victim went out to the bazaar and did not return.
Then she registered a missing entry. After three years, the victim called her
over phone that she eloped with the accused and that she was fine and it
was not necessary to search for her. Again after five months, the victim called
her from Delhi and informed that the accused abandoned her in a house at
Delhi and he returned to Dibrugarh and did not contact her. The victim X
called the accused over phone several times, but the accused did not
respond. Then she informed her son and daughter-in-law about the victim’s
condition and they went to Delhi and brought her back from Delhi to
Dibrugarh. The victim informed her that she wanted to lodge a case against
the accused, as he abandoned her at Delhi and returned to Dibrugarh with
another girl and married the girl. Accordingly, she lodged an FIR.

15)In her cross-examination, PW-3 testified that when the accused eloped with
the accused person, she was already a married woman and she was married
to a person from Bihar and she was not a divorcee. Thus, the evidence of
PW-3 affirms that the victim who was a married woman, eloped with another
person. PW-3’s evidence does not implicate any inducement from the accused
person’s side. Rather, PW-1’s cross-examination depicts that there was no
compulsion or threats from the accused person to the victim.

16) Smti. Kuldip Kaur testified that both the accused and the victim X are known
to her. The incident took place about a year back. At the time of the incident,
the accused and the victim came to her house and they both stated that they
have entered into marriage and they were desirous to stay in her servant
quarter. She allowed them to stay there for a day or two. The accused was an
old acquaintance and he informed her that he will stay in her daughter's
rented house, but she discouraged them to stay in her daughter's house.
Later, she learnt from her daughter who informed her over phone that the
accused and X went to her house in Delhi and stayed in her rented house.
She then discouraged her daughter from allowing them to stay in her rented
house. Later the victim X returned from Delhi and lodged this case.

17) Thus, it is clear from the evidence of PW-5 that as X and the accused were

not allowed to stay in PW-5's daughter’s rented house in Delhi, she returned
from Delhi to Dibrugarh. It is true that there is evidence that X was below
sixteen years at the time of the incident.

18) Dr. Nibedita Shyam opined as PW-4 that the victim was above fourteen years
and below sixteen years as on 11-04-16. On examination of the victim, no
injuries were detected on her private parts and she had signs of earlier sexual
intercourse. The accused gets the benefit, because the victim's age is taken
to be two years on the higher side which renders her age to be around
eighteen years.

19)In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that the prosecution
failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused induced the victim
X to go with him and thereby abducted her and forced her or seduced her to
illicit intercourse or sold her as domestic help. There is no evidence of sexual
assault upon the victim X. Thereby, the accused Sri Dinesh Majhi is acquitted
from the charges under Section 366 IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO
act and is set at liberty forthwith.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 10" day of

January, 2018.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
APPENDIX

List of witnesses:

1. PW-1 The victim ‘Xx’;

2. PW-2 Sri Gopal Rai;

3. PW-3 Smti. Mina Prasad;

4. PW-4 Dr. Nibedita Shyam;

5. PW-5 Smti. Kuldip Kaur; and
PW-6 SI Bisadu Singh Pho.
List of Exhibits:

1. Ext. 1 FIR;

2. Ext. 2 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;

3. Ext. 3 Medico-legal Report;

4. Ext. 4 Sketch-Map; and

5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

mn

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
