IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON.

PRESENT : Smti. Rita Kar,
Special Judge,
Nagaon

SPECIAL(POCSO) CASE NO.23(N) OF 2018

State of ASSAM —_____ nae anennanneeees Complainant

-Versus -
1. Zakir Hussain
2. Jubeda Khatun
3. Abdul Rezak
4. Muklesur Rahman
5. Fakaruddin and
6. Abdul Rashid —_canasuacees Accused Persons
SF yAe
et al W0oe APPEARANCE
Speer AB
nese a
For the Complainant : Sri M.J.Neog,
Special Public Prosecutor.
For accused Zakir Hussain : Sri M.C.Das, Advocate.
( In custody) Legal Aid Counsel

Accused Abdul Rezak and
Jubeda Khatun has also engaged: Sri M.C.Das, Advocate as
Private Defence counsel.

For the accused Muklesur Rahman,

Fakaruddin and Abdul Rashid : Sri Rafique Ullah,
Advocate.

:14-05-2018, 15-05-2018, 16-05-2018,
17-05-2018, 18-05-2018, 19-05-2018,
21-05-2018, 22-05-2018, 23-05-2018,
24-05-2018, 25-05-2018, 28-05-2018,
29-05-2018, 31-05-2018, 01-06-2018,
02-06-2018, 04-06-2018, 05-06-2018,
06-06-2018, 07-06-2018, 08-06-2018,
11-06-2018, 12-06-2018, 13-06-2018,
14-06-2018, 18-06-2018, 25-06-2018,

Date of evidences

 
26-06-2018, 27-06-2018, 28-06-2018.
Date of defence evidences : 27-07-2018 and 09-08-2018.

Date of Arguments : 23-08-2018, 24-08-2018, 27-08-2018,
28-08-2018 and 29-08-2018.

Date of Judgment : 04-09-2018

Ls The prosecution case in nutshell is that on 23-03-2018

informant, Md. Sharfat Ali lodged an FIR with the Officer-in-charge of

Batadraba Police Station alleging that on 23-03-2018 at 1.30 p.m.

taking the advantage of absence of their family members in the house,

accused Zakir Hussain and his two associates (who are child in

conflict-with-law) hereinafter will be referred as CCL or CCLs,
~ a ‘ee, trespassed into their house and at first committed rape on his 12 years
packet SN gsamn minor daughter, namely 'X' by gagging her mouth with cloth and
Nagar handkerchief and then set fire on her body by pouring kerosene oil
which was brought by him to pump out water from the pond.
Subsequently, they came to their house and found her daughter in
grave condition and as such shifted her to Nagaon Civil hospital for
treatment and on asking her daughter, she stated that the above
named three accused persons forcefully committed rape and then set
fire on her body. Although his daughter was shifted to Nagaon Civil
Hospital but for her better treatment doctor referred her to G.M.C.H.,
subsequently she died at G.M.C.H which was informed to him by his
son. Hence, the F.I.R.

Ds On receiving the F.I.R., the Officer-in-charge of Batadraba
Police Station accordingly entered the GDE No.447 dated 23-03-2018
and registered the Batadraba PS. Case No. 64/2018 U/s.
448/376(D)/201/302 IPC R/W 4 of POCSO Act against accused Zakir
Hussain and two C.C.Ls and started usual investigation thereon. Upon

 

 

 
S$?

. ane ,

“age

att suds

~ pgsom

completion of the investigation police laid charge sheet in the case U/s.
448/376(D)/201/302 IPC R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act against accused
Zakir Hussain and two CCLs_ while charge u/s 120(B)/212/201 IPC is
framed against accused Abdul Razzek, Jubeda Khatun, Abdul Rashid,
Muklesur Rahman and Fakaruddin.

3. Accordingly, accused persons, namely, Zakir Hussain,
Jubeda Khatun, Abdul Rezzak, Muklesur Rahman, Fakaruddin and Abdul
Rashid were furnished with all the necessary copies as required U/s.
207 of Cr.P.C by the court.

4. After hearing both sides and perusal of papers u/s 173 of
Cr.P.C, charge u/s 448/302/201 IPC Read with Section 6 of the POCSO
Act is framed against accused Zakir Hussain. Charge u/s 120(B)/212
IPC is slapped against accused Jubeda Khatun, Muklesur Rahman,
Abdul Rashid, Abdul Rezzak. Charge against accused Fakaruddin is
framed u/s 202 IPC. The charges were read over and explained to all
the accused persons and they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

5. During trial of the case the prosecution side examined
altogether 46 PWs. Accused persons were examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C.
The defence side examined 3(three) witnesses in their support.

Defense plea is of total denial of the prosecution case.

6. Points for decision in respect of accused Zakir
Hussain :-

(a)(i) Whether Zakir Hussain on or about the 23-03-2018 at
about 1.30 p.m., committed criminal trespassed into the
house of Sarfat Ali alongwith two other C.C.L with intent to
commit offence and thereby committed an offence
punishable U/s. 448 of IPC ?

ii) | Whether on or about the same day, time and place accused
Zakir Hussain along with two C.C.L committed gang

penetrative sexual assault on 'X' a girl of 9 years and

 
oO”

Ww A: \2 .
nei 5 nso

thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 6 of POCSO
Act ?

iii) Whether on or about the same day, time and place accused

(iv)

Zakir Hussain along with two CCL committed murder by
causing the death of 'X' and thereby committed an
offence punishable under section 302 IPC ?

Whether on or about the same day, time and place Zakir
put fire on 'X' so to cause disappearance of evidence of
committing penetrative sexual assault on her and thereby

committed an offence punishable u/s 201 of IPC ?

Points for determination in respect of accused Abdul
Rezzak, Jubeda Khatun, Muklesur Rahman and

(b)(i) Whether on or about the 23-03-2018 the accused Abdul

ii)

(c)(i)

Rezzak, Jubeda Begum, Muklisur Rahman and Abdul
Rashid agreed to screen the offender Zakir Hussain from
punishment and in pursuance of the said agreement
caused Zakir to escape and thereby committed an offence
punishable U/s. 120-B of IPC ?

Whether on or about the 23-03-2018 accused Abdul
Rezzak, Jubeda Begum, Muklisur Rahman and Abdul
Rashid harboured or concealed the offender Zakir Hussain
so to screen him from punishment and thereby committed
an offence punishable u/s 212 IPC ?

Points for determination in respect of accused
Fakaruddin :-

Whether knowing or having reason to believe that on or
about 23-03-2018 accused Zakir and other committed
rape and murder of the daughter of informant at Lalung
gaon and accused Fakaruddin intentionally ommitted to
give information of its commission, which he was legally
bound to give information and thereby committed an
offence punishable U/s. 202 of IPC ?
7. Gist of prosecution evidence.

Now, let us consider what are the evidence adduced by

these PWs.

PW. 1,Sarfat Ali has deposed that incident took place on
23-03-2018 at about 1.30 p.m. At the time of incident he was working
in his field along with his wife and one daughter. Then he heard hue
and cry and saw smoke coming out from his house. He came running to
his house and found her daughter namely, 'X' lying on the ground and
her body was burnt. Then he queried his daughter what had happened
to her. His daughter then told him that Zakir and two C.C.Ls committed
rape on her by gagging her mouth and thereafter tore her urinated

organ with a knife. He further stated that his daughter also told him

ome

. ql? that Zakir directed one of the CCLs to bring oil and pour on her body.
oul won Thereafter one of the specified CCLs poured oil on her body and Zakir
rs v of s +".

Lata set fire on her body. PW 1 further deposed that thereafter ambulance
were called on and somebody informed the police. After the ambulance
came, the girl was shifted to Nagaon Civil Hospital. He also
accompanied with his daughter. After sometime, the doctor of Civil
Hospital refered his daughter to G.M.C.H. At Guwahati Hospital, doctor
declared his daughter dead. On the next day, the dead-body of his
daughter was shown to him. He further stated that after performing
post-mortem examination, dead-body of his daughter was handed over
to them. Thereafter they came back along with the dead-body. PW 1
further deposed that on the day of incident at about 11 p.m. he lodged
the Ejahar. Police recorded his statement. Police also produced him

before Magistrate and caused his statement recorded.

PW 2, Murshida Begum has deposed that the occurrence
took place on the last part of this March, on a day, at 1.30 p.m. At that
time she was sleeping along with her one month infant. She further

stated that then she heard hue and cry from the house of her father-in-

 
law. On hearing hue and cry she came out from her house and saw
accused Zakir Hussain and the two C.C.Ls going away from her father-
in-law's house. She further stated that on noticing smoke coming out
from her father-in-law's house, she went inside and saw fire on the
body of 'X'. She further stated that on her alarming, neighbouring
people came there and doused fire on the body of the 'X'. Thereafter,
her father-in-law, mother-in-law and her elder sister-in-law came there
on hearing noise of the people. She further deposed that then her
father-in-law asked to her sister-in-law (deceased) that how it
happened. Then 'X' told him that Zakir and the two C.C.Ls committed
rape on her and tore her private part with a knife. PW 2 further told
that 'X' had also told her father-in-law that accused gagged her mouth,
tied her hands and legs and then Zakir Hussain asked one of the
specified C.C.Ls to bring oil from the adjacent room and to pour oil on
her body and thereafter one of the C.C.Ls poured oil and Zakir lit the
yea fire on her body with a match stick. Thereafter, attending people
. wddes called 108 ambulance and shifted 'X' to Nagaon Civil Hospital and from

Sper cs basal Nagaon, 'X' was shifted to Guwahati and subsequently she died at

 

Guwahati. She also deposed that her father-in-law lodged a case and
police during investigation recorded her statement. From their house,
police seized one kerosene oil gallon, a bed, a mat made up of bamboo
(locally called dhari), 'X''s part-burnt head hair, cloth with which mouth
was gagged, left out burnt part of 'X' clothes. She also stated that
after 4 days of incident police seized some soil from the place of
occurrence. Ext.1 is the seizure list, Ext.1(1) is her signature, Ext.2 is
another seizure list and Ext.2(1) is her signature. PW 2 further deposed
that in the court except the bed, she could see all other seized items.
Material Ext.A is the kerosene gallon, Material Ext.B is the part burnt
piece of clothes of 'X', Ext.C is the ‘dhari' (mats made up of bamboo),
Material Ext.D is the seized land. Police produced her before a
Magistrate and caused recorded her statement. Ext.3 is the her
statement recorded by Magistrate and Ext.3(1) and Ext.3(2) is her

Signatures.

 
PW 3, Nur Mohammad Faruki has deposed that incident
was of 23-03-2018 and he heard that the incident took place at around
1/1.30 p.m. and at that time he was on his N.R.C duty. He deposed
that in the evening at around 3.30 p.m. while he was returning from his
N.R.C. duty, he heard from the village people that there occurred a
serious incident in the house of Sarafat Ali. Getting the information, he
went to the house of Sarafat Ali and found about 200 to 300 people
congregated there and police were also present. This witness further
stated that he could know from the daughter-in-law of Sarafat, namely
Murshida that while 'X' was sleeping after she came from school, then
accused Zakir and the two C.C.Ls committed rape on her and
thereafter lit fire on her body. Police seized gallon, bed, mat, half burnt

hair, half burnt clothes from the place of occurrence and he put his

ee, (3 signature in the seizure list Ext.1 vide Ext.1(2) . He deposed that seized
.  yydae> materials are seen in the court and police recorded his statement.
cpatit pasa

jag?

} PW 4, Safiqul Islam has deposed that occurrence took
place on 23-03-2018 and on the day of incident at about 3.30 p.m. he
was in his house. At that time he heard noises of people in the house of
Sarafat Ali, so he rushed there. He further deposed that at the place of
occurrence, he heard from the other people that Zakir Hussain and the
two C.C.Ls after committing bad work (intercourse) set fire on her body.
He also deposed that the daughter-in-law of Sarafat, namely, Murshida
told them that Zakir Hussain and the two C.C.Ls after committing rape
(bad work) left the spot from the back-door. He also deposed that he
had seen police at the place of occurrence and police seized a bed, a
mat, a gallon, gagging cloth and half burnt hair from the room of the
occurrence and obtained his signature in Ext.1, seizure list vide
Ext.1(3). He deposed that he has seen the seized items in the court.
PW 4 further deposed that when he reached at the place of occurrence,
the 'X' was just shifted to Nagaon Civil Hospital. After about 3/4 days of
the incident, police went to the school of Zakir Hussain, the two C.C.Ls
and 'X' and seized some documents. At the time of seizure, he was
present and he put his signature in the seizure list. Ext.4 is the seizure
list and Ext.4(1) is his signature. PW 4 deposed that on the next date

 

 

 

 

 
when police visited the school, they could know that Zakir Hussain was
brought to the Nagaon Sadar Police Station. Thereafter he along with
five other people went to the Police Station. He further deposed that
when police interrogated Zakir, he admitted the incident and also told
police that he would show the place of occurrence. Thereafter, police
took Zakir Hussain to the house of Sarfat Ali and then Isfakur, father of
Sofiqul Islam namely, Abdul Barek and he accompanied them. After
reaching the place of occurrence, Zakir elaborately narrated how he
had committed the incident. PW 4 further deposed that thereafter
police took Zakir to his house and he (accused) showed a lungi
spreading on a bicycle which the accused was wearing at the time of
commiting the offence. Police seized the said lungi and he put his
signature on the seizure list. Ext.5 is the seizure list and Ext.5(1) is his
signature. He further deposed that the seized lungi is seen in the court

and Mat. Ext.E is the said seized lungi. Police recorded his statement.

PW 5, Nazimul Hoque has deposed that on last 24-03-
2018 he went to Batadraba Police Station for some business and at
that time it was about 2/2.30 p.m. At the police station he met the two
C.C.Ls . Police seized the wearing Army uniform half pant of one of the
C.C.Ls] and wearing jeans pant of another C.C.Ls. Ext.6 is the said
seizure list and Ext.6(1) is his signature. Ext.7 is the another seizure list

and Ext.7(1) is his signature.

PW 6, Safiqul Islam, S/O Abdul Barik Anmed has deposed
that occurrence took place in the current year of March. On the
relevant day he heard about the incident at about 2 p.m. of the day but
he did not visit the place of occurrence. On the day of incident at about
11/11.30 p.m. of the night while he was guarding a N.R.C Centre near
the Batadraba Police Station as Secretary of V.D.P., at that time Sofiqul
Islam, S/O late Hajarat Ali and Sarfat Ali came to the Police Station and
Sarafat Ali asked him to write an ejahar. He further deposed that on
asking about the incident, Sarafat stated him that on that day at about
1/1.30 p.m. while they were not in the house, then Zakir Hussain and

the two C.C.Ls came to their house and committed rape on his

 

 

 
ea AG

gpecial seam
Nagao" *

daughter and thereafter poured kerosene oil and set fire on her body.
His daughter was brought to the Nagaon Civil Hospital but finding her
condition critical she was referred to Guwahati but at Guwahati she
succumbed to her injuries. He further deposed that as per version of
Sarafat Ali he wrote the ejahar. Ext.8 is the ejahar and Ext.8(1) is his
signature as writer of the ejahar. In the ejahar Sarafat put his thumb
impression. PW 6 further deposed that on the next day he again visited
the Police Station and at that time it was about 1/1.30 p.m. and he
could see police interrogating the two C.C.Ls . Police seized wearing
shorts (half pant) of one of the C.C.Ls and wearing jeans long pant
(trousers) and his signature was obtained in the seizure list. Ext.6 and
Ext.7 are the seizure list while Ext.6(2) and 7(2) are his signatures. PW
6 heard that on 28-03-2018 accused Zakir was arrested by police as
such he along with another Sofiqul Islam, Isfaqur Rahman came to
Nagaon Sadar P.S. and saw police interrogating Zakir. PW 6 further
deposed that then Zakir admitted before police that he along with the
two C.C.Ls committed the offence and also told that he could show the
place and also could tell how he did the incident and further told that
he could show the lungi which he was wearing at the time of incident.
Then police took Zakir along with two Magistrates and video
photographer to the house of Sarafat Ali and they were also with them.
He further deposed that then Zakir elaborately told them how they
entered into the house, through which side they went out, wherefrom
they had brought the kerosene oil. Zakir also told them that while they
were leaving the house from the backside, then Murshida saw them.
Thereafter Zakir led the police to his own house and showed a lungi
kept in a room on a bicycle. Police accordingly seized the lungi and
obtained his signature in the seizure list. Ext.5 is the seizure list and
Ext.5(1) is his signature. He could see the seized lungi in the court.

During investigation police recorded his statement.

PW 7, Safiqul Islam, S/O late Zafar Ali has deposed that on
27-03-2018 poiice visited to their Lalung Gaon L.P. school and sought
him Admission Register in respect of 'X', the two C.C.Ls and Zakir

Hussain and accordingly he placed the Admission Register of 2003 and

 

 

 
10

Class IV and V Attendance Registers to Police. He also deposed that on
examining their admission register he issued one School Certificate in
the name of Zakir. Police accordingly seized the said Admission
register, Attendance Register and School Certificate and obtained his
signature in the seizure list. Ext.9 is the said seizure list and Ext.9(1) is
his signature. The police vide another seizure list seized remaining
three school certificates and Ext.4 is the said seizure list, Ext.4(2) is his
signature and seized items are seen in the court. Mat.Ext.F is the
certificate issued in the name of 'X', Mat. Ext.G is the certificate issued
in the name of one of the C.C.Ls, Mat. Ext.H is the certificate issued in
the name of another C.C.L, Mat. Ext.l is the certificate issued in the
name of Zakir Hussain, Mat. Ext. is the attendance Register of 2018 of
class IV (four), Mat. Ext.K is the Attendance Register of 2018 of class V
(five), Mat. Ext.L is the Admission register of 2003. Police recorded his

statement.

PW 8, Habibur Rahman has deposed that for the incident
that took place on 23-03-2018 in connection with Batadraba PS.Case
No.64/18, the Supdt. of Police formed a team to apprehend the
miscreants. Accordingly he engaged a source and on 25-03-2018, in
the evening around 4 p.m. his source informed him that accused Zakir
Hussain is at Laogaon and he asked the source to confirm his exact
location and thereafter he reported the matter to the Supdt. of Police
who in turn asked him to keep the information secretly. Later on at
about 6 p.m., Addl. S.P. after confirming the mobile location, directed
them to go to that place. Thereafter they kept watch on both the roads
leading from Laugaon to Nagaon. At that time SI Dhiren Kakati, in-
charge, Traffic and other three police staff were with him and they were
in a private vehicle. He further deposed that while they were waiting at
Gousala at about 7 p.m, his source informed over phone that Zakir
Hussain, his mother along with few others were leaving Laugaon to
Nagaon by a field route. Thereafter they left Gousala road and moved
to the road that leads Teliapati to Laugaon. In the Teliapati to Laugaon
road after crossing a bridge and proceeding a little distance, they could
see Zakir climbing on embankment wearing black shirt followed by a

 
.» Agsan

11

lady. When he addressed Zakir with his name, he stopped and then
they apprehended Zakir, then the mother of Zakir urged them to take
her also along with them. Thereafter they boarded them in their vehicle
to Nagaon Sadar Police Station. Apprehended pesons were interrogated
at the police station and they informed them that after reaching
Chaparmukh they have planned to go to Kerela by Kerela going train.
On their further interrogation, they came to know that Zakir was taking
shelter at Laugaon in the house of Abdul Malek and Zakir's brother-in-
law, mother, brother and father arranged money to deport him to

Kerela. Investigating Officer recorded his statement.

PW 9, Wahida Khatun has deposed that 'X', Rehena,
Maina, one of the C.C.Ls and she read in the same class and are
friends. She deposed that while police recorded her statement at their
school at that time their teacher Smti. Trishna Priya Buragohain was
present. She further deposed that she has stated before the police that
‘X' told her that one of the CCLs loved her and she also loved the C.C.L.
PW 9 further deposed that before one month of police visit in their
school, 'X' told all these things to her. She deposed that 'X' also told
her that she had been loving one of the CCLs since one year and she
made this statement before police. She also deposed that she has
stated before police that they sit near to each other in the class, wink
and chat with each other. She also deposed that she has stated before
the police that sometimes another CCL came to their class when their
sir and madam were not in class and quarrelled with 'X' and sometimes
beat her also then 'X' used to cry. She deposed that one of the CCLs is
the son of 'X' 's elder uncle. PW 9 deposed that she did not know the

reason of their quarrel.

PW 10, Trishnapriya Buragohain(teacher) has deposed
that after 4/5 days of death of 'X' police came to their school and in
presence of her and another teacher Kabita Biswas, statements of

Wahida Khatun, Maina Sultana and Rehena Begam were recorded.

 
 

12

PW 11, Smti. Bipasha Kalita has deposed that on 28-03-
2018 she was working in the office of D.C.Office, Nagaon as Assistant
Commissioner and on_ that day at about 12.30 am., Deputy
Commissioner, Nagaon has ordered her to go to the place of
occurrence in respect of Batadraba PS.Case No.64/18. Accordingly, she
and her colleague, Assistant Commissioner Rinku Boro, Police, one
Camera-man, taking Zakir along with them went to the place of
occurrence. At the place of occurrence Zakir narrated how he did the
incident. Thereafter Zakir led them to his house which is situated at a
little distance from the place of occurrence and showed a lungi kept on
a bicycle and told them that on the day of incident he was wearing the
said lungi. Police seized the said lungi infront of her and obtained her
Signature in the seizure list. Ext.5 is the seizure list and Ext.5(3) is her
Signature. Seized lungi is seen in the court. Police recorded her

statement.

P.W.12, Kabita Biswas has deposed that she is a teacher of
Lalung-gaon New L.P. School. On 27-03-2018 police came to their
school in connection with the incident of 'X', who was a student of
class V(five) of their school and recorded the statement of 'X' 's

classmates Wahida Khatun, Maina, Rehena and four of the teachers.

PW 13, Md. Ataur Rahman has deposed that he is a
teacher of Lalung-gaon New L.P. School. On 27-03-2018 he was at
school and on that day at about 10.30 a.m. police came to their school
in connection with a case registered for the incident of their student
namely, 'X'. Police enquired him in connection with Student of their
school namely, 'X', two of the C.C.Ls and Zakir Hussain and from their
school police seized Attendance Registers of class IV (four) and class
V(five) and also 2003, Admission Register vide Ext.9 and Ext.9(2) is
his signature. Vide Ext.9, police seized the school certificate of accused
Zakir Hussain. Police also seized the school certificates of ‘X', and two
of the C.C.Ls Ext.4 is the said seizure list and Ext.4(3) is his signature.
He deposed that said seized items is seen in the court. Police recorded

his statement.

 
a q-i2
St gudges
ecla s gm
wage" ASS

13

PW 14, Halima Khatun has deposed that incident was
occurred more than a two months ago, on a day time at about
1.30/2.00 p.m and at that time she was in her house. She deposed that
hearing hue and cry towards their western side, she rushed to the
house of Sarafat and found 'X' lying on the ground in burn condition.
Fire was extinguished and after 10/15 minutes, 'X' started to breathe.
Thereafter she and Murshida lifted 'X' on a bed and at that time Sarafat
came from field and asked 'X' what had happened to her. Then 'X' told
them that Zakir Hussain and the two of the C.C.Ls committed rape on
her and torn her urinated organ and thereafter set fire on her body.
Thereafter 108 ambulance was called and shifted 'X' to Nagaon Civil
Hospital and then again shifted her to Guwahati but she died at
Guwahati . Police recorded her statement and also caused recorded her
statement before a Magistrate. Ext.10 is her statement before

Magistrate and Ext.10(1) and Ext.10(2) are her signatures.

PW 15, Mokshed Ali has deposed that incident took place
prior to 2 months ago. The incident occurred in day time at about
1/1.30 p.m. and at that time he was in his house. At that time he heard
hue and cry that fire was caught in the house of Sarafat and as such he
went to the house of Sarafat with a bucket and saw fire on the body of
Sarafat Ali's daughter and he doused fire by splashing water. He
deposed that out of fear he came back to his house but after sometime
he came again and heard from the mother, father and other persons
that Zakir and two of the CCLs committed rape on her. (At this stage
PW 15 is declared hostile by the prosecution).

PW 16, Wahida Begum has deposed that incident occurred
two months ago in a day time at about 1/1.30 p.m. and at that time
she was sleeping in her house after taking lunch. She deposed that at
that time she heard that fire was caught in the house of Sarafat and as
such she carried bucket of water from a pond and went to the house of
Sarafat and saw fire on the body of 'X'. She deposed that she poured
water on the body of 'X' and out of panic she came back to her house.

 
14

She deposed that she again went to the house of Sarafat Ali's house
and learnt that 'X' was shifted to Nagaon Civil Hospital and further
heard that Zakir and the two C.C.Ls committed rape on 'X' and Set fire
after pouring kerosene oil. Police recorded his statement and also got

recorded her statement before Magistrate.

PW 17, Rinku Boro has deposed that on 28-03-2018 she
was serving as Assisstant Commissioner in the office of the Deputy
Commissioner, Nagaon and on that day, the Deputy Commissioner and
Addl. District Magistrate instructed her and her colleague Bipasha
Kalita that in connection with Batadraba incident, the accused will be
taken to the place of occurrence at Lalung gaon and they have also to
go with them. As per direction, she and Bipasha Kalita, accompanied
by police escort went to Lalung gaon. At first they visited the place of
occurrence where the accused narrated elaborately how he did the
incident. Accused told them that after the girl came to her house

—Se~ s he(Zakir) along with two others entered into her house and_ fastened

_-

jah Judges the mouth of the girl and committed rape on her and thereafter
Sera0n », Asse! collected a kerosene gallon from other side of the partitioned room and
poured it and set fire on her body. Thereafter they (accused persons)

fled away from the backside door of the house. Police drew sketch map

of the place of occurrence and the accompanied photographer did the

videography. Ext.11 is the sketch map, Ext.11(1) is her signature. From

the place of occurrence, the accused (Zakir) took them to his house

and showed a lungi unfurled on a bicycle and told them that at the

time of committing the offence he was wearing the lungi. Police seized

the said lungi and also recorded her statement.

PW 18, Md. Ispakur Rahman has deposed that incident
occurred in the month of March of. this year. He heard that accused
Zakir and the two C.C.Ls committed rape on 'X' and set fire on her
body. After 4/5 days of the incident, he came to Batadraba and know
that police has arrested accused Zakir, so he along with 4/5 inhabitants
of Lalung gaon came to Nagaon Sadar Police Station. He further
deposed that at the police station, a police of traffic branch

 

_— HH ————— wi 3 ai
15

interrogated accused Zakir infront of them where Zakir admitted that
he along with accused the two C.C.Ls committed the offence. Police
asked Zakir to show the place of occurrence, then Zakir told them that
he could show the place of occurrence and further added that he could
also show the lungi which he was wearing at the time of committing
the offence. Thereafter, Magistrate, one photographer, DSP and police
staff along with them went to the house of 'X'. Zakir described the
police how he did the offence. Zakir told that he along with the two
C.C.Ls together committed rape on 'X' and thinking that if 'X' remains
alive there would be danger, so, they think better to kill her, and as
such from the adjacent room they brought a kerosene gallon, then one
of the CCLs poured kerosene on 'X' and Zakir lit fire on her body and
thereafter from the back-door they skipped off but at that time the
sister-in-law of 'X', namely, Murshida saw them. Police drew sketch map
and video recorded the place of occurrence. When police asked Zakir
about his lungi, Zakir took the police and Magistrate to his house and

a>
ulate showed a lungi in a room spread over a bicycle which the police seized
ia ’ ;

een :: ASSAM it. Police recorded his statement.

PW 19, Ali Hussain has deposed that occurrence took
place 2 months ago, on a day at about 12.00/1.00 O'Clock. At that time
he cross-over Raha by driving his vehicle and was at Bhurbhuri. At
about 2/2.30 p.m. of the day, he was informed over phone from his
house that his sister was raped and set fire on her body. After reaching
home, at around 4 p.m. he came to Nagaon Civil Hospital and had seen
the body of 'X' burnt with fire. He further deposed that he met his
father, mother and one another sister at the hospital and 'X' was
speaking at that time. PW 19 further deposed that on asking, 'X' told
that accused Zakir Hussain and the two C.C.Ls committed rape on her
and thereafter they splashed kerosene oil and set fire on her and
further torn her urinating organ with a knife. At around 7.30/8.00 p.m.
his sister was referred to Gauhati Medical College Hospital from
Nagaon Hospital. After his sister was shifted to Gauhati Medical College
Hospital, the doctor declared her dead and during that night they
stayed at Guwahati. On the next day at about 12 O'Clock his father

 
i ages
enecial ju

Ay:

16

visited Guwahati and they identified the dead-body and at that time
Magistrate was present. He further deposed that at the time of
identification he put his thumb impression in a paper. Police also

recorded his evidence during investigation.

PW 20, Amir Hamja has deposed that on 24-03-2018 he
was serving as ASI at Doomdumia P.P., then Batadraba P.S. directed him
in regards of the incident occurred at Batadraba on 23-03-2018, the
deceased is at Gauhati Medical College Hospital and inquest and post-
mortem would be held on the dead-body, so he has to go there. As per
the direction, he along with H/C Jiten Bordoloi went to the G.M.C.H and
then the police of Bhangagarh P.S. conducted Inquest over the dead
body by a Magistrate and at the time of inquest he was present there.
He further deposed that the photographer who accompanied with them
did the videography and the doctor of GMCH conducted the post-
mortem examination over the dead-body and at that time he was
present there. After the post-mortem was over, he along with the
family members of the deceased brought escorted the dead body to
Batadraba and handed over to the family members of the deceased.

Police recorded his statement.

PW 21, Jiten Bordoloi has deposed that on 24-03-2018 he
was serving at Batadraba PS. and on that day the Officer-in-charge of
the P.S. directed him to go to Guwahati along with ASI Amir Hamja and
further directed them that in connection with the incident of Batadraba
PS. at Lalung gaon, they would have to bring the dead body of
deceased after the inquest and post-mortem is over at G.M.C.H to
Batradaba. As per the direction he along with A.S.1 Amir Hamja went to
G.M.C.H and there Inquest over the dead-body was caused by a
Magistrate and he was present at that time. After the post-mortem
examination on the dead body was over then he along with A.S.I Amir
Hamja, family members of the deceased brought escorted the dead

body to Batadraba. Police recorded his statement.

 
SFr

a

.
anaci

“0.300 *

‘)

17

PW 22, Srabana Sonowal has deposed that on 24-03-2018
she was posted at Guwahati as Asstt. Commissioner in the office of the
Deputy Commissioner, Kamrup (M) and on that day, A.D.C (Magistracy)
directed her to conduct inquest over a dead body at G.M.C.H.
Accordingly she went to Bhangagarh P.S. and thereafter to the Morgue
of G.M.C.H which is nearer to Bhangagarh police Station. In the
morgue, she conducted inquest over the dead-body of deceased, age
12 years, D/O complainant of village Dhanibheti, PS. Batadraba. The
deceased was identified by Md. Sarfat Ali and Ali Hussain. She found
burn injury on the dead body. The body was completely burn. To
ascertain the cause of death, she suggested for P.M. examination. After
performing inquest she prepared the inquest report. Ext.12 is the
inquest report. Ext.12(1), 12(2), 12(3), 12(4), 12(5) and 12(6) are her

signatures.

PW 23, Dr. Kapil Pator has deposed that on 24-03-2018 he
was posted at Batadraba M.P.H.C, Nagaon as Medical and Health
Officer and on that day at about 3.10 p.m. he examined one of the
CCLs village Lalung gaon, P.S. Batadraba produced by SI Maheswar
Saikia beforre him and was registered in their PH.C vide M/L 1454 and

found the following :-

An abrasion seen on glans pennis at the time of
examination. Nature of injury- simple. Ext.13 is his report and Ext.13(1)

is his signature.

PW 24, Zakir Hussain, S/O Md. Abdul Rashid has deposed
that incident occurred prior to two months ago. At that time he was in
his house and at around 3/3.30 p.m. when he awoke up from his sleep,
he saw many people passing by their road. On asking the people, they
told him that they were going to Sarfat Ali's house and further told that
Sarfat daughter was burnt with fire. Thereafter he also went to the
house of Sarfat and saw many people gather there and also police
vehicle and people were narrating that Zakir Hussain and his elder

uncle's son and one another boy committed bad work to the daughter

 

 
18

of Sarfat and thereafter set ablazed. Police seized bed(paleng),
mat(dhari), clothes and one gallon from the house of Sarfat Ali. Ext.1 is
the seizure list, Ext.1(4) is his signature. Seized materials are seen in
the court. Police recorded his statement.

PW 25, Raiman Nessa has deposed that incident took
place more than a two months ago. The incident took place at about
1/1.30 p.m. At the time of incident she along with her husband and
daughter were working at their field. At that time, infront of their house
many people gather and were making hue and cry. On hearing hue and
cry her husband and daughter rushed there and she also followed
them. At the house, she saw that her daughter (since deceased) body
was set ablazed and she was lying in bed. Then her husband asked her
daughter (since deceased), “ what happened to you, tell me.” Then
deceased told that Zakir Hussain, the two C.C.Ls committed rape on
her and fastened her hands and legs and thereafter poured kerosene
oil and alight fire. Deceased also stated that one of the CCLs with a
knife inserted in her private part and tore up her internal parts.
Deceased further added that if she is allowed to Stay alive, then it
would be dangerous for them, therefore, it would be good for them to
kill her. Subsequently, they shifted the deceased to Nagaon Civil
Hospital in a vehicle. PW 25 further deposed that she, father of the
deceased, her elder daughter and one woman accompanied with the
deceased. She further deposed that when doctor asked her about the
relationship of her with the deceased, then she told that deceased is
her daughter. She further deposed that then the doctor asked her to go
from there and they treated the deceased. She further deposed that
she could not say the kind of treatment provided to her and on the
same day at about 6/6.30 p.m. her daughter was shifted to Guwahati.
She and her elder daughter accompanied the victim (since deceased)
to Guwahati and at Guwahati Hospital doctor declared her daughter
dead. On the next day, they brought the dead-body of deceased to
their home. Police recorded her statement in connection with the
incident and caused her statement recorded before Magistrate and she

put her thumb impression.

 
en q-18

~

Ce es f
Ober. ®

vai SUdde
i . pgsam

19

PW 26, Sanjita Khatun has deposed that occurrence took
place about 2 months ago, on a day at about 1/1.30 p.m. At that time
she was at the field along with her father, then they heard hue and cry
that fire was caught in their house. Her father proceeded ahead of
them and then she and her mother followed him to their house. At the
house they found that body of deceased was set ablazed and people
lifted her on a bed. Her father asked deceased what had happened to
her and then her sister (X) told that Zakir the two C.C.Ls committed
raped by tying her hands, legs and mouth and tore her private part
with a knife and subsequently, Zakir told that if she lived alife, it would
be dangerous to them and Zakir instructed one of the CCLs to bring a
kerosene gallon. One CCL brought kerosene gallon already in their
house and splash on the body of 'X' and Zakir set fire on her.
Thereafter an ambulance was called and 'X' was shifted to Nagaon Civil
Hospital and she, her father, mother and one woman also went to
Nagaon Hospital. After a little treatment at Nagaon Hospital, her sister
was asked to shift to Guwahati Hospital. Thereafter she, her father, her
mother and brother proceeded to Guwahati but her father came back
from half way to Guwahati. After reaching Guwahati Hospital, doctor
declared her daughter dead and on the next day they brought the dead
body to their house. Police recorded her statement. Police seized about
1 kg of soil from the place of occurrence where in Ext.2 is the said
seizure list and Ext.2(2) is her signature. Police also caused her
statement recorded before a Magistrate. Ext.14 is her statement before

Magistrate and Ext.14(1) and 14(2) are her signatures.

PW 27, Dr. Pallabi Hazarika has deposed that 23-03-2018
she was performing indoor duty from 1.30 p.m. to 5 p.m. at B.P.Civil
Hospital, Nagaon. At around 4.30 p.m. Dr. Bhaswati Sharma, who was
performing casuality duty informed her over phone that police has
submitted a requisition to record a dying declaration of one patient of
burn unit. On getting the requisition, she went to burn unit and saw a
girl with full body burn and at that time two nurses were attending the

girl. Two or three female persons were also there. She deposed that

 
ao

»
wi

ol cage
7 : pasa

20

while she asked about the guardian of the said girl, then a woman
identified herself as mother of the said girl. The girl was in conscious
condition and the girl told them that she is feeling hot and further
asked to make her cold. For recording the treatment of the girl, she
sent out other persons to go outside the room. PW 27 further deposed
that she was along with the two nurses in the room and then she asked
the girl of her name and the name of her father. Thereafter, she
recorded her dying declaration. Ext.15 is the carbon copy of requisition
of police for recording dying declaration, Ext.15(1) is the signature of
Dr. Bhaswati Sharma and her signature is acquainted to her. (Ext.15 is
exhibited under objection), Ext.16 is the dying declaration recorded by
her, Ext.16(1) is her signature. The dying declaration was subsequently
seized by police. Ext.17 is the seizure of dying declaration and

Ext.17(1) is her signature. Police recorded her statement.

PW 28, Dr. Netramoni Kakoti has deposed that on 24-03-
2018 he was posted at Gauhati Medical College Hospital, Guwahati as
Asstt. Professor and on that day, at about 2.45 p.m. he did the post-
mortem examination on the dead-body of 'X', of village Dhaniabheti,
P.S. Batadraba, District Nagaon, Assam brought from morque at
G.M.C.H,.Bed. No.8 with reference to Bhangagarh PS. GDE No.500
dated 24-03-2018 which was identified by H/G Sidheswar Kalita and
Sarfat Ali. Inquest report and dead body challan were also furnished by

police.

On examination he found the followings:-
External Appearance.

One female dead body of average build, swarthy
complexion, covered by white cloth, eyes were closed, mouth partly
open, body cold on touch, rigormortis - present all over the body. Anus,
vagina, brows, eyes laches, axilliary hairs, pubic hairs are burnt and

singed.

 
21

Injuries : - Epidermal as well as dermoepidermal burn
face, all sides of the neck, both axilla, all sides of both arms, all sides of
both forearms, all sides of both palms front and back of the chest, front
and back of the abdomen, perineum, both buttocks, all sides of both
thighs, all sides of right leg, all sides of left leg except lateral aspect of
left leg. The floor of the burn arms are highly congested, hyperemic,
separated from healthy tissues by a red line and covered 96% of total
body surface area approximately.

Mark of ligature on neck dissection etc. :- burn injury as described.

Cranium and Spinal Canal.

Scalp- As described, Skull, Vertebrae - Healthy,
Membrane - congested.

Brain - Congested, Spinal Cord- not examined.

e918 Mora
ial Judge:
Spec 1, Asem

Walis - As described, Ribs & Cartilage- Healthy, Pleuraw -
congested, Laryax and trachere - Healthy, Right lung - congested, left
lung - congested, Pericar(dium) - congested.

Heart - congested, chambers are full with dark coloured liquid and
clotted blood, Vessels - Healthy.
Abdomen.

Walls - As described, Peritonoum - congested, Mouth, pharynx,
oesophagus - All are healthy, Stomach and its contents- Healthy,
contains about 150 gms of partly digested rice mixed with vegetables.
Small intestine and its contents - - Healthy, contains digested food
particles.

Large intestine and its contents - Healthy, contains fecal matter and
gases.

Liver- congested, Spleen - Healthy, Kidneys- congested, Bladder -
Healthy and Empty,

Organs of generation:- External - As described, Internal -Uterus-

Healthy. Cavity - empty.

Muscles, Bones and Joints.

 
22

Injury - As described, Disease or deformity - not detected, Fiacture -
Nil, Dislocation - nil.

N.B:- (1) Two glass slides taken from posterior fornix and
around the convix, on microscopic examination no spermatozoa seen.

(2) Video Recording was done at the time of PM
examination but C.D not available at the time writing the report. Video
recording was done by one Basudev Roy.

The doctor further opined that the death was due to shock
, assaulting from burn injury as described, which were ante-mortem
and covered 96% of total body surface are approximately.
Time since death - 12 hours to 24 hours (Approximately).

Ext.18 is the post-mortem report and Ext.18(1) is my

signature.

PW 29, Anjumoni Deka has deposed that on 23-03-2018
she was performing her duty as Staff Nurse at B.P.Civil Hospital and on
that day she had her duty from noon 2 p.m. to 8 p.m. of the night. On
that day at about 4 p.m. while she was performing duty at burn unit, a
burn case was admitted and the patient was of 12 years old female.
She started the treatment of the patient. Along with her a student of
Red-Cross nurse, Smti. Bhabani Das was also there and immediately
they informed the indoor doctor and then indoor Dr. Pallabi Hazarika
came there. When Dr. Pallabi Hazarika asked for the guardian, then the
mother of the girl gave her presence. Thereafter the doctor sent out
the women from the room and asked the girl what had happened to
her. Then the girl(patient) narrated that after she came to her house
from her school, three boys of their village committed rape on her and
poured kerosene oil and set fire on her body. The girl also told the
name of the boy as Zakir and the two CCLs. After the version of the girl
was reduced to writing by Dr. Pallabi Hazarika, she was asked to put
her signature. In Ext.16, Ext.16(2) is her signature. Police recorded her

statement.

PW 30, Bhabani Das has deposed that on 23-03-2018 she
was discharging duty at B.P.Civil Hospital and on that day she had her

 
SF q-\%
lac

, OSes
& pecial 3 ngsom
on id

23

duty from the noon of 2 p.m. to the evening of 8 p.m. On that day at
about 4 p.m. one burn injury case of a girl was admitted in their burn
unit. Along with her Anjumoni Deka was also performing her duty. They
started treatment and informed Dr. Pallabi Hazarika. Dr. Pallabi
Hazarika came to their unit and asked the girl whether she can speak
or not, then the girl replied that she can speak. When doctor asked the
girl how the incident took place, then the girl told that while she was
alone in the house after she came from her school, then Zakir and the
two CCLs came there and committed rape and poured kerosene oil and
set fire on her body. The doctor reduced the version of the girl in
writing and obtained her signature. In Ext.16, Ext.16(3) is her

signature. Police recorded her statement.

PW 31, Dr. Bhaswati Sharma has deposed that on 23-03-
2018 she was performing outdoor Emergency duty at B.P.Civil Hospital
and on that day in the evening at 3/3.30 p.m. one burn injury girl was
brought in the hospital and she arranged the treatment of the girl and
admitted her in the burn unit and thereafter she informed the police of
B.P.Civil Hospital O.P. After sometime police issued a requisition to
record the dying declaration of the girl. Then she informed over phone
to Dr. Pallabi Hazarika to record the dying declaration of the girl and
police requisition was sent to her through a ward boy. Ext.15 (under

objection) is the requisition and Ext.15(1) is her signature.

PW 32, Minakshi Talukdar has deposed that on 03-04-2018
she was performing duty as staff Nurse in surgical ward at B.P.Civil
Hospital. She had been discharging her duty from 2 p.m., and around
3.30 p.m. police came to their surgical ward and seized the burn
register in connection with Batadraba incident and her signature was
obtained. Ext.19 is the said seizure list and Ext.19(2) is her signature.
Subsequently police gave zimma of the said burn register to her. She
deposed that she has brought the said burn register. Ext.20 is the burn
register and Ext.20(1) in page 91 is the relevant entry wherein it was
written as “X”, Age 12, Sex - female, Religion-Muslim. Police recorded

her statement.

 
ral MET
special ., Assam

24

PW 33, Ananta Bordoloi has deposed that on 23-03-2018
he was in his duty at B.P.Civil Hospital Out post. On that day, in the
evening at about 3.30 p.m. a burn case requisition was issued from the
hospital. Thereafter he and ASI Biswajit Nath went to the Emergency
Room and noticed a girl with burn injury. Requisition was issued to
record the dying declaration which they handed over and the said girl
was shifted to burn unit and they also went there. The doctor started
treatment and they came back. Subsequently after recording the
dying declaration of the girl by the doctor, ASI Biswajit Nath seized the
dying declaration. As he was along with the ASI Biswajit, so he also put
his signature in the seizure list. Ext.17 is the seizure list and Ext.17(2)

is his signature. Police recorded his statement.

PW 34, Minakshi Talukdar has deposed that on 02-04-
2018 while she was working as Junior Scientific Officer in the
Chemistry Division, Directorate of Forensic Science, Assam, she
received a parcel through their director which was sent by Addl.
Superintendent of Police, Nagaon in connection with Batadraba PS.
Case No. 64/18 u/s 448/376(D)/201/302 IPC R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act
vide Memo No.IV/167/18/1776 dated 27-03-2018 for chemical
examination. She further deposed that the parcel consisted of 4(four)
exhibits enclosed in a sealed carton box with cloth cover. The facsimile
of the seal was found to be SUPDT. OF POLICE NAGAON. On opening

the cloth cover she found as follows:-

(a)One white coloured 20 litrs gallon containing 350 ml
blue coloured liquid. Marked as Es -'A' MR No.16/18_ --------- Marked
again as C-20/18(a)

(b) One close envelope. Marked as Es-'B' containing few
assorted half burnt piece of clothes --------- Marked again as C-

20/18(b).

 

 
roe"
pouat J

‘a ges
. ASS al iy

25

(c) One close envelope containing a polythene packet
having a bunch of hair. Marked as Ex. 'C' Marked again as C-
20/18(c).

(d) One close polythene packet containing 1 kg soil like
material . Marked as Ext.'D' ....... Marked again as C-20/18(d).

She further deposed that the exhibits C-20/18(a), C-
20/18(b) and C-20/18(d) indicated the presence of Kerosene oil. She
further deposed that according to the report of Biology Division.

“1 Physical and histological examination reveals that the
hair sample under exhibit No.C-20/18(c) is partially burnt hair of human

being.” Ext.21 is her report and Ext.21(1) is her signature.

PW 34 further deposed that on 11-04-2018 she also
received a_ parcel through their director which was sent by
Superintendent of Police, Nagaon in connection with Batadraba 5.
Case No. 64/18 u/s 448/376(D)/201/302 IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act
vide Memo _ No.IV/167/18/1816 dated 29-03-2018 for chemical
examination. The parcel consisted of 4(four) exhibits enclosed in
a sealed carton box with cloth cover. The facsimile of the seal was
found to be SUPDT. OF POLICE NAGAON. She further deposed that on
opening the sealed carton box cloth cover it contained :-

(a) One white polythene packet containing a sky coloured
with Lungi having white colour Stripe. Marked as Ex-'A'. ----- Marked
again as C-21/18(a)

(b) One pink coloured polythene packet containing one

Jeans long pant blue in colour. Marked as Es- 'B' ---- Marked again as

C-21/18(b).

 
SF NB

3

nla

4a

o

ty 3

we

AN” age.
XS sega
gon **

26

(c) One white polythene packet containing a multi
coloured (Camoufloge colour) half pant Marked as Ex- 'C' ow...
Marked again as C-21/18(c).

She further deposed that the Exhibits C-21/18(a), C-
21/18(b) and C-21/18(c) gave negative tests for kerosene oil.

According to the report of Serology Division - “1. The
exhibits C-21/18(c) gave positive test for human semen and exhibits
C-21/18(a) and C-21/18(b) gave negative test for semen”.

Ext.22 is my report and Ext.22(1) is my signature in the

report.

PW 35, Fazal Hoque has deposed that incident took place
little more than a two months ago. The incident occurred about 1.30
p.m. of the day and at that time he was sleeping in his house. At that
time victim's father came to his house and told him that his daughter
was set on fire. On enquiring him about the assailant, Sarfat told him
that Zakir and the two C.C.Ls set her fire. Victim's father also told him
that his daughter is narrating the incident(statement) and he can also
asked her. Then he went to the Sarafat Ali's house and found the girl
laying on a bed. On enquiring, the girl told him that Zakir and the two
C.C.Ls after committing bad work with her set her on fire by pouring
kerosene oil. PW 35 further deposed that then he intimated about the
incident to the Officer-in-charge of Batadraba P.S. Then the Officer-in-
charge, asked him to call an ambulance and to arrange for the
treatment of the girl. In the meantime he came to know that some
other ambulance has been arranged and the ambulance has reached

there. The said ambulance shifted the girl for treatment and was

 
27

accompanied by the mother and father of the girl along with two other

female members of the village. Subsequently at night, he came to

know that the girl was dead. During investigation police recorded his

statement.

PW 36, Abdul Jalil has deposed that incident took place
about 3 months ago, one day at about 1.30/2.00 p.m. of the day and
at that time he was in his house. At that time he noticed people
rushing outside and heard from the people that fire was caught to the
daughter of Sarafat. After hearing the incident, he went to the house

of Sarafat and found many people there and he did not go near the girl.

4
ge, From the people he came to know that the girl was severely burnt and

suey"
engi ‘ nasa
mths 3

thereafter he called for an ambulance. After about half-an-hour or 40
minutes the ambulance has arrived. The said girl was narrating to the
people that Zakir and two C.C.Ls committed bad work on her and set
fire by pouring kerosene oil. After the ambulance reached, the girl was
shifted to Civil Hospital for treatment. Later at night he came to know

that the girl was expired. Police recorded his statment.

PW 37, Basudev Roy has deposed that on 24-03-2018 in
connection with the incident of Batadraba, the Supdt. of Police, Nagaon
deputed him to G.M.C.H along with two police officers to do the
videography of post-mortem of the dead girl. Accordingly he did the
videography of the whole post-mortem. After videography was done
the dead body was brought to Nagaon with escort and he deposited
the video camera to their unit in-charge Joydev Roy. Again on 28-03-
2018, Supdt. of Police called him to the Police Station and directed him
to go the place of occurrence and to do videography of the explanation
given by the accused in respect of the incident. Along with them police

 
28

and two Magistrates, one of them is a lady Magistrate also went there.
On going with them he visted the place of occurrence i.e, Lalung gaon
and then to the house of the accused and he did the videography.
Police drew the sketch map of the place of occurrence and obtained his
signature. Ext.11 is the sketch map, Ext.11(2) is his signature. Police
seized a lungi from the house of accused and obtained his signature.
Ext.5 is the seizure list and Ext.5(4) is his signature. Seized lungi is
seen in the court. After the videography he handed over his video
camera to their Photography unit incharge. After two/three days police
seized two video CDs from their photography unit and obtained his
signature in the seizure list. Ext.23 is the seizure list and Ext.23(1) is

his signature. The seized CD is seen in the court.

PW 38, Joydev Roy has deposed that on 04-04-2018 he
was discharing duty at their photography Unit. On that day in
connection with Batadraba incident, the Post-mortem videography and
the scene of crime creation videography from the memory he prepared
CD and the police seized both the CDs from him and took his signature
in the seizure list. Ext.23 is the seizure list and Ext.23(2) is his

signature. He has seen the seized CD in the court.

PW 39, Mafidul Islam has deposed that incident took place
2/2 '% months ago. At the time of incident he was out of house for his
business and in the evening at 3.30 p.m. when he returned home he
heard that Zakir Hussain the two C.C.Ls committed rape on 'X' and
caused her death by setting fire on her body. Thereafter he visited to
the place of occurrence and on enquiring about the matter from the
sister-in-law of 'X', she also told the same fact. Subsequently he came
to his house and found that all the family members of Zakir ran way
from their house. He further deposed that his house and house of Zakir
have same boundary. After two days, he heard that when Zakir and his

mother were fleeing away, then police caught them on their path.

PW 40, Abdul Hussain has deposed that on 01-04-2018

police came to his house and took away his Tata Sumo vehicie and the

 
=

aa
ai +e

_-(%
does
Mgsam

29

driver i.e, his son Fakaruddin to the Police Station. Police told him that
a case has been instituted and in connection with the case his vehicle
and son were taking by them. Subsequently, he went to the police
station and the police seized the vehicle and obtained his signature in
the seizure list. Ext.24 is the seizure list and Ext.24(1) is his signature.
After a week thereafter he went to the Police station with the relevant
documents of the vehicle and police seized the documents. Ext.25 is

the seizure list and Ext.25(1) is his Signature.

PW 41, Ashan Ullah has deposed that on 01-04-2018 he
went to Batadraba P.S. to meet accused Fakaruddin and at that time
police asked him to put his signature in a paper and accordingly he put
his signature and left the police station. Ext.24 is the Said paper and
Ext.24(2) is his signature.

PW 42, Biswajit Nath has deposed that on 23-03-2018 he
was serving at B.P.Civil Hospital PP. as in-charge. On that day at about
3.45 p.m. Bhaswati Sharma informed him that one female child about
12/13 years of burn injury had brought to the Emergency and called
them to see her. Accordingly he entered the B.P.Civil Hospital P.P. GD.
Entry No.312 dated 23-03-2018 and went to the Emergency Ward with
constable Ananta Bordoloi and found a girl with burn injury and she
was screaming. The name of the girl was 'X' and her accompanied
attendance viz. her mother, father and other family members told
them that the girl was raped and thereafter set fire on her body. The
girl was in unrest condition and screamingly telling that she was raped
and thereafter set fire on her body. Accordingly he transmitted the
information to the Officer-in-Charge of Nagaon(Sadar) Police Station
and the Addl. Supdt. Of Police (HQ) who in turn directed him to issue
requisition for recording the dying declaration of the girl and
accordingly he issued the requisition for recording the dying
declaration to Dr. Bhaswati Sharma and same is received by the doctor.
In the meantime the girl was admitted in Surgical Ill burn unit.
Subsequently, the Supdt. of Police assessed the situation at the

hospital. The dying declaration of the girl was recorded by the indoor

 
30

doctor, Pallabi Hazarika and at 6.30 p.m. he seized the dying
declaration and also recorded the statement of seizure witnesses.
Subsequently on 03-04-2018 he seized the burn data registry chart
from the burn unit but the register was given in zimma of duty nurse
Smti. Minakshi Talukdar. He also recorded the statement of seizure
witnesses. Ext.26 is the General Diary of B.P.Civil Hospital P.P. from 23-
03-2018 to 17-05-2018. Ext.26(1) is the relevant entry of GD.Entry
No.312 dated 23-03-2018. Ext.15 (under objection) is the carbon copy
of requisition for recording the dying declaration. Ext.17 is the dying
declaration seized list and Ext.17(3) is his signature. Ext.19 is seizure
list of the burn data Registry Chart and Ext.19(3) is his signature.

PW 43, Sri Naren Ch. Das has deposed that on 24-03-2018

he was seving as attached officer at Bhangagarh Police Station and on

aN that day at 7 a.m. they received a written information from the
o

nis SUCTe:

G.M.C.H. that a girl namely, 'X' was brought dead in connection with
n the Batadraba P.S., Nagaon and as such inquest is required to perform
over the dead body. Accordingly he entered the Bhangagarh PS.
GD.Entry No.500/18 dated 24-03-2018 and the Officer-in-charge
directed him to conduct inquest over the dead body by a Magistrate. As
per direction of the Officer-in-charge, he arranged for the inquest and
informed Executive Magistrate. After getting the information, the
Magistrate went to the morque of G.M.C.H and inquest was done with a
photo-recording by a photographer from the Nagaon. He recorded the
evidence of witnesses who were present at the time of conducting
inquest and thereafter doctor performed post-mortem examination on
the dead body. The dead-body was handed over to the family members
of the deceased after post-mortem examination was done. On 29-03-
2018, he collected the post-mortem report and on the same day the
post-mortem report, Inquest and SCD were handed over to the Nagaon
Police. Ext.27 is the extract copy of Bhangagarh PS. GD. Entry

No.500/18 dated 24-03-2018.

PW 44, Majibur Rahman has deposed that he knows the

accused Fakaruddin who is his brother-in-law. After 10/15 days of the

 
ocala

. Agsai i)

31

incident of Batadraba, one day police called him to the police station
and at the police station he found Fakaruddin and the vehicle of
Fakaruddin. He came to know from the police that Fakaruddin in his
vehicle sneaked Zakir and Zakir's family to some places and as such
police brought the vehicle of Fakaruddin to the Police Station and

seized the same. Police also arrested accused Fakaruddin.

PW 45, Maheswar Saikia has deposed that on 23-03-2018
he was serving as 2™ Officer at Batadraba PS. On that day in the
evening at about 3 p.m. the Officer-in-charge told him that at Lalung
Gaon, a minor girl was raped and set fire on her body and directed him
to get ready for going there. Then the Officer-in-charge, he and other
police staff moved for the place of occurrence. The house address of
the Lalung gaon was intimated to the O/C by one Fazal Hoque over
telephone. After getting the information, the Officer-in-charge entered
the Batadraba P.S. GD Entry No.432 dated 23-03-2018 and departed to
the place of occurrence. At the place of occurrence, they noticed
gathering of about 400/500 of people and prevailed noisy situation
there. At the place of occurrence, they came to know that the girl was
shifted to B.P.Civil Hospital in a 108 Ambulance by her mother, father
and two local women. They inspected the place of occurrence which is
the house of Sarfat Ali. The house has two rooms, tin roof, wall of
bamboo covered with mud layer and floor is of kacha (soil). In the first
room there was a bed, and a dhari (mat) was laid on the bed. The bed
and dhari(mat) have burn marks and in the floor there was stained with
kerosene. By the side of the bed there was a plastic gallon and a little
half burnt hair and clothes were also found. To the North of the place of
occurrence there lies Lalung gaon's katcha road, towards the south lies
fishery, towards the east there lies fishery and towards the west there
lies the house of brother of the victim, Ali Hussain. Behind the house of
Ali Hussain there lies a fishery. The place of occurrence was
photographed and the sketch map was also drawn. From the place of
occurrence the 1.0. has seized one 20 litres capacity plastic gallon
smell with kerosene, a piece of kerosene-smell half burnt cloth, some
hair, one wooden bed of 6 '% ft. length and 5 ft breadth and one

 
32

bamboo mat (dhari) of size 6 ft. length and 4 ft breadth were seized by
preparing a seizure list and signature of witnesses were taken. Ext.1 is
the seizure list and Ext.1(5) is his signature. He further deposed that
except the bed the other seized items have seen in the court. He has
also recorded the statement of seizure witnesses. He also recorded the
statement of Mursida Begum besides recording the evidence of seizure
witnesses. PW 45 further deposed that after examining the witnesses,
he came to know that accused Zakir Hussain, S/O Abdul Rajak the two
C.C.Ls committed rape on 'X' inside the house and thereafter poured
kerosene oil and set fire on her body and left the place of occurrence.
After committing the offence, while the accused persons sneaked away
behind the house, Murshida noticed them. Thereafter he went to the
house of Zakir Hussain in search of him but Zakir Hussain and his
family members were not found and in the meantime, Addl. S.P., C.l.
and D.S.P spotted there and led them. Then they went to the house of
the two C.C.Ls in search of them and being found them they were
brought along with their guardians to the police station and kept them
in V.D.P room located by the side of the P.S and they were interrogated
and their statements were recorded. During interrogation they
admitted the occurrence of incident. They were kept under security at
Open Shelter Home Gram Bikas Parishad. At 11.30 p.m. of the night,
Md. Sarfat Ali lodged ejahar and accordingly Batadraba P.S. GD. Entry
No.447 dated 23-03-2018 was entered and registered a Batadraba P.S.
Case No.64/2018 u/s 448/376(D)/201/302 IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act.
After registering the case the Investigating Officer entrusted him to
investigate the case. Ext.8 is the ejahar and Ext.8(2) is the signature of
Officer-in-charge, Sri Rajib Barua's and he is acquainted with his
Signature. He recorded the statement of informant Sarafat Ali.

On 24-03-2018 the two C.C.Ls were brought to the
Batadraba P.S. from the Gram Bikas Parishad and on_ interrogation,
they admitted that the pants which they were wearing were the same
pants that they wore on the date of incident as such their pants were
seized. Ext.6 is the seizure list, Ext.6(3) is his signature, Ext.7 is the
another seizure list and Ext.7(1) is his signature. The seized two pants

were seen in the court. He also recorded the statements of the seizure

 
an cool

habe.

. ASSe"

33

witnesses and thereafter the two C.C.Ls were brought to Batadraba
M.P.H.C for medical examination and after medical examination they
were produced before the Juvenile Justice Board. On 24-03-2018 at
about 8.30 p.m., he got information that Zakir Hussain have been
taking shelter in his  brother-in-law's house, Abdul Rashid at
Dhaniabheti. After getting such information they went to the house of
Abdul Rasid and met him and Abdul Rashid was brought to the Police

Station for interrogation. After interrogation Abdul Rashid was arrested.

On 25-03-2018 they took Abdul Rashid and visited the
houses of his relatives and enquiry presence of Zakir but Zakir could
not be traced out. Abdul Rashid was forwarded to the Court. On the
same day, in the evening at 5 p.m. by a telephonic call from the Sadar
Police Station informed that Zakir was arrested by traffic police and
brought to the Sadar Police Station. On receipt of information, he along
with the Officer-in-charge and other staff came to Sadar Police Station
and at the Police station he recorded the statement of the traffic police
personnel who have apprehended Zakir. Thereafter the traffic police
interrogated the accused Zakir and Zakir's mother. The mother of
Zakir, Jubeda Khatun was arrested for allegation of helping Zakir to flee
away. After arrest Zakir and Zakir's mother were kept at Nagaon Sadar

Police Station.

On 26-03-2018, Zakir and his mother were produced at

Nagaon Court and Zakir was taken 5 days police custody.

On 27-03-2018, at 9 a.m. Addl. S.P.(HQ), D.S.P, S.I. Pankaj
Mahanta, WPC visited the Lalung gaon and from Lalung gaon L.P.
School, they collected the school certificate of 'X', and the two C.C.Ls
and were seized. Ext.4 is the seizure list, Ext.4(4) is his signature. He
also recorded the statements of seizure witnesses. On the same day,
from the school he seized class IV and Class V attendance register,
Admission Register, Zakir Hussain's School certificate. Ext.9 is the sald
seizure list. Ext.9(3) is his signature and seized items were seen in the

court. On the same day, he recorded the statement of three girl

 
34

student of the said school infront of the two teacher. From the school
they visited the place of occurrence and seized about 1 kg of soil from
the place of occurrence. Ext.2 is the seizure list and Ext.2(3) is his
Signature.

On 28-03-2018 at the place of occurrence, he recorded
the statements of Helima Begum, Mukshed Ali, Wahida Begum, Mursida
Begum, Sarfat Ali, Raimon Nessa, Sanjita Khatun and they were
forwarded before the Court for recording their evidences u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
On the same day, photographer, Basudev Roy was called from the
Nagaon Sadar Police Station, Supdt. of police office and videography
was done while recording the statement of Zakir Hussain. On that day,
Zakir divulged that he would narrate how he did the incident and also
show the lungi which he was wearing at the time of incident, as such
they proceeded to the place of occurrence along with Zakir and they
were accompanied by two Magistrates and a photographer. At the
place of occurrence, Zakir elaborately narrated how he did the offence
and his videography was done. He drew the sketch map. Ext.11 is the
sketch map, Ext.11(3) is his signature. From the place of occurrence as
shown by Zakir they went to the house of Zakir and as pointed by Zakir
a lungi was seized which was spread over a cycle. Ext.5 is the seizure

list, Ext.5(5) is his signature.

On 28-03-2018, the brother of Zakir, Muklesur Rahman
appeared before the Addl. Suptd. of Police but the Addl. Supdt. of Police
directed to take Muklesur Rahman to the Sadar Police Station for
interrogation. After recording his statement, Muklesur was arrested for

the allegation of extending support to flee away Zakir.

On 27-03-2018, he sent one gallon of 20 Its. Capacity,
some kerosene-smell half burn cloths, some hair, 1 kg. Soil to FSL for

examination.

On 29-03-2018, he sent one lungi, one long pant, one half-

pant to FSL for examination.

 
° 4 3.
e paca ) nasail

35

On 29-03-2018, the father of Zakir, Abdul Rejak was
interrogated at Nagaon Police Station and was found involved with the

incident and as such he was arrested.

On 30-03-2018 he received pin report of Bhangagarh PS.
GD.Entry No.500 dated 24-03-2018 along with SCD and same was

appended with the original case diary.

On 01-04-2018 he seized the Tata Sumo bearing No.AS-
02C-4363 by which Zakir was helped to ran away and on finding
materials that Fakaruddin was involved with the incident he was

interrogated. Ext.24 is the seizure list. Ext.24(3) is his signature.

On 02-04-2018 the said seized vehicle Tata Sumo was

seen at the Nagaon Court.

On 03-04-2018, the Supdt. of Police released him from the
investigation and re-endorsed the remaining part of investigation to
Traffic-in-Charge, S.l. Dhiren Kakati and as such he handed over the

Case diary to the Officer-in-charge.

Ext.28 is the Batadraba P.S. General Diary book. Ext.28(1)
is the GD Entry No.432 dated 23-03-2018, Ext.28(2) GD Entry No.447
dated 23-03-2018, Ext.28(3) GD Entry No.67 dated 04-04-2018 of the
relevant entry.

Ext.29, is the sketch map of the place of occurrence which
he drew on 23-03-2018 and Ext.29(1) is his signature.

PW 46, Dhiren Kakati has deposed that on 25-03-2018 he
was serving as in-charge of Nagaon Sadar Traffic Branch. On that day,
in the evening at about 6 p.m., ASI Habibur Rahman informed him that
the prime accused of Batadraba P.S. Case No.64/18 Zakir Hussain is
trying to flee away and has been taking shelter in the house of Abdul
Malek of Laugaon and also let him know that he had information that

 
Pg -( v3

A e,
anecid ween
“anon

36

accused would come through the previous Gausala road. At once, he
along with ASI Habibur Rahman and other staff went to Gausala and
waited there to apprehend Zakir. At that moment, ASI Habibur Rahman
got information in his mobile phone that accused has been proceeding
through the road from Laugaon to Teliagaon. Immediately, they turn
their vehicle through the road of Teliapatty and have been proceeding
by the road of Teliagaon. While they were proceeding through the road
of Teliagaon they found a concrete bridge and at that time from the
field side one boy in black shirt was climbing up to the elevated side
along with a woman. Watching the boy, Habibur Rahman addressed
Zakir in miya language and he stopped. Then Habibur Rahman caught
hold of Zakir. The woman prevented them to bring Zakir but they
forcefully lifted the Zakir in the vehicle and the woman was also lifted
in the vehicle and both of them were brought to the Nagaon Police
Station. On interrogated, Zakir admitted they he had pre-planed to run
away to Kerela and his father and brother were at Chaparmukh Railway
station and they made all arrangement to send him to Kerela. At night
the Investigating Officer recorded his statement and the statement of

Habibur Rahman at the Police Station.

On 31-03-2018, the Supdt. of Police entrusted him to
investigate the Batadraba P.S. Case No.64/18. On 03-04-2018, he went
to the Batadraba P.S. for taking charge of the case. The Officer-in-
charge of the P.S. vide GD. Entry No.67/18 dated 04-04-2018 handed

over the case diary to him.

After taking charge of investigation, he has gone through
the case diary and came to know that the post-mortem of video Disc
and displaying of crime scene by accused Zakir Hussain had been
videographed and as such he went to the Supdt. of Police Office and
from the police photographer both the CDs were seized and recorded
their statements. Ext.23 is the seizure list. Ext.23(3) is his signature.
He has seen the Dying Declaration, Burn register, Seizure list,
Zimmanama, Seizure list of two video Disc before the Court and made

a prayer for adding Section 6 of the POCSO Act. After allowing the

 
ca

2

sock S¥89%

Aa
On

fo

9
.. pgsam

37

permission by the Court on 06-04-2018 he again spotted Batadraba PS.
and met Dr. Kapil Pator at Batadraba M.PH.C and collected medical
report of juvenile of the CCL and recorded the statement of the doctor.
He came back to the PS and recorded the statement of victim's

mother. He also recorded the statement of Fazal Hoque.

On 12-04-2018 he recorded the statement of the ejahar
writer Sri Safiqul Islam S/O Barik Ahmed at the Nagaon Sadar Police

Station. He also recorded the statments of Abdul Jalil and Mofijul Islam.

On 13-04-2018, he recorded the statement of Mojibur
Rahman and on the same day, he received two FSL report through the

officer-in-charge of Batadraba PS.

On 19-04-2018 he submitted a prayer before the J.J.B,
Principal Magistrate, Nagaon for conducting potency test of the two
C.C.Ls. On 20-04-2018 their potency test were conducted at Nagaon

Civil Hospital.

On 23-03-2018 he seized the documents of Tata Sumo
from Abdul Hussain and recorded the statements of Ataur Rahman and
Abdul Hussain as seizure witnesses. Ext.25 is the seizure list and

Ext.25(2) is his signature.

On 27-03-2018 he collected the potency test report. After
completion of investigation, he submitted charge-sheet against
accused Zakir Hussain and two of the CCLs u/s 448/376(D)/201/302 IPC
R/W Sec.6 of POCSO Act and against accused Abdul Rajek, Jubeda
Khatun, Abdul Rashid, Muklesur Rahman and Fakaruddin u/s 120-
B/212/201 IPC. Ext.30 is the charge-sheet and Ext.30(1) is his

Signature.

8. Gist of Defence Evidence.
DW 1 (Rahena Khatun) and DW 2 (Mainara Khatun) were

the listed prosecution witnesses whom the prosecution has not

 

 
Fg.
spot “

A

a Me ry

38

examined and in their evidences they have reproduced their statement
before the 1.0. u/s 161 Cr.P.C.

DW 1 Rahena Khatun, deposed that she stated before
police that she is the student of Lalung Gaon L.P. School of V(fifth)
standard. 'X' had read with them. She is dead now. One day police
visited to their school and put some questions to her. Then she stated
to police that 'X' told her that one CCL love her(X) and she also love the
CCL. The matter was of one year old. In the classroom both of them sit
near to each other and chat themselves. In the path also they chat
themselves. Another CCL reads in their school in class IV(four). While
Sir and Madam were not in the classroom, the another CCL came there
and quarrelled with 'X' and sometimes beat her also. Another CCL iS
the son of 'X' father's elder brother. Sometimes, while taking meal at
school, another CCL put salt in the meal plate of 'X'. DW 1 further
deposed that she does not know why they quarrel.

DW 2, Mainara Khatun has deposed that she stated before
police that she reads at Lalung gaon L.P. School in class V(five). 'X' was
her friend and read with her in the same class. 'X' passed away. After
the death of 'X', police visited in their school and put her some
questions. She told police that about a year ago, 'X' divulged her that
one CCL love 'X' and 'X' also love the CCL. In the classroom both of
them sit near to each other and chat themselves. Another CCL is the
son of 'X' 's uncle (Bordeuta) who read in their school in class IV(four).
Sometimes another CCL came to their classroom and quarrelled with
‘X' and sometimes even assaulted her also for which 'X' used to cry.
She further deposed that she does not know why they quarrelled.
Sometimes, another CCL put salt in the plate of 'X' at the time of

taking meal in the school. One CCL and 'X' sometimes chat on road.

DW 3, Abdul Rezzak has deposed that prior to two days of
the occurrence he had been staying at Barpeta under the Rupahihat
Police Station. Then people told him that in the Television a big incident

of his house was shown. Subsequently his elder son informed him over

 
FF a

pm on “ia
. ot

.

_\%

*
o®

assem

39

phone about the said incident and also told him that in the said
incident Zakir was made guilty. Thereafter his elder son by engaging
his fellow men negotiated with the police to hand over Zakir.
Subsequently he and his wife, Jubeda accompanied his son Zakir and
handed over Zakir to the police near a bridge. Police lifted Zakir in a
vehicle and when police tried to lift the mother of the Zakir in the
vehicle he objected but police focefully lifted her and took away the
mother of Zakir along with Zakir. Thereafter he again came back to
Barpeta. Police apprehended his elder son Muklesur and brought to
Sadar Police Station and when he came to the Police Station for getting
information about his son, police arrested him also. Subsequently,
when he was bailed out, he came to know from the witnesses Mokshed
Ali, Wahida Begum and the village people that the witnesses at first
looking fire on the body of the girl doused fire by pouring water and the
girl was not in a condition to speak. The girl was taken to a doctor and
subsequently she died. He further deposed that he has cultivable land
at Lalung gaon under Batadraba Mouza bearing patta No.82. In the said
patta land of Fazal Hoque, Mofidul Islam and Rafiqul Islam are also
there. They have land dispute in respect of said patta with the above
three persons and as such they have proprogated rumour that Zakir
did the said incident. Ext.E is the Jamabandi of patta No. 82.(under

objection).

9, Discussion of evidence, decision thereon and

reason for decision:

First, let us appreciate evidence in respect of charges
against accused Zakir Hussain. From the evidence of Pws it appears
that Murshida Begum (PW 2) was present in her house adjacent to the
place of occurrence when the occurrence took place. According to this
PW, she was sleeping in her house with her baby, then hearing scream
from the house of her father-in-law she came out from her house and
saw that accused Zakir Hussain and the two C.C.Ls were coming out
from the house of her father-in-law. Entering into the house she saw

that fire has caught on the body of 'X' (the deceased). She raised hue
*6 14

A
AK sudd®:
SH on =. ARS

an

40

and cry then the neighbouring people came and put out the fire.
Thereafter her father-in-law, mother-in-law and sister-in-law came and
when her father-in-law asked 'X' what happened then she told that
accused Zakir Hussain and two of the CCLs raped her and thereafter
Zakir asked one CCL to bring kerosene from the next room and then
one CCL brought and poured kerosene and Zakir put fire on her and
Zakir has cut her private part by a knife.

PW 1, PW 25 , PW 26 are the father-in-law, mother-in-law
and sister-in-law of PW 2 (Murshida Begum) and father, mother and
sister of the deceased. All these Pws have stated the same fact as told
by PW 2. According to PW 14 (Halima Khatun) at the time of occurrence
she was in her house then hearing hue and cry from the western side
of her house she went to the house of Sarfat and saw 'X' lying on the
ground and her body was been burnt and fire has been extinguished.
She and Murshida (PW 2) shifted her to the bed.

In order to prove charge against the accused Zakir
Hussain prosecution has relied on the dying declaration of the
deceased coupled with evidence of PW 2 (Murshida Begum) and other

corroborative evidence.

Now from the evidence of PW 15 (Mokshed Ali) and PW 16
(Wahida Begum) it appears that hearing hue and cry from the house of
Sarfat Ali they went there and extinguished the fire which caught on
the body of 'X'. It further appears that according to PW 15 and PW 16
after extinguishing the fire they went away. It is evident that PW 14
(Halima Khatun) arrived at the place of occurrence after extingushing
of fire by PW 15 and PW 16. PW 1, PW 25 and PW 26 arrived at the

place of occurrence after extinguishing of fire.

It is evident from the evidence of above mentioned Pws
that the 'X' sustained burn injury in her whole body and she was

immediately broguht to B.P. Civil Hospital, Nagaon by an ambulance.
41

PW 31 Dr. Bhaswati Sharma is the Medical & Health
Officer-| of B. P. Civil Hospital Nagaon. According to her on 23-03-2018
at about 3.30 p.m. one girl sustaining burn injury was brought to the
hospital and she after making arrangment of the treatment, admitted
her to the burn unit and inform police of B.P.Civil Hospital patrol post.
After sometime police sent one requisition for recording the dying
declaration of the victim and she informed Dr. Pallabi Hazarika who was

on indoor duty to record the statement.

PW 27 Dr. Pallabi Hazarika recorded the dying declaration
of 'X' (the deceased). According to her after receiving information from
Dr. Bhaswati Sharma (PW 31) and also receiving police requisiton she
went to the burn unit and found that whole body of the girl was burn.
Two nurses were attending her. Two/three women were there and when
she enquired about the guardian of the girl then PW 25 identified the
girl as her daughter. Then she (PW 27) asked all other persons to go
away from the room and thereafter she recorded the dying declaration
of the victim in presence of two staff nurse. According to PW 27 the
girl was conscious. On being asked, the girl told her name and name of
her father. Thereafter she recorded her dying declaration. Ext.16 is the

dying declaration.

PW 29 (Anjumoni Deka) and PW 30 (Bhabani Das) are the
staff nurse. According to these Pws Dr. Pallabi Hazarika recorded the
dying declaration of the girl in their presence. Ext.16(2) and Ext.16(3)

are their signatures respectively in Ext.16.

PW 42 (Biswajit Nath) is the in-charge of B.P.Civil Hospital
PP, Nagaon. According to him on 23-03-2018 at about 3.45 p.m.
Bhaswati Sharma who was on emergency duty inform him that one girl
who sustained burn injury has been admitted in the hospital.
Accordingly he immediately after making GD Entry No.312 dated 23-
03-2018 proceeded to emergency ward and saw one girl with burn
injury and she was screaming. Her mother, father and members of his

family told that she has been raped and was set ablazed. Then he

 

 
a me

Nw 89?"
spss

42

intimated O/C Nagaon P.S. and Addl. S.P. (HQ) about the incident who
advised him to issue requisition for recording dying declaration,
accordingly he issued requisition to Dr. Bhaswati Sharma. Dr. Pallavi
Hazarika recorded the dying declaration and he seized the dying
declaration at 6.30 p.m. According to this PW on 03-04-2018 he seized
the burn data register chart from the burn unit. Ext.26 is the General
diary of B.P.Civil Hospital PP. from 23-03-2018 to 17-05-2018 and
Ext.26(1) is the relevant entry in respect of GD. Entry No.312 dated 23-
03-2018.

PW 33 constable Ananta Bordoloi of B.P. Civil Hospital P.P.
deposed in the tune of PW 42. PW 33 is also the seizure witness of
burn data register. PW 32 (Minakshi Talukdar) is the staff nurse of
B.P.Civil Hospital. According to her on 03-04-2018 police seized burn
data register from the surgical ward and obtained her signature in the
seizure list. From her evidence it is evident that the girl was referred

to Gauhati Medical College Hospital where she was declared dead.

10. Learned Special PP. has submitted that the dying
declaration (Ext.16) as recorded by PW 27 (Dr. Pallabi Hazarika) can be
relied into as the doctor has certified that the victim can speak and
mentally sound. Pointing towards some aspects as brought out by
defence in course of cross-examination of PW 27 like recording of dying
declaration in question answer form, requirement of presence of
Magistrate at the time of recording dying declaration, learned Special
P.P. has submitted that these aspects are not at all vital for doubting
the dying declaration (Ext.16) in this case. In support of his contention,
he has placed reliance on these citations :- (1) Ramawati Devi Vs.
State of Bihar (1983 Cri.L.J.221), (2) State of M.P. Vs. Dal Singh
& ors (Criminal Appeal No.2303/09) decided by Supreme Court
on 21-05-2013, (3) Mafabhai Nagarbhai Raval Vs. State of
Gujurat (AIR 1992 SC 2186) (4) Vijay Paul Vs. State (GNCT) of
Delhi (2015 Crl. L.J.2041), (5) Suresh Purushottam Vs. State of
Chattisgarh (2017 Cri.L.J. 91), (6) State of Karnataka - Vs. -
Shariff (Supreme Court decided on 27-01-2003), (7) Ram Bihari

 
SF a

naan

aa

AS

doe, 5
psa

43

Yadav - Vs.- State of Bihar and ors. (Supreme Court decided on
21-04-98).

11. Learned defence counsel refuting the contentions of
prosecution side has argued that the Ext.16 (Dying declaration) cannot
be relied into and attacked the dying declaration on the these points :-
(1). The victim sustained 96% burn injury and she was under shock
and pain as such it will not be possible on her part to make such
declaration. (2). PW 27 (Dr. Pallabi Hazarika) has recorded the dying
declaration in Assamese language whereas PW 25_ in her cross-
examination has stated that she and her daughter (deceased) can
neither speak Assamese language nor they understand Assamese
language, (3). the dying declaration was not recorded in presence of
any Magistrate (4). Dying declaration does not bear any signature or
thumb impression of the deceased and note of the doctor in Ext.16 that
her finger-print could not be taken as the finger was distorted due to
burn is not believable as the said fact has not been proved, (5). No
question was put by PW 27 to the victim so to ascertain her memory or
to satisfy herself (PW 27) regarding the mental fitness of the victim, (6)
In the police requisition seriousness of the victim was not mentioned.
In addition to above points learned defence counsel has also submitted
that the dying declaration was recorded on 23-03-2018 on police
requisition and PW 42 (Biswajit Nath) seized the Ext.16 on 23-03-2018
but PW 46(S.I. Dhiren Kakoti), the 1.0. of the case, forwarded the same
to the court for seen on 04-04-2018. While seizure list dated 27-03-
2018 was sent to court on the same day, seizure list dated 28-03-2018
and 29-03-2018 was sent to court on 29-03-2018. Again seizure list
dated 01-04-2018 and 02-04-2018 was sent to court on 04-04-2018.
Thus failure on the part of the 1.0. to explain the delay in sending the
seizure list dated 23-03-2018 cast doubt regarding recording of Ext.16
(Dying declaration) on 23-03-2018. Again Ext.1 vide seizure list dated
23-03-2018 has been numbered as MR. No.16/2018. Ext.16 vide
seizure list dated 23-03-2018 has been numbered as MR 28/2018 and
burn data register (Ext.20) seized vide seizure list dated 03-04-2018

has been marked as MR 29/18. Learned defence counsel has submitted

 

 

 
‘
ee ntl

4
a\ S968

44

that these aspects are sufficient to prove that dying declaration
(Ext.16) was not recorded on 23-03-2018 rather it was subsequently
manufactured by the investigating agency with the conspiracy of

medical staff.

Learned counsel has further argued that recording of
dying declaration was not entered in the burn data register. It is also
the argument of defence counsel that there is no entry in the GD Entry
book that higher authority has advised PW 42 to send requisition for
recording dying declaration. It is argued that in GD. Entry No.438 dated
23-03-2018 of Batadrava PS. last few lines were subsequently inserted
to cover up the story of recording dying declaration. It is also the
argument of defence counsel that there is doubt regarding GD. Entry
No.312 dated 23-03-2018 as it is started from 23-03-2018. Learned
Counsel also argued that as per PW 33 Ananta Bordoloi, constable of
B.P.Civil Hospital PP, the condition of the victim was bad and she was
not in a position to speak and as such it is impossible to record her
statement in such condition and this statement of this PW cast doubt

about Ext.16 (Dying Declaration).

Learned counsel argued that there is nothing to show that
the victim was under expectation of death so to nececiate recording of

her dying declaration.

Learned defence counsel relied on these citations on the
point of dying declaration :- (1). Smt. Laxmi, Appellant v. Om
Prakash and others, Respondents, (2001 CRI. L.J. 3302)
Supreme Court, (2) Ramilaben Hasmukhbhai Khristi and
another, Appellants v. State of Gujarat, Respondent with
Suleman Yakubbhai Khristi Parmar and another, Appellants v.
State of Gujarat, Respondent with Dahyabhai Ashabhai Khristi
Parmar and others, Appellants v. State of Gujarat, Respondent
(AIR 2002 Supreme Court 2996), (3) Rasheed Beg and others -
Appellants Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh - Respondents
( (1974) 4 Supreme Court Cases 264, (4) Mohar Singh and

 

 
4

S soatth bs an
ogo

45

others etc., Appellants vs. State of Punjab, Respondent (1981
CRI.L.J.998), (5) Kake Singh @ Surendra Singh, Appellant v.
State of Madhya Pradesh, Respondent (1982 CRI. L.J.986) and
(6) Darshan Singh and others, Appellants v. State of Punjab,
Respondent and Joga Singh and others, Appellants v. State of
Punjab, Respondent (1983 CRI.L.J.985 = Air 1983 Supreme
Court 554).

12. | have gone thorugh the citations so referred by both

parties.

Now, let us scruitinize the dying declaration (Ext.16)
carefully so to ascertain whether it can be relied upon or not. From
Ext.16, it is evident that the doctor (PW 27) who recorded it, gave
certificate that the victim is capable of speaking and mentally sound.
PW 27 in Ext.16 has noted that the victim was more than 90% burn,
her finger print could not be taken as it was distorted due to burn. PW
29 (Anjumoni Deka) and PW 30 (Bhabani Das), these two attending
nurses were present at the time of recording of dying declaration
(Ext.16) and they put their signature therein as Ext.16(2) and
Ext.16(3). Now defence has cross-examined these PW 27, PW 29, PW
30 and apart from putting certain suggestions which these Pws have
denied, could not extract anything from their mouth so to establish the
fact that the Ext.16 was not recorded on 23-03-2018. Nothing has been
brought on record to show why these three Pws who are independent
witness will tell a lie. Defence in course of cross-examination of
material witnesses who saw the victim at the place of occurrence could
not establish the fact that the victim was unconscious. It is the
argument of defence side that PW 27 in her cross-examination has
stated that at the time of recording of dying declaration she did not
check the pulse, pressure of the victim and she has also stated that the
victim was then under shock and pain. Now when the doctor has
certified that the victim was mentally sound as such only for non-
checking of pulse and pressure, dying declaration cannot be discarded.

In this regard prosecution has rightly relied on the decision of Hon'ble

 
46

Supreme Court in - State of M.P. - Vs- Dal Singh & ors and in
the case of Mufabhai Nagarbhai Raval - Vs- State of Gujarat
(AIR 1992 SC 2186).

In the case of Suresh - Vs. State of M.P. (AIR 1987 SC
860) also wherein the victim sustained cent percent burn injuries, the
doctor's testimony that the deceased was in a fit state of health, was

accepted by Hon'ble Supreme Court.

In the case of State of Haryana - Vs.- Harpal Singh
and ors. (AIR 1978 SC 1530) in para 18, Hon'ble Supreme Court

observed as follows : “18. The High Court was of the view that

—-< 2 a person in the state of health as depicted in the Bed Head
Z uN
uy sud9e _ Ticket could not have possibly made a coherent and detailed
manera Seo . .

De Any ps® statement as contained in Ex.P.L. We are unable to share the

view of the High Court. The doctor was fully aware of the
condition and certified that the patient was in a fit condition to
give a dying declaration and has deposed that she was
conscious and was in a fit condition to give the dying
declaration. The fact that the pulse was not palpable and blood
pressure un-recordable and the patient was in a gasping
condition would not necessarily show that the patient's
condition was such that no dying declaration could be
recorded. We see no reason for rejecting the testimony of the

doctor”.

Ls. Now argument of defence side that statement of PW 33
(Ananta Bordoloi) cast doubt about Ext.16 (Dying declaration) is not
acceptable because PW 27 (Dr. Pallabi Hazarika) has examined the
victim and as such she is the competent person to ascertain her
mental fitness and not the constable. Thus his statement that victim
was unable to speak is not at all significant to discard the evidence of
PW 27 and Ext.16 (Dying declaration).

 

 
¢

we

—

~{)
y\.

\o

Vo

qgon

we

aA~
sud

®

\2

ASS

ge:

ai

47

So far as language of dying declaration is concerned, the
defence has not put any question to PW 12 (Kabita Biswas) and PW 13
(Md. Ataur Rahman) who are the teachers of the Lalung gaon New L.P.
School so to ascertain whether the deceased was able to speak and
understand Assamese. PW 10 (Trishnapriya Buragohain) who is also
one of the teacher of the said Lalung Gaon New L.P. School stated in
her cross-examination that since she is new in the said school, she
does not understand the language of the students but this PW nowhere
in her evidence has stated that the deceased did not understand
Assamese. Defence has failed to elucidate from these Pws about the
medium of school. It is natural that deceased may had communicated
with her family members in their own language at their house but it
does not prove that the deceased did not know the Assamese. The
defence through the PW 25, (Raiman Nessa) tried to extract that the
deceased did not know the Assamese but failed to show that she
completely did not understand the Assamese. PW 27 (Dr. Pallavi
Hazarika) has clearly stated that she put the questions in Assamese
language while the deceased replied the same in broken Assamese
language and she recorded the Ext.16 (dying declaration) as per her
version in Assamese language. In my opinion communication is the
main thing as such although the declarant has narrated the incident in
broken Assamese as stated by PW 27 and she has recorded the same
in fine Assamese language, this aspect will not affect the probative
value of Ext.16. In this regard, | would like to refer the case of
Bakshish Singh - Vs- State of Punjab (1957 AIR 904 equivalent
citation 1958 SCR 409) wherein the deceased spoke in Punjabi
language and the statement was recorded in Urdu language but its
authenticity was accepted by Hon'ble Supreme Court. Thus, contention

as raised by learned defence counsel is not tenable.

Now let us come to the point of tutoring. Defence failed
to show that the relatives of the deceased were aware of the fact that
dying declaration is going to be recorded at hospital. From the
evidence of related Pws of the deceased, it appears that after the

unexpected incident of occurrence they shifted the deceased

 

 

 
_(3

special weg

t \ 4c20n

ey
w» pga

48

immediately to hospital with the intention of providing treatment and
in such situation they were not aware of legal procedural aspect so to
tutor the victim. Moreover nothing can be elucidated from PW 42 (SI.
Biswajit Nath) during cross-examination which can establish the fact
that he told the Pws who were present at B.P.Civil Hospital that dying
decaration is going to be recorded, so advised them to tutor the victim.
Now, mere writing of “Accompanied by police” in Ext.16 by PW 27 is
not the conclusive proof that PW 42 was present in burn unit at the
time of recording the statement so to tutor the victim. Moreover, from
the evidence of PW 27 (Dr. Pallabi Hazarika), it appears that at the
burn unit before recording the Ext.16 she sent out all the persons from
the burn unit including PW 25, the mother of the victim who identified
the girl and thereafter in presence of two nurses, she recorded the
dying declaration. Now defence has extensively cross-examined PW 27,
PW 29 and PW 30 but except putting suggestions to them that Ext.16
was not recorded on 23-03-2018, defence could not extract anything
from their mouth which can create suspicion regarding recording of
dying declaration. Some trivial discrepencies in the statements of PW

29 and PW 30 are not sufficient to cause dent in their testimony.

Defence has tried to put the Ext.16 under cloud of
suspicion on other aspects like -

(1) Dying declaration which was recorded on 23-03-2018
and was seized by PW 42 (SI Biswajit Nath) of B.P.Civil Hospital O.P. on
the same day but the 1.0. of the case PW 45 (SI Maheswar Saikia) did
not send the said seizure list to the court without delay rather the
second |.0. PW 46 (SI Dhiren Kakoty) sent the same to the court on 04-
04-2018. Now from the evidence of PW 45 and PW 46 it is evident that
PW 45 was the first 1.0. up to 03-04-2018 and on 04-04-2018 the
second 1.0. (PW 45) was entrusted with the task of investigation. PW 45
has stated that S.l. Biswajit Nath (PW 42) has handed over the SCD
along with Dying declaration, seizure list and burn register to Officer-in-
charge Batadrava P.S. on 03-04-2018. PW 45 has stated that he has not
taken step for obtaining the dying declaration from S.I. Biswajit Nath

and he cannot furnish any explanation. Now it is evident from the

 

 

 
anno
u-
enecial
RON

¢ it
Lag
N ad a

q sage
ripssam

49

evidence of PW 46 (SI Dhiren Kakoty), the second 1.0. of this case that
on 04-04-2018 he received the dying declaration, seizure list of burn
data register and dying declaration, zimanama from Officer-in-charge
of Batadraba P.S. and sent the same to court for seen. Now there is no
doubt laches on the part of the first 1.0. (PW 45) in collecting the dying
declaration alongwith its seizure list from PW 42 and to send the same
to the court within reasonable time but due to such laches on the part
of the first 1.0. (PW 45) neither the evidence of PW 27 can be
discredited nor the prosecution case can be thrown away on that
ground when the defence has failed to shatter the evidence of PW 27.

(2) - Other doubt of defence side regarding Ext.16 is that
GD. Entry No.438 dated 23-03-2018 of Batadraba P.S. was made at 6
p.m. and in the last few lines of that entry there is no gap and certain
lines written in separate ink seems to be inserted later on.

(3) -There is another doubt as expressed by learned
defence counsel is in respect of GD. Entry No.312 dated 23-03-2018 of
B.P.Civil Hospital P.P. (Ext.26). It is contended that said GD. Entry book
is started from 23-03-2018. It is argued by learned defence counsel
that in order to cover the story of recording dying declaration, this GD.
Entry book has been started from 23-03-2018 by damaging last pages
of earlier GD. Entry book and one GD. Entry is made just before GD.
Entry No.312 dated 23-03-2018 to give it a natural look

Now it is already stated hereinabove that defence has
failed to shatter the evidence of PW 27, PW 29 and PW 30 as such the
grounds of doubt as contended by learned defence counsel is based on
conjecture and surmise and _ in view of this evidence of PW 27, PW 29

and PW 30 can neither be disbelived nor Ext.16 can be discarded.

Now, so far as question of recording of dying declaration
before the Magistrate is concerned, Section 32 of the Indian Evidence
Act, 1872 nowhere states that it must be recorded in presence of a
Magistrate. In this regard observation of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Kulwant Singh -Vs- State of Punjab (AIR 2004 SC 2874) is

quoted below:-

 
50

“Section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872
nowhere states that the dying declaration must be recorded in
the presence of a Magistrate or in other words no statement
which has not been recorded before the Magistrate cannot be
treated to be a dying declaration. The fact that the
investigating officer from the beginning intended to take the
statement of Partap Singh is not in dispute. The endorsement
made by the doctor in Ext.PQ/1 and Ext.PR/1 would clearly
show that he had not been found fit to make such statement.
Only on the fifth day i.e. 18-06-1987, the statement of Partap

Singh could be recorded”.

Section 32 of the Indian Evidence also does not state that

the dying declaration should be made only in expectation of death.

ee Explanation (1) appended to Section 32 makes it clear. In the 2 para
special gan of Explanation (1) it is clearly written as follows:-

“Such statement are relevant whether the person who
made them was or was not, at the time when they were made
under expectation of death, and whatever may be nature of the

proceeding in which the cause of his death comes into question.''

In view of above provision of law contention as raised by

learned defence counsel is not tenable.

Argument of learned defence counsel is that PW 27 (Dr.
Pallabi Hazarika) did not put any question to the victim to satisfy
herself about her mental fitness before recording the dying declaration.
Now there is no specified form or format for recording dying
declaration. Doctor is the competent person to assess the mental
fitness of the victim. PW 27 in her deposition has stated that the victim
was conscious and she then asked the girl to tell her name and her

father's, accordingly the girl stated so and thereafter she recorded her

 
ED

(-

ol

statement. In view of this evidence, | do not find any reason to discard
the evidence of PW 27 and also Ext.16.

In the instant case, there is no evidence on record to
establish that the victim was unconscious and she was unable to give
her statement. There is also no evidence that the victim was tutored
before recording her statement. Considering all aspect | have arrived
at the conclusion that the dying declaration (Ext.16) is made by the
victim voluntarily and truthfully and free from tutoring and prompting

and as such reliance can be place upon it safely.

Ext.16 reveals that it relates to the death of the
deceased-declarant and the circumstances resulted in her death. The

declarant has also brought allegation of rape with her against Zakir

4

3
“\
a Judges Hussain and two C.C.Ls. In this context, | would like to refer the
0! vy vs gsc"! . . . .
at on: BN illustrations (a) appended to Section 32 of the Evidence Act
below:-

“(a) The question is, whether A was murdered by B;
or

A dies of injuries received in a transaction in the
course of which she was ravished. The question is, whether she
was ravished by B; or

The question is, whether A was killed by B under
such circumstances that a suit would lie against B by A's
widow.

Statements made by A as to the cause of his or her
death, referring respectively to the murder, the rape and the

actionable wrong under consideration are relevant facts”.

Thus as per illustation (a) to Section 32 of the Indian
Evidence Act, the statement made by the deceased in Ext.16 in the

instant case is relevant fact and can be relied into.

Signature of relatives in dying declaration.

 

 
52

From the evidence of PW 27 (Dr. Pallabi Hazarika) it
appears that she after taking the identity of the guardian of the
deceased, turned out all the relatives including the PW 25
(Raimannessa) from the burn unit of the hospital and then PW 27
recorded the dying declaration of the victim in presence of PW 29
(Anjumoni Deka) and PW 30 (Bhabani Das), who were the nurses on
duty at that time. PW 29 and PW 30 also stated that they were in the
burn unit at the time when the PW 27 recorded the dying declaration
(Ext.16). PW 29 and PW 30 testified their signatures in Ext.16 as
Ext.16(2) and 16(3) respectively. PW 29 and PW 30 do not know the
victim personally nor had witnessed the incident. Thus it appears that

the two official witnesses present at the time of recording the dying

—— AB declaration were the independent witnesses and their quality of
cet jue nega evidence cannot be doubted at all as the victim was opportunistically
yas? admitted at that time when PW 29 and PW 30 were discharging their

duty. That apart there is no prescribed law that the presence of relative

is required at the time of recording the dying declaration of deceased.

Signature or thumb impression of the deceased

PW 27 (Dr. Pallabi Hazarika) has recorded the dying
declaration of the deceased. In the dying declaration (Ext.16) the PW
27 at the last part, above her signature has clearly written that the
victim was more than 90% burn, her finger print could not be taken as
it was distorted due to burn. PW 28 (Dr. Netramoni Kakoti) did the post-
mortem(Ext.18) examination of the deceased at the Gauhati Medical
College Hospital. In his report under the heading injuries he observed

as follows:-

Injuries : - Epidermal as well as dermoepidermal burn
face, all sides of the neck, both axilla, all sides of both arms, all sides
of both forearms, all sides of both palms, front and back of the
chest, front and back of the abdomen, perineum, both buttocks, all
sides of both thighs, all sides of right leg, all sides of left leg except
93

lateral aspect of left leg. The floor of the burn arms are highly
congested, hyperemic, separated from healthy tissues by a red line

and covered 96% of total body surface area approximately.

From the evidence of PW 27 and PW 28 it is clear that the
thumb of the deceased was not in a normal condition so to obtain her

thumb impression in the dying declaration (Ext.16) recorded by PW 27.

14. Now apart from the dying declaration prosecution relied
on the evidence of PW 2 (Murshida Khatun) who saw the accused Zakir
Hussain and the two C.C.Ls coming out from the house of her father-in-
law. She is the only witness who saw the accused persons. After
hearing her scream other Pws arrived at the place of occurrence. Now
learned defence counsel has argued that her evidence is not at all
reliable as she has made improvement in her evidence before the court
from her earlier statement on material point. It is contended that the
said PW in her evidence has exaggerated the fact that the accused
Zakir after raping her has cut down her private part which has not been
substantiated by medical evidence. It is also contended that there is
lots of contradictions in her evidence with other Pws who came to the
place of occurrence. It is also contended that her house is situated in
front of the house of her father-in-law (PW 1) and as per evidence of
PW 45 (1.0.) accused persons went away through the back door of that
house as such it will not be possible on her part to see the accused
persons. Moreover the 1.0. (PW 45) in his sketch map has not shown
the back door of the house of the informant (PW 1) in his sketch map

(Ext.29) as such this aspect falsified the evidence of PW 2.

Now, let us scruitinize her evidence carefully as she is the

vital witness of this case.

In her evidence she has stated that the victim told her
(PW 2), father-in-law that Zakir and the two C.C.Ls after raping her cut
her private part by a knife. Defence in course of her cross-examination

has brought out this contradiction and proved the exaggeration
SF ol

a

AL

va We
or cl sain

04

through PW 45 (S.I. Maheswar Saikia). Thus on the point of cutting the
private parts it is found that improvement has been made and as such
this piece of evidence can be discarded but her whole testimony
cannot be discarded since her evidence is intact on material point.
Now, PW 2 has clearly stated that hearing scream she went out from
her house and saw Zakir and the two C.C.Ls were coming out from the
house of her father-in-law. In her cross-examination also she has stated
that from her door she saw Zakir and the two C.C.Ls were coming out
from the house of her father-in-law. Hearing her scream they fled away.
Now this is a very vital piece of evidence and defence except putting
suggestion to PW 2 in this regard could not shatter this evidence so to
impeach her credibility. Now, PW 2 in her cross-examination has stated
that in her statement before the Magistrate she has stated that she
Saw accused persons went out through the back door of the house of
Sarfat Ali. In the sketch map (Ext.29), 1.0. (PW 45) has drawn the place
of occurrence, which is the House of Sarfat Ali and also drawn the
house of Ali Hussain (PW 19), who is the son of Sarfat Ali and husband
of Murshida Begum. In course of cross-examination of PW 45 he stated
that in the sketch map (Ext.29) he has not described the direction,
width, door, window etc. of house of Ali Hussain and the place of
occurrence (House of Sarfat Ali). Now |.0.(PW 45) seems to be not good
In drawing but in Ext.29, he has clearly noted that House of Ali Hussain
is adjacent. Murshida Begum saw three miscreants, Zakir Hussain and
the two C.C.Ls fleeing away through the back door. It is also noted that
boundary and courtyard of Ali Hussain and Sarfat Ali is common. Back
door of Sarfat Ali and front door of Ali Hussain is face to face. PW 1
(informant) in his cross-examination has stated that his house and
house of his son Ali Hussain is face to face. In course of cross-
examination of PW 1, PW 2, PW 19 and PW 45 defence has not
challenged that back door of PW 1 and front door of PW 19 are not face
to face. Now sketch map is for understanding the location of the place
of occurrence. Thus considering the evidence of 1.0. PW 45 and Ext.29,
| am of the opinion that contention as raised by learned counsel that it

is not possible for Murshida Begum (PW 2) to see the accused persons

 

 
OD

feeing away is not at all sustainable. Since the defence has failed to

shake the evidence of PW 2 as such | found her evidence trustworthy.

16. Now, learned defence counsel has contended that there is
contradiction in the statement of PWs as to the fact of time of oral
declaration as made by the deceased to her family members as stated
by Pws with the statement made in the FIR. It is contended that as per
PW 1, PW 2, PW 25, PW 26, the deceased narrated the incident to them
at the house but as per FIR the victim narrated the incident while she

was being taken to B.P.Civil Hospital.

17. Learned Special P.P. has submitted that FIR need not
include minutest details and in support of his contention he referred

the following citations :-

ancl \ Judge i
oP a ty Asset Kirendra Sarkar & ors. Vs. State of Assam (Cri.

| Appeal No.845/09 Supreme Court. Decided on 27-04-2009.

18. Now FIR was written by PW 6 (Safiqul) Islam). PW 6 has
stated that as Sarfat Ali told him to write the ejahar, he wrote the
same. PW 1 also stated in his evidence that he told one person to
write the ejahar. Now the main fact as to the incident has been
narrated in the FIR as told by the victim. Moreover, before receiving the
FIR, GD Entry being No.432 dated 23-03-2018 of Batadraba P.S. case
was made in respect of receiving the information about the incident.
Thus had the victim not told the incident then it would not have been
possible to know exactly what happened. In this case, mere due to
some error in writing the FIR on a point is not sufficient to doubt the
prosecution case when the material fact is narrated properly. Except
the exaggerated part in respect of cutting of private parts of the of the
victim after rape, PW 1, PW 2, PW 14, PW 25, PW 26 has stated before
the 1.0. (PW 45) about the main incident. Now having regard to the
grave and tense situation prevailed at the time of incident and also

considering the mental agony of the parents of the victim and her

 
96

relatives some inconsistency in respect of sense of time is bound to
occur and this is not unnatural. In such a tense situation, it cannot be
expected that everyone who were present at the place of occurrence

will look into the watch and will note down each and every aspect.

19. Now, according to defence FIR (Ext.8) is doubtful as the
date in the FIR has not been written below the signature of the FIR
written rather the date has been written in the above right hand corner
with different ink. Now in the FIR there is endorsement of the O/C
Batadrava PS. with reference to the GD.Entry No.447 dated 23-03-
2018 regarding the receipt of the ejahar and its registration. Moreover,
the said ejahar was sent to the court on 24-03-2018 and the C.J.M.
Nagaon has seen it. As such, | do not find any reason to doubt the FIR

es at 2
acid sudee

SSE:

on such silly ground.

Soe
Nigqgaon
In support of his overall argument learned defence

counsel has relied on the following citations :-

(1) Bhugdomal Gangaram and _. others etc.
Appellants. v. The State of Gujarat, Respondent ( 1983 CRI. L.J.
1276 SC).

(2) Deoraj Goala & Anr. V. The State of Assam.
(2011 CRI.L.J.817) Gauhati High Court.

(3) Yazid Ali and another- Accused-appellants. Vs.
State of Tripura- Respondent ( (1996) 2 Gauhati Law Reportsw
99). kshish Singh - Vs- State of Punjab (1957 AIR 904
equivalent citation 1958 SCR 409)

(4) Ram Kumar Pande, Appellant v. The State of
Madhya Pradesh, Respondent (1975 CRI.L.J.870 = AIR 1975
SUPREME COURT 1026).

(5) Sarman v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2006
CRI.L.J.(NOC) 570 (M.P).

It is the argument of learned defence counsel that

according to PW 28 (Dr. Netromoni Kakoti) who performed the Post-

 
b/

mortem examination on the deceased after microscopic examination of
two slides taken from posterior fornix and around the convix did not
find any spermatozoa. It is also the argument of defence side that the
police seized the lungi of Zakir vide Ext.5 and sent the same to FSL for
examination and FSL Report (Ext.22) gave negative test for kerosene
and semen which proves the innocence of Zakir in commission of
offence. It is also the argument of learned defence counsel that there is
no medical report to suggest that Zakir sustained injury in his male
organ which is bound to occur in case of forced sexual act with a girl of
10/11 years. Learned defence counsel in this regard referred citation
reported in CRI.L.J.1972. 1260 (Supreme Court).

20. Now, the two C.C.Ls are facing enquiry in the J.J.B. Nagaon

er Oe yet some vital doucment like medical report and FSL report, seizure
CAD Pa 4 u “ “9 . . .

u pacte . \gs@"._—_ ist in respect of them has become necessary to peruse so to ascertain

sem involvement of accused Zakir in commission of alleged offence as this
is a case of gang penetrative sexual assault as defined u/s 5(g) of the
POCSO Act, 2012. It is evident from record that vide Ext.7 one torn half
pant - camouflage colour was seized from one of the CCL on 24-03-
2018 and the seizure list was seen by C.J.M., Nagaon and it was sent to
FSL Guwahati for examination. As per FSL Report (Ext.22) said half-pant
was marked as C-21/18(c) which gave positive test for human semen
as deposed by PW 34 (Minakshi Talukdar, Jr. Scientific Officer). Dr. Kapil
Pator (PW 23) examined one CCL on 24-03-2018 at 3.10 p.m. and
found an abrassion on glans pennis at the time of examination. Ext.13
is the medical report. These aspect establishes allegation against him
along with Zakir and other CCLs and also their presence in the house of
the informant because PW 2 (Murshida Begum) saw them coming out

from the house of the informant.

In this case deceased girl sustained 96% burn injury as
per PW 28 (Dr. Netromoni Kakoti). No question was put to him by
defence to ascertain whether in such case presence of semen will be
available. Now evidence of PW 2 (Murshida Begum) and evidence of
PW 27 (Dr. Pallabi Hazarika) and the Dying Declaration Ext.16 is found

 
 

 

58

trustworthy which clearly establishes the fact that on 23-03-2018
accused Zakir Hussain and two CCLs entered inside the house of the
informant (PW 1) was involved in commission of offence of penetrative

sexual assault.

Now Section 5 of the POCSO Act, defines aggravated
penetrative sexual assault. Explantion appended to Sec. 5(g) of the
Act reads as follows:-

(g) whoever commits gang penetrative sexual assault on a
child.

Explanation.- When a child is subject to sexual assault by one
or more persons of a group in furtherance of their common intention,
each of such persons shall be deemed to have committed gang
penetrative sexual assault within the meaning of this clause and each
of such person shall be liable for that act in the same manner as if it

were done by him alone; or

Thus by virtue of deeming provision of this explanation a
person is deemed to have committed gang penetrative sexual assault
even if he has not committed actual penetrative sexual assault but one

of the groups has committed such act.

21. Plea of defence as taken by accused Zakir Hussain in his
statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. has neither been substantiated by adducing
independent evidence nor in course of cross-examination. It is argued
that as per evidence of DW 3 (Abdul Rezak) his son Zakir was born on
the day of Bohag Bihu (15 April) in the year 2001 and Mat. Ext.1
(school certificate of Zakir Hussain) is doubtful.

Now defence has neither claimed juvenility of Zakir
Hussain during trial nor they could rebut Mat. Ext.1 (School Certificate)
by producing any other authentic doucment in support of their claim at
the time of adducing evidence and as such contention as raised by
learned defence counsel is not tenable. As per Mat. Ext.1, the

admission register, the date of birth of Zakir Hussain is 08-05-1999.

 

 
Te, 18

2%
*

ydae
Ass«

59

22. It is the argument of defence side that the school of the
deceased starts from 9 a.m. and ends at 2.30 p.m. as such this aspect
falsifies the fact that incident took place at 1/1.30 p.m. Now PW 1 has
stated in his cross-examination that he could not say at what time his
daughter came to the house. PW 25 and PW 26 were at paddy field.
Murshida (PW 2) was inside her house and hearing scream at 01.30
p.m. she came out and thereafter she found the victim in her house.
Mere timings of school from 9 a.m to 2.30 p.m. and the attendance
register does not prove the fact that the victim was at school on the
day of occurrence till 2.30 p.m. when defence has failed to extract the
same from the mouth of PW 9 (Class-mate of the victim), PW 10
(Teacher), PW 12( Teacher), PW 13 (Teacher).

Ext. F is the school certificate issued by the Headmaster,
Lalung gaon L.P. School in respect of the deceased. It reveals that she
was reading in class-V and her date of birth according to Admission
Register was 08-05-2008. Thus it is evident that at the time of

occurrence she did not complete 10 years.

From the evidence it is established that there were three
boys and as such it will not be difficult to imagine that the victim of
such tender age was unable to put resistence against them. As per
evidence of PW 1, victim told that Zakir and the two C.C.Ls gagged her

mouth and then raped her.

23. Appreciation of defence evidence.

Defence side has adduced evidence of three Pws. Two of
them are listed prosecution witnesses and the classmates of the
deceased whom prosecution did not examine. One DW is accused
Abdul Razzak. It is the plea of accused Zakir as taken in his statement
u/s 313 Cr.P.C. that there was love affair between the victim and one of
the CCL and another CCL used to restrain the victim from loving one

CCL and for this reason he (Zakir) believes that the victim might have

 
= (8

“s ydoe:.
specit Nyssa
LQ QOn **

60

committed suicide by setting her into fire. It is also the plea of the
accused that after the incident he went to the place of occurrence and
many people of the village gathered at the place of occurrence. He saw
the victim and her whole body was burnt and she was not able to
speak. Her parents took her to hospital. After that one Fazal Hoque
spread the rumour that he (Zakir Hussain ) set fire on her as Fazal has
long pending land dispute with them.

DW 1 (Rahena Khatun) and DW 2 (Mainara Khatun) are
the prosecution witnesses whom prosecution did not examine. Defence
has reproduced the statement of these witnesses u/s 161 of Cr.PC. in
their evidence and tried to establish that there was love affairs
between the deceased and one of the CCLs. But nothing could be

proved.

24. Now, so far as plea of land dispute between PW-35 (Fazal
Hoque) and accused Abdul Rezzak is concerned neither this plea was
taken in course of cross-examination of PW 1 (Sarfat Ali) and PW 35
(Fazal Hoque) nor this plea could be proved by defence. Mere certified
copy of Jamabandi (Ext.E) cannot be treated as proof of land dispute.
Defence evidence is found not convincing to combat the strong
prosecution evidence of PW 2 (Murshida Begum), PW 27 (Dr. Pallabi
Hazarika) and Ext.16 (Dying declaration) and to rebut presumption u/s
29 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

| have gone through all the citations so referred by the
learned counsel for the defence. | am of the opinion that thes citations

will not help them.

25. After appreciation of evidence, | have found the evidence
of PW 2 (Murshida Begum) and PW 27 are trustworthy and the Ext.16
free from tutoring, prompting as such reliance can be placed upon

them.

 
61

Now from the evidence of PW 2 (Murshida Begum), PW 28
(Dr. Netromoni Kakoti) and from Ext.16 (Dying declaration) and Ext.18

(Post-mortem report) following facts are established :

(1) Accused Zakir Hussain alongwith two CCLs went to the
house of the informant on 23-03-2018 to commit offence.

(2) Accused Zakir Hussain committed penetrative sexual
assault on the 'X' (deceased) along with two CCLs.

(3) Accused Zakir Hussain in order to cause
disappearance of evidence of committing penetrative sexual assault
set the victim ablazed. |

(4) Due to burn injury death was caused to the victim.

a Wadees,

See .. R88? 26. In view of discussion of evidence made above and placing
reliance on the evidence of PW 2 and Ext.16 (Dying declaration) | have
arrived at the conclusion that -

(1) Accused Zakir Hussain is found guilty of committing
offence u/s 448 IPC.

(2) In view of explanation appended to Section 5(g) of the
POCSO Act, 2012 accused Zakir Hussain is found guilty of committing
aggravated penetrative sexual assault u/s 5(g) of the said Act.

(3) Accused Zakir Hussain is also found guilty of
committing offence u/s 302 IPC for causing the death of 'X' .

(4) Accused Zakir Hussain is also found guilty of

committing offence u/s 201 IPC.

27. Now let's appreciate evidence to decide charges against
accused Abdul Rezzak, Jubeda Begum, Muklesur Rahman, Abdul Rashid
and Fakar Uddin.

Now against accused Abdul Rezzak, Jubeda Begum,
Muklisur Rahman and Abdul Rashid charge has been framed u/s 120-
B/212 IPC.

 
= = 418

sect
Mh gga"

e,
seat

62

Against accused Fakar Uddin charge has been framed u/s
202 IPC.

28. First lets decide the charges against accused Abdul
Rezzak, Jubeda Begum, Muklisur Rahman and Abdul Rashid.

Now in the instant case PW 8 (ASI Habibur Rahman) and
PW 46 (SI Dhiren Kakati) have brought allegation against these persons
for scre3ening the offender Zakir Hussain. According to these Pws on
secret information they proceeded to apprehend Zakir Hussain and
found accused Zakir Hussain and his mother accused Jubeda on the
road of Laugaon and after apprehending them brought to the police
station where they confesses that they made plan to go to Kerala and
Accused Abdul Rezzak, father of Zakir, accused Muklisur Rahman, elder
brother of Zakir and accused Abdul Rashid brother-in-law of Zakir has
calloected money and made arangement for their escaping away to

Kerela.

Now, as per PW 45 (SI Maheswar Saikia) who is the first
|.O. of the case, on 24-03-2018 he went to the house of Abdul Rashid
and finding him in his house brought him to Police Station and arrested
him. Thereafter, on 25-03-2018 alongwith Abdul Rashid made search of
accused Zakir Hussain in the house of their relatives but did not find
him. According to him on 28-03-2018 accused Muklisur Rahman
appeared before the office of the Addl. Superintendent of Police and he
was then taken to the Sadar police station for interrogation and
thereafter he was arrested on the allegation of helping Zakir Hussain in
his escape. On 29-03-2018 he arrested accused Abdul Rezzak.

PW 39 (Mafidul Islam) in his cross-examination has stated
that Abdul Rezzak, father of accused Zakir Hussain was not in his
house prior to 3/4 days of the incident and he cannot say where he has

gone.

 
63

Now in this case, 1.0 has failed to collect cogent materials
to establish in whose house Zakir Hussain and his family member were
taking shelter. PW 45 in his cross-examination has stated that after
arresting and forwarding accused Fakar Uddin, who is the driver of
vehicle No.AS-02-C-4363, he did not make any attempt to identify the

house where Fakaruddin has dropped Zakir Hussain and his mother.

Now conspiracy does not always take place inside the four
corners of the wall but in this case 1|.0. has failed to collect cogent
materials of criminal conspiracy. It is true that after the incident
accused Zakir was absconding but this fact is not sufficient to held
accused Abdul Rezzak, Jubeda Begum, Muklisur Rahman and Abdul
Rashid guilty of charge of criminal conspiracy. Now, any statement
made during police custody or in presence of police cannot be used
against accused as per Section 25 and 26 of the evidence as the same
is inadmissible. As such evidence of PW 8 and PW 45 with regard to
confession of accused Zakir Hussain and Jubeda Begum cannot be

relied into.

29. In this case evidence is found insufficient against accused
Abdul Rezzak, Jubeda Begum, Muklisur Rahman and Abdul Rashid
guilty u/s 120-B/212 IPC.

30. Now, so far as charge against accused Fakar Uddin u/s

202 IPC is concerned let us appreciate evidence.

From the evidence of PW 45 (SI Maheswar Saikia) it is
evident that on 01-04-2018 he seized the vehicle No.AS-02-C-4363 vide
Ext.24 and also interrogated Fakar Uddin the driver of the vehicle.
Seizure of vehicle has been duly proved by PW 40, Abdul Hussain, the

father of accused Fakar Uddin.

According to PW 44 (Majibur Rahman) who is the brother-
in-law of accused Fakar Uddin, after 10/15 days of the incident of

Batadraba, one day, police called him to the police station and

 
Na

‘,
Oo

ty . ( 3 aon

heel

wd

A
ad

{hdee-

. Agse

64

accordingly he went there and found Fakar Uddin and his vehicle there
and came to know from police that police has seized the vehicle by

which Fakar carried Zakir and his family member.

Now, there is no evidence on the record to establish that
accused Fakar Uddin while carying accused Zakir and his mother
Jubeda by his vehicle had knowledge that Zakir has committed crime

and he intentionally did not give information to police.

31. In view of discussion of evidence made above, | have
arrived at the finding that prosecution has failed to establish the guilt

of accused Fakar Uddin u/s 202 IPC with cogent evidence.

32. In view of discussion of evidence made so far | have
arrived at the conclusion that accused Zakir Hussain is found guilty of
committing offence u/s 448/201/302 IPC Read with Section 6 of the
POCSO Act.

Accused Abdul Rezzak, Jubeda Khatun, Muklesur Rahman,
Abdul Rashid are not found guilty for committing offence u/s 120-
B/212 IPC and accused Fakar Uddin is not found guilty for committing
offence u/s 202 IPC.

33. Finding :- | have heard submission of both sides and
gone through the evidence and materials on record and | have arrived
at the finding that prosecution has succeded to bring home the charge
against accused Zakir Hussain u/s 448/302/201 IPC Read with Section 6
of the POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubt accordingly he is

convicted under these sections of law.

Accused Abdul Rezzak, Jubeda Khatun, Muklesur Rahman,
Abdul Rashid are acquitted from the the charge u/s 120-B/212 IPC and
accused Fakar Uddin is acquitted from the charge u/s 202 IPC. They

are set at liberty.

 

 

 
65

The judgment is pronouced in the open court.

Order on sentence will be passed after hearing the
convict and the learned counsels of both sides on the point of

sentence.

Given under my hand and seal of this court, | have signed
and delivered the judgment on this 4th day of September, 2018 at
Nagaon.

Dictated & Corrected by me

LE 49-18

-A1% (Smti-R. Kar)
acial Judge, | Soacial e,
Specia al ATA, Special Wags,
Nagaon. Assam Nagaon, Assam.

Dictation taken & typed by
(Nipen Rajkhowa)
Stenographer

 

 
Fy A8
Age:
i

ey \YOSe*.
a bad ; gee)
OY age!
plata

66

Special (POCSO) Case No.23(N)/2018

Date of argument on sentence : 04-09-2018
Date of order : 07-09-2018.

ORDER ON SENTENCE

 

 

| have heard arguments of Sri M.J.Neog, learned Special
Public Prosecutor as well as Sri M.C. Das, the learned Legal Aid Counsel
for the convict Zakir Hussain.

Learned Special P.P. considering the nature of the crime
has prayed for maximum punishment for all the offences. He has
argued in favour of capital punishment for the offence u/s 302 IPC and

relied on the following citations:-

i). Bachan Singh Vs. State of Punjab, (1980 Cri.L.J.
(SC) 636).

ii). Machhi Singh & ors. Vs. State of Punjab, (1983
Cri.L.J. (SC)1457).

iii). State of U.P. Vs. Satish, (2005 (SC)).

iv). Dhananjay Chaterjee Vs. State of West Bengal,
(1994, SC.)

v). Laxman Naik Vs. State of Orissa, (1995 AIR
(SC), 1387) and

vi).Lochan Shriwas Vs. State of Chatisgarh,
(Chattisgarh HC.2017).

Learned Legal Aid Counsel on the other hand has opposed
the imposition of capital punishment on the following grounds:-

1. The case is based upon circumstantial evidence and the
circumstances are not fully established.

2. The case is based on dying declaration which is
doubtful

 
ds J

wast
+ ASS?

67

3. The accused is a minor boy who has not completed the
age of 18 years.

4.No probability of commission of crime by accused
person in future to constitute continued threat.

5. No evidence with regard to criminal antecedent of the
accused.

6.Case does not involve extreme brutality.

Learned Legal Aid Counsel relied on these citations in
support of his contentions:-

(i) 2017 Cri.L.J. 4228 (State of Orissa Vs. Mata
Munda & ors)

(ii) 2014 Cri.LO.J. 1739 (SC) (Mahesh Dhanji Shinde
vs. State of Maharastra)

(iii) AIR 2017 SC 2363 (State of Maharastra Vs.
Nisar Ramzan Sayyed) and

(iv) AIR 2014 SC 1911 (Setram Vs. State).

| have gone through the citations so referred by both

parties.

In the case of sentencing in respect of offence u/s 302 IPC,
Life Imprisonment is the rule and death sentence is the exception
which is to be awarded in rarest of rare case with special reasons to be
recorded. It is also the principle of law that the court has to weigh the

aggravating circumstances against the mitigating circumstances.

It is well known that principle and guidelines in imposing
death penalty has been developed in the case of Bachan Singh Vs.
State of Punjab (AIR 1980 SC 898) and Machhi Singh and
others. Vs. - State of Punjab (1983 AIR 957).

In Machhi Singh and others. Vs. - State of Punjab
(1983 AIR 957) Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that ;

 
68

“ When the community feels that for the sake of self
preservation the killer has to be killed, the community may well
withdraw the protection by sanctioning the death penalty. But the
community will not do so in every case. It may do so (in rarest of rare
cases) when its collective conscience is so shocked that it will expect
the holders of the judicial power centre to inflict death penalty
irrespective of their personal opinion as regards desirability or
otherwise of retaining death penalty. The community may entrain such
a sentiment when the crime is viewed from the platform of the motive
for, or the manner of commission of the crime, or the anti-social or

abhorrent nature of the crime, such as for instance :

(i) manner of commission of Murder i.e., when the
murder is committed in an extremely brutal, grotesque, diabolical,
revolting or dastardly manner so as to arouse intense and extreme

indignation of the community;

<= 43

. t yydge: (ii) whether the victim is subjected to inhuman acts of torture of
enacial ¥ el
Tan RON * Asse." cruelty in order to bring about his or her death.

Now so far as point No.1 and 2 of argument of learned
defence counsel is concerned, this is not a case of sole circumstantial
evidence. Reason has been shown in the judgment for accepting Dying
declaration (Ext.16).

Let us draw balance sheet in respect of aggravating and

mitigating circumstances in this case.

Aggravating circumstances in this case are :-

1. Age of the deceased/victim was below 10 years. As per
her school certificate (Ext.F) her date of birth is 08-05-2008.
2. She was the victim of gang penetrative sexual assault

at such tender age.
69

3. After gang penetrative sexual assault she was set
ablazed by the accused Zakir Hussain and two CCLs and she died due
to 96% burn injury.

Mitigating circumstance as per submission of
learned Legal Aid counsel:-

1. Young age of the accused.
2. No criminal antecedent.

Now let us weigh both the circumstances in this case.

Here mitigating circumstances appeared against the

accused is his young age. As per learned Legal Aid Counsel convict

Zakir Hussain has not completed 18 years of age. It is already held in

the judgment that defence side in course of trial has neither taken the

Te q-\® plea of Juvenility nor they could rebut the school certificate exhibited
% yee" . by prosecution by producing any other cogent evidence. As per Mat.

CHQtla |

“

Wage" Ext.l, date of birth of Zakir Hussain is 08-05-1999.

Now in number of cases, Hon'ble Supreme Court has not
considered the young age and lack of criminal antecedents as
mitigating circumstances. In the case of Mukesh and another-Vs.-
State for NCT of Delhi & Ors. ( (2017) 6 SCC 1), young age of the
convict/appellant was not considered as mitigating circumstance and

death sentence was confirmed.

Some observation of Hon'ble Justice R.Bhanumathi in
the case of Mukesh and ano. Vs.- State for NCT of Delhi & ors.
( (2017) 6 SCC 1), para 116,126 & 127 are quoted below:-

“116. Question of awarding sentence is a matter of
discretion and has to be exercised on consideration of circumstances
aggravating or mitigating in the individual cases. The courts are
consistently faced with the situation where they are required to answer

the new challenges and mould the sentence to meet those challenges.

 
woh

ne

on

1 bse

70

Protection of society and deterring the criminal is the avowed object of
law. It is expected of the courts to Operate the sentencing system as to
impose such sentence which reflects the social conscience of the
society. While determining sentence in heinous crimes, Judges ought to
weigh its impact on the society and impose adequate sentence
considering the collective conscience or society's cry for justice. While
considering the imposition of appropriate punishment courts should not
only keep in view the rights of the criminal but also the rights of the
victim and the society at large.”

“126. As dealing with sentencing, courts have thus
applied the “Crime Test”, “Criminal Test” and the “Rarest of the Rare
Test”, the tests examine whether the society abhors such crimes and
whether such crimes shock the conscience of the society and attract
intense and extreme indignating of the community. Courts have further
held that where the victims are helpless women, children or old
persons and the accused displayed depraved mentality, committing
crime in a diabolic manner, the accused should be shwon no remorse
and death penalty should be awarded. Reference may be made to
Holiram Bordoloi v. State of Assam (2005) 3 SCC 793 (Para 15-17),
Ankush Maruti Shinde and Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (2009)
6 SCC 667 (para 31-34), Kamata Tiwari v. State of Madhya
Pradesh (1996) 6 SCC 250 (para 7-8), State of U.P. v. Satish (2005)
3 SCC 114 (para 24-31), Sundar alias Sundarajan v. State by
Inspector of Police and Anr. (2013) 3 SCC 215 (para 36-38, 42-42.7,
43), Sevaka Perumal and Anr. v. State of Tamil Nadu (1991) 3
SCC 471 (para 8-10, 12) Mohfil Khan and Anr. v. State of Jkharkhand
(2015) 1 SCC 67 (para 63-65).”

“127. Even the young age of the accused is not a
mitigating circumstance for commutation to life, as has been held in
the case of Bhagwan Swarup v. State of U.P. (1971) 3 SCC 759
(para 5). Deepak Rai v. State of Bihar (2013) 10 SCC 421 (para 91-
100) and Shabhnam v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2015) 6 SCC 632
(para 36)”.

 

 
71

In Purashottam Dasrath Borate and anr. Vs. State of
Maharashtra ((2015) 6 SCC 652) Hon'ble Supreme Court has
observed as follows:-

“It is true that any case of rape and murder would
cause a shock to the society but all such offences may not
cause revulsion in society. Certain offences shock the collective
conscience of the court and community. The heinous offence of
gang rape of an innocent and helpless young woman by those
in whom she had reposed trust, followed a cold-blooded
murder and calculated attempt of cover up is one such
instance of a crime which shocks and repulses the collective
conscience of the community and the court. There in the light
of aforesaid settled principle, this court has no hesitation in
holding that the case falls within the ‘rarest of the rare
category,’ which merits death penalty and none else. The
collective conscience of the community is so shocked by this
crime that imposing alternate sentence, I.e, a sentence of life
imprisonment on the accused would not met the ends of
justice. Rather, it would tempt other potential offenders to
commit such crime and get away with the lesser/lighter

punishment of life imprisonment “.

In the instant case from the evidence of PW 2 and Ext.16
it is established that convict Zakir Hussain and his two accomplices
committed penetrative sexual assault on a girl of about 10 years old
and thereafter they did not hesitate to let the girl of such tender age
ablazed. Now rape itself as a deprave act that too in respect of a girl of
tender age and the convict in diabolic manner has caused her death by
setting her ablazed.

Now-a-days sexual assault on child is rapidly increasing in
horrifying manner and the parents are feeling insecured in respect of
their children. Heinous crime committed in the instant case upon of girl

of tender age shocks the collective conscience of the community. Age

 
i2

of the convict cannot be treated as mitigating against the gruesome

act committed in respect of a girl little less than 10 years.

Considering the facts and circumstances of the instance
case and keeping in view the well settled principles laid down by
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Bachan Singh Vs. State of
Punjab, (1980 Cri.L.J.(SC) 636) and Machhi Singh & ors. Vs.
State of Punjab, (1983 Cri.L.J. (SC)1457) and also considering the
observation of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Puroshottam
Dashrath Borate Vs. State of Maharashtra ((2015) 6 SCC 652)
and landmark Judgment of recent time in the case of Mukesh and
another-Vs.- State for NCT of Delhi & Ors. ( (2017) 6 SCC las
referred above, | am of the opinion that this case falls within the rarest
of the rare category so to award death penalty in respect of offence u/s
302 IPC.
ee ®
special suse In view of discussion so far made, | award the following

. Asse
8

punishment to the convict Zakir Hussain.

(i) The Convict Zakir Hussain is sentenced to 1 (one) year
Rigorous Imprisonment for the offence punishable under Section 448
IPG :

(ii) The Convict Zakir Hussain is sentenced to 3 (three)
years Rigorous Imprisonment for the offence punishable under
Section 201 IPC and a fine of Rs.5,000/- (Rupees Five thousand only) in
default Simple Imprisonment for another three months.

(iii) The Convict Zakir Hussain is sentenced to Life
Imprisonment for the offence punishable under Section 6 of the
POCSO Act and a fine of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten thousand only) in

default Simple Imprisonment for another six months.

(iv) The Convict Zakir Hussain is sentenced to death for
the offence under Section 302 of the IPC. Accordingly, the convict
be hanged by neck till he is dead.He will also pay fine of Rs.10,000/-

 
ie

(Rupes Ten thousand) only in default SimpOle Imprisonment for another

6 (six) months.

The sentences under Sections 448/201 IPC read with
Section 6 of the POCSO Act to run concurrently. Benefit under section

428 Cr.P.C. to be given wherever applicable.

The convict is also informed that he can file an appeal
against the judgment and order on sentence within a period of 30 days
as per Article 115 of the Limitation Act, 1963.

Case record of this proceeding be submitted to Hon'ble
Gauhati High Court for the confirmation of the death sentence u/s 366
Cr.P.C. The file be prepared and be sent to Hon'ble High Court as per

rules.

The sentence of death imposed on the convict shall not
be executed unless it is confirmed by the Hon'ble Gauhati High Court.

The convict Zakir Hussain be committed to jail custody
under warrant.

The exhibits be preserved till the confirmation of death

penalty by the Hon'ble High Court.

Let certified copy of the judgment and order on sentence

be furnished to the accused free of costs forthwith.

Send a copy of the judgment and order on sentence to
learned District Magistrate of Nagaon u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

The DLSA, Nagaon will make necessary enquiry to provide
compensation to the next of the kins of deceased 'X' under the victim
compensation scheme as envisage u/s 357-A of Cr.P.C. Copy of the
judgment & order on sentence be sent to the DSLSA, Nagaon,

accordingly.

 
74

Order on sentence is pronounced in open court.

Given under my hand and seal of this court, | have signed
and delivered the sentence on this 7th day of September, 2018 at
Nagaon.

E17 -(@
(R.Kar )
S pecial ju ane e |
Nagaon.
Dictated & corrected by me.
FE F-4-! 2
( R.Kar )

Nagaon.

Dictation taken & transcribed by
Wfer Refikor=
(Nipen Rajkhowa)
Stenographer.
OONDYRWNE
‘U
<—
On

26.PW. 26 ...
27.PW 27 ....

28. PW 28

29.PW 29 ....
30.PW 30 ....
31.PW 31 ....
32.PW 32 ....
33.PW 33 ....
34.PW 34 ....
35.PW 35 ....
36.PW 36 ...
37.PW 37 ...
38.PW 38....
39.PW 39....
40.PW 40....
41.PW 41 ....
4A2.PW 42 ....
43.PW 43 ....
44.PW 44 ....
45.PW 45....
46.PW 46....

 

Prosecution Witness :

Sarafat Ali
Murshida Begum
Nur Mohammd Faruki
Safiqul Islam, S/O late Hazarat Ali
Nazimul Hoque
Safiqul Islam, S/O Md. Abdul Barik Ahmed
Safiqul Islam, S/O late Zafar Ali
Habibur Rahman
Wahida Khatun
Trishnapriy Buragohain.
Bipasha Kalita
Kabita Biswas
Md. Ataur Rahman
Halima Khatun
Mokshed Ali
Wahid Begum
Rinku Boro
Md. Ispakur Rahman
Ali Hussain
Amir Hamja
Jiten Bordoloi
Srabana Sonowal
Dr. Kapil Pator
Zakir Hussain, S/O Md. Abdul Rashid
Raiman Nessa
Sanjita Khatun
Dr. Pallabi Hazarika
Dr. Netromoni Kakoti
Anjumoni Deka
Bhabani Das
Dr. Bhaswati Sharma
Minakshi Talukdar
Ananta Bordoloi
Minakshi Talukdar
Fazal Hoque
Abdul Jalil
Basudev Roy
Joydev Roy
Mofidul Islam
Abdul Hussain
Ashanullah
Biswajit Nath
Naren Ch. Das
Majibur Rahman
Maheswari Saikia
Dhiren Kakati.

 
76

Prosecution Exhibit :

1. Ext.lo 2 a, Seizure list
2. Ext.2 oo, Seizure list
3. Ext.3 a, Statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
4A Ext4 ow, Seizure list
DS. Ext.5 0, Seizure list
6. Ext6 oo... Seizure list
Fu BREF = sgwwars Seizure list
8. Ext8  —....., Ejahar
9, Ext9 o,, Seizure list
1O.Ext.10 oo... Statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
JLExt.11) 0 o,, Sketch map
12.Ext.12 2, Inquest Report
I3-Ext.13 00 ., Injury Report
T4.Ext.14 oo. Statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
I5.Ext.15 ow, Requisition of Dying declaration
LG.EXC16 = scaisas Dying Declaration.
T7.ExXt.17 0, Seizure of dying declaration.
18.Ext.18 Post-mortem Report.
19.Ext.19 Seizure list

—_—— 20.Ext.20 1... Burn register ( to be verified)

Sc hoe 21.Ext.21 FSL Report

ana 22x22 FSL Report.

Sy agn 23.Ext.23 Seizure list.

“= 24.Ext.24 |... Seizure list.
ZOcERE2Z5 = seas Seizure list.
26.Ext.26 01... GD. Of BPCH P.P. Nagaon.
27.Ext.27 Extract copy of Bhangagarh P.S.GDE No.500
28.Ext.28 ...., Batadraba P.S. GD book
29.Ext.28(1) —..... GD. Entry No.432
30.Ext.28(2) ww, GD Entry No.447
31.Ext.28(3) GD. Entry No.67
32.Ext.29 Sketch map
33.Ext.30 1... Charge-sheet.

Mat. Exhibit of Prosecution

1. Mat.Ext. A...... Kerosene Gallon

2. Mat.Ext.B ...... Piece of half-burn cloth and hair.

3.Mat.Ext.C ...... Mat (locally called dhari woven by bamboo)
4.Mat.Ext.D ...... Seized soil

5.Mat.Ext.E ...... lungi

6.Mat.Ext.F ...... School Certificate issued in the name of deceased.

7.Mat.Ext.G ...... School Certificate issued in the name of CCL.
8.Mat.Ext.H ..... School Certificate issued in the name of CCL.
9.Mat.Ext.l ...... School Certificate issued of Zakir Hussain
10.Mat.Ext.J ..... School Attendance Register of class IV of 2018
11.Mat.Ext.K .... School Attendance Register of class V of 2018
12.Mat.Ext.L .... Admission Register of 2003.

 
77

Defence Witness :

1.DW1_..... Rahena Khatun
2.DW2 _..... Mainara Khatun
3.DW3 _..... Abdul Rezzak.

Defence Exhibit :

1. Ext. A... is the signature in Ext.8.

2. Ext.B ow... Thumb impression of the complainant in Ext.8.
3. Ext.C wa. Nil

4. Ext. Dow... is the Sketch map.

5. Ext. E.......... is the Jamabandi

TE #918
(Rita Kar)
Special Judge,
Ga on,"Assam.
Nagaon :: Assen

 
