IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: ShriS. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 10 (DH)/ 2018.
U/S 366 IPC R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

The State of Assam
- Versus —
ShriPapu Kalita wn... Accused Person
S/O Bhugeswar Kalita,
R/O Modarguri Kalita Gaon,
P.S. Dnemaji,
Dist.- Dhemaii.
Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,

Public Prosecutor haa aeenee eee For the State
ShriS. Milli, Advocate wn. For the Accused
Date of prosecution evidence : 12-11-2018
Date of argument : 12-11-2018

Date of Judgment : 16-11-2018.
JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 23-09-2017
complainant- Dimpul Sharma lodged an ejahar with Dhemaji Police Station
alleging interalia that on that day i.e. on 23-09-2017 while his minor sister-
Smti Ritika Sharma aged about 16 years was going to purchase some articles
from a shop, the accused-Papu Kalita forcibly kidnapped/abducted his sister-
Ritika Sharma from the road.

ze On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused-Papu Kalita u/s 366 of IPC R/W section 4 of the
POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 366 IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act and
read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined two witnesses. At the
closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused was recorded
u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the defence adduced

no evidence in support of his defence.
4.Point for determination :

(1) That, on 23-09-2017 at about 4 PM at Ward No.4, Dhemajji
Chariali under Dhemaji Police Station, you kidnapped/abducted Smti
Ritika Sarmah, a minor girl aged about 16 years from the road with
intent that she might be compelled to marry you against her will or
that she might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby
you committed an offence punishable u/s 366 of IPC.
(2) That, on the same day, time and place and thereafter at
different places you committed penetrative sexual assault on Smti
Ritika Sharmas, a minor girl aged about 16 years and thereby you
committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

5, I have gone through the evidence on record and heard

arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

6. PW1 is the victim Smti Ritika Sharma. She stated that
complainant is her elder brother. She knows the accused. The incident took
place about one year ago. She had love affairs with the accused and she
eloped with him. Her parents opposed to her affair with the accused and they
intended to marry her off to the accused as per social rites. So, her elder
brother lodged complaint against the accused. After filing of the complaint,
police gave her in the zimma of her parents. Now, her parents agreed to give
marriage the victim to the accused and accordingly necessary ceremonies of
marriage have been performed. She and her parents are not willing to

proceed in this case against the accused.

In her cross-examination PW1 stated that she prays that the

accused may be acquitted in this case.

7. PW2 Dimpul Sharma stated that the victim is his youngest
sister. He is the complainant. He knows the accused. The incident took place
about one year ago. His sister had love affairs with the accused and she
eloped with him. His parents opposed to her affair with the accused and they
intended to marry her off to the accused as per social rites. So, he lodged
complaint against the accused. After filing of the complaint, police gave her in
the zimma of her parents. Now, his parents agreed to give marriage the
victim to the accused and accordingly necessary ceremonies of marriage have

been performed. She has also attained majority, 18 years, and now they are
ecial Judg®,
pnemall-

not willing to proceed in this case against the accused. Ext-1 is the ejahar
and EXt-1(1) is his signature.

In her cross-examination PW2 stated that he prays that the
accused may be acquitted in this case.

Appreciation of evidence :
8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that

in this case the victim and the complainant-Dimpul Sharma were examined as
P.W-1 and PW2 respectively. In their evidence this two vital witnesses stated
that the victim girl had love affairs with the accused and she (victim) eloped
with the accused to get marry with him. But, parents of the victim were
opposed to the marriage of the victim with the accused. So, PW2 (brother of
the victim) lodged complaint against the accused. Now, parents of both PWs-
1 and 2 agreed to marry the victim with the accused and accordingly
necessary ceremonies of marriage have been performed. Now, the victim has
attained majority, 18 years, and now the parents of the victim are not willing
to proceed in this case against the accused. In cross-examination, both PW1
and PW2 pray that the accused may be acquitted in this case. Prosecution
side declined to examine the remaining witnesses on the ground that

examination of other witnesses will not improve the prosecution case at all.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences. This is a case of no evidence. In all probability both the
parties have compromised the case outside the Court for which pws have not
deposed against the accused. Be that as it may I find that the prosecution
has totally failed to prove the charges u/s 366 of IPC read with Sec.- 4 of the
POCSO Act against the accused.
10. In view of the above, I find the accused-Papu Kalita not guilty
u/s 366 of the I.P.C. read with Section-4 of POCSO Act. Accordingly, he is
acquitted of the charges leveled against him. Set him at liberty forthwith.

ii. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 16%
day of November/ 2018.
~ yt
( S. Das )

wd
Srageiet *
