IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE AT BARPETA.

Present :- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com., LL.B.,AJS,
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 37 OF 2017
(G.R.No.- 605/2017)
Tarabari P.S. Case No. 30 of 2017

State of Assam

-versus-

Abdul Kader

S/O Late Abdul Baser,

Resident of Malipara,

P.S. Tarabari,

District-Barpeta (40 wnt Accused.

APPEARANCES :

For the State : Mr. Malek Ali Ahmed, learned
Addl. P.P., Barpeta.

For the Accused : Mr. Naba Kumar Ray, learned

Advocate, Barpeta.

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 376 IPC read with
Section 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM
SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012.

 

Date of Charge : 09.06.2017
Date of Prosecution evidence : 25.10.2017;03.01.2018;
13.02.2018; 25.04.2018 &

01.04.2019
Date of Statement of accused: 24.04.2019
Date of Argument : 01.06.2019
Date of Judgment : 12.06.2019
JUDGMENT
1). The prosecution case, in brief, is that Tarabari P.S. Case No

30 of 2017 under section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 1 of 16
Offences Act, 2012 was registered on the basis of a F.I.R. lodged by
Manir Uddin Dewan, father of the victim (hereinafter referred to as
xX’).

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 07.02.2017 (Exhibit -1) the
informant Manir Uddin Dewan (P.W.1), who is the father of the victim
girl, alleged interalia that on 05.02.2017 at about 8:00 AM, the accused
person committed penetrative sexual assault on his minor daughter
namely Narjima Dewan, aged about 8 years when she alongwith her
brother, namely Majirul Dewan went to rice mill which was situated
near the house of the accused. It was also alleged that accused lured
the victim to the house of one Sarumuddin, where nobody was there.
On hearing hue and cry of victim, the wife of Sarumuddin came and
rescued the victim, when she was being abused by the accused. As he
informed the people of society about the incident, so there has been
delay in filing this case.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-In-charge,
Tarabari Police Station, the same was registered as Tarabari PS. Case
No 30/2017 under section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was
medically examined by the doctor, her statement under station 164 of
CrPC was recorded by the learned Magistrate. Police, on completion of
investigation, filed charge sheet, in the case, against the above named
accused Abdul Kader under Section 4 of the Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 vide charge sheet
No.27/17, dated 31.03.2017.

2). My learned Predecessor-in-office received the case record
alongwith the case diary of the case. Accused was summoned. On
appearance of accused, copy was furnished to him by my learned
Predecessor-in-office.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the
documents submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 2 of 16
the learned counsel for the accused and the prosecution in this behalf,
charge was framed by the then Sessions Judge, Barpeta against the
accused under Section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which
was read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, O7 [Seven] number of
witnesses including the victim, her parent, the Medical Officer and the
I/O were examined on behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge
under Section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,
2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of the
above named accused was recorded under Section 313 of CrPC. The
accused denied all the alleged incriminating materials against him. He
claimed himself to be innocent. He also disclosed that informant stole
away his ‘jute materials' prior to 3 months of this incident. He also
stated in his statement that stolen articles were recovered from the
house of the informant. Argument also took place for that reason
between both side. For this reason, informant has lodged false case
against the accused person.

5). | have heard Mr. Malek Ali Ahmed, learned Additional
Public Prosecutor of Barpeta, for the State as well as Mr. Naba Kumar
Ray, learned Defence Counsel for the accused, who is facing trial for
commission of offence under Section 376 IPC read with Section 4
of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the point for determination before this court are as
follows ---

(i) Whether on 05.02.2017 at about 8.00 AM at Malipara
Char, East, within the jurisdiction of Tarabari Police Station,
District Barpeta, accused committed rape on Narzima Dewan,
aged about 8 years, daughter of Mainir Uddin Dewan by

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 3 of 16
committing penetrative sexual intercourse and_ thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 376 IPC read
with Section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 ?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF :

 

7). To decide the above point and sections of law, let us
examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses
alongwith the relevant documents.

Manir Uddin Dewan [P.W.1] who is informant of this
case, deposed in his evidence that incident took place, at about 8.00
AM. The age of his victim daughter was 8 years. On that day, victim
along with her brother namely Majirul went to Rice Mill of Ramjan Ali.
Then, the accused sent her to the house of Sarumuddin to bring
something. After that, accused forcibly took her inside the house and
forced his male organ into the private part of his minor daughter. He
also stated that when the victim raised hullah then accused pressed
her neck and later freed his minor girl.

PW1 disclosed that victim told the incident before her
mother. He disclosed the matter to people of society and the village
people assured him for justice within two days. But the village people
did not solve the matter then he filed FIR.

He exhibited the FIR as Ext.l and Ext.1(1) is his
signature.

During cross-examination PW1 deposed that his house
is situated near 300 meters distance from the house of the accused
person and at the same distance from the house of Sarumuddin. He
also deposed that there were several houses at the place of occurrence
like Manan Ali, Bahadur Ali, Salim Dewan. But he did not discuss about
the incident with these people. He also admitted that he did not
discuss about the incident with wife of Sarumuddin. PW1 further
deposed that he was not at his home when incident took place.

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 4 of 16
He denied that he did not state before the police that his
son Majirul and victim went to the rice mill of Ramjan for grinding
paddy.

He denied that he did not state before the 1/O that
accused sent the victim, to bring something from the house of
Sarumuddin; that there was nobody inside the house of Sarumuddin
and the victim made hulla, when the accused entered his penis in the
private parts of his daughter; that accused pressed her neck and later
she disclosed the matter before her mother.

PW1 further stated that accused did not give bichar before
the village people about theft of 'jute materials’ prior to 6 months of
this incident.

8). The victim [P.W.2] deposed in her evidence that on the
relevant day, she and her brother namely Manjirul went to rice mill of
Ramjan. Then, accused Abdul Kader sent her to the house of
Sarumuddin to bring tobacco. She stated that when she reached at the
doorstep of Sarumuddin house, then, accused Abdul Kader took her
inside the house and opened her panty and committed penetrative
sexual assault. PW2 also stated that when the accused inserted his
penis into the private part of her then she raised hullah then accused
pressed her neck and later freed her. After that, she narrated the whole
incident before her mother in her house. She deposed that the incident
took place at about 7.30 AM.

PW2 further deposed that after the incident, her mother
took her to her aunt's house and then, accused Abdul Kader came and
urged to forgive before her mother.

PW2 stated that her father lodged the case after 2 days as
the village people could not settle the matter. Police took her to thana
and sent her for medical examination and the learned Magistrate
recorded her statement. She further deposed that she narrated the
same fact before the police.

She exhibited the statement as Ext.2 and Ext.2(1) and
Ext.2(2) are her signature.

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 5 of 16
During her cross-examination, she stated that she did
not remember the month of the incident but she knew the date of the
incident which was '5'. She denied that she did not state before the
police that she alongwith her brother went to rice mill. She also denied
that she did not state before the I/O that accused sent her to bring
tobacco from the house of Sarumuddin.

She deposed that she did not state before the police that
her mother took her to the house of her aunty and the accused Abdur
Kader came and prayed to forgive him.

She also deposed that she knows all the members of the
house of Sarumuddin. She further, stated that there was nobody in the
house of Sarumuddin and she did not say anything, before them,
regarding the incident, later on.

She denied all other suggestion of defence side.

9). Hajera Khatun [P.W.3] who is wife of Sarimuddin
deposed that she knows the accused person who took the victim to her
house.

She was declared hostile by prosecution side. She denied
to have stated before the police that “on day before yesterday at
about 8-9 AM Kader Ali called the daughter of Maniruddin,
aged about 8 years from the rice mill and was talking to her in
her house. As | proceeded to the house of my neighboure, |
heard the hue and cry of the girl which may be for the reason
that accused wanted to do bad work with her. | rushed to her.
The accused Kader fled away as soon as | opened the door.
Many nearby people gathered on hearing my hue and cry. The
victim Nazmina Dewan disclosed that accused Kader did bad
work with her. Then, | called the parent of the girl and handed
over the girl to them.” She denied that she did not depose against
the accused Kader to save him.

In her cross-examination by defence side, she deposed
that informant never asked her regarding the incident. She admitted
that she always stay in the house and she closed the door with lock

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 6 of 16
during her absence.

She further stated that Police did not ask him about the
incident. She did not tell before the police as the public prosecutor
stated above.

10). Musstt Rupjan Nessa [PW4] stated that she knows the
informant and the victim. He deposed that the incident occurred about
one year ago.

She further stated that she knew the whole incident from
the mother of the victim. Victim's mother told her that accused raped
her daughter namely Narjima Khatun by taking her to the house of
Sarumuddin.

In her cross-examination, she deposed that the
informant is her brother-in-law. She deposed that her house is near
about *%4 bighas distance from the house of the Sarumuddin. She knows
the neighbourers of the house of Sarumuddin. She did not meet
Foijuddin and Hajera.

She further deposed that she did not state before the
police that neither Narjima's mother nor the victim told her about the
incident.

11). Faizuddin (PW5), stated that he knows the informant
and the victim. He stated that incident took place about one year ago
in the house of Sarumuddin @ Salimuddin. He further stated that a
vichar was held in the house of Amin Bhuyan where he heard that
Kader did bad works with the daughter of Manir. PW5 stated that he
was present in that meeting alongwith Akkash Ali and Nayab Ali
Dewan. They asked accused about the incident and the accused Kader
admitted that he did bed works with Narjima. As there was delay in the
bichar, Maniruddin lodged the case.

He further stated that minutes of the meeting was
prepared and the statement of the accused was also written in that
bichar. He claimed to have the photocopy of the statement of the
accused.

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 7 of 16
In his cross-examination, he deposed that he did not
meet police. He admitted that he did not state before the police as he
told in his evidence before the court.

12). Dr. Anima Boro [PW6], who is the Medical Officer of
this case, deposed in her evidence before the court that on
07.02.2017, she working as Lady Medical Officer at Fakharuddin Ali
Ahmed Medical College & Hospital, Barpeta. On that day in connection
with Tarabari PS. case No.30/2017, she examined victim Narjina
Dewan, aged about 08 years, daughter of Md. Mohiruddin, of village
Chenglirdia, under Tarabari P.S., District Barpeta on being identified by
WPC/433 Janani Mochahari and found as follows:

History:- History of alleged assault sexually by Kadar Ali, 50 years on
last Sunday (05/02/2017) at 7:30 AM.

Physical Examination:-

Identification marks:- One black mole on right Chest.

Height :- 124 Cm. Weight:- 25Kg.

Chest girth at nipple level:- 57 Cm.

Abdominal girth at navel level :- 59 Cm.

Teeth: 24.

Hairs: Axillary/Body :- Absent.

Breasts :- Not developed.

Puberty(as told by the individual):- Not attained.

Menstruation(as told by the individual):- Not attained.

L.M.P.(as told by the individual):- Not attained.

Mental condition:- Stable

Gait:- Normal

Intelligence:-Average.

Wearing garments and any suspected stains present:- No stain
detected.

Bodily injuries:- No body injury detected.

Genital Examination:-

Pubic hairs:- Absent.

Vulva(Labia majora & minora):- Normal

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 8 of 16
Hymen:- Tear

Vagina:- admits 1 finger only.

Cervix and Uterus:- Uterus not palpable per abdominally.

Fourchette and Perineum:-Normal

Vaginal swab collected:-

Result of vaginal swab smear examination:- No Spermatozoa is seen on
microscopic examination of vaginal swab slide.

Result of X-Investigation: Plate No. MLC 12 Dated-07.02.17

Wrist Joint, Eloow Joint & Shoulder Joint :- Epiphyseal unions are not
completed.

Pelvis:-Epiphyseal union is not appeared.

Ultrasonography advised and result: No USG report.

Opinion:-

1]. There is no recent sign of sexual intercourse.
2]. There is no violence marks on her private parts.
3]. There is no foreign body on her body.

4]. According to Xray report, her actual age above 7(Seven)
years and below 9(Nine) years at present.

PW6 exhibited the medical report vide Ext.3 wherein
Ext.3(1) is her signature and Ext.3(2) is the signature of Dr.
Manoj Kr. Singha, Associate Professor Department of Forensic
Medicine.

Her cross-examination was declined by the defence side.

13). Sri Badan Ch. Boro [PW7], investigation officer of the
case, divulged in his testimony that on 07.02.2017 he was wording as
sub-Inspector of police at Tarabari PS. He was entrusted with the
investigation of the case. During investigation, he examined the
complainant on the above said date and he also visited the place of
incident. He drew the sketch Map, which he exhibited as Ext.4 wherein
Ext.4(1) is his signature and examined the relevant witnesses there. On
next day, victim was produced by her father. He examined the victim
and sent her for medical examination. He stated that he also got the
statement of the victim, recorded by the learned Magistrate under

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 9 of 16
Section 164 CrPC.

He further stated that accused was arrested on
09.02.2017 and forwarded before the court. He has deposed that he
collected the medical report of the victim. On completion of the
investigation he submitted the charge sheet against the accused
person under section 4 of POCSO Act. Ext.5 is the charge sheet and
Ext.5(1) is his signature.

In his cross-examination, PW7 deposed that witness
Hajera Khatun (PW3) stated before him that “on that day, at about
8-9 AM, Kader Ali called the daughter of Maniruddin, aged
about 8 years from the rice mill and was talking to her in her
house. As I proceeded to the house of her neighbour, | heard
the hue and cry of the girl which may be for the reason that
accused wanted to do bad work with her.

| rushed to her. The accused Kader fled away as
soon as | opened the door. Many nearby people gather on
hearing her hue and cry. The victim Narjima Dewan disclosed
that accused Kader did bad work with her. Then, I called the
parent of the girl and handed over the girl to them.”

During cross examination, he stated that incident took
place on 05.02.2017 and FIR was lodged on 07.02.2017. The informant
did not tell him the casue of delay in lodging FIR. The place of incident
was shown to him by the informant of the case. He admitted that Ext.4
does not mention the name of village as well as the road.

He stated that He found only one house and he has shown
only one door. He did not examine Belon Khan, Sarumuddin and
Ramjan Mia as they were not present at the time of incident. PW7
further stated that he did not examine the brother of the victim as he
was aged only 2-3 years.

PW7 further deposed that witness Maniruddin Dewan
(PW1) did not state before him that “accused sent Sarumuddin to
bring something from the house; after that Kader also went
there; there was none in the house of Sarumuddin; accused
took the victim in his lap and took her inside the house and

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 10 of 16
opened her pent; that he assaulted her prior part of victim and
she raised hue and cry; accused caught her by her neck; after
some time, she went to her house and disclosed the incident to
her mother.”

PW 7 stated in his cross-examination that witness Nazima
Begum (PW2) did not state before him that “her brother went with her
to grind the paddy; that accused told her to bring tobacco and did not
find tobacco; that her mother took her the house of aunty and accused
Kader made apology to her.”

He denied that witness Hajera Khatun (PW3) was not
examined by him. PW7 denied that PW3 did not tell him that “on that
day, at about 8-9 AM, Kader Ali called the daughter of
Maniruddin, aged about 8 years from the rice mill and was
talking to her in her house. As | proceeded to the house of her
neighbour, | heard the hue and cry of the girl which may be for
the reason that accused wanted to do bad work with her.

| rushed to her. The accused Kader fled away as
soon as | opened the door. Many nearby people gather on
hearing her hue and cry. The victim Narjima Dewan disclosed
that accused Kader did bad work with her. Then, I called the
parent of the girl and handed over the girl to them.”

He further deposed that mother of the victim Narjima told
before witness Rupjan Nessa (PW4) about the incident and Narjima aslo
disclosed the incident, on being asked by her.

PW7 denied that witness Faijuddin (PW 5) was not
examined by him; that he did not give any statement before him.

He (PW7) did not seize any document in this case. He

denied that he has not made any investigation in this case.
14). From a close perusal of the evidence, it is seen from the
statement of the victim (PW2), who is star witness of this instant case
that when she allegedly reached at the door step of Sarumuddin house,
the accused took her inside the house and committed penetrative
sexual assault upon her. She categorically stated that accused entered
his penis into her private part for that she raised hulla.

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 11 of 16
It is interesting to note here that witness Hajera Khatun
(PW.3) who is the wife of Sarumuddin has been declared hostile by
defence side and She denied to have stated before the police that “on
day before yesterday at about 8-9 AM Kader Ali called the
daughter of Maniruddin, aged about 8 years from the rice mill
and was talking to her in her house. As | proceeded to the
house of my neighboure, | heard the hue and cry of the girl
which may be for the reason that accused wanted to do bad
work with her. | rushed to her. The accused Kader fled away as
soon as | opened the door. Many nearby people gathered on
hearing my hue and cry. The victim Nazmina Dewan disclosed
that accused Kader did bad work with her. Then, I called the
parent of the girl and handed over the girl to them.”

The evidence of PW3 is important because accused
allegedly raped the victim in her house and she was first person who
heard hue and cry of the victim girl, which, according to her “may be
for the reason that accused wanted to do bad works with her”. But the
informant, who did not see the incident, had never asked her regarding
the incident. PW3 has stated during her cross-examination by defence
side that informant had not asked regarding the incident. Even Police
has not asked her anything about the incident, asserted P.W.3 in her
evidence. P.W.3 flately refused to have stated before police as per
statement read over by learned Public Prosecutor, as said above. She
also stated that she reside in her house and put lock on the door of the
house, whenever, she goes outside her house. Thus, the version of
victim that she was raped by accused in her (PW3) house becomes
doubtful more so when her mother, to whom she reported the incident
first has not been examined by the prosecution side for the reason best
known to it.

The doubt is further strengthened by the fact that Medical
Officer of the case, who examined the victim did not find sign of sexual
intercourse or violence mark on the private part of the victim (PW2).

PW4 is a reported witness and is related to informant. She
admitted that she did not state before Police that either victim nor her

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 12 of 16
mother told her about the incident.

P.W.5 claimed to be present in a 'Bichar' held after the
alleged incident. He was allegedly present in the 'Bichar' held against
accused in the village alongwith Akkash Ali and Nayat Ali Dewan.
However, no prosecution witness has corroborated the version of P.W.5
to hold that accused admitted his guilt in the 'Bichar' as claimed by
P.W.5 in his evidence. Moreover, P.W.5 did not meet Police. He also
admitted that he did not state before Police as he had deposed in the
Court. Hence his evidence can not be relied at all.

15). It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole
evidence of a child witness is permissible, if such witness is found
competent to testify and the court, after careful scrutiny of its
evidence.

In the case of Dattu Ramrao Sakhare-versus-State of
Maharashtra, reported in [1997] 5 SCC 341, the Hon'ble Apex court
has held that - “A child witness if found competent to depose to
the facts and reliable one, such evidence could be the basis of
conviction. In other words, even in the absence of oath, the
evidence of child witness can be considered under Section 118
of Indian Evidence Act, provided that such witness is able to
understand the questions and able to give rational answers
thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof
would depend upon the circumstance of each case. The only
precaution which the court should bear in mind while assessing
the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be
reliable one and his/her demeanor must be like any other
competent witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored”.

16). In another case, i.e., Pancchi - versus - State of Uttar
Pradesh, AIR 1998 SC 2726, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that -
“It is not the law that if a witness is a child, his/her evidence
shall be rejected, even if it is found reliable, The law is that
evidence of a child witness must be evaluated more carefully

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 13 of 16
and with greater circumspection because a child is susceptible
to be swayed by what other tell them and his child witness is
easy prey to tutoring”.

17). The ratio as laid down in the above case is that the
testimony of a child witness is attributed the same kind of credibility
that it attached to the statement any other witness if the testimony is
consistent.

In the present case, the victim has not been consistent on
the material particulars with regard to the incident which is not
supported vital witness like P.W.3 apart from her own mother.

18). The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Assistant
Collector of Central Excise, Calicut - versus - V.R Sayed
Mohammad, reported in AIR 1983 SC 163 held as follows :

“It is true that the onus of providing the facts
essential to the establishment of discharge against an accused
lies upon the prosecution and the evidence must be such as to
exclude every reasonable doubt about the guilt of the accused.
An accused can not be convicted of an offence on the basis of
conjectures or suspicions. If reasonable doubt arises in the
mind of the court after taking into consideration the entire
material before it regarding the complicity of the accused the
benefit of such doubt should be given to the accused but the
reasonable doubt should be a real and substantial one and a
well founded actual doubt arising out of the evidence existing
after consideration of all the evidence”.

19). Keeping in mind the above rational as laid down by the
Hon'ble Apex Court, | am constrained to hold that the evidence
adduced by the prosecution in support of its case is nothing shorter
than mere conjectures and suspicion. Consequently, the charge under
Sections 376 of IPC as well as under Section 4 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 is held to be not proved

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 14 of 16
against the accused Abdul Kader beyond all reasonable doubt.
Accordingly, the accused is found entitled to get benefit of doubt, for
which, the accused Abdul Kader is acquitted on benefit of doubt under
Section 376 of IPC as well as under Section 4 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

20. On scrutiny of the evidence on record, it is seen that no
case has been made out against the accused Abdul Kader to warrant
his conviction under Section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 beyond all
reasonable doubt, for which, | am of the opinion that the accused is
entitled to acquittal on benefit of doubt, which | accordingly do.

21. In the result, accused Abdul Kader is acquitted of the
charge under Section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, levelled against him, on

benefit of doubt.

22. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 12%
day of June, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 15 of 16
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Maniruddin Dewan, the informant,
P.W.2 = Miss Narjima Begum, the victim,
P.W.3 = Msstt Hajera Khatun,
P.W.4 = Msstt Rupjan Nessa,
P.W.5 = Faijuddin
P.W.6 = Dr. Anima Boro, the M.O.,
P.W.7 = Badan Ch. Boro, the I.O.,
(B) Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1 = FIR,
Ext.1(1) = Signature of Maniruddin,
Ext.2 = Statement of the victim.
Ext.2(1) & 2(2) = Signature of Narjima Dewan,
Ext.3 = Medical Report,
Ext.3(1) = Signature Dr. Anima Boro
Ext.3(2) = Signature of Dr. Manoj Kr, Singha, Associate
Professor, Department of Forensic Medicine,
Ext.4 = Sketch Map,
Ext.4(1) = Signature of SI Badon Ch. Boro,
Ext.5 = Charge-sheet,
Ext.5(1) = Signature of SI. Badan Ch. Boro.

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.

Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special POCSO 37 of 2017 Page 16 of 16
