Page 1 of 17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

 

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel.for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

32 OF 2016
(Under Section 354 of IPC r/w
section 8 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 605
of 2014)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
State of Assam

=-Vs-
Sri Gejai @ Bhaben Das
Son of Late‘Purna Kanta Das,
Resident of. Ramnathpur,
Police-Station — Missamari,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
20/09/2016
29/04/2017, 14/07/2017,
08/08/2017 & 22/08/2017

31/05/2017 & 25/07/2017

19/09/2017

19/09/2017.

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Mr. F. Haque, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Gejai @ Bhaben Das is put for trial for

allegation of charge under Section 354 of IPC r/w section 8 of the

POCSO Act, 2012.

 
Page 2 of 17

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on
14.03.2014 taking advantaged of absence of any of the family members
of the informant the accused trespass into the house of the informant
attempted to commit rape on his 12 years old minor daughter while the
said daughter raised alarm the accused fled away from the house of the
informant. Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by one
Smt. Manju Basumatary before the O/C of Missamari Police Station on
15.03.2014.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of
Missamari Police Station registered a case being Missamari P.S. Case No
29/14 u/s 448/376/511 of IPC r/w section 8 of thesPOCSO Act, 2012
and endorsed S.I. G. Ch. Borah to investigate the case. After completion
of usual investigation, the O/C Missamari, Police Station sent up the
accused for trial by filing charge sheet u/s 448/376/511 of IPC r/w
section 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused Sri Gegai @ Bhaben

Das.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, mylearned predecessor-in-court framed charge under
section 354 of IPC r/w section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012 against the
accused and particulars of the charge was read over, explained to the

accused to.which he pleads not guilty and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined seven numbers
of witnesses. After completion of prosecution evidence, accused was
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused
and evidence appears against the accused are put before him for
explanation where he denied the evidence. To buttress the defence, the

accused declined to give defence evidence.

6. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of
both the parties.

 
Page 3 of 17

qi The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on or about in the evening of
14.03.2014, at village No-2, Ramnathpur
under Missamari Police Station, assaulted
Miss "X", 12 years of age (or used criminal
force to a woman, intending to outrage)
(or knowing it to be likely that you would
thereby outrage the modesty of the said
Miss "“X”) and thereby committed»an
offence punishable under section 354 of
IPC?

(2) "Whether the accused on the same
date, time and place. had committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim
Miss "X” (12 years) and thereby committed
an offence. punishable under section 8 of
the Protection of Child from Sexual

Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

 

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.
9. PW 1, Dr. Sarumai Saikia Bezbaruah, who is the medical

officer of this case has stated that on 14.03.2014 she was working as
Medical & Health Officer-1 Garubandha State Dispensary, Missamari and
on that day at about 9 AM, she examined one minor girl in the PHC on
police requisition of Missamari PS Case No. 29/20145 u/s 448/376/511
IPC r/w section 8 of POCSO Act and found the following:

“She gives history of trying for rape by as person. Abrasion on

right side of cheek. Teeth 13/12. Advised for X-ray of iliac crest, wrist

 
Page 4 of 17

joint for ossification test. Age is below 18 years. She is minor girl. No
secondary sexual character developed. She told that the person tried to

do sexual intercourse but failed. No injury seen in her private parts.

Ext. 1 is the Medical report and Ext. 3(1) is her signature. Ext. 2

is the police requisition.

10. In her cross examination, she admitted that she has not
mentioned the date and time of examination but she has mentioned the
date of incident. So far, she recalled on the date of examination, she

has put signature in her report.

11. PW 2, Smt. Manju Basumatary, mother of.the victim as well
as the informant of this case stated that the accused is her neighbour
and the incident took place about 3 years*ago. On the day of incident,
at about 8 AM, she along with herhusband went to do work. On that
day, her two sons went to the school. Victim was alone in the house. At
about 4 PM, she returned back. One Rishi Boro informed her that an
incident took place in her house: She told her that when she went to the
house of her mother to_bring rice at that time she heard shouting by her
daughter in theirshouse. At that time accused Gejai Das came out from
their house. When’ she asked her daughter, she told her that accused
took heron his leg and removed her clothes and laid her down on a
bed=The accused has also removed his pant and attempted to commit
misdeed. Misdeed means attempt to rape. She has noticed one scratch
mark on her cheek. Accused used to visit their house quite off and on to
see a hen which was given by him on “adhi”. When her husband
returned to home, she and her daughter reported the matter to him. On
the next day, she filed FIR at Missamari Police Station. As per her
dictation the scribe has written the FIR. Her daughter was medically
examined by a Doctor at Garubandha State Dispensary. Her daughter
was also brought to the court for recording her statement u/s 164 of

CrPC. She was given zimma to her.

 
Page 5 of 17

12. In her cross examination, she admitted that Gejai Das lives near
their house. The hen lays eggs and six chicks are grown. Sometimes,
the said hen lay eggs and sometimes 8/9 numbers of chicks are grown.
Later on, the accused did not bring back the said hen. She has not seen
the incident. Police recorded her statement. The victim girl at the time
of reporting about the incident she could not speak clearly. She could

not say the exact age of the victim girl at the time of writing the ejahar.

13. PW 3, Smt. Rishi Boro stated before this court that the
accused is her neighbour and also know the victim of this_case. The
incident took place on 15.03.2014. On that day; she. went to her
mother’s house to bring rice at about 9 AM. Shesmet her maternal
uncle. But she does not know his name. She saw accused entered into
the house of the informant and thereafter.she heard screaming of the
victim. Then, she raised alarm. Thereafter, accused fled away from the
house of the informant. She did/not meet the victim. When the parents
of the victim returned at 4 PM, she-informed them that she saw accused
entering into their house: Then the mother of the victim reported her

that the accused put off the pant of the victim.

14. In his“cross examination, she admitted that she has not seen
any incident. The victim also did not inform her about the incident.
Except telling that Gejai had entered into the house of the informant
she:did not tell anything to the informant. She did not have any further
discussion about the incident after reporting about the accused entering
into their house. She heard that for the aforesaid a village meeting was
held. She does not know about the proceeding of the meeting as she

was absent. Police recorded her statement.

15. PW 4, Sri Satram Basumatary who is the father of the victim
has stated before the court that he knows the accused Gejai Das who
used to visit their home quite off and on. The incident took place in the
year 2014. On the day of incident, she went for his work. His wife is
also gone out for work. At that time, his daughter “X”, who is aged

about 9 years was at home alone. In the evening while he along with

 
Page 6 of 17

his wife came back to the home then they came to know from one Rishi
Boro that accused came to their home in their absence and committed
misdeed to his daughter by opening her pant. On being asked, the
victim report to him and his wife that accused by opening her pant took
her into his lap. It is also stated that the accused came their house and
committed the said misdeed about 9 to 10 AM. Rishi Boro, wife of one
Bhogeswar @ Bhola told him that she seen the accused while he
committing the aforesaid bad act to the victim and on being seen, the
said Rishi Boro, the accused fled away. Police recorded his statement.

Then his wife Smt. Manju Basumatary lodged the ejahar.

16. In his cross examination, he admitted that.he.has not seen the
incident. He know about the incident from the*said Rishi Boro. He being
the father of “X”, know the age of his victim daughter. At the time of
recording his statement by police he stated that his daughter was 12
years of age. His daughter/victim is aydeaf and dumb and she cannot
speak. Accused Gejai Das used*to'visit to their house to see the poultry
on “adhi” system. Therefore, he used to visit their house to see the

poultry. After the incident, they have stopped giving “adhi” to rear the
poultry.

17. PW'5, Miss “X” victim of this case stated before this court that
the accused Gejai is her neighbour. On the day of incident, her parents
were not at home. Her younger brother also went to school. The
incident took place in the morning time. On the day of occurrence,
accused came to their house to see the poultry. The accused asked her
to open her pant and he also opened his pant and then he took her on

his lap after making her naked.

18. In her cross examination, she admitted that a quarrel took place
in between the accused with her father. Thereafter, a case was filed.

The accused came to their house earlier in many occasions.

19. PW 6, SI Gokul Chandra Borah, who is the I/O of this case
stated that on 15.03.2014 he was posted at Missamari PS as 2 Officer

 
Page 7 of 17

and on that day one Smt. Manju Basumatary filed an ejahar before the
O/C Missamari PS. On receipt of the said ejahar, O/C Missamari PS SI
Nurul Hussain and registered the same vide Missamari PS Case No.
29/14 u/s 448/376/511 of IPC r/w section 8 of POCSO Act and
entrusted him to investigate the case. Ext 3 is the said ejahar and Ext 3
(1) is the signature of O/C Missamari PS SI Nurul Hussain. On that very
day, he has recorded the statement of the victim and the complainant
at the police station. On 16.03.2014, he visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statement of the witnesses and prepared sketch map. Ext
4 is the sketch map and Ext 4 (1) is his signature. He then sent the
victim for medical examination to Gorubandha, PHC on 18.03.2014.
Thereafter, he also sent the victim to the court to,record her statement
u/s 164 CrPC through the Ld. Magistrate., Ext.5 \is the forwarding letter
and Ext 5 (1) is his signature. During investigation, he could not arrest
the accused person due to evading\arrest. After completion of usual
investigation, he filed charge<sheet finding sufficient materials against
the accused person under section 448/376/511 of IPC r/w section 8 of
POCSO Act. Ext 6 is the charge sheet and Ext 6 (1) is his signature.

20. In his cross examination, he admitted that Ext 3 is silent about
the time of the incident. He has not found any evidence of any public
meeting \heldin the village to resolve the dispute. The informant also
did-not.inform him about the public meeting held in the village to
resolve the dispute. In Ext 4 sketch map he has shown the house of one
Ponpi Boro as a neighbour of the informant but he has not shown said
Pompi Boro as witness in the charge sheet. Pompi Boro’s residence is
the nearest residence of the place of occurrence. He has recorded the

statement of the complainant Manju Basumatary on 15.03.2014.

Similarly, the witness Smt. Manju Basumatary, did not state
before him that “ the accused took her daughter on his lap and led her
on a bed and the accused has also removed his pant and attempted to

commit misdeed.”

 
Page 8 of 17

21. PW 7, Miss Panchali Shyam is the Addl. Chief Judicial
Magistrate, Golaghat stated that On 18.03.2014 she was posted as a
JMFC, Tezpur. On that day, in reference to Missamari PS Case No. 29 of
14 u/s 448/376/511 of IPC, one victim namely, Mousumi Basumatary,
daughter of Satram Basumatary of Missamari PS was produced before
her as she was the Elaka Magistrate then. The victim being 12 years of
age, she had sent her to State Home, Nagoan, giving her time for
reflection. The victim was asked to be produced on 20.03.2014. On,that
day i.e 20.03.2014, although the victim was produced before her, her
statement could not be recorded as she looked uncomfortable and
complained of stomach pain and she was sent with her mother on
request of her mother, who filed zimma petition.seeking her custody.
The I/O was directed to hand over the victin to her mother on
obtaining zimmanamma of Rs. 5000/- and. the I/O was also directed to
produce the victim on 25.3.2016 for recording her statement u/s 164 of
CrPC. Accordingly, the victim was produced on 25.03.2016 and her
statement was recorded. The victim being a minor aged about 12 years,
she has made enquiry\by’ putting different question to test her
intelligence and rationality of the answer. The said victim was identified
by one Home Guard Bharati Chakraborty. At the time of recording of the
statement other than she and the said victim none was there. The
victim, made ‘her statement voluntarily. After recording her statement,
sheshas read over the contents of statement and on acceptance, the
said Mousumi Basumatary put her thumb impression thereon. Ext 7 is
the statement of Mousumi Basumatary and Ext 7 (1) is her signature.
Ext 8 is the order for recording the statement of the said victim and Ext

8 (1) is her signature. Ext 9 is her order and Ext 9 (1) is her signature.

22. In her cross examination, she admitted that in Ext 7 the thumb
impression of the witness was not endorsed by anybody. She has not
put any question whether the witness was tutored by somebody. She

has not certified Ext 7 as the witness made statement voluntary.

 
Page 9 of 17

20. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence

plea is total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

21. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, the
statement of the victim is doubtful as she herself admitted in her cross
examination that after rearing of poultry a quarrel took place in between
the accused with her father and after the said quarrel her father filed a
case against the accused. Secondly, other than the victim.none is the
eye witness to the incident. Thirdly, there is no injury found on her
private parts neither found on any organ of the body.of the victim.
Fourthly, according to the doctor the victim was, below 18 years. On
the other hand according to the Hon’ble Apex Court as held in Jaf Mala
Vs. Home Secretary, Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir and others
AIR 1982 SC 1297 wherein it has‘been observed that the 2 years “+”
and “Minus” should be given to/the age as determine by the doctor in
this type of cases. Therefore, ‘as*stated by the doctor the victim was
below 18 years that means that the victim was below 20 years if I give
2 years added as par mended of the aforesaid case law of the Hon’ble
Apex Court. Therefore; the age of the victim cannot be permitted to
framed charge u/s.8 of POCSO Act, where it is only come under section
354 of IPC \if the prosecution succeed in proving their case beyond any
reasonable doubt. Fifth/y, there is no any evidence of penetrate sexual
assault of the victim. Sixthly, according to the evidence the accused
rearing the poultry of the informant and to look after the poultry he
went to the house of the victim. On the other hand the father of the
victim used to sale liquor. After purchasing liquor accused had paid Rs.
10/- and during that time the seat cover of the cycle of the accused was
taken by the victim and the accused tried to catch the said cycle seat. In
that incident accused suddenly feel down on the victim which is not at
all with any sexual intent. On the other hand, the Ld. Public Prosecutor
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond any
reasonable, as such, accused is required to be convicted under the

charged section of law.

 
Page 10 of 17

22. Keeping in mind the argument advanced by learned counsels of

both sides, I am going to dispose of the case.

23. I have thoroughly perused the case laws cited by the learned

Senior Counsel for the accused.

24. Keeping in mind the respective submissions advanced by learned

counsel for both parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

25. A close scrutiny of the evidence of the witnesses, it appears that
the prosecution to substantiate the case examined seven=numbers of
witnesses. Out of seven numbers of witnesses, three are the official
witnesses i.e. PW 1, Dr. Sarumai Saikia Bezbaruah who examined
the victim, PW 6, the I/O SI Gokul Chandra.Borah and PW 7, Miss
Panchali Shyam, the Ld. Magistrate who recorded the statement of
the victim u/s 164 of CrPC. There remain only four non official witnesses
which includes the victim and the complainant. As the alleged incident
took place inside the house_of the informant. On the day of occurrence,
in the morning time the:parents of the victim was not at home and the
younger brother of the victim went to the school. So, it would be futile
to accept for the,prosecution to other independent witnesses. Since,
there is no_any eye witness other than the victim. So, we are to see
whether only the solitary statement of the victim can be convicted the

accused.in this case.

26. The main evidence in all such cases is that of the victim herself.
In Baptist in conviction for sexual offence almost entirely depend on the
credibility of the woman, so far as the essential ingredients are
concerned, the other evidence being merely corroborated. It is
necessary that there should be independent corroboration of every
material circumstance in the sense that the independent evidence in the
case, apart from the testimony of the victim, should in itself be sufficient

to sustain conviction.

27. Coming to the present case, the victim, PW 5, Miss “X” stated

that at the relevant time her parents was absent in their home and her

 
Page 11 of 17

younger brother also went to school. The incident took place in the
morning time. On the day of occurrence, accused came to their house
to see the poultry. The accused asked her to open her pant and he also
opened his pant making her naked took her on his lap. Her statement is
corroborated with her statement u/s 164 CrPC and u/s 161 CrPC. Her
statement is supported by PW 2 the complainant who is the mother of
the victim. She stated that one Rishi Boro informed her that an incident
took place in her house. She also told her that when she went to, the
house of her mother to bring rice at that time she heard shouting=by her
daughter in their house. At that time she saw accused, Gejai Das came
out from their house. When she asked her daughter, she told her that
accused took her on his leg and removed her.clothes.and laid her down
on a bed. The accused has also removed his pant and attempted to
commit misdeed. Misdeed means attempt.to rape. She also noticed one
scratch mark on her cheek. Her daughter was also medically examined
by a Doctor at Garubandha State Dispensary. Her daughter was also
brought to the court for recording her statement u/s 164 of CrPC. PW 3,
Smt. Rishi Boro stated. that at the relevant time, she went to her
mother’s house to“bring rice. During that time, she saw accused entered
into the house.of the informant and thereafter she heard screaming of
the victim: Then, she raised alarm. Thereafter, accused fled away from

the housevof the informant.

Though, she has been exposed to long cross examined the
evidence as to at the relevant time, she went to her mother’s house to
bring rice. During that time, she saw accused entered into the house of
the informant and thereafter she heard screaming of the victim and also
saw the accused fled away from the house of the informant has

remained unchallenged.

28. It is interesting to note that the cross examination of the victim,
she admitted that a quarrel took place in between the accused with her
father for rearing the poultry and after the said quarrel this case was

filed. But PW 2 the complainant has not been cross examined neither

 
Page 12 of 17

any suggestion has been put to her that there is a quarrel took place for

the rearing of poultry in between the accused and the complainant.

29. In the present case, at the time of examination of the victim
some questions were put to her and she then replied the same without
any hesitation and this Court has held that the victim has able to give
rational answers. Thereafter, her statement was recorded without oath.
Apart from that the other witnesses including the parents of the victim
supported the evidence. Besides them the neighbour witness PW 3 Rishi
Boro has also supported the evidence of the victim. Besides she has
vividly described that at the time when she went to-her mother’s house
to bring rice, she noticed accused entered into the house of the
informant and after hearing screaming sound.of the victim and while
she came to see the accused fled away from the house of the

informant.

30. As stated above the prosecutrix herself admitted that a quarrel
took place in between the-accused with her father before filing this case
for rearing of poultry. but.also appears that neither the prosecutrix nor
any of the witnesses has been examined of any bitter enmity in
between the accused and the complainant. There is no any evidence
available for a quarrel for rearing of poultry led to enmity in between
the familysmembers of the accused and the victim. It is not explained as
to. why the victim of sexual assault would blame accused sparing real
culprit. That apart, there appears no any reason that the complainant
being the mother of the victim would put her minor daughter at stake
by falsely pressing commission of penetrative sexual intercourse.
Therefore, the statement of victim is found to be worthy of credence,

convincing and reliable.

31. In the present case, at the time of recording the statement of
the accused u/s 313 CrPC all the incriminating evidence appears against
the accused are duly put to him where he denied the evidence and
allegation. He simply stated that the victim girl has got Rs. 10/- as he

has purchased & consumed liquor from her so she asked him Rs 10/-.

 
Page 13 of 17

He told her to make payment in the next day, then the said victim girl
forcefully taken his seat cover of his bicycle and kept the seat cover
under the clothes. When he searched the said seat cover the victim’s
pant was come down automatically as the string of the pant was very

loose, he has committed no any misdeed to her.

32. In Munna Kr. Upadhaya @ Munna Upadhaya Vs. State of
Andhra Pradesh reported in 2012 Cri.L.J. 3068, the Hon’ble\Apex
Court pleased to held —

“Statement made by the accused u/s 313.Cr.P.C. serves
a dual purpose. Firstly, to afford to the accused an opportunity
to explain his conduct and secondly, \to, use denial of
established facts as incriminating evidence against him if the
accused given incorrect or false answers during the course of
his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C.,.the court draw an adverse

inference against him”

In the instant case the absurd explanation as to his conduct and
to deny the established fact by the accused can easily drawn an adverse

inference against-him.

33. The another point is to the present case according to the victim
and the complainant that at the time of incident the victim was 12 years
of.old. But the I/O has failed to collect any birth certificate or school
certificate where the victim was last and first attended. Even the I/O
failed to collect any certificate issued by local authority. It is a fact that
the complainant being the mother of the victim supposed to know the
age of her own daughter. But here in the present case, the victim has
also stated about her age as 12 years while her statement was recorded
u/s 164 CrPC. The only evidence available in record to know about the
age of the victim at the time of alleged incident. According to PW 1, Dr
Sarumai Saikia Bezbaruah the age of the victim is below 18 years. It
was argued by the Ld. Counsel for the accused that while relying upon

the Judgment of Hon“ble Supreme Court titled as Jai Mala Vs. Home

 
Page 14 of 17

Secretary, Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir and others AIR 1982
SC 1297 wherein it has been observed by Hon“ble Supreme Court that
margin of error in age ascertained by radiological examination two years
on either side. Relying on the said Judgment learned counsel for the
accused argued that if the margin of + 2 years is taken in that case, the
age of the prosecutrix, certainly be below 20 years. Therefore, it cannot
be said that she was minor on the date of the alleged incident. Hence,
the case cannot come under section 8 of POCSO Act. But from, the
evidence of the prosecution witnesses it has ably proved that (i) there
must have been or used of criminal force of woman, (ii) and such
assault use of criminal force must have been made (a) with intention to
outrage her modesty (b) with knowledge that her.modesty was likely to
be outrage. Under such circumstances, isam/’bound to hold that
prosecution has ably proved the charge. u/s 354 of IPC against the
accused beyond any reasonable doubt, as such the accused is convicted
for offence charge u/s 354 of IPC but he is acquitted from the charge
u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.

34. Heard the accused on the point of sentence where he praying
for leniency on-the ground he is the only bread earner of his family.
Now, he is 45 years of age. He further stated that he has been in

custody formore that about 11 months. Hence, praying for leniency.

35:. According to under section 354 of IPC.—Whoever assaults or
uses criminal force to any woman, intending to outrage or knowing it to
be likely that he will thereby outrage her modesty, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to

two years, or with fine, or with both.

36. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court
should strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the
crime and mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case,

so far as the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor girl was

 
Page 15 of 17

sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only to the body
but also to the mind of the victim and to her family members, but
considering the mitigating circumstances, the accused was hardly 45
years of age at the time of the incident. It is not brought to the notice
of this Court that before this incident, the accused had committed any
other offence there is likely to be his information. The statute u/s. 4 of
POCSO Act prescribes minimum punishment for a term of seven.years
with fine. When the intention of the legislator is to impose stringent
punishment for not less than seven years, this court has no option but
to impose minimum punishment of seven years. Therefore; considering
all aspects the accused is sentenced with an imprisonment for Rigorous

Imprisonment for 10 (Ten) months.
O R_ D_ ER

37. I convict the accused SriGejai @ Bhaben Das u/s. 354 of IPC
and sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 10 (ten) months. The
period, which he detained«in custody, shall be set off from the period of
imprisonment, imposed on him according to the procedure of 428 of
Cr.P.C.

38. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation™is permissible in law. After going through the statement
of witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an
amount of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees twenty thousand) only is awarded as

compensation.

39. The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority, Sonitpur,
Tezpur be asked to give the compensation to the mother of the victim

after proper enquiry.

40. Let a copy of the Judgment be sent to the Secretary, District

Legal Aid Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur for necessary action.

 
Page 16 of 17

41. A copy of this judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost

immediately.

42. Let another copy of Judgment be sent to learned District
Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur, u/s 365 of Cr.P.C.

43. Let the G.R Case No. 605/2014 be sent to Ld. committal Court

along with a copy of Judgment.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 19" day
of September, 2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation.taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
NagdhWNE

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4
Exhibit 5
Exhibit 6
Exhibit 7

Exhibit 8

Exhibit 9

NIL

Page 17 of 17

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- Dr. Sarumai Saikia Bezbaruah

= Smt. Manju Basumatary, Informant
:- Smt. Rishi Boro

~ Sri Satram Basumatary

‘- Miss “X”, Victim

- SI Sokul Chandra Borah, I/O

- Miss P. Shyam, Addl. C.J.M, Golaghat

EXHIBITS.

= Medicak report

‘= Police Requisition

7 FIR

4 Sketch Map

= Forwarding Letter

'- Charge Sheet

= Statement of the victim Miss “X”

U/s 164 CrPC

- Order for recording statement of
Victim
- Order of Ld. Magistrate Miss P.
Shyam,
Material Exhibit.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
