IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sessions (Spl.) Case No.37/2016
U/S 354 IPC, R/W Section 4 & 8 of POCSO Act

Present : Mr. D. K. Das
Sessions Judge, Morigaon.

State of Assam

Vs.
Sri Ajit Kumar Debnath aaa, Accused
Date of Charge :- 01.12.2016.
Date of recording evidence :- 22.02.2017.
Date of Argument :- 22.02.2017.
Date of Judgment :- 23.02.2017.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State:- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused:- Mr. U. C. Roy, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

Filing of an F.I.R. by one Smti. Mamoni Devi of village Kahibari under
Mikirbheta P.S. in the district of Morigaon with the then O/C Mikirbheta P.S. on
01.08.2016 has given rise to this prosecution case. In this F.I.R., it is alleged by
the informant that on 31.07.2016 at around 7.00 P.M., the above-named
accused person came to her house and committed penetrative sexual assault
upon her minor daughter Miss — X (the real name is withheld to screen the
victim from infamy), aged about 10 (ten) years and also intending to outrage
her modesty by doing such act. It is also alleged by the informant that the
accused person threatened the victim to kill if she disclosed the fact to any

other person.
On receipt of this F.I.R., O/C Mikirbheta P.S. registered a case vide
Mikirbheta P.S. Case No.270/2016, U/s 376 (2) (i) IPC, read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act against the above-named accused and investigation was set in

motion.

During the course of investigation, the I.O. visited the place of
occurrence, arrested the accused, subjected the victim to medical examination,
examined the materials witnesses, drew up the sketch map of the place of
occurrence, produced the victim before the Magistrate to record her statement
U/s 164 of Cr.P.C. and upon conclusion of investigation, the I.0. having found
sufficient incriminating materials submitted the charge-sheet against the above-
named accused for alleged commission of offences U/s 354 (A) IPC, read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act. At the time of filing charge-sheet, the accused was
languishing in jail and subsequently, he got court bail. Copies of relevant
documents were furnished to him. Thereafter, this Court having heard learned
Counsel of both sides and basing upon the materials on record, framed charge
U/s 354 IPC, read with Section 4 & 8 of POCSO Act against the above-named
accused, which was read over and explained to the accused to which he

pleaded innocence and claimed to be tried.

3. Point for determination :

(i) Whether the accused on the eventful day i.e. on 31.07.2016 at
around 7.00 P.M. at the house of the complainant of village Kahibari
under Mikirbheta P.S. in the district of Morigaon, committed
penetrative sexual assault on the minor daughter of the informant ?

(ii) Whether the accused on the same day, time and place committed
sexual assault to the daughter of the complainant ?

(iii) | Whether the accused on the same day, time and place assaulted the

minor daughter of the complainant intending to outrage her modesty?

4. The prosecution in this case has examined only two PWs, the most vital

witness, namely PW-1, the informant and PW-2 the victim and one C.W. But
their evidence did not support the prosecution case on material aspect. In such
circumstances, prosecution has not willing to examine the remaining witnesses
and at the instance of the prosecution its evidence stands closed. Having found
no incriminating materials against the accused, the examination of accused as
warranted U/s 313 Cr.P.C. was dispensed with for ends of justice. The accused

declined to adduce defence evidence.

5. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

6. In this case, it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful day
the above-named accused committed penetrative sexual assault and also

assaulted the minor daughter of the informant intending to outrage her modesty.

To prove this fact, the prosecution initially examined PW-1, the informant.
She in her evidence has stated that she lodged this case. She knows the accused
person. The accused is a resident in their locality. Victim Miss - X is her
daughter. PW-1 has further stated that she lodged the ejahar in the month of
July, 2016. According to her, the accused has friendship with her father-in-law.
and on the eventful day, he came to their house to meet her father-in-law. At
that time her father-in-law was absent. PW-1 has further stated that the accused
called upon her daughter and he took her in his lap and showed her affection,
but her minor daughter did not understand the affection and started to cry.
Then, she went to that place and took away her daughter from the lap of the
accused. Thereafter, she thought that the accused did some misbehavior and
illegal act with her minor daughter. So, she lodged a case against the accused.
PW-1 has further stated that her husband was not present at that time in their
house. He works in defence service and he was stayed outside of Assam.
According to PW-1, she went to the police station and the ejahar was drafted by

some other person. Later on, the accused was arrested by police. She informed
her husband about the incident over phone. PW-1 proved Ext.1 the ejahar, where
upon Ext.1 (1) is her signature. PW-1 has further stated that after a few days of
filing this ejahar, she feels that the case was lodged against the accused due to
misunderstanding, as the accused did not commit any illegal act with her minor
daughter, he only showed affection to her, but her daughter did not understand
and cried out of fear. PW-1 has further stated that she lodged the ejahar,
suspecting that the accused had committed some illegal act with her minor
daughter. In her cross-examination, PW-1 has stated that the ejahar was written
by somebody else and she exactly could not say what was written in the ejahar.
She lodged the case against the accused due to misunderstanding between her

and the accused.

PW-2 (Miss — X), the victim girl in her evidence has stated that her
mother lodged this case. The accused person was a friend of her grand-father.
Sometimes, he used to come to their house. On the day of the occurrence of
incident, the accused came to their house in search of her grand-father. PW-2
has further stated in her evidence that the accused person called upon her and
showed some love affection to her and lifted her in his lap, thus she got afraid
and started to cry and on hearing her cry her mother came there and took her
from the lap of the accused. According to PW-2, her mother suspected that the
accused person committed some illegal act with her and as such, her mother
lodged this case. Later on, her mother came to know that the accused person did
not commit any illegal act with her. The accused person only showed her love
affection by kissing on her cheek. In her cross-examination, PW-2 has stated that
she used to call the accused as “Kaka”. On earlier occasion, the accused never
committed any misbehavior with her. Her mother lodged the case against the
accused suspecting that the accused committed some illegal act with her.

According to PW-2, the case was lodged out of misunderstanding.

C.W.-1 (Dibyajyoti Nath), the father of the victim and the husband of
informant has stated in his evidence that his wife lodged this case in the month

of July, 2016. At the time of occurrence of the incident, he was posted in Uttar
Pradesh in his job. The accused has a friendship with his father and the accused
person used to reside in their locality. The accused was a priest. CW-1 has
further stated that his wife informed him that on the day of occurrence, the
accused came to their house to meet his father, thereafter, the accused called his
daughter Miss- X and took her in his lap, so, she started crying. Then, his wife
came to that place and took away his daughter from the lap of the accused.
According to CW-1, his wife lodged the case against the accused suspecting that
the accused committed some illegal act with his daughter. Later on, he came to
know that the accused did not commit any illegal act with his daughter, he
actually showed affection to his daughter. In his cross-examination, he has stated

that the case was lodged against the accused person out of misunderstanding.

Thus, we have found that none of these witnesses including the most
vital PWs (i.e. complainant and victim) uttered a single word as regards
penetrative sexual assault being allegedly committed by the accused and also the

allegations as alleged in the F.I.R.

A Considering the evidence on record, we have found that the material
part of the prosecution case remained un-substantiated, as the victim herself
stated that the accused did nothing wrong to her. So, we have found that the
most material witness of this case as PW-1 & PW-2 did not support the
prosecution allegation in its material aspects. Section 232 Cr.P.C. mandates an
acquittal of the accused from an offence, which states that “ If, after taking the
evidence for the prosecution, examining the accused and hearing the prosecution
and the defence on the point, the Judge considers that there is no evidence that

the accused committed the offence, the Judge shall record an order of acquittal.”

8. In view of the above discussion and in view of Section 232 Cr.P.C., I
have found that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the accused
beyond any reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused is not found guilty for
the offences punishable U/s 354 of IPC, read with Section 4 & 8 of POCSO Act
and as such, he is acquitted and set at liberty. In this case, since the victim girl
has completely negated the prosecution case, therefore, she is not entitled to

receive any compensation under section 357 A Cr.P.C.
Judgment is delivered and pronounced in the open Court on this 23 day

of February, 2017 under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Sessions Judge

Morigaon.

APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witness

1. PW-1 :- Smti. Mamoni Devi,
2. PW-2 :- Miss Niharika Devi,
B. Court Witness :

1. CW-1 : Sri Dibyajyoti Nath,
C. Defence witness : Nil.

D. Prosecution Exhibit :

1. Ext.1 :- the ejahar.

E. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Morigaon.
