IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDG

 

 

Special (POCSO) (T 1) Case No. 12/2017
U/S - 366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the
POCSO Act.

State

- Versus -
Ajay DaS i eaeeeee Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

 

Appearance and particulars :-
For the State -- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.

For the accused person :- Sri K.U. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidence :- 29.06.2018.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC » 02.07.2018.
Date of Argument += 02,07.20138.
Date of Judgment -- 02.07.2018.

JUDGMENT

hres The prosecution case, in brief, is that on
e 02.09.2017 the informant Jaymohan Tripura lodged an ejahar
oh em with the O/C, Katlicherra Police Station alleging that his daughter,
any” the victim has been prosecuting her studies staying in the

rented house in the village Ganjakhauri, Katlicherra alongwith
other students and on 1.9.2017 at about 1.30 PM the victim
Contd....P/2.

 
(fv pos
Ab we os
vee

Special (POCSO) (T 1) Case No. 12/2017

a2.
came out from the rented house to go to the own house but she
did not reach the house and accordingly, on search, they could
not find out the victim but the informant came to know that the
accused Ajay Das kidnapped his daughter, the victim.

Z: On receipt of the ejahar, the same was
registered as  Katlicherra Police Station Case No. 127/2017
under Sec. 366 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act and
accordingly, police started investigation of the case.

3. During investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, drew up rough sketch map of the place of
occurrence, recorded statements of witnesses including the
informant, got the victim medically examined and also got her
statement recorded by the Magistrate and after completion of
investigation having been found prima facie case laid the charge
sheet against the accused person Ajay Das under Sec. 366 of IPC
read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

4. On appearance of accused person, copies of
relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were
furnished to him.

5. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the
Ld. Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on
record, having found sufficient grounds for presuming that the
accused person has committed the offence, the formal charges
have been framed against the accused person Ajay Das under
Sec. 366 (A) of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. The
charges so framed were read over and explained to the accused
person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
Hence, the trial. Contd....P/3.
. Mx you
~ aMl

as

pRAND?

ial (POCS T1 No. 12/2017
«%

6. In the instant case, the prosecution has
examined only the victim and the informant of the case.
Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence Counsel, the prosecution evidence was closed. The
accused person is examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he
has denied the allegations levelled against him by the
prosecution. The defence did not adduce any evidence.

7 Heard argument of both sides. Perused the
record.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused person on 1.9.2017 at
about 1.30 Pm at Rongpur Pt. IV under Katlicherra PS kidnapped
the victim with intent that she may be or knowing it likely that
she will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, as alleged ?

(ii) Whether the accused person after
kidnapping the victim committed penetrative sexual assault on
her, as alleged ?

DISCUSSION, REASONS AND DECISION THEREOF :-

8. The victim, PW. 1, has deposed that about one
year back in a morning at about 9 AM she went to the house of
her uncle situated at Garmurah without informing her parents
and she stayed there for one day and as such, finding her in the
house not available, her father lodged the case against the
accused. The victim has further added in her evidence that the
accused person did not take her but after hearing about the case,
she appeared in the police station. Police got her medically

Contd....P/4.

 
Special (POCSO) (T 1) Case No. 12/2017

=

examined and also got her statement recorded by the Magistrate
and Ext.1 is the said statement, wherein Ext. 1(2) is her

signature.
In cross examination, the victim has stated that

she made statement before the Magistrate on being tutored by

her father.
9. The PW. 2, the informant Sri Jaymohan Tripura,

has deposed that about one year back one day he was absent in
his house and when he came to his house, he did not find his
daughter, the victim in the house and accordingly, he searched
for her but did not find her out and thereafter, he lodged the
ejahar against the accused on suspect. The informant has also
deposed that subsequently he came to know that the accused
was not involved in the occurrence and his daughter on her own
will, went to the house of her uncle at Garmurah.

10. Now, let me scrutinize the evidence of the
victim and her father, the informant.

The informant (PW. 2), the father of the victim
in his evidence has vividly divulged that he lodged the ejahar
against the accused person on suspect but subsequently, he
came to know that the accused was not involved in the
occurrence and at the relevant time, his daughter, the victim on
her own volition went to the house of her uncle at Garmurah.
Supporting the contention of the informant, the victim has also
made it clear that at the relevant time, she went to the house of
her uncle at Garmurah without informing her parents and stayed
there for one day and the accused did not take her. Though on
perusal of Ext. 1, the statement of the victim, it transpires that
the victim implicated the accused to some extent but before this

Contd....P/5.

 
Special (POCSO) (T 1) Case No. 12/2017

ais

court, it is the clear version of the victim that on being tutored by
her father, she made statement before the Magistrate. As such, |
do not find any concrete reason to hold the accused person Ajay
Das guilty for the commission of the offence, alleged.

id. in fine, the accused person Ajay Das is
acquitted of the charge levelled against him under Sec. 366(A),
IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act and heis_ set at liberty
forthwith.

12. The bail bond of the accused person stands
discharged.

13. Send a copy of this judgment to the District
Magistrate, Hailakandi.

14. The Special (POCSO) case is disposed of
accordingly.

15. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the

open Court under the seal of this Court and on my signature on
this 2" day of July, 2018.

a
UW

Special Judge, Hailakandi.

SPECTIAD JUDGE
Dictated and corrected by me :- HAILAKANDI
ecial Judge ilakandi.
HAILAKANDI
ictation i ken __an nscrib Baharul Islam Choudhu

Stenographer Grade I.
Contd....P/6.

 
Special (POCSO) (T 1) Case No. 12/2017
=.
Appendix :-
Oral evidences :-
PW. 1, the victim.
PW. 2, Sri Jaymohan Tripura.
Documentary evidences :-
Ext. 1- Statement of the victim.
Defence did not adduce any evidence.

\S&
*

Special Judge, Hailakandi.
SPECIAL JODGB
HAILAKANDI

 
