1

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.
SPECIAL POCSO ACT CASE NO. 8 OF 2016.
Under Section 366 I.P.C. read with

Section 4 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012

Present:- Smti. C.R.Goswami, A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-versus-
Nazrul Islam_ ... Accused.
APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Mr. A. Kayem, learned P.P.
For the accused : Mr. D.Pathak, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 25-04-2016, 18-05-2016,16-06-2016
& 18-08-2016
Argument heard on : 19-09-2016

Judgment delivered on : 19-09-2016.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that on 01-02-2016 one Basiran
Nessa lodged an F.I.R. alleging that on 24-01-2016 accused Nazrul
Islam,Ajmat Ali and Sahjahan Ali kidnapped his daughter Abeda
Khatun. On 31-01-2016 she came to know that the victim was confined
in the house of accused Nazrul Islam. While she had gone along with
some villagers to take back the victim the accused persons attempted
to attack them. There after the accused persons committed rape on
the victim and left her at Barpeta Road.

2. On the basis of the FI.R.police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation, submitted charge
2

sheet against accused Nazrul Islam under section 366(A) I.P.C. read
with section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,2012.
3. Accordingly, the accused person appeared before this court.
Copies were furnished to him and after hearing both the parties,
charges were framed against the accused under section 366 I.P.C. read
with section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,2012.
Charges were read over and clearly explained to the accused person to
which he has pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.

4. In course of hearing, the prosecution has examined as many as
seven witnesses including the M/O and I/O. The accused person is
examined under section 313 Cr.P.C. He declines to adduce evidence.

5. Point for determination:-

Whether the accused person on 25-01-2016 at 3.00 A.M.(i.e.
Night of 24-01-2016) at village Bagariguri,Bijni within the jurisdiction of
Sorbhog Police Station, kidnapped Abeda Khatun, the daughter of
informant Basiran Nessa, with intent that she might be compelled to
marry him against her will or knowing to be likely that she might be
forced or seduced to illicit sexual intercourse by means of criminal
intimidation or by any other method to go from any place with intent
that she might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with any
other person and committed sexual assault on her ?

6. Decision and reasons thereof:-

The allegation against the accused person is that on 25-01-2016

at 3.00 A.M. (night of 24-01-2016), the accused person kidnapped the
victim and committed rape on her.
z The said victim is examined as P.W.1.She has stated in her
examination-in-chief that she is living in the house of the accused and
the accused is her husband. She loved the accused and so she eloped
with the accused about 4 months ago. She was produced before the
Magistrate for recording her statement. But she is not produced before
the doctor. She did not make any statement before the police. This
witness is declared hostile by the prosecution.

In cross examination by the prosecution she has denied that she
made the statement as_ recorded by the police under section 161
Cr.P.C.
She has stated in her cross examination by defence that prior to 3
years of the occurrence she had gone along with the accused. Then a
village bichar was held. Then due to some problem their marriage was
not performed. She never stated before her mother that the accused
person kidnapped her. She made the statement before the Magistrate
as tutored by the police. Police threatened her that if she did not state
as tutored, she would be sent to the jail hajot. This time, while she had
gone along with the accused again a bichar was held and in that bichar
several persons were present including Hafijur, Nazrul and her
maternal uncle. Her parents were also called, but they did not come.
She was not examined by any Medical officer.
8. But the Medical officer as P.W.2 has stated that on 04-02-2016
she examined the victim and as per opinion the age of the victim was
above 14 years and below 16 years.
9. The informant as P.W.3 has stated that at the time of occurrence
the victim was 13 years old. While the accused kidnapped her she
made hue and cray and there after lodged the F.I.R. Police recovered
the victim from the house of the accused and now the victim is staying
at her house. This witness is also declared hostile by the prosecution.
In her cross examination by defence she has stated that she did
not lodge the F.I.R. She did not see the kidnapping of her daughter by
the accused She could not say who came to her house hearing her
shouting. She does not know when _ her daughter was recovered and
when she was examined by the Medical officer. She does not know
about the occurrence.
10. One Rehena Swaiji as P.W.4 has stated that about % months ago
one day as per request of the mother of the victim she took her to
Sorbhog police station. The mother of the victim lodged the F.I.R. at
Sorbhog P.S. But she does not know what was written in the F.I.R. and
the mother of the victim also did not tell her anything.
11. One Sayed Ali as PW.5 has stated that Abeda is living with the
accused as husband and wife and due to some misunderstanding the
case was filed against the accused person.
In his cross examination he has stated that the victim is his niece
and the victim and the accused person loved each _ other.

12. One Hajera Begum as P.W.6 has stated that she did not know
either the victim or the accused. One day the mother of the victim told
her that the victim was eloped by one boy. After some time she heard
some hue and cry outside her house. The mother of the victim was
dragging one girl and told her that she recovered the victim. Then they
handed over the girl at Barpeta Road police station.

In her cross examination she has stated that she does not know
what was written in the F.I.R. She only handed over the victim at the
police station.

13.  P.W.7 is the I/O. He has confirmed the statement of the hostile
witnesses.

In his cross examination he has stated that on 01-02-2015 the
victim was handed over to her mother.

14. From the discussions of the prosecution witnesses,it is found
that PRW.4 and P.W.6 have no knowledge about the occurrence. P.W.5
the paternal uncle of the victim has stated that the accused and the
victim are living as husband and wife. They loved each other. The case
was filed due to some misunderstanding. The informant i.e. the mother
of the victim has also admitted that she did not see the occurrence and
also does not know anything about the occurrence. The victim who is
the vital witness has totally contradicted the case of the F.I.R. by saying
that she and the accused loved each other and prior to this alleged
occurrence also once she had gone along with the accused. That time
also a village bichar was held, but due to some problem of the 'Samaj',
their marriage was not performed. This time also a bichar was held, but
her parents were not present in the bichar. She and the accused got
married and now they are living as husband and wife. The accused
person did not kidnap her.

15. Under these circumstances, it is clear that the prosecution has
failed to prove beyond all reasonable doubt any offence against the
accused person. Therefore, the accused person is acquitted and set at
liberty.

16. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety is
extended for another period of six months from the date of this
judgment under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

17. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section
365 Cr.P.C.

18. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 19th day of
September, 2016.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-
(Smti.C.R.Goswami) (Smti.C.R.Goswami)
Sessions Judge, Barpeta Sessions Judge, Barpeta

APPENDIX.

(A)Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1. :Statement under section 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext.1(1) :Sig. of RW.1
Ext.1(2) :Sig. of RW.1
Ext.2 :Medical report
Ext.2(1) :Sig. of PW.2
Ext.3 ‘Sketch Map
Ext.3(1) :Sig. of S.I. Sri Anil Kumar Das
Ext.4 ‘Sketch Map
Ext.4(1) :Sig. of S.I. Sri Anil Kumar Das
Ext.5 ‘Charge Sheet
Ext.5(1) :Sig. of S.I. Sri Anil Kumar Das

B)Defence Exhibits:Nil.

C)Exhibits produced by witnesses:Nil.
D)Court Exhibits:Nil.Ejahar
E)Prosecution witnesses:

(
(
(
(
P.W.1

P.W.1

P.W.3
P.W.4

P.W.5
P.W.6

P.W.7

‘Abida Khatun

:Dr.Anima Boro, Lady M.O., FAA Medical College Hospital,

Barpeta

:Basiron Nessa
:Rehena Swaji

‘Sayed Ali
:Mst.Hajera Begum

‘Sri Anil Kumar Das,2"™ officer at Sorbhog P.S.-S.1. of police.

(F)Defence witnesses:Nil.

(G)Court witnesses:Nil.

Sd/-
(Smti.C.R.Goswami)
Sessions Judge, Barpeta
