Page 1 of 7

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

66 OF 2017
(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 3048 of
2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS

Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Khagen Khodal
Son of Late Mohan Khodal,
Resident of Jaysidhi Khodal basti
Police Station.— Sootea
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
14-11-2017

28-11-2017

28-11-2017

28-11-2017

28-11-2017

Mr. Munin Ch. Baruah
Special Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. A.K. Saikia, Advocate, Legal Aid
Counsel.
Page 2 of 7

JUDGMENT

dx In this case accused Sri Khagen Khodal is put for trial for allegation of
charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that on or about 10
a.m. of 02-08-2017 informant’s 12 years old minor daughter while went to
Assam Gramin Vikash Bank accused kidnapped her. Till 03-08-2017. the
informant tried most to recover his minor daughter but failed. It is suspected
that the accused after kidnapping his minor daughter secretly kept in some
unknown place. Hence, this prosecution case. The .ejahar was filed by

complainant Jamir Ali on 07-08-2017 before the O/C Sootea Police station.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the, Officer-In-Charge of Sootea
Police Station registered a case being Sootea P.S. Case No. 102/2017 u/s
366(A) of IPC. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C Sootea Police
Station filed charge sheet u/s 366 of. IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act

against the accused Sri Khagen«Khodal.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
parties, charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 was framed against the accused Sri
Khogen Khodal and particulars of the charge was read over, explained to the

accused to which‘he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined five numbers of
witnesses. Learned counsel for the accused submitted to close the evidence on
the..ground that the complainant and victim and other witnesses no way
supported the prosecution case, so it would be futile to examine the other
witnesses. I have heard the learned Special Public Prosecutor. On perusal of
the statement of the victim, the complainant and other witnesses, it appears
that they were no way supported the prosecution case, therefore, I think that
prosecution case would not develop even if examined the other witnesses.
Speedy trial is the right of the accused person. Considering the materials and
facts as narrated above, the prosecution evidence is closed. Statement of the

accused is recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the

 
Page 3 of 7

accused and the evidence appears against the accused are put before him for

his explanation where he denied the allegation and declined to adduce defence

evidence.
6. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of both
sides.
7. The point for decision in this case is that -
(1) "Whether on 02-08-2017 at Arunachal Pradesh, the accused
committed penetrative sexual assault on “Miss X” (victim) and
thereby committed an offence punishable under section 4 °of the
Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act?
Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.
8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on
record.
9. PW 1 Sri Paresh Basumatary, who‘is*the complainant and father of the

victim, stated that accused Khagen Khodal is the younger brother of his son-in-
law. Victim is his daughter. At the time of incident, she was only 12 years old.
The incident took place on 02-08-2017. At the evening time, while he returned
to his house from his work, he came to know that his victim daughter was not
available and she is found missing. He vigorously searched but in vain. Accused
resides in a house in a common court-yard of my house. They and their family
members used that court-yard sometimes as a path. After three days, his son-
in-law (Dangar Jowain) Gonesh Khodal told him that accused had taken his
victim, daughter. Then he asked him to bring back his daughter but he did not
returnhis daughter. So, he filed this case. Then victim girl was recovered by
police from Harchura bagan along with the accused after 15/16 days. So, he
filed the ejahar on 07-08-2017. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his

signature. The ejahar was written by one scribe as per his dictation.

In cross-examination he admitted that he does not know how much age
was mentioned of my daughter at the time of her admission by his wife. He has
not seen the accused kidnapping his daughter. He does not want to proceed

the case as the accused is his relative.

 
Page 4 of 7

10. PW 2, Sri Nanda Ram Basumatary, who stated that he knows the
accused, victim and complainant as they are his co-villagers. The incident took
place on 02-08-2017. ON 06-08-2017 the complainant being the father of the
victim called him and other villagers and reported them that his daughter was
missing and therefore searching his daughter. They also searched her. They
came to know from the father of the victim that he suspected the accused in

kidnapping his daughter.

In cross-examination, he admitted that he has not seen the incident. He

has no personal knowledge about the incident.

11. PW 3 Sri Deba Brahma and PW 4 Sri Hema Muchahary have stated
that they know the victim, complainant and accused. Thesincident took place on
02-08-2017 and the father of the victim informed them,that his daughter was
missing on the said day and he suspected thexaccused Khagen Khodal has

taken away his victim daughter.

In cross-examination, they. admitted that they have no personal
knowledge about the incident.,There was no village meeting was held for the

said incident.

12. PWS, the victim Miss “X”, who was examined after making enquiry to
test her intelligence and ability to give rational answers. She stated before this
court that she stated that she went to Gaonlia Bank with her cousin Sabitri.
Sabitri asked her to hand over the carry bag to the accused who is the younger
brother of. her brother-in-law. Accordingly, she went there. As she left the
housesto her brother-in-law’s house without permission of her father so she
could not gather guts to come out from the house of her brother-in-law.
Besides, her father has raising alarm. She further stated that accused/brother-
in-law did not do any misdeed to her and thereafter she went with her brother-
in-law i.e. the accused to Arunachal Pradesh and remained there for four days.
During those days accused did not commit any misdeed to her. From there she
went to the house of maternal uncle of her brother-in-law. Thereafter police

recovered them. She was medically examined by doctor and her statement was

 
Page 5 of 7

also recorded by Magistrate. Ext. 2 is the 164Cr.P.C. and Ext. 2(1) to 2(2) are

her signatures.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she loves the accused. She at
her own will eloped with the accused. She has no objection if the accused is

enlarged on bail.
13. | These much is the evidence of the prosecution.

14. Here in this case since the case is charged u/s 4 of POCSO,Act, so the
most trust-worthy evidence in this case is the statement of the victim.
15. To prove the charge under section 4 of the Protection of Child from
Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, prosecution must prove..the ingredients
mentioned in section 3 of the POCSO Act.

Section 3 of the POCSO Act quoted as follows:

Section 3. Penetrative Sexual assault, - A person is said to
commit "pemetrative sexual assault” if -

 

(a) he penetrates his penis,.to’ any extent, into the
vagina, mouth, urethra or.,anus of a child or makes
the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any.extent, any object or a part of the
body, not being_the penis, into the vagina, the
urethra or anusvof the child or makes the child to do
so with him.or any other person; or

(Cc) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as
to cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or
any part of body o the child or makes the child to do
so with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus,
urethra of the child or makes the child to do so to
such person or any other person.

16. In the present case, neither the complainant nor the victim supported
the prosecution case. The statement of the complainant and victim no way
reveals any ingredients as stated above. The victim stated that she went to
Gaonlia Bank with her cousin Sabitri. Sabitri asked her to hand over the carry
bag to the accused who is the younger brother of her brother-in-law.
Accordingly, she went there. As she left the house to her brother-in-law’s house

without permission of her father so she could not gather guts to come out from

 
Page 6 of 7

the house of her brother-in-law. Besides, her father has raising alarm. She
further stated that accused/brother-in-law did not do any misdeed to her and
thereafter she went with her brother-in-law i.e. the accused to Arunachal
Pradesh and remained there for four days. During those days accused did not
commit any misdeed to her. From there she went to the house of maternal
uncle of her brother-in-law. Besides, she simply stated that she did not have
any repentance against the accused, therefore, she has no any objection. if the

accused is enlarged on acquittal.

In the case like section 4 of pOCSO Act, the victim is thesstar witness.
When the victim gives goodbye to the prosecution case, it will»be futile to
discuss the other evidence of the witnesses. Here in this case-as stated above,

the victim failed to reveal any materials against the accused.

17. Under such circumstances, I have no hesitation to hold that the
prosecution has failed to prove the charge levelled against the accused beyond
any reasonable doubt. Therefore, I acquit the accused Sri Khagen Khodal and
set him at liberty.

18. = The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.
19. Send back the LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 28" day of
November,2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR
Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
Prosecution Witness No.1

Prosecution Witness No.2

Prosecution Witness No.3

Prosecution Witness No.4

Prosecution Witness No.5

Exhibits

Ext. 1
Ext. 2

Page 7 of 7

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

'- Sri Paresh Basumtary, complainant
- Sri Nanda Ram Basumatary

:- Sri Deba Brahma,

- Sri Hema Muchahary

7 Victim

: Ejahar
: statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
