1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present

Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 31/2018
corresponding to GR Case No. 1200/2018
& Bokajan Police Station Case No.
245/2018 Under Section 8 of the POCSO
Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Binod Shah, Accused person

Name of informant/complainant:

Smti Ramita Devi

W/O Shri Lalbabu Singh

Village: Amarajan, Manipuri Basti,
P.S: Bokajan

District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.

Name of the accused person facing trial:

Shri Binod Shah

S/O Shri Baidyanath Shah

Village: Amarajan, Manipuri Basti,
P.S: Bokajan

District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution

Prosecutor
For the accused

Argument heard on

: Mr D. K. Deka, Public

: Mr R. L. Borah
: 03.06.2019
2|Page

Date(s) fixed for Judgment: 10.06.2019/ 17.06.2019/
21.06.2019/ 03.07.2019/ 17.07.2019

N.B:- The Judgment could not be pronounced on the date
fixed due to absence of the accused person.

UDGMENT

1. It is a case of sexual assault alleged to have
been committed by the accused, Shri Binod Shah.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on
14.11.2018 the informant, Smti Ramita Devi lodged
an ejahar with Bokajan Police Station stating inter alia
that on 13.11.2018 at about 6:00 PM taking the
advantage of absence of family members of her
house, the accused who lived near her house in a
rented house molested her victim daughter age of 08
years by touching her private parts and breast. On
receipt of the written ejahar, O/C, Bokajan Police
Station registered a criminal case vide Bokajan Police
Station case No. 245/2018 under section 8 of the
POCSO Act and he himself took the charge of
investigation. On completion of the investigation, he
being the 1.0. submitted charge-sheet under section
354 of IPC read with section 8 of the POCSO Act
against the accused person. Hence the prosecution
case has come up.

5. On completion of appearance of the accused
person before this Court, copy was furnished to him.
Having very carefully gone through submissions of
learned lawyers of both sides as well as case diary, |
found that there was grounds for presuming that the
accused person committed the offence under section
8 of the POCSO Act and accordingly the charge was
framed. The particular of the offence charged was
3|Page

duly read over and explained to the accused to which
he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During trial, Prosecution has examined as many
as 5 (five) witnesses including the informant and
alleged victim. Accused person has been examined
U/S 313 of CrPC. Defense examined none. Plea of
defence is of total denial.

5. Point for determination is:

Whether the accused person Shri Binod Shah on
13.11.2018 at about 6:00 PM at Vill-Amarajan under
Bokajan Police Station committed sexual assault upon
the victim aged 08 years at her house?

6. Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through the
submissions of learned lawyers of both sides as well
as evidence on record. In the very beginning, learned
lawyer appearing on behalf of the accused has
submitted that the prosecution has totally failed to
prove its case beyond all reasonable doubts. On the
other hand, refuting the aforesaid submission,
learned Public Prosecutor, Mr D.K. Deka _ has
submitted that prosecution has duly succeeded in
establishing its case. Prior to forming an opinion on
the rival submissions made by the parties, | would
like to give a glance at evidence on record.

Ps PW-1 is Smti Ramita Devi who is the informant of
this case. She deposed that she knows the accused
person. The occurrence took place on the day of
“Sathh Puja” of November month in the year 2018.
The accused person lived in a rented house near her
house. On the day of incident on evening, her
daughter the victim came to the accused house for
4|Page

watching television. After a while, she went to the
accused house to bring her daughter back and seen
that the accused sexual assaulted with her daughter
by touching her private parts. After reaching home,
she informed the matter to the nearby people. Then
on being asked by the nearby people to the victim
girl and she (victim) informed that the accused
sexual assaulted with her by touching private parts.
Besides the victim girl also disclosed that the
accused touched her chest earlier also. At the time
of occurrence, she was 08 years old. Thereafter, she
lodged the ejahar at Bokajan Police Station. Ext.1 is
the ejahar and Ext1(1) is her signature. Later, police
brought the victim to Diphu Civil Hospital for medical
examination. Statement of the victim was recorded in
the Court.

8. PW-2 is Smti Mamta Debi who has deposed that
she knows the informant, accused and the victim.
The incident occurred on Sathh Puja day in the year
2018. She lived in a rented house in the same
campus along with informant and accused person in
separate rooms. On the day of the incident about
7:30 PM, the complainant informed her that the
accused person molested her daughter by touching
private parts upon the victim. The alleged victim
also informed her that the accused touched her
private parts earlier also that time nobody was
present there. After the next day of the incident, we
lodged ejahar at Bokajan Police Station along with
complainant. At the time of incident, the victim girl
was 08 years old.

9. PW-3 is Smti. Sananu Debi who has deposed in
her testimony that the complainant is her daughter-
in-law. The occurrence took place less than one year.
5|Page

She learned — the incident over telephone from her
daughter-in-law. The complainant informed her that
the accused molested her daughter by touching her
private parts and entering finger into her anus. On
being asked to the victim girl she also informed her
that the accused molested her by entering finger in
private part. At the time of occurrence the age of the
victim was 8 years old. Next day after incident, they
went to the police station and lodged ejahar along
with the complainant and other people.

10. PW-4 is Dr Karik Kropi who has deposed in her
deposition that on 14.11.2018 while she was working
as SDMO at Diphu Civil Hospital, she examined the
victim aged 8 years in connection with Bokajan Police
Station Case No. 245/2018. On her examination, she
found no marks of injury on her body. She did not find
mark of injury on the genital part of the victim. She
did not examine vaginal part as there was no sign of
sexual intercourse. As per X-ray report, age of the
victim girl is below 18 years, around 9-12 years. Ext.2
is the medical report and Ext.2(1) is her signature.

11. PW-5 is the victim who has testified in her
deposition that she knows the accused, Shri Binod
Shah. Accused house is nearby their house. On the
day of the occurrence, the victim girl was watching
TV at the accused house on lying on the bed. Then
the accused person entered into room and inserted
his finger into her anus from her back side. Then she
made hue and cry and the accused informed her that
it is nothing. After the occurrence her mother came
to the house of accused to bring her back. She
informed the matter to her mother after reaching
home. The accused touched her breasts earlier also.
Doctor examined her. Police got her statement
6|Page

recorded in the Court. Ext.3 is her statement and
Ext3(1) and 3(2) are her signatures. At the time of
incident, she was reading in class 4(four).

12. PW-1 is the mother of the victim. PW-2 is the
immediate neighbour of the accused and the
informant. PW-3 is the grandmother of the victim.
PW-4 is the medical officer. PW-5 is the victim.

13. For attracting any provision of POCSO Act, the
victim needs to be a child. According to the 2 (d) of
POCSO Act a person who is below 18 years called a
child. Mother is the best person who knows age of
her children. According to informant mother at the
time of occurrence victim was 8 years old. Similarly,
PW-2 and PW-3 have categorically stated that the
victim was 8 years old at the time of occurrence.
Ext.2 is the medical report also shows that at the
time of occurrence the victim was 9/12 years old.
Taking all aspect into consideration, | am convinced
to hold that at the time of occurrence, the victim was
below 12 years. In view of the discussion above, it
has crystal clear that at the time of occurrence the

victim was child.

14. According to the victim, on the day of occurrence
the accused inserted his finger into her anus from her
back side and that on another occasion the accused
touched her breasts. PW-1 who is the mother of the
victim has stated in her testimony that coming to the
house of the accused she found him touching vagina
of the victim by putting hand inside her pant she was
wearing. Evidence of the victim is silent when her
mother came to the house of the accused, accused
was touching her vagina. Ext.3 is the statement of
the victim girl recorded under section 164 CrPC
7|Page

during investigation wherein the victim stated that
the accused inserted his finger into her anus as she
has stated in her deposition in the Court. Ext.2 is the
Medical report which does not disclose any injury

detected on the back of the victim.
15. In a case of such a nature, victim is most

material and vital witness. PW-2 appears to be
neighbourer of the informant. According to PW-2,
while she came to the house of the informant, the
informant informed her that accused touched private
part and breasts of the victim. Similarly, PW-3 who is
the grandmother has also stated that the informant
informed her that the accused inserted finger into the
private part of the victim and touched her breasts. In
view of the discussion made above, | find that there
is a doubt that the informant mother saw the accused
touching her vagina by putting his hand inside the
pant.

16. AsIhave already held that the victim was a child
below 12 years. A child can be easily tutored. It is
evident that at the time of occurrence the relation
between the accused and the informant was cordial
and that the occurrence took place in the house of
the accused itself. Hence, | find no way to hold that
the informant tutored the victim to depose false out
of grudge.

17. Defence has not let any evidence to rebut the
prosecution case in the light and sprit of section 29 of
the POCSO Act.

18. Section 7 of the POCSO Act is related to sexual
assault which reads thus:- Whoever, with sexual
intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of
the child or makes the child touche the vagina, penis,
anus or breast of such person or any other person, or
8|Page

does any other act with sexual intent which involves
physical contact without penetration is said to

commit sexual assault.

19. Section 8 of the POCSO Act relates to
punishment for committing sexual assault as define
in the section 7 of the POCSO Act which read thus:-
Whoever, commits sexual assault, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term
which shall not be less than three years but which
may extend to five years, and shall also be liable to
fine.

20. Regarding the evaluation of the evidence of the
child witness | would like to refer the decision
rendered in the case of Digamber Vaishnav v.
State of Chhattisgarh reported in “(2019) 4

SCC 522” and relevant para is reproduced below:-
“22. This Court has consistently held that evidence

of a child witness must be evaluated carefully as the
child may be swayed by what others tell him and he
is an easy prey to tutoring. Therefore, the evidence of
a child witness must find adequate corroboration
before it can be relied upon. It is more a rule of

practical wisdom than law.”

21. It is held in State of H.P Vrs Manga Singh
reported in 2018 SCC OnLine SC 2886 by the Hon'ble
Apex Court in respect of sole testimony of victim in
the case relating to sexual offences which reads
thus:- “11. The conviction can be
sustained on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix, if
it inspires confidence. The conviction can be based
solely on the solitary evidence of the prosecutrix and
no corroboration be required unless there are
compelling reasons which necessitate the courts to
insist for corroboration of her statement.
9|Page

Corroboration of the testimony of the prosecutrix is

not a requirement of law; but a guidance of prudence
under the given facts and circumstances. Minor
contractions or small discrepancies should not be a
ground for throwing the evidence of the prosecutrix.”

22. Having regards to the discussion made above
and the observation made in the case Law cited
above, | find no way to disbelieve the evidence of the
victim child. Accordingly | find that the prosecution
has succeeded in establishing its case under section
8 of the POCSO Act against the accused person
beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

23. Inthe result, | find the accused Binod Shah guilty
under section 8 of the POCSO Act and accordingly he

is convicted.

24. On the point of sentence the accused person is
heard and to that effect his statement is recorded.
From the statement it appears that he is the only
earning member of his family consisting of his wife
and his 2 children and that he was not earlier
convicted by the Court of Law. He has also prayed for
leniency in sentencing him. Learned advocate
appearing on behalf of the accused person has
submitted that if the accused is put into the bar his
entire family will have to go without food and as such
the accused deserves to be punished leniently. On
the other hand, the learned Public Prosecutor has
submitted that the accused be punished as per
provision of Law. Taking’ all aspects into
consideration, | do hereby leniently order the accused
Sri Binod Shah to undergo R.I of 3 (Three) years and
10|Page

to pay of Rs. 1000/- i/d S.1 of 1 (One) month. Set off
his earlier detention period. Let certified copies of the
Judgment and order be furnished to the accused
person at free of cost. No order as_ regards
compensation under section 357 A of the CrPC is

passed.
25. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.
26. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on

this 17 July, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed,
AJS)

Special Judge Special Judge

Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi

Anglong,
11|Page

APPENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Smti Ramita Devi
PW2- Shri Smti Mamta Debi
PW3- Smti Sananu Debi
PW4- Dr Karik Kropi

PW5- Smti Laxmi Devi

Defence Witnesses: Nil
Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar
Ext.2- Medical Report
Ext.3- Statement of the victim

Defence Exhibited: Nil

Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam
