IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPL. (POCSO) CASE NO. 92 of 2018
Under section 6 of POCSO Act

State of Assam
—Vs—

Sri Purna Murmu
sina Accused person
Present: Smti. I. Barman, AJS
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State : Mr. M.C. Baruah, Special Public Prosecutor.
For the accused: Mr. F.Haque, Advocate, Tezpur

Date of Argument : 25-10-2019 & 20-11-2019

Date of Judgment.: 20 - 11- 2019

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case against accused Purna Murmu, as projected may,
in brief bedescribed thus :

On 29-09-2018, at around 2 p.m., the informant’s 11 years old
sister/victim put her mobile in the house of the accused Purna Murmu for
charging and lateron, time when she went to take back the cell phone, accused
raped her forcefully. In the FIR it is also explained that as they were poor hence,

out of shame did not disclose the matter immediately.

2. Upon receipt of the FIR from the informant on 17-11-2018, the
O/C Missamari PS, registered the case being Missamari P.S. Case No. 189/18 u/s
4 of POCSO Act and entrusted SI Dandadhar Kumar to initiate the investigation of

the case. In course of investigation, he recorded the statements of the witnesses,

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 1
sent the child victim for medical examination, got her statement recorded u/s 164
Cr.P.C., arrested the accused and on completion of investigation having found
materials submitted charge-sheet against the accused Purna Murmu u/s 12 of
POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of the accused person before this Court, after
furnishing the copies of the documents u/s 207 of Cr.P.C. and after hearing both
parties, charge u/s 6 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused Purna
Murmu and particulars of the charge on being read over and_explained to the

accused person, he pleaded not guilty and demanded to stand for. trial.

4. To substantiate the charge, prosecution examined as many as
7 (seven) witnesses. In statement recorded u/s 313.Cr.P.C,»the accused person
denied all the allegations levelled against him.and pleading innocence submitted
that on that day he was not at home and after.returning home, from his wife
heard that the girl came to his house for charging the cell phone and lateron at
the time of taking back the cell phone she committed theft of one mobile of his
family and when his wife caught hersred» handed and slapped her, out of grudge
the case was filed falsely against him. Defence examined none to substantiate

the plea.

5. I have.heard the arguments of the learned counsel of both

sides and also have gone through the evidence on record.
6. The point to be determined in this case is as follows—

(i) Whether accused Purna Murmu, on 29-09-2018, at about 2 p.m.
at village Nagapathar, under Missamari PS, committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the child victim, below
the age of 12 years, and thereby committed an offence u/s 5
(m) of POCSO Act punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act?

7. Mr. Baruah, the learned Special Public Prosecutor strenuously
argued that the materials on record undoubtedly project a case of aggravated

penetrative sexual assault on a minor girl of 11 years. He further submitted that

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 2
the corroborative evidence of the child victim and other witnesses is enough to

convict the accused person.

8. Controverting the said argument, Mr. F. Haque, the learned
counsel appearing for the accused, submitted that no explicit reliance can be
placed upon the evidence of the minor victim who is a tutored one. Morevover
with the discrepancies in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses during
investigation and during trial, made the prosecution case doubtful and“as such the
accused is entitled to benefit of doubt. Besides, inordinate delay in lodging the FIR
made the prosecution case doubtful and as such the accused,is entitled to benefit
of doubt.

9. In the case, the informant the victim’s,brother, claimed the age of the
victim as 11 years. PW 2 the neighbour stated that he heard that she was 12/13
years old at that time. On the other hand; as persmedical evidence she was above
14 years and below 16 years at the;/time of incident. Though the IInvestigating
Officer (PW 7) deposed that the informant produced him a photocopy of the
school certificate of the victim but neither he seized any certificate nor enquired
about authenticity of the photocopy to ascertain the age of the girl. However it is
not challenged that the.victim was a minor below the age of 18 years at the time
of incident. Taking the evidence of victim’s brother coupled with the medical
evidence though, it cannot be unhesitatingly said that she was below 12 years old
but it can be safely» held in any circumstances she was below 18 years at the

relevant time and was a child as defined under section 2(d) of POCSO Act.

10. Now, the question is whether the accused Purna Murmu
committed an offence. In this respect, it is considered proper to outline a sketch

of the evidence on record.

11. Let us first see what the victim, the star witness stated. PW-1 is
the victim. She stated that on the day of incident in the morning time she went
to the house of accused Purna Murmu for charging the mobile of her elder sister
and in the afternoon at 2 p.m. after returning from school, when she again went
to the house of the accused to bring the mobile, the accused giving the cell

phone by one hand, pulled her by another hand inside his house towards the

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 3
bed, made her lay upon the bed and asking not to raise alarm gagged her
mouth. Thereafter he took off her frock and pant, laid upon her body and
inserting his penis in her vagina did bad act with her. He had threatened her with
her life in the event she discloses the occurrence to others. After half an hour,
his wife arrived and enquired her as to whether her husband had done anything
to her to which she replied in affirmative. Then his wife asked her not to disclose
the occurrence to others. Thereafter, she returned home. Out of fear, she
informed none about the incident and on the next day she informed) the matter
to one Jurita bou. Regarding the incident, a village meetingswas, held and
thereafter her elder brother lodged the FIR. She proved her statement before the
Magistrate as Ext.1.

During cross, she stated that on the day when she was produced
before the court for recording her statement, hervelder brother, one Danda and
Jamuna Baideo came to the court and they asked her to say what was occurred
with her. Accordingly, she made statement before the Magistrate. She clearly
denied the suggestion that on being ‘tutored by her elder brother, Danda and
Jamuna, she made statement before magistrate. She further stated that in the
incident blood was oozing outefrom her private part and she informed about the
bleeding to ‘Jurita‘ bou’\but ‘on the day of incident she had not shown the
bleeding to her sister and: mother. Knowing about the bleeding, ‘Jurita bou’ had

taken her to the hospital and after 2/3 days she was taken to the police station.

12. PW 2, Dandaram Das deposed that in the last part of November, 2018
when he.was at home, father of the victim called him to his house informing that
some untoward incident occurred and that persons gathered infront of the house
of the accused. Then on being asked what happened, he told that his daughter
put her cell phone for charging in the house of the accused and lateron when she
went to the house of the accused to bring back the cell phone, then the accused
closing the door, took her wearing apparels off, made her fell upon the ground
and then making her lay upon bed committed sexual intercourse with her.
Hearing the incident, he went to the house of the accused where about fifteen
persons gathered. In the meeting, on being asked, the victim narrated the

incident and the accused also admitted that he committed rape on the victim.

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 4
During cross, he stated that at first he heard about the incident from

the victim’s father and then heard from the victim on the day of the incident.

13. PW 3, the elder brother of the victim, testified that at the time
of incident when he was in Mumbai, he was called to come home saying that
something occurred with his sister. After he came home, his sister reported him
that on the day of occurrence when she went to the house of the accused to take
back the cell phone which she put there for charging, accused handing. over the
mobile by one hand, pulled her by another hand to the bed, gagged ‘her mouth
and committed rape on her. Hearing the incident, he informed the matter to

“Nari Mancha” and as per advice of “Nari Macnha”, he lodged the FIR, Ext.2.

He denied the suggestion that on that dayxat the time of bringing back
the cell phone which his sister kept for charging\in the house of the accused, she
had stolen one cell phone from the house of the accused and when she was

caught, out of grudge, lodged the FIR falsely.

14. PW 4 Ramesh Pasowan, the VDP Secretary deposed that a
meeting was convened regarding commission of rape on the victim by the
accused Purna Murmu @ Majhi. In the meeting he heard that the victim put her
cell phone for charging in.the house of the accused Purna Murmu and taking the
advantage of absence of other family members, the accused took the victim
inside the room. of his*>house and by closing the door committed her rape. After
the incident, the victim by crying returned home and reported the matter. In the
meeting the victim narrated the incident and the accused also admitted his guilt.

Thereafter, as per advice of the villagers, the victim’s father lodged the FIR.

During cross he stated that the meeting was held after one week of

the incident.

15. PWS Dr. Rika Engtipi, the Medical Officer of TMCH, Tezpur
deposed that on 19-11-2018, she examined the victim Miss X, 11 years, female
of village Naga Pathar, PS Missamari, vide TMCH Registration No. TMC/FM/SC
89/18, in presence of female attendant Semima Khatoon, on being escorted and

identified by WPC 633 Jonali Gogoi and on examination she found the following

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 5
Case history : According to the victim girl on 29-09-2018, at 2 p.m.
when she went to take her phone back which she kept for charging in one Purna
Murmu’s house, he forcefully took her to a room and sexually assaulted her. He
threatened her that he will kill her if she discloses the occurrence to others. Later
she told her neighbor about the incident.

On physical examination :

H- 42.5 cm, W- 33.5 kg, Chest — 74 cm, Abdomen — 65 cm,
Teeth — temporary — nil, permanent 14/14 total — 28.
Hairs:

Scalp — present, black clours 46 cm, Axillary\— black colour present
approx 3 cm, pubic black colour approximately .3°cm, breast — well

developed. No injury mark seen.

Menstrual history, Menarche.— 11 years, cycle — regular, last
menstrual period — 01-10-2018.

Genital examination:

Genital organs — healthy, vulva — healthy hyperpigmented patches
over the inner thigh, hymen — old healed tear at 3 O'clock and 9 O’clock
position. vagina — healthy, evidence of venereal disease — not detected,
vaginal‘swabs collected from posterior fornix.

Injury on the body not detected. Wearing garments — evidence of
struggle.not detected. Evidence of stain not detected.

Mental condition at the time of examination - normal,

Behabiour — co-operative, intelligence and memory are normal
Gait — normal.

Report of Radiological investigation:

X-ray of wrist — The epiphysis of the lower ends of the radious
and ulna are not fused with the parent bone.

X-ray of shoulder joint — the epiphysis of upper end of the
humerous is not fused completely with the parent bone.

Elbow — complete epiphysial fusion noted of the bones around the

elbow joint.

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 6
X-ray pelvis — the epiphysis of the illiac crest is not fused with the
parent bone.
Result of laboratory Investigation:
Examination for vaginal swab — spermatozoa and gonococci not
detected.
On examination, the Medical Officer found no sign and symptoms of
recent sexual intercourse, old healed hymeneal tear present in 3 O’ clock and 9
O’ clock position, no spermatozoa and gonococci seen _ in< vaginal\swab
examination and age of the victim is above 14 years and below=16 years. The
medico legal report is proved as Ext.3
During cross, the Medical Officer stated that if.a girl of 11/12 years is
forcefully intercoursed by an adult man, she may-have bleeding and may require
medical treatment. Except hymeneal tear, no,injury on the body of the girl was
detected. The victim did not give history,of bleeding. Hymeneal tear may cause

due to fingering by self or by falling during cycling or climbing in a tree.

16. PW 6 Smti Jamuna Tanti, the President of “Jana Jagritri Naree
Manch” of Missamari, deposed that'the elder brother of the victim informed their
Samity that his sister went*to*the house of the accused for charging a cell phone
and lateron when she again‘went there to bring back the cell phone, the accused
forcefully raped his sister when no other family member was present. In this
respect, a.meeting, was called by the guardian of the victim, where the victim by
crying narrated that the accused Purna Murmu raped her. In the meeting the

accused Purna Murmu admitted his guilt and then they advised to inform police.

During cross, she stated that her house is less than half km away from
the, house of the accused. Brother of the victim informed them about the

incident after one week.

17. The evidence of PW 7 SI Dandadhar Kumar, the Investigating
Officer, is formal in nature. He visited the place of occurrence, prepared the
sketch map of the place of occurrence (Ext. 4), recorded the statement of the
witnesses including the victim girl, got recorded the statement of the victim u/s
164 Cr.P.C. and sent her to TMCH for medical examination. During investigation

the informant produced a photocopy of the school certificate of the victim girl.

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 7
He arrested the accused and at the close of investigation, submitted charge
sheet against the accused Purna Murmu @ Majhi u/s 12 of POCSO Act (Ext. 5).

During cross, he stated that the date of occurrence is 29-09-2018 and
he received the FIR on 17-11-2018. He further stated that during investigation,
no original school certificate was produced before him and he did not enquire
regarding authenticity of the photo copy of the school certificate. He also stated
that he received no any information about the incident either verbally or in

writing prior to filing the FIR.

18. Bearing in mind the findings as regards the.age of the child
victim as discussed above, let me, now turn to the question.of alleged offence of
penetrative sexual assault on the child victim. The victim’s evidence reveals that
on the day of the incident, in the morning time ‘she went to the house of
accused Purna Murmu for charging cell phone of her elder sister and in the
afternoon at 2 p.m. after returning from school, when she again went to the
house of the accused to bring the cell phone, the accused giving the cell phone
by one hand, pulled her by another*hand towards bed inside his house, made
her lay upon the bed and gagged.her mouth asking not to raise alarm. Thereafter
he took off her frocksand pant and laying upon her body inserted his penis in her
vagina. He had also put an element of fear by threatening her with death if she
reveals the act\to.others. According to her at the time of incident none was
present there and after half an hour, when his wife reached home, she enquired
her as to.whether the accused had done anything to her to which she replied in
affirmative. Then his wife also asked her not to disclose the occurrence to others.
Admittedly, out of fear, on that day, she informed none about the incident and
onthe next day she informed the matter to one Jurita bou. Victim’s brother (PW
3) categorically stated that on being informed, he came home from Bombay and
then his sister reported him that on the day of incident when she went to the
house of the accused to take back the cell phone which she put there for
charging, accused handing over the cell phone by one hand, pulled her by
another hand to the bed, gagged her mouth and then by threatening committed

rape on her.

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 8
19. PW 2, the neighbour, was reported about the incident by the
victim’s father. He fully corroborated the version of the victim. PW 4, the VDP
Secretary and PW 6 the President of “Jana Jagritri Naree Manch” before whom
the elder brother of the victim reported the incident, made the same version.
After arrival of elder brother, a meeting was held. PW 2, PW 4 and PW 5
categorically stated that in the meeting the victim narrated the incident. The
evidence of the PWs clearly shows that on the day of incident the victim in the
morning time went to the house of the accused to put the cell phone for charging
and in the afternoon after returning from school she again went*there for taking
back the cell phone and then the fateful incident occurred. Defence took the plea
that at the time of taking back the cell phone, the victim had stolen one mobile
from the house of the accused and when she was, caught the case was filed
falsely. So, the story of the prosecution regarding charging the cell phone in the
house of the accused by the victim and her arrival there in the afternoon for
taking back the cell phone is admitted by the defence side. Thus it appears that
presence of the victim at around.2 p.m. in the house of the accused for taking
back the cell phone is not in dispute. Though in statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. the
accused denied his presence at home when the victim came to his house to take
back the cell phone,,but during cross examination of the PWs neither took that
plea nor denied that at that time the accused was alone at home. To prove the
plea of alibixat\the relevant time, defence examined none. He even did not
examine _his,wife.to ‘prove that he was not at home at that time. Nothing on the
record thrown any light of any kind of animosity between the victim family and
thexaccused. The evidence of the PWs that the victim kept her cell phone in the
house of the accused for charging clearly shows that they had visiting terms. It is
also not believable that even if, a cell phone was stolen by the victim, a guardian
would malign his minor sister’s name by exposing her as a victim of sexual
assault, unless she was subjected to some sexual assault by someone. The
evidence of the victim makes it clear that the accused inserted his penis into her
vagina. In absence of evidence of any animosity between the parties, I find
nothing to disbelieve the evidence of the victim girl. Defence failed to elicit

anything from her cross examination to show that the victim deposed falsely. Her

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 9
evidence is found spontaneous, firm and trustworthy. A young girl will not stake

her reputation by levelling a false charge concerning her chastity.

20. That apart, the medical evidence is not suggestive of recent
sexual inter-course but there is presence of one old healed hymeneal tear at 3
and 9 O’ clock position. Though during cross the defence suggested that the
hymeneal tear may cause by falling during cycling or climbing in a tree.or by self
fingering but did not take the said plea during cross-examination of the-PWs. The
victim was examined after more than one and half month and as such there is no
possibility of finding sign of recent sexual intercourse. In the present case, it is

not that no injury was found in the private part of the victim.

21. Learned defence counsel also. had raised the point that
prosecution case would fail for the inordinatexdelay in lodging the FIR . As
regards the delay in lodging the FIR is concerned, it is an admitted position that
FIR was lodged after one and half month ‘of the incident. The victim clearly
stated that the accused as well.as his\wife threatened her not to disclose the
incident to others and in the FIR,sthe informant, the brother of the victim
explaining the delay mentioned that due to poor economic condition and out of
shame they concealedsthe, matter. In the case at hand, the place of occurrence
is in a village. It is a normal practice that village folk do not come out wide open
about cases of sexual assault. In the instant case the victim is a girl of tender
age. The _victim’s sex, age and the offence itself are factors which made the
parent/informant/other witnesses to convene a ‘meeting’ and not to report about
thexincident’to the police immediately. From the evidence of victim and the
informant it is forth coming that at the time of incident the informant, the elder
brother of the victim was in Bombay and on being informed about the incident
he came home and then he approached before the “Jana Jagritri Naree Manch”.
Thereafter, a meeting was convened and after hearing the victim and the
accused, the guardian of the victim was advised to lodge the FIR. Being poor
family it is quite natural that the family waited for their son who worked outside
the state to discuss the matter and after his arrival reported the incident to “Jana
Jagritri Naree Manch” and called a meeting and after that only lodged the FIR.
PW 2, PW 4 and PW 6 who were present in the meeting though stated that in

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 10
the meeting accused Purna Murmu admitted his guilt but said statement was not
made before the _ Investigating Officer (PW 7). So there’ are
omissions/contradictions in their statement as regards the extra — judicial
confession of guilt by the accused Purna Murmu at the ‘meeting’ but the
witnesses testified that a ‘meeting” had in fact taken place in the matter of the
allegation of accused Purna Murmu committing rape on the victim child. Thus
some delay was caused in lodging the FIR. This delay cannot be said to be one

made purposefully.

22. In this respect the Apex Court in the case of.Md. Ali. Vs. State
of Uttar Pradesh reported in (2015) 7 SCC 7 SCC 272, had been held as
follows:

“It is apt to mention here that.in rape cases the delay in
filing the FIR by the prosecutrix or by the parents in all
circumstances is not of significance. The authorities of this
Court have granted adequate protection/allowance in that
aspect regard being had ‘to the trauma suffered, the agony
and anguish that creates the turbulence in the mind of the
victim, .to. muster the courage to expose oneself in a
conservative social milieu. Sometimes the fear of social
stigma. and on occasions the availability of medical
treatment to gain normally and above all the psychological

inner strength to undertake such a legal battle.”

23. In the facts of this case as discussed above, I am of the considered
view>that in offence of this sort which involves reputation of a sister/daughter
of very tender age, sometime is often taken by guardians to step forward to
lodge the FIR and this cannot be a ground to disbelieve them. In the present
case, delay is well explained and such delay cannot defeat the prosecution case
of committing the act of rape by accused Purna Murmu and in such situation
delay in lodging the FIR, in my considered opinion, is not fatal to the

prosecution case.

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 11
24. The learned defence counsel also urged that the victim being a minor
one, there is every possibility of being tutored. Settled law is that evidence of
child witness is required to be considered with care and caution so that
possibility of being tutored is ruled out, but cases involving sexual molestation

and assault requires a different approach.

In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare Vs. State of Maharashtra (1997 (5)
SCC 341), Hon'ble Supreme Court held that: (i) A child witnesssif found
competent to depose to the facts and reliable one, such evidence could be the
basis of conviction. (ii) Even in the absence of oath the ‘evidence. of a child
witness can be considered under section 118 of the Evidence Act provided that
such witness is able to understand the answers thereof. (iii) The evidence of a
child witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of
each case. (iv) The only precaution which the.Court should bear in mind while
assessing the evidence of a child witnessyis that. the witness must be a reliable
one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent witness and
there is no likelihood of being tutored. (v) The decision on the question
whether the child witness hasysufficient intelligence primarily rests with the trial
Judge who notices his\manners, his apparent possession or lack of intelligence,
and said Judge may resort.to any examination which will tend to disclose his
capacity and.intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an
oath. (vi) This.precaution is necessary because child witnesses are amenable to
tutoring andyoften live in a world of make beliefs. (vii) Though child witnesses
are pliable and liable to be influenced easily, shaped and moulded, but if after
careful scrutiny of their evidence, the Court comes to the conclusion that there
is an impress of truth in it, there is no obstacle in the way of accepting the

evidence of a child witness.

25. In the case at hand, in cross-examination the victim stated that her
brother, Danda (PW 2) and Jamuna (PW 6) asked her to say before Magistrate
what was done with her. She clearly denied of being tutored by her elder
brother, Danda and Jamuna Baideo. The victim made the same version in court
whatever she stated before the Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and her evidence
has been corroborated by PW 2- Danda, PW 3- her elder brother, PW 4, the

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 12
VDP secretary and PW 6 the President of “Jana Jagriti Naree Manch”. Evidence
of the victim is found spontaneous and trustworthy without inviting any
suspicion of being tutored. I find nothing, which would lead to believe that the

victim was tutored to embellish the version on material point.

26. From the evaluation of the prosecution material as discussed above, it
is abundantly clear that the evidence brought on record proves beyond all
reasonable doubt on the day when the victim went to the house of the.accused
for bringing back her cell phone, accused Purna Murmu making herslaid upon
bed inserted his penis in her vagina. The evidence of the victim inethis case is
convincing and inspiring without the aid of other witnesses that.accused Purna
Murmu @ Majhi committed penetrative sexual assault’on the victim girl. As it is
already held that the victim is not below the age ‘of 12 years, the offence
committed by the accused on the victim girl below the age of 18 years attracts
the ingredients of penetrative sexual assault defined in section 3(a) of POCSO
Act punishable u/s 4 of POCSQ Act instead of Section 6 of POCSO Act.
Accordingly, the accused Purna Murmu’@ Majhi is held guilty for the offence

punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act and.convicted him accordingly.

27. I have heard the accused Purna Murmu @ Majhi on the point
of sentence. His statement is recorded where he stated that he has to look
after his wife and.he is the only bread earner of his family, hence, prayed for
taking a lenient,view. On the other hand, the learned Special Public Prosecutor
submitted that the crime being heinous, the accused should not be dealt with

leniency.

28. I gave my anxious consideration on the aspect of quantum of
sentence. Section 4 of POCSO Act prescribes punishment for a term which shall
not be less than 7 years but which may extend to life and shall also be liable to

fine.

29. In the instant case, the offence committed is penetrative
sexual assault against a female child of 13/14 lyears who was supposed to
spend time in cheerfulness, with her dignity. The girl with afflux of time, would

grow with memories of this painful experience. The accused being a man of

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 13
50 years was expected to protect her from abuse but instead he himself
abused her childhood. Considering all aspects and the submission of the
accused, I am of the considered opinion that the minimum punishment
provided by law for the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act will meet the ends of

justice.

30. Accordingly, I sentence the convict Purna Murmu @ Majhi to undergo
Rigorous Imprisonment for 7 years and also to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/- in
default to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for another 2. months, for the
offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

31. The period of detention already undergone by the.accused shall be set

off against the terms of imprisonment as per provision of.section 428 of Cr.P.C.

32. Convict/accused convict Purna Murmu @.Majhi be sent to Central Jail,
Sonitpur, Tezpur to serve the sentence.

33. Case is recommended for compensation of the victim as per provision
of Section 357 A of Cr.P.C. by) District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur,
Tezpur.

34. Let a free copy ofthe Judgment be furnished to the convict.

35. Also send a.copy of the Judgment to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur,
Tezpur as per ‘provision of section 365 Cr.P.C. and a copy to the District Legal
Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

36. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 20"
day of November, 2019.

(I. Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 14
APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses.

1. PWi1 : Victim

2. PW2 : Sri Dandaram Das,

3. PW3 : elder brother of the victim

4. PW4 : Sri Ramesh Pasowan, VDP Secretary

5. PW5 : Dr. Rika Engtipi, M.O.

6. PW6 : Smti Jamuna Tanti

7. PW7 : SI Dandadhar Kumar, 1.0.
Exhibits.
Ext. 1 : Victim's statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext. 2 : FIR
Ext. 3 : Medico legal report
Ext. 4 : Sketchmap
Ext. 5 ; Charge sheet.

(I.Barman)

Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Spl (POCSO) Case No .92 of 2018 Page 15
