IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaiji,
ENO. 1 2
U/S 8 of POCSO Act.

(G.R. Case No. 518/2015(GMK); Gogamukh P.S, Case No.115/2015 u/s 354 (B) LP.C.
read with Section-4 of POCSO Act),

The State of Assam
~ Versus —
Shri Dhan Rajbonshi,
S/O Boluram Rajbonshi,
Vill. Panchmile,
P.S. Gogamukh,
Dist.- Dhemaji. eressecesseeeeeesACCUSEd Person

Committing Magistrate : Shri P.C. Kalita,
Chief Judicial Magistrate,

Dhemaji.
Appearance:
Shri A. Fogla, Public Prosecutor oekeccseeaee For the State
Shri L. Buragohain, Advocate nnn. For the Accused

Dates of prosecution evidence ; 06-11-2015, 22-06-2015, 18-01-2016,

19-02-2016, 31-08-2016, 30-11-2016
and 30-10-2017.

Date of argument : 18-02-2019,

Date of Judgment : 08-03-2019.
JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 22-06-2015
complainant- Shri Dik Bahadur Chetry lodged an ejahar with Gogamukh
Police Station alleging interalia that on that day i.e. on 22-06-2015 in the
morning at about 7 AM while his minor daughter -Smti ‘X’ (real name
withheld) aged about 12 years went to the grocery shop of the accused to
buy some articles, then accused-Dhan Rajbonshi forcibly pulled her into his
shop and tried to commit rape on her by removing her wearing clothes. It is
also stated in the ejahar that the victim somehow managed to escape from
the clutch of the accused and came to her house and then she reported the
matter immediately to her family members.

a On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused person u/s 354 (B) of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of the
POCSO Act.

3. It appears from record that police submitted charge sheet
against the accused u/s 354 B IPC R/W sec 4 of POCSO Act but, at the time
of framing charge my predecessor passed order to the effect that there are
materials against the accused u/s 354B IPC and then sent down the record to
the court of magistrate but again in the court of magistrate 1* class during
examination of witnesses it was revealed that the victim was aged about 12
years and there was statement of the victim that the accused
physically/sexually abused her and hence the Ld. Court below committed the
case to this court holding that the evidence on record attracts section 7 of
POCSO Act. Accordingly on receipt of the case record and after considering
the material on record charge u/s 8 of POCSO Act framed and read over and
explained to the accused to which the accused pleaded not guilty. Defence
adduced evidence of two Witnesses. Further it may be mention that during
trial before Sessions Court prosecution tendered the evidence recorded by
the trial court and defence cross-examined the victim (PW4) and Complainant
(PW1). Prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined 9 witnesses. At the
closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused person was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. It also appears from
record that defence examined two DWs. However, prosecution did not further
cross-examined the DWs during trial in Sessions Court.

4. Point for determination :
(1) That you, on 22-06-2015 at about 6.30 AM with sexual
intention touched breast of Smti ‘X’ , a child and also tried to remove
her pant inside your shop situated at Pachmile under Gogamukh P.S.
and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 8 of POCSO
Act.

5 I have gone through the evidence on record and heard

arguments of both sides.

 

6. PW1 Dig Bahadur Chetry is the complainant as well as
father of the victim. He deposed that occurrence took place inside the shop-
house of the accused on 22-06-2015 at about 6/7 AM. On that day his
daughter Smt. ‘X’ went to the shop of the accused to bring sugar and khata
book. His daughter came back home weeping and told them that accused
dragged her into his shop and abused her physically. When she tried to flee
away, accused removed her panty. At that time he was in the field. His wife
informed him about the occurrence and then he came home. On being asked
his daughter told that while she went to the shop of the accused to buy sugar
and khata book, he caught hold of her hand and dragged her into his shop
house, touched her breasts and tried to do bad act with her. But, she
somehow managed to escape from the clutch of the accused. He went to his
(accused) shop and asked him about the occurrence. Then accused denied it.
Village people gathered there and they informed the matter at the police
Station. Police came and took the accused to the police station. He filed the
case prior to examination of his daughter medically by Dopctor. Police seized
the wearing clothes of the victim. Ext.1 is the eajahar and Ext.1(1) is his
signature. Ext.2 is the Seizure list and Ext.2(1) is his signature. M.Ext.1 is the
clothes of the victim.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that they are living for 6/7
years as neighbours. Accused’s shop is near the road. Accused is a married
man. He does not know whether the family of the accused live on the
backside of the shop. He denied the defence suggestion that as his relation
with the accused is not good so he along with other persons broke down the
shop of the accused. He denied that to fit fat the grudge of a different case,
he has given false evidence against the accused. In his further re-cross-
examination PW1 stated that there is a shop of an old lady at a little distance
of the place of occurrence. He does not know whether the said shop of the
old lady was open or not. Many people of Nepali Community used to live
near the place of occurrence. There was no other shop in the place of
occurrence. He also denied that he has given false evidence.

7. PW2 Smti Kalpana Chetry is the mother of the deceased.
She deposed that the ccurrence took place about 4 months ago in the
morning at abut 6:30 AM. On that day her daughter Smt ‘X’ went to
accused’s shop to buy sugar and khata book. Her daughter came home
weeping, and told her that accused forcibly dragged her into his shop and
touched her breast and when she tried to flee away from his clutch, he put
off her pant. She somehow managed to escape from accused's clutch. The
girl became senseless. She informed her husband. Then her husband and
villager went to accused's shop. Accused first denied the fact. Later on, police
was informed. Then Police brought the girl to the police station and police
sent her to the hospital for medical examination.
In cross-examination PW2 stated that they had good relation
with the accused prior to the date of occurrence. Accused called her daughter
as ‘Bhanti’ (sister). Accused’d family resides near his shop. Now, accused's
shop remained closed. There is a gate in front of the shop.People destroyed
the articles of the shop. It is visible the inside of the shop from the road.
There is back door of the shop. The shop is visible from her house. The gate
of the shop was closed. The accused gave articles to the victim girl by
opening the window of the shop. The victim girl became senseless for half an
hour after the occurrence. Villagers gathered at the place of occurrence
within half an hour. The gaonburha was not called as he was absent at his
home. The people questioned the accused-Dhan and broke down the articles
in the shop. The accused was absent at his home after the occurrence. There
were the houses of Renu Upadhyay, Geeta, Amar Sahu etc. near the house of
the accused.

8. PW3 Shri Tak Bahadur Chetry stated that complainant is his
younger brother. He knows the accused. Occurrence took place 3 months ago
at about 5/6 AM. He was sleeping in his home after performing his night duty.
His daughter informed him that people gathered at the shop belongs to the
accused. He got to know about the incident after coming to the road. He
heard that accused misbehaved the victim. Public questioned him (accused).
Police took the accused to the police station and people also brought the
victim to the police station. Police got her medically examined.

In cross-examination PW3 stated that he had not seen the
occurrence but heard it only. People say that accused is a person of bad
character. He had not seen the girl when he arrived at the place of
occurrence. He had not seen the mother of the victim calling the gaonburha
about the occurrence. When he went there, 10% of the shop was broken
condition. Police cited their family members as witnesses. There was a gate
in front of the shop and having a wooden window of the shop.
9. PW4 Smti ‘x’ (victim) identified the accused in the dock.
Her evidence is that on 22-06-2015 at about 6 A she went to accused's shop
to buy sugar and khata book. Accused gave her sugar and then asked her
what kind of khata book she wanted to buy. She replied that plain khata
book is required for her. Then accused caught hold of her hands and
dragged her into his shop through the window and touched her breast. She
shouted. She wanted to flee away, but accused tried to put off her pant. She
managed to get rid and came home weeping and told her mother about the
incident. She became senseless and she regained her senseless at medical.
Earlier she stated about the incident in the Court. Ext.3 is the statement
given by her in the court and Ext.3(1) is her signature therein.

In cross-examination PW4 stated that she called the accused
as ‘Dada (brother). He behaved her as ‘Bhanti’ (sister). She went to his
shop on earlier occasions also. When she went to the shop the bamboo
shutter of the shop was closed. She denied the defence suggestion that she
has given false evidence as tutored by her mother. In her further re-cross
examination PW4 stated that at the relevant time of occurrence the wife of
the accused was sleeping along with her children in their house attached to
the shop. Her family members broke down the shop of the accused after the
occurrence. She denied that at the time of occurrence wife of accused was
not sleeping. It is also denied that the accused did not do anything to her.

10. PWS Smti Geeta Sarmah stated that she knows the
complainant- Dik Bahadur Chetry as well as the accused Dhan Rajbongshi.
Occurrence took place about 9 months back at about 7 AM. There is a shop
of the accused on the roadside (Pachmile). On the day of occurrence victim ‘x’
went to accused’s shop to buy sugar and khata book. Accused pulled her
inside his shop, touched her breast and tried to do bad act with her, but she
somehow managed to escape from the clutch of the accused and told about
the incident to her mother. Hearing hue and cries she came out from her
om

\°

wv"

wig,

house and saw that people gathered there. On being asked the girl, she
(PWS)told that accused touched her breast, put off her pant and tried to do
bad thing. Later on police came and took the accused to the police Station.
Police took the victim to the court. Police questioned her. Police also seized
the wearing clothes of the victim vide ext.2, seizure list and Ext.2(1) is her
signature. After the incident their children also afraid of going to school.

In cross-examination PW5 stated that there is no other shop
near the shop of the accused. She heard about the incident only. There was
more than 100 persons gathered at the P.O. The village gaonburha was not
present there. She had no enmity with the accused or his family members.
the family members of the accused.

it: PW6 Smti Renuka Upadhyay stated that she knows the
complainant Dik Bahadur Chetry as well as accused Dhan Rajbongshi. There
was a shop of accused in front of his house. Occurrence took place on 22-
06-2015 in the morning at about 7 AM in the accused’s shop. Hearing hue
and cries he went out and saw many people gathered there and daughter of
Dik Bahadur was weeping there. On being asked the girl, she told that she
went to accused’s shop to buy sugar and khata book and then accused
touched upon her body and tried to do bad thing with her by removing her
clothes. Police took the accused and the victim to the police station. Police
recorded her statement.

12. PW7 Smti Hima Chetry stated that she knows the
complainant Dik Bahadur Chetry as well as accused- Dhan Rajbongshi.
Occurrence took place about 6/7 months back in the morning at about 7 AM.
Her house is situated near the house of complainant. Hearing hue and cries
he went to the house of complainant. Complainant's daughter (victim) told
that while she went to accused’s shop to buy some articles then he pulled her
into his shop, touched her breast and attempted to do bad act with her by
removing her clothes. People gathered in front of the accused’s shop. On
getting information police arrived at the PO and took accused to the police
Station. Police did not question her. Police took her signature.

13. PW8 Dr. Nil Charan Kachari stated that on 22-06-2015 he
examined Smti ‘xX’ (victim) at Gogamukh CHC vide GD Entry No.4/15 of
Gogamukh Police station. The girl was escorted by UBC Pinki Tirky. On
examination he found no injury of sexual assault or internal injury upon her
body. Ext.3 is the injury report and ext.3(1) his signature.

Defence declined to cross-examine the Doctor.

14. PW9 Shri Prafulla Saikia stated that On 22-06-2015 he was
working as 2™ Officer at Gogamukh police station. On that day one Dik
Bahadur Chetry filed an enajar before the O/C Gogamukh police station and
accordingly the same was registered as Gogamukh PS Case No.115/15 u/s
354B IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted him (PW-9) with the
investigation of the case. During investigation he got the victim medically
examined. He also visited the PO, drew sketch map of the PO and recorded
statements of the witnesses. He arrested the accused and forwarded him to
the court. He collected the medical report. On completion of investigation, he
submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 354B IPC R/W section 4
POCSO Act. Ext.4 is the sketch map and Ext4(1) is his signature. Ext.5 is the
charge sheet submitted by him and Ext.5(1) is his signature. Ext.2 is the
seizure list and Ext.2(3) is his signature. M. Ext.1 is the seized clothes which
was seized by him (PW9).

In cross-examination PW9 stated that in Ext-4 he did not take
the signature of neighbours- Harekrishna Rajbonshi and Sadhu Ghosh. He
denied that he submitted Charge-sheet without proper investigation.

15. DW-1 Shri Lekhan Das stated that on 22-06-2015 at about 6
AM he went to the shop of the accused situated at Panchmile. Accused’s
house is attached with the shop on the road towards NHPC. On that day, he
0
ie

saw a Girl leaving the shop taking some articles. He also going away from the
shop taking some goods. Later, he heard that accused was assaulted for
committing rape on the girl (victim) and people broke down his (accused)
shop. He did not see the gaonburha at the P.O. Family members of the victim
girl were present there. False case has been lodged against the accused.

In cross- examination DW1 stated that accused called him to
depose evidence in the court. His house is at a distance of 6/7 houses of the
village. On that day, he went to the shop to buy surf, soap etc. When he
went to the shop, there was no other person. He does not know that whether
any incident was happened that took place before he going to the shop. Later,
he came to know that something was happened there.

16. DW2 Shri Tulendra Hazarika stated that on 22-06-2015 in
the morning at about P AM after getting-up from the bed, he saw that many
people gathered near the shop of the accused. On asking he knew that one
person assaulted the accused. His house is at the backside of the house of
the accused. He heard that accused committed rape on a little girl (victim)
aged about 10 years. At that time the girl was standing on the road along
with a bi-cycle. Accused house is attached to the said shop. He does not think
that accused committed such offence. False allegation has been raised
against the accused. People had broken the shop and the house of the
accused. Accused’s wife and his daughter used to stay in that house.

In cross-examination DW2 stated that his house is situated at a
distance of about 5 Meter from the house of the accused. He does not know
whether the occurrence took place or not. He stated that he came alone to
the Court.

Appreciation of evidence :
17. From the discussion of the evidence it appears that prosecution
examined the victim as PW4. The victim in her evidence stated that on the
10

date of occurrence at about 6 AM she has gone to accused Dhan Rajbongshi's
shop to buy khata book and sugar. Accused gave her the sugar and then he
asked her what type of khata book she wanted. Then she replied that she
wanted plain khata book. At that point of time accused caught hold of her
hand and dragged her into his room through the window of his shop. She
also stated that accused touched her breast. Further she stated that she
raised alarm and when tried to escape accused attempted to remove her
underwear. She also stated that she somehow freed herself and ran away.
Victim’s statement was recorded u/s 164 Cr.PC and in her statement u/s 164
Cr.PC victim has given similar statement as she has done in her evidence
during trial. PW1, the complainant in her evidence stated that on 22-06-2015
at about 6/7 AM her daughter went to Dhan Rajbongshi’s shop to purchase
sugar and Khata books. After a while her daughter returned home crying. On
being asked her daughter told him that accused physically abused her by
touching her breast and also removed her underwear with intent to commit
sexual assault. PW3 and PW5 stated that on the relevant date the victim had
gone to the accused’s shop to buy some articles and she returned home
crying. On hearing hulla they came to the PO and heard that the accused
physically abused the victim. PWS, PW6 and PW7 stated that they heard
about the incident from the mother of the victim.

In the cross-examination defence elicited from the victim that
when she went to the shop it was half closed and accused's wife was
sleeping along with her children in the house attached to the shop. However,
victim denied that the accused did not commit the offence. PW1 in her cross
examination stated that there is another shop near the shop of the accused.
He also stated that he cannot say whether said shop was open. PW1 also
stated that it was an area dominated by Nepali population . Both PW1 and
PW4 also stated that immediately after the incident the local people
destroyed the shop of the accused and the accused left that place.
11

18. I have carefully considered the evidence brought on record by
the prosecution side. From the oral evidence of the victim as well as other
witnesses it is found that all the witnesses have unequivocally stated that on
the date of occurrence at the relevant time victim went to the shop of the
accused to buy some articles and the accused physically/sexually abused her
by touching her breast/body and by attempting to commit rape by removing
her clothes. The victim has given categorical account of the incident. So far
as medical evidence is concerned doctor did not find any injury of sexual
assault of internal injury on the body of the victim. However, taking into
consideration all the materials fact and having regard to the rules of evidence
I am of the opinion that though the doctor did not find any kind of injury on
the person of the victim, in the facts and circumstances of the case I find it
difficult to disbelieve or discard the credible evidence of PWs. It is not in
dispute that the victim is a minor aged 12 years as per her statement which
is also mentioned in the medical report.

19, Coming to the evidence of DWs we find that DW1 in her
evidence stated that on the relevant date she saw one minor girl leaving the
shop of the accused after buying articles. DW1 also stated that she heard
that the minor girl was tried committed rape by the accused. At the same
time DW1 stated that false case has been filed against the accused. DW2 has
given similar evidence.

20. Having considered the evidence in its entirety I find that
prosecution evidence is reliable and convincing and it over weighs the
defence evidence. It is a case under POCSO Act. Section 29 says:

Presumption as to certain offences.—'Where a
person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting
to commit any offence under sections 3,5,7 and section 9 of this
Act, the Special Court shall presume, that such person has
12

committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as
the case may be unless the contrary is proved.’

21. Having considered the evidence and fact materials I find that
prosecution evidence constitutes an offence u/s 7 of POCSO Act which
reads:

Sexual Assault.—Whoever, with sexual intent touches
the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child
touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any
other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which
involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit
sexual assault.’

22. In view of what has been discussed above I find that

prosecution has been able to prove an offence u/s 8 of POCSO Act against
accused Dhan Rajbongshi beyond all reasonable doubt.

ORDER:
23. In the result I find the accused Dhan Rajbongshi guilty u/s 8
of the POCSO Act. Accordingly he is convicted thereunder.
24. Heard the accused person on the point of sentence u/s 235 (2)
Cr.PC.
25. It is submitted that the accused is a poor man having wife and

a minor child and he is the only earning member of his family. So he pleaded
for mercy.
26. Considering all the aspect the accused is sentenced to R.I. for

3(three) years and to pay a fine of Rs.2000/-(two thousand) i/d. R.I. for
another 1(one) month,

27. Issue jail warrant.

28. Set off the period of detention.
13

29. A copy of judgment free of cost be given to the accused.

30. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
31. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 08"
day of March,2019.

lor

S. Das )

Obra) aj.
13

p tion Wit
P.W.- 1 - Dig Bahadur Chetry,
P.W.-2 - Smt Kalpana Chetry,
P.W.-3 -Tak Bahadur Chetry,
P.W.-4 - Smti ‘X’ (victim),
P.W.-5 - Smti Geeta Sarmah
P.W.-6 - Smti Renuka Upadhyay
P.W.-7 - Smti Hima Chetry
P.W.-8 - Dr. Nil Charan Kachari,
P.W.-9 - Prafulla Saikia,
Defence Witnesses: -

D.W.1- Lekhan Das
D.W.2- Tulendra Hazarika

Prosecution Exhibits
Exhibit-1 - Ejahar,
Exhibit 1(1) — - Signature of Dig Bahadur Chetry,
Exhibit 2 - Seizure list,
Exhibit 2(1)  - Signature of Dig Bahadur Chetry.
Exhibit 2(2)  - Signature Smt Geeta Sarmah,
Exhibit 2(3) — - Signature Prafulla Saikia, 10.
Exhibit 3 - statement of victim .
Exhibit-3(1)  - Signatures of victim,
Exhibit 4 - Sketch map,
Exhibit-4(1) — - Signature of Prafulla Saikia,
Exhibit 5 - charge sheet
Exhibit5 (1)  - Signature of Prafulla Saikia,
ial Exhibits:
M.Exhibit-1  — clothes of the victim,
Defence Exhibits :- None. fs?
SB)

wae
