 

—

specs Zein
\ age os!

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON.

SPECIAL (POCSO)CASE NO. 58(N) OF 2016

PRESENT : Smti. R. Kar,
Special Judge,

Nagaon

State of ASSAM —haaseeeeeeeeeees Complainant

Juwakin Tirki  aaeeaeeee Accused Person

ADVOCATES WHO APPEARED IN THIS CASE

For the Complainant :Sri M.Neog,

Special Public Prosecutor.

For the accused > Sri Rafique Ullah,

Legal Aid Counsel.

Date of evidence of PWs : 18-01-2017, 31-07-2017,
20-10-2017, 03-11-2017,

27-03-2018.
Date off Argument : 24-07-2018
Date of Judgment : 08-08-2018
J UDG M EN T

ea. The prosecution case as unfolded from the FIR is that
"on 04-05-2016, informant Smti. Ilivina Kispotta W/O Akash Kispotta

ts,
Sea
Re ce

 

of Podumoni Basti, Purana Salona, district Nagaon lodged an FIR
before the In-Charge of Salonah P.P. under Samaguri P.S. alleging that
her related uncle-in-law, Juwakin Tirki took her 8 months son to his
house at 8 a.m., and by holding both the arms of her son, accused
inserted his male organ in his mouth and was sexually exploited,
then on hearing crying of his small baby, she rushed to the house
of accused and found the accused in half strip from his waist. On
seeing such situation of her son she felt it a serious incident and tear
outbrust from her eyes and for about 30 second she stood still at

that place and saw ejeculated semen sticking into the face of her

i g son and then gathering courage she lifted her son in her lap from the
A
2 “use, accused and flinched out from the room. Then she saw the wife of
epee pesom the accused at the well plate and going near to her elaborately
Nad

narrated about the incident. Thereafter she came to her house and
told the incident to all available family members of the house and
also to their neighbours and thereafter shifted her son to

Simanabasti Hospital for his treatment. Hence, the F.LR.

2. On basis of the said FIR, the In-Charge, Salonah PP.
made the Salonah P.P. GDE No.52 dated 04 05-2016 and forwarded it
to Officer-in-Charge Samaguri for registering a case. Accordingly the
Officer-in-Charge of Samaguri P.S. registered Samaguri P.S. Case
No.202/16 u/s 4 of POCSO Act/2012 and police started usual
investigation thereon. Upon completion of the investigation police
laid charge sheet U/s. 4 of POCSO Act against the accused Juwakin
Tirki.

3. On being produced the accused person was furnished
with all the necessary copies as required U/S 207 of Cr.P.C by that
court. Subsequently, after hearing both sides and perusing relevant

materials a formal charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act was framed
against accused Juwakin Tirki and same was read over and explained

 

o to him to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During trial of the case, prosecution side examined 6
witnesses including the Medical Officer and the Investigating Officer.
The accused person was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Defense adopted

plea of denial and examined none.
5. | have heard argument advanced by both sides.
6. Point for decision:-

i) Whether on 04-05-2016 at about 8 a.m. the accused
has committed penctrative sexual assault on the 8 months old male
child of the complainant by pentrating his penis in the mouth of the
. child and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of the
special : ea ~~ POCSO Act. ?

7. Discussion , decision and reasons thereof :-

Before entering into the discussion, the gist of the

prosecution evidence ts laid down below:

PW 1, (complainant) has deposed that incident took
place on 04-05-2016 at about 8 a.m. On that day, in the morning the
son of Juwakin, namely, Isak came to their house and wanted to take
her 8 months son. Then she told him that she is feeding milk to her
son and as such, now, she cannot give him. Subsequently her
husband taking the son went towards the road, then from her
husband, the wife of Juwakin took her son to their house. After some
time, she heard cyring sound of her son and as such she ran to the
house of Juwakin and saw that Juwakin was putting in and out his
male organ into the mouth of her son. Looking this she stopped a
moment there and then she took her baby in her lap. She found her

son's face, chest sticked with semen and was wetted. She told the

 
cal 9
gpedl®
wage

 

yages

z

~ accused that she has become offended by his act. Thereafter she

came to the wife of Juwakin and told about the incident. Wife of
Juwakin came to Juwakin and told something to him. She further
deposed that then she came back to her house with her baby and
narrated the incident to her mother-in-law. Thereafter she along with
her mother-in-law took her son to Hospital and from there she went
to Police Station and one man wrote the ejahar where she put her
signature. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Fxt.1(1) is her signature. Police
recorded her statement and produced her before Court and caused
her statement recorded. Ext.2 is her statement and Ext.2(1), 2(2),

2(3), 2(4) and 2(5) are her signatures.

PW 2 Deben Kujur has deposed that he knows the complainant
and the accused and they are from their village. Incident took place
on 4° of May last year. At the time of incident he was at his
residence. During day time at about 11 a.m. he heard from the
garden people that Juwakin committed bad act by inserting his male

organ into the mouth of complainant's son.

PW 3, Kusha Nayak turned hostile to the prosecution.

PW 4, Dr. Imran Hussain deposed that on 03-05-2016 he was
serving as S.M. & H.O. at Simonabasti PHC Nagaon, Assam and on
that day at around 10.30 a.m. he examined the victim, aged 8
months, male, S/O PW 5 of village Purana Salonah, P.S. Samaguri in
reference to 2202/2016 on police requisition and on being escorted

and identified by Ibrahim Ali UBC 65.

On examiantion no external injury was noticed. Location of the
body over oral cavily or face. Fxt.3 is his report and Ext.3(1) is his

Signature.

PW 5, father of victim has deposed that complainant ts

his wife and accused Juwakin Tirki is his neighbour. Incident took

 
 

¢ place 1 year ago in the morning at about 8 a.m. and at that time he

went to Amoni for his work. At about 9 a.m. his wife called him over
phone to the house. He instantaneously returned home and then his
wife told him that Juwakin Tirki inserted his male organ into their 8
months small son. Thereafler finding the health condition of their son
unwell, his wife took him to a doctor and subsequently lodged ejahar

at the police station.

PW 6, Biju Kingkar Basumatary is the investigating Officer of

this case.

8. Mr. M.Neog, the learned Special Public Prosecutor
appearing for the State submitted that the evidence adduced by the
prosecution witnesses, more particularly PW 1 clearly establishes the
case of the prosecution. Learned Special PP. further argued that this
is a bizarre incident and as such law should be stringent against such
offence. He submitted that PW 1 is the mother of the victim and was
the eye witness of the case. He further submitted that the
discrepancy in the evidence are in fact only minor inconsistencies
which otherwise cannot be the basis for rejecting the credibility of
the prosecution evidence. He thus submits that from a perusal of the
evidence led by the prosecution, it can be clearly seen that the
prosecution have been able to bring home the guilt of the accused
person and considering the heinous crime having committed by him
the accused must be convicted and appropriate sentence be

awarded.

9. The learned legal aid counsel Sri Rafique Ullah on the
other hand, refuting the argument of the learned Special PP,
submitted that the evidence of PW 1 having not been corroborated
by other witnesses as such conviction of accused cannot be
sustained solely on the testimony of PW 1. He further submits that
the evidences led by PW 1, the mother of the victim do not have
any evidentiary value for convicting the accused in as much as her

Statement in the FIR) she submitted and her deposition before the

 
   

Nagaon +

dge,

ssain

'S)

Court are absolutely contradictory. He argued that in the FIR

complainant has not mentioned the date of incident while in
examination-in-chief she mentioned the date of incident as 04-05.
2016. Mr. Rafique Ullah further pointed out that PW 1 in her cross-
examination admitted that in the statement before the Police and
the statement before the Magistrate she mentioned the date of
incident as 03-05-2016 and on the same day after attending a doctor
she went to the Police Station and lodged the FIR. The learned legal
aid counsel further argued that in the cross-examination, PW 1
stated that who had taken the baby from her husband she did not
know and thus no chain of link can be establised that the son of the
complainant was taken to the house of accused person and
committed the offence. He further argued that many new things has
been disilcosed in the evidence of PW 1. which are not in the FIR and
thus there is an improvement in the evidence of PW 1. The learned
counsel further argued that the investigation done by the 1.0., was
most perfunctory in as much as the 1.0. did not seize the alleged
cloth with which the semen were swept from the face of the baby.
The medical report also does not reflect anything about the presence
of semen in the mouth of the victim thus there is inconsistency,
more particularly on the occular evidence and the medical evidence.
The defence further argued that though: there is eye witness but the
medical evidence recedes in the background. He further argued that
when the eye witness is totally inconsistent with the medical
evidence there is no reason to believe that the evidence of occular
witness. Therefore, conviction of the accused under such

circumstances is not sustainable.

10. Now let us appreciate evidence on record how far the

prosecution witnesses is able success in this case.

From the evidence ted by the prosecution, it can be
seen from the evidence of PW 1 (Complainant) that on the relevant
day at about 8 a.m. in the morning, the son of Juwakin, namely, Isak

came to their house and wanted to take her 8 months son but PW 1

 

 
 

did not allow him to take as she was feeding milk to her son. After
some time PW 5 taking his son in his lap went out to road side, then
wife of Juwakin took her son to their house. After sometime, PW 1
heard cry of her said son and rushed to the house of Juwakin and
Saw that Juwakin was putting in and out of his male organ into the
mouth of her son. Seeing such act of the accused, PW 1 was shocked
and restless for a second and then took her baby in her lap and
notice the face of her son covered with wetty semen. Subsquently,
PW 1 told the incident to the wife of Juwakin at the outside well and

then to her house-hold members at her house.

In the cross-examination PW 1 categorically stated that
while her husband was with their son in road, the accused person
took her son to their house. PW 1 stated in her cross-examination
that she had not seen by whom her child was taken to the house of
accused from her husband. It appears that PW 1 is a house-wife and
as such she have to perform lot of work at their house and as such
cannot keep her son in her lap at all the time. Thus it is an inherent
probability that she has not seen by whom her son was taken to the
house of accused but she confirmed that her son was taken to the
house of accused. PW 17 in her cross-examination stated that they
have visiting terms with the house of accused and they used to take
her baby to their house on earlier occasion also. Thus it appears that
there 1s no any pre-alarming situation to draw the neighbours or
others people at the time of occurrence. The victim being a eight
months old baby raised his complaint by crying and on hearing
sound of crying, PW 1 ran there and saw the incident. PW 1 further
affirmed in her cross-examination that she saw Juwakin sitting in his
house by holding her son in his lap and Juwakin was wearing a
‘Gamucha'. PW 1 has categorically stated in her cross-examination
that she saw semen in the face of her son and swept the semen but
Same had not been shown to police by her or seized by the police.
Now learned Legal Aid Counsel! has argued that the complainant (PW
1) in her evidence has stated that she found Juakin inside his house

and he was sitting by taking the baby in his lap and as such it cannot

 
eg

2

* a} Vai
al e
enecia he

)

ta! a a Ko
Nagaon *

    

wm

es 16 4

ait

 

“s bé believed that the accused has performed such act. Now, the

ae

complainant has not vividly described in her evidence in what exact
position she found the accused. It is in the course of cross-
examination she stated that she found the accused in sitting position
by taking her baby in his lap. It is not at all impossible that in sitting
position accused would not be able to do such act as alleged . Mere
non-mentioning of exact position in which she found the accused
does not render her testimony untrustworthy. PW 5, the husband of
the complainant (PW 1) has confirmed that his son was taken to the
house of Juwakin by his(accused) daughter. Thus fact is established

that the incident took place in the house of the accused Juakin Tirki.

PW 1 and PW 5 stated that on the day of incident, their son
was taken to the doctor finding him unwell. The incident occurred on
03-05-2016 at about 8 a.m. From the report of the doctor (PW 4) it
appears that he examined the son of PW 1 and PW 5 on the relevant
date and time and noticed no external injury over oral cavity or face.
The report of the doctor affirmed that he examined the victim in
respect of the oral cavity/ face of the baby as complained by the
mother of the victim. There was no any complaint of injury or
abrasion of the baby and as such in his cross-examination he found
the baby in normal state and appearance. Thus the nature of finding
of the doctor on victim is similar to the statements made by the
prosecution witnesses, more particularly PW 1. PW 1 stated in her
evidence stated that she has swept off the semen stick from the face
of her son, as such there is no question of finding semen on the face
of the baby. Had the baby been examined for any other health
problem, the finding of the doctor would be different.PW 3 (Kusha
Nayak) before parting hostile lent support to the extent that quarrel
took place betwen the complainant and the accused for the son of
the complainant. Defence has failed to shake the credibility of PW 1

although she was cross-examined at length.

The omission of date of offence in the FIR) cannot be

treated as fatal for prosecution case. PW 1 has mentioned the date

 
  

Se 8
special Jucg
nagaon = ASS

e,

aim

0

of offence as 04-05-2016 in her deposition and in her statements
before the police and Magistrate has mentioned the date of
occurrence as 03-05-2016 which is common human error and that
level of memory differs from person to person and for such variation

evidence of PW 1 could not be throw out in toto.

From the evidence PW 6 (1.0.) it appears that immediately
after the incident, father of the victim at about 9.30 a.m. informed
over phone that accused Juwakin Tirki inserted his male organ into
the 7 months son and accordingly he entered the Salna PP. GD.
Entry No.38 dated 03-05-2016 vide Ext.4. He found the accused
Juwakin Tirki confined by the peopie of the locality and he took him
in their custody and drew the sketch map vide Ext.5. Thus from Ext.4
(Extract copy of GD Entry) it is evident that immedaitely after the
incident PW 5 informed the matter to the police station over phone.
It appears from the evidence of proseculion that there was no
inimical relationship between the accused person and complainant
and they have visiting terms and as such there is no reason why
they should tell lie involving their 8 months old child with such dirty
matter. PW 1 is a innocent common house wife and is not legally
conscious to produce the cloth before the police for the interest of
investigation as such she left uncare of the said cloth. Thus the
testimony of PW 1 is wholly reliable . When the incident of the fact is
proved by the PW 1, PW 2 and PW 5, coupled with Ext.4 (GD entry) in
such a situation minor inconsistencies cannot be a ground to

disbelieve the prosecution case.

Now the accused in his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C has
simply denied the fact and stated that before logding the FIR he was
beaten by the family members of the complainant but the accused

has not given any defence evidence in support of his plea.

11. From the evidence it is established that the accused is a
pervert and did not spare a baby of 8 months to fulfill his carnal

desire. Considering the evidence and materials on record, | have

 

 
10

arrived at the finding that the prosecution has succeeded to bring
home the charge against accused Juwakin Tirki u/s 4 of the POCSO
Act beyond all reasonable doubt and accordingly he is convicted

under the section.

12. Considering the nature of offence and facts and
circumstances of the case, | am not inclining to extend any benefit
either under the provision of Probation of Offender Act or u/s 360
Cr.P.C.

13. Sentence hearing: | have heard the accused person on

the point of sentence. His statement on sentence hearing is recorded

= in separate sheet and kept with the case record. Accused person has
és sae prayed for showing leniency on sentence.
a
S90 Qo poem
gon **
Nase

14. Sentence :.- Considering all aspects, accused Juwakin Tirki is
sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for / (seven) years
and also to pay fine of Rs.10,000/ in default R.I. for another 6 (six)

months for Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

Period of detention already undergone be set off as per

provision of Section 428 of Cr.P.C.

The accused person be sent to judicial custody to serve
the sentence passed against him. Issue imprisonment custody

warrant accordingly.

Seized articles, if any be destroyed in due course of law.

Furnished copy of the judgment free of cost to tre

accused person.

Send a copy of the judgment to learned District

Magistrate of Nagaon u/s 365 Cr.P.C.
|

Given under my hand and seal of this court, | have
signed and delivered this Judgment on this 8 day of August, 2018 at
Nagaon.

= 2-8 48
(R.Kar )
Special Judge,
Special Judge,
Nagabft ¢488am
Dictated & corrected by me.
“TF 2-818
( R.Kar )
Special Judge,
Special fudge.

Nagdasam

NIAC
Nay

Dictation taken & transcribed by
fer KBSfiLorse
(Nipen Rajkhowa)
Stenographer.

 

 

 
ANNEXURE

Prosecution Witnesses

PW.] PW 1

PW.2 Deben Kujur

PW.3 Susha Nayak

PW.4 Dr. Imran Hussain

PW.5 PW 5

PW.6 Biju Kingkar Basumatary.

Prosecution Exhibits.

yO Be WN He

Pxt dn Fjahar

ExXt2 Statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
EXt3 nn, Medical Report

Pxt.4A 0 GD. f xtract copy

Ext nn, Sketch map.

Ext.6 wo. Charge sheet

Defence Witness.

Nil

Defence Exhibit

Nil

2-84-18
( Smti. R.Kar )
Special Judge
Nagaon:Assah
Magaon i Assaisl

 

 
