DISTRICT: DHUBRI
IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHUBRI

PRESENT: Shri A. Chakravarty, M.A., LL.M., AJS

Special Case No. 34 of 2015

U/S 457/376 IPC, r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act
Corresponding to G.R. No. 990/2015

State of Assam

maT Complainant
Versus
Fazar Ali ... Accused
Charge framed on : 07-12-2015
Evidence recorded on : 28-01-2016, 13-07-2016 & 03-03-2017

Statement recorded on : 17-03-2017
Arguments heard on : 26-04-2017

Judgment delivered on : 11-05-2017

Advocates who appeared in this case are:
Shri Maniruz Zaman, P.P. for the Prosecution

Shri Anowar Hussain, Advocate for the Defence

JUDGMENT

1. This case was registered on 09-03-2015, at Dhubri Police Station, under
Sections 457, 376 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short “the IPC”) r/w Section
4/8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short “the POCSO
Act”), based on a first information report (in short “FIR”) filed by one Sahar Ali

against accused Fazar Ali.
Special Case No. 34 of 2015

2. The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 04-03-2015, at about 01-30
A.M., at village- Bahadurtari, under Dhubri Police Station, taking advantage of the
absence of the informant in his house, the accused Fazar Ali trespassed into his
house by cutting the curtain of the window and committed rape on his minor
daughter (hereinafter referred to as “the victim girl”). The victim girl sustained
injuries on her private parts and starting hitting the bed by her legs. Her mother
then woke up and raised a hue and cry. The accused then fled away but, the public
apprehended him. Therefore, on 09-03-2015 he filed an FIR of the incident with the
Dhubri Police Station. As he was expecting the settlement of the matter in the village
mel (meeting of the village elders) he did not lodge the FIR immediately after the
incident.

3. Based on the FIR, the Officer-in-Charge of the Dhubri Police Station registered
the case No.315/2015 for offences under Sections 457,376 IPC, r/w Section 4/8 of
the POCSO Act and entrusted the Sub-Inspector of Police S. Ahmed to investigate
the case. Accordingly, Sub-Inspector of Police S. Ahmed investigated the case.

4. During the course of investigation, the victim girl was medically examined. Her
statement was recorded by the Magistrate under section 164 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “the CrP.C.”). Statements of several
witnesses were also recorded and after completion of investigation, a charge sheet
was filed for commission of offences punishable under Sections 457,376 IPC, r/w
Section 4/8 of the POCSO Act against the accused Fazar Ali. Hence, this case.

5. During trial, my predecessor framed charges under Sections 457, 376 IPC and
Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused person. When the contents of the
charges were read over and explained to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried.

6. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined seven witnesses. The
accused did not examine any witness.

7. In his examination under section 313 CrP.C., the accused has denied the
prosecution case and has stated that the allegations levelled against him are false

and baseless.
8. The points for determination in this case are:-

I) Whether on 04-03-2015, at about 01-30 A.M., at village- Bahadurtari,

under Dhubri Police Station, the accused Fazar Ali committed lurking house

2
Special Case No. 34 of 2015

trespass by night by entering into the dwelling house of the informant Sahar
Ali after the hour of sun set and before the hour of sun rise with intent to

commit rape on the victim girl?

II) Whether on 04-03-2015, at about 01-30 A.M., at village- Bahadurtari,
under Dhubri Police Station, the accused Fazar Ali committed rape on the

victim girl?

III) Whether on 04-03-2015, at about 01-30 A.M., at village- Bahadurtari,
under Dhubri Police Station, the accused Fazar Ali committed penetrative

sexual assault on the victim girl?

If so, what punishment he deserves?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

9. I have carefully examined the evidence on record, gone through the
relevant documents on record and after hearing the arguments advanced by the

learned counsels for both the sides give my decision on the above points as follows:-

POINT NOS. I, II & III

 

10. As all these points are co-related, all the points are discussed and decided
jointly.

11. ~The victim girl (PW-4) has deposed that she knows the accused. The windows
of their house were covered by jute curtain. On the night of the incident, the
accused trespassed into their house by cutting the curtain of the window, gagged
her by his hands and disrobed her. Thereafter, the accused committed sexual
intercourse with her against her will. She then raised alarm at which her mother
woke up and raised alarm. Her mother tried to catch the accused, but the accused
managed to escape. Her brothers and villagers followed the accused and
apprehended him. After the incident, she became ill and on the next day, she was
taken to the hospital for treatment. Her statement was recorded by Magistrate and

she put thumb impression in the statement.
Special Case No. 34 of 2015

12. In the cross-examination, she has stated that though at the time of the
occurrence, the night was dark, she could identify the accused as the accused lives
eight houses away from their house. Before the said incident, the accused never
came to their house. The accused has a wife and three children. She was sleeping
on the middle. On her either side, her mother and younger brothers were sleeping.
She has denied the suggestion that she has not been suffering from any illness. She
has also denied the suggestion that the accused did not go to their house and did

not commit rape on her.

13. PW-1 Sahar Ali, the informant and the father of the victim girl has deposed
that the accused entered into his house by making opening on the widow, which
was covered with jute curtain and committed rape on the victim girl. Hearing noise,
his wife woke up and raised a hue and cry and tried to catch the accused, but the
accused fled away through the window. His son and the villagers then ran after the
accused and caught him. Thereafter, assuring that the matter will be settled in the
village salish (meeting of the village elders) Dilbor Hussain took away the accused.
In the Village salish, the accused was directed to pay compensation of Rs.50,000/-,
but the accused paid only Rs.10,000/-. The hospital authority refused to treat his
daughter without registration of a criminal case. Therefore, he filed the instant case.
After filing of the case, he had returned the said amount of Rs.10,000/- to the

accused.

14. In the cross-examination, he has stated that he was not present at the time
of the alleged occurrence. Therefore, the PW-1 is not an eye witness of the alleged

incident.

15. PW-2 Saddam Hussain, the brother of the victim girl has deposed that at
around 13:30 hours, cutting the jute curtain of the window of their house, the
accused entered into their house and committed rape on the victim girl. Hearing the
noise, his mother woke up and tried to catch the accused, but the accused managed
to escape. Hearing the hue and cry, the villagers came to their house and with the
help of the villagers, they apprehended the accused. They then informed the uncle
of the accused, namely Dilbor about the matter. Assuring that holding vi/lage me/he
will resolve the matter, Dilbor took away the accused. After the incident, his sister

fell ill and she had to be shifted to the hospital. In the village mel, the accused was
4
Special Case No. 34 of 2015

directed to pay Rs.50,000/-, out of which, the accused had paid only Rs.10,000/-.
Therefore, his father filed the instant case. After filing of the case, they had returned
the Rs.10,000/- to the accused.

16. PW-3 Shamela Khatun, the mother of the victim girl has deposed that on the
day of the alleged occurrence, her husband was not present in their house. At about
13:30 hours, cutting the jute curtain of the window of their house, the accused
trespassed into their house, gagged the victim girl and committed rape on her.
Hearing commotion, she woke up and tried to catch the accused, but the accused
managed to escape. Hearing the hue and cry, the villagers came to their house and
with the help of the villagers, they apprehended the accused. They placed the
matter before the uncle of the accused, namely Dilbor. Assuring that the matter will
be resolved holding a meeting, Dilbor took away the accused. In the meeting the

accused was directed to pay some money and later on her husband filed this case.

17. In the cross-examination, she has stated that she, her two sons and the
victim girl were sleeping in the same room. There was no electricity in their house.
After the incident, twenty/thirty villagers came to their house and they chased the
accused and apprehended him. They were not willing to file the case. They had filed
the case as after the incident, her daughter fell ill. Her daughter has never fallen ill

before the said incident.

18. PW-6 Sopior Ali has deposed that on the day of the occurrence, hearing a
noise in the house of the informant Sahar Ali, he woke up and went to his house.
When he reached the house of Sahar Ali, he saw that the accused was running away
from the house of Sahar Ali. Along with the villagers, he then followed the accused
and apprehended him. They took the accused to the house of Dilbor, the village
headman and thereafter, he went away. He does not know what happened

thereafter.

19. In the cross-examination, he has stated that they apprehended the accused
after following him for about 1 to 1 Y2 k.m. About twenty villagers were following
the accused. He was not aware as to why the accused was running away from the
house of the informant. He was also not aware why the accused had to be

apprehended at that time. The victim girl happens to be his niece and she had been

5
Special Case No. 34 of 2015

suffering from mental disorder. His brother had shifted to the said house few days
before the said incident. The windows of the house were not covered. He does not

know the age of the victim girl.

20. PW-5 Fatik Ali has deposed that he knows the accused. He does not know
about the alleged incident. In the cross-examination, he has stated that the

informant is his son.

21. As can be seen from the above discussion, the case of the prosecution is
simply unbelievable. It is simply unbelievable that a married man, having his wife
and children and who had never been to the house of a neighbour, would one day
suddenly trespassed into the house of the said neighbour cutting the curtain of the
window with intent to commit rape on a minor girl who was sleeping in the middle of
a room with her mother and brothers and will also succeed in committing rape on

her. This is simply unbelievable.

20. Further, though the informant has deposed that after the incident, one Dilbar
took away the accused making promise of settling the matter holding village me/and
in the village mel, the accused was directed to pay Rs.50,000/- as compensation and
the accused also paid an amount of Rs.10,000/- and after filing of the case, the
informant had returned the said amount of Rs.10,000/- to the accused, the
prosecution did not examine any of the villagers who had participated in the said
village me/ to prove the same. The prosecution also did not examine the aforesaid
Dilbor to prove that he had taken away the accused making promise of settling the
matter holding vi/lage me/as alleged. The prosecution also did not examine any of
the villagers, who had allegedly apprehended the accused to prove that the accused

was apprehended after he was fleeing away from the house of the informant.

21. Over and above this, as can be seen from the above discussion, the father of
the informant (the PW-5) did not support the prosecution case. This does not make
any sense and renders the entire prosecution case unbelievable. Why the father of
the informant will not be depose that the accused had committed rape on his
granddaughter if the accused had actually committed rape on his granddaughter?

This is simply unbelievable and no man of common prudence will believe the same.
Special Case No. 34 of 2015

22. In view of the above, I am constrained to hold that prosecution has failed to
bring home the charges levelled against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt
Therefore, the accused must, at least be given the benefit of the doubt. The point is

decided in the negative, accordingly.
ORDER

23. In the result, from the facts and circumstances of the case and above discussion,
I hold that the prosecution has failed to bring home the charges under Sections
457/376 and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012
against accused Fazar Ali beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, I acquit him giving
him the benefit of the doubt. His bail bond stands cancelled. He is set at liberty
forthwith.

24. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on this the 11™ day of May,
2017, at Dhubri.

(A. Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Dhubri

Dictated & corrected by me.

(A. Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Dhubri
APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

PW-1 Saddam Hussain

PW-2 Shamela Khatun

PW-3 Sajida Khatun

PW-4 Fatik Ali

PW-5 Sopior Ali

PW-6 SI Shahab Uddin Ahmed.

2. PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:

Exhibit- 1 FIR

Exhibit- 2 Site Plan

Exhibit-3 Medical Report

Exhibit-4 Statement of the victim girl
Exhibit-5 Charge sheet.
(A.Chakravarty)

Special Judge, Dhubri

Special Case No. 34 of 2015
