IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: KAMRUP(M),
AT GUWAHATI

Sessions Case No. 124/2015
(Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act )

Present: S.P. Moitra,
Sessions Judge
Kamrup(M), Guwahati

State of Assam
- Vs —_

Sri Sri Balen Das
vecenuaeeeeeeas Accused

Appearance for the Parties:

Advocate for the State : Mr. H.K. Deka, Learned Public Prosecutor

Advocate for the accused : Mr. B. Deka, Learned Advocate

Date of recording evidence : 06.03.2016, 08.06.2016, 12.08.2016,
29.09.2016 & 03.03.2017

Date of Argument : 12.07.2017

Date of Judgment : 02.08.2017

JUDGMENT

1. Brief facts of the case of the prosecution, as emerged from the written
FIR (Ext-2) lodged by the informant Nikunja Medhi are that his minor
daughter (name withheld) was studying in Class IX in Holy Child School,

Krishna Nagar, Chandmari, Guwahati and usually he used to drop her at
school at 7:30 a.m., She used to come from school to their home alone at
2:00 p.m. It is alleged that taking that chance, the accused person abused
his minor daughter and on last 20.05.2014 at about 2:10 p.m., when his
daughter was coming back from school, the accused person forcefully
touched his daughter by pulling her umbrella and tried to embrace her on the

road at Krishnanagar near Holy Child School gate.

2. On the basis of the said FIR (Exhibit 2), Chandmari PS Case No.
257/14 was registered U/S 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offence Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as “POCSO Act”) and was taken
up for investigation. In course of investigation, I.0. visited the place of
occurrence, prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence and also
recorded the statements of the witnesses. The statement of the victim was
also recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. before the learned SDJM (II),
Kamrup(M), Guwahati. After completion of the investigation, the I/O
submitted charge-sheet against the accused person U/S 8 of the POCSO Act.

3. Cognizance of the offence was taken under the aforesaid section of
law. The accused person who was on bail entered appearance before this
Court and he was allowed to remain on previous bail. The copies of the
relevant documents were furnished to the accused in compliance to the
provision of section 207 of the Cr.PC. On consideration of charge, charge U/S
8 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused; charge was read over and
explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to face
the trial.

4. To bring home the charge, prosecution examined, aS many as, 5
(Five) witnesses on its behalf and also exhibited five documents. Defense
plea was of complete denial of any guilt, as appears from the trend of cross-
examination, as well as, from the statement of the accused, recorded U/S
313 of the Cr.P.C.. The defence also adduced the evidence of 1 (one) witness

on its behalf, including the evidence of the accused person

5. I heard the argument advanced by the learned counsel for the

parties.
6. Point for determination:

(i) Whether on 20.05.2014, at about 2:10 p.m., at Piyaliphukan
Nagar, Chandmari, the accused person committed sexual

assault on the person of a minor girl ?
Decision and reasons thereof:

ai I have gone carefully through the entire evidence on record both oral
and documentary. For the sake of convenience and brevity the evidence of
the offence on both the points are taken up altogether for discussion and

decisions.

8. PW1 is the alleged victim of the occurrence and her testimony reveals
that on 20.05.2014, at about 2:10 p.m., the occurrence took place on the
main road of Krishnanagar . She testified that at that time she was a student
of Class IX of Holy Child School and she was coming back to her house on
foot. She further testified that she was holding an umbrella to protect her
from sunshine. Her deposition reveals that accused Balen Das used to wait in
a shop regularly by the side of the road and on that day, the accused person
followed her and suddenly dragged her umbrella. She also revealed that
thereafter the accused person touched her cheek and her breast. She added
that she started to cry and went back to her house. She added further that
she told her mother about the occurrence and at about 3:00 p.m., her father
came back from his office and he was reported about the occurrence. She
also added that prior to that her mother had already informed him over
phone. She reveals that thereafter her father lodged the FIR at Chandmari
P.S. and her statement recorded before the Magistrate. She proved Ext-1 as

her statement.

During cross examination, the witness stated that sometimes her
father used to drop her at the school, but added that often she used to go
alone. She also admitted that her house is situated at 1 k.m. away from the
school and 2/3 girls used to go to the school from nearby her house. She
also admitted that for going to her school from her house, there are four

corners and there are shops etc. The witness also stated that in her school,
there are Class KG to Higher Secondary and in her section alone, there were
42 nos. of student. She also stated that nearby their school, there was
Gurukul Jatiya Vidalaya also. She further added that to take their wards, the
parents used to come to the school. She admitted that while giving statement
before the Magistrate, she stated that the accused person had called her by
using the word “Mamu”. She stated that her father was known to all in the

locality. She further admitted that her father is a police personnel.

9. PW2 Smti. Pallabi Medhi is the mother of the victim girl and her
testimony reveals that the incident took place at about 2:10 p.m. on the road
at Chandmari Krishna Nagar. Her testimony reveals that after the school hour,
her daughter was coming back from the school and it was about 2:25 p.m.
and after coming back from the school, her daughter told her that while she
was coming back to the house on foot, the accused person named above,
suddenly came from the back and dragged her umbrella. She added that her
daughter also reported her that the said accused person told the victim
“Mamu you are so beautiful”. She added that thereafter the accused person
touched her cheek and also her breast. She added further that her husband
was not in the house and she informed her husband about the incident over
phone. She stated that her husband came back in the evening and he did not
go to the police station in that evening and on the next day at morning, he

went to the police station to lodge the FIR.

During cross examination, the witnesses admitted that she
accompanied her husband to the police station. The defence brought out
some contradictions in her evidence in comparison to her previous statement
before the I.0., by way giving suggestions to the witness and the witness
admitted the same. She stated that her daughter used to go to the school
alone because her father did not get any time to accompany her. However,
she admitted that she stated before the police that her father used to drop
and to bring his daughter (victim) back from the school. She had stated that
the victim started to cry after coming back to the house and she asked her
about the incident. She stated that her husband came back at 7:00 p.m. She
also stated that her husband lodged the FIR at Chandmari P.S. and she also

went to the police station.
10. PW3 Sri Nikunja Medhi is the informant of the case and he testified
that his daughter, i.e. the victim was the student of Class IX at Holy Child
School. He testified that on 20.05.2014, at about 2:15 p.m., while his
daughter was coming back from the school at Krishna Nagar, the accused
person dragged her umbrella on the road and thereafter told her how
beautiful was she. He added that the accused person also touched her cheek.
He stated that his wife informed him about the occurrence over phone. His
further testimony is that after getting the information, he could not come
back immediately because he was on duty and came back in the house at
night. He added that after coming back in the house he asked the victim and
his wife about the incident and thereafter lodged an FIR at Chandmari P.S. He
proved Ext-2 as the FIR. This witness also stated that he know the accused

person from before.

During cross examination, the witness admitted that he used to
accompany his daughter to school everyday. He further admitted that he
could come to know about the occurrence at about 3:00 p.m. from his wife.
He added that he was PSO to SP Bibekananda Das at the relevant point of
time. He also stated that he informed SP Bibekananda Das about the
occurrence. He further admitted that the FIR written by some other person,
as because he does not know English. He stated that the occurrence took
place about 1% k.m., away from the Holy Child School. He also admitted
that he got the FIR forwarded through SP Bibekananda Das. He came back
to the house at about 11:00 p.m. He further disclosed that he resides at Piyali
Phukan Nagar area from 2001. He admitted that he knew Satyajit Medhi,
Nayan Deb Sarma and Debeswar Das, who sold possessory right of land to
Balen Das on 21.04.2011 at the consideration of Rs. 60,000/-. He further
admitted that he could not hand over the possession of the said land to the
accused person. He further admitted that about two years back, the accused
person filed a case against him at Chandmari P.S. on the allegation of
cheating. He further admitted that in 2015, he injured one Nipol Bezbaruah of
Piyaliphukan area by his official revolver and for that reason, he was

suspended from the police department. He denied the suggestion that as the
accused demanded his money back, he did not agree to the same and

thereafter lodged this false.

11. Now, from the testimony of the three witnesses, I find that these
three witnesses contradicted one another regarding vital facts of the case.
While the victim girl stated before this Court that the accused person came
from behind and dragged her umbrella, in her statement recorded under
Section 164 of Cr.P.C., she did not state that the accused person came from
behind and dragged her umbrella. Rather she stated that the accused person

called her and as he is a neighbour, she stopped on his call.

12. Secondly, she stated that her father came to the house at about 3:00
p.m., after receiving the information from her mother, but her mother, i.e.
PW2 testified that her husband came to the house at about 7:00 p.m. PW3
i.e. the informant and the father of the victim, on the other hand stated that
he came back to the house at night. That time is relevant in this case,
because the case was filed on the next day of the alleged occurrence. If the
victim is correct, then after coming back to the house at 3:00 p.m., the
informant had much time to lodge the FIR on that very day, but it was not
done. On the contrary, if the mother of the victim is correct, then also he
came back at 7:00 p.m. on that very day. The Chandmari P.S. is not away
from the place of occurrence and as such he could have come to the police
station on that very day to lodge the FIR against the accused person, but it
was not done. The FIR was lodged according to PW1 on the next morning
and it was lodged at Chandmari P.S., but P.W.3, i.e. the informant stated that
he lodged the FIR through SP Bibekananda Das. The Printed Form of the FIR
shows that the FIR was lodged on 21.05.2014 at 5:00 p.m. Thus, there was a
gap of more than 24 hours. The informant is a police personnel and it is
difficult to believe that he does not know anything about the law. It is
evident from the testimony of the victim that in Holy Child School, there are
classes from KG to Higher Secondary and all the classes have three sections.
She also stated that alone in her own section of Class IX, there were 42
students. Her testimony also reveals that at the time of break of the school,
the parents use to come to take their children. It is also evident from her

testimony that nearby the said Holy Child School, there is another school and
at the relevant time, there must be students, parents and the other person
on the road. It is difficult to believe that inspite of the road being crawled, the
accused person committed sexual assault on her and no body noticed the
same. The prosecution failed to examine a single eye witnesses of the
occurrence except the victim. Of course the conviction can be based on
solitary testimony of the victim, but her evidence must be unblemished and
trustworthy. However, in this particular case, her solitary testimony is not of
such starling character that alone on the basis of the testimony of the victim,

the accused can be convicted.

13. Only other witnesses examined by the prosecution is Chandra Kalita.
PW4 Smti. Chandra Kalita testified that on 20.05.2014, at about 2:30 p.m.,
she was in front of her house and then she saw the victim to come back to
the house. She added that she called her, but the victim did not give any
reply. She added that she saw something different in her face and she was

looking angry and she did not ask her anything more.

During cross examination, she admitted that they have a WagonR
bearing registration No. AS-01-AK-5592 and her son Arup Kalita, committed
accident at the time of driving of the vehicle. She admitted further that on
09.10.2011, due to the said accident, son of the accused received injuries.
This witness also could not state anything about the occurrence. On the
contrary, it is evident that her relationship with the accused person was not

good.

14. PW5 SI Nancy H. Vaiphei is the Investigating Officer and I have
already noted that she confirmed some of the contradictions and omissions in
the evidence of the witnesses, in comparison to their previous statements
before the I.0.

15. Thus from the close scrutiny of the entire evidence on record, I find
that it is difficult to believe that although the occurrence took place at noon in
a busy time, there is no eye witness of the occurrence except the sole victim.
The evidence of the victim is also not of a starling character, it also transpires
that although the occurrence took place on 20.05.2014 , the FIR was lodged

on the next day. There are contradictions in the testimony of the three
witnesses, i.e. the victim and her parents, regarding the time when the
informant came back to the house after getting the information of the
occurrence. It is also evident that the relationship between the accused
person and the informant was not good. The informant himself admitted that
he along with others sold some land in the hilly area to the accused person at
a consideration of Rs. 60,000/-, but could not give possession of the said land
to the accused person. It is evident that the accused person had lodged an
FIR against the informant on the allegation of cheating. Thus, relationship
between the informant and the accused were strained and inimical and
instead of any corroboration from others, it is relied on the sole testimony of

the victim and her parents.

16. On the contrary, the accused person adduced the evidence as DW1
and he also corroborated that in the year 2011, he purchased a plot of land
from Sri Nayandev Sarma, Sri Satyajit Medhi, Sri Nikunja Medhi and Sri
Debeswar Das at a consideration of Rs. 60,000/-. He proved Ext-A as the
unregistered sale deed. He also testified that when he went to take
possession of the land, he came to know that the said land belongs to Piyali
Phukan Nagar Unnayan Samittee. He further stated that then he met the said
persons and discussed the matter and they assured him to return the
consideration money, but the informant refused to pay the money. He stated
that the matter lingered for long three years and he was not repaid the
money and then he informed this matter said Unnayan Samittee on
19.05.2014, in the meeting, organized by the said Unnayan Samittee. He
added further that the said four persons were present in the meeting along
with other members of the said Samittee and in that meeting those persons
agreed to pay the amount of him, but Nikunja Medhi again refused. He added
that as soon as he came out the meeting then the informant threatened him.
He also added that subsequently, the informant lodged an FIR at Chandmari
P.S. against him on false allegation and he was arrested in connection with
this case and forwarded to the Court. He added that after his release on bail,
the three persons, except the informant, returned back an amount of Rs.

41,500/-. He proved the Ext-B as the money receipt.
17. In view of the discussion of the entire evidence on record, I find that
the prosecution failed to establish the case against the accused person,
removing all shadow of doubt, the benefit will go in favour of the accused
person.

18. In result accused Sri Balen Das_ is held not guilty of offence

punishable u/s 8 of the POCSO Act and he is accordingly acquitted and set at
liberty forthwith. Bail Bond furnished on his behalf, will remain in force for
the next six months.

19. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open court on this 2% day of
August, 2017 at Guwahati.

(S.P. Moitra)
Sessions Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati

Dictated & corrected by me.

(S.P. Moitra)
Sessions Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
(A)

(B)

(C)
(E)

(F)

(G)

10

APENDIX

Prosecution Exhibits

Ext-1 : The statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 of
Cr.P.C.

Ext-2 : FIR

Ext-3 : Printed form of FIR.

Ext-4 : Sketch Map.

Ext-5 : Charge sheet

Defense Exhibit
Ext-A : Agreement
Ext-B : Money receipt.

Court Exhibit : Nil

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW-1 : Ms. Mandita Medhi

PW-2 : Smti. Pallabi Medhi

PW-3  : Sri Nikunja Medhi

PW-4 : Smti. Chandra Kalita
PW-5 : SI Nancy H. Vaiphei (1.0)

Defense Witnesses:

DW-1 : Sri Balen Das

Court Witnesses __ : Nil.

(S.P. Moitra)
Sessions Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
