Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/S_:

313 of CrP.
Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel of the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

41 OF 2016
(Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, r/w
Section 366 of IPC, arising out of
GR Case No 1606 of 2014)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

State of Assam

-Vs-

1.Md Mokbul Hussain

S/o Md Ahmed Ali,

Vill- No 2, Adabheti,
P.S. — Sootea,

Dist- Sonitpur.
24-10-2017
11-12-2017.

11-12-2017.

11-12-2017.
11-12-2017.

Mr Munindra Ch Baruah,
Special Public Proecutor,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Md Mainul Haque, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Mokbul Hussain is put for trial for the allegation
of charge under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, r/w Section 366 of IPC.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that on or about
6.30 PM on 09-07-2014 accused kidnapped the minor daughter of the informant.
Page |2

Since then, the minor daughter of the informant could be recovered. Hence, this

prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the complainant Smti Lila Devi before the OC,
Sootea Police Station on 10-07-2014.

4. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C, Sootea Police Station registered the
case vide Sootea Police Station Case No 74/14 under Section 366-A of the IPC. After
completion of investigation, O/C, Sootea Police Station sent up the case against the
accused person under Section 8 of POCSO Act, r/w Section 366-A/376 of IPC:

5. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
the parties, charge framed under Section 8 of POCSO Act, r/w ‘Section 366 of the
IPC. Particulars of the charge was read over, explained tosthe accused to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

6. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined two PWs i.e. the
informant and victim. After examination.of.the witnesses, learned Counsel for the
accused submitted to close the prosecution evidence on the ground that the
informant and victim no way support-the prosecution case and it would be futile to

examine the other witnesses. “Learned Special PP also conceded.

7. A close scrutiny of the statement of the statement of complainant and
victim, it appears that none of the complainant or victim could reveal any materials
to the alleged offence against the accused. Even if examine the other witnesses,
prosecution case would not develop. Speedy trial is the right of the accused person.

Considering this all, prosecution evidence is closed.

8. Accused is examined under Section 313 CrPC and the evidence
appears against the accused persons and the allegations made against the accused
person are put before me for his explanation where they denied the allegations and

declined to give defence evidence.

9. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned Counsel for
both the sides.
Page |3

10. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) "Whether on or about 6.30 PM on 09-07-2014,
at village No 2 Koroiyani under Sootea PS, accused
kidnapped Smti "X” with intent that she may be
compelled to marry against her will, or may be
forced to illicit intercourse and thereby committed
an offence punishable under Section 366 of the
IPC ?

(2) "Whether on the same time, date and place
mentioned above, you have committed sexual
assault to Smti "X” aged about 16 years minor gifl
and thereby committed an offence punishable
under Section 8 of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

 

11. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidences on
record.
12. PW1 — Smti Lila Devi, the complainant of this case deposed that she

knows accused Mokbul who is her son-in-law..At the time of incident, her daughter
Miss “X” was only about 16 years old. At the relevant time her said daughter was
missing from her house at the evening time. They have vigorously searched her, but,
did not found. Then, she informed the matter to the police station and files the
ejahar on the next day of incident. On the day of incident, she has given missing
entry in the police station and on the next day she has file written ejahar before the
police station. Beforesfiling the ejahar, she came to know that accused kidnapped her
daughter. Ext.1is the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is her signature. She cannot recall who has
written the ejahar After two years of missing of her daughter, we came to know that
her daughter has come to the house of accused. After recovery of her daughter,
policemedically examined her and also sent her to the Court for recording her
statement under Section 164 CrPC. At present, her daughter lives with the accused
as husband and wife. She also gave birth to a child from the side of accused. But,

they did not come to her house.

In cross-examination She stated that at present she does not has any
objection, if her daughter stays with the accused as husband and wife. At present

her daughter’s age is about 20 years.
Page |4

13. PW2- Smti “X” the victim of this case stated that accused Mokbul is
her husband. He is a professional driver. She knows him before eloping with him. At
the relevant time, she eloped with the accused without informing to her family
member. Thereafter, we reside with the accused at Guwahati in two years. After two
years Mokbul came to his house. After eloping her by the accused, they have
performing marriage. She has not informed to her family member including her
mother. Therefore, her mother filed this case. After two years, when they returned,
police examined me medically, recorded her statement and also sent her to the Court
for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. Ext.2 is the statement@under
Section 164 CrPC and Ext. 2(1) and Ext.2(2) are her signatures thereon..She gave
birth to one child which is with her, from the side of Mokbul. Before\birth of this
baby, she has also given birth to a child, but, he was died. At the time of her eloping,
her age was 17 years.

In cross-examination, she stated that at«present, she lives with her

husband i.e. the accused. She does not have any objection against her husband.

14. These much is the prosecution evidence.

15. The accused is charged under Section 366 of the IPC, r/w Section 8 of
POCSO Act. To prove the chargexunder Section 366 of IPC, prosecution must prove
that —

"(i) kidnapping by the accused or abduction by
him;

(it) that the person so kidnapped or abducted is
a@ woman;

(iit) that the accused then intended, or know
that it was likely,

(a) That such woman might or would be
compelled to marry a person against her will, or

(b) That she might or would be forced or
seduced to ilflicit intercourse.”

16. From the statement of victim and complainant, it appears that none of
the ingredients is fulfill by any witnesses. The victim by giving good bye to the
prosecution case stated that at the relevant time by her own will, she eloped with
the accused and thereafter married with him and at present lives with him as
husband and wife having one kid. Therefore, allegation of charge under Section 366
of IPC is failed.
Page |5

17. Next, come to prove charge under Section 8 of POCSO Act,
prosecution must prove —
"Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus

or breast of the child and makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus

or breast of such person or any other person, or does ny other Act with

sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said

to commit sexual assaualt”
18. In such type of cases, statement of victim is so important. Here in this
case, according to victim, she at her own will eloped with the accused and thereafter
married with him and at present she lives with the accused as husband and: wife.
She has also a child from the side of the accused. She clearly stated that accused is
innocent person. As such no ingredient of sexual assault is proved. Hence, charge

under Section 8 of POCSO Act is failed.

19. On careful perusal of the whole case ‘record, it appears that
prosecution has categorically failed to prove any of the alleged charge against the
accused. Hence, I do not have any hesitation to acquit the accused. Accordingly,

accused Mokbul Hussain is acquitted and set.themat liberty forthwith.

20. The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

21. Send back the LCR.

Given ‘under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 11™ day of
December, 2017.

(A. K. Borah)

Special Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Dictated and corrected by me.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |6

APPENDIX

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Smti Lila Devi, Complainant &
2.PW2 —Miss “X” (victim).

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

1. Ext. 1 : The ejahar.
2. Ext. 2 : Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
