IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE snus! CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

Special (P) Case No. 17(RKT)/2017

U/S 376(2)(i)/354A of IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

 

State of Assam
Vs.
Sri Mitinga Narzary

Sri Jisoya Champramary
beccceeeees Accused

PRESENT: — Sri D.J. Mahanta,

Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.
ADVOCATES APPEARED:
For the State : Sri D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor
For the accused / Sti NI. Siddique, Ld. Advocate
Date of evidence : 19.04.18, 11.06.18, 30.06.18

Date of Argument : 21.07.2018
Date of Judgment : 04.08.2018

\®
a

we

ial se: 5 1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 30° April, 2017, the
0
Chirang. Kajalga

JUDGMENT AND ORDER

informant Sri Rajendra Brahma, lodged an FIR before Runikhata P.S. alleging
that on 30.04.2017 at about 2.30 a.m., accused Mitinga Narzary and Jisoya
Champramary took away Miss ‘A’, Miss ‘B’, Miss ‘C’ and Miss ‘D’ (names are
withheld), on their motorcycles from the Bihu function held at Bengtol and
took them towards Runikhata. On the way, the accused persons, on the
pretext of rain, took the girls to the forest quarter of NGO worker Bimal
Borgoyary and requested him to allow them to stay there till cessation of rain.

It is alleged that during their stay in the said forest quarter, the accused
%

Ki
od

, AQ

BS

jaj Juage
Chirang. Kaialgacr

persons forcefully committed rape on Miss ‘A’ and Miss ‘B’ and molested other

two girls.

2s The matter was informed to the O/C, Runikhata Police Station
who accordingly registered a case being numbered as Runikhata P.S. Case No.
07/2017 U/S 376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 6/8 of POCSO Act and S.I A.B.
Sheikh was entrusted to investigate the case. Accordingly, the 1.0. arrested
the accused persons, visited the place of occurrence, drew sketch map of the
P.O., recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victims for medical
examination, got recorded their statements u/s 164 CrPC and after completion
of investigation, submitted charge-sheet against the accused persons, namely,
Mitinga Narzary and Jisoya Champramary U/S 376(2)(i) IPC read with Section
6/8 of POCSO Act. Later on, accused Jisoya Champramary was released on
bail. After receiving charge sheet, copies of relevant documents were
furnished to the accused persons. Accused Mitinga Narzary was produced
before the court from jail and accused Jisoya Champramary appeared before
this Court. On perusal of entire materials on record and hearing both sides
and after having found a prima facie case, formal charge was framed U/S
376(2)(i)/354A of IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act against accused Mitinga
Narzary and Jisoya Champramary separately. Charge was read over and
explained to the accused persons to which they denied to plead guilty. After

framing of charge, accused Mitinga Narzary was released on bail.

Be In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as

12 (twelve) witnesses including the I.0. and M.O.

4. Following witnesses are examined:-
(1) Victim as PW 1
(2) Victim as PW 2
(3) Victim as PW 3
(4) Victim as PW 4
(5) Sri Rajendra Brahma as PW 5
(6) Sri Pinnai Basumatary as PW 6
(7) Sri Rang Kumar Goyary as PW 7
(8) Sri David Basumatary as PW 8
gee
0”

tal) Judge.
Chirang. Kajaigaon

Bh

(9) Sri Sukumar Goyary as PW 9

(10) Sri Prabul Narzary as PW 10

(11) Dr. Meena Hazarika (M.O.) as PW 11
(12) SI Abdul Barik Sk. (I.0.) as PW 12

Statements of the victims U/S 164 Cr.P.C. were exhibited as

Ext.1, 4, 5 and 6. Seizure list were exhibited as Ext.2 and 3. FIR was exhibited
as Ext.7, Medical reports were exhibited as Ext.8 & 9, sketch map was
exhibited as Ext.10 and Charge-sheet was exhibited as Ext.11. Seized two

jangias were exhibited as Material Ext-1.

Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.

Heard argument from both sides.

Now points for consideration: -

For the offence U/S 376(2)(i) of IPC

Whether on 30.04.2017, at about 2.30 A.M. at village Runikhata
Forest Range Quarter under Runikhata P.S., the accused
Mitinga Narzary committed rape on Miss 'B’ (name is withheld),

a woman under age of 16 years?
For the offence U/S 354A of IPC

Whether on the same date, time and place, the accused
Mitinga Narzary committed physical contact and advanced
involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures/made a
demand or request for sexual favours against the will of a

woman, namely, Miss 'D’ (name is withheld)?
For the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act

Whether on the same date, time and place, the accused Mitinga
Narzary committed penetrative sexual assault on Miss ‘Miss 'B’
(name is withheld), a minor girl under the age of 18 years?
©
»

2
\ IN
uY ‘os

- al Judges.
Chirang, Kaiatgaon

For the offence U/S 376(2)(i) of IPC

4. Whether on 30.04.2017, at about 2.30 A.M. at Village Runikhata
Forest Range Quarter under Runikhata P.S., the accused Jisoya
Champramary committed rape on Miss ‘A ‘(name is withheld), a
woman under age of 16 years?

For the offence U/S 354A of IPC

5. Whether on the same date, time and place, the accused Jisoya
Champramary committed physical contact and advanced
Involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures/made a
demand or request for sexual favours against the will of a

woman, namely, Miss 'C’ (name is withheld)?

For the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act

6. Whether on the same date, time and place, the accused Jisoya
Champramary committed penetrative sexual assault on Miss
Miss ‘A’ (name is withheld), a minor girl under the age of 18
years?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

ee

 

 

9. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record regarding the all points mentioned above simultaneously for the
sake of convenience.

10. I have already mentioned that in support of the case,

prosecution side examined as many as 12 witnesses including M.O. and I.O.

11. PW 1(B, name is withheld), PW 2(A, name is withheld), PW
3(C, name is withheld) and PW 4(D, name is withheld) are the victim girls. PW
1 deposed that on the date of occurrence, she along with other victims went
to Bengtol to enjoy Bihu festival. She deposed that at that time, she was
reading in Class IX. She did never fail in any class. After enjoying the Bihu

function, they were proceeding to the house of maternal aunt of another
fr,
Ace
al Judge,
Chirang. Kalaigaon

%
dn

victim, PW 3. On the way, both accused persons met them. Then they
forcefully took all the victims in their motorcycle. PW 1 and PW 3 were taken
by accused Mitinga Narzary and PW 2 and PW 4 were taken by accused Jisoya
Champramary on their motorcycle respectively. According to PW 1, they got
up the motorcycle at about 7.00 p.m. After that they were loitering in different
places in the motorcycle and ultimately they were taken to a forest quarter at
about 2.30 a.m. situated at Runikhata. It is alleged by PW 1 that accused
Mitinga Narzary took her to a particular room and committed sexual
intercourse three times. After that on next day, they were kept in a room by
the accused persons. Accused Mitinga Narzary was also present in said room
along with them. Other accused Jisoya Champramary fled away. Then
members of ABSU, particularly PW 6 along with other members of the ABSU
caught them within the room and took to their office. The members of ABSU
informed the guardians of the victim girls. Accordingly, they went to the ABSU
office and knew about the incident. This witness stated same fact before the
Magistrate when her statement was recorded U/S 164 Cr.p.c. Learned defence
counsel gave suggestion that at the time of incident, age of PW 1 was above
18 years but same was denied by her. According to learned defence counsel,
PW 1 and other victim girls went with the accused persons willfully and
accused did not commit sexual intercourse with her but same fact was also
denied by the PW 1. It is revealed from the cross-examination of PW 1 that
she knew accused Mitinga Narzary three months ago. According to PW 1,
initially accused took them on long drive. When there was raining, then they
entered the forest quarter situated at Runikhata. This witness also stated that
other accused Jisoya Champramary also committed sexual intercourse with
PW 2. The PW 1 did not admit the suggestion given by learned defence

counsel that other accused did not commit sexual intercourse with PW 2.

12. PW 2 also stated same facts as stated by PW 1. According to
PW 1 and PW 2, after entering the forest quarter at Runikhata, accused
persons separated them. The younger victim girls, particularly PW 3 and PW 4
were kept in a separate room. Accused Mitinga Narzary took PW 1 into a
particular room and other accused Jisoya Champramary took PW 2 into
another room. According to PW 1, Mitinga Narzary committed sexual

intercourse with her and according to PW 2, accused Jisoya Champramary
\G
ar
A] ©

Special Judge.
Chirang Kaiaigaor

committed sexual intercourse with her. During cross-examination, it is
revealed that PW 1 and PW 2 did not make any hue and cry during their stay
at forest quarter, Runikhata. They also did not inform on next day to anybody
else though they can open the door and windows of the room where all
victims were kept by the accused.

13. PW 3 is another victim girl. She also accompanied PW 1, PW 2
and PW 4. She stated same facts as narrated by PW 1. She accompanied PW
1 on the motorcycle driven by accused Mitinga Narzary. According to PW 3;
when they entered the Runikhata forest quarter, one person opened the door
and he also touched her body. This person was not made as accused in this
case by the I.O. It is revealed from the evidence of the PW 1, PW 2 and PW 3
that person was belonged to forest department and he was the care taker of

the said quarter where accused persons took the girls.

14, PW 4 is the youngest victim, who deposed that she and PW 2
were taken by accused Jisoya Champramary on his motorcycle at about 7.00
p.m. at Bengtol when they were proceeding to the maternal aunt of PW 3
after enjoying Bihu function. She deposed that accused person took them to
Runikhata and they entered into a forest quarter. After that she along with PW
3 were kept in a particular room. Accused Mitinga touched her breast. After
that Mitinga Narzary took PW 1 into a particular room. Other accused Jisoya
Champramary took PW 2 to another room. On next day, she along with PW 1,
PW 2 and PW 3 were kept in a room. Accused Mitinga Narzary was also
present along with them in said room. They were caught by ABSU members
on next day at about 3.00 p.m. After that some of the ABSU members
manhandled them. The ABSU members took them to ABSU office. Then their
parents came to the spot and they stated all these facts to them. According to
PW 2, at that time, she was reading in Class IX. She also stated that she
never failed in any class. PW 3 stated that at the time of occurrence, she was
reading in Class VIII and she failed in Class VII. PW 4 deposed that at the
time of occurrence, she was reading in Class VII and she also never failed in

any other class.
2
A,
ae
J
jal Judge
Chirang. Kaialgaon

15, PW 5 is the informant, who lodged the FIR. He deposed that he
knew accused Mitinga Narzary prior to the incident. He deposed that their
President Pinnai Basumatary went to the forest office where victim girls along
with the accused Mitinga Narzary were found. He knew from the members of
the ABSU and went to the ABSU office and found the victim girls along with
the accused Mitinga Narzary. He interrogated the victim. Then he knew that
accused Mitinga Narzary committed sexual intercourse with PW 1 and accused
Jisoya Champramary committed sexual intercourse with PW 2 within the forest
office. Both PW 1 and PW 2 reported them about the incident. According to
PW 5, the house was a vacant quarter belonged to forest department. At that
time, he was Regional President of ABSU. Therefore, he lodged the FIR. FIR
was proved as Ext.7. Learned defence counsel during the Cross-examination,
pointed out that this witness did not state before the I.O. that victim girls,
particularly PW 1 and PW 2 had reported him about the incident. This witness
further deposed that he found PW 1 and PW 2 were weeping but according to
learned defence counsel, this fact was not stated by him before the I.0. LO.
also confirmed this point. According to PW 5, he heard from the members of
the ABSU, therefore, he had no direct knowledge about the incident.

16. PW 6 is the person who recovered the girls from the forest
quarter. He deposed that he knew the accused persons. One day, he was in
his office. Then villagers reported that two boys along with four girls were
Staying in the forest quarter on Previous night. Then he proceeded to the
quarter along with some other persons. He found that one room was closed
from outside. After opening the door, he found four girls along with accused
Mitinga Narzary. Then he interrogated the girls. After interrogation, PW 1 and
PW 2 reported him that both accused persons committed rape upon them.
The accused Mitinga tried to flee away but some of the members of ABSU
caught him. They brought all of them to their office. According to PW 6,
accused Mitinga confessed his guilt before them. Other accused Jisoya
Champramary fled away for which they could not catch him. After that PW 5
Rajendra Brahma came to their office and lodged the FIR. Learned defence
counsel pointed out that this witness did not State before the I.O. that
accused Mitinga confessed his guilt but same fact was not confirmed by the

I.0. during his cross-examination. During the cross-examination, PW 6 stated
Q
La

tal Judge,
Chirang. Kailatgaon

that he found the victim girls within a room in forest quarter. They did not
state anything about the incident. When they interrogated them thoroughly
then only, victim girls told about the incident. It is also revealed from the
cross-examination of PW 6 that the all the windows of the room were closed

from inside. Only door was closed from Outside.

17. PW 7 is Rong Kumar Goyary. He is the father of PW 1. He knew
from ABSU members that his daughter along with some girls was caught with
two boys. He immediately rushed to the office of ABSU situated at Runikhata.
He met his daughter at ABSU office. He asked her about the incident. Then
PW 1 told him that two boys had committed sexual intercourse with her,
According to PW 7, at the time of incident, age of his daughter was about 16
years. His daughter was born in the year 2003. He further deposed that he
gave original birth certificate of his daughter to the Investigating Officer and
Investigating Officer returned the same after making a photo copy of it.
During the cross-examination by learned defence counsel he deposed that the
birth certificate was obtained through ASHA kormy. He further deposed that
he supplied the date of birth correctly. Learned defence counsel gave
suggestion that at the time of occurrence, age of his daughter, PW 1 was
above 18 years but same was denied by PW 7. It is also revealed from the
cross-examination of PW 7 that his daughter and PW 2 were reading in same
class but they were not of same age group. PW 2 is one year elder than PW 1.
Learned defence counsel suggested that accused did not commit any sexual
act with his daughter but PW 7 denied. During his cross-examination, PW 7
further deposed that he interrogated his daughter, PW 1 in his home then she
admitted that accused had committed sexual intercourse with her.

18. PW 8 is the father of PW 3. According to him, age of PW 3 was
about 14 years and she failed in Class IV. At that time, she was reading in
Class VII. This witness stated that police did not seize birth certificate of his
daughter. According to learned defence counsel, at that time, age of PW 3
was above 18 years but same suggestion was denied by PW 8.

19. PW 9 is the father of PW 2. According to this witness, PW 2
was reading in Class IX and her age, at the time of evidence, was 19 years.
aor
(A ‘ <P
Special Judge.

chirang, Kalalgaon

During his cross-examination, this witness clearly stated that at the time of
incident, age of his daughter was above 18 years. He further deposed that
when interrogated his daughter, PW 2 then she told him that accused Jisoya
Champramary committed rape upon her. There was no love affection between
his daughter and accused Jisoya Champramary. According to PW 9, birth
certificate of PW 2 was not collected by police. His daughter, PW 2 failed two
times in lower classes.

20. PW 10 is the father of PW 4. He deposed that at the time of
occurrence, PW 4 was reading in Class V. At the time of giving evidence, age
of PW 4 was about 14 years. There is no birth certificate of PW 4 as stated by
PW 10. He could not state the date of birth of his daughter. Learned defence
counsel during the cross-examination of PW 10 stated that at the time of
occurrence, age of PW 4 was above 18 years but same fact was denied by PW
10.

Zi, PW 11 is the Medical Officer, who conducted medical
examination upon PW 1 and PW 2. She deposed as follows:

On 02.05.2017, she was working as M. & H.O. at JSB Civil
Hospital, Kajalgaon under NRHM, On that day, she examined victim, PW 1, 16
years, D/O of Sri Rang Kr. Goyari of village Salbari, P.S. Amguri in connection
with Runikhata P.S. Case No. 07/2017 U/S 376 IPC R/W Section 6 of POCSO
Act escorted by Woman Police Constable Sonali Barman and UBC Kayum
Bhuyan.

There was history of sexual assault on 01.05.2017 at 3 a.m.
On examination, she found the following:-

She was conscious. Build — average. Auxillary hair — present.
Breast — developed. No injury marks on her body. No. of teeth 7/7, 7/7.
Perineum injury marks — absent. Stain of semen — absent. Pubic hair —
present. Per vaginal examination — Stain of semen — absent, Mucosal tear —
absent, hymen — absent. Vaginal swab examination — No spermatozoa seen.

Urine for pregnancy test after one month — negative.
&
ee
Asx

a) Judge.
Chirang. Kaiaigaon

10

Radiological examination — not done. According to birth
certificate, date of birth is 17.11.2003.

On the same day, she also examined another victim, PW 2, D/O
of Sri Sukumar Goyari of village Salbari, P.S. Amguri in connection with
Runikhata P.S. Case No. 07/2017 U/S 376 IPC R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act

escorted by Woman Police Constable Sonali Barman and UBC Kayum Bhuyan.
There was history of sexual assault on 01.05.2017 at 3 a.m.
On examination, she found the following:-

She was conscious. Build — average. Auxilliary hair — present.
Breast — developed. No injury marks on her body. No. of teeth 7/7, 7/7.
Perineum injury marks — absent. Stain of semen — absent. Pubic hair —
present. Per vaginal examination — Stain of semen — absent, Mucosal tear —
absent, hymen — absent. Vaginal swab examination — No spermatozoa seen.

Urine for pregnancy test after one month — negative.

Radiological examination — not done. According to birth
certificate, date of birth is 16.11.2003.

22. It is found from the evidence of PW 11 that she did not
perform her duty properly. On the basis of Photostat copy of the birth
certificate, she determined the age of the victim girls, particularly PW 1 and
PW 2. Medical Officer could not ascertain the sexual intercourse as alleged by
victim girl. Though PW 11 stated that there was history of sexual assault on
01.05.17 but in FIR date of occurrence was mentioned as 30.04.17.

23. PW 12 is the Investigating Officer. He deposed that on
01.05.2017, he was serving as Second Officer in Runikhata P.S. At that time,
FIR was lodged by one Rajendra Brahma. He was entrusted for investigation.
He examined the victim girls at police station along with the informant. He
went to the P.O. According to him, P.O. is a forest range office situated at
Runikhata half kilometer away from the police station. He sent the victims to

JSB Civil Hospital for their medical examination but due to absence of lady
Special Judge,
Chirang. Kaiaigaon

11

doctor, examination could not be performed on that day. On next day, they
were examined medically at about 11 a.m. after more than 32 hours from the
date of incident. He visited the P.O. and drew sketch map. He interrogated the
witness at the place of occurrence. He collected the medical reports. He also
seized two undergarments worn by PW 1 and PW 2 but same were not sent to
Forensic Science Laboratory. He arrested the accused persons. He did not
seize the birth certificates of the victim girls. He did not visit the school of the
victims. Only photostat copy of two birth certificates regarding date of birth of
PW 1 and 2 were taken but these were not seized. No any birth certificate was
seized by the 1.0. According to PW 12, he submitted charge sheet U/S
376(2)(i) IPC R/W Section 6/8 of POCSO Act. It is found from the entire
evidence of PW 12 that he did not investigate the matter properly. What was
done by the PW 12 is nothing but perfunctory investigation. Both official
witnesses failed to perform their duties according to law.

24. Due to lacunae committed by these two witnesses, prosecution
story cannot be suffered. Therefore, I want to give more emphasis regarding
ocular evidence than that of documentary evidence. It is an admitted fact that
no any document regarding age of the victim girls was collected by the
Investigating Officer. Medical Officer also did not perform her duty properly
for which their age was not determined radiologically and clinically. Father of
the PW 1 clearly stated that PW 1 was born in the year 2003. He also stated
that he supplied the date of birth of PW 1 correctly. The suggestion given by
learned defence counsel was also denied by PW 7, the father of PW 1. He
vehemently denied the suggestion given by learned defence counsel that at
the time of occurrence, age of victim girl, PW 1 was above 18 years. He
further deposed that age of the PW 2 is greater than that of age of his
daughter. According to PW 7, PW 2 is one year elder than PW 1.

25. Heard the learned counsels on this point during argument and
it is admitted by both sides that there is no documentary evidence on record
regarding age of the victim girls. Learned defence counsel submitted a
particular case law of Hon'ble Gauhati High Court regarding evidentiary value
of photostat copy of a document. I also agree with the judgment. Therefore,

photostat copy of document is not admissible in evidence. So, I agree with
na
oO

Special Judge,
Chirang. Kajaigaon

12

both sides that there is no documentary evidence regarding age of the PW 1,
PW 2, PW 3 and PW 4.

26. Medical evidence performed by PW 11 is scanty. From the
medical examination, it was not ascertained what was the age of the victim
girls at that time. PW 11 clearly stated that she examined only PW 1 and PW
2. PW 3 and PW 4 were not examined by Medical Officer. It is also found from
the medical report that no radiological examination was done upon PW 1 and
PW 2. The age was determined by Medical Officer on the basis of Photostat
copy of birth certificate. So, medical evidence is insufficient and it is not
admissible. As there is no documentary proof, medical evidence, hence, I
want to discuss the ocular evidence given by the fathers of the victims. It was
alleged that accused Mitinga Narzary committed sexual intercourse with PW 1.
On the other hand, it was alleged that other accused Jisoya Champramary
committed sexual intercourse with PW 2. PW 7 is the father of PW 1. PW 9 is
the father of PW 2. According to PW 9, at the time of occurrence, age of PW 2
was above 18 years. On the other hand, PW 7, father of PW 1 clearly stated
that his daughter was born in the year 2003. Occurrence took place on
30.04.2017. After calculating entire year of 2003, I have found definitely, on
the date of occurrence, age of victim, PW 1 was below 18 years. According to
PW 7, at the time of occurrence, age of his daughter was about 16 years. He
vehemently opposed the suggestion given by learned defence counsel that at
the time of occurrence, age of PW 1 was above 18 years. So, considering the
evidence of PW 7 as reliable, I have found that age of the victim, PW 1 was

below 18 years.

27. Other victim girls except PW 2 were below 18 years because
they were reading in Class VII and Class V respectively. It was not proved that
they failed more than 4/5 times. Then only it can be presumed that there age
was above 18 years on the date of occurrence. They failed 1/2 times only. It
was not revealed that they failed more than 3 times or 4 times etc. PW 2 is
found to be major at the time of occurrence. According to evidence given by
her father (PW 9), she was above 18 years on the date of occurrence. PW 7

also stated that she is one year elder than PW 1.
é

bet

al Judge.
Chirang. Kaiaigaon

13

28. Now, I want to come to the other reason raised by learned
defence counsel. It is found from the entire evidence on record that all victim
girls met the accused persons at Bengtol at about 7 p.m. After that, they were
loitering along with the accused persons on their motorcycles till 2.30 a.m.
Then it was raining for which they entered the forest quarter at Runikhata. It
is also found from their own statement that PW 3 and PW 4 were sitting in a
room and other two victim girls PW 1 and PW 2 entered into two different
rooms along with two accused. PW 1 entered in a room along with accused
Mitinga Narzary. PW 2 entered into different room along with accused Jisoya
Champramary. It is revealed that they did not make any hue and cry during
their stay for several hours in that room. All doors and windows were closed.
They were staying without uttering any word. The PW 2 stated that accused
gagged her with a cloth but no evidence was revealed during investigation
that any cloth was used by accused Jisoya Champramary within the room.
They found different persons during their riding on motorcycle but did not
make any complaint to anyone. On next day morning also, they did not make
any hue and cry. It reflects that they went with the accused to the quarter
according to their own will. PW 1 and PW 2 entered the room with different
accused persons with their consent that means PW 1 and PW 2 were
consenting party. According to medical evidence, no sign of forceful sexual
intercourse was found. In case of PW 2 consent play vital role because she
was major according to her father, PW 9. Regarding PW 1, consent plays no
role because she was minor. No any allegation of sexual intercourse was
found regarding other victims. PW 4 only stated that accused Mitinga touched
her breast. She also stated this fact to the Magistrate when her statement was
initially recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. She also stated the same fact before the I.0.
PW 3 did not raise any allegation against the accused persons.

29. Learned defence counsel pointed out that the I.0. did not seize
the school certificate or birth certificate. The Medical Officer also did not
perform her duty to ascertain the actual age of the victim girls. This conduct
of 1.0. is fatal to the prosecution case. According to learned defence counsel,
on the basis of oral evidence of PW 1 and PW 7, Court cannot convict the

accused by taking the view that PW 1 was minor.
1G
hak
+ o%
al Judge
Chirang, Kaijaigaor

14

30. On the other hand, learned P.P. stated that perfunctory
investigation done by the I.0. is not fatal to the prosecution case. Because of

that, court cannot deny the justice to the victim.

31. Regarding perfunctory investigation, Hon’ble Supreme Court in
the case of “Hema Vs State through Inspector of Police, Madras
reported in AIR 2013 SC 1000” opined as follows:

"8. It is settled law that not only fair trial, but fair investigation
/s also part of constitutional rights guaranteed under Articles 20 and 21
of the Constitution of India. Accordingly, investigation must be fair,
transparent and judicious and it is the immediate requirement of rule
of law. As observed by this Court in Babubhai v. State of Gujarat and
Ors., MANU/SC/0643/2010 : 2010 (12) SCC 254, the Investigating
Officer cannot be permitted to conduct an investigation in a tainted
and biased manner. It was further observed that where
noninterference of the Court would ultimately result in failure of
Justice, the Court must interfere. Though reliance was placed on the
above decision by the Appellant, it is not in dispute that in that case,
the High Court has concluded by giving detailed reasons that the
investigation has been totally one-sided based on malafide. Further, in
that case, the charge-sheets filed by the Investigating Agency in both
the cases were against the same set of accused. This was not the
situation in the case on hand. Though the State Crime Branch initiated
investigation, subsequently, the same was taken over by the CBI

considering the volume and importance of the offence.

9. In this regard, Mr. Rawal, learned ASG by drawing our attention to
the relevant provisions of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act,
1946 submitted that the course adopted by the CBI is, undoubtedly,
within the ambit of the said Act and legally sustainable. Section 5 of
the said Act speaks about extension of powers and jurisdiction of
special establishment to other areas. Section 5 of the Act is relevant

for our purpose which reads as under:
MiG

Ha?’

Special Judge.
Chirang. Kaijaigaon

15

5. Extension of powers and jurisdiction of special police establishment
to other areas.--(1) The Central Government may by order extend to
any area (including Railway areas), in a State, not being a Union
Territory the powers and jurisdiction of members of the Delhi Special
Police Establishment for the investigation of any offences or Classes of

offences specified in a notification under Section 3.

(2) When by an order under Sub-section (1) the powers and
Jurisdiction of members of the said police establishment are extended
fo any such area, a member thereof may, subject of any orders which
the Central Government may make in this behalf, discharge the
functions of a police officer in that area and shall, while so discharging
such functions, be deemed to be a member of a police force of that
area and be vested with the powers, functions and privileges and be
subject to the liabilities of a police officer belonging to that police
station.

(3) where any such order under Sub-section (1) is made in relation to
any area, then, without prejudice to the provisions of Sub-section (2)
any member of the Delhi Special Police Establishment of or above the
rank of Sub-Inspector may subject to any orders which the Central
Government may make in this behalf, exercise the powers of the
Officer in charge of a police station in that area and when so exercising
such powers, shall be deemed to be an officer in charge of a police
station discharging the functions of such an officer within the limits of
his station.

Sub-section (3) which was inserted with effect from 18.12.1964 by Act
40 of 1964 makes it clear that on the orders of the Central
Government, any member of the Delhi Special Police Establishment is
permitted to exercise the powers of the officer in charge of a police
station in that area and while exercising such powers, he shall be
deemed to be an officer in charge of a police station concerned
discharging the functions of such officer within the limits of his station.
In the light of the mandates as provided in Sub-section (3), we are of

the view that learned ASG is right in contending that there is no
Hal
jal Judge
Chirang. Kaisigacn

16

infirmity or flaw in continuing the investigation by the officers of the
CBI in spite of the fact that the State Crime Branch registered a

complaint and proceeded with the investigation to a certain extent.

10. It is also settled law that for certain defects in investigation, the
accused cannot be acquitted. This aspect has been considered in
various decisions. In C. Muniappan and Ors. v. State of Tamil Nadu,
MANU/SC/0655/2010 : 2010 (9) SCC 567, the following discussion and

conclusion are relevant which are as follows:

55. There may be highly defective investigation in a case. However, it
is to be examined as to whether there is any lapse by the IO and
whether due to such lapse any benefit should be given to the accused.
The law on this issue is well settled that the defect in the investigation
by itself cannot be a ground for acquittal. If primacy is given to such
designed or negligent investigations or to the omissions or lapses by
perfunctory investigation, the faith and confidence of the people in the
criminal Justice administration would be eroded. Where there has been
negligence on the part of the investigating agency or omissions, etc.
which resulted in defective investigation, there is a legal obligation on
the part of the court to examine the prosecution evidence dehors such
lapses, carefully, to find out whether the said evidence is reliable or
not and to what extent it is reliable and as to whether such lapses
affected the object of finding out the truth. Therefore the
investigation is not the solitary area for judicial scrutiny in a criminal
trial. The conclusion of the trial in the case cannot be allowed to

depend solely on the probity of investigation.

Il. In Dayal Singh and Ors. v. State of Uttaranchal,
MANU/SC/0622/2012 : 2012 (8) SCC 263, while reiterating the
principles rendered in C. Muniappan (supra), this Court held thus:

18... Merely because PW 3 and PW 6 have failed to perform their
duties in accordance with the requirements of law, and there has been

some defect in the investigation, it will not be to the benefit of the
hee

al Judge.
Chirang. Kaiatgaon

if

accused persons to the extent that they would be entitled to an order

of acquittal on this ground...

12. In Gajoo v. State of Uttarakhand, MANU/SC/0747/2012 : 2012 (9)
SCC 532, while reiterating the same principle again, this Court held
that defective investigation, unless affects the very root of the
prosecution case and is prejudicial to the accused should not be an
aspect of material consideration by the Court. Since, the Court has
adverted to all the earlier decisions with regard to defective
investigation and outcome of the same; it is useful to refer the dictum

laid down in those cases:

20. In regard to defective investigation, this Court in Dayal Singh v.
State of Uttaranchal while dealing with the cases of omissions and
commissions by the investigating officer, and duty of the court in such
cases, held as under: (SCC pp. 280-83, paras 27-36)

27, Now, we may advert to the duty of the court in such cases. In
Sathi Prasad v. State of U.P. this Court stated that it is well settled that
if the police records become suspect and investigation perfunctory, it
becomes the duty of the court to see if the evidence given in court
should be relied upon and such lapses ignored. Noticing the possibility
of investigation being designedly defective, this Court in Dhanaj Singh
v. State of Punjab, held: (SCC p. 657, para 5)

5. In the case of a defective investigation the court has to be
circumspect in evaluating the evidence. But it would not be right in
acquitting an accused person solely on account of the defect; to do so
would tantamount to playing into the hands of the investigating officer

if the investigation is designedly defective.

28. Dealing with the cases of omission and commission, the Court in
Paras Yadav v. State of Bihar enunciated the principle, in conformity
with the previous judgments, that if the lapse or omission is committed
by the investigating agency, negligently or otherwise, the prosecution
evidence is required to be examined dehors such omissions to find out

whether the said evidence {is reliable or not. The contaminated conduct
Vid

Snecial Judge.
Chirang. Kaialgaon

18

Of officials should not stand in the way of evaluating the evidence by
the courts, otherwise the designed mischief would be perpetuated and
Justice would be denied to the complainant party.

29. In Zahira Habibullah Sheikh (5) v. State of Gujarat, the Court
noticed the importance of the role of witnesses in a criminal trial. The
importance and primacy of the quality of trial process can be observed
from the words of Bentham, who states that witnesses are the eyes
and ears of justice. The court issued a caution that in such situations,
there is a greater responsibility of the court on the one hand and on
the other the courts must seriously deal with persons who are involved
in creating designed investigation. The Court held that: (SCC p. 398,
para 42)

42. Legislative measures to emphasize prohibition against tampering
with witness, victim or informant has become the imminent and
inevitable need of the day. Conducts which legitimately affect the
presentation of evidence in proceedings before the courts have to be
seriously and sternly dealt with. There should not be any undue
anxiety to only protect the interest of the accused. That would be
unfair, as noted above, to the needs of the society. On the contrary,
efforts should be to ensure a fair trial where the accused and the
prosecution both get a fair deal. Public interest in the proper
administration of justice must be given as much importance, if not
more, as the interest of the individual accused. In this Courts have a

vital role to play.
(Emphasis in original)

30. With the passage of time, the law also developed and the dictum
of the court emphasised that in a criminal case, the fate of proceedings
cannot always be left entirely in the hands of the parties. Crime is a
public wrong, in breach and violation of public rights and duties, which
affects the community as a whole and is harmful to the society in

general.
bar

Special Judge.
Chirang, Kaialgaon

19

31. Reiterating the above principle, this Court in NHRC v. State of
Gujarat held as under: (SCC pp. 777-78, para 6)

6... 35... The concept of fair trial entails familiar triangulation of
interests of the accused, the victim and the society and it is the
community that acts through the State and prosecuting agencies,
Interest of society is not to be treated completely with disdain and as
persona non grata. The courts have always been considered to have
an overriding duty to maintain public confidence in the administration
of justice-often referred to as the duty to vindicate and uphold the
majesty of the law’. Due administration of justice has always been
viewed as a continuous process, not confined to determination of the
particular case, protecting its ability to function as a court of law in the
future as in the case before it. If a criminal court is to be an effective
instrument in dispensing justice, the Presiding Judge must cease to be
@ spectator and a mere recording machine by becoming a participant
in the trial evincing intelligence, active interest and elicit all relevant
materials necessary for reaching the correct conclusion, to find out the
truth, and administer justice with fairness and impartiality both to the
parties and to the community it serves. The courts administering
criminal justice cannot turn a blind eye to vexatious or oppressive
conduct that has occurred in relation to proceedings, even if a fair trial
is still possible, except at the risk of undermining the fair name and
standing of the Judges as impartial and independent adjudicators."
(Zahira Habibullah case, SCC p. 395, para 35)'

32, In State of Karnataka v. K. Yarappa Reddy this Court occasioned to
consider the similar question of defective investigation as to whether
any manipulation in the station house diary by the investigating officer
could be put against the prosecution case. This Court, in para 19, held
as follows: (SCC p. 720)

19. But can the above finding (that the station house diary Is not
genuine) have any inevitable bearing on the other evidence in this
case? If the other evidence, on scrutiny, is found credible and

acceptable, should the court be influenced by the machinations
be eo
r o*«

al Judge.
Chirang. Kaiatgaon

20

demonstrated by the investigating officer in conducting investigation or
in preparing the records so unscrupulously? It can be a guiding
Principle that as investigation is not the solitary area for judicial
scrutiny in a criminal trial, the conclusion of the court in the case
cannot be allowed to depend solely on the probity of in vestigation. It is
well-nigh settled that even if the investigation is illegal or even
suspicious the rest of the evidence must be scrutinised independently
of the impact of it. Otherwise the criminal trial will plummet to the
level of the investigating officers ruling the roost. The court must have
predominance and pre-eminence in criminal trials over the action taken
by the investigating officers. The criminal justice should not be made a
casualty for the wrongs committed by the investigating officers in the
case, In other words, if the court is convinced that the testimony of a
witness to the occurrence is true the court is free to act on it albeit the

investigating officer's suspicious role in the case.

33. In Ram Bali v. State of U.P. the judgment in Karnel Singh v. State
of M.P. was reiterated and this Court had observed that: (Ram Balj
case 15, SCC p. 604, para 12)

12... In case of defective investigation the court has to be circumspect
[while] evaluating the evidence. But it would not be right in acquitting
an accused person solely on account of the defect: to do so would
tantamount to playing into the hands of the investigation officer if the
investigation is designedly defective.

34. Where our criminal justice system provides safeguards of fair trial
and innocent till proven guilty to an accused. there it also
contemplates that a criminal trial is meant for doing Justice to all, the
accused, the society and a fair chance to prove to the prosecution.
Then alone can law and order be maintained. The courts do not merely
discharge the function to ensure that no innocent man is punished, but
also that a guilty man does not escape. Both are public duties of the
Judge. During the course of the trial, the learned Presiding Judge is
expected to work objectively and in a correct perspective. Where the

prosecution attempts to misdirect the trial on the basis of a
ha a”

Special Judge
Chirang. Kaiaigzor

21

perfunctory or designedly defective in vestigation, there the court is to
be deeply cautious and ensure that despite such an attempt, the
determinative process is not subverted. For truly attaining this object
of a fair trial’, the court should leave no stone unturned to do justice

and protect the interest of the society as well.”

32. Though in this case Medical Officer failed to ascertain any
sexual intercourse of PW 1 and PW 2 during her examination, but both PW 1
and PW 2 stated that accused persons committed sexual intercourse. After
going through the entire evidence on record, it is found that PW 1 and PW 2
were consenting party as I already decided. I have also decided that PW 1isa
minor girl. After considering the evidence of her father, it is not established
that age of the PW 1 was above 18 years. Therefore, consent does not play
any role. She clearly stated that accused Mitinga Narzary committed sexual
intercourse in three times. Though she did not state before the Magistrate,
but then also she stated that accused Mitinga Narzary committed sexual
intercourse with her within the forest quarter at Runikhata. In a case of rape
or sexual offence, evidence given by prosecutrix or victim is very much
important and on the basis of her sole evidence, accused can be convicted if

she is found wholly reliable.

33; Penetrative sexual assault is defined U/S 3 of POCSO Act as
follows:

"3. Penetrative Sexual Assault.— A person is said to commit
“penetrative sexual assault” if —

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina,
mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do

so with him or any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body,
not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus
of the child or makes the child to do so with him or any

other person; or
ja) Judge.
Chirang. Kaiaigaor

ae

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to
cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any
part of the body of the child or makes the child to do so

with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra
of the child or makes the child to do so to such person or
any other person.”

34. In present case at hand, PW 1 stated all the incident
thoroughly. Though in some occasion she became confused, but considering
her age, I have found that she went with the accused to Runikhata and
accused committed sexual intercourse with her. As she was minor at that
time, therefore, her consent bears no value. After considering the entire
evidence on record, I have found that she was below 18 years. It is not
proved beyond all doubt that she was below 16 years because her father
deposed that PW 2 is one year elder than PW 1. Therefore, Section 376(2)(i)
of IPC is not attracted in this case. On the other hand, Section 4 of POCSO Act
is established against accused Mitinga Narzary beyond all reasonable doubt.

35. Sexual harassment is defined U/S 354A IPC which runs as
follows:

“354A. Sexual harassment and punishment for sexual
harassment: (1) A man committing any of the following acts:

(i) physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and

explicit sexual overtures; or
(ii) a demand or request for sexual favours; or
(iii) showing pornography against the will of a woman; or
(iv) making sexually coloured remarks,

shall be guilty of the offence of sexual harassment.
hak
OM

al Juage.

Chirang. Ka

jaigaon

23

(2) Any man who commits the offence specified in clause (i) or
clause (ii) or clause (iii) of sub-section (1) shall be punished with
rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or
with fine, or with both.

(3) Any man who commits the offence specified in clause (iv) of
sub-section (1) shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or
with both.”

36. In present case at hand, accused Mitinga Narzary has
committed the offence under clause (i) of sub-section (1) of Section 354A IPC
because he touched the breast of PW 4 that means, he made physical contact
with her and advanced involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures.
Therefore, he is also found guilty U/S 354A IPC. PW 3 Clearly stated that
accused persons did not commit any bad act with her but PW 4 deposed that
accused Mitinga touched her breast. She stated this fact before the
Magistrate. So, I found her a reliable witness and Mitinga Narzary is also
found guilty U/S 354A of IPC for touching the breast of PW 4. The allegations
against other accused Jisoya Champramary is not proved as because PW 2
was found to be major at the time of occurrence and she was found to be
consenting party. No any evidence was found against him that he touched the
body of PW 3 and PW 4. So, charge U/S 376(2)(i)/354A of IPC R/W Section 4
of POCSO Act are not established against accused Jisoya Champramary. So,
he is not found guilty for anyone of the offences mentioned above. Point No. 2
and 3 are proved against accused Mitinga Narzary. Point Nos. 1, 4, 5 and 6
are remained as not proved.

QO R DER

af. Prosecution failed to prove the case U/S 376(2)(i) of IPC
against the accused persons, namely, Mitinga Narzary and Jisoya
Champramary beyond all reasonable doubt. Prosecution further failed to prove
the case U/S 354A of IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act against accused Jisoya
Special Judge.
Chirang. Kaiaigaon

24

Champramary beyond all reasonable doubt. Accused Jisoya Champramary is
acquitted on benefit of doubt and set at liberty.

38, On the other hand, prosecution proved the case U/S 4 of
POCSO Act against accused Mitinga Narzary beyond all reasonable doubt.
Prosecution further proved the case U/S 354A of IPC against the accused
Mitinga Narzary beyond all reasonable doubt.

39. Accused Mitinga Narzary is convicted U/S 4 of POCSO Act and
U/S 354A of IPC.

40. Heard the accused and his engaged counsel on point of
sentence. Hearing is recorded in separate sheet and kept with the case
record.

41, Accused pleaded mercy of the Court considering his tender age.

It is also stated by the accused that this is his first offence.

42. I have found that this is the first offence committed by the
accused because no previous conviction of the accused was proved by the
prosecution during trial.

43. After considering all aspects, accused Mitinga Narzary is
sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 7 (seven) years
with a fine of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand), in default, 1 (one) year
R.I. for the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act. He is further sentenced to undergo
rigorous imprisonment for a period of 2 (two) years with a fine of Rs. 2,000/-
(Rupees Two Thousand), in default, 3 (three) months R.I. for the offence U/S
354A IPC. Fine amount shall be given to the victim girls of the offences
mentioned above respectively. Both the sentences shall run concurrently. The
period already undergone by the accused in jail shall be set off from the
sentenced period as per provision of Section 428 CrPC. Accused is committed
to the prison forthwith.
25

44. Accused Jisoya Champramary is directed to furnish bail bond of
Rs. 10,000/- with one suitable surety of the like amount for a period of six
months as required U/S 437(A) Cr.P.C. Till then, he is allowed to remain in

previous bail.

45. A copy of this Judgment and Order shall be furnished to the
accused Mitinga Narzary on free of cost. Another copy of this Judgment and

Order shall be given to the District Magistrate, Chirang for information.

46. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 4" day
of August, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

Bid yon yor oi (nat/s

(D.J. Mahanta)

Special Judge,
teh
Dictated and corrected by me, Chirang.

br< AC @

(D.J. Mahanta)
Special Ju, ee

Chirang. gaon

KKK KK
26

APPENDIX

 

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Victim

PW 2 — Victim

PW 3 — Victim

PW 4 - Victim

PW 5 — Sri Rajendra Brahma

PW 6 ~ Sri Pinnai Basumatary

PW 7 — Sri Rang Kumar Goyary
PW 8 — Sri David Basumatary

PW 9 - Sri Sukumar Goyary

PW 10 — Sri Prabul Narzary

PW 11 — Dr. Meena Hazarika (M.O.)
PW 12 -S.I. Abdul Barik Sk. (1.0.)

 

Exhibit (Prosecution):

Ext-1, 4, 5 & 6 Statements of the victims U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext-2 & 3 Seizure lists

Ext-7 FIR

Ext-8 & 9 Medical reports Sketch map

Ext-10 Sketch map

Ext-11 Charge-sheet

Material Exhibit (Prosecution):

M. Ext-1 Seized two jangias.

Defence Witness:
Nil

Defence Exhibit:
Nil

ha 09118

(D.J. Mahanta)

ecial J TG
aE
