Page 1 of 8

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. EP 21 of 2017

(Under Section 354 of the IPC read with
section u/s 18 of the POCSO Act, arising
out of G.R. Case No. 1166 of 2016)

Present :- Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
Prosecutor State of Assam
=-VSs-
Accused :- \ Sri Ismal Bagh @ Small Tanti

Son of Israil Bag

Resident of Amaribari
Police Station - Rangapara
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam

Date of framing Charge :- 05/05/2018

Date of Recording Evidence :- 05/06/2018 and 31/07/2018

Date‘oftexamination of accused u/s 31 :- 31/07/2018

Cr.P:C.

Date of Argument :- 31/07/2018

Date of Judgment :- 31/07/2018

Counsel for the Prosecution :- Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Counsel for Accused :- Mr. H.P. Sedai, Advocate.

 
Page 2 of 8

JUDGMENT

dx In this case accused Sri Ismal Bagh @ Small Tanti is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 354 of the IPC read with section 18 of the
POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or about
11 a.m. of 02-04-2016 while the informant’s 15 years old minor daughter went
to attend nature's call in a garden she got a sound from her backside then she
stood up and on being seen the accused she raised alarm. Then the accused
embrace her, forcefully fell her down with attempt to. commit rape, but
informant’s daughter again raised alarm then accused ‘fled away. On 04-04-
2016 a village meeting was convened for thatxincident. As there were no
solution held in the meeting so informed was asked to file the case. Hence, this

prosecution case.

3. Accordingly, informant Kiran Bag, father of the victim, filed the ejahar
before the O/C of Rangapara. police station on 12-04-2016. On receipt the
ejahar, the Officer-In-Charge.of Rangapara Police Station registered the case
vide Rangapara P.S/Case.No. 30/16 u/s 354 B of IPC read with section 12 of
POCSO Act. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C Rangapara Police
Station filed charge sheet u/s 354 (A) of IPC read with section 12 of POCSO Act

against,the accused Sri Ismal Bagh @ Small Tanti.

4. On ‘being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
parties, I framed charge u/s 354 of IPC read with section 18 of POCSO Act,
against the accused Sri Ismal Bagh @ Small Tanti and particulars of the charge
was read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not guilty and

claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined 3 (three) numbers
witnesses which includes the victim, other one independent witness and
complainant, who is the father of the victim. After examination of the aforesaid
witnesses, learned counsel for the accused submitted to close the evidence on

the ground that statement of complainant and victim could not reveal any

 
Page 3 of 8

materials of the alleged offence as such it would be futile to examine the other
witnesses. I have also heard the learned Special Public Prosecutor. I have
carefully perused the statement of the victim, complainant and other witness.
From the statements of the complainant and most particularly statement of the
victim, no materials of the alleged offence is revealed against the accused.
Therefore, I think that prosecution case would not develop even if examined
the other witnesses. Speedy trial is the right of the accused person. Considering
the materials and facts as narrated above, the prosecution evidence is closed.
Accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the
accused and evidence appears against the accused are put»before him for
explanation where he denied the allegation and evidencevand declined to give

defence evidence.

6. I have heard arguments put forwarded.by, learned advocate of both the
parties.
7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether.the accused on 02-04-2016 at about 11 a.m./12 O’
noon at “Amoribari Tinline under Rangapara Police station,
assaulted\(or used criminal force to a woman, intending to
outrage) (or knowing it to be likely that you would thereby
outrage) the modesty of the daughter of the informant, narnely,
Miss X (15 years) and attempted to commit any offence
punishable under the POCSO Act or to cause such an offence to
be committed, and in such attempt, does any Act towards the
commission of the offence, thereby committed an offence
punishable U/S 354 of the IPC read with section 18 of POCSO
Act

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on

record.

 
Page 4 of 8

9. PW 1 Sri Kiaran Bag, the complainant, stated that the incident took
place about 1% years ago at about 10 a.m. Victim is his daughter. At the
relevant time she was aged about 15 years. One boy namely Jenial Batra
reported him that when my victim daughter went to attend the nature’s call
inside the garden, at that time accused and the victim girl came out from the
garden and the victim girl was crying. Thereafter, Jenial reported him that he
meet victim while she raised alarm. Then he searched the said Ismal but could
not found her. Then he lodged ejahar before the Rangapara police station
where he put thumb impression. The ejahar was written by one person as per
his instruction. The ejahar was read over to him and thenshe put thumb
impression thereon. His victim daughter was medically.examined by a doctor.
Her statement was also recorded by learned Magistrate) Thereafter, his victim

daughter was handed over to him. Now, she‘is living with him.

In cross-examination, he admitted that he has_not seen the incident
himself. He has lodged the ejahar as reported by Genial about the incident. The

ejahar was not read over to him:

10. PW 2, Sri Jenial Batra, upon which information, the PW 1 filed the
ejahar, stated that the ‘incident took place about 1%2 years ago at about
11/11.30 a.m. he went to see the cattle inside the garden then he heard
screaming of the daughter of Kiran. Her age was about 15 years at the relevant
time. Theshe saw that victim was crying. Near victim, Ismal was standing there.
Then‘he informed it to PW 1.

11. PW 3, the victim Miss X deposed that the incident took place about 2/3
years back. During that time she was about 16 years old. At the time of
incident, she went to a garden to attend natures call. During that time, she had
heard a sound that somebody has come by walking. When she stand up she did
not see any person. Then she shouted and come out to road. In the road she
has seen some cattles are there. During that time accused Ismal Bag asked her
what was happening. She told him that when she attended natures call she
heard somebody has going on foot. Then out of fear she shouted and crying.
Accused Ismal Bag did not do any misdeed to her. During that time one boy

named Jenial saw them and informed the matter to her father distortedly. Out

 
Page 5 of 8

of anger, her father scolded her and then he filed this case against the accused
person. After instituting the case, police recorded her statement. Then she has
been examined through doctor. Thereafter, she was taken to Court to give
statement u/s 164 of CrPC. As her father scolded her, therefore, she is bound to
give such statement before the Ld. Magistrate. Actually no such incident took
place as stated by her before the Ld. Magistrate. Ext 1 is her statement
recorded u/s 164 of CrPC before the Ld. Magistrate. Ext 1(1-2) are her

signatures.

In cross-examination, she admitted that when she was brought to Ld
Magistrate to record statement, she has made the statement as per the

instruction of her father. She wants to withdraw the case.
12. | These much is the evidence of the prosecution.

13. The accused pleads total denial while “his statement was recorded u/s

313 Cr.P.C. he also denied to give defence evidence.

14, I have heard the arguments‘put forwarded by learned counsel of both

sides.
15. To prove the charge u/s 354 of the IPC, the prosecution must prove —

“(1), A’‘woman was assaulted or subjected to use of assault

criminal.force on her ; and

(2)\The intention of the accused was to outrage her modesty

and

(3) the accused knew that her modesty will be outraged

thereby.

16. In this type of case, the statement of victim girl is most important to
decide. Here in this case PW 3 Miss X stated that “accued did not do any
misdeed to her. During that time one boy namely Jenial Batra saw them and
informed the matter to her father distorted. Out of anger, her father filed the
ejahar against the accused.” She also stated that she made statement u/s 164

Cr.P.C. as her father scolded and instructed what to say before the learned

 
Page 6 of 8

Magistrate, accordingly she made statement. Therefore, her statement made

before the learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. is not voluntary.

The person who informed the PW 1 about the incident is the PW 2, who
stated that at the relevant time he went to see the cattle inside the garden
where he heard screaming of victim, when he go forward, victim was found
crying and near the victim accused was standing there. He asked the accused
why he was standing near the victim and then he informed the matter to PW 1.
Therefore, the reporting person upon which the complainant filed a case, in fact
stated nothing any allegation against the accused. Therefore, from the
statement of victim no ingredients was revealed to prove.the allegation u/s 354
of the IPC.

17. Similarly, to prove the charge u/s 18°of the POCSO Act, the prosecution

must prove that —

“To convict the accused section 148 of POCSO Act the prosecution must
prove that accused attempted’to commit any offence punishable under this act
or to cause such an offence.to be committed, and in such attempt, does any

Act towards the commission of the offence.”

Here insthis case as stated above, victim Miss X as PW 3 clearly stated
that accused Ismal Bagh did not do any misdeed to her. She also stated that
she made,.statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. according to the instruction of her father.
Giving, good bye to the prosecution case, she stated that she does not like to
proceed the case and she wants to withdraw the case. Hence, her statement is
silent as to any of the ingredients of section 18 of POCSO Act. Therefore, the
charge u/s 18 of the POCSO Act is also failed.

18. In view of the aforesaid discussions, I am bound to hold that the
prosecution has categorically failed to prove any of the charge levelled against
the accused person beyond any reasonable doubt. As such, the accused Sri
Ismal Bagh @ Small Tanti is entitled to get acquittal on benefit of doubt.
Hence, accused Sri Ismal Bagh @ Small Tanti is acquitted and set him at liberty
forthwith.

 
Page 7 of 8

19. = The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 31* day of July,
2018.

(A.K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(A.K.:Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Transcribed and typed by me.

(R. Hazarika)Steno.
Page 8 of 8

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

1. Prosecution Witness No.1 is Sri Kiran Bag , complainant
2. Prosecution Witness No.2 - Sri Jenial Batra
3. Prosecution Witness No.3 :- Victim Miss X.
EXHIBIT
Ext. 1 f 164 Cr.P.C. statement of.the victim.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR.
