 

Special (POCSO)(T 1) Case No. 11/2018.

U/S - 448/376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

State
- Versus -
Gulap Hussain __........... Accused.

PRESENT -- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance and particulars -:-

For the State ‘- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.

For the accused person :- SrikK.U. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.

Date of recording evidence -- 26.09.2018.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC_:- 03.10.2018.

Date of Argument *- 03.10.2018.

Date of Judgment ‘> 03.10.2018.
JUDGMENT

L. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant

Moinul Haque Sekh on 19.04.2018 lodged an ejahar with the O/C,
Hailakandi Police Station alleging that on the previous day i.e. on

18.04.2018 he alongwith his wife went to Hailakandi Town in connection

with NRC keeping his daughter, the victim, in the house alone and taking

the advantage of their absence in the house, in the evening at about 6.30

PM the accused person Gulap Hussain trespassed into their house and

kidnapped the victim and took her to his house and confining her there,

Contd....P/2.
1, 30
gar” os

~iD)

ci 1 18.

= Bes
the accused Gulap Hussain committed rape on her. On arrival in the house
of the informant, they made vigorous search for his daughter for the
whole night but did not find her out and on the following morning, they
came to know from the people that the accused Gulap Hussain kidnapped
the victim. Accordingly, he went to the house of accused Gulap Hussain
and learnt about the incident from the victim. Thereafter, the informant
approached the accused Jair Ali for recovery of his daughter but the
accused Jair Ali did not listen to him, rather, he took the victim from the
house of accused Gulap Hussain and confined her in his house.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as
Hailakandi Police Station case No. 286/2018 under Sec.
448/366/342/376/34, IPC and during investigation, police visited the place
of occurrence, drew up rough sketch map thereof, recorded statements of
witnesses, got the victim medically examined and also got her statement
recorded under Sec. 164, CPC and after completion of investigation
submitted charge sheet against the accused person Gulap Hussain under
Sec. 448/342 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of accused person Gulap Hussain,
copies of relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPc were
furnished to him.

4, After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record,
having found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person
has committed the offence, the formal charges have been framed
against the accused person Gulap Hussain under Sec. 448/376 of the IPC
read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. The charges so framed were read over
and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. In the instant case, the Prosecution has examined 2
Contd....P/3.
ial (P T1 No. 11/2018.
2s

Nos. of Pws including the victim and the informant of the case,
Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence
Counsel, the prosecution evidence was closed. The accused person is
examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has. denied the allegations
levelled against him by the prosecution. The defence did not adduce any
evidence.

6. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record,

7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused person on 18.04.2018 in the
Evening at about 6.30 PM at Nitainagar Pt. | committed house trespass by
entering into the house of the informant Moinul Haque sekh with a view to

commit certain offence, as alleged?
(ii) Whether the accused person after entering into the

house of the informant committed rape on his daughter, the victim, as

alleged?
(iii) Whether the accused person after entering into the

house of the informant committed penetrative sexual assault on the
victim, as alleged?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF --

8. The PW. 1, the victim, has deposed that about 5
months back, one day she went to the house of accused, who is the son of
his maternal uncle, wherefrom she alongwith accused went to the house
of her another maternal uncle and as such, her father lodged the case.
Police got her medically examined and also got her statement recorded by
the Magistrate and Ext. 1 is her said statement, wherein Ext. 1(1) is her

signature.
In cross examination, the victim has stated that on her

own will, she went to the house of her maternal uncle and on being
tutored, she made statement before the Magistrate.

Contd....P/4.
OD oat
sor

CIAL? eps
SE AILABAND

Special (POCSO)(T 1) Case No. 11/2018.
w/4 s

Be The PW. 2, Moinul Haque Sekh is the informant of the
case and he has deposed that the accused is the son of his brother in law.
About 5 months back, one day he did not find his daughter, the victim, in
the house and as such, he lodged the FIR and thereafter, police recovered
his daughter. The informant has further deposed that on being asked, the
victim told him that she went to the house of her maternal uncle for

roaming.
In cross examination, the informant has stated that he

mentioned the name of the accused in the FIR on suspect.

10. In the instant case, the evidence of the victim is of
much importance in deciding the case. In her evidence she has made the
fact clear that on the relevant day she went to the house of one of her
maternal uncles, wherefrom she went to her another maternal uncle
alongwith the accused, who is her cousin, and as such, her father lodged
the case. She has also revealed in her cross examination, that on her own
will, she went to the house of her maternal uncle and on being tutored,
she made statement before the Magistrate. The PW. 2, the father of the
victim, keeping himself in the same footing as of the victim, has vividly
Stated in his evidence that as he did not find his daughter in the house, he
lodged the case on Suspect and subsequently, on being asked, the victim
told him that she went to the house of her maternal uncle for roaming. As
such, when the victim herself as well as the informant has not supported
their own case, | do not find any cogent reason to hold the accused
person guilty for the commission of the offence, alleged.

11, Accordingly, it can be safely held that the prosecution
failed to prove its case against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubt.

12. The accused person Gulap Hussain is acquitted of the
offence charged under Sec.448/ 376 of IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO
Act. Set him at liberty forthwith,

Contd....P/5.
  
  
 

=
13. The bail bond of the accused stands discharged.
14. Send a copy of this judgment to the Ld. District
Magistrate, Hailakandi.
L5. The judgment is delivered today, on this the 3% day of
October,2018.
a%
\d-
aly:
SPECIAL JUDGB
Dictated and corrected by me :- HAILAKANDI

V4

i.
SPECIAL JUDGE

HAILAKANDI
Dictation is taken and transcribed by Baharul Islam Choudhury,
Stenographer Grade I.

Contd...P/6.
Special (POCSO) (T 1) Case No. 11/2018.
-6-

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, the victim.

PW. 2, Moinul Haque Sekh, the informant.
Documentary evidences :-

Nil.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

 

SPECIAL JUDGB
HAILAKAND!
