IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT & SESSIONS JUDGE CUM
SPECIAL JUDGE-2 (FTC) (POCSO) :: :: TINSUKIA

District: Tinsukia

Present: Md. A. Hakim,
District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),
(POCSO)Tinsukia.

POCSO Case No. 1(T)/18
U/s 6 OF POCSO Act

The State of Assam

15 Mm 15 RE 7 w SRE Complainant.

-Versus -

Sri Dilip Moran,

S/o- Lt. Bhokmon Moran,
R/o- Of New Gandhi Nagar,
P.S- Makum,

District- Tinsukia, Assam.

beeeeeeeeeeneeeeeneeneees Accused.
Appearance:

Sri B.L Agarwal

Spl. Public ProS@CULOF ........ccceceeeeeeeeeeeneenees For the Complainant

Sri S. Sarma

AAVOCALEC.. occ ec ecccccceceeeeceeeeeeecueeeeeeauensneanenees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 30-07-19, 14-08-19.
Date of Judgment: 26.08.2019

UDGMEN T

The prosecution case is depicted in the FIR by the informant
is as follows that during the time of Durga Puja the accused
Sri Dilip Moran who is the neighbour of the informant had
established physical relationship upon the victim girl (niece
of the informant) by enticing to show her Durga Puja
somewhere in the Rajgarh T.E. Because of the enticement
and threat given by the accused, his niece concealed the
said fact and they were unaware about the said fact. But
from the sister of the victim the fact came to the light on
31.12.17.

Receiving the FIR, Makum PS registered a case no.3/2018
and investigated the matter and on completion of the
investigation, charge sheet was submitted against the accused
and forwarded to face the trial.

Upon receiving the record and appearance of the accused
in this court and upon hearing both sides and considering the
materials on record charge u/s 6 of POCSO ACT has_ been
framed, particulars of which on being read over and explained
the accused has pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

During trial, prosecution examined Seven (7) witnesses.
The accused is examined u/s 313 Cr.PC. The accused has

adduced evidence in his defense.

| have heard argument put forth by the Id. Counsel for both
the sides as well as gone through the entire materials available
on record.

6. POINT FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused prior to 01.01.17 during the
time of Durga Puja at Gandhinagar, Makum in the
district of Tinsukia had committed penetrative
sexual assault upon the victim(niece of the
informant) and thereby committed an_ offence
punishable U/s. 6 of POCSO ACT or not?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7.

PW.1, the informant has deposed that he knows the
accused. He also knows the victim who his niece. The
Incident took place in the year 2017 during Durga Puja but
he came to know from female members of their family about
it only on December, 2017. He came to know that accused,
Dilip Moran during Durga Puja festival had taken his niece,
victim girl and her younger sister Tripana Neog to show
Puja festival and also gave her some toys and also gave
something to eat to both of them. While coming back he
kept Tripana Neog standing near bike and took the victim girl
inside Rajgarh T.E and there he_ established physical
relationship with her. Thereafter he summoned Dilip Moran to
their house and on_ interrogation he refused to have
committed the offence but the girls reiterated their version
in front of him and as such they lodged the FIR. Ext. 1 is
the FIR, Ext. 1(1) is his signature. The victim is aged about
13 years now. He brought her birth certificate. M. Ext. 1 is
the birth certificate (proved in original under objection). After
lodging the FIR, Police had come. The victim was also sent
her medical check. The victim was also produced before
magistrate for recording her statement U/s. 164 Cr.P.C.
In Cross-examination he has deposed that the accused
was called but he did not come. So on 01.01.18 he caught
hold the accused near Gandhi Nagar while he was
consuming liquor and brought him to his house. They
interrogated the accused regarding the incident but he
denied. His wife informed him regarding the alleged incident
on 31.12.17. Ext. 1 was scribed by police at the police
station. Police recorded his statement. He did not state before
police that his wife informed him about the _ incident. In his
family he has his parents, his wife, two younger brothers,
sister in laws, two niece, his two daughters. The victim is the
daughter of his youngest brother. On the date of incident,
he did not ask the victim with whom she went to enjoy
Puja. The victim did not state before him what had happened
with her or where she had gone for Puja. He cannot say the
date and time when the victim went to enjoy Puja. He also
cannot say what clothes the victim wore onthe date of
occurrence. He did not mention in his Ejahar that the
accused gave some toys and also gave something to eat
to both the girls. But he has forgotten whether he had _ stated
such before the police. He denies the suggestion that he did
not state before police that the accused gavesome toys and
also gave something to eat to both the girls and he willfully
refrained to state the same in the court today. He has no
personal knowledge regarding the alleged incident. He does
not know about the exact place of occurrence. Rajgarh Tea
Estate is a vast area. He denies the suggestion that no
incident took place as alleged and he has filed the’ ejahar
merely on imagination. Police did not asked for the M. Ext. 1
and as such he also did not give it to the police. He has
brought today M. Ext. 1 as he is directed in the summon to
bring it. He denies the suggestion that M. Ext. 1 is a fake
and illegally manufactured document.
9.

10.

11.

5

P.W.2 Dr.(Mrs.) Wareesa Reja Bora has deposed that on
02.01.18 she was working as M. & H.O - 1 at Tinsukia Civil
Hospital. That day at about 1:15 PM she examined the
victim in connection with Makum PS case no. 03/18 under
sec. 376 IPC r.w sec. 4 of POCSO Act. She was_ brought and
identified by WPC/196, Smt. Ranjita Chetry. She was examined
in presence of her grand mother, Smt. Manu Neog. Her grand
mother consented for her examination. However, the victim
refused. The grand mother gave_ the history of sexual
assault that nearly 4 months back at 11 AM at Garhbasti
near Makum, the accused was named as Dilip Moran. She
was sent for radiological examination to ascertain her age
and as per the radiological report, her age is 7 to 9
years.

OPINION - In her — opinion considering her physical
appearance, she find her between 7 to1l1 years.

Ext. 2 is her Medical report. Ext. 2(1) is her signature.

Ext. 3 is Radiological Report, Ext. 3(1) is the signature of Dr.
Geetanjali Deka Kalita, She is conversant with his signature.
Ext. 3(2) is her signature.

In cross-examination she has deposed that she did
not examine the victim physically as she refused. Since, she
did not examine the genital parts of the victim, as such, she
cannot say about any damage inher private parts nor she

can say about any sexual assault onthe victim.

P.W.3, the mother of the victim girl has deposed that
she knows the accused. The victim is his daughter. The
Incident took place last year during Durga Puja, 2008. After
returning from Durga Puja his victim daughter and Tripana
Neog, her younger daughter had told her that the accused
had taken them to show Durga Puja to Garhbasti and after
return in the evening at 4P.M, the younger daughter told
her that the accused had taken them inside the garden and
6

after laying and set on the ground, removed the pant of
the victim and committed bad act with her and he offered
Rs. 20/- to Tripana Neog to take some eatable and told her
not to disclose the fact to anyone. And out of fear she kept
this matter concealed. Thereafter the said fact was confirmed
by victim. Thereafter she concealed the facts of the incident
due to fear of earning bad name of the family. There had
been a quarrel between the victim and Tripana Neog in the
month of December'l7. Then Tripana Neog disclosed the
said facts before all the family members. The victim was also
sent her medical check up. The victim was also produced
before magistrate for recording her statement U/s. 164
Cr.P.C.

In cross-examination she has_ stated’ that Police
recorded her statement. She denies the suggestion that she
did not state before police that “the Incident took place last
year during Durga Puja, 2008. After returning from Durga Puja
her daughter victim and Tripana Neog, her younger daughter
had told her that the accused took them to show Durga
Puja to Garhbasti and after return in the evening at 4 PM,
the younger daughter told her that the accused had taken
them inside the garden and after laying and set on the
ground, removed the pant of the victim and committed bad
act with her and he offered Rs. 20/- to Tripana Neog to
take some eatable and told her not to disclose the fact to
anyone. And out of fear she kept this matter concealed.
Thereafter the said fact was confirmed by victim. Thereafter
she concealed the facts of the incident due to fear of
earning bad name of the family. There had been a quarrel
between the victim and Tripana Neog in the month of
December'l7. Then Tripana Neog disclosed the said facts
before all the family members. The victim was also sent her
medical check up. The victim was also produced before
magistrate for recording her statement U/s. 164 Cr.P.C. ”
13. She did not know whenthe girls went to enjoy puja
but at around 4PM they returned. She does not know in
which garden the incident had happened. The victim wore
pink frock and white pant. The younger girl wore pink frock
and white long pant. Police did not seize the clothes of
victim girl which was wearing on the day of the incident.
She denies the suggestion that she did not state before the
police what she has stated today in examination in chief.

14. P.W.4, Victim Girl (X) has deposed that she knows
accused Dilip Moran. The Incident took place during Durga
Puja, 2017. She called the accused by the name 'Dadau'. On
the fateful day she was playing with her younger sister in
a field near their house. The accused came to them. Took
both of them on his bike and took them to show Durga
Puja to Garhbasti. In Garhbasti he gave them 'Phusca’' to eat
and Mobile toy. Then he took them to Garbasti garden. There
was drain. He parked the vehicle near the drain and kept
standing her sister near the bike and took her inside the
nulla. There he laid her on the ground, removed her pant.
Then he unzipped his pant and then he inserted his penis in
her vagina. She had screamed and tried to escape but he
caught hold of her. He also gave her Rs. 20/- with a
direction that she should not disclose the same to anybody.
They returned home at about 1PM. Thereafter her younger
sister told about the incident to her mother. However, her
mother kept the facts of the concealed. Thereafter on 31°
December, there had been a quarrel between her and her
younger sister and her younger sister disclosed about the
facts of the incident. Thereafter this case was lodged by Sri
Prasanta Neog who is her Uncle. After filing the case she
was also sent for medical examination. She was_ also
produced before magistrate for recording her statement U/s.
164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 4 is her statement U/s. 164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 4(1)
8

and 4(2) are her signatures.

15. In cross-examination she  has_ stated’ that police
recorded her statement. She denies the suggestion that she
did not state before police that “the Incident took place
during Durga Puja, 2017. She call the accused by the name
‘Dadau'. On the fateful day she was playing with her
younger sister in a field near their house. The accused
came to them. Took both of them took on his bike and
took them to show Durga Puja to Garhbasti. In Garhbasti he
gave them 'Phusca’ to eat and Mobile toy. Then he took us
to Garbasti garden. There was drain. He parked the vehicle
near the drain and kept standing her sister near the bike
and took her inside the nulla. There he laid her on the
ground, removed her pant. Then he unzipped his pant and
then he inserted his penis in her vagina. She had screamed
and tried to escaped but he caught hold of her. He also
gave her Rs. 20/- with a direction that she should not
disclose the sameto anybody. They returned home at about
1 PM. Thereafter her younger sister told about the incident
to her mother. However, her mother kept the facts of the
concealed. Thereafter on 31°* December, there had been a
quarrel between her and her younger sister and her younger
sister disclose about the facts of the incident. Thereafter this
case was lodged by Sri Prasanta Neog who is her Uncle”.

16. She had refused to allow the doctor to examine her
private parts. On the day of incident she wore white frock
and black pant. She denies the suggestion that she has
deposed a cooked up story and that is why she did not
allow the doctor to examine her private parts. She denies
the suggestion that while she puts her signatures Ext. 4(1)
and Ext. 4(2), she did not read the contents of Ext. 4 and
that is why she does not know the contents of Ext. 4.
9

17. P.W.5, Smt. Manu Neog has deposed that victim is her
grand daughter. She also knows the accused, Dilip Moran. The
Incident took place during Durga Puja in the year, 2017 and
she came to know about the incident in December'l17. One
day in the month of December, 17 a quarrel took place
between the victim and Tripana and Tripana disclosed that
during last Durga Puja the accused has taken the victim
and her to show Durga Puja and had given them 'Phusca'
to eat andtoy mobile and thereafter he took them in the
garden and asked her to stay there and laid down the
victim in anulla and removed her pant and after removing
her pant he leaned over her body. The incident was also
confirmed by the victim. Thereafter they caught hold of the
accused and handed over you to police.

18. In cross-examination she has denied the suggestion
that she did not state before police “the Incident took
place during Durga Puja in the year, 2017 and she came to
know about the incident in December'l7. One day in the
month of December, 17 a quarrel took place between the
victim and Tripana and Tripana disclosed that during last
Durga Puja the accused has taken the victim and her to
show Durga Puja and had given them 'Phusca' to eat and
toy mobile and thereafter he took them in the garden and
asked her to stay there and laid down the victimin a nulla
and removed her pant and after removing her pant he
leaned over her body. The incident was also confirmed by
the victim. Thereafter they caught hold of the accused and
handed over him to police”.

19. She did not see the incident herself and whatever
she stated, she heard from the victim only. She denies the
suggestion that he did not state before police about the
confirmation of the fact from the victim as police did not
ask her. She has questioned the accused about the _ incident
10

but he denied his involvement. She denies the suggestion
that he deposed a cooked up story.

20. P.W.6, Sri Jeet Chetia has deposed that he knows the
victim and also know the accused. He came to know about
the incident after the arrest of the accused and thereafter
he came to know about the incident from Palash Neog who
is the uncle of the victim and came to know that during
Durga Puja the accused had immoral act with the victim.

7a In cross-examination he has stated that Police did
not record his statement and whatever he deposed today
in his examination in chief, did not depose before the
police.

22. PW. 7, Sri S.l. Chandan Das has deposed that on
1.1.2018 he was attached to Makum Police Station that day in
the evening one Prasanta Neog came to police station and
lodged a written ezahar, stating that his niece victim girl during
last durga puja was subjected to sexual assault by the accused
Dilip Moran. That it was also alleged that the victim was
threated by the accused and therefore she did not reveal the
earlier. And on 31.12.2017 the incident came to light on being
disclosed by the younger sister of the victim. On receipt of the
ejahar O/C Makum Police Station registered a case and Makum
P.S. Case No. 3/18 U/S 376 I.P.C. R/W section 4 of POCSO Act and
directed him to investigate the case. Ext. 1 is said ejahar. Ext.
1(2) is the Signature with the endorsement of Shri Bhaskar
Saikia then O/C Makum Police Station, he is conversant with his
Signature. He immediately recorded the statement of the
informant Shri Prasanta Neog at the Police station. Then
thereafter he proceeded to the resident of informant/ victim. And
there he recorded the statement of the witnesses available there
including the victim. The villagers who had assembled there
produced the accused before him and he took him in his
11

custody. Since it was night by time the victim could not take
medical examination and next day she was sent for medical
examination to the Civil Hospital, Tinsukia. He collected the
school certificate from the Gopal Krishan Girls High School.
Material Ext. 2 is the said certificate. On 02-01-18 the accused
was forwarded to the court. On 03-01-2018 the victim was
produced before the Magistrate for recording her statement u/s
164 Cr. B.C. There after the victim was referred to Child Welfare
Committee for counseling and other needful action. There after
he collected the medical report as well as and after completing
the investigation he submitted the charge sheet U/S 376 I.P.C.
R/W sec 4 Of POCSO Act. Ext. 5 is the Charge sheet. Ext 5 (1) is
his signature.

23. In cross-examination the PW.7 has stated that he took
up investigation on 01-01-2018 at about 6:10 P.M. The victim
could not locate the actual place of occurrence. Ext. A is the
Sketch Map. Ext. A (1) is my signature. In Ext ‘A’ a house is
indicated as original P.O. and which is marked as Index 'A'. The
Ezahar was filed before the police station after four month of the
occurrence, but the victim did not told the date of occurrence.
He could not investigate about wearing apparels of victim on
the date of occurrence. Neither he seized the wearing apparel of
the victim nor he send the wearing apparels to the F.S.L. Victim
refused to examine her medical examination. He did not asked
the victim why she refused to examine her medical examination.
He denies the suggestion that no such incident took place as
alleged and he has manipulated the case. He did not record the
statement of Smt. Tripana Neog i.e the younger sister of the

victim.

24. It is a fact that the PW. 1 Shri Prasanta Neog did not state
before him that - ‘the accused gave some toys and also gave to
something to eat to both the girls’. It is a fact that the RW. 3
Smti. Pranati Neog did not state before him that - “the incident
12

took place last year during durga Puja in 2008. After returning
during puja her victim daughter and Tripana neog her younger
daughter have told that the accused took them to show durga
puja to Garh Basti and after returned in the evening at 4 P.M. the
younger daughter told her that the accused had taken them
inside the garden and after laying and set on the ground,
remove the pant of the victim and committed bad act with her
and he offered Rs. 20 to Tripana neog to take some eatable and
told her not to disclose the facts to anyone. And out of here she
kept this matter concealed. There after the said fact was
confirmed by the victim. There after she concealed the facts of
the incident due to earning bad name of the family. There had
been a quarrel between the victim and Tripan Neog in the month
of December 2017. Then Tripana Neog disclose the matter
before the family members. The victim was also sent for medical
checkup. The victim was also produced before the Magistrate for
recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

25. It is a fact that P.W. 4 victim did not state before him that
“the incident took place during puja 2017. He call the accused
by name “Dadau”. On the faithful day he was playing with his
younger sister in a filed near their house. The accused came to
them. Took both of them on his bike and took them to show
Durga Puja to Garh Basti. In Garh Basti he gave them “ Puckhka”
to eat and mobile toy. Then he took them to Garh Basti Garden.
There was a drain. He parked the vehicle near the drain and kept
standing her sister near the bike and took her inside the naala.
There he laid her on the ground, and removed her pant. Then he
unzipped his pant and then he inserted his pennis in her vagina.
She had screamed and tried to escape but he caught hold of her.
He also gave her Rs. 20 with a direction that she should not
disclose the same any body. They returned home at 1 PM.
Thereafter her younger sister told her mother about the incident.
However her mother kept the facts concealed. There after on 31
December there have quarrel between her and her younger
13

sister. And her younger sister disclose the facts of the incident.

26. It is a fact that PW. 5 Smt. Manu Neog did not state before
him that “the incident took place during puja in the year 2017
and he came to know about the incident in December 2017. On
one day in the month of December 2017 a quarrel took place
between the victim and Tripana. And Tripana disclose the during
last Durga Puja the accused has taken the victim and her to
show Durga puja and had given them Puchka to eat and toy
mobile and there after He took them in the garden and asked
her to stay there and laid down the victim in a Naala and
removed her pant and after removing her pant he leaned her
body. The incident was also confirmed by the victim. There after
they caught hold of the accused and handed over him to Police.

27. The I/O has denied the suggestion that he has not
investigated the case properly and falsely submitted the charge
sheet against the accused.

28. DW.1, Sri Dilip Moran has deposed _ that he is
conversant with the facts of the case. On 01.01.18 he
alongwith Prasanta Neog, Rahul Gogoi and one Babul were
celebration New year party in a hotel of Makum_ Gandhi
Nager, Ward no. 8. There was some altercation took place
between him and Prasanta Neog = and_ Prasanta Neog,
assaulted him. Prasanta Neog is the uncle of the victim. Then
he told Prasanta Neog that he will file a case in the PS.
Thereafter Prasanta Neog again assaulted him and tied him
in his house for three hours and later handed him over to
the police implicating him in this case.

29. In Cross-examination by Prosecution, the DW.1 _ has
stated that the Hotel is situated at a distance of about 100
meter from the house of Prasanta Neog. He denies the
suggestion that on 01.01.18 he alongwith Prasanta Neog,
14

Rahul Gogoi and one Babul were celebrating New year party
in a hotel of Makum Gandhi Nager, Ward no. 8.

30. He denies the suggestion that there was some
altercation took place between him and Prasanta Neog and
Prasanta Neog, assaulted him. Prasanta Neog is the uncle of
the victim. Then he told Prasanta Neog that he will file a
case in the PS. Thereafter Prasanta Neog again assaulted
him and tied him in his house for three hours and _ later
handed him over to the police implicating him in this case.
He denies the suggestion that for sexually assaulting the
victim during last Durga Puja, he was apprehended’ and
handed over to police. He denies the suggestion that to
save his skin from this case, he has deposed falsely.

31. With regard to the point for determination Ld.
counsel for the defence side has pointed out (i) that the FIR
was lodged about four months in delay and there is no
proper explanation for the reason of such inordinate delay.
The mother of the victim girl has deposed that she came
to know about the alleged incident on the day of the
incident. But there is no- corroboration about such
concealment. Although the PW.4 has deposed that she _ told
her mother about the alleged incident on the day of the
incident but the statement of the victim girl(PW.4) is proved
contradictory. Moreover the reason of to save the family
reputation, the alleged incident was not informed by the mother
of the victim girl is not at all accepted considering the nature of
the offence. It is further pointed out that the reason of delay is
also not mentioned in the FIR. Hence it cast a doubt that the
reason explained by the PW 3 is afterthought, exaggerated and
embellished. (ii)That the statement of the PW.1, PW.4 and
PW.5 are proved to be contradictory by the 1.0 so far the
description of the alleged place of occurrence is concerned.
Hence, the statement of the PW.1, PW.4 and PW.5 are not
15

reliable. (iii) That the prosecution has_ failed to prove the
place of occurrence. The PW.7(I.0) has stated in his cross-
examination that place of occurrence is a house ( Ext. A)
but the PW’s have deposed that the place of occurrence
was in a garden. Hence, it creates a doubt about the
reliability of the place of occurrence and thus the prosecution
story. (iv) That the prosecution has failed to examine the
material eye witness i.e. the younger sister of the victim.
Who disclosed first about the alleged offence to her mother (PW
3) and later to her family members. Apart from this the
prosecution has failed to explain why the younger sister of the
victim girl who is the eye witness to the alleged incident is not
examined. Hence, it cast a doubt about the authenticity of
the prosecution story. (v) That there is discrepancy in the
statement of PW.3 and PW.4 about the dress wearing by
the victim girl ie. PW 4 on the date of the occurrence.
Hence, it creates a doubt about the allegation. (vi) That the
informant PW.1 has stated in his cross-examination that on
31.12.17 his wife informed him regarding the alleged
incident. But his statement is not corroborated by his wife
as Prosecution has not examined her. Moreover it appears
from the FIR that the complainant has written the FIR on
1.1.2017 but the FIR was lodged on 1.1.2018. Hence, it cast a
doubt about the deposition of the PW.1 about the source
of knowledge of the alleged incident and filing date of the FIR
and thus cast a doubt about the authencity of the prosecution
story. (vii) That there is no medical evidence to prove about the
sexual assault to the victim girl. Hence the prosecution has
failed to prove that the accused has committed penetrative
sexual assault upon the victim. It is also further submitted that
considering the age of the victim girl it is unbelievable that there
would not have any injury on the private part of the victim girl.
There is not a whisper about the injury on the private part of the
victim girl. Ocular evidence is not corroborated by the medical
evidence. So allegation of the rape on the victim girl by the
16

accused cast a doubt. (viii) That there is no circumstantial
evidence against the accused person to prove that the
accused has committed rape on the victim girl. (ix) That in
the FIR there is no mention that the alleged incident was known
by the mother of the victim girl long four months ago and kept
concealed the fact due to the fear of earning bad name. The
statement is also not stated before the I/O. Which proves that
the prosecution story is exaggerated, embellished and made
afterthought. Hence it cast a doubt that the statement of the PW
3 and the prosecution story.

32. At the end Ld. Counsel for the accused has prayed to
acquit the accused and cited the following case laws in his
defence : (i) Gauhati High Court 2019(1) GLT 17, Abhijit Dutta
Vs. State of Assam Ant. (ii) Tripura High Court 2019(1) GLT
(TRI)24, Raju Mog Sharma vs. State of Tripura.

33. Per contra, learned Addl. PP has pointed out (i) that
although there is discrepancy about the date in_ the
statements of the PW’s, yet, it is not serious as people
have natural habit to forget the date at the time of new
year. From the statement of the victim girl recorded U/s.
164 Cr.P.C it is apparent that the court has recorded the
statement of the victim girl on 02.01.18. Hence, there is
no doubt about filing of the FIR in the’ police station on
01.01.18. He also pointed out that the case was registered
on 01.01.18. Hence, considering all facts and circumstances,
it can be held that mentioning of the date in the FIR as
01.01.17 is simply an numerical error. (ii) It is pointed out
that the FIR was not lodged in delay. What the delay was
caused was _ natural. It is quite natural for a mother to conceal
the fact to save the family reputation and dignity. Hence, the
prosecution story is reliable. (iii) It is also pointed out that
as per section 29 of POCSO Act, that the court can presume
that the offence was committed by the accused _ against
17

the victim girl.

34. Upon hearing both sides | have gone through the material
evidence on record. It reveals from the FIR that the informant is
the paternal uncle of the victim girl. The informant has alleged in
the FIR that the accused who is the neighbour of the informant
had committed rape on the victim girl about four months ago at
the time of Puja from the date of lodging the FIR. It is alleged
that the accused took the victim girl along with her younger
sister to show Puja and during that time in the midst of a tea
garden the accused had committed rape on the victim girl.

35. Admittedly, there is no disclosure of the actual date of
occurrence and the fact remains under the cloud on which date
the alleged incident was occurred. The FIR has stated that the
alleged incident had happened about four months ago at the
time of Puja from the date of the lodging the FIR.

36. The defence side has emphatically points out about the
vital delay in lodging the FIR about four months from the time of
the alleged occurrence even after knowing the fact by the
mother of the victim girl. It is pointed out that there is no proper
explanation by the informant about the reason of delay in FIR
nor he has deposed the before the court. The explanation of the
reason of delay of FIR although explained by the PW 3 mother of
the victim girl yet it is not reliable as the statement is proved to
be contradictory. Which indicates the statement made in
afterthought. Hence it cast a doubt about the authenticity of the
prosecution story.

37. Before | discussed about the point of delay | would like to
cite the case of Kailash Gour and Ors. V. State of Assam
(Criminal Appeal No. 1068/06) MANU/SC/1505/2011
wherein Hon’ble Supreme Court has observed in the case With
regard to the delay in lodging FIR that if the delay is not
satisfactorily explained the same is fatal to the prosecution.
18

38. In State of H.P. V. Giyan Chand
(MANU/SC/0312/2001: (2001) 6 SCC 71 The _ Hon’ble
Supreme Court has observed that if the prosecution fails to
satisfactorily explain the delay and there is a possibility of
embellishment in the prosecution version on account of such
delay, the delay would be fatal to the prosecution. However if
the delay is explained to the satisfaction of the court the delay
cannot by itself be a ground for disbelieving and discarding the

entire prosecution case.

39. In the Dilawar Sing v. State of Delhi (2007 12 SCC,
641) Hon’ble Supreme Court has observed as follows that: In
criminal trial one of the cardinal principles’ for the court is to
look for plausible explanation for the delay in lodging the report.
Delay sometimes affords opportunity to the complainant to
make deliberation upon the complaint and to make
embellishment or even make fabrications. Delay defeats the
chance of the unsoiled and untarnished version of the case to be
presented before the court at the earliest instance. That is why if
there is delay in either coming before the police or before the
court the courts always view the allegations with suspicion and
look for satisfactory explanation. If no such satisfaction is formed
the delay is treated as fatal to the prosecution case”.

40. Hon’ble Gauhati High court has also held in the case of
Rakesh Debnath v. State of Tripura (2010 (6) GLJ 394) that
FIR required to be filed at earliest opportunity. Delay in lodging
FIR casts a serious doubt on truthfulness of prosecution story.

41. Hon’ble Supreme Court has decided in the case Mahtab
Sing & Ors. Vs. U.P. (2010 (13) SCC (Cri) 1185) that
unnatural conduct of complainant in lodging the FIR is always
doubtful.
19

42. Coming back again to the case it is revealed from the bare
perusal of the FIR that no reason of delay is cited by the
informant in lodging the FIR. The informant PW 1 has also not
deposed anything in this regard. But the prosecution has tried to
explain the reason of delay in lodging the FIR by the deposition
of the PW 3. It is found that at the time of the examination in
chief the PW 3; mother of the victim girl has deposed that she
knew the alleged fact; on the day of the incident but did not
inform the matter in fear of her family reputation might be
tainted. But her statement is not corroborated by the informant
(PW 1) nor by the FIR. Prosecution has failed to cite plausible
explanation for the delay in lodging the report. As the accused
has adduced defence evidence and taking the plea that due to
the fight between the informant and the accused before the
filing the FIR, the instant case is lodged falsely against him it
cast a doubt about the authenticity of the prosecution story. In
view of the time of delay the informant has got ample
opportunity to make deliberation upon the complaint and make
embellishment or fabrications to the prosecution story. The
allegation in the case is very serious nature and keeping silent
for about four months is not believable in the name of reputation
of the family name. Hence it cast a doubt about the truthfulness
of the prosecution story.

43. With regard to the place of occurrence Ld. Counsel for
the accused has pointed out that the prosecution has failed to
identify the proper place of occurrence. There is no resemblance
about the place of occurrence stated by the PW 1, PW3, PW4,
PW 5 with the sketch map of PW7 (I/O) hence the prosecution
story cast with a shadow of doubt. It is pointed out that the
statement of the PW.1 PW. 3, PW 4 and PW.5 are proved to
be contradictory by the PW 7 (1.0) so far the description of
the alleged place of occurrence is concerned. Hence, the
statement of the PW.1, PW.3, PW 4 and PW.5 so far the place of

occurrence is concerned are not reliable and believable.
20

44. Upon hearing on this point from both sides | have strolled
through the material on record and found that the PW 1, PW3,
PW 4 & PW5 have unequivocally states that the alleged offence
was committed in the midst of a garden. But PW 7 (I/O) has
stated that the victim could not locate the actual place of
occurrence. Ext. A is the Sketch Map. Ext. A (1) is my signature.
In Ext ‘A’ a house is indicated as original PRO. and which is
marked as Index 'A’.

45. Although it can be presumed that being a little girl, the
victim girl might have failed to properly locate the place of
occurrence but in course of cross-examination the I/O has stated
that the place of occurrence is a house. Which belies the
deposition of the P.W’s about the place of occurrence. As the
prosecution has failed to identify the place of occurrence it cast
a doubt about the authenticity of the place of occurrence.

46. The evidence of the PW 3 with regard to the dress of
the victim girl wearing on the day of the alleged incident
is found to be contradicted by the PW.4 i.e. victim girl. PW.3
has stated in course of her cross-examination that the
victim girl was wearing pink frock with white pant. But the
PW.4, Victim girl stated in her cross-examination that on the
day of incident she was wearing white frock and _ black
pant. The evidence of the mother andthe victim girl with
regard to the dress of the victim girl on the day of the
alleged incident suffering from serious infirmities and not
consistent with the material aspect and hence, found
unreliable. In view of the statement of the PW.3 and PW.4
it can be presumed that they have developed the
Prosecution story. Hence, cast a doubt about the alleged
incident.
21

47. Ld. counsel for the accused has pointed out that
Prosecution has failed to examine the material eye witness,
i.e the younger sister of the victim who disclosed first
about the alleged offence to her mother and later to her
family members. Apart from this the Prosecution has failed
to explain why the younger sister of the victim, who is the
eye witness to the alleged incident and the wife of the
informant who informed the incident first to the informant is not
examined. Hence, it cast a doubt about the authenticity of
the prosecution story.

48. In this regard, Ld. PP has submitted that the
examination of the younger sister of the victim is not
necessary as the victim girl is enough to prove the case.

49. Upon hearing both side, | have gone through the
material on record and found thatin the FIR, the informant
has stated that on 31.12.17 the family members of the
informant came to know about the alleged incident through
the own sister of the victim girl. Apart from this it is
appeared in course of recording the statement of the victim
girl U/s. 164 Cr.PBC that the incident was at first informed
to her mother by her sister and her sister was the eye
witness to the incident. The PW.3, mother of the victim girl
had also deposed that after returning from Durga Puja her
younger daughter told her about the alleged incident. From
this evidence it is crystal clear that the younger sister of
the victim girl is a vital and material witness in this case.
But the Prosecution has failed to examine the vital and
material witness, i.e. younger sister of the victim girl. Neither
she is cited as a witness in the  charge-sheet. The
Prosecution has failed to give any plausible explanation
why the vital and material witness, the younger sister of the
victim girl is not examined. It is also revealed from the

deposition of the PW.1(informant) that he came to know
22

about the alleged incident from the female members of their
family. But in course of his cross-examination, he has
deposed that his wife had informed him regarding the
alleged incident on 31.12.17. But Prosecution has_ not
examined the wife of the informant nor cited any reason of
non-examination. From this it cast a doubt about the source
of information received by the informant, PW.1 and thus the
reliability of the prosecution story.

50. Ld. Counsel for the accused has pointed out that the
FIR was written by the complainant on 01.01.17 as _ it
appears from the body of the FIR. But the FIR was lodged
on 01.01.18. Hence, it cast a doubt about the source of
knowledge and alleged incident.

51. But in reply, Ld. RP has submitted that the date put
on the FIR is simply a clerical mistake as it is proved from
the recording of the statement of the victim girl before the
Court and lodging date of the FIR proves that the case was
lodged on 01.01.18. Hence, there is nothing to doubt about
the contents of the FIR and the lodging of the date of the
FIR.

52. Hearing the arguments from both sides, | have gone
through the Ejahar and found that the date is mentioned on
the top of the Ejahar as 01.01.17 but from the Ejahar and
the statement of the victim girl recorded U/s. 164 Cr.P.C
and other relevant documents it can be presumed that the
date put on the Ejahar as 01.01.17 is an clerical error.
Hence, | do not see any doubt about the ejahar and date
put on there.

53. Ld. counsel for the accused has pointed out that
there is no medical evidence to prove about the penetrative
sexual assault upon the victim. The ocular evidence is also

not supported by medical evidence. Ld. counsel for the
23

accused has drawn the attention to the MODI's MEDICAL
JURISPRUDENCE AND TOXICOLOGY 17th Edition page 355
and submitted that considering the age of the victim girl
and had there been any penetrative sexual assault being
committed upon the victim girl then there would have
been damage on the private parts of the victim girl. But as
the falsehood of the informant and the victim girl would
have come out in examining the victim girl by the
PW.2(M.O), the victim girl did not allow her to be medically
examined. Hence, it cast a doubt about the Prosecution
story.

54. In reply Ld. PRP has emphatically submitted that as
the victim girl herself has refused to be examined by the
doctor, hence the allegation of penetrative sexual assault
could not be determined by medical evidence. He has
emphasized that as the mother and the victim girl have
alleged that the accused has committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim, they should be believed and relied

upon.

55. Upon hearing on this point, | have gone through the
medical evidence adduced by the PW.2. It is revealed from
the opinion of the PW.2 that the age of the victim girl was
7-11 years at the time of the examination. In course of her
cross-examination she has stated that she did not examine
the victim girl physically as she had refused. Hence, she
cannot say about any damage in the private parts or any

sexual assault was committed on the victim girl.

56. It is to be noted that the alleged incident was
occurred about four months ago from the date of the medical
examination of the victim girl. So had the PW.2(M.O)
examined the victim girl medically then she would have not
found any superficial injury on the private parts of the victim
24

girl. But she could have determined whether any penetrative
sexual assault had happened to the victim girl or not?

57. Here | would like to extract the views of Modi's
Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 17th Edition, page 355
and which has mentioned that -

(a) In girls under 14 years of age, the vaginal orifice
is usually so small that it would hardly allow the
passage of the little finger,
(b) In case of sexual intercourse, the hymen may not
remain intact if the vaginal orifice is big enough to
admit 2 fingers easily,
(c) In the case of girls of less than 14 years, the
distensibility of the vaginal orifice has to to taken in
view.
(d) If penetration take place in the case of girls of
such an age, then there can be expected to be
widespread damage of :-
(i) the fourchette,
(ii) hymen,
(iii) labia majora,
(iv) labia minora,
(v) Vulva and

(

vi) vaginal canal.

58. From the observations of the Modi's Medical
Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 17th Edition, page 355, it can
be well presumed that if any alleged penetrative sexual
assault had taken place with the victim girl then there
would have been wide spread of damage of (i) the
fourchette,(ii) hymen,(iii) labia majora,(iv) labia  minora,(v)
Vulva and (vi) vaginal canal. But as’ the victim’ girl has
refused to be medically examined her by the PW.2, the
Said damage on the private parts of the victim girl could
not be ascertained. And hence belies the allegation’ of
25

commission of penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl.
In view of the above discussion and the observations made
by the Modi's Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 17th
Edition, page 355 and considering all facts and
circumstances it cast a doubt about the commission of

penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl.

59. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of State of
Himachal Pradesh vs. Asha Ram, (2005) 13 SCC 766) has
observed that the testimony of the prosecutrix alone can form
the basis of conviction if it inspires confidence and is found to be
reliable.

60. But here in the instant case the testimony of the victim
girl does not inspire any confidence. It cannot be relied upon as
the material circumstances does not corroborate her statement.
The medical evidence has also not corroborating the testimony
of the victim girl. Hence it cast a doubt about the evidence of
the victim girl.

61. In the case of Sikandar Ali vs. state of Assam {2010
(3) GLJ 679} Hon’ble Gauhati High Court has held that mere
suspicion or suspicious circumstances cannot ease prosecution
of its main duty of proving its case against an accused person
beyond reasonable doubt.

62. The law relating to circumstantial evidence Hon’ble
Supreme Court has observed in State of U.P vs. Ravindra
Prakash Mittal (Dr.) AIR 1992 SC 2045 that when a case
rests on circumstantial evidence, a complete chain of
circumstances, which rule out every other possibility except guilt
of the accused, has to be established. The essential ingredients
to prove guilt of an accused person by circumstantial evidence

are:
26

A. The circumstances from which the conclusion is drawn
should be fully proved.

B. The circumstances should be conclusive is nature.

C. All the facts so established should be consistent only
with the hypothesis of guilt and inconsistent with
innocence.

D. The circumstances should to a moral certainly exclude
the possibility of guilt of any person other than the
accused.

63. In the Sibu. Das @ Bapa Vs. State of Tripura
(2013(1) GLT 682) Hon’ble Court has observed in para 15 as
follows that - “The Supreme Court in the case of Dasari Siva
Prasad Reddy Vs. Public Prosecutor, High Court of A.P
reported in (2004) 11 SCC 282 has observed in a case of
circumstantial evidence that a strong suspicion, no doubt
exists against the appellant but such suspicion cannot be
the basis of conviction, going by the standard of proof
required in a criminal case”.

64. The Supreme Court has cautioned about the danger that
conjecture and suspicion may take the place of legal proof in
cases depending largely on _ circumstantial evidence. In
Hanumant and Another Vs. M.P, [1952] SCR 1090 Hon’ble
Supreme Court has observed as follows :- “In dealing with
circumstantial evidence the rules specially applicable to such
evidence must be borne in mind. In such cases there is always
the danger that conjecture or suspicion may take the place of
legal proof and therefore it is right to recall the warning
addressed by Baron Alderson, to the jury in Reg v. Hodge ((1838)
2 Lew. 227), where he said :- "The mind was apt to take a
pleasure in adapting circumstances to one another, and even in
straining them a little, if need be, to force them to from parts of
one connected whole; and the more ingenious the mind of the
individual, the more likely was it, considering such matters to
27

overreach and mislead itself, to supply some little link that is wanting,

to take for granted some fact consistent with its previous theories and

necessary to render them complete.
12. It is well to remember that in cases where the evidence in of
a circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the
conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should in the first instance be
fully established, and all the facts so established should be
consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.
Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and
pendency and they should be such as to exclude every
hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved. In other words,
there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to
leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the
innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that
within all human probability the act must have been done by the
accused”.

65. In State of Punjab Vs. Jagir Singh Baljit Singh
reported in AIR 1973 SC 2407, which is noted, as follows:
"23. A criminal trial is not like a fairy tale wherein one is free to
give flight to one's imagination and fantasy. It concerns itself
with the question as to whether the accused arraigned at the
trial is guilty of the crime with which he is charged. Crime is an
event in real life and is the produce of interplay of different
human emotions. In arriving at the conclusion of a crime, the
Court has to judge the evidence by yardstick of probabilities, its
intrinsic worth and the animus of witnesses. Every case in the
final analysis would have to depend upon its own facts. Although
the benefit of every reasonable doubt should be given to the
accused, the Court should not at the same time reject evidence
which is ex facie trustworthy on grounds which are fanciful or in

the nature of conjectures."
28

66. Here in the instant case the prosecution has failed to
establish the fact which is consistent with the hypothesis of the
guilt of the accused. The chain of evidence in the instant case is
not complete. The circumstances against the accused is not fully
established. The circumstances against the accused is not
conclusive nature and tendency. The prosecution has put the
allegation upon the accused but without any material
corroboration. Although the allegation is put up by the witnesses
yet there is no evidence of possibilities or probabilities. Hence
the prosecution story becomes unreliable and shrouded with

suspicion.

67. In view of the above discussion and considering the
evidence on record, | am of the considered opinion that the
Prosecution has failed to prove the case against the
accused U/s. 6 of POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubts.
Hence, the accused person namely 1) Sri Dilip Moran is
acquitted on benefit of doubt and set at liberty.

68. The Prosecution is directed to dispose of the seized

material in accordance with law.

69. The bail bond of the accused is extended U/s. 437(A)
Cr.P.C.

70. As the prosecution has failed to prove that the victim girl
has suffered from penetrative sexual assault, | am not inclined to

allow compensation to the victim girl as per section 357 A Cr.PC.

71. Send a copy of the Judgment to the Deputy Commissioner
of Tinsukia.

72. The case is disposed of herewith.
73.

29

Given under her hand and
26" day of August 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me:

(A. Hakim),
District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),
(POCSO)Tinsukia.

Transcribed by :

P.D Phukan, (Steno)

seal of this court on this the

( A. Hakim),
District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),

(POCSO)Tinsukia.
30

ANNEXURE

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

P.W.1, Sri Prasanta Neog,

P.W.2, Dr.(Mrs.) Wareesa Reja Bora,
PW.3, Smt. Pranati Neog,

PW.4, Victim girl(X),

PW.5, Smt. Manu Neog,

P.W.6, Sri Jeet Chetia,

P.W.7, S.l, Sri Chandan Das.

DEFENCE WITNESSES:

DW.1, Sri Dilip Moran.

PROSECUTION DOCUMENTS :

Ext. 1, is the Ejahar,

Ext. 2 is the Medical report,

Ext. 3 is the Radiological report,

Ext. 4 is the statement of the victim girl, U/s. 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext. 5 is the Charge-sheet.

Ext. Ais the Sketch map.
Material Ext. 1 is the Birth certificate of the victim girl,
Material Ext. 2 is the School certificate of the victim girl.

( A. Hakim),
District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),

(POCSO)Tinsukia.
