Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

DISTRICT : KAMRUP (M)

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, KAMRUP (M) GUWAHATI

PRESENT: - Shri A. Chakravarty, M.A., LL.M., AJS

Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017
U/S 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012
Corresponding to Sonapur P.S. Case No. 166/2017

Stateof Assam lass Complainant
Versus
Shri Praneswar Bhuyan ...Accused
Charge framed on : 22.08.2017
Evidence recorded on : 22.02.2018, 02.04.2018, 04.05.2018,

02.06.2018, 02.08.2018, 06.08.2018,
26.11.2018, 26.03.2019 & 29.04.2019.
Statements recorded on: 14.12.2018
Arguments heard on : 13.05.2019
Judgment delivered on : 27.05.2019

Advocates who appeared in this case are:
Shri Girin Das, Addl. P.P., for the Prosecution.

Shri Rakesh Dubey, Advocate for the accused.
Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

JUDGEMENT

1. This case was registered on 29.05.2017, at Sonapur Police
Station, under Section 8 of the Prevention of Sexual Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 (in short “the FIR”), based on a First Information
Report (in short “the POCSO Act”), filed by one Smt. Binoy Boro, against

the accused Praneswar Bhuyan.

2. The case of the prosecution, as stated in the F.I.R, is that at the
relevant time, the thirteen years’ old minor daughter of the informant,
(hereinafter referred to as “the victim girl”), was studying in Class-VI of the
Kamalajari M.E. School. A few days before the alleged incident, the
accused Praneswar Bhuyan, who was a teacher of the said school, used to
sexually assault the victim girl. On 25.05.2017, the accused Praneswar
Bhuyan touched the private parts of the victim girl and mentally tortured
her. Failing to bear the sexual harassment at the hands of the accused
Praneswar Bhuyan, the victim girl told about the same to the informant.
The victim girl also told the informant that the accused Praneswar Bhuyan,
had sexually assaulted five/six of her classmates. Therefore, on
29.05.2017, they handed over the accused Praneswar Bhuyan to the
Sonapur Police and the informant lodged an F.I.R. of the incident with the

Sonapur Police Station.

3. Based on the FIR, the Officer-in-charge of the Sonapur Police
Station registered the Case No. 147/2017, under Section 8 of the POCSO
Act and entrusted the Woman S.I. of police Smt. Manju Gogoi to
investigate the case. Accordingly, Woman S.I. of police Smt. Manju Gogoi

investigated the case.

4. During the course of investigation, the Investigating Officer visited
the place of occurrence and recorded the statements of several witnesses.
The Investigating Officer also sent the victim girl to the GMCH for medical

examination and collected her Medical examination Report. The
Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

Investigating Officer also got the statement of the victim girl and another
recorded by the Magistrate under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “the Cr.P.C.”). After completion
of the investigation, finding sufficient evidentiary material against the
accused Praneswar Bhuyan, the Investigating Officer submitted charge-
sheet for an offence under Section 8 of the POCSO Act against him in this
court, as this court has been designated as the Special Court for trial of
cases under the POCSO Act. Hence this case.

5. During trial, my learned predecessor framed charge under Section
8 of the POCSO Act against the accused Praneswar Bhuyan. When the
contents of the charge was read over and explained to the accused, he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

6. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined thirteen
witnesses. In his examination under section 313 Cr.P.C., the accused has
denied the prosecution case and has stated that the case is the result of a
conspiracy hatched by the then Principal of the Kamalajari School. He also

examined himself and four other witnesses to prove the same.
7. The point for determination in this case is:-

Whether on 25.05.2017, at Kamalajari M.E. School, under
Sonaur Police Station, the accused Praneswar Bhuyan sexually assaulted
the victim girl, who at the relevant time was aged about 13 years and
thereby, committed an offence punishable under Section 8 of the POCSO
Act.

If so, what punishment does he deserves?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

8. I have carefully examined the evidence on record, gone through

the relevant documents on record and after hearing the arguments
Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

advanced by the learned counsels for both the sides, give my decision on

the above point as follows:-

9. The victim girl, (PW-1) has deposed that the occurrence took
place while she was studying in Class-VI at the Kamalajari High School.
The school is a co-educational school and in their class, there were both
boys and girls students. The other victim girls were also studying with her.
The accused was the Mathematics teacher of their class. In the class-
room, the accused used to disturb her by touching her body. He used to
press her arms during class time. She reported the matter to her mother
and her mother informed the police. Her statement was recorded by the
Magistrate. Ext-1 is her said statement and Ext-1(1) is her signature
therein. In the Ext-1 statement, the victim girl has categorically stated that,
the accused used to hold her arms and not any other parts. Holding the
hands of the victim girl cannot be held to an offence under Section 8 of the
POCSO Act. The definition of the sexual assault given in Section 7 of the
POCSO Act reads as follows:-

“7 Sexual assault — Whoever, with sexual intent touches the
vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the
vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does
any other Act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without

penetration is said to commit sexual assault.

10. Section 7 of the POCSO Act defines the offence of sexual assault.
It states that a person is said to commit sexual assault if he with sexual
intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the
child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other
person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical

contact without penetration.

11. Section 87 of the POCSO Act is the penal provision for sexual

assault.
Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

12. In view of the above testimony of the victim girl, in the instant
case, the accused Praneswar Bhuyan cannot be held guilty of committing
the offence under Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

13. The other victim girl, (the PW-2), whose name is not mentioned
in the charge framed by my learned predecessor, has also deposed that on
the day of the alleged occurrence, the accused touched and held her arms
and also touched her back. She requested the accused not to do so and
thereafter, reported the matter to her mother. Her statement was
recorded by Magistrate. Ext-2 is her said statement and Ext-2(1) and 2(2)
are her signatures therein. But, as per the definition of the sexual assault,
as stated above, touching and holding the arms and touching the back of
the victim girl does not fall under the sexual assault as defined under
Section 7 of the POCSO Act.

14. PW-3 Smt. Binoy Boro, the mother of the victim girl is not an
eye witness of the alleged occurrence. Therefore, based on her testimony,

the accused cannot be held guilty of committing the alleged offence.

15. PW-4 Smt. Anjali Boro, the mother of the other victim girl is
also not an eye witness of the alleged incident and hence, based on her
testimony also, the accused cannot be held guilty of committing the

alleged offence.

16. PW-5 Dulu Prasad Saikia, a teacher of the Kamaljari High School
has deposed that the alleged occurrence took place on 29.05.2017. On
that day, after attending the 4 period, when he went out, he saw
two/three women and a few men in the room of the Principal. The Principal
claimed and told him that the guardians of some students leveled
allegations regarding indecent behavior towards the students by the
accused. He requested the Principal to call a meeting with the President of
the Managing Committee of the School and others. The Principal told him
that a meeting cannot be called in such a short time. In the mean time, a

huge crowd gathered there and the police also arrived. The media
Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

personnel also arrived there. Thereafter, the accused was dragged away
and assaulted by the crowd in presence of the police. Thereafter, the
police took him away. He did not enquire about the correctness of the

allegation.

17. Therefore, the PW-5 has not supported the prosecution case as
he has not deposed that the accused had sexually assaulted the victim girls
on 25.05.2017.

18. PW-6 Bimala Rahang, an Assistant Teacher of the Kamalajari
School has deposed that she knows nothing about the alleged occurrence.
She also did not hear anything about the occurrence. Thus, the PW-6 also

has not supported the prosecution case.

19. PW-7 Monjica Boro, the next door neighbor of the victim girl, is
also not an eye witness of the alleged incident and hence, based on her
testimony also, the accused cannot be held guilty of committing the

alleged offence.

20. PW-8 Naba Kanta Boro, another neighbor of the victim girl is
also not an eye witness of the alleged incident and hence, based on his
testimony also, the accused cannot be held guilty of committing the

alleged offence.

21. PW-9 Ratneswar Ronghang, advisor of the Karbi Students Union
has deposed that on 29.05.2017, while he was sitting in the office of the
Karbi Students Union, the President of the Boro Student Union, namely Ajit
Khaklari, requested him over phone to go to Kamalajari M.E. School as
some untoward incident had occurred there. He then went to the
Kamalajari M.E. School and found the ABSU leaders there. They went to
the office of the Head Master of the school and discussed about the
incident. The victim girls were also called and in their presence, the victim
girls gave their statements to the Head Master regarding sexual assault by

the accused. They were crying at the time of narrating the incident. As
Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

the situation became tense, he informed the police and immediately, the
police came and took away the accused. The PW-9 did not depose
anything about the alleged incident of sexual assault. Therefore, based on
his testimony also, the accused cannot be held guilty of committing the

alleged offence.

22. PW-10 Ranu Deka, has deposed that on 29.05.2017, she was
working as the Head Master of the Kamalajari High School. The Kamalajari
M.E. School is also situated inside the campus of the Kamalajari High
School. On the relevant day, the Planning Officer came to their school
from the office of the Inspector of Schools to discuss about the
amalgamation of both the schools. While the Inspector of Schools was
inspecting the campus, they saw some women of village Loflong Kholabari.
At around 01.00 P.M., they saw a huge gathering inside the school
campus. Many young boys came there. She saw the police and media
persons. She saw some young boys forcing the accused to kneel down
inside the campus in presence of the police. She asked the police why
they were not taking any step. She heard that the accused had sexually
assaulted the girls. Next day, she organized a meeting inside the school
campus, but no girl reported anything about the teacher in her presence.
The accused Praneswar Bhuyan used to go to the school in time and left
the school in time. She could not understand when the incident of sexual

assault had taken place.

23. Thus, the PW-10 has completely nullified the prosecution case. In
fact, in view of the above testimony of the PW-10, the accused cannot be
held guilty of committing sexual assault on any student of the school, as
being the Head Master of the Kamalajari High School, the PW-10 organized
a meeting in the campus of the school and though the girls of the schools
attended the meeting, none reported to her anything against the accused.
Therefore, the accused Praneswar Bhuyan cannot be held guilty of

committing the alleged offence.
Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

24. In the cross-examination, she has stated that she knows the
accused Praneswar Bhuyan since 2005. She never received any complaint
against him. The accused Praneswar Bhuyan had dispute with the Head
Master of the M.E. School.

25. PW-11 Raju Bharali is also not an eye witness of the alleged
incident. Therefore, based on his testimony also, the accused cannot be

held guilty of committing the alleged offence.

26. PW-12 Manju Gogoi, the Investigating Officer of the case is merely
a formal witness as she received the case for investigation on 29.05.2017,

whereas the alleged incident occurred on 25.05.2017.

27. PW-13 Bhaskar Jyoti Thakuria, a Home guard of Sonapur Police
Station has produced the G.D. Entry No. 870, dated 29.05.2017 and hence,

he is also merely a formal witness of the case.
28. Let us now discuss the rebuttal evidence.

29. DW-5 Praneswar Bhuyan, the accused, has deposed that on the
day of the alleged incident, that is on 25.05.2017, he was present in the
school and attended the classes. The victim girl was absent on that day.
On 29.05.2017, at around 12.15 P.M., some women police personnel came
to the office of the Principal and discussed something with him.
Thereafter, at around 01.10 P.M., some youths and media persons came to
the teacher’s common room and dragged him to the field and assaulted
him. Thereafter, the police took him to the 30-beded hospital at Khetri
and after medical examination, took him to the Khetri Police Station. He
was detained at the Khetri Police Station till 10.30 P.M. Thereafter, he was
again taken to the 30-beded hospital at Khetri and from there, he was
taken to the Sonapur Police Station. Under a conspiracy hatched by the
then Head Master Sunil Ramchiary and some other teaches of the school,
he has been falsely implicated in this case. He never sexually assaulted

the victim girls. On the day of the alleged occurrence, the victim girl was
Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

not present in the school. Earlier, the Head Master Sunil Ramchiary had
misbehaved with some leady teachers of the school at which he objected
and therefore, the Head Master framed him in this case. At the instance of
the Head Master Sunil Ramchiary, the students’ union of the school also

acted against him.

30. In the cross-examination, he has stated that on 25.05.2017, he
was present in the school. On that day, one of the victim girls was not
present in the school, but the other victim girl was present. He definitely
cannot say whether the other victim girl was present in the school on that
day or not. On 29.05.2017 he was arrested and on the next day, a
meeting was held in the school. But he cannot say for what purpose the

said meeting was called.

31. DW-2 Ranu Deka, the Head Master of Kamalajari High School has
deposed that she has brought the Attendance Register of Class-VI of the
Kamalajari M.E. School of the year 2017. According to the Attendance
Register, on 25.05.2017, the student having Roll No. 4 (the said student is
the victim girl), was absent. The other victim girl having Roll No. 21, was
first shown as absent but, overwriting the “A” (for Absent”), “P” (for

present) was written against her name.

32. Therefore, the Head Master of the Kamalajari High School has
supported the contention of the accused that on the day of the alleged
occurrence, the victim girl was absent and the other victim girl was also
absent as overwriting the absent, present was written later on. Therefore,
the contention of the accused that he has been famed by the then Head

Master of the school is believable.

33. Further, as can be seen from the discussion made earlier, the PW-
10 Ranu Deka has also corroborated the accused that the then Head

Master had falsely implicated him in this case.
Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

34. Further, the prosecution case is also unbelievable as the accused
has alleged to have committed the alleged offence inside a class room. It is
simply unbelievable that a teacher will sexually assault some students
inside the class-room in presence of other students of the said class. This
raises serious doubt about the truthfulness of the prosecution case and

hence, the accused must be entitled to get the benefit of the doubt.

35. In view of the testimonies of the prosecution and defence witnesses
discussed above, there is no necessity of discussing the testimonies of the

remaining defence witnesses.

36. In view of the above, the accused Praneswar Bhuyan cannot be held
guilty of committing the alleged offence beyond all reasonable doubt. The

point is decided accordingly.
ORDER

37. In the result, from the facts and circumstances of the case and
above discussion, I hold that the prosecution has failed to bring home the
charge under Section 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused Praneswar
Bhuyan beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, I acquit him giving him the
benefit of the doubt. His bail bond stands cancelled. He is set at liberty
forthwith.

38. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on this the 27" day
of May, 2019, in Guwahati.

(Shri A. Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Kamrup (M), Guwahati
Dictated & corrected by me

(Shri A. Chakravarty )
Special Judge, Kamrup (M), Guwahati

10
Oo OABN AD WH BW NY

Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

APPENDIX

. Prosecution Witnesses:

. PW-1 Urmila Boro

. PW-2 Mitali Boro

. PW-3 Binoy Boro

. PW-4 Anjali Boro

. PW-5 Dulu Prasad Saikia

. PW-6 Bimala Rahang

. PW-7 Monica Boro

. PW-8 Naba Kanta Boro

. PW-9 Ratneshwar Ronghang

10. PW-10 Ranu Deka

11. PW-11 Raju Bharali

12. PW-12 Manju Gogoi

13. PW-13 Bhaskar Jyoti Thakuria,

B. Prosecution Exhibits:

N DD oO BR WN

. Ext.1 Statement of Urmila Boro

. Ext.2 Statement of Mitali Boro

. Ext.3 FIR

. Ext.4 Printed copy of the FIR

. Ext.5 Sketch map

. Ext.6 Charge sheet

. Ext.7 GDE Book, containing GDE No.01 to 951

. Defence Witnesses:

. DW-1 Bali Gogoi Bhuyan

11
2. DW-2 Ranu Deka

3. DW-3 Amulya Bhuyan

4. DW-4 Bhawani Prasad Upadhay
5. DW-5 Praneswar Bhuyan

Sessions Case No. 166 of 2017

(A. Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Kamrup (M), Guwahati

12
