1 Sessions Case No.71(NL)2019.

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE : LAKHIMPUR :
AT NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

PRESENT-  M.A.Choudhury,
Sessions Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

SESSIONS CASE NO.71(NL)2019.
Under Section - 376(1) IPC.

PARTIES

State of Assam. ... Complainant.
-versus-

Md. Hazarat Ali. ... Accused.

ADVOCATES APPEARED IN THE CASE :

Mr. Madhab Gogoi, Special Public Prosecutor. ... For the State of Assam.

Mrs. Chitralekha Chutia, Advocate. ... For the Accused.

Date of framing of charge. : 22.05.2019.

Date of taking evidence. : 22.05.2019.

Date of hearing Argument. : 22.05.2019.

Date of delivery of Judgment. : 24.05.2019.
UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution side may, in brief, be
described thus :

The informant, Musstt. Habija Khatun on 27.08.2009
lodged an ejahar with Nowboicha Police Out Post under North
Lakhimpur Police Station to the effect that the victim X is her daughter.
On 26.08.2009 at about 3.30 pm, her daughter victim X went to the
river side situated nearby her house to fetch water. As there was delay
in coming back of her daughter victim X into the house, she went

Contd...
2 Sessions Case No.71(NL)2019.

forward and heard crying of her daughter victim X into the house of the
accused, Md. Hazarat Ali. Then, she entered into the house of the
accused, Md. Hazarat Ali and found the accused, Md. Hazarat Ali was
committing rape upon her daughter victim X. As she raised protest, the
accused Md. Hazarat Ali committed ‘marpit’ upon her person with a

stick causing injuries.

2. On receiving the ejahar, the In-charge of
Nowboicha Police Out Post made a G.D. entry of the same vide
Nowboicha Police Out Post GDE No.378 dtd. 27.08.2009 and forwarded
the same to the Officer-in-charge of North Lakhimpur Police Station for
registering a case under proper sections of Law. On receiving the
ejahar, the Officer-in-charge of North Lakhimpur Police Station
registered a case vide North Lakhimpur P.S. Case No.580/2009 under
Sections 341/ 376/ 323 IPC.

3. The police started the investigation of the case.
In course of investigation, the 1.0. visited the place of occurrence,
prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence and recorded the
statements of the witnesses u/s 161 CrPC. The 1.0. got the victim X
medically examined by the doctor at North Lakhimpur Civil Hospital.
Thereafter, the 1.0. forwarded the victim X along with her mother,
Musstt. Habija Khatun to the court for recording their statements u/s
164 CrPC, and accordingly, the 1.0. got their statements recorded in
the court u/s 164 CrPC. In course of investigation, the 1.0. failed to
arrest the accused, Md. Hazarat Ali as he was evading police arrest.
The 1.0. after completion of investigation of the case on being found
sufficient incriminating materials against the accused, Md. Hazarat Ali
under Section 376 IPC RW Sec.4 of the POCSO Act, accordingly
submitted the charge-sheet against the accused, Md. Hazarat Ali under
Section 376 IPC RW Sec.4 of the POCSO Act showing him as absconder.

4. The accused, Md. Hazarat Ali made his
appearance before the court and necessary copies were furnished to
Contd...
3 Sessions Case No.71(NL)2019.

him and the case started to proceed against the accused as a Special
case under POCSO Act. The charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act had already
been framed against the accused person, which was read over and
explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried. But, thereafter, on 22.05.2019 the case had been
converted from Special (POCSO) case to a Sessions case as on the
date of occurrence i.e., on 26.08.2009, the POCSO Act had not come
into effect. The POCSO Act came into effect in the year, 2012 with no
retrospective effect. Accordingly, the case was renumbered as Sessions
Case No.71(NL)2019. Then, after hearing the learned advocates of both
sides and perusing the case record, on being found sufficient
incriminating materials against the accused person u/s 376(1) IPC, the
charge has been framed against the accused person. The charge was
read over and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. In course of trial, the prosecution side examined
4 (four) witnesses.

6. The recording of the statement of the accused
person u/s 313 CrPC is felt not necessary as because the prosecution
witnesses examined have not implicated the accused person in their

evidence regarding commission of any offence.

7. The accused person denied to adduce any
evidence in his defence.

8. Heard Argument from the learned advocates of
both sides.

9. Perused the case record and the evidence
adduced by the prosecution witnesses in the case very carefully.

Contd...
4 Sessions Case No.71(NL)2019.

10. The point for determination in this case is :

(1) Whether the accused, Md. Hazarat Ali on
26.08.2009 at about 3 pm in his house situated at village Bharalua
gaon under North Lakhimpur Police Station, District Lakhimpur,
committed rape upon the person of the victim X, a minor girl above the
age of 12 years?

11. DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

The prosecution side examined 4 (four) witnesses.
PW.1 is the victim X. PW.2 is Musstt. Habija Khatun, who is the mother
of the victim X as well as informant of the case. PW.3 is Md. Harej Ali,
who is the father of the victim X. PW.4 is Md. Abdul Gofur.

PW.1, the victim X in her evidence stated that the
accused, Md. Hazarat Ali is her cousin. The house of the accused,
Hazarat Ali is situated nearby her house. She in her evidence also
stated that the occurrence had taken place about 10 years back in a
day. She also stated that at the time of occurrence, she had gone to
the river to fetch water. Then, her altercation had taken place with the
accused person. She in her evidence also stated that then she had
come back to her house crying and she informed the matter to her
mother, Musstt. Habija Khatun and her mother, Musstt. Habija Khatun
lodged an ejahar with the Police Station. She in her evidence
specifically stated that the accused person had not committed rape on
her.

This is the evidence adduced by the PW.1, the
victim X. On a careful scrutiny of her evidence, | do not find any
incriminating material in her evidence against the accused person for
committing any offence.

PW.2, Musstt. Habija Khatun is the mother of the
victim X as well as informant of the case. PW.2, Musstt. Habija Khatun
Contd...
5 Sessions Case No.71(NL)2019.

in her evidence stated that the house of the accused, Md. Hazarat Alli is
situated nearby her house. She also stated that the victim X is her
daughter. She in her evidence also stated that the occurrence had
taken place about 10 years back in a day during day time. At the time
of occurrence, she was in her house. She also stated that on the date
of occurrence at about 3.30 / 4 pm, her daughter victim X had gone to
fetch water from the river, which is situated nearby her house. After a
while, her daughter victim X came back to the house crying and on
being asked, the victim X stated that her altercation had taken place
with the accused person nearby the river. She in her evidence also
stated that then, she lodged the ejahar with the Police Station. She
also stated that the victim X stated to her that the accused person had
not performed any sexual act with her ( victim X ). She also stated that
she had lodged the ejahar on misconception.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.2, Musstt.
Habija Khatun, who is the mother of the victim X as well as informant
of the case. On a careful scrutiny of her evidence, | do not find any
incriminating material in her evidence against the accused person for

committing any offence.

PW.3, Md. Harej Ali is the father of the victim X.
PW.3, Md. Harej Ali in his evidence stated that the victim X is his
daughter. He in his evidence also stated that at present, age of his
daughter victim X is 26 years. He also stated that the occurrence had
taken place about 10 years back. At the time of occurrence, he was not
in his house. He in his evidence also stated that on the date of
occurrence in the evening, he came back to his house and then, his
wife, Musstt. Habija Khatun stated to him that on that day at about
3.30 pm, the victim X had gone to the river to fetch water, which is
situated nearby their house, and then the accused, Md. Hazarat Ali had
picked up altercation with his daughter victim X. He in his evidence
also stated that his wife stated that she had lodged the ejahar against
the accused person with the Police Station. He also stated that he
Contd...
6 Sessions Case No.71(NL)2019.

asked his daughter victim X regarding the occurrence, and the victim X
stated to him that her altercation had taken place with the accused
person. He in his evidence also stated that the victim X had stated that
the accused person had not committed rape on her person.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.3, Md. Harej Ali,
who is the father of the victim X. There is no any incriminating material
in his evidence against the accused person for committing any offence.

PW.4, Md. Abdul Gofur in his evidence stated that
he knows the accused, Md. Hazarat Ali, whose house is situated a little
distance away from his house. He also stated that he knows the
informant, Musstt. Habija Khatun and her daughter victim X. He in his
evidence also stated that his house is also situated at a little distance
from the house of Musstt. Habija Khatun. He in his evidence also stated
that he did not know anything regarding the occurrence of this case.
He also stated that on the following day, he came to know from his
nearby people that an altercation had taken place between the
accused, Md. Hazarat Ali and the victim X.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.4, Md. Abdul
Gofur. On a careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not find any
incriminating material in his evidence against the accused person for

committing any offence.

12. Because of what have been discussed and
pointed out here-in-above, it is appeared that the prosecution side has
totally failed to prove the charge under Section 376(1) IPC brought
against the accused, Md. Hazarat Ali. The accused person deserves to
be acquitted.

13. |, therefore, hold the accused, Md. Hazarat Ali
not guilty and acquit him from the charge under Section 376(1) IPC.
The accused person is set at his liberty forthwith.

Contd...
7 Sessions Case No.71(NL)2019.

14. Given under my hand and seal of this court on
this the 24" day of May, 2019.

( M. A. Choudhury )
Sessions Judge,

Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Dictated & corrected by me -

( M.A.Choudhury )
Sessions Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by-
Sri Satyabrata Kshattry, Stenographer.

APPENDIX

1. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE :

PW.1 - Victim X.

PW.2 - Musstt. Habija Khatun, the mother of the victim X as well as
informant of the case.

PW.3 - Md. Harej Ali, the father of the victim X.

PW.4 - Md. Abdul Gofur.

2. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE :
Nil.

3. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE IN THE CASE :
Nil.

4. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE IN THE CASE :
Nil.

( M. A. Choudhury )
Sessions Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
