HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE BILASIPARA

Present:- Smti S. Bhuyan, AJS
Special Judge, Bilasipara
Special (POCSO) Case No- 10 of 2016

u/s 10 of POCSO Act
STATE
Versus

1. Nil Kumar Roy
S/O Lt. Satish Ch. Roy,
R/O Vill- Sasargaon
PS- Sapatgram, Dist- Dhubri, Assam

Accused person

(Corresponding to GR case No- 1639/16 u/s 10 of POCSO Act)

Advocate appeared:-

For the state:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Special P.P.

For the accused:- Smt. Syeda Afruza Akhtar, Advocate.

Date of institution of the case :- 06-10-16
Date of Framing charge :- 27-02-17
Date of prosecution evidence :- 08-02-18, 30-08-18, 30-01-19

Statement of accused recorded on — :- 25-02-19
Date of Argument :- 25-02-19

Judgment delivered :- 28-02-19
2|Page

JUDGMENT
Prosecution Case

1. Prosecution case as reveal from Ext-1 ejahar is that on 05-10-16 at
about 11.00 am while informant’s daughter Miss X; (name changed
hereinafter read as Miss X;) in her class room at Simlabari School, accused Nil
Kumar Roy (head master) came and sit behind her and started to touch
private parts of Miss X; aged about 11 years old. To that Miss X; cried and
rushed to her home and on the same day at about 04.00 pm informant came
to know about the incident from her daughter in law Amina Begum and then
on being asked Miss X; told about the incident to informant and Miss xX;
further stated before the informant that accused Nil Kumar Roy had also
sexually harassed six times to others students Miss Xz, Miss X3, Miss X,, Miss
Xs and Miss X, ( name of all the aforesaid girl are changed and herein after
read as Miss X2, Miss X3, Miss X4, Miss X; and Miss X.) and said 5 students
also narrated about the incident before the public while incident on
informant’s daughter Miss X; came into light. To this fact, informant Anjuma
Bibi lodged written ejahar before O/C Sapatgram PS.
Investigation

2. Officer in charge Sapatgram PS, on receipt of ejahar from informant
Miss Anjuma Bibi registered a police case vide Sapatgram PS case no. 159/16
u/s 10 of POCSO Act and SI Dipak Das was entrusted to conduct the
investigation of the case and after completion of investigation I/O submitted
charge sheet u/s 10 of POCSO Act against the accused Nil Kumar Ray and

cognizance taken.

Charge

3. After hearing learned counsel for both sides and perusal of material
on record charge u/s 10 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused Nil
Kumar Ray and when charges are read over and explained to the accused
person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
Trial

4. In order to prove the prosecution charges against the accused person,
prosecution adduce evidence of all together 10 number of witnesses and
exhibited 7 nos. of documents. PW-1 Samina Bibi, PW-2 Minara Begum, PW-
3 Aklima Akon, PW-4 Anjuma Bibi, PW-5 Miss X; , PW-6 Miss X2, PW-7 Miss
3|Page

X3, PW-8 Miss Xz, PW-9 Miss X;, PW-10 Miss X.. Ext-1 Ejahar, Ext-2, Ext-3,
Ext-4, Ext-5, Ext-6, Ext-7- Statement of victim girls recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
After closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of the accused person
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Accused plea is denial, however declined to adduced

evidence in support of the plea of denial.

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:-

i) Whether accused on 05-10-16 at about 11.00 am at village Simlabari
under Sapatgram PS, committed aggravated sexual assault on victim
girls Miss X; Miss Xz, Miss X3, Miss X,, Miss X5 and Miss X, students

of 1223 No. Simlabari L. P School being headmaster of same school?

ARGUMENT

6. I have heard Id. counsel for both sides. It has been argued by the ld.
defence counsel that informant as well victims of this case did not supported
the prosecution case and from their evidence it is reveal that no such incident
was took place as alleged in the ejahar and therefore accused entitled
acquittal.

PROSECUTION EVIDENCE
7. Evidence of PW-1 Samina Bibi and PW-2 Minara Begum is that they
know informant, victim girls and accused person but they have no knowledge
about the case. Defence declined to cross examine PW-1 and PW-2.
8. PW-3 Aklima Akon deposed she knows informant, victim girls and
accused and her son studied in Simlabari School and she heard that some
altercation took place but she does not have any idea why this case has been
filed. Defence declined to cross examine PW-3.
9, PW-4 Anjuma Bibi is the informant of the case. Her evidence is that
accused is teacher of Simlabari LP School and victims girl are the student of
Simlabari LP School where accused is school teacher. She deposed about 2
years back, one dispute took place in between village people and accused
person and her husband was also one of the member of said dispute and
after altercation, village people filed case against the accused and she put her
Signature on Ext-1 ejahar vide Ext 1 (1). In cross she stated accused had
filed cross case against her husband and villager. She stated the dispute

which was took place about two years back in between village people and
4|Page

accused was settled and presently she has no grievances against the
accused.

10. PW-5 Miss X; deposed informant is her mother and accused was her
primary school teacher. She deposed she heard that two years back some
incident of altercation took place in between villagers and accused Nil Kumar
Roy and her father was also present amongst villagers at the time of
altercation. She deposed accused Nil Kumar Roy did nothing with her. She
further deposed after lodging of ejahar, police produced her before the
doctor for medical examination and also produced her before the Magistrate
wherein she made statement before the Magistrate. She further deposed
presently she is unable to recollect what statement she made before the
Magistrate. Defence declined to cross examine PW-5.

11. PW-6 Miss X2 deposed she knows informant, mother of Miss X; and
accused Nil Kumar Roy who was her primary school teacher. She deposed
she does not know why informant lodged case against the accused as at that
time she was child. She deposed earlier she was produced before the
Magistrate by the police and she made statement before the Magistrate. In
cross she stated no incident was took place with her and accused did
nothing with her.

12. PW-7 Miss X3; deposed she knows informant, mother of Miss X; and
accused Nil Kumar Roy who was her primary school teacher. She deposed no
incident was took place with her and accused headmaster Nil Kumar Roy did
nothing with her and she can’t say why informant lodged case against the
accused. She deposed after lodging of ejahar, two years back, police
recorded her statement and produced her before the Magistrate and she
made statement before the Magistrate but presently she is unable to collect
what statement she made before the Magistrate. Defence declined to cross
examine PW-7.

13. Evidence of PW-8 Miss X, is that she knows informant ,mother of Miss
X; and accused Nil Kumar Ray who was her teacher of 1223 No. Simlabari L.P
School. She deposed she does not know why informant lodged the case.
While she was student of class V, police recorded her statement and
produced her before the court, where in she made statement before the
Magistrate but presently she is unable to recollect what statement she made
before the Magistrate. In cross she stated accused was class teacher of her

primary school and accused did not misbehave with her or other student.
5|Page

14. Evidence of PW-9 Miss X; is that she knows informant, mother of Miss
X; and accused Nil Kumar Roy who was her teacher of 1223 No. Simlabari L.P
School. She deposed she does not know why informant lodged the case and
informant did not talk with her before lodging the case against the accused.
She deposed one day police produced her before the court and she made
statement before the Magistrate and at that time she was student of class V.
She further deposed no incident was took place with her and presently she is
unable to recollect what statement she made before the Magistrate. In cross
she stated accused Nil Kumar Ray was her class teacher of her primary school
and accused did not misbehave with her or with other student. She further
stated she does not know the reason for lodging of the case by the informant
against the accused.

15. PW-10 Miss X, deposed she knows informant, mother of Miss X, and
accused Nil Kumar Ray who was head teacher of her earlier school 1223 No.
Simlabari L.P School. She deposed no incident was took place with her and
she does not know why informant lodged this case. She deposed earlier while
she was student of class V, police brought her from her house and produced
her before the court where in she made statement before the Magistrate. She
further deposed presently she is unable to recollect what statement she made
before the Magistrate. In cross she stated accused Nil Kumar Ray was her
class teacher at her primary school and accused did not misbehave with her
or with other student. She stated she does not know the reason for lodging
the case by informant against the accused.

DISCUSSION, DECISION & REASON THERE OF:-

16. Prosecution allegation leveled against accused Nil Kumar Roy is that

 

on 05-10-16 at about 11.00 am at village Simlabari under Sapatgram PS,
accused Nil Kumar Roy committed aggravated sexual assault on victim girls
Miss X; Miss X2, Miss X3, Miss X4, Miss Xs and Miss X, students of 1223 No.
Simlabari L. P School being headmaster of same school.

17. Now, let me scrutinized the material and evidence on record to find
out whether evidence on record able to establish prosecution charges of
aggravated assault on his students by accused Nil Kumar Ray.

18. PW-4 is the informant of this case. Her evidence pointed two years
back one dispute took place in between village people and accused and her
husband was also present in the said dispute and thereafter village people

lodged ejahar against the accused. Cross of PW-4 is that due to
6|Page

misunderstanding, case has been lodged and said dispute that took place in
between accused and village people is settled. From the evidence of PW-4 it
is seen that she subsequently changed her statement and bring different
story before the court. Evidence of PW-4 made before the court did not
substantiate her statement which PW-4 made in her ejahar. While adducing
before the court, PW-4 did not alleged that accused Nil Kumar Ray had
committed aggravated sexual assault on her daughter PW-1 and other victim
girls at 1223 No. Simlabari L. P School situated at Simlabari village. Thus seen
that PW-4 informant of the case did not support the prosecution case and she
totally overturn the prosecution case.

19. PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and PW-10 are the alleged victim
girls of the case. Their evidence pointed that they all read at 1223 No.
Simlabari LP School and accused Nil Kumar Ray was headmaster of the said
school. PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and PW-10 while adducing their
evidence before the court stated that accused neither misbehaved with them
nor did something to them. Their evidence further shown they have no idea
why this case has been lodged against the accused. PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-
8, PW-9 and PW-10 while adducing their evidence before the court did not
state that accused Nil Kumar Roy had sexually assaulted on them in the class
room on different occasions. Their evidence does not point any incriminating
material against the accused Nil Kumar Roy. Evidence of PW-5, PW-7, PW-8,
PW-9 and PW-10 further pointed they cannot recollect what statement they
made before the court while they were produced before the Magistrate.
Therefore prosecution exhibited documents Ext-2, Ext-4, Ext-5, Ext-6, Ext-7
cannot be acted upon in absence of corroboration from the evidence of PW-5,
PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and PW-10.

20. PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 shown their total ignorance about the incident
and therefore their evidence does not enlighten the prosecution case.

21. Aggravated sexual assault is defined under section 9 of the POCSO

Act, which is read as under-
“9. Aggravated Sexual Assault -
a. Whoever, being a police officer, commits sexual assault on a child-

i. within the limits of the police station or premises where he

is appointed; or
7|Page

ii. in the premises of any station house whether or not
situated in the police station to which he is appointed; or
iii. in the course of his duties or otherwise; or
iv. where he is known as, or identified as a police officer; or
b. Whoever, being a member of the armed forces or security forces,
commits sexual assault on a child-
i. within the limits of the area to which the person is
deployed; or
ii. in any areas under the command of the security or armed
forces; or
iii. in the course of his duties or otherwise; or
iv. where he is known or identified as a member of the
security or armed forces; or
c. Whoever being a public servant commits sexual assault on a child; or
d. Whoever being on the management or on the staff of a jail, or
remand home or protection home or observation home, or other
place of custody or care and protection established by or under any
law for the time being in force commits sexual assault on a child
being inmate of such jail or remand home or protection home or
observation home or other place of custody or care and protection;
or
e. Whoever being on the management or staff of a hospital, whether
Government or private, commits sexual assault on a child in that
hospital; or
f. Whoever being on the management or staff of an educational
institution or religious institution, commits sexual assault on a child in
that institution; or
g. Whoever commits gang sexual assault on a child.
Explanation.- when a child is subjected to sexual assault by one or
more persons of a group in furtherance of their common intention,
each of such persons shall be deemed to have committed gang
sexual assault within the meaning of this clause and each of such
person shall be liable for that act in the same manner as if it were
done by him alone; or
h. whoever commits sexual assault on a child using deadly weapons,

fire, heated substance or corrosive substance; or
8|Page

i. whoever commits sexual assault causing grievous hurt or causing
bodily harm and injury or injury to the sexual organs of the child; or
j- whoever commits sexual assault on a child, which-

i. physically incapacitates the child or causes the child to
become mentally ill as defined under clause (I) of section 2
of the Mental Health Act, 1987 or causes impairment of any
kind so as to render the child unable to perform regular
tasks, temporarily or permanently; or

ii. inflicts the child with Human Immunodeficiency Virus or any
other life threatening disease or infection which may either
temporarily or permanently impair the child by rendering
him physically incapacitated, or mentally ill to perform
regular tasks; or

k. whoever, taking advantage of a child's mental or physical disability,
commits sexual assault on the child; or

I. whoever commits sexual assault on the child more than once or
repeatedly; or

m. whoever commits sexual assault on a child below twelve years; or

n. whoever, being a relative of the child through blood or adoption or
marriage or guardianship or in foster care, or having domestic
relationship with a parent of the child, or who is living in the same or
shared household with the child, commits sexual assault on such
child; or

o. whoever, being in the ownership or management or staff, of any
institution providing services to the child, commits sexual assault on
the child in such institution; or

p. whoever, being in a position of trust or authority of a child, commits
sexual assault on the child in an institution or home of the child or
anywhere else; or

q. whoever commits sexual assault on a child knowing the child is
pregnant; or

r. whoever commits sexual assault on a child and attempts to murder
the child; or

s. whoever commits sexual assault on a child in the course of

communal or sectarian violence; or
9|Page

t. whoever commits sexual assault on a child and who has been
previously convicted of having committed any offence under this Act
or any sexual offence punishable under any other law for the time
being in force; or

u. whoever commits sexual assault on a child and makes the child to
strip or parade naked in public, is said to commit aggravated sexual
assault.”

22. From the scrutiny of entire evidence on record, especially from the
evidence of informant and victim girls it is reveal that their evidence does not
pointed any single material against the accused Nil Kumar Roy and from their
evidence not a single ingredient of section 9 of POCSO Act is coming out
against the accused Nil Kumar Roy. Moreover, their evidence totally over turn
the prosecution case and bring different story that goes in favour of the
accused person.

23. In view of my discussion, and on scrutiny of the entire evidence on
record, I come to my definite finding that prosecution totally failed to bring
home charge u/s 10 of POCSO Act against the accused Nil Kumar Roy.
Accordingly accused Nil Kumar Roy is acquitted from the charge of section 10
of POCSO Act and set at liberty.

24. Bail bond of accused person shall remain stands for next six (6)
months u/s 437(A) Cr.P.C.

25. Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 28" day of February,
2019 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Dictated and Corrected by me,
(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Typed by,
Swmkhwr Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.
10| Page

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

PW-1 Samina Bibi,

PW-2 Minara Begum,

PW-3 Aklima Akon,

PW-4 Anjuma Bibi,

PW-5 Miss Xj,

PW-6 Miss X32,

PW-7 Miss X3,

PW-8 Miss Xz,

PW-9 Miss Xs,

PW-10 Miss Xe.
PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-

Ext-1 Ejahar,

Ext-2, Ext-3, Ext-4, Ext-5, Ext-6, Ext-7- Statement of victim girls
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT EXHIBITS sf NIL
COURT WITNESS - NIL

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
