Page 1 of 9

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SESSIONS CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C
Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

17 of 2016
(Under Section 366 of the IPC, arising
out of G.R. Case No2081/15)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“VSs-
1. Sri Nayan Das
Son of Sri Jaldhar Das,
Resident of No.1 Namonigaon
Police Station — Rangapara,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam.
05/03/2016.

28/04/2016, 28/06/2016.
28/07/2016 & 01-12-2016

01-12-2016

01-12-2016.

01-12-2016.

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Smt. Dulumoni Sinha, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Nayan Das is put for trial for allegation

of charge u/s 366 of the IPC.

2. The facts leading to institution of this case, according to the
FIR in brief is that in the morning of 06-08-2015 the informant’s only

 
Page 2 of 9

daughter, the victim was missing from their home. After vigorous
search they came to know that the accused Nayan Das enticing and
eloped her. But they could not trace out the exact whereabouts of
them. Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by
complainant Bapi Dar on 09-08-2015 before the O/C of Rangapara

Police station.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of
Rangapara Police Station registered Rangapara P.S. Case No. 84/15
u/s 366(A) of IPC. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C
Rangapara Police Station sent up the case u/s 366(A) of the IPC r/w 4
of POCSO Act against the accused Sri Nayan Das.

4. On being appeared the accused person before this Court, my
learned predecessor-in-Court, after hearing both parties, framed
charge u/s 366 of the IPC against the accused Sri Nayan Das.
Particulars of the charge were read over, explained to the accused to

which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as
seven witnesses. After examination of the said seven witnesses,
learned counsel for the accused submitted to close the evidence on the
ground that the statement of the victim no way supported the
prosecution case. Learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur has also
conceded.

On perusal of the statement of the victim including the other
witnesses, I think it would be futile to examine the other witnesses of
this case. Hence, for the interest of justice, prosecution evidence is
closed. Speedy trial is the right of the accused person. Statement of
the accused is recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made
against the accused and the evidence appears against the accused are
put before him for his explanation where he denied the allegation and
declined to adduce defence evidence.

6. I have also heard the argument put forward by the learned

counsels of both sides.

 
Page 3 of 9

7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on 06-08-2015, in the morning accused Sri
Nayan Das induced/kidnapped the victim, with intent to
compel her to marry against her will or inorder that she
may be vorced to illicit intercourse of knowing it likely
that she will be forced to illicit intercourse and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 366 of
the IPC?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the

evidence on record.

9. PW 1 Sri Bapi Dhar stated before the court that he knows the
accused Nayan Das. His house is situated at a distance of less than 2
k.m. from his house. Binita Dhar is his daughter. On 6™ August, 2015
in the forenoon his daughter disappeared from house. He searched for
her in the neighbourhood. She was untraceable for three subsequent
days. Therefore, he had lodged an ejahar at Rangapara P.S. Ext.1 is
the ejahar Ext.1(1) is his signature. The said ejahar was written by a
person called Bimal Das Boro. He wrote the ejahar in his words. After
more than one month his daughter was recovered from the house of
the uncle of the accused at Nalbari. His wife and his brother-in-law had
accompanied police to Nalbari. At that time her daughter was 15 years
old. He also submitted the birth certificate of his daughter to
investigating officer. Ext.2 is the seizure list, Ext.2(1) is his signature.
After recovery, his daughter did not state anything to him. He asked
her to tell him about the facts but she refused to tell. Now his
daughter is in his custody. She has just appeared in the matriculation

examination.

In cross-examination he admitted that his marriage took place
in the month of July, 1999. His daughter was born on 13" September,
2000. At the age of 2 years 3 months he sent his daughter to school

for the first time.

 
Page 4 of 9

10. PW 2, the victim stated that the occurrence took place when
she was promoted to class VIII. The occurrence took place at about 5
a.m. on 06-08-2015. She knows the accused since she was student of
class VIII. On the day of occurrence she called the accused because
they had talks on this issue on the previous day. On the day of
occurrence he told her he will take her to the house of his maternal
uncle at Nalbari. He used to love her and she also loved her and
therefore, she went with him on the day of occurrence. They spent a
day in the house of his maternal uncle at Nalbari. Thereafter they
stayed at a rented house at Chawk Bazar, Nalbari as husband and
wife. They stayed there for the next one month. Thereafter police from
Rangapara accompanied by her mother came to their rented house
and took them back to Tezpur. Thereafter, she was produced before a
Magistrate for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 3 is her
164 Cr.P.C. statement and Ext. 3(1) to 3(5) are her signatures. She
was also subjected to medical examination. At the time of occurrence,

she was 15 years old. Material Ext. 1 is her birth certificate.

In cross-examination she admitted that she does not remember
the year when she was admitted in the nursery class in Gyandeep
Bidya Niketan, Rangapara. From Nursery she studied upoto class VI
when she failed in class VI final examination. Therefore she took
admitted at Rangapara Bengali High School again in the year 2010.
Thereafter she did not fail in class. Therefore in the year 1916 she
passed matric examination. She does not know whether the transfer
certificate was obtained from Gyandeep Bidya Niketan, Rangapara
because her mother used to do all the steps. She also admitted that

the accused did not kidnap her as she eloped with him on her own will.

11. PW 3 Smti Dipika Dhar who is the mother of the victim stated
that the informant is her husband. She knows the accused Nayan Das.
At the time of incident her daughter was only 15 years. The house of
the accused is situated at a distance of less than 2 k.m. from their

house. The incident took place on 6 August, 2015 her daughter

 
Page 5 of 9

disappeared from the house. She searched for her in the
neighbourhood. She was untraceable for three subsequent days. She
was recovered after about one month from Nalbari. The victim was
recovered from a rented house of the accused at Nalbari. The victim
was handed over by the police personnel of Tezpur Police Station. The
victim reported her that on the said day she went to bring flower then
she went to the accused. Then police sent her daughter for medical
examination and also recorded her statement through learned

Magistrate. Police recorded her statement.

12. PW 4 Sri Mridul Dev has stated that he knows the informant
and the accused. He also knows the victim. The incident took place in
the year 2015. On the day of the incident, at about 8 a.m. mother of
the victim informed him that the victim was missing from their home.
During investigation, police seized the birth certificate of the victim in
his presence. Ext. 2 is the said seizurelist and Ext. 2(2) is his signature.

I accompanied police to Nalbari at the time of recovery of the victim.

13. PW 5 Smt. Lovely Sarkar, PW 6 Smt. Konika Dey and PW 7
Smt. Joba Devi no way supported the prosecution case. They stated
that at the time of missing of victim, the mother of the victim reported
them that her daughter was missing. They heard from the villagers

that the victim girl eloped with the accused.
14. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case.

15. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the
prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt.
Firstly, it is the victim who was in love with the accused and it her own
will went with the accused as the victim herself admitted before the
court. Secondly, according to the medical evidence the victim’s age is
above 18 years. Therefore, the alleged charge u/s 366 of the IPC

cannot be attracted.

16. On the other hand, learned Public Prosecutor submitted that

the accused is required to be convicted as per procedure of law.

 
Page 6 of 9

17. Keeping in mind, I am going to dispose of the case as follows:

The most important witness is an abduction case is generally
the kidnapped woman herself and when the victim is not forthcoming,
and the other witnesses are not of a very reliable type, the prosecution
evidence must be carefully scrutinized and weighed. Besides, law is
well settled that the evidence of the woman should be taken with

caution.

Here in the present case, the victim (PW2) herself give
goodbye to the prosecution case by stating that she used to love the
accused and the accused also loved her, therefore she went with the
accused on the day of occurrence at her own will. They stayed a day in
the house of his maternal uncle at Nalbari. Thereafter they stayed at a
rented house at Chawk Bazar, Nalbari as husband and wife. They
stayed there for the next one month. Thereafter police from
Rangapara accompanied by her mother came to their rented house
and took them back to Tezpur. In her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she
also stated that both the accused and she were in love and initially
when Nayal went to Delhi to do some work she could not bear the
situation as she was in deep love with the accuse. Then she herself
rang Nayan and called him to Rangapara. She also went to Rangapara.
The matter came to their parents. In the month of August at the
morning time, she herself rang to Nayan. On 06-08-2015 she without
informing anybody eloped with Nayan. They went to Baihatachariali in
a hired car, then to the house of maternal uncle of Nayan at Nalbari.
They performed marriage at the Mandir. After marriage they lived in a
rented house as husband and wife. They lead a peaceful marital life for
one month eleven days. Therefore, the victim no way supported the
prosecution case. From the statement of the victim, it appears that

there is no any element that (/) kidnapping by the accused or abduction
by him ; (ii) that the person so kidnapped or abducted is a woman ; (iff)
that the accused then intended, or knew that it was likely, -

 
Page 7 of 9

(a) That such woman might or would be
compelled to marry a person against her
will, or

(b) That she might or would be forced or
seduced to illicit intercourse.”

18. Now, the question comes as to her age. According to her at
the relevant time she was 15 years of age. The incident took place on
06-08-2015 the victim was examined on 16-09-2015 that was after
about one month ten days. Doctor after thorough ossification test
remarked that the victim is above 18 years. In the case of Smt.
Kavita Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and others on 13" April,
2012 the Division Bench of Hon’ble Allahabad High Court held that —

“However, we are conscious of the fact that there might be
some dispute regarding the petitioner being aged below 18
years or more than that age, on the date of occurrence, but
we have considered the age recorded in her school records
which was 15-04-1994. We do not have any hesitation in
recording that the lady, Smt. Kavita is aged about 18 years
of age. The medical assessment of age may also not be
conclusive. The determination of age is always in the realm
of being the estimated age on account of scientific exercise.
This is the reason that the Supreme Court in the case of Jaya
Mala V. Home Secretary, Government of Jammu and Kashir,
reported in AIR 1982 SC 1297 had observed that if the age
has been determined by the doctor medically then three
years have to be added to such assessed age. That Judgment
has consistently been followed in the cases of the present
nature to give weightage to assess the age of the victim so
as to appreciating the evidence of minority/majority of the
victim in favour of the accused. In addition to that, it is trite
that if the girl who is at the verge of majority, walks out of
her parent’s house to go with any man, then it could not be a
case of kidnapping as the same could not be said to be an
act of taking away or enticing away a woman below 18 years
of age. “

19. In the instant case, it is the doctor who reported that at the
relevant time the victim was 18 years of age. Besides, there is no

element against the accused as to any of the alleged charge.

 
Page 8 of 9

20. Considering the conduct and act done by the victim coupled
with the aforesaid mandate, we can presume that the victim cannot

said to be a minor at the relevant time of occurrence.

21. In view of the aforesaid discussions based on the evidence and
materials on record, I have come to the conclusion that the
prosecution has failed to prove the charge u/s 366 of the IPC beyond
any reasonable doubt against the accused. As such, the accused is

acquitted from the charge and set him at liberty forthwith.
22. ‘The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

Send back the GR Case record being No. 2081/15 to the

learned committal court along with a copy of this order.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 1* day
of December, 2016.

(A.K. Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(A.K. Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
pe Po Pe

Page 9 of 9

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5

Prosecution Witness No.6

Prosecution Witness No.7

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3

= Sri Bapi Dhar, informant.
:- Victim.

: Smt. Dipika Dhar,

= Sri Mridul Dev

i Smt. Lovely Sarkar.

i= Smt. Konika Dey

:- Smt. Joba Devi @ Deb.

EXHIBITS.

FIR
seizurelist .

164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim

(A.K. Borah)

SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
