PAGE NO: 1 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE (FTC),
DARRANG, MANGALDAI

PRESENT: Mr. J.M.Barman, A.J.S.,
Additional Sessions Judge(FTC),
Darrang, Mangaldai.

Special (POCSO) Case No. 26 of 2018.
(U/S : 376/511 , 354 of I.P.C. R/W 12 of POCSO Act)

(G.R. Case No. 642/2018 arising out of Sipajhar P.S. Case No. 180/18 . )
State of Assam
-Versus-

Birendra Deka,
S/O. Late Megheri Deka,
Vill.- Pithakhowapara,
P.S. Sipajhar,
Dist.- Darrang (Assam),
beeeeaees Accused person.

APPEARANCE:

Advocate for the State : Sri Dulal Kr. Ghosh, learned Addl.P.P.,

Advocate for the accused —_: Sri S.N. Basak, Learned Counsel.

Date of framing charge : 03-05-2019.
Date of prosecution evidence : 31-05-19, 26-06-19, 15-07-19, 28-08-19.

Date of defence evidence : 3.10.2019 & 11.11.2019

Date of argument : 17.12.2019

Date of judgment : 18.01.2020 (on 4.01.2020 judgment could not be delivered, as self

attending the training programme at Assam Judicial Academy, Amingaon)

JUDGMENT
PROSECUTION CASE

1. The prosecution story, in brief, is that informant Pankaj Deka
lodged an F.I.R. before the Officer-In-Charge of Sipajhar Police
Station on 09-03-2018, alleging that on 08-03-2018 in the evening

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 2 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

at about 6.30 P.M his minor daughter along with her friends were
watching T.V programmme in the house of the accused and
thereafter, the accused after closing the T.V. came to keep his
daughter in her house. But on his way, accused person with bad
intention in the “Jungal” on the back side of his house side, gagged
the mouth of his daughter and disrobed her. As his daughter
started hue and cry, neighboring people after hearing the sound
rushed to the place of occurrence and then the accused person fled

away by running. Hence this case.
INVESTIGATION

2. After receiving the ejahar from the informant, the officer-in-
charge, Sipajhar P.S. registered a case as Sipajhar P.S.Case No.
180/18, under section 354 of IPC R/W Section 12 of POCSO Act
and entrusted S.I. Mr. Jadab Ch. Kalita to investigate the case.
Upon completion of investigation, the investigating officer filed
Charge-sheet against the accused Birenbdra Deka under section
354 of IPC read with Section 12 of POCSO Act .

TRIAL

B.. After receiving the case record , from learned Chief Judicial
Magistrate, Darrang, Mangaldai , by learned Sessions Judge,
Darrang Mangaldai , same is registered as Special (POCSO) No. 26
of 2018 and the learned Sessions Judge, Darrang, Mangaldai is
pleased to transfer the case record to this court for trial. After
appearance of the accused person, copies of the relevant
documents were furnished to him and after hearing the submission
of the learned Addl. P.P for the State as well as learned defence
counsel on the point of charge and after going through the relevant
documents as furnished by the investigating officer under section
173 of Cr.P.C, I have found prima facie material against the accused
person under section 376/ 511, 354 of I.P.C read with section 12 of

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 3 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

POCSO Act. Accordingly, charge under the above mentioned
offences were framed against the accused person and contents of
the charges were read over and explained to the accused to which

he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution side has examined as many as 8 (eight)
Nos. of witnesses and exhibited some documents in support of its
case. Thereafter evidence for the prosecution side is closed and
the statement of accused under section 313 Cr.P.C was recorded.
The plea of the accused is of total denial. Accused person also

adduced evidence of two witnesses for his defence.
Points for determination :

(I) Whether on 8-3-18 in the evening at about 6-30 PM, the
accused attempted to commit rape on the victim X, a minor
girl aged 6 years, in a jungle of backside of her house at
village-Pithakhowapara under Sipajhar P.S. and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 376/511

of Indian Penal Code ?

(II) Whether on the same day, time and place the accused used
criminal force on the victim with intent to outrage her
modesty by removing her wearing apparels and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 354 of

Indian Penal Code?

(III) Whether the accused on the same day, time and place
touched the body of the victim, a minor girl and thereby
sexually harassed her and thereby committed an offence
punishable under Section 12 of the POCSO Act?

DISCUSSION , DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 4 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

Ds I have perused the evidence on record and also heard the
submission of learned defence counsel as well as learned Addl.P.P

for State. Let me describe in brief of the prosecution evidence.

6. P.W-1 (Pankaj Deka), the informant deposed that he knows
the accused who is his co-villager. The victim is his daughter. At the
time of incident her age was 6 years. The incident occurred about
1 year 2 months back in the evening at about 6.30 P.M. On the
date of incident, while he returned home from work, his wife told
him that she along with her daughter went to the house of accused
for watching TV. Programme and his wife after watching T.V. came
home earlier and his daughter was watching T.V. in the house of
the accused. Later on while his daughter wanted to come back to
her house, the accused came along with her and then the accused
took his daughter to inside jungle and removed her pant. At that
time his related brother Jayanta came there to urinate and seeing
his daughter, rescued his daughter and brought to their house.
Then the accused fled away. Later on, while he asked his daughter
about the occurrence, she told them the incident as describe
above. On the next day of the occurrence, he lodged the ejahar. He
put thumb impression on the ejahar. Thereafter, police took his
daughter to Sipajhar Hospital for medical examination. The
statement of his daughter was recorded in Mangaldai Court. Police

took a photo copy of Birth Certificate of his daughter from him.

7. In his cross-examination he denied the suggestion put by the
defence side. He denied to a suggestion of defence side that on the
date of occurrence his daughter came to his residence along with
her friend, and accused person was not along with her daughter at

the relevant time, which is denied by this witness.

8. PW-2 Kalpana Deka is the mother of the victim and

deposed in her evidence that accused is her co-villager. The

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 5 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

incident occurred about 12 months back in the evening at about
6.30 P.M. On the date of occurrence she along with her daughter
went to the house of accused for watching T.V programme. After
watching T.V. for some time, she returned back home earlier as her
daughter told her that she would come later. Later on, while his
daughter wanted to come to her home, the accused came along
with her to drop her in her house and then the accused on the side
of the road gagged the mouth of her daughter and pulled his
daughter towards jungle. At that time Jayanta Deka came there to
urinate and had seen the accused and her daughter. PW-2 further
deposed in her evidence that the accused removed pant of her
daughter and his put finger through her (daughter) vegina. While
Jayanta tried to catch the accused, the accused fled away. Jayanta
brought her daughter to her house. On being asked, her daughter
told that the accused gagging her mouth pulled her inside the
jungle and removed her pant. On the next day ejahar was lodged
by her husband. Police provided medical treatment to her daughter
at Sipajhar Hospital. Her daughter was produced before Mangaldai
Court and her statement was recorded. At the time of incident the
age of her daughter was 6 years and was reading in Class-I. Police

had taken a photo copy of Birth Certificate of her daughter.

9. In her cross examination she deposed, near the place of
occurrence, resident of Rameswar Deka, Chandrakanta Deka,
Puspa Deka , Dugdha Deka are situated and all of them came to
the place of occurrence after hearing the hue and cry. She further
deposed in her cross-examination that no any panty of her
daughter was seized by the investigating officer. It also reveals
from her cross-examination that the incident took place after 10
minutes of her reaching home from the residence of the accused
person. She further denied to a suggestion of defence side that her

daughter returned home along with her friends.

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 6 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

10. P.W-3 (Jayanta Deka) deposed in his evidence that the
informant is the son of elder brother of his father and the victim is
his niece. He knows the accused person, he is his co-villager. On
the date of occurrence, in the evening at about 7.00 P.M after
coming back home from work, he went to backside of his residence
to urinate and at that moment Bul Deka on hearing some sound in
the jungle had shouted and then he put on the torch-light in his
hand and then he saw the accused by holding the hands of his
niece running towards home-stead ahead. Then he, along with Bul
Deka and Beli Deka chased the accused. But the accused leaving
his niece alone in the middle of home-stead and went away.
Thereafter Beli Deka brought his niece to the house of Chandra
Kanta. Thereafter the accused came to the court-yard of Chandra
Kanta and stated that he had taken the girl inside the jungle for
giving some fear in her mind about fox. His niece was crying at
that time and taking her half pant in her hands. Thereafter, the

informant lodged the case.

11. He deposed in his cross-examination that the place of
occurrence is situated near his residence. In his cross-examination,
he deposed that his torch light was not seized by the investigating
officer. He denied to a suggestion of defence side that he had some
enmity along with the accused person in the village and due to the
aforesaid enmity he had deposed falsely against the accused

person.

12. P.W-4 (Bul Deka) deposed that he knows the informant, the
accused person as well as the victim. The incident occurred about 1
year 3 months back. On that day after returning from work, he
came to the house of Beli at about 6 P.M. Then he had seen the
victim in the court-yard of Beli and thereafter her mother had taken

her.

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 7 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

13. This witness was declared hostile on the prayer of
prosecution side. Thereafter, he was cross-examined by the

prosecution side as well as defence side.

14. In his cross-examination by defence side, he has stated that
Beli Deka is the son of Chandra Kanta Deka . He has further stated
that he did not see Jayanta and Pankaj in the house of Beli Deka.
He has further deposed that both the informant and the accused

are not his relatives.

15. P.W-5 Dr. Archana Baruah (medical officer) deposed that on
11.3.18 she was posted at Sipajhar PHC as Senior Medical and
Health Officer. On that day at 11.15 AM, she had examined the
victim, 7 years old, according to her guardian, D/O- Pankaj Deka,
vill- Pithakhowapara, PS- Sipajhar escorted by HG Dipali Das. She

examined the victim in presence of GNM Pranita Saharia.
Identification Marks- Bruise over right side 3 c.m.

History of alleged assault: According to her guardian the alleged

assault was done on 9.3.18 at 6 pm.
History of Menstruation —

Physical Examination: Height 3' 4”, Weight- 10.5 KG., Teeth. Hair-
Short, Axillary hair- Not developed, Pubic Hair - Not developed,
Breast- Not developed, Hymen-torn, Vulva-Uterus- Vagina-  Libia;

Mazora- Developed, Libia : Minara- Developed.

Any injury mark in her private parts and her body — Not seen.

Mental condition- Good.
In her opinion- she was raped and her hymen was torn.

16. She exhibited her medical examination report as Ext-1 and

Ext-1(1) is her signature.

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 8 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

17. In her cross-examination she deposed that at the age of

seven years, it is not possible to tear the hymen, while playing.

18. P.W-6, the victim-X {(nmame withheld due to nature of the
offence, herin after referred as victim -X) who is a minor, aged
about seven years, due to which after putting some preliminary
questions to her and after satisfying her answer that she had
matured enough to understand the question put to her, I had

recorded the evidence of the child victim.}

19. PW-6 (Victim-X) deposed that the informant is her father
and the accused is her “Bordeuta” (elder brother of her father).
From the date of the incident she has no talking terms with him.
On the day of incident she and her mother went to the house of
the accused to watch T.V programme and after watching T.V
programme for sometime time, her mother returned home. She
also wanted to come back to home, but the accused asked her to
go later on, as he assured her that he would drop her in her
residence. After some time while the accused was coming to keep
her at her home, on his way to her home, in front of the house of
Jayanta , the accused gagged her mouth by his hands and
thereafter he pulled her in the middle of the jungle and opened
her wearing apparel ie half pant and put his finger on her vegina .
While she attempted to scream, the accused gagged her mouth
and then her uncle Dilip, Jayanta and Bul had seen them. While
her uncles raised hue and cry, the accused was pulling her inside
the jungle. Thereafter the accused left her in the middle of jungle
alone and later on, her uncles Jayanta, Dilip and Bul brought her to
her house. She reported all about the incident to her mother. She
was taken to hospital for her medical examination. Later on, she
gave her statement before the Magistrate and she put her thumb

impression in her statement.

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 9 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

20. In her cross-examination she clarified that while she was
returning home along with the accused person, none of her friends
were along with her. She further deposed in her cross-examination
that she also deposed before the police about the fact of inserting
the finger by the accused person in her vagina. She further denied
to a suggestion of the defence side that she had not deposed the
incident to her mother and she deposed before the court as tutored

by her parents.

21. P.W-7 (Beli Ram Deka) deposed that that he knows the
informant, the accused person as well as the victim. On the day of
occurrence while he was going towards his house after his work,
he had seen the girl taken by her mother on the road in front of his
house. Till date, he had not heard about the incident. This witness

was declared hostile on the prayer of the prosecution side.

22. Thereafter he was cross-examined by the prosecution side

as well as defence side.

23. In his cross-examination by defence side, he stated that the
houses of the accused and the informant are some distance away
from his house and the accused is not his relative. The mother of

the victim did not state anything to him.

24. P.W-8 ( Jadav Kalita), the investigating officer deposed that
on 9-03-2018, he was working as Attached Officer at Sipajhar P.S.
On that day having received the ejahar lodged by the informant,
the officer —in-charge, Sipajhar P.S. registered a case as Sipajhar
P.S. Case No. 180/18, under section 364 of I.P.C. read with 12 of
POSCO Act. Ext-2 is the ejahar and Ext-2(1) is the signature of
officer in charge, Mr. Chandra Kumar Barooah , which he knows.
He found the informant Pankaj Deka in the Police Station and
interrogated him. Thereafter he went to the place of occurrence

and had drawn up a sketch map of the place of occurrence. Ext-3 is

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 10 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

the sketch map and Ext-3(1)is his signature. He found tree leaves
at the place of occurrence in scattered condition. He recorded the
statements of the witnesses near the place of occurrence. As the
victim was minor, he asked the guardian to bring her to the Police
Station. He went in search of the accused, but did not find him out.
On the next day the guardian of the victim girl brought the victim
to the Police Station and the victim was medically examined giving
police requisition through medical officer. On the next day on 11-
03-2018, the statement of the victim under section 164 Cr.P.C was
recorded in the court by the Magistrate. He collected the statement
of the victim from the court. Ext-4 is the statement of the victim
U/S. 164 CrP.C. On 11-03-2018 he arrested the accused after
interrogation and forwarded him to the court. Thereafter on
completion of investigation, he submitted Charge-sheet against the
accused, under section 354 of I.P.C. read with Section 12 of POCSO
Act. Ext-5 is the Charge-sheet and Ext-5(1) is his signature.

25. The prosecution side further confirms the hostile part of the
witness namely Bul Deka and Buli Deka through the investigating

officer.

26. In his cross-examination, he deposed that as per the ejahar
the incident occurred on 8/03/2018 and about 6:30 PM in the
evening and he was entrusted the investigation of the instant case
on 9/03/2018 at about 11:50 AM in the morning. He further
clarified in his cross-examination that, as the victim is a minor, she
could not be examined on 9/03/2018, at the time of examination of
the complainant as because and the relevant time he was in his
official dress and there was no any woman constable along with
him, due to which he asks the guardian to bring the victim and the
police station on the next date. He further deposed in his cross-
examination that he had not seized any wearing apparel of the

victim.

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 11 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

27. Defence side also adduces the evidence of two numbers of
witnesses namely Chandra Kanta Deka as DW-1 and Mr. Narayan
Deka as DW-2.

28. Mr. Chadra Kanta Deka (DW-1) deposed in his evidence that
on the date of occurrence at about 6 to 6:30 PM in the evening, he
was sitting in the baranda of his house and then he saw 3 to 4
numbers of minor girls were coming out from the residence of
accused and proceeding towards Western side. But the daughter of
the complainant ie the victim returned back to his house, and while
he asked as to why she had returned back, she told him that due
to fear she returned back. Thereafter the mother of the victim

came to his house and took her daughter.

29. In his cross examination he deposed that he does not know
the name of the minor girls who were along with the victim girl at
the relevant time of incident. He further explained in his cross-
examination that the residence of three for girls, who came to the
residence of the accused person are near to the residence of the
complainant. He further admitted in his cross-examination that

accused person is his relative.

30. DW-2 Narayan Deka deposed in his evidence that on the
date of occurrence after day’s work, he returned home at about 6
to 6:30 PM in the evening and saw that the victim along with 2 to 3
minor girls came to the residence of his elder brother (accused) for
watching TV programme. He further deposed in his evidence that
after watching the TV programme , all the minor girls went back to

their residence from the residence of accused person.

31. In his cross-examination he deposed that the distance
between his residence and the residence of his elder brother

(accused) is about 24 feet.

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 12 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

32. Learned Addl. P.P appearing on behalf of the state submitted
in his argument that in the instant case the evidence of the victim
inspire confidence, and in the basis of the evidence of the victim
the accused person can be convicted. Moreover the other witnesses
also supported the version of the victim. According to him as the
prosecution side able to prove the charge against the accused
person beyond all reasonable doubt, he therefore prays to convict

the accused person as per procedure of law.

33. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused person
during his argument submitted that in the instant case prosecution
side examined a related witnesses of the victim and hence reliance
cannot be place in their evidence. He further submitted that
witness Jayanta Deka in his evidence specifically deposed that he
had identified the accused on the light of the torch light, but
aforesaid torchlight was not seize by the investigative officer during
investigation. Moreover according to him the prosecution side failed
to examine some of the material witnesses ie Dilip Deka who was
present at the place of occurrence as per version of the victim.
Moreover delay was cause in lodging the ejahar and hence same is
fatal to the prosecution side. Learned defence counsel further
pointed out that there are a lot of contradiction in the evidence of
the victim as well as the other prosecution witnesses for which the
whole prosecution case is not reliable at all. He further pointed out
that although in the instant case as per version of the victim,
witness Bul Deka , Jayanta Deka and Beli Deka had seen the
occurrence, but Bul Deka and Beli Deka has not supported the
prosecution story in both of them are declared hostile by the
possession side. He further pointed out that where there are two
views, appeared in the evidence of prosecution side, the view
supporting the accused side, has to be accepted and accordingly he

prays to acquit the accused as the prosecution side failed to prove

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 13 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

the charge against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubts. To support his contention he has referred the following

judgement-
a. 2005 Cri L.J 2152 ( Hem Raj & others —-vs- state of Haryana)
b. 2017 Crl.L.J 169 ( Harbeer Singh —-vs- state of Rajasthan )

c. 1996 Supply (4) scr 631 (State of U.P -VS- Ramesh Prasad
Mistra & another )

d. 2017 Crl. LJ 418 ( Manoj Kumar Sharma -vs- state of
Chhattisgarh & another)

e. 2007 (2) GLR 445 ( Parimal Gowala & others —vs- state of
Tripura )

f. 1998 Crl. L.j 4044 ( Panchi & others —vs- state of U.P)

34. I have heard the submission of learned counsels appearing
on behalf of accused person as well as prosecution side and
meticulously scan the evidence of the prosecution side as well
defence side.

35: In the instant case, the investigating officer has not seized
any birth certificate or the school certificate of the victim, although
it reveals that the victim is a school going girl. The complainant
(PW-1), who is the father of the victim while lodging the ejahar
before the police station, mention the age of her daughter as 6
(six) years in the ejahar. The victim, while deposing before the
court deposed her age as 7 (seven) years. The victim while giving
her statement recorded by the Judicial Magistrate under section
164 of CR.P.C, has mention her age as 6 (six) years, which was
taken by learned JMFC , Darrang Mangaldai on 12.03.18. The
medical officer who had examined the victim also mention the age

of the victim in her report (Ext-1) as 7 years. On physical

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 14 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

appearance also, while the victim appeared before the court for
adducing evidence, it appears the victim is about 6-7 years old girl.
The defence side also has not disputed the age of the minor girl.
So it is proved that at the time of occurrence the victim is a minor,

aged about 6-7 years.

36. In the instant case prosecution side charged the accused
person under section 376/ 511, 354 of IPC of IPC read with section
12 of POCSO Act.

37. Before I proceed further, let me first define section 375 of
IPC.

38. Section 375 defines rape. It reads as:

A man is said to commit "rape" who, except in the case hereinafter
excepted, has sexual intercourse with a woman_ under
circumstances falling under any of the six following descriptions:-
First: Against her will.

Secondly: Without her consent.

Thirdly: With her consent, when her consent has been obtained by
putting her or any person in whom she is interested in fear of
death or of hurt.

Fourthly: With her consent, when the man knows that he is not her
husband, and that her consent is given because she believes that
he is another man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully
married.

Fifthly: With her consent, when, at time of giving such consent, by
reason of unsoundness of mind or _ intoxication or the
administration by him personally or through another of any
stupefying or unwholesome substance, she is unable to understand
the nature and consequences of that to which she gives consent.
Sixthly: With or without her consent, when she is under sixteen
years of age.

Explanation: Penetration is sufficient to constitute the sexual

intercourse necessary to the offence of rape.

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 15 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

Exception: Sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the
wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape.

39. On the basis of above-mentioned ingredient, let me now
scrutinize the evidence of the victim to see whether the star
witness is able to prove the ingredient of the offence mention
above.

40. From the evidence of the victim (PW-6), it is evident on the
date of occurrence she along with her mother went to the
residence of accused person at about 6 to 6:30 PM in the evening
for watching TV programme, and her mother (PW-2) after watching
TV programme for some time, returned back home. Although she
also wanted to come back along with her mother, but accused
asked her to watch TV programme, and assured her that he will
drop her in a residence later on. It is also evident from the
evidence of the victim that after sometimes the accused person
came out along with the victim to drop her in her residence, and on
the way near the residence of Jayanta Deka, accused person
gagged her mouth and took her toward the Jungle nearby the
road. Thereafter accused person disrobed her by removing her
panty and inserted his finger through her vegina. While she tried to
raise hue and cry, accused gagged her month. According to the
victim at that moment her uncle namely Dilip, Jayanta and Bul had
seen the accused person along with her. It is also evident from the
evidence of the victim that while aforesaid persons raise hue and
cry, accused person took her towards jungle and thereafter left her
alone inside the jungle.

41. The aforesaid fact fully corroborated by her mother (PW-2)
regarding coming to the residence of the accused person along
with her daughter for watching TV programme and after watching
sometimes she came back to her residence alone as her daughter

wanted to return lateron after watching some TV programme.

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 16 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

42. The presence of the victim at the relevant time of incident in
the residence of the accused person also admitted by both the
defence witnesses, as both of them deposed that in the evening
time they had seen the victim in the residence of the accused
person along with 2/3 minor girls, who came for watching TV
programme.

43. PW-3 Jayanta Deka also corroborated the evidence of the
victim regarding witnessing the accused person with the victim
inside the jungle on the back side of his residence. It is evident
that on the date of occurrence after coming back home, he went
back side of his residence for urinate, then heard the commotion of
Bul Deka having witnessing someone inside the jungle and while he
(PW-3) put on his torchlight, he had seen the accused person along
with the victim inside the jungle. It is also evident from his
evidence that thereafter accused person took the victim toward the
Basti and he along with the Bul Deka chased the accused person,
and recovered the victim.

44. The evidence of the victim also corroborated with the
statement given by her before the Judicial Magistrate under section
164 of CRPC.

45. Now while appreciating the evidence of the victim, it reveals
that while the accused person took her towards a jungle, on his
way to drop her in her residence, he forcefully removes the panty
and inserted his finger inside her vegina. The aforesaid evidence
also deposed by her, while giving her statement before the Judicial
Magistrate under section 164 of CRPC. But the aforesaid facts
regarding insertion of finger through her vegina was not deposed,
while giving her statement before the investigating officer section
161 of CRPC. The mother (PW-2) of the victim also although
corroborated all the other facts, the regarding the removing of the

panty of the victim by the accused person inside the jungle, has

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 17 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

not deposed about the fact of inserting of finger through the
vegina of the victim in her statement given before the police.

46. In an offence of rape, the prosecution side has to prove the
penetration to prove the offence of commission rape by the
accused person to the victim. No offence under Section 376 IPC
can be made out unless, there was penetration to some extent. In
absence of penetration to any extent would not bring the offence
of accused within the four corners of Section 375 of the Indian
Penal Code. Therefore, the basic ingredients for proving a charge
of rape are the accomplishment of the act with force. The other
important ingredient is penetration of the male organ within the
labia majora or the vulva or pudenda with or without any emission
of semen or even an attempt at penetration into the private part of
the victim completely, partially or slightly would be enough for the
purpose of Sections 375 and 376 IPC.

47. The ingredients of the offence have also been examined by
the Kerala High Court in the case of State of Kerala v.
Kundumkara Govindam (1969 Cr.L.J 818) . The Hon’ble Court
observed as under: "The crux of the offence u/s 376 IPC is
rape and it postulates a sexual intercourse. The word
“intercourse” means sexual connection. It may be defined
as mutual frequent action by members of independent
organization. By a metaphor the word "intercourse" like
the word "commerce" is applied to the relation of sexes. In
intercourse there is temporary visitation of one
organization by a member of the other organization for
certain clearly defined and limited objects. The primary
object of the visiting organization is to obtain euphoria by
means of a detent of the nerves consequent on the sexual
crisis. There is no intercourse unless the visiting member Is
enveloped at least partially by the visited organization, for

intercourse connotes reciprocity. In intercourse between

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 18 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

thighs the visiting male organ is enveloped at least
partially by the organism visited, the thighs; the thighs are
kept together and tight."

48. Keeping in mind of the aforesaid criteria, although there is
evidence to outrage the modesty of the victim, but there is no any
evidence of rape upon the victim. Moreover, although the medical
officer (PW-5) in her evidence deposed before the court that rape
was committed upon the victim, but in a report (Ext-1) she has not
uttered a word regarding commission of rape upon the victim. It
appears from the report of the medical officer that although she
has examined the victim, on the basis of the requisition given by
the investigating officer for medical examination, but strangely she
has not filled up the format, by giving her opinion in the report and
filed the same before the court.

49. Now, question is whether the act of the accused person by
which he forcefully taking the victim inside the jungle nearby the
road and removed her panty at night ie in a lonely area at night
can be term to out raged the modesty of the victim.

50. Section 354 of IPC reads as under: " Assault or
criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her
modesty.- Whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any woman,
intending to outrage or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby
outrage her modesty, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine,
or with both."

51. The essential ingredients of the offence under Section
354 IPC are as under:

a) that the person assaulted must be a woman.
b) that the accused must have used criminal force on her; and
c) that the criminal force must have been used on the woman

intending thereby to outrage her modesty.

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 19 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

52. So far as the offence under Section 354 IPC is concerned,
intention to outrage the modesty of the women or knowledge that
the act of the accused would result in outraging her modesty is the
gravamen of the offence. The essence of a woman's modesty is her
sex. The culpable intention of the accused is the crux of the matter.
The reaction of the woman is very relevant, but its absence is not
always decisive. Modesty is an attribute associated with female
human beings as a class. It is a virtue which attaches to a female
owing to her sex.

53. The ultimate test for ascertaining whether the modesty of a
woman has been outraged, assaulted or insulted is that the action
of the offender should be such that it may be perceived as one
which is capable of shocking the sense of decency of a woman. A
person slapping on the posterior of a woman in full public glare
would amount to outraging her modesty for it was not only an
affront to the normal sense of feminine decency but also an affront
to the dignity of the lady.

54. The Hon’ble Apex Court in Bishewhwar Murmu v. State
2004 CrLJ 326 (Jharkhand) held that_"The evidence showed
that accused caught hold hand of informant/victim and when one
of the prosecution witnesses came there hearing alarm of victim,
offence u/s 376/511 was not made out and conviction was
converted into one u/s 354 for outraging modesty of victim."

55. In the instant case, also as I discuss earlier there is sufficient
evidence against the accused person 354 of I.P.C, as the accused
person on the night of occurrence in lonely place, took the victim
inside the jungle and removed her panty by gaging her mouth so
that she could not be able made hue and cry. By that act, accused
used criminal force to out rage the modesty of the victim girl.

56. In a sexual offence, there is hardly any eyewitness of the
incident as the offender always took the precaution to conceal his

presence at the place of occurrence. In the instant case also, the

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 20 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

accused person took all the precaution to commit the crime so that
none can seen his illegal act. The fact that mother of the victim
along with her daughter went to watch TV programme in the
residence of the accused person itself shows that there is a
relationship between the family members of both the parties, and
hence accused person told the mother of the victim that he will
drop the victim in her home later on, she (mother) took his
assurance easily. Even while the accused person took the victim to
drop her in her resident, she without any fear/ objection came with
him, but taking advantage of the innocence of the minor victim,
accused person on a lonely place gagged the mouth of the victim
and forcefully taken her inside the jungle and disrobed her by
removing the panty of the victim. From the conduct of the accused
person, it is clear that he has taken all the precaution so that none
can even suspect him while committing the alleged crime on the
minor victim.

57. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused person
during his argument pointed out the victim being the minor, there
is every possibility of tutoring her by her parent and in that
circumstances, it will not be safe to rely her evidence in toto.

58. Now, question is, as victim being the minor, whether her
testimony can’t be be accepted as a whole simply on the ground
that there is a scope for tutoring her evidence, although she has
deposed reliable piece evidence? In this regard my attention goes
through following judgment delivered by Apex Court.

59. In Dattu_ RaMr. ao Sakhare v. State of Maharashtra,
(1997) 5 SCC 341 the Supreme Court explained:” A child
witness if found competent to depose to the facts and
reliable one such evidence could be the basis of conviction.
In other words even in the absence of oath the evidence of
a Child witness can be considered under Section 118 of the

Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 21 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

understand the questions and able to give rational answers
thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility
thereof would depend upon the circumstances of each
case. The only precaution which the court should bear in
mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness is that
the witness must be a reliable one and his/her demeanour
must be like any other competent witness and there is no
likelihood of being tutored."

60. In State of U.P. vs. Krishna Master and Ors., AIR
2010 SC 3071, while dealing with the testimony of child witness,
the Hon'ble Apex Court held that the child at a tender age is

incapable of having any malice or i/! will against any person

 

and there must be something on record to satisfy the court
that something had gone wrong between the date of the
incident and recording the evidence of the child witness
due to which the witness wanted to implicate the accused
falsely in a case of serious nature.

61. In 'State of U.P. v. Krishna Master' : AIR 2010 SC
3071, the Supreme Court held : "There is no principle of law
that it is inconceivable that a child of tender age would not
be able to recapitulate the facts in his memory. A child fs
always receptive to abnormal events which take place in
his life and would never forget those events for the rest of
his life. The child may be able to recapitulate carefully and
exactly when asked about the same in the future. In case
the child explains the relevant events of the crime without
improvements or embellishments, and the same inspire
confidence of the court, his deposition does not require any
corroboration whatsoever. The child at a tender age is
incapable of having any malice or il! will against any
person. Therefore, there must be something on record to

satisfy the court that something had gone wrong between

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 22 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

the date of incident and recording evidence of the child
witness due to which the witness wanted to implicate the
accused falsely in a case of a serious nature."

62. While assessing the evidence of the minor victim, it reveals
although she at the relevant time of incident is of tender age, but
it found that she possess intellectual capacity to understand the
question and give a rational answered to question put by the court
before recording her evidence before the court. Even in her cross-
examination, defence side could not demolish her evidence on
material points. Hence, in my opinion, there is no any scope to give
a second thought she is being tutored. Where the victim has
adduced a reliable piece of evidence and other prosecution
witnesses also corroborated the same, in my considered opinion,
accused can be convicted basing upon the prosecution evidence.

63. In the instant case, as I discuss earlier the evidence of the
victim is reliable and trustworthy, and she could not be demolished
by the defence side on the material point. The defence side failed
to prove any enmity along with the complainant, so that an
inference could be drawn against the complainant lodging a false
case against the accused to take revenge or the victim deposing
falsely. Rather it appears from the evidence of the mother as well
as the victim, that both the family, prior to the incident has visiting
terms, as they are the neighbouring people.

64. Hence in my opinion, although the victim is a tender age
child, but her evidence is reliable and trustworthy and her evidence
is intact at the time of cross-examination of the defence side. I
have not found any valid reason to discard her evidence. In my
opinion prosecution side has been able to prove that the accused
person with a guilty mens rea, by taking advantage of lonely place
forcefully took the minor victim nearby jungle and removed her
panty, thereby using criminal force upon the victim to outrage her

modesty. The accused person failed to rebut the evidence of the

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 23 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

victim through any effective cross-examination of the victim as well
as the other prosecution witnesses and through his defence
evidence. The accused person at the time of recording his
statement under section 313 of CRPC, although put the
incriminating evidence against him, but surprisingly except mere
denial, he failed to explain the incriminating evidence against him.

65. Where the prosecution side is able to prove the initial burden
against the accused, naturally the provision of section 29 of POCSO
act ie the presumption against the accused regarding commission
of sexual assault upon the victim will arise. Moreover, as I discuss
earlier, the presumption of culpable mental state as defined under
section 30 of POCSO Act also can be taken against the accused, as
the accused person has taken all precaution before committing the
sexual assault upon the victim, that is, he selected the road where
there is is no any rash of people , and then overpowered the victim
by gagging her mouth and took her nearby jungle to commit the
sexual assault, and all those conduct, of the accused person who is
a married person having children, itself shows he has the required
mens rea to commit the offence and as per his plan he committed
the sexual assault upon a helpless minor child.

66. It is a settled principle of law that in a case of sexual assault
upon the victim, a conviction can be based on the sole testimony of
the victim, if same is found a reliable and trustworthy.

67. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh, (1996) 2 SCC 384,
referring to State of Maharashtra _v. Chandraprakash
Kewalchand Jain, (1990) 1 SCC 550, the Hon'ble Supreme
Court held that "/t must not be overlooked that a woman or
a girl subjected to sexual assault is not an accomplice to
the crime but is a victim of another person's lust and It is
Improper and undesirable to test her evidence with a
certain amount of suspicion, treating her as if she were an

accomplice. It has also been observed in the said decision

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 24 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

that testimony of the victim in such cases is vital and
unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate
looking for corroboration of her statement, the courts
Should find no difficulty to act on the testimony of a victim
of sexual assault alone to convict an accused where her
testimony inspires confidence. Seeking corroboration of
her statement before relying upon the same, as a rule, in
such cases amounts to adding insult to injury”.
Related witness:

68. In the instant case, learned defence counsel during his
argument submitted that in the instant case prosecution side
examined the related witnesses ie their family member and hence
their evidence cannot be relied upon.

69. In AIR 1952 SC54 (Rameshwar v. State of Rajasthan )
hon’ble Apex Court held that "A witness is normally to be
considered independent unless he or she springs from
sources Which are likely to be tainted and that usually
means unless the witness has cause, such as enmity
against the accused, to wish to implicate him falsely.
Ordinarily a close [relative] would be the last to screen the
real culprit and falsely implicate an innocent person. It is
true, when feelings run high and there is personal cause
for enmity, that there is a tendency to drag in an innocent
person against whom a witness has a grudge along with
the guilty, but foundation must be laid for such a criticism
and the mere fact of relationship far from being a
foundation Is often a sure guarantee of truth.”

70. In (1981) 3 SCC 675 (Hari Obula Reddy v. State of
A.P.) , the Hon’ble Apex Court has ruled that evidence of
interested witnesses per se cannot be said to be unreliable
evidence. Partisanship by itself is not a valid ground for discrediting

or discarding sole testimony and Hon’ble Apex Court held that

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 25 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

"An invariable rule that interested evidence can never form
the basis of conviction unless corroborated to a material
extent in material particulars by independent evidence. All
that is necessary is that the evidence of interested
witnesses should be subjected to careful scrutiny and
accepted with caution. If on such scrutiny, the interested
testimony is found to be intrinsically reliable or inherently
probable, it may, by itself, be_ sufficient, in the
circumstances of the particular case, to base a conviction
thereon.”

71. In the instant case also, some of the prosecution witnesses
although the family member of the victim, but they have put
forward a reliable piece of evidence in their evidence cannot be
discarded only on the ground that they are related to the victim.

72. Learned counsel during his argument further pointed out
that in the instant case the investigating officer failed to seize the
torchlight by which PW-3, able to identify the accused person and
hence same is fatal to the prosecution side. In my opinion the
aforesaid submission of the learned defence counsel cannot be
sustained, as because accused in a nearby resident of the victim,
and called accused as “ bardeuta” ( elder brother of her father),
and hence there is no question arise regarding the identification of
the accused person and in that circumstances non- seizure of the
torchlight of PW-3 has no any relevancy in the instant case and not
fatal to the prosecution case.

73. Learned counsel during argument further pointed out non
examination of material witnesses as well as contradiction among
the witnesses which are fatal to the prosecution side.

74. I have already discussed that in the case upon sexual assault
upon a woman, the accused person can be convicted on the basis
of sole testimony of the victim, if the evidence of the victim is

found reliable and genuine. In the instant case I have already hold

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 26 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

that the evidence of the victim is found reliable and trustworthy on
the basis of which the accused person can be convicted. Moreover
the other prosecution witnesses also supported the version of the
victim. Hence non-examination of Dilip Deka, as per version of the
defence side cannot be held fatal to the prosecution side.

75. Moreover, Hon’ble Apex court as well as our own High Court
in catena of judgement observed that the court while assessing
the evidence of the witnesses in a criminal trial, normal
discrepancies are bound to occur in the depositions of witnesses
due to normal errors of observation, namely, errors of memory due
to lapse of time or due to mental disposition such as shock and
horror at the time of occurrence. Where there is a minor
contradiction, on trivial matters which do not affect the core of the
prosecution case, should not be made a ground on which the
evidence can be rejected in its entirety.

76. In the instant case also there is no any major contradiction
among the deposition of the witnesses on the material point and
hence in my opinion said minor contradiction is not fatal to the
prosecution case.

77. Regarding the question of delay in lodging the ejahar as
raise by the learned defence counsel during his argument , in my
considered opinion in the instant case there is no any inordinate
delay in lodging the ejahar. As per ejahar, the incident occurred on
8.03.18 at about 6:30 PM in the evening, and the complainant had
lodged the ejahar before the officer in charge of Sipajhar police
station on 9.03.18 at about 11:50 AM in the morning. Hon’ble Apex
court in a catena of judgement held that in a sexual offence
committed upon a woman, some delay in lodging the ejahar, is not
fatal in every case. The incident occurred at night and in the
morning time on the next date, the complainant (father of the
victim) had lodged the ejahar before police relating to the incident

and in my considered opinion the aforesaid delay of some hours is

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 27 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

not at all fatal to the prosecution case. Moreover the judgment
referred by the defence side in support of their plea, is not related
to the facts and circumstances of the instant case and hence

cannot be relied upon.

78. Considering all this aspect, in my opinion, in the instant case,
prosecution side is above to prove the charges against the accused
person namely Birendra Deka under section 354 of I.P.C. In my
considered, there is no sufficient evidence against the accused
person under section 376/ 511 of I.P.C read with section 12 of
POCSO Act. I therefore acquitted the accused person from the
offence punishable under section section 376/ 511 of I.BC read
with section 12 of POCSO Act. But I have sufficient incriminating
evidence against the accused 354 of I.P.C against the accused
person and accordingly I found the accused guilty for committing

the offence punishable under section 354 of I.P.C.

79. Heard the convicts Birendra Deka on the point of sentence.
The convict at the time of hearing upon the sentence deposed
before the court that he has his wife and 5 numbers of children out
of which two numbers of sons and three numbers of daughters and
all of them are now major and married. He further submitted both
of his sons have been living separately and his wife has been living
with him. Hence he pleads for taking a lenient view in imposing

the sentence against him.

80. I have also heard the submission of learned Addl. P.P namely
Mr. Dulal Chnadra Ghosh and learned defence counsel on the point
of sentence of the convict. The conduct of the convict, being a
married person having grandsons/daughters of same age, as of the
victim, and by taking advantage of innocence of the victim, using
of criminal force upon her while removing her panty , amount to
outrage her modesty and conduct of the accused person on the

date on occurrence at night on the helpless minor , does not allow

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 28 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

my conscience to deal the matter leniently. In my opinion it is the
duty of the court to impose appropriate punishment as per law
when the prosecution side is able to prove the charges against a

person.

81. Accordingly, convict Birendra Deka is sentenced to undergo
R.I for 2 years with fine of Rs. 3,000/- (Rupees three thousand),
in-default of payment of fine, to undergo S.I for 4 (four) months
under Section 354 of I.P.C. The period of detention already
undergone by the accused is to be set off. If the fine is realized
from the accused person, then the whole amount be given to the

victim as compensation under section 357 of Cr.P.C.

82. Send the Convict to Jail Hazot to serve the sentence as

mention above. Bail bond stands cancelled.

83. Furnish a free certified copy of judgment to the convict
immediately.

84. Furnish a copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate,
Darrang Mangaldai , under Section 365 Cr.P.C.

85. Judgement is delivered in open court.

86. Given under my hand and seal of this court on this 18" day

January, 2020 at Darrang, Mangaldai.

Sd- J.M Barman

Special Judge, Darrang, Mangaldai

Transcribed and typed by:

Smti_S.Devi.( Stenographer).

APPENDIX:

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
PAGE NO: 29 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 26 OF 2018.

Prosecution witnesses:

PW:1- Pankaj Deka (informant )
PW:2- Kalpana Deka

PW:3- Jayanta Deka

PW:4- Bul Deka

PW:5- Dr. Archana Baruah (M.O.)
PW:6- Geetanjali Deka (victim)
PW:7-Beli Ram Deka

PW:8-Jadav Kalita (I.0.)

Prosecution exhibits:

Ext:1- Medical Examination Report

Ext:2- Ejahar

Ext:3- Sketch map

Ext:4- Statement of the victim recorded U/S. 164 Cr.P.C
Ext:5- Charge-sheet

Defence witnesses :
Nil.
Defence exhibits :

Nil.

Sd- J.M Barman
Special Judge, Darrang, Mangaldai

STATE-VS- BIRENDRA DEKA
