 

we”

Special Judge,
Chirang, Kalaigsoe

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::::::: CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

ial(P No. 15(D)/2
U/S 366 IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam
V5

Shaharuk Hussain @ Saruk Ali ...... Accused

PRESENT : Sri D.J. Mahanta,

Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.
ADVOCATES APPEARED:
For the State - Sti D. Das, Public Prosecutor
For the accused ‘ Sri S. Alam, Advocate
Date of evidence : 27.04.2018

Date of Argument : 16.05.2018
Date of Judgment : 16.05.2018

JUDGMENT AND ORDER

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 23.03.2016 the
informant Jahidul Islam lodged an FIR before Dhaligaon P.S. alleging that on
22.03.2016 at about 7.30 PM, his 16 years old daughter was missing from the
house. On searching, the informant came to know that the accused Saruk Ali
had taken with her daughter and kept her hidden in an unknown place.

2. After receiving the FIR, the O/C of Dhaligaon P.S. registered a
case being Dhaligaon P.S, Case No. 53/16 U/S 366(A) IPC and entrusted A.S.1.
Abdus Swahed to investigate the case. Accordingly, the Investigating Officer
arrested the accused, visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement
of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got recorded her
statement u/s 164 CrPC, collected the medical report and after completion of

investigation, submitted charge-sheet against the accused Shaharuk Hussain
Ww

b
nye

Special Judge,
Chirang, Kajsigsoe

@ Saruk Ali U/S 366 IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act. Later on, accused
person was released on bail. After receiving charge sheet, copies of relevant
documents were furnished to the accused person. On perusal of entire
materials on record and hearing both sides and after having found a prima
facie case, my learned predecessor framed charge U/S 366 IPC read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused. Charge was read over and
explained to the accused to which he denied to plead guilty.

a

In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as 3

(three) witnesses.

3.

Following witnesses are examined:-
(1) Md. Jahidul Islam as PW 1

(2) Musstt. Julima Khatun as PW 2
(3) Victim as PW 3

FIR was exhibited as Ext. 1. Statement of the victim U/S 164

Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext, 2.

Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.
Heard argument from both sides.

Ww points for ideration:-
For the offence U/S 366 of IPC

Whether on 22.03.2016 at 7.30 PM at Village Bortaloa under
Dhaligaon P.S., the accused kidnapped the victim, the daughter
of the informant, a woman with intent (or knowing it to be
likely) that she might be compelled to marry him against her
will or in order (or knowing it to be likely) that she might be
forced (or seduced) to illicit intercourse with him ?

For the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act
 

Giirang. Kaisigaor

2. Whether on the said date and place, the accused committed

penetrative sexual assault on the victim ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

9. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record regarding above mentioned points.

10. PW 1 is the informant of this case and he is the father of the
victim. He deposed that at the time of occurrence, his daughter was reading in
Class X and her age was about 18/19 years. She failed 3/4 times in lower
Classes. Occurrence took place on 22.03.16 and on that day his daughter was
missing from his house. At that time, he was in his shop. After getting the
information of missing, he searched different places but failed to recover her.
On next day, he lodged FIR before Dhaligaon P.S. After one year, he got
information from police that his daughter was recovered. He met his daughter
in the Court premise when she was taken for recording her statement. Then
he knew that his daughter eloped with the accused. He had no knowledge if
there was any love affection between the accused and the victim. Since the
date of occurrence, the accused and the victim are living as husband and wife.
He proved the FIR as Ext.1 and his signature as Ext.1(1). During his cross-
examination, he stated that the victim was admitted to lower primary school
by his younger brother and his brother did not know the date of birth of his
daughter. He further stated that he collected the birth certificate after 12
years from her birth and he gave her date of birth on assumption. He has no
any allegation against accused, as both of them are living together as
husband and wife peacefully.

Ti. PW 2 is the wife of the informant and mother of the victim. She
deposed that occurrence took place about 2 years ago and at the time of
occurrence, the age of the victim was about 18/19 years. On that day her
daughter went to outside but did not return. She informed the matter to her
husband through phone. They searched in different places but failed to
recover her daughter. She was missing for a period of 4/5 months. Police

recovered the girl. Later on, she knew that both of them were missing
go
bye

Special Judge.
Chirang. Kaisigaon

according to their own will. If there was love affection between them, she had
no knowledge. After that they are living together as husband and wife after

performing marriage. She has no any allegation against the accused.

12. The victim who is the important witness in this case was
examined as PW 3. She deposed that occurrence took place about 2 years
ago. At that time, she appeared in Matric examination. She failed in Class-V
and Class-IX. She had love affairs with the accused. She voluntarily went with
the accused to Abhayapuri. Her family members did not know. She stayed at
Abhayapuri for 3/4 months. Thereafter, they got married at Abhayapuri Court.
Since then they are living together as husband and wife. Thereafter, they lived
together at Lengtisinga for two months as husband and wife. She came to the
Police Station alone. On being informed, her father also came. She met her
father after 5/6 months. Her father did not know. Police sent her for medical
examination and got her statement recorded by a Magistrate. She stated the
same thing before the Magistrate as stated by her before this Court. She
proved her statement U/S 164 CrPC as Ext.2 and her signature as Ext.2(1). At
that time, she told her age as 18 years. At present, they are leading conjugal
life and a son is also born from their wedlock. His age is about 1 '%2 years.
During her cross-examination, she admitted that she told her age as 18 years
before the Magistrate.

13. After going through the entire evidence given by three material
witnesses, I have found that at the time of occurrence age of the victim was
about 18/19 years. Victim clearly stated that her age was 18 years but no any
document was submitted in this respect. According to PW 3, she eloped with
the accused willfully. She stayed at Abhayapuri for 3/4 months. Thereafter,
they got married at Abhayapuri Court. Since then they are living together as
husband and wife. Thereafter, they lived together at Lengtisinga for two
months as husband and wife and a son is also born. It is also found from the
evidence of PW 1 and 2 i.e. the parents of the victim that at the time of
occurrence, the age of the victim was about 18/19 years and both the victim
and the accused are living together as husband and wife. They have no
allegation against the accused. So, no case is established U/S 4 of POCSO Act.
14. Another charge was framed U/S 366 IPC. From the evidence of
victim, I have found that she fled away with the accused willfully. From the
evidence of victim, it is revealed that she had love affairs with accused and
hence, she eloped with the accused and went to Abhayapuri without informing
her family members. So, taking of victim by the accused is not proved beyond
all reasonable doubt. Prosecution failed to establish the charge either U/S 366
IPC or U/S 4 of POCSO Act. Both the points mentioned above are remained as
not proved.

ORDER

15. Prosecution failed to prove the case U/S 366 IPC R/W Section 4
of POCSO Act against accused Shaharuk Hussain @ Saruk Ali. Accused is
acquitted and set at liberty. He is directed to furnish bail bond of Rs. 10,000/-
with one suitable surety of the like amount for a period of six months as

required U/S 437(A) Cr.P.C. Till then he is allowed to remain on previous bail.

16. A copy of this Judgment shall be given to the District
Magistrate, Chirang for information.

17. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 16” day
of May, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

(D.J. Mahanta)
Special Judge,
ge,
Dictated and corrected by me, Chirang. Kajsigaoa

} A?
Y\
(D.J. Mahanta)
Special Judge,
ge,
Chirang, on

KOK AK KKK
APPENDIX

 

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 - Md. Jahidul Islam

PW 2 — Musstt. Julima Khatun
PW 3 — Victim

Exhibit (Prosecution):

Ext-1 FIR
Ext-2 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

Material Exhibit (Prosecution ):

Nil.

 

Defence Witness:
Nil.

Defence Exhibit:
Nil.

ho

(D.J. Mahanta)
aoe Judge,

Chirand.
