IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 20/2018
(Arising out of Barpeta P.S. Case No. 900/2018)
U/S 4 of POCSO ACT, 2012

PRESENT : Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi

Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:- 05.07.2018

State of Assam
x VS i
Annas Ali....Accused person.

Date of Recording Evidence on - 29.10.2018, 02.02.2019, 17.06.2019.
Date of Hearing Argument on - 11.07.2019.
Date of Delivering the Judgment on - 23.07.2019

Appearance :

Advocate for the State--------- Mrs. P. Das, Ld. Addl. P.P.
Advocate for the Accused-----Mr. A. Mannan, Ld. Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The brief fact, of the prosecution case, is that on 27.04.2018 one Saha

Alom lodged an FIR in Barpeta police station alleging inter-alia that on
20.11.2017 accused took his minor daughter (X) under threat of her life and
promise of marriage, kept her into his house for about four days and during
this four days accused rapped her on number of occasion. Coming to know
about the incident, he called a meeting of the society and accordingly, his
daughter was recovered from the house of accused at the intervention of the
society and in the meeting it was resolved that accused will marry his
daughter when she become major. It is contended that accused accepted the
verdict of the society. Thereafter, he took his daughter to his residence. Even
then accused visited his house and again forceful sexual intercourse with her.
When the informant again informed the guardian of accused, they assured to
marry his daughter with accused. But on 20.04.2018 accused married another
girl thereby defrauded and cheated his daughter bringing disrepute and
uncertainty to her life. Hence the case.
2

Ds Acting on the information, Barpeta police station registered a case
being Barpeta P.S. case No. 900/18 u/s 343/417/506/34 IPC and Section 4 of
POCSO Act and investigated the case.

3. During the course of investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, recorded the statements of the witnesses, sent the victim girl for
medical examination but she refused her examination, Nevertheless, the
statement of the victim girl was recorded before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Thereafter, on conclusion of investigation, police finally laid the charge sheet
against accused u/s 343/417/506 IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act with a view
to stand trial.

4. During the course of time, accused entered his appearance in court to
face trial. On his appearance, having complied with the provision of Section
207 Cr.P.C. vide order dated 05.07.2018 the then Special Judge framed charge
u/s 4 of POCSO Act after hearing both sides. The particulars of the offence on
being read over and explained accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

5. During the course of trial, prosecution, however, examined as many as
5(five)witnesses including the informant, the alleged victim and the
investigating officer.

6. On conclusion of prosecution evidence, accused was examined u/s 313
Cr.P.C. However, accused pleaded that the prosecution evidence are false and
misleading. On being asked accused however, declined to adduce defence
evidence. His plea is total denial of the prosecution case.

7. Now point for determination ;-
1. Whether on 20.11.2017 and prior thereto accused committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim punishable u/s 4 of POCSO

Act as alleged ?

8. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-

 

9. | have heard the learned lawyers appearing for both sides and carefully
perused the evidence and documents available on record.

10. The learned Addl. P.P. appearing for the state Mrs. Priti Das contended
that in the present case the evidence of PW-1 the informant Saha Alom, PW-2
3

the victim girl, PW-3 Mohar Uddin, PW-4 Danez Khan and PW-5 Ashok Kumar
Das shows that accused had the penetrative physical relation with the victim
girl on the promise of marriage on number of occasion but subsequently he
married another girl. Therefore, the evidence of the prosecution witnesses
clearly established the fact that accused committed the crime enumerated u/s
3 punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act. According to her, in the present case,
prosecution has been able to bring home the guilt of the accused for awarding
adequate punishment in accordance with law.
11. On the other hand, the learned counsel Mr. Abdul Mannam appearing
for the accused person contended that all the allegations are false and
misleading because the alleged incident occurred on 20.11.2017 but the FIR
has been lodged only on 27.04.2018 after a long gape of almost five months
and the delay has also not been properly explained in the FIR. Therefore, the
learned counsel contended that it a cooked up_ story only to harass the
accused person. According to him, the evidence of the victim girl is unworthy
of credit as she on being frustrated for not being married her by accused
falsely implicated the accused of having sexual intercourse with her. The
evidence of the parents are also interested. Therefore, no reliance can be
placed on their evidence. As such, the learned defence counsel Abdul Mannan
vehemently contended that it is a
fit case for recording judgment of acquittal.
12. Before going to adumbrate the evidence of the prosecution witnesses,
it is apposite to refer section 3 and 4 of POCSO Act which reads as under:

Section 3 Penetrative sexual assault.- A person is said to commit

“penetrative sexual assault” if-

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth,

urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any

other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being

the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the

child to do so with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause

penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the

child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the child
4

or makes the child to do so to such person or any other person.
Section 4 Punishment for penetrative sexual assault.- Whoever
commits penetrative sexual assault shall be punished’ with
imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less
than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and
shall also be liable to fine.
13. Now, this court is to see what the victim has stated in her evidence.
14. The victim PW-2 in her evidence stated that about one year back while
she has been reading in Class IX and returning from school accused Annas Ali
took her to his residence on the promise of marriage and kept her in his
residence for about 4 days and during that period he had sexual intercourse
with her. Having come to know about this, she was taken by her parents to her
village where a meeting was held in presence of family members of accused
Annas Ali and other villagers wherein it was decided that accused will marry
her after she attained majority. She also stated that even after the village
meeting accused used to visit her residence and continue physical relation
with her on the promise of marriage. But later on, he married another girl for
which her father filed the case. She also stated that during investigation police
produced her before Magistrate for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext.2 is the said statement and Ext.2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures.
15: In her cross examination she denied that she ever consume poison at
Saragpara village and described her age as 18 years before doctor as
suggested by the learned defence counsel. She also denied that she was ever
admitted in any hospital for treatment. She also stated that after seven
months of the incident police took her to doctor for medical examination but
she refused her examination. In her statement before Magistrate she also
stated that she has love affairs with Annas for two years and also stated
before Magistrate that accused took her to his house from school. In the
village meeting along with her father, one Samsul Hoque was present. In the
meeting she also expressed her intention to marry Annas and Annas Ali also
knows about physical relation but not by other family members. She told her
parents about her relation with Annas Ali. She however, admitted that no case
was filed against accused for last six months. She also denied that at the
relevant time her age was 18 years and filed this false case against accused
with conspiracy and denied that she was not kept by accused in his residence
for four days.

16. In her statement before Magistrate Ext.2 she stated her age as 17
years and stated that on 20.11.2017 accused with criminal intimidation took
her to his residence on the promise of marriage and kept her in his house for
four days and all the four days he had sexual intercourse with her. After four
days, meeting was held where accused promised to marry her. Even after she
came to her residence accused visited her house and continue physical
relation with her. But he did not marry her citing her under age and thereafter,
married another girl. Hence her father filed the case. Therefore, from the
evidence of the victim as well as her statement before Magistrate u/s 164
Cr.P.C. it appears that accused had penetrative sexual assault on the victim
girl on number of occasion on the promise of marriage but subsequently
refused to marry her.

17. Now, let me consider whether other prosecution witnesses lend any
credence to the evidence of PW-2 the alleged victim.

18. PW-1 Saha Alom the father of the victim girl deposed that about 8/9
months back accused took his daughter and kept her in his house for 3 /4
days. Having not found his daughter he called a village meeting. In the said
meeting accused assured to marry his daughter on attaining her majority. But
in the mean time, accused married another girl and now his daughter has
been residing in his house. Ext.1 is the FIR and Ext.1(1) and 1(2) are his
signatures.

19. In his cross examination he expressed his ignorance about the defence
suggestion that his daughter consumed poison in the village Saragpara before
he filed the case. In his cross examination he further deposed that his
daughter had love affairs with accused but for how long he cannot say. Since
his daughter was minor then so she was not married with accused. He denied
that he filed the case against accused for not marrying his daughter.

20. PW-3 Mohar Uddin also deposed that accused kept the daughter of
informant about 3 /4 days in his residence.

21. PW-4 Denez Khan also deposed that accused Annas Ali kept the
daughter of informant for about 4 days in his residence and in the village
meeting he agreed to marry the victim girl. Later on, when she attained
majority. But after that he married another girl. So, the evidence of PW-1, 3
and 4 fully corroborated the evidence of the victim girl.
6

22; PW-6 the investigating officer Ashok Kumar Das in his evidence also
deposed that during investigation he visited the place of occurrence, recorded
the statement of the witnesses, arrested the accused and finally having found
a prima facie case submitted charge sheet against accused Annas Ali u/s
343/417/506 IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act.
23. In the instant case, accused was charged u/s 4 of POCSO Act only. On
perusal of Section 3 it appears that a person is said to commit “penetrative
sexual assault” if (a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina,
mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any
other person OF .........:0000 Section 4 of the said Act prescribed punishment for
the commission of the offence as define in Section 3 of the Act.
24. In this context this court profitably refer a judgment of the Hon’ble
Delhi High Court In Raghav vs State on 24 May, 2018, which is
impregnated with the law rendered by Hon’ble Apex Court as well as its own
findings as under-
Analysis
“13. Various issues arise, for consideration, in the present case, which may be
addressed, seriatim.
Statement of the prosecutrix _M'
14. That conviction, for rape, can be sustained solely on the basis of the
statement of the prosecutrix is, by now, almost axiomatic. Several judicial
pronouncements, on the issue, were digested, by the Supreme Court in
paragraphs 9 to 14 of the report in Vijay @ Chinee vs State of Madhya
Pradesh, (2010) 8 SCC 191, which may be reproduced thus:

—Sole evidence of prosecutrix

9. In State of Maharashtra v. Chandraprakash Kewalchand Jain,(1990) 1
SCC 550 this Court held that a woman, who is the victim of sexual assault, is
not an accomplice to the crime but is a victim of another person's lust and,
therefore, her evidence need not be tested with the same amount of suspicion
as that of an accomplice. The Court observed as under: (SCC p. 559, para 16)
—16. A prosecutrix of a sex offence cannot be put on par with an accomplice.
She is in fact a victim of the crime. The Evidence Act nowhere says that her
evidence cannot be accepted unless it is corroborated in material particulars.
She is undoubtedly a competent witness under Section 118 and her evidence
must receive the same weight as is attached to an injured in cases of physical
7

violence. The same degree of care and caution must attach in the evaluation
of her evidence as in the case of an injured complainant or witness and no
more. What is necessary is that the court must be alive to and conscious of
the fact that it is dealing with the evidence of a person who is interested in the
outcome of the charge levelled by her. If the court keeps this in mind and feels
satisfied that it can act on the evidence of the prosecutrix, there is no rule of
law or practice incorporated in the Evidence Act similar to Illustration (b) to
Section 114 which requires it to look for corroboration. If for some reason the
court is hesitant to place implicit reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix
it may look for evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony short of
corroboration required in the case of an accomplice. The nature of evidence
required to lend assurance to the testimony of the prosecutrix must
necessarily depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. But if a
prosecutrix is an adult and of full understanding the court is entitled to base a
conviction on her evidence unless the same is shown to be infirm and not
trustworthy. If the totality of the circumstances appearing on the record of the
case disclose that the prosecutrix does not have a strong motive to falsely
involve the person charged, the court should ordinarily have no hesitation in
accepting her evidence.

10. In State of U.P v. Pappu, (2005) 3 SCC 594 this Court held that
even in a case where it is shown that the girl is a girl of easy virtue or a girl
habituated to sexual intercourse, it may not be a ground to absolve the
accused from the charge of rape. It has to be established that there was
consent by her for that particular occasion. Absence of injury on the
prosecutrix may not be a factor that leads the court to absolve the accused.
This Court further held that there can be conviction on the sole testimony of
the prosecutrix and in case, the court is not satisfied with the version of the
prosecutrix, it can seek other evidence, direct or circumstantial, by which it
may get assurance of her testimony. The Court held as under: (SCC p. 597,
para 12) —12. It is well settled that a prosecutrix complaining of having been
a victim of the offence of rape is not an accomplice after the crime. There is
no rule of law that her testimony cannot be acted upon without corroboration
in material particulars. She stands at a higher pedestal than an injured
witness. In the latter case, there is injury on the physical form, while in the
former it is both physical as well as psychological and emotional. However, if
8

the court of facts finds it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix on its
face value, it may search for evidence, direct or circumstantial, which would
lend assurance to her testimony. Assurance, short of corroboration as
understood in the context of an accomplice, would do.

11. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh, (1996) 2 SCC 384, this Court
held that in cases involving sexual harassment, molestation, etc. the court is
duty-bound to deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. Minor
contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of a prosecutrix
should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable prosecution
case. Evidence of the victim of sexual assault is enough for conviction and it
does not require any corroboration unless there are compelling reasons for
seeking corroboration. The court may look for some assurances of her
statement to satisfy judicial conscience. The statement of the prosecutrix is
more reliable than that of an injured witness as she is not an accomplice. The
Court further held that the delay in filing FIR for sexual offence may not be
even properly explained, but if found natural, the accused cannot be given
any benefit thereof. The Court observed as under: (SCC pp. 394-96 & 403,
paras 8 & 21) —8. ... The court overlooked the situation in which a poor
helpless minor girl had found herself in the company of three desperate young
men who were threatening her and preventing her from raising any alarm.
Again, if the investigating officer did not conduct the investigation properly or
was negligent in not being able to trace out the driver or the car, how can that
become a ground to discredit the testimony of the prosecutrix? The
prosecutrix had no control over the investigating agency and the negligence
of an investigating officer could not affect the credibility of the statement of
the prosecutrix. ... The courts must, while evaluating evidence, remain alive to
the fact that in a case of rape, no self-respecting woman would come forward
in a court just to make a humiliating statement against her honour such as is
involved in the commission of rape on her. In cases involving sexual
molestation, supposed considerations which have no material effect on the
veracity of the prosecution case or even discrepancies in the statement of the
prosecutrix should not, unless the discrepancies are such which are of fatal
nature, be allowed to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution case. ...
Seeking corroboration of her statement before relying upon the same, as a
rule, in such cases amounts to adding insult to injury. ... Corroboration as a
9

condition for judicial reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix is not a
requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under given circumstances. ...
dk >K>K

21. ... The courts should examine the broader probabilities of a case and not
get swayed by minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the
statement of the prosecutrix, which are not of a fatal nature, to throw out an
otherwise reliable prosecution case. If evidence of the prosecutrix inspires
confidence, it must be relied upon without seeking corroboration of her
statement in material particulars. If for some reason the court finds it difficult
to place implicit reliance on her testimony, it may look for evidence which may
lend assurance to her testimony, short of corroboration required in the case of
an accomplice. The testimony of the prosecutrix must be appreciated in the
background of the entire case and the trial court must be alive to its
responsibility and be sensitive while dealing with cases involving sexual
molestations."

(emphasis in original)

12. In State of Orissa v. Thakara Besra, (2002) 9 SCC 86, this Court held that
rape is not mere physical assault, rather it often distracts (sic destroys) the
whole personality of the victim. The rapist degrades the very soul of the
helpless female and, therefore, the testimony of the prosecutrix must be
appreciated in the background of the entire case and in such cases, non-
examination even of other witnesses may not be a serious infirmity in the
prosecution case, particularly where the witnesses had not seen the
commission of the offence.

13. In State of H.P. v. Raghubir Singh, (1993) 2 SCC 622 this Court held that
there is no legal compulsion to look for any other evidence to corroborate the
evidence of the prosecutrix before recording an order of conviction. Evidence
has to be weighed and not counted. Conviction can be recorded on the sole
testimony of the prosecutrix, if her evidence inspires confidence and there is
absence of circumstances which militate against her veracity. A similar view
has been reiterated by this Court in Wahid Khan v. State of M.P. [(2010) 2 SCC
9 : (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 1208] placing reliance on an earlier judgment in
Rameshwar v. State of Rajasthan [AIR 1952 SC 54: 1952 Cri LJ 547].

14. Thus, the law that emerges on the issue is to the effect that the
statement of the prosecutrix, if found to be worthy of credence and reliable,
10

requires no corroboration. The court may convict the accused on the sole
testimony of the prosecutrix. (Emphasis supplied)

15. Vijay @ Chinee (supra) was followed, by another 2-judge bench of the
Supreme Court (Speaking through Madan B. Lokur, J.), in State of Haryana vs
Basti Ram, (2013) 4 SCC 200. As in the present case, the prosecutrix, in that
case, who was less than 16 years of age, alleged misbehaviour and,
thereafter, rape, by her maternal uncle, intermittently over a period of time.
The High Court acquitted the accused, finding the sole testimony of the
prosecutrix to be insufficient to indict him. The Supreme Court was critical of
the approach of the High Court, opining, thus, in paras 2 and 25 of the report:

—2. In our opinion, the High Court committed an error of law in not
considering the evidence put forward by the prosecutrix (who was less than 16
years when she was raped) and ignoring the settled position in law that if the
sole testimony of the prosecutrix is credible, a conviction can be based
thereon without the need for any further corroboration.

DKK KKK

25. The law on the issue whether a conviction can be based entirely on
the statement of a rape victim has been settled by this Court in several
decisions. A detailed discussion on this subject is to be found in Vijay v. State
of M.P., (2010) 8 SCC 191. After discussing the entire case law, this Court
concluded in para 14 of the Report as follows: (SCC p. 198) —14. Thus, the law
that emerges on the issue is to the effect that the statement of the
prosecutrix, if found to be worthy of credence and reliable, requires no
corroboration. The court may convict the accused on the sole testimony of the
prosecutrix.

16. Profitable reference may also be made to one of the most recent
authorities on the point, State of Himachal Pradesh vs Sanjay Kumar, (2017) 2
SCC 51. There, too, a 9 year old girl was ravaged by her uncle. The Supreme
Court took pointed note of this fact, at the very beginning of its reasoning in
the judgement, in para 21 of the report, thus:

—Here is a case where charge of sexual assault on a girl aged nine years is
levelled. More pertinently, this is to be seen in the context that the
respondent, who is accused of the crime, is the uncle in relation. Entire matter
has to be examined in this perspective taking into consideration the realities
of life that prevail in Indian social milieu.
11

17. Para 31 of the report precisely sets out the legal position, regarding
the admissibility, and acceptability, of the evidence of a victim of rape, and
the advisability of seeking corroboration thereof, before seeking to base
conviction, thereon, in the following words:

--31. After thorough analysis of all relevant and attendant factors, we are
of the opinion that none of the grounds, on which the High Court has cleared
the respondent, has any merit. By now it is well settled that the testimony of a
victim in cases of sexual offences is vital and unless there are compelling
reasons which necessitate looking for corroboration of a statement, the courts
should find no difficulty to act on the testimony of the victim of a sexual
assault alone to convict the accused. No doubt, her testimony has to inspire
confidence. Seeking corroboration to a statement before relying upon the
same as a rule, in such cases, would literally amount to adding insult to injury.
The deposition of the prosecutrix has, thus, to be taken as a whole. Needless
to reiterate that the victim of rape is not an accomplice and her evidence can
be acted upon without corroboration. She stands at a higher pedestal than an
injured witness does. If the court finds it difficult to accept her version, it may
seek corroboration from some evidence which lends assurance to her version.
To insist on corroboration, except in the rarest of rare cases, is to equate one
who is a victim of the lust of another with an accomplice to a crime and
thereby insult womanhood. It would be adding insult to injury to tell a woman
that her claim of rape will not be believed unless it is corroborated in material
particulars, as in the case of an accomplice to a crime. Why should the
evidence of the girl or the woman who complains of rape or sexual
molestation be viewed with the aid of spectacles fitted with lenses tinged with
doubt, disbelief or suspicion? The plea about lack of corroboration has no
substance (See Bhupinder Sharma v. State of H.P, (2003) 8 SCC 551).
Notwithstanding this legal position, in the instant case, we even find enough
corroborative material as well, which is discussed hereinabove. (Emphasis
supplied

Having said that, we do have, with us, the statements of the prosecutrix
_M' herself, both under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C., as well as during trial, which
are consistent regarding the allegation of threat having been held out, to her,
by the appellant. The statements inspire confidence, especially as they are
supported by the depositions of Seema (PW-3) and Gauri Shankar (PW-6).”
12

25. Coming back to the present case, it is seen that during the course of
argument the learned defence counsel vehemently contended that there is
unusual delay of 5 months in filing the case which entertain serious doubt
regarding the authenticity of the case. He also submitted that the girl has
affairs with the accused which has been suppressed in the present case.
Moreover, the doctor is not examined in the instant case because the victim
refused her medical examination. The learned defence counsel further
contended that except the evidence of alleged victim girl the evidence of
other prosecution witnesses are not worthy of credit. The evidence of the
alleged victim girl also entertains doubt as it suggest false implication given
the inordinate delay in filing the case. Therefore, the learned defence counsel
vehemently contended that it is a fit case for recording judgment of acquittal.
26. Having taken into consideration, the argument of the learned defence
counsel and the provision of law which prescribed punishment it appears that
the victim girl in her evidence in court on oath as well as her statement before
Magistrate categorically stated that accused had taken her to his house and
kept her there for four days and had sexual intercourse with her for four days.
Subsequently a village meeting was held in which accused agreed to marry
her on attaining the age of majority. In the mean time, also accused visited
her house and had sexual intercourse with her on the promise of marriage but
subsequently he married another girl instead of her. This vital fact has been
supported by PW-1 the father, and other two prosecution witnesses who
categorically stated that accused kept victim in his house for four days.
Though there is some delay in lodging the FIR, but in the considered
estimation of this court the delay is very natural in view of the fact that the
victim girl and her father are rustic villagers they do not know the
technicalities of law in filing the case at the earliest opportunity. Moreover, the
court must be alive to the ground realities instead of taking a pedantic view. In
the present case, victim and her parents are illiterate and ignorant. They
cannot take quick decisions. They are easily influenced by the dictate of the
village “Matabbars” because of their vulnerable economic condition, fragile
status in the society. So, they cannot take right decision at right time. The fact
remains that they lives in remote village in an environment of ignorance. In
the environment in which they lives the delay was not said to be intentional
but because of the factors discussed above.
13

27. In the considered estimation of this court the evidence of the victim is
found credible and trustworthy the delay in lodging the FIR also appears to
have been explained in their evidence because immediately after the incident
a village meeting was held wherein accused agreed to marry her on her
attaining majority and even then continue sexual relation with her.

28. Under the above circumstances, the evidence of the victim cannot be
discarded as unworthy of credit. Refusing medical examination by victim also
no way weaken the prosecution case because after such a long gape medical
examination will not bring any fruitful result.

29. It is now a settle position that conviction can be sustained based solely
on the evidence of the prosecutrix. The only precaution the court is required to
take is whether the evidence of the victim inspires confidence in the mind of
the court. In the present case, after a dispassionate assessment of the entire
evidence, this court found the evidence of the prosecutrix credible and
trustworthy as she clearly stated that accused had physical relation with her
for four days and subsequent thereto which clearly attract the definition of
penetrative sexual assault as provided in Section 3(a) of POCSO Act.
punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act. Now a days the crime against the girl child has
been increasing day by day causing alarm to the society and criminals commit
such crime at will and go scot free on the ground of technicalities of law. In the
society where the victim lives, accused indulge such incident against minor
girl and subsequently avoided her in various pretext. Thereafter, accused
marrying another girl is the accepted norms but law does not permit to
indulge such act at will. The court must be alive to the ground realities
affecting the society at large. The society will continue to suffer and accused
will continue to indulge such crimes if the offenders are not punished.

30. As contended by the learned defence counsel merely because the girl
has love affairs with accused it does not give licence to accused to have
penetrating sexual assault on her at his will or force the girl to do so with the
accused. In the instant case, the narration of evidence given by the girl in
court on oath as well as her statement before police u/s 161 Cr.P.C. it is seen
that there is no such inconsistencies or contradiction regarding the fact of
penetrating sexual assault on her by accused as she clearly stated that
accused forced her to have penetrative sexual assault with him by taking her
to his residence on the false promise of marriage for four days at the initial
14

stage and subsequent occasion also he has sexual inter course with her. But
later on, he married another girl which shows his clear criminal conscience to
exploit the innocence and tenderness of a minor girl which in the considered
view of this court constitute the offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

31. Therefore, this court can very well draw the presumption as provided
in section 29 and 30 of the POCSO Act, 2012 that accused had the culpable
mind in taking the victim girl to his residence in the name of love with her and
having sexual intercourse with her. So, accused has the intention or
knowledge that he is committing a crime against a minor which is an act
punishable under section 4 of POCSO Act. Accused not only put a strain in the
faith and innocent relationship but also invaded into the privacy and sexuality
of the victim girl and violated her dignity as a person. The act of the accused
is certainly an aggression into her privacy and sexuality.

32. In view of the foregoing discussion and reasons, this court has come to
the unerring finding that this is a case wherein prosecution has been able to
establish the case against accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act. Accordingly, he is
found guilty u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

33. | have considered the provision of section 360 Cr.P.C. but after due
consideration of the attending facts and circumstances of the case and the
age of the accused the nature of the offences committed, this court is not
inclined to extend the benefit of Probation of Offenders Act in favour of
accused.

SENTENCE HEARING

34. | have heard the accused persons on the point of sentence as provided
u/s 235(2) Cr.PC. It is submitted that accused person hails from very poor
strata of society and survives by doing labour. He is very young person of 22
years old and married. He has having his old mother to maintain. So, in the
event he is put behind bar his innocent family members would suffer a lot.
Hence, accused pleaded clemency.

35. Heaving considered all the attending facts and circumstances and the
extenuating and mitigating circumstances of the case and the punishment
prescribed in section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 accused is convicted and
sentenced to under go Rigorous imprisonment for a term of 7 years (Seven
15

years) which is the minimum sentence prescribed under section 4 of POCSO
Act and fine of Rs.2000/- i/d S/I for 3 three months.

36. The period of detention, if any, undergone by accused during the
course of investigation, inquiry or trial shall be set off against the term of
imprisonment as provided u/s 428 Cr.P.C.

37. Let a copy of the judgment be furnished to accused person free of cost
as provided in section 363 Cr.P.C.

38. Let copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District
Magistrate, Barpeta as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.

39. Let the case record be consigned to the record room after completing
the formalities.

40. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 23rd day of July,
2019.

Dictated & Corrected my me

Sd/- Sd/-

(Sri C.B. Gogoi) (Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
16

APPENDIX

1. The prosecution has examined the following 5 nos. of witnesses :-

PW-1 = Saha Alom, the informant.
PW-2 = victim (X).

PW-3 = Mohar Uddin.

PW-4 = Danez Khan.

PW-5 = Ashom Kumar Das, the I/O.

2. The prosecution exhibited only one document :-

Ext.1 = is the FIR.

Ext.1(1) & 1(2)= are the signatures of informant Saha Alom.
Ext.2 = is the statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C..

Ext.2(1) & 2(2) = are the signatures of victim (X).

Ext.3= is the sketch map of P.O. No.I.

Ext.3(1) = is the signatures of M/O Ashok Kumar Das.
Ext.4= is the sketch map of P.O. No.Il.

Ext.4(1)= is the signature of I/O Ashok Kumar Das.

Ext.5= is the Charge sheet.

Ext.5(1)- is the signature of I/O Ashom Kumar Das.

Sd/-
(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
