1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 04/2018
corresponding to GR Case No. 154/2018 &
Bokajan Police Station Case No. 34/2018
Under Sections 363/376 IPC/ R/W 4 of the
POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Joydeep Sorin @ Biswajit Sorin

Name of informant/complainant:
Shri Nabin Chandra Gogoi

S/O Late Lohang Gogoi

Village: Langboi, Balipathar

PS: Bokajan

District: Karbi Anglong, Assam

Name of the accused person facing trial:

Shri Joydeep Sorin @ Biswajit Sorin

S/O Shri Ismail Sorin

Village: Japrajan, Kacharigaon

P.S: Bokajan

District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.
Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defence : Mr. Bidhan Mazumder
Date fixed for Argument : 03.06.2019
Judgment pronounced & delivered on: 07.06.2019/10.06.2019
2|Page

N.B:- On date fixed Judgment could not be pronounced due to

absence of defence counsel.

UDGMENT

It is a case of Kidnapping of a minor girl and
penetrative sexual assault on her alleged to have
been committed by the accused person.

The prosecution case in brief is that on
17.02.2018 the informant named above lodged a
written ejahar with Bokajan Police Station stating
inter alia that on 14.02.2018 at about 3:00 PM the
victim went untraced leaving a letter in her reading
table wherein she stated that she would not marry
anyone other than the accused Joydeep from
Japrajan. On receipt of written ejahar, Bokajan
Police Station registered a criminal case under
section 363 IPC and started investigation. On
completion of investigation, the charge sheet was
Submitted under sections 363/376 IPC read with
section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused
person. Hence the prosecution has come up.

On completion of appearance of the present
accused person before the Court, copy was supplied
to the accused person. Having very carefully gone
through submissions of learned lawyers of both
sides as well as case diary | found that there was
ground for presuming that that the accused person
committed the offenses under sections 363 of the
IPC/4 of the POCSO Act and accordingly, the
charges were framed. The particular of the offence
charged was duly read over and explained to the
3|Page

accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many
as 7 (Seven) witnesses. The accused person was
examined under section 313 CrPC. Defence has
examined none. Plea of defence is of total denial.

Points for determination

(i) Whether the present accused person on
14.02.2018 at about 03:00 PM at Langboi,
Balipathar under Bokajan Police Station
kidnapped victim from the possession of

the informant who was legal guardian?

(ii) Whether the accused on or after
14.02.2018 at Langboi, Balipathar under
Bokajan Police Station or in any other
Police Station made penetrative sexual

assault upon the victim?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal
arguments advanced by the learned counsels of
both sides as well as evidence on record.

PW-1 is informant of this case who has stated in
his evidence that the occurrence took place on the
day of Shivratri in the year 2018. On the day of the
occurrence for occasion of Shivratri he went to the
4|Page

house of his friend and other members of his family
went to the place where Shiv Puja was being
celebrated. Thereafter on the day of occurrence in
the evening he came home back and finding the
victim not available in the house he _ started
searched the places situated nearby the PO. After
few minutes from his arrival at the house his wife
also came home back. Thereafter in the reading
table of the victim a piece of paper was found
wherein it was mentioned that she got married with
the accused. After 3 (three) days from the date of
occurrence, he informed the matter to the Police of
the Bokajan Police Station. While he was in the
Police Station his niece Bhonti Gogoi informed him
over telephone that she saw the victim and accused
together at Shariojan Tiniali. Thereafter Police came
to the Shariojan along with him in Police van and
found them there. Thereafter both victim and
accused were taken to the Police Station. Ext-1 is
the ejahar and Ext-1(1) is his signature. At the time
of occurrence the victim was above 16 years. On
the following day the victim was taken to the Diphu
Hospital for medical examination. The Police also
recorded the statement of the victim in the Court
and seized Admit card vide Ext-2 and Ext-2(1) is his

signature.

PW-2 is Smti. Nirala Gogoi who is the mother of
the victim. The occurrence took place on the day of
the Shivratri. At the time of occurrence she along
with sister of the victim went out for celebrating
Shivratri puja outside leaving the victim alone in the
house. She came home back at about 5:00 PM and
started searching the victim while she was found
5|Page

not available in the house. During searched she
found a piece of paper wherein victim wrote that
she was got married with the accused. After
3(Three) days from the occurrence while father of
the victim could not traced out her where about he
lodged a written ejahar. During presence of
informant in the Police Station the daughter-in-law
of the nephew of the informant informed over
telephone that the victim was being kept in
Shariojan. Thereafter Police along with informant
came Shariojan and found the accused and the
victim together. Thereafter Police took both accused
and victim to Police Station. On being asked the
victim informed her that at Shariojan she along with
the accused was staying in the house of his elder
sister. At the time of occurrence she was 17 years
old. Police got her medically examined and her
statement recorded in the Court.

PW-3 is Miss Lukumoni Gogoi who is the victim of
this case. She has stated in her deposition that on
the day of Shivratri at 1:00 PM the occurrence took
place. At that time the accused came to their house
while there was none in the house as they went out
for celebrating Puja and asked her to flee away with
him. Though the victim refused to flee away with
the accused as there was an examination but on
threat she came out with the accused. The accused
took her to the house of his elder sister where they
stayed for 3 (three) days. During the stay the
accused made sexual intercourse with her twice. On
3 day while the accused was taking her to Mandir
at Shariojan Tiniali her sister-in-law met them. Talk
between her and her sister-in-law took place. She
6|Page

10.

11.

12.

informed her father over telephone that she was
with the accused at Shariojan. Police came to
Shariojan and picked up both of them. Police took
them to Police Station. Police got her medically
examined and her statement recorded in the Court.
Ext-3 is her statement. Ext-3(1) and Ext-3(2) are
her signatures.

PW-4 is Shri Nilakanta Gogoi @ Nila who has
stated in his deposition that he heard from the
villagers that someone kidnapped the victim.

PW-5 is Shri Khargeswar Gogoi who has stated
that the occurrence took place on the day of
Shivratri. After 2/3 days from the occurrence while
he came home back he heard from the villagers
that the accused kidnapped the victim. At the time
of occurrence the victim was reading in class IX or
class X. After three days of the occurrence the

victim was recovered.

PW-6 is Medical Officer who stated that on
19.02.2018 she was attached to Diphu Civil Hospital
as SD and HO and on that day she examined the
victim in connection with Bokajan Police Station
Case No. 34/2018 under section 363 IPC and found
that victim was below 16 years between 14-15
years as per radiologist opinion, that no external
injury was seen and that hymen was absent. Ext-3A
is the Medical examination report and. Ext-3A(1)
and Ext-3A(2) are her signatures.
7|Page

13. PW-7 is Smti. Bonti Tissopi Gogoi who has stated
in her deposition that the occurrence took place in
the year 2018. On the day of occurrence there was
a Shivratri. On the following day she came to know
the victim became untraced from the house. After
3/4 days while she was standing nearby the road
she saw the victim girl in an auto rickshaw. On
being asked the victim informed her that she was
staying with a boy. She informed the matter to her
husband. After few minutes her husband with Police
came there and the Police managed to apprehend
the accused. Thereafter Police took the accused and
the victim to Police Station.

14. For attracting section 363 of the IPC and section
4 of the POCSO Act the victim must be a child as
defined under section 2(d) of the POCSO Act. As per
section 2(d) of the POCSO Act a person who is
below 18 years is called child. No Birth certificate of
the victim was recovered. Even though no school
certificate showing date of birth of the victim was
submitted. Now the Court is to hold age of the
victim at the time of occurrence on the basis of oral
evidence and Medical report. Ext-3A is the Medical
report which shows that Ossification test was
conducted to ascertained age of the victim and
after Ossification test impression was drawn that at
the time of occurrence the victim as below 16
years(14/15 years). Ext-2 is the seizure list by which
HSLC Admit card of the victim was seized. Seized
Admit card shows that Date of Birth of the victim is
01.01.2001. Occurrence took place on 14.02.2018.
From the Admit card it appears that on the day of
occurrence the victim was 17 years 1 month 13
8|Page

L5.

days. PW-1 and PW-2 are the parents of the victim.
Evidence of PW-1 shows that at the time of
occurrence victim was above 16 years but below 17
years. On the other hand PW-2 who is the mother of
the victim has stated that at the time of occurrence
the victim was 17 years. According to the victim at
the time of occurrence she was 16 years. As per
Medical report she was below 16 years between
14/15 years. After application of margin of error in
ascertained age of the victim on the basis of
Ossification test it can be held that at the time of
occurrence she was below 18 years. The accused
though in his statement recorded under section 313
CrPC stated denial of his involvement in alleged
occurrence but evidence that at the time of
occurrence victim was below 18 years remained
uncontroverted. Hence, in view of the discussion
made above | have come to conclusion that at the

time of occurrence the victim was a child.

PW-3 who is the victim of this case has vividly
narrated as to how the accused took her from her
house on the day of occurrence. Her evidence
clearly shows that on the day of occurrence while
she was alone in the house the accused took away
her to the house of his elder sister situated at
Shariojan and kept her there for 3 (Three) days
wherein he made sexual intercourse with her for
twice. Her evidence also reveals that on the basis of
telephone call given by her sister-in-law Police came
at Shariojan where from Police took all of them to
the Police Station. From the cross examination of
PW-3 defence case is reveal that while the victim
was reading in class X, a love affairs was developed
9|Page

16.

between her and the accused and that the accused
made sexual intercourse with her on her sweet will.
Ext-3 is the statement of the victim recorded under
section 164 CrPC which shows that a sort of weak
love affairs was developed between the accused
and the victim and the accused took away from her
paternal house on threat that if she refused to flee
with him he would commit suicide. It also shows
that the victim was kept in the house of elder sister
of the accused situated at Shariojan wherein he
made sexual intercourse with her forcibly. Ext-3A is
the Medical Report which shows that during Medical
examination of the victim her hymen was not
found. That apart, history of alleged occurrence
narrated in Ext-3A shows that a love affairs was
developed between the accused and the victim,
that the accused took her on the day of occurrence
to his house wherein he made sexual intercourse
with her. The absence of hymen of the victim
indicates that she was subjected to sexual
intercourse. Now it is found that there is
corroborative Medical evidence for the evidence of
the victim that the accused made a_ sexual
intercourse with her. During cross examination of
the victim the defence did not take any pain to
dispute that the accused kept the victim in his

house and made sexual intercourse with her.

From the statement of the victim itself it appears
that she did not strongly object to flee away with
the accused person on his request. Her evidence
also silent that she did not raise any objection while
the accused was making sexual intercourse with

her. It is established principle that minor consent is
10| Page

17.

18.

19.

no consent. Both PW-1, 2 and 4 categorically have
stated that after 3 days from the date of occurrence
the victim was recovered from the possession of the
accused in Shariojan Tiniali.

In view of the discussion made above and the
presumptions laid down under section 29 of the
POCSO Act | have come to conclusion that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case
under section 363 IPC/4 of the POCSO Act.

ORDER

In the result, | find the accused Sri Joydeep Sorin
guilty under section 363 IPC/4 of the POCSO Act and
accordingly he is convicted.

On the point of sentence, the accused person is
heard and to that effect his statement is recorded.
The learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the
accused person has submitted that the accused is
the only earning member of his family consisting of
his wife and 3 children and as such he deserved to
be punished leniently. On the other hand the
learned Public Prosecutor has submitted that the
accused made flood with the victim though he is a
married person having 3 children and as such he
needs to be punished exemplary. Taking all aspects
into consideration, | do hereby order the accused
Sri Joydeep Sorin @ Biswajit Sorin to undergo RI of 6
(Six) months for the section 363 of the IPC and RI of
7 (Seven) years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1000/- i/d SI
11|Page

for 1 (One) month for the section 4 of the POCSO
Act. Both sentences will run concurrently. Set off
earlier detention period. Return the seized
document to the informant in due course of Law.
Let certified copy of the Judgment be supplied to
the accused person at free of cost. Send also a copy
of the Judgment to the Leaned District Magistrate in
term of the section 365 of the CrPC. No order in the
light of section 357 A of the IPC is passed.

20. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

21. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on
this 10" June, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed,
AJS)
Special Judge Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi
Anglong,

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Shri Nabin Chandra Gogoi
PW2- Smti Nirala Gogoi
PW3- Miss Lukumoni Gogoi
12|Page

PW4- Shri Nilakanta Gogoi @ Nila
PW5- Shri Khargeswar Gogoi
PW6- Smti Jacqueline Teronpi
PW7- Smti Bonti Tissopi Gogoi

Defence Witnesses: Nil

Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Seizure List

Ext.3- Statement of the Victim
Ext.3A- Medical Report

Defence Exhibited: Nil

Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam
