Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: CACHAR.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.49 of 2017
(U/S 366 IPC and Sec.4 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
State of Assam
-Versus-
PYTT UG ENT irecmrmensnen xs sannanan Accused.

Charge framed On tm.........ccececcceeeeestseeeeeeesseeesesseteanees 28.03.18
P.Ws. examined on:-_ 5.7.18,9.8.18,14.9.18,20.11.18,21.2.19,
4.6.19,27.6.19,24.1.20

ATOUGIGGE HES GA t= srmsincnmssencmnnassmonn rssseanesrseerrisees 11.2.20.
Judgment pronounced and delivered ONn:-.........cc0cceeees 27.2.20.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : Smti. S.R. Barbhuiya,ld. Advocate.
JUDGMENT

The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an

FIR with the Jirighat P.S. stating the facts that on 17.02.17 at about 4 p.m.
the victim sister of the informant went to a nearby shop but she did not
return. On search and inquiry the informant could know that the accused

along with other co accused abducted the victim. When the informant
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/17

communicated with the accused pointing on this matter, the accused gave
threatening to him.
2. On receipt of the FIR, O/c Jirighat PS registered a regular PS
case vide Jirighat P.S. Case No.09/17 U/S 366(A) of IPC . Police started
investigation and during the course of investigation the statement of the
victim girl was recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. The investigating officer visited the
place of occurrence and prepared a rough sketch map etc. and
subsequently after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet only
against accused person Arif Uddin U/S 366 A of IPC r/w Sec.6 of POCSO
Act.
3 As the offence is U/S 366 A of IPC r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act
being exclusively triable by the Court of Special court , Id. additional CJM
Cachar, Silchar sent the case record to this court and _ this case was
taken up for trial by this court. In due course, upon appearance of the
accused and after hearing both sides formal charge U/S 366 of IPC and
Section 4 of POCSO Act was framed by this court against the accused
person. The charges having been read over and explained the accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

Points for determination :
4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(1) Whether the accused person on 17.02.2017 at about 4 p.m.
at village- Chalitarthal under Jirighat PS had kidnapped the victim, the
sister of the informant with intent that she may be compelled to marry
against her will or knowing it to be likely that she will be compelled to
marry against her will or in order that she will be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse, as alleged?

(2) Whether the accused person committed penetrative sexual

assault upon the victim as alleged ?
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/17

5. From the prosecution side as many as 12 witnesses were
examined including the IO and MO. The statement of the accused was
recorded U/S 313 Cr.P.C. where the accused person denied the
allegations against him. Defence declined to adduce evidence.

6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have also

heard the Ild.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF

7. Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the
accused person as mentioned in points for determination.

8. PW.1, Abdul Mannan Laskar who is the informant cum brother of
the victim deposed in his evidence that at about 1 & % years ago one
day at about 3-30 p.m. his victim sister went to a nearby shop but did
not return to the house. Thereafter PW.1 and others made search for her
and came to know that she is in the house of accused at Karimganj.
Thereafter PW.1 lodged the Ejahar vide Ext.1. He further deposed that
police recovered the victim from the house of accused at Karimganj. He
further deposed in his evidence that at the time of occurrence the age of
the victim was above 18 years and she was a student of Class VIII.

PW.1 in his cross examination stated that after the alleged
incident the victim was socially married with the accused. He further
stated that prior to lodging of FIR he personally visited the house of the
accused and also found the victim there but she was reluctant to come
with him and thereafter PW.1 came to the village , reported the matter to
his relatives and they got one FIR written and as at that time he was

not mentally good due to incident he signed the FIR brought by his
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/17

relatives without going through its contents . He specifically stated in his
cross examination that at the relevant time of occurrence his sister was
an adult and she is now happily residing in the house of the accused.

9. PW.2, Monabi Begum Laskar, the mother of the informant
deposed in her evidence that at the time of occurrence she was out of
her house and being informed about the missing of her daughter she
came back to her house on_ the following day , and that her son
searched for her but did not find the victim anywhere and thereafter her
son Abdul Mannan Laskar informed Jirighat PS by lodiging an ejahar.
She further added that police recovered her daughter from the house of
Arif Uddin. She also deposed that at the time of occurrence age of her
victim daughter was 18 years.

In her cross examination PW.2 stated that at present her victim
daughter is in the house of Arif as they have given marriage of their
victim daughter with the accused and they are living peaceful married
life. She also stated that they have no allegations or grievances against
the accused.

10. PW.3, Arjuman Ali Barbhuiya deposed in his evidence that he
knew nothing about the occurrence.

11. PW.4 , Lily Begum, deposed in her evidence that about two years
ago the occurrence took place and Johir Uddin, the father of the victim
informed her that on the date of occurrence the accused kidnapped the
victim in the evening and thereafter PW.4 came to know that police
recovered the victim and gave her zimma to her parents. She also
added that at the time of occurrence the victim girl was major.

In her cross examination PW.4 admitted that she did not state to

police that father of victim informed her that on the date of occurrence
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/17

the accused kidnapped the victim in the evening. She also stated that
she personally does not know anything about the incident.

12. PW.5, the victim, deposed in her evidence that accused is her
husband and she got married with him him about a year back and they
are having a female child. She added that she was in love affair with the
accused but her parents wanted to give her marriage with other person
and as such she eloped with the accused out of her own accord and her
brother lodged an FIR. She further stated that police recovered her
from the house of the accused and she was medically examined and her
statement was recorded by Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. She further
deposed that after recovery her father took her zimma_ from the court.
She further deposed that as her family members had assaulted her and
forced her to leave the accused _ she again eloped with the accused. She
also deposed in her deposition that she has been residing with her
husband the accused along with their minor daughter at Karimganj. She
further deposed that she has no grievances against the accused.

In her cross examination she stated that presently she has been
peacefully living with the accused. She also stated that after her
recovery and as per the dictation of her parents and other family
members, she had made statement u/s 164 of Cr.P.C. against the
accused and the contents of such statements was not of her voluntary
one.

13. PW.6 Rukon Ali deposed in his evidence that about one year nine
months back the alleged occurrence took place and on that day he
heard that the sister of the informant fled away with someone.

PW.6 in his cross examination stated that at the time of

occurrence the sister of the informant was above 18 years.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/17
14. PW.7 Babu Khan deposed in his evidence deposed that he does

not know the informant, victim and the accused. He further deposed that
about one year ago he went to Ramkrishnagar along with o/c Jirighat PS
and police had apprehended one boy and one girl and brought them to
police station.

15. PW.8, Dr. Orina Raha, the Medical Officer, deposed in her
evidence that on 23.02.2017 she had examined the victim on police
requisition and PW.8 deposed that victim narrated history before PW.8
stating that three boys named Arif who was working in a_ hotel, Fakrul, a
driver and another unknown boy forcefully took her in a sumo vehicle
and gave her something to smell and she became unconscious and
after that when she gained consciousness found herself at the house of
Arif and Arif had sexual intercourse with her daily . PW.8 further
deposed that on the basis of physical including dental examination,
laboratory and radiological investigations done on victim and opined that
— (i) Her age is above 14 years and below 16 years ( ii ) No evidence of
recent sexual intercourse is detected and ( iii ) No evidence of injury on
the body or genitals detected.

16. In her cross examination the PW.8 admitted that she gave her
opinion regarding age on the basis of radiological report and she has
neither brought the said X-ray plate to the court today nor submitted the
same to the IO.

17. PW.9, Robjana Bibi, who is the mother of accused, deposed in
her evidence that about 2/ 2 & %2 years ago her son accused Arif Uddin
came to his house along with a girl ( i.e. the victim ) and thereafter the
said girl got married with her son socially in presence of well wishers and

Kaji and thereafter police came and apprehended the accused and after
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.49/17

the release of accused from jail both the families jointly celebrated their
marriage socially.

In his cross examination, PW.9 stated that at present the
accused and the victim have been living peacefully as husband and wife
and at the time of marriage the victim told her age as 19 years before
them and the villagers and Kaji.

18. PW.10 Najima Begum and PW.11- Haidar Hussain deposed in the
same manner stating that at the relevant date and time accused married
one girl and thereafter police arrested the accused. Both these above
witnesses stated in their cross examination that after release of the
accused from jail the parents of the victim and family of the accused
celebrated the marriage between the accused and the victim socially and
at present they have been living peacefully as husband and wife having
been blessed with one minor daughter.

19. PW-12 is the IO Sri Sanjeeb Kumar Das, who has narrated
various stages of investigation conducted by him and he submitted
charge sheet against the accused vide Ext.6 and Ext.6(1) is his signature.
PW-12 in his cross examination stated that he did not collect the birth
certificate or school certificate of the victim and did not enquire to know
in respect of loss of academic year of the victim due to failure.

20. Appreciating the evidence available on record as discussed
above, it reveals that the prime witness the victim PW.5 in her evidence
deposed that she voluntarily eloped with the accused and got married
with him out of love affair and presently she has been peacefully living
with the accused having blessed with a child. PW.1, the informant of the
case, being the brother of the victim deposed that he lodged the FIR as
he came to know that the victim was at the house of accused and at

that time victim was of above 18 years of age and in his cross
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/17

examination he stated that victim was socially married off with the
accused. PW.2, the mother of the victim also deposed that at the time of
occurrence age of the victim was 18 years and victim was married off
with the accused. PW.3 did not know anything about the occurrence.
PW.4 who is a reported witness though stated in her evidence that father
of the victim reported her that accused kidnapped the victim but in her
cross examination she categorically stated that she personally does not
know anything about the incident. PW.6, PW.7, PW.9, PW.10 and PW.11
did not implicate the accused in the alleged offence of crime. Though
PW.8, the Medical Officer deposed in her evidence that the victim gave
her history to PW.8 implicating the accused as discussed above but this
piece of evidence will not help to the case of the prosecution ,
particularly, in view of the evidence of victim PW.5 herself. So, it
appears from the discussions above that the victim eloped with the
accused voluntarily and got married with him and they have been now
peacefully as husband and wife.

21. As regards age of the victim, the informant PW.1, stated that
victim was of above 18 years age at the time of occurrence. PW.2, the
mother of the victim being guardian of the victim deposed that victim
was 18 years of age at the time of occurrence. PW.6, an independent
witness also stated that at the time of occurrence the sister of the
informant ( i.e. the victim ) was above 18 years. PW. 9, the mother of
the accused stated in his cross examination that at the time of marriage
the victim disclosed her age as 19 years before them and the villagers
and Kaji. The medical officer opined that age of the victim was above 14
years and below 16 years at the time of occurrence. So it appears that
there was no mention of the exact age in the medical report and there

may be variation of age of two years on either side. Moreover, the
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/17

Medical officer gave the opinion basing on radiological report but the X-
ray report was not submitted before the court. The prosecution side also
failed to produce the birth certificate or school certificate and the IO also
admitted in his cross examination that he did not collect the birth
certificate or school certificate of the victim. That being the position,
there is no option before this court , particularly in view of the oral
evidences as discussed above, than to hold that the victim was major at
the time of occurrence.
22. In view of the above observations and discussions made above, I
am of the opinion that the accused cannot be fastened with the alleged
offence of crime as leveled against him and deserves to be acquitted.
23. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/s 366 of IPC and Sec.
4 of POCSO Act against accused.
24. In view of the above, accused person is_ not held guilty and
stands acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty
forthwith.

Bail bond stands discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on
this the 27th day of February, 2020.
Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee, Stenographer
-10-
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.49/17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR

Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 49 of 2017.
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

PW. 1 — Abdul Mannan Laskar
PW. 2 — Monabi Begum Laskar,
PW. 3 — Arjuman Ali Barbhuiya,
P.W. 4 — Lily Begum ,

P.W. 5 — victim.

P.W. 6 — Rukon Ali,

PW. 7 — Babu Khan,

PW. 8 — Orina Raha, M.O.

P.W. 9 — Robjana Bibi,

P.W. 10 — Najima Begum ,

PW. 11 — Haidar Hussain,

PW. 12 — Sanjeeb Kr. Das, IO,

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — Ejahar

Ext. 2 — Statement of victim
Ext. 3 — Medical Report

Ext. 4 — Sketch map.

Ext. 5 — Search list

Ext. 6 — Charge sheet

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
