IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE sa eae CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

SESS, Special(P) Case No. 3(Basu)/201
om NE U/S 376(2)(i) IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.
{ = e nie Se 4
bah et If State of Assam

oN. “Sf Sri Mohen Ch. Boro. ............... Accused

PRESENT: Sri D.J. Mahanta,

Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.

ADVOCATES APPEARED:

For the State ’ Sri D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor

For the accused / Sri M.K. Wary, Ld. Advocate

Date of evidence : 07.03.18, 28.03.18,

26.04.18, 28.05.18
Date of Argument : 28.06.2018
Date of Judgment : 12.07.2018
JUDGMENT AND ORDER
\ «a\® L. The prosecution case in brief is that on 05.06.2016, the
\V

3 informant Budbari Basumatary lodged an FIR before Basugaon P.S. alleging

wera ww actlthat in the year 2015, the accused, an ex-army approached the informant and
enirand made a proposal to bring her daughter Miss *X’ (name is withheld), aged about
12 years, with assurance that he would provide food, lodging and education

as well. Relying on the assurance made by the accused and owing to financial

crisis, the informant along with her family accepted the proposal. Accordingly,

in the month of October, 2015, the accused person brought the daughter of

the informant ito Tilogaon, Basugaon under Chirang district. It is alleged that

the accused person, after bringing the daughter of the informant to his

residence, committed sexual intercourse on her against her will and consent
agar?

\ Ae -
arp Kale
~ 4 " ®

ont

Qe %

on many occasions and he used to give medicine to the daughter of the
informant to avoid pregnancy. It is further alleged that when the daughter of
the informant narrated the entire incident to the wife of accused, she also
brutally beat the victim and the accused also threatened the victim to kill her if

she disclose the matter to any third person.

2. After receiving the FIR, the O/C of Basugaon P.S. registered a
case being numbered as Basugaon P.S. Case No. 45/2016 U/S 376(2)(i)/313/
323/506 IPC read with Section 4/8 of POCSO Act and the O/C himself
investigated the case. Accordingly, the Investigating Officer arrested the
accused, visited the place of occurrence, drew sketch map of P.O., recorded
the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got
recorded her statement u/s 164 CrPC, collected the medical report and after
completion of investigation, submitted charge-sheet against the accused Sri
Mohen Ch. Boro U/S 376(2)(f) IPC R/W Section 6/12 of POCSO Act. Later on,
accused person was released on bail. After receiving charge sheet, copies of
relevant documents were furnished to the accused person. On perusal of
entire materials on record and hearing both sides and after having found a
prima facie case, my learned predecessor framed charge U/S 376(2)(i) IPC
read with Section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused. Charge was read over
and explained to the accused to which he denied to plead guilty.

3. In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as 8
(eight) witnesses.

4. Following witnesses are examined:-

(1) Victim as PW 1

(2) Smt. Budhbari Basumatary as PW 2

(3) Miss Laxmi Chetri as PW 3

(4) Mrs. Damayanti Brahma as PW 4

(5) Miss Sumitra Narzary @ Tengna Narzary as PW 5
(6) Sri Theman Basumatary as PW 6

(7) Dr. Meena Hazarika as PW 7

(8) S.I. Sailen Deori (1.0.) as PW 8
5. Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext.
1. Medical report was exhibited as Ext. 2. Radiological report was exhibited as
Ext. 3. Sketch map was exhibited as Ext. 4, FIR was exhibited as Ext. 5 and
charge-sheet was exhibited as Ext. 6.

6. Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.
a Heard argument from both sides.
8. Now points for consideration:-

For the offence U/S 376(2)(i) of IPC

1, Whether before 28.05.2016 and after October, 2015, one day,
the accused at his house at Tilogaon under Basugaon P.S.
committed rape upon Miss 'X’ (name is withheld), a woman

under age of 16 years?
For the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act

2. Whether on the same day, time and place, the accused
committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim Miss ‘x’

(name is withheld), a minor girl under the age of 18 years?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

9. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record regarding both points simultaneously.

10. The allegation made in the FIR is that victim was kept in the
house of the accused as maidservant. During her stay in the house of the
accused, he sexually assaulted the victim and committed penetrative assault
on her. It was stated that at the time of occurrence, victim was a minor girl
aged about 12 years.

11. In this regard, prosecution examined all total 8 witnesses.

Except PW 7 and PW 8, other witnesses heard the incident from the victim.
Therefore, victim is the important witness in this case who was examined as
PW 1. She deposed that she was reading upto Class VII. She did not fail in
any class. She was working in the house of the accused. On the date of
occurrence, she came to bring rice. At that time, accused was lying on a bed.
He took her and committed sexual intercourse by gagging with a pillow. She
could not remember what she was wearing at that time. Accused was wearing
a ‘gamocha’. He put off his ‘gamocha’ and the undergarment of the victim and
committed sexual intercourse with the victim on a . This matter was
informed to the wife of the accused but she beat her and after few days,
victim along with PW 5 returned to her own house. It is found from the record
that PW 5 was also working as maidservant in the house of the accused along
with PW 1. Immediately, she reported the matter to her mother, the PW 2
who told the incident to the villagers. Ultimately, she was advised to meet
NGO personnel. Accordingly, due to advice from the NGO, villagers and other
relatives, the PW 2 lodged FIR after few days.

12. During cross-examination of PW 1, learned defence counsel
asked her about the date of occurrence but PW 1 failed to remember the date.
It is revealed from the cross-examination of PW 1 that she was kept in the
house of the accused one day prior to Durga Puja in the year 2015. She could
not state the fact that in' whose room the bed was lying. She further deposed
that matter was informed to PW 5 in the house of the accused after 1 or 2
days from the incident. It is also revealed from the evidence of the PW 1 that
when she reported the matter to the wife of the accused, then PW 5 Sumitra

was absent. She was washing dishes in another place.

13. PW 2 Smt. Budhbari Basumatary is the informant. She deposed
that after returning to her home, PW 1 told her that accused had committed
sexual intercourse with her. According to this witness, at that time, age of the
victim was about 12 years. She had no specific knowledge about the sexual
intercourse because she could not say how many days accused committed
sexual intercourse with victim. After Knowing the incident from her daughter,
PW 2 reported the same to the villagers and NGO. According to advice of the
NGO and villagers, she lodged FIR. She deposed that prior to keeping her

daughter in the house of the accused, she did not know the accused. Learned
oN
“ yw

defence counsel during the cross-examination, gave suggestion that PW 2
lodged a false FIR according to ill-advice of NGO but same was denied by the
PW 2.

14. PW 3 Laxmi Chetri is the worker of Action North-East Trust,
Chirang. She knew the fact from one of their members and ultimately she was
reported by the informant and victim. According to PW 3, accused committed
sexual intercourse often with the victim during her stay in his house. After
knowing the incident FIR was written by advocate one Bindu Subedi. The PW
2 put her thumb impression upon FIR which was exhibited as Ext.5 by the
Investigating Officer.

LS: During the time of investigation, victim was brought to the
Court for recording her statement. Said statement was exhibited as Ext.1. In
her statement before the Magistrate U/S 164 CrPC, the victim stated that she
went to bring the rice, then accused caught her and took her to her own bed
and committed sexual intercourse with her after removing her undergarment.
This fact was reported to the wife of the accused who beat her and ultimately,

she was driven out from their house by the wife of the accused.

16. PW 4 is another member of NGO, who heard about the incident
from the victim. PW 5 is the maidservant who was also working in the house
of the accused along with the victim. She heard during her stay in the house
of the accused about the incident from the victim. According to her, PW 1
reported her that accused had committed sexual intercourse when she offered
water to him. Learned defence counsel during cross-examination of PW 5
pointed out that she did not state before the police that victim reported her
that accused committed sexual intercourse with her. These facts were
admitted by PW 5. It is found from the evidence of PW 1 and PW 5 that
former did not state the actual fact to the PW 5 when they were staying in the
house of the accused. This fact was afterthought. Therefore, evidence given
by PW 5 in this respect, is not believable.

17. PW 6 is another villager, who heard about the incident from PW
2, the mother of the victim. PW 7 is the Medical Officer, who examined the
 

victim and sent her for radiological examination. After considering the
radiological examination, age of the victim was determined above 16 years but
below 18 years. She did not opine whether sexual intercourse committed on
victim or not. It is found that victim was medically examined by PW 7 after a
gap of long period from the date of incident. Therefore, no evidence was
found regarding sexual intercourse. So, medical evidence was insufficient

regarding sexual intercourse.

18. PW 8 is the Investigating Officer, who investigated the case
after filing of the FIR. The Investigating Officer visited the house of the
accused and drew sketch map. He seized the bed on which alleged sexual
intercourse took place. The sketch map was exhibited as Ext.4. In Ext.4, the
bed was shown in the room where victim used to sleep. The room where
accused used to reside is contiguous to the room of victim. There was a door
by which one can enter from the room of accused to the room of victim.
According to sketch map, the bed within the room of victim on which alleged

incident took place.

19, Learned counsel for accused vehemently argued that the victim
contradicted her own statement. According to learned defence counsel, during
her statement before police, she had stated that accused took the victim to
her own room and committed sexual intercourse on her bed. On the other
hand, during her later deposition victim stated that accused committed sexual
intercourse within the room of accused. After comparing both the statements,
I have found that it was not crystal clear from her deposition that she stated
before the Court that accused committed sexual intercourse in his own bed. It
is found from her evidence that when she went to bring rice, accused was
lying on his own bed. After that he came and took her and committed sexual
intercourse on a bed. She did not state clearly that it was done on the bed of
the accused. On the other hand, from the evidence of Investigating Officer, it
is found that the bed lying within the room of victim was seized and on that
bed alleged incident took place. The victim also stated that the accused, after
committing the offence, came out. That means he went to the room of the
victim and committed sexual intercourse on the bed in which victim used to

sleep. It is found from the evidence of PW 1 and PW S that after the incident
matter was reported to wife of the accused. Ultimately, both PW 1 and PW 5

left the house of the accused. The wife of the accused gave them Rs. 2,000/-
each.

20. In this regard, learned defence counsel did not raise any
question. No any ground was shown by learned defence counsel as to why
both girls left the house of the accused after the incident. It is found from the
evidence of PW 1 and PW 5 that victim, the PW 1 was staying prior to PW 5,
During her stay actually the accused tried to commit some sexual assault upon
her. Within that period, one day, he committed sexual intercourse. The age of
the victim was about 12 years. PW 2 clearly stated that the age of the victim
was about 12 years. Victim herself stated that she was reading upto Class VII.
PW 1 deposed before this Court after about two years from the date of
incident for which she failed to recollect all the facts regarding the incident. It
is found from her statement that accused tried to commit sexual assault in
different way. According to PW 3, accused committed sexual intercourse more

than one time as she knew from the version of the victim.

21. Learned defence counsel pointed out that the victim failed to
state about her wearing apparels on the date of incident. She further failed to
state the fact in which room bed was kept. By pointing out these
discrepancies, learned defence counsel argued that evidence given by PW 1 is

not at all trustworthy. She cannot be treated as wholly reliable witness.

. According to learned defence counsel, PW 5 did not corroborate the version of

the PW 1. Moreover, PW 5 exaggerated the facts which were not stated by
her before police during her statement U/S 161 CrPC.

22. Considering the submission of learned defence counsel, I have
found that PW 1 did not state either before the I.0. at the time of
investigation or at the time of trial before this Court that she had specifically
mentioned the entire incident to PW 5. She stated to her some facts but due

to shame, she could not divulge all the facts.

25. In this regard, we must have to consider the age of the victim

at the time of the incident. Though Medical Officer opined that age of the
victim was above 16 years but from the evidence of the victim as well as her

mother, she was 12 to 14 years. The mother deposed that at the time of
incident, victim was reading in L.P. School.

24. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the ocular
evidence is not reliable because medial evidence clearly stated that age of the

victim was above 16 years but below 18 years.

25. On the other hand, learned P.P. objected the submission of
learned defence counsel. According to him, medical evidence is not the

conclusion regarding the age of the victim.

26. It is settled in different cases by Hon’ble Supreme Court that
medical evidence is not binding on the ocular evidence. Generally opinion of
medical officer is obtained to assist the Court because he is not a witness of
fact and the evidence given by medical officer is really of an advisory

character and not binding on the witness of fact.

zi, In the case of Madan Gopal Kakkad v. MANU/SC/0509/
1992 : Naval Dubey and Anr. Hon’ble Supreme Court has considered a

similar question and pointed out in paragraph 34 at page SCC 221 as under:

"34, A medical witness called in as an expert to assist
the Court is not a witness of fact and the evidence given by the
medical officer is really of an advisory character given on the
basis of symptoms found on examination. The expert witness is
expected to put before the Court all materials inclusive of the
data which induced him to come to the conclusion and
enlighten the Court on the technical aspect of the case by
explaining the terms of science so that the Court although, not
an expert may form its own judgment on those materials after
giving due regard to the expert's opinion because once the
expert's opinion is accepted, it is not the opinion of the medical
officer but of the Court.”
—

AY

. ¥
vo “>
oN Fay
cy aye
ev Ye

= “on?
? ‘nS “

ny oe

28. In our present case at hand, mother clearly stated that age of
the victim was about 12 years. So, in my view, at the time of incident age of
the victim was below 16 years. According to witnesses, age was in between

12 to 14 years.

29. A 14 years girl naturally forgets some facts which were
happened two years ago. She could not recollect all incidents for a long period
of stay in the house of the accused. Therefore, victim failed to mention
specifically the date of incident. It is revealed from entire evidence on record
that victim was kept in the house of the accused during the time of Durga
Puja, 2015 and she returned to her home along with PW 5 on the last part of
May, 2016. During this period of several months, incident took place,
According to learned defence counsel, it was happened in the time of Bohag
Bihu. If I believe this fact then also victim returned after more than one
month because she returned to her home in the last part of May. After that
case was lodged and victim was examined by PW 7. Therefore, no any sign of
sexual intercourse was found by the Doctor, PW 7. As all other witnesses
heard from the victim and victim was alone at the time of incident, so
corroboration from other witnesses does not arise. In the case of sexual
assault/rape, evidence of victim is sufficient. On the basis of sole evidence of
victim, one can be convicted without any corroboration from the other

witnesses if she is found wholly reliable.

30. In present case at hand, I have found that though victim made
some discrepancies, but main fact is remained intact.

31. Hon’ble Supreme Court in Dinesh @ Buddha Vs. State of
Rajasthan, (2006) 3 SCC 771, regarding evidence of victim held as
follows:

"9. The physical scar may heal up, but the mental scar
will always remain. When a woman is ravished, what is inflicted
is not merely physical injury but the deep sense of some
deathless shame. An accused cannot cling to a fossil formula

and insist on corroborative evidence, even if taken as a whole,
aw

. ‘ . A a0
oe gna
on

~

e

oes

follows:

10

the case spoken to by the victim strikes a judicial mind as
probable, Judicial response to human rights cannot be blunted
by legal jugglery.”

In the same case, Hon’ble Supreme Court further held as

"11, In the Indian setting, refusal to act on the
testimony of the victim of sexual assault in the absence of
corroboration as a rule, is adding insult to injury. A girl or a
woman in the tradition bound non-permissive society of India
would be extremely reluctant even to admit that any incident
Which is likely to reflect on her chastity had ever occurred. She
would be conscious of the danger of being ostracised by society
and when in the face of these factors the crime is brought to
light, there is inbuilt assurance that the charge is genuine
rather than fabricated. Just as a witness who has sustained an
injury, which is not shown or believed to be self-inflicted, is the
best witness in the sense that he is least likely to exculpate the
real offender, the evidence of a victim of sexual offence is
entitled to great weight, notwithstanding the absence of
corroboration. A woman or a gitl who is raped is not an
accomplice. Corroboration is not the sine qua non for conviction
in a rape case. The observations of Vivian Bose, J. in
Rameshwar v. State of Rajasthan were. (SCR p. 386)

"The rule, which according to the cases has
hardened into one of law, is not that corroboration is
essential before there can be a conviction but that the
necessity of corroboration, as a matter of prudence,
except where the circumstances make it safe to

dispense with it, must be present to the mind of the

“st
‘ 2}
ae a
¢ .

a?

Ae

4+

. ae

11

33. After going through the entire evidence on record and settled
case law, in my view, this is a case of penetrative sexual assault upon a
minor. Prosecution established the case against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt. It is also found from all angles that victim was minor at the
time of incident. Therefore, Section 4 of POCSO Act is applicable in this case. I
have found that age of the victim was below 16 years at the time of incident.
According to Section 42 of POCSO Act, accused is found guilty U/S 376(2)(i)
IPC also.

34. Prosecution established the case U/S 376(2)(i) IPC against the

accused. Point No. (i) and (ii) are proved beyond all reasonable doubt.
ORDER

35, Prosecution proved the case U/S 376(2)(i) IPC R/W Section 4 of
POCSO Act against the accused Mohen Ch. Boro beyond all reasonable doubt.

Accused is convicted under both sections.

ae. After comparing the punishment in two Sections, I have found
that punishment U/S 376(2)(i) IPC is greater in degree. So, I want to sentence
the accused U/S 376(2)(i) IPC instead of Section 4 of POCSO Act.

37. Heard the accused and his engaged counsel on point of
sentence. The hearing is recorded in separate sheet and kept with the case
record.

38. The accused stated that he has been suffering from different
ailments and he is under treatment. Considering his ill-health condition,
accused prayed for mercy of the Court.

39. I have considered the mitigating circurnstances in this case in
favour of the accused. Considering all, I sentence the accused to undergo
rigorous imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) years and to pay fine of Rs.
10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand), in default, 6 (six) months R.I.
12

40. The period already undergone during the time of investigation
and trial shall be set off from the sentenced period as per provision of Section

428 CrPC. Accused is committed to the prison forthwith.

41. A copy of this Judgment shall be furnished to the accused on
free of cost. Another copy of this Judgment shall be given to the District
Magistrate, Chirang for information.

42. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 12" day
of July, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

Achy Ye fy ered
(D.J. Mahanta

Special Judge,

Chirang:

Dictated and corrected by me, Chirang, “ajegaos

Aint

(D.J. Mahanta)
Special Juage,
 CAITANG, 4 3 08
Chirang, meters:

KK
13

APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Victim

PW 2 — Smt. Budhbari Basumatary

PW 3 — Miss Laxmi Chetri

PW 4—- Mrs. Damayanti Brahma

PW 5 — Miss Sumitra Narzary @ Tengna Narzary
PW 6 - Sri Theman Basumatary

PW 7 — Dr. Meena Hazarika (M.O.)

PW 8 —S.I. Sailen Deori (1.0.)

Exhibit (Prosecution):

Ext-1 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext-2 Medical report

Ext-3 Radiological report

Ext-4 Sketch map

Ext-5 FIR

Ext-6 Charge-sheet

Material Exhibit (Prosecution):
Nil.

Defence Witness:
Nil.

Defence Exhibit:
Nil.

po @-

(D.J. Mahanta)
PEE UGA:

Chifatrae pigack
