IN THECOURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: KAMRUP (M),

AT GUWAHATI

Sessions Case No. 211/2016
(Under Section 4 of POCSO Act)

Present: Md. M. Ahmed,
Sessions Judge
Kamrup (M), Guwahati.

State of Assam
- Vs -

Paneswar Laskar @ Hari Laskar

an teenie Accused
Appearance for the Parties:
Advocate for the State : Sri H.K. Deka, Learned Public Prosecutor

Advocate for the accused : Sri N. Paul, Learned Advocate.

Date of recording evidence  :04.01.2017 & 23.02.2017

Date of Argument : 19.04.2017
Date of Judgment : 29.04.2017
JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 12.06.2016 at about 10:00 A.M. while

victim girl Ms. ‘X’ (relevant name is withheld to screen her from ignominy) /
daughter of informant Smt. Depali Laskar of Kushal Nagar, under Sonapur P.S.
district Kamrup (E), was studying in her room. Her step-father i.e. present
accused took her inside his bed room and took off her panty, gagged her mouth
with his hands and forcibly tried to insert his penis inside her womanly part. At
that time, the informant was not at home. The victim out of shame and fear
concealed to her mother finally on 16.06.2016. She narrated the entire matter to
the informant and has also told her that many a times in past, the accused did
the same thing i.e. forcibly tried to ravage her modesty. Coming to know this
ignominable act of her husband /the present accused, the informant went to
Sonapur P.S. and she lodged an FIR alleging sexual assault being committed in
the victim in her house. On receipt of this FIR Sonapur P.S. registered a case vide
Sonapur P.S. Case No. 128/16 under Section 4 of the POCSO Act. At that time,
the victim was aged about 9 years. Investigation was set in motion. During the
course of investigation, the I/O visited the place of occurrence, examine material
witness, subjected the victim to medical examination. Collective reports arrested
the aforenamed accused and caused his production before the learned court
below, where from he was remanded to judicial custody and upon collective
investigation and having found sufficient incriminating materials, the I/O
submitted charge-sheet against the aforenamed accused for alleged commission
of offence punishable under Section 4 of POCSO Act. At the time of submission of
the charge-sheet the accused was culling his hills behind bars. At subsequent
stage, he was let off on court bail. Thereafter, my learned predecessor in court
upon appearance of the accused and having heard the learned counsel of both
sides and on perusing the materials on record framed charge under Section 4 of
POCSO Act and read over and explained the particulars therein to the present
accused to which he professes innocence and claims to be tried.

Points for determination:-

2. In the instant case, it is to be determined if on 16.06.2012 at about 9/10
A.M. at Kushal Nagar under Sonapur P.S. the aforenamed accused committed
penetrative sexual assault on Ms. ‘*X’. The victim thus aged about 9 years. The
daughter of the informant Depali Laskar. In this case the prosecution has

examined 5 witnesses in all. Thereafter, the accused was examined under Section
313 of CrP.C. His plea is of total denial and false implication. He further declines

to lead evidence in defence.

3. I have heard the argument so advanced by learned counsel of both sides.
Considering the evidences on record and come to the following decisions:-

Decisions and reasons thereof:-

4. The admitted facts that marked upon attentive analysis of the evidences
on record are that informant Depali Laskar is the wife of the present accused.
The victim girl is his step-daughter. She was a school going girl at the relevant
time. In this case the prosecution has alleged that on a particular morning, when
the informant was not at home, the accused took the girl to his bed room from
her study table and committed penetrative sexual assault upon her. On 1*
appearance, it seems that the accused has committed a sinful act. But when this
court evaluates the testimony of the victim, it is seen that the whole prosecution
case is turned upside down. She in her evidence deposing as P.W. 1 has stated
that she had a very sweet relation with her father, the present accused. She has
further stated in a categorical manner that her father loves her immensely. She
has further very categorically ruled out any incident of the nature as alleged by
the prosecution to have ever taken place. She remains stead fast to the fact that
nothing happened involving herself. Her father has a pan shop and at the
relevant time, she was studying at Class-V. She has no knowledge that her
mother filed this criminal case against her father. She has also stated that she
knows nothing about any kind of occurrence. Thus from the evidence of P.W. 1, it
is crystal clear that the victim has refused to support the prosecution evidence.
Material suspect in the first incidence, she negatives the claim of the prosecution
that on the eventful day, she was studying in her room. Her mother was not
there. Thus, he took her to the bed room and committed penetrative assault
upon her. Negating all such allegations, she has rather stated that she has a very
sweet relation with her father and her father also loves her too much. Proceeding
further, we have found that FIR was lodged by one Depali Laskar. Now let us turn
attention to the evidence of this witnesses to see if she supports the prosecution
evidence or has demolished it. Upon attentive evaluation of P.W. 2, the informant,
it is seen that she lodged the FIR against her husband out of sheer anger. She
has further elaborated the matter by stating that during the period she was livid
with the conduct of the accused and out of frustration, she lodged Exhibit 1, the
FIR. She also remains very categorical to the fact that her husband did nothing
wrong to the victim. She has also stated that she has continued living as husband
and wife and there is no acrimony in between them. She has also stated that
she has very cordial relation with her husband and no incident as alleged ever
took place. Thus, we have found that the evidence of the informant and the
victim girl have totally unsettled the prosecution allegation. Both the mother and
the daughter have deposed that no incident as projected by the prosecution in
his case ever took place. Both of them have also stated that they have a very
cordial relation with the accused. The accused has immense love for his spouse
and at the time when Exhibit 1, the FIR came into existence,the informant was
very much offended with the conduct of the husband and to teach him a
lesson ,she lodged the FIR. However, she did not know the content of the FIR, as
it was written by someone else. The evidence of the rest of the P.W.s is formal in
nature P.W. 3 is a reported witness. He has very categorically stated that he has
no knowledge regarding the incident. P.W. 4 deposed likewise ; he has submitted
that he has a shop situated nearby. He knows the informant as well as the
accused and the victim. He also knows that the victim is the daughter of the
accused ; however he has no knowledge regarding the incident. Evidence of P.W.
5, is on the dotted line. She similarly has submitted that the victim is the
daughter of the informant. She knows the accused and she has no knowledge, if
ever anything occurred in the house of the informant. Thus, from the above
discussions, it is apparent that the prosecution has utterly failed to establish the
guilt of the accused for alleged commission of offence punishable under Section 4
of POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused is found
not guilty and is acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.

5. The bail bond of the accused stands discharged.
6. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open court on this 29" day of April,
2017 at Guwahati.

(M. Ahmed)
Sessions Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati

Dictated & corrected by me.

(M. Ahmed)

Sessions Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
APENDIX

(A) Prosecution Exhibits:

Exhibit 1: Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
Exhibit 2: FIR.

Exhibit 3: Printed form of the FIR.

(B) Defence Exhibit: Nil.
(C) Court Exhibit: Nil.

(D) Prosecution Witnesses:
PW-1 : Ms. Jamuna Laskar.
PW-2 : Smti. Depali Laskar.
PW-3 : Sri. Gopal Das.

PW-4 : Smti. Anu Bania.

PW-5 : Smti. Bharati Barman.
(E) Defence Witnesses: Nil

(F) Court Witnesses: Nil.

(M. Ahmed)
Sessions Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati.
