1 Special Case No.6/2017.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE : LAKHIMPUR :
AT NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

PRESENT- M.A.Choudhury,
Special J udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

SPECI AL CASE NO.6/ 2017.
Under Sections - 341/ 506/ 376/ 511 1PC and
Under Section - 8 of the POCSO Act.

PARTIES

State of Assam. ... Complainant.
-versus-

Md. Babul Hussain. ... Accused.

ADVOCATES APPEARED IN THE CASE:

Mr. Madhab Gogoi, Special Public Prosecutor. ... For the State of Assam.
Mr. Arup Bora, Advocate. ... For the Accused.
Date of framing of charge. :22.05.2017.
Date of taking evidence. (08.01.2018, 06.03.2018 & 06.08.2018.
Date of hearing Argument. :06.08.2018.
Date of delivery of J udgment. :06.08.2018.

UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution may in brief describe thus :
On 09.07.2016 at about 4.30 pm, while the victim X was
coming back to her house from the house of Md. Ali Hussain situated in her
village by attending a marriage ceremony, at that time, the accused, Babul
Hussain caught hold of her and started to take her by force to Dizoo Chapori L.P.
School to commit rape upon her person. At that time, she raised commotion and
on hearing her commotion, local people namely Moina Ali and Moidul Ali came
and then the accused, Babul Hussain fled away leaving her there.
Contd...
2 Special Case No.6/2017.

2. To this effect, the victim X on 10.07.2016 at about 11
am lodged an ejahar with Johing Police Out Post under North Lakhimpur Police
Station. The In-charge of Johing Police Out Post, on receiving the ejahar, made
G.D. Entry of the same vide GDE No.167 dtd. 10.07.2016 and forwarded the
same to the Officer-in-charge of North Lakhimpur PS for registering a case under
proper Sections of Law, and he had taken up the charge of investigation of the
case. The Officer-in-charge of North Lakhimpur P.S. on receiving the ejahar
registered a case vide North Lakhimpur P.S. Case No.718/2016 under Sections
341/ 506/ 376/ 511 IPC RW Sec.8 of the POCSO Act.

3. The police started the investigation of the case. In
course of investigation, the |.0. visited the place of occurrence and prepared
sketch map of the place of occurrence. The |.0. recorded the statement of the
witnesses u/s 161 CrPC. In course of investigation, the 1.0. got the victim X
examined by a doctor of North Lakhimpur Civil Hospital. The accused, Md. Babul
Hussain surrendered before the court and he was remanded to the judicial
custody. After completion of the investigation of the case, the |.0. found
sufficient incriminating materials against the accused, Md. Babul Hussain under
Sections 341/ 506/ 376/ 511 IPC and under Section 8 of the POCSO Act.
Accordingly, the 1.0. submitted the charge-sheet against the accused, Md. Babul
Hussain under Sections 341/ 506/ 376/ 511 IPC and under Section 8 of the
POCSO Act.

4. The accused, Md. Babul Hussain made his appearance
before the court and necessary copies were furnished to him. After hearing the
learned advocates of both sides and perusing the case record, sufficient
materials under Sections 341/ 506/ 376/ 511 IPC and under Section 8 of the
POCSO Act have been found against the accused person in the case record.
Accordingly, charges under Sections 341/ 506/ 376/ 511 IPC and under Section 8
of the POCSO Act were framed against the accused, Md. Babul Hussain by my
learned predecessor. The charges were read over and explained to the accused

person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

Contd...
3 Special Case No.6/2017.

5. In course of trial, the prosecution side examined 4 (four)

witnesses.

6. The recording of the statement of the accused person
under Section 313 CrPC is felt not necessary as because the prosecution
witnesses examined have not implicated the accused person in their evidence

regarding commission of any offence.

7. The accused person led no evidence in his defence.

8. Heard Argument from the learned advocates of both

sides.

9. Perused the case record and the evidence adduced by

the prosecution side in the case very carefully.

10. The points for determination in this case are :
(1) Whether the accused, Md. Babul Hussain on 09.07.2016 at 4.30 pm near
Dizoo Chapori L.P. School under North Lakhimpur Police Station had wrongfully
restrained the victim X?
(11) Whether the accused person had criminally intimidated the victim X?
(111) Whether the accused person thereafter attempted to commit rape upon the
victim X?

(1V) Whether the accused person had committed sexual assault on the victim X?

11. DECISION AND REASONS

The prosecution side examined 4 (four) witnesses. PW.1 is
the victim X of the case. PW.2 is Musstt. Mojida Begum, who is the mother of the
victim X. PW.3 is Md. Harmyj Ali, who is the father of the victim X. PW.4 is Md.
Saddam Hussain, who is the relative of the victim X.

PW.1, the victim X stated, in her evidence, that the
accused, Md. Babul Hussain is her husband. She has been living with the accused

Contd...
4 Special Case No.6/2017.

person as husband and wife. She also stated that the accused had never
committed any wrong to her. She, in her evidence, stated that the occurrence of
this case had taken place about 1 % years back. She also stated that on the day
of occurrence while she was going to a nearby L.P. School, the accused person
was sitting in a culvert on the road near the school and thereafter, some boys
watching her talking with the accused person, started to abuse them and
thereafter handed her and the accused person over to Johing Police Out Post,
and then she lodged the ejahar with the Police Station. She further stated that
the people suspected that they were in objectionable situation, so they were

handed over to the police.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.1, the victim X. On
careful scrutiny of the evidence of PW.1, | do not find any incriminating material

in her evidence against the accused person regarding commission of any offence.

PW.2, Musstt. Mojida Begum, in her evidence, stated that
the victim X is her daughter and the accused is her son-in-law. She also stated
that there was love affairs between the accused person and her daughter. She, in
her evidence, also stated that on the day of occurrence, the accused person and
the victim X were talking to each other near the school and some boys watching
them talking caught them and handed over them to the police. She, in her
evidence, stated that at present, the accused and her daughter victim X have

been living as husband and wife after they had been married.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.2, who is the mother
of the victim X. In her evidence, there is no incriminating material against the

accused person for committing any offence.

PW.3, Md. Harmuj Ali, in his evidence, stated that he
knows the accused, Babul Hussain. He also stated that the victim X Is his
daughter and the age of his daughter, at present, is 19 years. He, in his
evidence, also stated that there was love affairs between the accused and his
daughter victim X and thereafter, he gave marriage of his daughter victim X with

Contd...
5 Special Case No.6/2017.

the accused person. He, in his evidence, further stated that at present, his

daughter victim X is living in the house of the accused person as his wife.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.3, who is the father of
the victim X. On careful scrutiny of the evidence adduced by the PW.3, | do not
find any incriminating material in his evidence against the accused person

regarding commission of any offence.

PW.4, Md. Saddam Hussain, in his evidence, stated that
the victim is his own niece. He stated that the occurrence had taken place about
two years back. At the time of occurrence, he was going to the paddy field to
bring back the cattle heads, and then he saw the accused, Babul Hussain and the
victim X were talking to each other in front of Dizoo Chapori L.P. School. He, in
his evidence, also stated that then the nearby people caught hold the accused
and the victim X and handed over them to the police. He further stated that at
present, the accused and the victim X have been living together as husband and

wife after getting married.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.4. On careful scrutiny
of the evidence adduced by the PW.4, | do not find any incriminating material in

his evidence against the accused person regarding commission of any offence.

On careful scrutiny of the evidence adduced by the
prosecution witnesses, it is appeared that the prosecution side has failed to prove
the charges under Sections 341/ 506/ 376/ 511 IPC and under Section 8 of the
POCSO Act brought against the accused person, Md. Babul Hussain and the

accused person deserves to be acquitted.

13. |, therefore, hold the accused person, Md. Babul
Hussain not guilty and acquit him from the charges under Sections 341/ 506/
376/ 511 IPC and under Section 8 of the POCSO Act. The accused person is set
at his liberty forthwith.

Contd...
6 Special Case No.6/2017.

14. The bail bond of the accused person is cancelled and

his surety is discharged.

15. Given under my hand and the seal of this court on this
the 6" day of August, 2018.

( M. A. Choudhury )
Special | udge,

Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Dictated & corrected by me -

( M.A.Choudhury )
Special J udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by-
Sri Satyabrata Kshattry, Stenographer.

APPENDIX
1. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE :

PW.1 - Victim X.

PW.2 - Musstt. Mojida Begum.
PW.3 - Md. Harmyj Ali.

PW.4 - Md. Saddam Hussain.

2. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE :
Nil.

3. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED IN THE CASE :
NIL

( M. A. Choudhury )
Special | udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
