1

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 56/2018
U/S 376(AB) and section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

PRESENT : Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi, AJS,
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:- 12.02.2019
State of Assam

-Vs-
Gobinda Shill @ Gobinda Sarkar

Date of Recording Evidence on - 28.02.2019

Date of Hearing Argument on - 28.02.2019.

Date of Delivering the Judgment on - 28.02.2019.

Appearance :

Advocate for the State------------------ Mrs. P. Das, Learned Addl. P.P.

Advocate for the Accused-------------- Mr. Faijur Rahman, Learned Advocate.
UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that, on 12.07.2017 one Gita Dutta

lodged an FIR in Barpeta PS. alleging inter alia that on the same day at abot
4:30 pm accused persons named in the FIR by allegedly taking advantage of
absence of family members committed raped on her minor daughter by
offering Bhujiya, but she was somehow rescued by her. Hence the case.

2. Acting on the information police got a case registered being Barpeta
P.S. case No. 1213/17 u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and investigated the case.
3. On completion of investigation, police finally laid the charge sheet

against accused Gobinda Shill @ Gobinda Sarkar u/s 4 of POCSO Act with a
view to stand trial.

4. In due course, when accused entered his appearance in court vide
order dated 12.02.2019 all the particulars relating to the case were
furnished to accused. Thereafter, having heard the learned counsel and on
perusal of the record having found a prima facie case charge u/s 4 of POCSO
Act and 376(AB) IPC were framed. The substance of the offences on being
read over and explained accused pleaded not guilty and claim trial.
Z

5. During the course of trial, the prosecution examined 3 witnesses
namely the alleged victim as PW-1, Gita Dutta as PW-2 and Amal Dutta as
CW-1. However, considering the nature of evidence adduce by these
witnesses hearing to the learned Addl. P.P. further prosecution evidence
stands closed.

6. Examination of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C. is also dispensed with in view
of lack of implicating materials. The plea of the accused is total denial of the
prosecution case. As such, on being asked accused declined to adduce
defence evidence.

7; Now point for determination ;-

.1. Whether on 11.07.2017 at about 4:30 pm accused committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl (herein after referred
to as X) as alleged ?

.2. Whether on the same day and time accused committed rape on
the victim girl (herein after referred to as X) under the age of 12
years as alleged ?

8. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-

 

| have heard the learned lawyers appearing for both sides and also
carefully scanned the prosecution evidence available on record.
9. The learned counsel appearing for the State Smti. P. Das submitted
that though the prosecution examined 3 witnesses but the court may pass
judgment after assessment of evidence in view of poor quality of evidence
adduce by the prosecution witnesses.
10. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the accused
person vehemently contended that there is absolutely no evidence at all
implicating the accused person for recording conviction for the offences u/s
4 of POCSO Act and 376(AB) IPC. According to the learned defence counsel,
the prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of accused for sustaining
conviction for the aforesaid offences. As such, the learned counsel prays to
acquit the accused person.
11. In the context of the submission of the learned counsel appearing for
both sides it would be in the fitness of things to refer to section 4 as defined
in the POCSO Act 2012.

“4. Punishment for penetrative sexual assault. - Whoever
commits penetrative sexual assault shall be punished with imprisonment of
3

either description for a term which shall not be less then 7 years but which
may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.”

12. Now, on perusal of the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act and having heard
the learned counsels appearing for both sides and on careful perusal of the
evidence available on record particularly the evidence of the alleged victim
it transpires that she is unable to speak anything about the incident not to
speak of commission of the penetrative sexual assault against her. From her
evidence nothing can even be inferred even remotely that accused had
committed the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act or u/s 376 (AB) IPC.

13. In their evidence of PW-2 and PW-3 who are the father and mother of
the alleged victim in no uncertain terms stated that they have a frequent
quarrel with the accused regarding land and for this accused threw waste
materials into their land for which there was heated exchange of words
accompanied by filthy language against each other. Moreover, PW-2 was not
present in the house on the day of incident. PW-1 the alleged victim girl
could not say that anything had happened with her which clearly shows that
the minor girl was used as a shield by her parents to settle score. Their
evidence shows that they had a difference regarding land, but they used the
minor daughter to take revenge against accused by filing false and
concocted case against the accused person. Therefore, after appreciation of
evidence of the star witnesses namely the alleged victim girl, her parents
this court is of the considered view that proceeding further with the case for
recording evidence of remaining prosecution witnesses would be the cheer
waste of valuable time and energy of the court which would in the
estimation of the court would bring no fruitful result in the final count. The
informant the mother PW-1 deposed that she do not know how to read and
write and the contents of FIR was written by another person in the police
station. So, filing of FIR with misguided connotation cannot be ruled out.
Since ignorance is a curse, and considering the foolishness of the informant
this court do not propose to proceed against the informant for perjury as
provided u/s 193 IPC.

14. The above being the position, this court has no option but to acquit
the accused Gobinda Shill @ Gobinda Sarkar from the charges u/s 4 of
POCSO Act and 376(AB) IPC on the ground of benefit of doubt and set him at
liberty forthwith.

15. The terms of bail bond of accused is extended for a period of 6 (six)
months from to-day as provided U/S 437(A) of Cr.P.C.
4

16. Let a copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District
Magistrate, Barpeta as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.

17. Let case record be consigned to record room as per procedure.

18. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on 28th day of February,
2019, at Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me Sd/-
Sd/- (Sri C.B. Gogoi)
(Sri C.B. Gogoi) Special Judge,
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Barpeta.
APPENDIX

The prosecution has examined the following 3 nos. of witnesses:-

PW-1 = is the victim girl.
PW-2 = is Gita Dutta.
CW-1 = is Amal Dutta

The prosecution has exhibited only one document :

Ext. 1 = isthe FIR.
Ext.1(1) = is the signatures of Gita Dutta.

Sd/-

(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
