IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE titi: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.34/2019

State of Assam
Versus
(1) Md Momin Hussain
(2)Md Abul Kalam ____...... Accused

Present: Smti Mitali Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State |: MrM.K.Ghose, Special P.P.

Ld. advocate for the accused : Mr N. Roy

Evidence recorded on : 25.7.2019 and 11.9.2019
Argument heardon =: 30.9.2019

Judgment delivered on: 23.10.2019 (Judgment could not be
delivered due to absence of
accused on the date fixed).

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution story in brief is that on 19.4.2019 the
informant Smti Chintamoni Pahan lodged the first information report stating
to the effect that on 18.4.2019 at about 4 P.M. the accused persons namely
Abul Kalam and Momin Hussain kidnapped her minor daughter Dipali
Pahan from her house. Thereafter, the police recovered the victim from the
possession of the accused. It is also stated that the accused Abul Kalam
committed rape on the victim for two days. Hence, the first information

report.
Special Case No.34/19

2

2. On receipt of the first information report in Fakiragram Police
Station a case has been registered as Fakiragram P.S. case No.54/19 under
sections 366(A)/34 of IPC, Read With section 4 of POCSO Act and the case
was endorsed to the S.J. Ajoy Kr. Saha for investigation. During
investigation the I. O. visited to the place of occurrence, arrested the accused
persons Abul Kalam and Momin Hussain, medically examined the victim,
recorded the statement of the witnesses. The statement of the victim was
recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C. and after ascertaining the minor age of
the victim, the charge sheet has been filed by I.O. under sections 366(A)/34
of IPC, read with section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused Abul Kalam
and under section 366(A)/34 against the accused Momin Hussain. Relevant
copies accordingly furnished to the accused persons by this court and the
charge under section 366(A)/34 of IPC, read with section 4 of POCSO Act
were framed against the accused Abul Kalam and under section 366(A)/34
of IPC was framed against the accused Momin Hussain finding a prima-facie
case. The charges were read over and explained to the accused persons to
which they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
3. The prosecution side examined as many as 5 (Five) number of
witnesses including the informant and the victim as follows:-

P.W. 1 Smti Chintamoni Pahan (Informant),

P.W. 2 Miss Dipali Pahan (Victim),

P.W. 3 Sri Tlu Pahan,

P.W.4 Sri Kinu Urao and

P.W.5 Sri Atowa Pahan
4.

Special Case No.34/19

3

The accused persons took the plea of total denial while

recording their statements under section 313 of Cr.P.C. and declined to

adduce any evidence.

3.

6.

Points for determination:

(1) Whether the accused Abul Kalam induced the victim Dipali
Pahan to go with him and with intent that there is likelihood
that Dipali Pahan may be seduced or illicit intercourse with
another person ?

(2) Whether the accused Abul Kalam committed the offence of
penetrative sexual assault to the minor victim Miss Dipali
Pahan ?

(3) Whether the accused Momin Hussain induced the victim
Dipali Pahan to go with him and with intent that there is
likelihood that Dipali Pahan may be seduced or illicit
intercourse with another person ?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

 

To arrive at a just decision I have thoroughly perused the

evidences of prosecution witnesses, assessed them and heard argument put

forwarded of both sides and the case is decided as follows:-

7.

PW1, informant of this case deposed that the incident took

place about three months ago. At about 7 P.M. both the accused persons

came to their house as she addressed them as her brothers and after having

tea in her house they were roaming near their house with her daughter Dipali

Pahan. Thereafter, one police officer met them and on suspicion the police

took them to the police station and at about 9 P.M. she got information and

then she came to police station when the police wrote something on a paper
Special Case No.34/19

4
and asked her to put her signature. She does not know what was written in
the first information report and she put her signature in the FIR as per
instruction of the police. In her cross she stated that the accused persons
used to come her house and she also visited to the house of the accused as
she addressed them as her brothers.
8. PW2, victim of this case deposed that the incident took place
about three months ago and on the day of incident her mother invited her
uncles to have a cup of tea and after having tea they were roaming on the
road when the police vehicle came and took her and accused Abul Kalam to
the P.S. Thereafter the police informed her mother and after arrival of her
mother the police handed over her to her mother and on the next day she was
medically examined. In her cross she stated that she gave her statement
before the Magistrate as per instruction of some people and police officer.
The accused Abul Kalam did not commit rape on her and accused Momin
Hussain did not kidnap her.
9. PW3 deposed in his evidence that the incident took place about
6/7 months ago at night when he was sleeping one Kinu Urao asked him to
wake up and told him that the daughter of Chintamoni Pahan and two
Muslims boys were taken by the police and he came with Kinu Urao and
informed about the matter to the informant Chintamoni Pahan.
10. PW4 stated in his evidence that the incident took place in the
night at about 10.30/ 11 P.M. When he was sleeping he received a phone call
from Fakiragram P.S. who intimated him that the daughter of Chintamoni
Pahan and two other persons were brought in the P.S. and he made contact
with Tulu Pahan and visited to the house of the informant and informed

about the matter.
Special Case No.34/19

5
11. PW5 deposed in his evidence that the incident took place in the
month of April of this year and on the next day morming when he found
missed call of the Officer-in-charge of Fakiragram P.S. he made contact with
him and then police asked him to go to the police station and when he
reached the P.S. the police informed him that on the previous night he
brought the daughter of Chintamoni Pahan with two other persons when they
were found in the bike in the night. He does not know about the incident. He
further deposed that the police seized birth certificate of the victim in his
presence and he also put his signature in the seizure list. In his cross he
stated that he does not know the victim girl.
12. From the testimonies of prosecution witnesses, it is seen that
the most vital witness of the prosecution i.e. the informant and the victim of
the case did not support the prosecution version. The informant does not
know the contents of the first information report. In the same time the PW2
(victim) also deposed that she gave her statement only as per instruction by
police. These two vital witnesses did not bring any allegation of kidnapping
or penetrative sexual assault against the accused persons.
13. So from the detail discussion made above, it is seen that the
prosecution could not establish the case against the accused Abul Kalam
under section 366(A)/34 of IPC, Read With Section 4 of POCSO Act and
under section 366(A)/34 of IPC against the accused Momin Hussain beyond
all reasonable of doubt and hence giving the benefit of doubt, I hereby acquit
the accused persons and set them at liberty forthwith.

The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under
my hand and seal of the court on this 23rd October/2019 at Kokrajhar court.
Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
