:: IN _ THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE ::::: NALBARI ::

Present : Mrs. S. Begum.
Sessions Judge,
Nalbari.

SESSIONS SPL (P)CASE NO : 37/2017
u/s-376 IPC R/W Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

State Of ASSAM .........cccccceeseeeeens Complainant
-Vs-
Md. Safikul ISlam.........cccccceeeeeeeeees Accused person.
Appearance :-

For the prosecution : Mr. K.K. Sarma, Spl.Public Prosecutor
For the defence : Mr. J. Abedin, Advocate.
Date of argument : 18/01/2019
Date of Judgment : 04/02/2019.

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in brief is that one Md. Saiful Islam lodged an
ejahar alleging inter alia that accused Safikul Islam since few days back used to
give slang gesture towards his minor sister Rahima Begum (herein after referred
as Miss “X”) aged 14 years. It is alleged that on the date of occurrence i.e on
26/06/17 while the victim went to river, then taking the advantage of absence of
any other person in the said place the said accused committed rape upon the
victim by dragging her into the jute cultivation. Hearing the hue and cry of the
victim while her mother Sabiha Khatoon came to the said place she caught the
accused red handed and raised hue and cry. While people came hearing hue and

cry, then accused fled away from the place of occurrence.

2. Police force set into motion on receipt of the ejahar and police on
completion of the investigation submitted charge-sheet against accused Md.
Safikul Islam u/s-376 IPC r/w sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

3. While the accused entered into his appearance before this court getting

prima facie material against the accused u/s-376 IPC r/w sec. 4 of the POCSO
Act charge was framed accordingly and read over to the accused to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution to bring home charge against the accused examined as
many as seven witnesses including informant and the victim. The case of the

accused is of denial.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION.

(i) Whether the accused on 26/6/2017 at village Kalarchar under
Bhangnamari PS committed rape upon Miss 'X' and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s-376 IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused on 26/06/2017 at village Kalarchar under
Bhangnamari P.S committed penetrative sexual assault upon Miss 'X', aged about

14 years and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s-4 of the POCSO Act ?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

6. I have carefully scrutinized the evidence on record and heard argument
forwarded by learned counsel for both the sides. Now to arrive at a judicious
decision let me discuss and appreciate the testimony of the prosecution
witnesses. At the out set let me discuss the evidence of PW-2 Sabiha. she
testified during her evidence that one year ago quarrel happened between her
and the accused for the dispute relating to the boundary of their cultivable land.
The quarrel happened on the date of Idd. Festival. She was at her own cultivable
land. Later on the victim also arrived at the said place and while she questioned
the accused why he was quarreling with her mother then accused pushed her.
While they returned back to the house her son Saiful Knowing about the said fact

lodged ejahar. It is denied by her that her daughter was raped by the accused.

7s PW-3 the victim testified that on the day of Idd quarrel happened

between her mother and the accused for the boundary dispute relating to their
land which was at Bhangnamari Char near the Brahmaputra river. The accused
pushed her mother. While she noticed accused quarreled with her mother, then

she inquired the accused why he quarreled with her mother, then he pushed her.

8. PW-4 Zinnat Ali disclosed about hearing the incident of quarrel between

the accused and victim and her mother on the date of occurrence.

9. PW-5 Saiful Islam who is the informant cum brother of the victim only
disclosed about some quarrel between the accused and his mother near the bank
of river Brahmaputra for boundary dispute of their cultivable land. It is further
disclosed that after getting information about the said quarrel he lodged the
ejahar. It is disclosed that except the quarrel for land dispute no other incident

happened.

10. PW-6, Anima Begum supported the fact that for the land dispute quarrel
happened between the victim's mother and the acucsed. She disclosed that the

accused did not perform any bad work with the victim.

11. PW-7 Saleha Begum deposed in the same tune as that of PW-6.

12. PW-1 Dr. Dipti Choudhury is the medical officer of this case. On 25/07/17
she examined Miss 'X' D/O-Late Raij Uddin of village Bhangnamari under
Bhangnamari PS who was escorted by WPC Pulu Das of Bhangnamri PS in
connection with Bhangnamri PS 25/17 u/s-376 R/W sec 4 of the POCSO Act and
found as follows :-

Her external genitalia was found healthy. Vagina healthy and it admits
two fingers. Hymen was torn. Vaginal sperm was sent for laboratory test for
sperm determination but no sperm was seen. X-Ray was advised for age
determination. X-Ray report shows that estimated age of the victim is above 16
years and below 18 years. Clinical opinion shows that the patient is not
consistent with recent sexual intercourse or assault. She exhibited Ext-1 as the
medical report and Ext-1(1) & 1(2) as her signature. Ext-2 as the X-Ray report
submitted by Dr. P.K Sarma.
13. From the foregoing evidence now let me decide whether the prosecution
has been able to establish a case u/s-376 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

14. In the instant case in the ejahar it is reflected that victim Miss 'X' who is a
minor girl aged 14 years was raped by the accused. However, the ejahar is not a
substantive piece of evidence. On the perusal of the evidence of victim Miss 'X',
and the mother of the victim (PW-2) it appears that nowhere they stated
anything regarding commission of rape upon the victim by the accused. PW-5
who is the informant cum brother of the victim also remained silent regarding
happening of any rape incident upon the victim about which he disclosed in the
ejahar. All the vital witnesses including victim did not support the prosecution
case. Instead they stated that some quarrel happened between the victim's
mother Sabiha with the accused for boundary dispute and that victim and the
mother of the victim were pushed to the ground by the accused for the said
quarrel. Except disclosing about boundary dispute and pushing the victim and her
mother to the ground for the said dispute no other allegation was brought by the
said important witnesses regarding commission of rape upon the victim by the
accused. The independent witnesses, Saleha Begum, Zinnat Ali also did not
support the prosecution case. They only stated about some quarrel between the

victim's mother and the accused for some boundary dispute.

15. As evidence is lacking regarding the fact that victim was raped by accused
or that penetrative sexual offence was committed by the accused upon the victim

so I have no other option but to acquit the accused on benefit of doubt.

16. Prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case against the accused
u/s-376 r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, accused Safikul Islam is

acquitted from the above mentioned section.

17. The accused Safikul Islam will go on a fresh bail of Rs.10,000/- with one
surety of like amount u/s-437-A IPC assuring that he will appear before the
higher court as and when such court issue notice in respect of any appeal or

petition filed against the judgment and order of this court.

18. | Judgment is pronounced at the open court in presence of the accused.
19. Judgment written in separated sheet be kept with record.

Given under my hand and the seal of this court on this the 4" day of
Feb/2019.

Send a copy of judgment to District Magistrate, Nalbari.

Dictated and corrected by me Session Judge,
Nalbari.
Sessions Judge,
Nalbari.
Contd.
APPENDIX
A. Prosecution witness.

PW-1 Dr. Dipti Choudhury(M).
PW-2 Musstt. Sabiha Begum.

PW-3 Musstt. Rahima Khatoon.
PW-4Md. Zinnat Ali.

PW-5 Md. Saiful Islam.

PW-6 Musstt. Aimana Begum.

PW-7 Saleha Begum.

Defence witness.
Nil.

Prosecution Exhibit.
Ext-1 Medical report.
Ext-2 X-Ray report.
Ext-3 Ejahar.

Defence _ Exhibit.

Nil.

Sessions Judge,
Nalbari.
