Page 1 of 19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused
u/s 313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

08 OF 2015
(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 741 of
2015)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

=-Vs-
Md. Safiqul Islam,
Son of Md. Nurul Haque,
Resident of Komarchuburi,
Police Station — Thelamara
Dist:+Sonitpur, Assam
20/05/2015

30/06/2015, 03/08/2015,
04/09/2015, 05/10/2015
22/02/2017 & 14/08/2017

26/03/2017 & 14/08/2017.

21/10/2017

31/10/2017

Mr. Munin Chandra baruah
Special Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Mr. B. Borthakur, Advocate.
Page 2 of 19

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Safiqul Islam is put for trial for allegation
of charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

Zs The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or
about 1 p.m. of 08-04-2015 accused called informant’s 5 years old
minor daughter from the paddy field to the site of Belsiri riever and
committed rape on her under Banana tree. When the girl reported the
informant about the incident by arising alarm then informant came to
know about the incident. The ejahar was lodged«by .Musstt Aleka
Khatoon before the O/C of Thelamara Police Station on 08-04-2015.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, the Officer-In-Charge of Thelamara
Police Station registered a case being Thelamara’P.S. Case No. 18/15
u/s 376(f)/511 of the IPC read with section 6 of the POCSO Act. After
completion of usual investigation, the.O/C Thelamara Police Station
sent up the case record forstrial against the accused by filing charge
sheet u/s 376(2)(f)of the IPC read with section 6 of the POCSO Act.

4. On being.appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, my.learned predecessor, framed charge under section 6
of the POCSO..Act, 2012 against the accused and particulars of the
charge was read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not

guilty.and claims to be tried.

5 To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as
nine numbers of witnesses. After completion of prosecution evidence,
accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against
the accused and evidence appears against the accused are put before
him for his explanation where he denied the allegations, evidence and

declined to adduce defence evidence.

6. I have also heard argument put forwarded by learned counsels
of both the parties.

 
Page 3 of 19

qi The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) “Whether, on 08-04-2015 at about 1 p.m. under the Banana
Trees situated near Belsiri river, under Thelamara Police Station,
the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim
Miss "X”, aged about 5 years and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate. the

evidence on record.

9. PW 1, six years old victim Miss “X examined by my
predecessor-in-court after making enquiry by putting some questions
and recorded her statement on satisfaction that the victim was able to
give answers to the questions asked to her. She stated that her
brother’s name is Majid Ali. Herselder.sister is Taslima. She knows the
accused. On the day of incident,.she»went to the bank of the river to
see goats. On that day,she.did_not go to school. Safiqul called her to
give “Tarmuj” (water melon) and took her near Banana tree and there
Safiqul openeds#her \pant and made her lie down and did sexual
intercourse with her( Mok Putki Marisile). Accused removed his lungi.
After that. hersstomach pained. Thereafter, her aunt Ajuba Khatoon
broughtsher from the place of occurrence to her house. Her mother
and father had gone to work at that time. Her father came to house
lateron. On that day she was brought to police by her father and she

was also taken to Doctor.

In cross-examination, she admitted that her father told her to
tell that accused did her (putki marisile). On the day of incident the
accused was wearing a black lungi. In the place of occurrence there
were banana trees. On the day of incident she herself, Somu, Hasan
and Bantu also went there. At that place there was cultivation of
watermelon. In the place of occurrence there was Tarmuj cultivation of
the accused. Accused had kept watermelon near Banana trees. Her

friends also have their own goats. Their goats were kept under Banana

 
Page 4 of 19

trees. They also took watermelon from the accused's field. Accused
chased them and she fell down in the drain. She suffered pain in her

leg. She knows Miraj Ali.

10. PW 2 Aleka Khatoon stated that she knows the accused. Victim
is her daughter. At present she is six years old. The incident occurred
about two months ago, at about 1 p.m. At that time, she went to
work. At about 2 p.m. she reached her house. When she reached
home, she found her daughter in the house of her mother-in-law»She
was crying and she told that her stomach is paining and her vagina
was irritating. She told her that she went to see goat near water melon
cultivation near the bank of Belsiri river. Her daughter.told her that she
was called by the accused to under bananastree to give her water
melon. Accused removed her pant, made.her lie down and accused
opened his lungi and committedy“Putki marisile’ with her. She saw
private parts of her daughter and her private parts was bleeding.
Thereafter, she went to police station. At that time her husband went
to Thelamara for work. She lodged an FIR in Thelamara town. The FIR
was written by a person near police station. He was told about the
incident by her and her.daughter. Ext. 1 is the said FIR and Ext.1(1) is
her signature, Police took her daughter to Kanaklata Civil Hospital.
Lateron, she was discharged. Her daughter was brought to the court
for recording her statement on the next day and her statement was

recorded. Rubina is at present reading in “Ka” standard.

In cross-examination she admitted the FIR was written on
instruction of O/C of Thelamara police station. The meaning of “Putki
mara” is rape. She did not report police that her daughter told her that
her stomach paining and her private part was irritating. Similarly the
fact that accused made her lie down and after opening his lungi he
committed sexual intercourse on her and she did not say this to police.
The place of occurrence was the watermelon cultivation field of the

accused. Their uncle Majid had one goat.

 
Page 5 of 19

11. PW 3 Dr. Tutumoni Handique, stated that on 08-04-2015 she
was posted as working as Medical & Health Officer-1 in the Kanaklata
Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at about 4 p.m. in the labour
room complex of KCH, Tezpur she examined Rabina Khatoon, 5 years,
female, D/O Md. Taijuddin of village Kamrchuburi, PS Thelamara, in
reference to Thelamara PS GD E NO. 153 dt. 08-04- 15, on being
escorted and identified by Woman Police Constable 38 Chitralekha
Das. She was examined in presence of GNM Kamala Talukdar. On

examination she found the following:

Exposure history — Exposure present on 07-04-15.

Height — 102 cm, Weight — 15°Kg, Teeth — 5 in all four
quadrants. Identification mark — mole in the left arm. Average built,
normal gait. Bruise present in the perineum area. ‘Hymen absent.

Investigations advised and reports-

1. X-ray for age.determination — Age of the person
under .investigation is below 10 years. Done at
Assam»x-ray Clinical & Laboratory, Radiologist — Dr.
P. K. Barman

2.=Vaginal smear for spermatozoa — no sperm. Done at
KCH Laboratory.

OPINION:

1. Age of the person under investigation is below 10
years.

2. Bruise present in the perineum area.
The victim was advised to attend the Gyno OPD.

Enclosure:

1. Police requisition, Advice slip
2. Vaginal smear for spermatozoa report.
3. X-ray report with plates.
Ext. 2 is the Medical Report and Ext. 2(1) is her signature. Ext.
3 & 4 are the advice slip and Ext. 3(1) & 4(1) are her signatures. Ext. 5

is the doctor’s advice slip for registration. Ext. 6 is the laboratory

 
Page 6 of 19

report. Ext. 7 is the X-ray report with plates and Ext. 7 (1) is the

signature of Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist.

In cross-examination, the doctor admitted that perineum area
means the outside of the vagina. She is unable to opine regarding the
commission of rape on the victim. The injury caused to victim may also

caused by falling on hard substance.

12. PW 4 Sahara Khatoon stated that she knows the™»accused
Safigul Islam. Victim is also known to her. About 3 / 4.months.ago, at
about 3/ 4 p.m. she was in her home. At that time victim along with
her son and daughter went to look for goats. Thereafter,,her son and
daughter returned. She met Robina lateron. She informed her that
accused committed bad acts on her. She has also stated to her that

“Safikul committed putki on her.

In cross-examination, she admitted that the place of
occurrence (the watermelon \cultivation) is about approximately 200
meters away from her‘house. The way to the watermelon cultivation of
her house is a “Katcha”.and there are drains on both sides. When
accused chasedsthe victim and her children they fell in the drain. All of
them were wearing*half pants. None of them were injured after felling
in the‘drains, Ajufa Khatoon went to the place of occurrence but she did
not’go there. Her daughter Sumaya is 2 years one month old and her

son's age is about 5 years. She is the aunty of the victim.

13. PW 5 Ajufa Khatoon stated that she knows accused. Victim is
also known to her. She is about 5 years old. About 3 / 4 months ago,
at about 3 / 4 p.m. when the victim went to the river bank to look for
goats. She heard the cries of Rabina. Then she went towards
watermelon cultivation. She met Rabina she was crying and told her
that accused Saifqul opened her pant and committed putkimara on
her and thereafter she also look to the private part of Rabina. There

was a swelling in the private parts and it was bleeding.

 
Page 7 of 19

In cross-examination she admitted that the place of occurrence
is on the bank of Belsiri river. Victim was accompanied by Arijul to the
watermelon cultivation. There was altercation between Safiqul and
father of the victim regarding felling of bamboos of victim's father.
Safiqul also lodged an FIR in this regard. Rabina’s father took bail from
the police station. She is the aunt of victim. Her house is situated near
the house of the victim girl. Police came to the house of the victim.
She also went there. Police has taken away the wearing pant and. frock

of victim. She saw stains on the pant of victim.

14, PW 6SI Tankeswar Bhuyan, the I.O. has statedsthat on 08-04-
2015 he was working as Attached Officer at Thelamapra Police Station.
On that day, the Officer-in-charge of Thelamara Police Station Maruf
Ashraf Hussain, received an FIR from.one Aleka Khatoon, wife of
Taijuddin of Kamarchuburi and registered a case being Thelamara PS
18/15 u/s 376(f)/511 of IPC r/w section 6 of the POCSO Act, and
endorsed him for the investigation of the said case. Ext. 1 is the said
FIR and Ext. 1(2) is the signature of SI Maruf Ashraf Hussain, O/C of
Thelamara PS which is*Known to him. Thereafter, he visited the place
of occurrence, ixe. Nnear.the bank of Belsiri river and drew up a sketch
map of the place of occurrence. Ext. 8 is the sketch map of the place
of occurrence, and Ext. 8(1) is his signature. He recorded the
statement*of the witnesses at the place of occurrence. On the same
day), he*recorded the statement of the victim and sent the victim girl
for. medical examination. On the same day, as the accused
surrendered before the Police Station he arrested the accused Safiqul
Islam and on the next day, he forwarded him to the Court. On 09-04-
2015 he has sent the victim girl for recording her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C to the court and after completion of preliminary investigation,
he collected the medical report and submitted charge-sheet u/s
376(2)(f) IPC r/w section 6 of the POCSO Act against the accused
Safiqul Islam. Ext. 9 is the charge-sheet and Exhibit 9(1) is his

signature.

 
Page 8 of 19

In cross-examination, he admitted that the time of receipt of
FIR is not mentioned in the case diary. He has not mentioned in the
case diary the time of himself going to the place of occurrence. On 08-
04-2014 he recorded the statement Ajuba, Majida and Sahara in the

Police Station.

15. PW 7 Majida Khatoon stated before the court that she knows
accused Safiqul. She also knows the Victim girl. The incident occurred
about 5 months ago. On the day of incident, at about: 10/11 a.m.
victim girl and other children of her sister when went to. mend their
goats, the accused asked other children to sit in the field and he took
the victim girl near banana trees and pretext..of giving her “Tormuj”
(water melon) and committed bad acts on‘hersSon of her sister, Oijul

told her about the incident.

In cross-examination, she*admitted that victim girl is her niece.
Oijul did not went to the place,of.incident. After one hour she went to
the place of the incident. What.she has deposed in the court has been

reported to her by Ojjul.

16. PW 8 Maruf A.H. Ahmed, SI of police, stated before the court
that on 08-04-2015 he was posted at Thelamara Police Station as
Officer-in-charge and after receiving the FIR from Aleka Khatoon,
registered~a case being Thelamara PS Case No. 18/2015 u/s
376(f)/511 of the IPC r.w section 6 of the POCSO Act and endorsed
the.case to SI Tankeswar Bhuyan for investigation of this case. At the
time of inviestigation so far he knows SI Tankeswar Bhuyan was a
normal person. At present he heard that said SI Tankeswar Bhuyan is

suffering from mental illness.

In cross-examination, he admitted that in fact there is no any
certificate to show that at the time of investigation SI Tankeswar

Bhuyan was normal.

17. PW 9 Mrs. Meenakshi Sarma, stated that on 09-04-2015 she

was working as Judicial Magistrate, 1% class, Tezpur and on that day in

 
Page 9 of 19

reference to Missamari PS Case No. 18/15 she has examined one
minor witness i.e. the victim namely, Miss X and recorded her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. in her court chamber and she was escorted
and identified by WPC Chitralekha Das. Since the victim is less than 12
years, so oath was not taken. Further, the victim being 5 years old,
certain questions were asked to her inorder to come to a conclusion as
to whether she could state the manner of incident. The victim answer
the aforesaid questions put to her easily. However, since™seventy
percent of the language could be understood, her. mother. Aleka
Khatoon was taken as interpreter for proper and better understanding
of what victim is stating. Accordingly, statement .of the victim was
recorded in presence of her mother Aleka Khatoons The victim made
statement voluntarily. After recording her.statement, she has read over
the contents of the statement and on satisfaction, her mother put
Signature thereon. Ext. 9 the statement of the victim and Ext. 9(1) is
the signature of her mother. Aleka) Khatoon. Her mother put her

Signature in her presence and Ext. °9(2) is her signature.

18. These much is*the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence

plea is total denial while,his statement was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

19. Ihave heard the arguments put forwarded by learned counsels
of both the sides.

20. bearned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has.failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, the
victim herself admitted that her father told her to tell that accused did
her (Putki Marisele). On the day of incident, the accused was wearing
black lungi. In the place of occurrence there were Babanas trees,
therefore, victim made such statement as she was tutored by father.
Secondly, at the place of occurrence, according to the victim Somu,
Hasan and Bantu were also there but prosecution has failed to
examine the aforesaid witnesses for which it caste doubt about the
evidence of the prosecution. Thirdly, according to the doctor who

examined the victim stated that “bruise present in the perineum area”

 
Page 10 of 19

but there is a clear evidence of victim that when the accused chased
them while they took watermelon from the accused's field, they ran
and fell down in the drain as such she suffered pain in her leg.
Besides, PW 4 also admitted that at the relevant time accused chased
the victim and her children, they fell in the drain, therefore, the injury
as found by the doctor may be caused by falling on a drain. Fourthly,
though PW 2 mother of the victim and PW 5 Ajufa Khatoon stated that
after complaining about the alleged incident they saw thesvictim’s
private parts was found bleeding but victim nowhere whisper, about
any injury, bleeding or swelling on her private parts in the court.
Fifthly, PW 5 Afuja Khatoon, aunt of the victim herself, stated that
there was a quarrel in between the father of the victim and accused as
she also admitted that there was an altercation between father of the
victim and accused regarding felling of.bamboo of victim’s father.
Therefore, the accused had also lodged ‘an FIR where the victim’s
father took bail from the police station. Therefore due to said grudge
the complainant filed this case.against the accused with a concocted

story. Under such circumstances, accused is required to be acquitted.

21. On the othershand, learned Special Public Prosecutor submitted
that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond any doubt
against, the. accused, hence, the accused is required to be convicted

under the charged section.

22. © Keeping in mind the argument advanced by learned counsels of

both sides, I am going to dispose of the case.

23. Before entering into the record, I am inclined to see what is the
ingredients of section 5 of the POCSO Act to convict the accused u/s 6
of the POCSO Act.

24. To prove the charge under section 6 of the Protection of Child

from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, prosecution must prove that —

 
Page 11 of 19

Section 5-_sexual assault-

“ 5, Aggravated penetrative sexual assault.-(a)
Whoever, being a police officer, commits penetrative sexual assault on
a child-

(i) within the limits of the police station or premises at which
he is appointed; or

(ii) in the premises of any station house, whether or not
situated in the police station, to which he is appointed; or

(iii) in the course of his duties or otherwise; or

(iv) where he is known as, or identified as, a police officer; or

(b) whoever being a member of the armed forces or security

forces
commits penetrative sexual assault on a child-

(i) within the limits of the area to which the person is
deployed; or (ii) in any areas under the command of the forces or
armed forces; or (iii) in the course of his duties.or‘otherwise; or

(iv) where the said person is known or identified as a member

of the
security or armed forces; or

(c) whoever being a public servant,commits penetrative
sexual assault on a chil d; or

(d) whoever being on the management or on the staff of a
jail, remand home, protection home, observation home, or other place
of custody or care and protection.established by or under any law for
the time being in force, commits»penetrative sexual assault on a child,
being inmate of such jail, remand home, protection home, observation
home, or other place of*custody or care and protection; or

(e) whoever being on the management or staff of a hospital,
whether Government or private. commits penetrative sexual assault on
a child in that. hospital; or

(f) whoever being on the management or staff of an
educational institution or religious institution, commits penetrative
sexUalhassault on a child in that institution; or

(g) whoever commits gang penetrative sexual assault on a
child.

Explanation.-When a child is subjected to sexual assault by
one or more persons of a group in furtherance of their common
intention, each of such persons shall be deemed to have committed
gang penetrative sexual assault within the meaning of this clause and
each of such person shall be liable for that act in the same manner as
if it were done by him alone; or

(h) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child
using deadly weapons, fire, heated substance or corrosive substance;
or

(i) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault causing
grievous hurt or causing bodily harm and injury or injury to the sexual
organs of the child; or

(j) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child,
which-

 
Page 12 of 19

(i) physically incapacitates the child or causes the child to
become mentally ill as defined under clause (1) of section 2 of the
Mental Health Act, 1987 (14 of 1987) or causes impairment of any kind
so as to render the child unable to perform regular tasks, temporarily
or permanently; or

(ii) in the case of female child, makes the child pregnant
as a consequence of sexual assault;

(iii) inflicts the child with Human Immunodeficiency Virus
or anyother life threatening disease or infection which may either
temporarily or permanently impair the child by rendering him physically
incapacitated, or mentally ill to perform regular tasks; or

(k) whoever, taking advantage of a child's mental or physical
disability, commits penetrative sexual assault on the child; or

(1) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on the child
more than once or repeatedly; or

(m) whoever commits penetrative sexualsassault on a child
below twelve years; or

(n) whoever being a relative of the.child through blood or
adoption or marriage or guardianship or in foster.care or having a
domestic relationship with a parent of the child.or who is living in the
same or shared household with the child), commits penetrative sexual
assault on such child; or

(0) whoever being, in the ownership, or management, or
staff, of any institution providing services to the child, commits
penetrative sexual assault on.the child; or

(p) whoever being in, a\position of trust or authority of a child
commits penetrative sexualassault on the child in an institution or
home of the child or anywhere. else; or

(q) whoever..commits penetrative sexual assault on a child
knowing the child.is pregnant; or

(r) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child and
attempts tosmurder the child; or

(s)\whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child in
the course of communal or sectarian violence; or

(t) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child and
who ‘has -teen previously convicted of having committed any offence
under this Act or any sexual offence punishable under any other law
for the time being in force; or

(u) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child
and makes the child to strip or parade naked in public, is said to
commit aggravated penetrative sexual assault.

This clause defines the offence of aggravated penetrative
sexual assault. It provides that a person is said to commit aggravated
penetrative sexual assault, if he-

(a) being a police officer, commits penetrative sexual assault
on a child -(i) within the limits of the police station or premises at
which he is appointed; or (ii) in the premises of any station house,
whether or not situated in the police station, to which he is appointed;

 
Page 13 of 19

or (iii) in the course of his duties or otherwise; or (iv) where he is
known as, or identified as, a police officer; or

(b) being a member of the armed forces or security forces
commits penetrative sexual assault on a child -(i) within the limits of
the area to which the person is deployed; or (ii) in any areas under the
command of the forces or armed forces; or (iii) in the course of his
duties or otherwise; or (iv) where the said person is known or
identified as a member of the security or armed forces; or

(c) being a public servant commits penetrative sexual*assault
on a child; or

(d) being on the management or on the staff of a jail» remand
home, protection home, observation home, or other place of custody
or care and protection established by or under.any ‘law for the time
being in force, commits penetrative sexual, assault on a child, being
inmate of such jail, remand home, protection home, observation home,
or other place of custody or care and protection; or

(e) being on the management.or staff of a hospital, whether
Government or private, commits ‘penetrative sexual assault on a child
in that hospital; or

(f) being on the management or staff of an educational
institution, commits penetrative sexual assault on a child in that
institution; or

(g)commits gang penetrative sexual assault; or

(h) commits penetrative sexual assault on a child using deadly
weapons, fire, heated substance or corrosive substance; or

(i) commits penetrative sexual assault causing grievous hurt
or.causing injury t6 the sexual organs of the child; or

(j) commits penetrative sexual assault upon a child which - (i)
physically incapacitates the child or causes the child to become
mentally ill or to become mentally unfit to perform regular tasks,
temporarily or permanently; or (ii) in the case of female child, makes
the child pregnant as a consequence of sexual assault; (iii) inflicts the
child with Human Immunodeficiency Virus or any other life threatening
disease or infection which may either temporarily or permanently
impair the child by rendering him physically incapacitated, mentally ill
or mentally unfit to perform regular tasks; or

 
Page 14 of 19

(k) commits penetrative sexual assault on a child taking
advantage of his mental or

physical disability; or

(1) commits penetrative sexual assault on the child more than
once or repeatedly; or

(m) commits penetrative sexual assault on a child below
twelve years; or

(n) being a relative of the"child through blood or,adoption or
marriage or guardianship or in foster care, or having ay domestic
relationship with a parent of the child, or who is living in the same or
shared household with the child, commits penetrative sexual assault on
such child; or

(0) being, in the ownership, or management, or staff, of any
institution providing services to the child, commits penetrative sexual
assault on the child; or

(p) being in a position of trust‘or authority of a child commits
penetrative sexual assault.on.the child in an institution or home of the
child or anywhere else;.or

(q) commits penetrative sexual assault on a child knowing the
child is pregnant; or

(r) commits,penetrative sexual assault on a child and attempts
to. murder the child; or (Ss) commits penetrative sexual assault
on achild in the course of communal or sectarian violence; or

(t) commits penetrative sexual assault on a child and who has
been*previously convicted of having committed any offence under this
Act*or any sexual offence punishable under any other law for the time
being in force. (Notes on Clauses).

25. A close scrutiny of the record, it appears that in this type of
case, the evidence of the victim is most important.

Law is well settled that in a case of rape, the onus is always on
the prosecution to prove affirmatively each ingredient of the offence it
seeks to establish and such onus never shifts. It is no part of the duty
of the defence to explain as to how and why in a rape case the victim

and her mother have falsely implicated the accused. The main

 
Page 15 of 19

evidence in all such cases is that of the victim herself. In practice a
conviction for rape almost entirely depends on the credibility of the
woman, so far as the essential ingredients are concerned, the other
evidence being merely corroborative. It is not necessary that there
should be independent corroboration of every material circumstance in
the sense that the independent evidence in the case, apart from the
testimony of the complainant, should in itself be sufficient to sustain
conviction. All that is required is that there must be some additional
evidence rendering it probable that the story of the complainant.is true
and that it is reasonably safe to act upon it. The evidence, ‘no doubt,
should not only make it safe to believe that the.crime was committed
but must in some way reasonable connect or ‘tend to connect the
accused with the crime. Corroboration may.,be by facts and
circumstances.

26. Here in the present case; the, victim is the only eye witness.
The prosecution has failed_to, adduce any witness who could have
stated that he or she seen ‘the.accused in committing the penetrative
sexual assault to the said minor victim. PW 1- victim, who was only 6
years old on thedate.of deposition, stated that on the day of incident,
she went to.the bank of the river to see goats. On that day, she did
not go to.school. Accused called her to give “Tarmuj” (water melon)
and*took her near Banana trees where accused opened her pant,
made her lie down and did sexual intercourse with her( Mok Putki
Marisile). In cross-examination, she admitted that her father told her
to tell that accused did her (putki marisile). Therefore, she herself
admitted that according to the direction of her father she stated that

accused did sexual intercourse with her (Mok Putki Marisile).

Another point is to be discussed in the present case as raised
by learned counsel for the accused is that according to the victim at
the relevant time she herself, Somu, Hasan and Bantu also went there.
The accused had kept watermelon near Banana trees. Her friends also

have their own goats. Their goats were kept under Banana trees. They

 
Page 16 of 19

also took watermelon from the accused's field. But the prosecution has

failed to examine any of the said witnesses.

Another point is to be discussed in the present case is that
according to the doctor, PW 3 who examined the victim opined after

thorough examination of the victim that —

1. Age of the person under investigation is below 10 years.
2. Bruise present in the perineum area.
The victim was advised to attend the Gyno OPD.

No doubt the perineum area means outside of the vagina. The doctor
also opined that she is unable to opine regarding, the commission of
rape on the victim. There is a suggestion.that the injury caused to

victim may also be caused by falling on hard substance.

On the other hand, victim admitted that when the accused
chased them they ran and fell\down in the drain and she suffered pain
in her leg. PW 4 Sahara “Khatoon also admitted in the cross
examination that when accused chased the victim and her children,
they fell in thesdrain All of them were wearing half pant. Therefore,
the presence of bruise in the perineum area of the victim may also be

sustained. by falling the victim cannot be ruled out.

It has been held in Bhagawan Singh Vs. State of Madhya
Pradesh reported in AIR 2003 SC 1088 that —

"The law recognises the child as a competent witness but a
child particularly at such a tender age of six years, who is unable
to form a proper opinion about the nature of the incident because
of immaturity of understanding, is not considered by the Court to
be a witness whose sole testimony can be relied without other
corroborative evidence. The evidence of child is required to be
evaluated carefully because he is an easy prey to tutoring.
Therefore, always the Court looks for adequate corroboration

from other evidence to his testimony.”

 
Page 17 of 19

Coming to the present case as discussed herein before the
victim herself admitted that as told by her father to tell that accused
did her sexual intercourse (mok putki marisile), so there is every
possibility to make such statement by the victim. Secondly, the
prosecution has failed to produce any of the companion/friends
namely, Somu, Hasan and Bantu who were with the victim and who
were also took watermelon from the accused's field. Non examination
of the said witnesses definitely raised doubt about the»alleged
occurrence. Thirdly, as admitted by PW 5 Afuja Khatoon, thesaunt of
the victim that victim was accompanied by Arijul tothe watermelon
cultivation and there was an altercation took place between the
accused and victim's father regarding felling of\bamboos of victim’s
father where accused had lodged an FIR, as axresult victim’s father
had to took bail from the police station. PW=5 being the own aunt of
the victim supposed to give evidence,in favour of her own niece who
was victim in the case therefore, her evidence is much more important
but she herself stated that there was a quarrel in between the accused
and the father of the victim where accused had lodged an FIR in the
said case, victim’s. father had to take bail from the police station.

Therefore, enmity.between the parties cannot be ruled out.

The.law is well settled that it is trite that enmity is a double
edged weapon as it may provide a motive for the crime and also for

false implication.

Here in this case, there appears an enmity between the
accused and the father of the victim, therefore, concoctedness of the

story cannot be ruled out to implicate the accused as false allegation.

Fourthly, bruise found in the perenium area may be caused by
falling by the victim when accused chased them as admitted by victim
herself. Under such circumstances, the witness in this case cannot be
relied on to convict the accused in the instant case. In a criminal case

prosecution must prove the case beyond any shadow of doubt. Here in

 
Page 18 of 19

this case as discussed above, the statement of the victim does not

inspire confidence to convict the accused on her sole testimony.

The onus of proving the facts essential to the establishment of
the charge against an accused lies upon the prosecution, and the
evidence must be such as to exclude every reasonable doubt about the
guilt of the accused. An accused cannot be convicted of an offence on
the basis of conjectures or suspicion. Here in this case as discussed
here in above a reasonable doubt arisen in my mind, after taking.into
consideration, the entire material before it regarding thescomplicity of

the accused, so benefit of doubt given to the accused.

27. In view of the aforesaid discussion; I am. bound to hold that
the prosecution has categorically failed\to prove,the charge levelled
against the accused beyond any»reasonable doubt. As such, the
accused Safiqul Islam is entitled*to get acquittal and set him at liberty
forthwith.

28. =‘ The liability of the:bailor is hereby discharged.

29. Send back the GR Case record being No.741/15 to the learned
committal courtvalong with a copy of this order.

Given. under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 31*
day of October, 2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR
Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
Prosecution Witness No.1

Prosecution Witness No.2

Prosecution Witness No.3

Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5

Prosecution Witness No.6

Prosecution Witness No.7

Prosecution Witness No.8

Prosecution Witness No.9

Page 19 of 19

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Exhibit. 1
Exhibit 2,
Ext. 3,4,5
Exhibit 6
Exhibit 7
Exhibit 8
Exhibit 9

Victim
Aleka Khatoon
Dr. Tutumoni Handique,M.O.

Sahara Khatoon
Ajufa Khatoon

SI Tankeswar Bhuyan
Smt. Majida,.Khatoon
SI Maruf\A.HwAhmed.

Mrs. Meenakshi Sarmah

EXHIBITS.

Ejahar

Medical report,
Advice slips,
Laboratory report
X-ray report.
Sketch map
Chargesheet.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
