-1-

IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, BAJALI,
PATHSALA

Spl. POCSO Case No. 01 of 2018
U/S - Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

State
- Versus -

Adhay Malakar.
: Accused person.

Present :
Sri L.K. Saikia,
Additional Sessions Judge, Bajali, Pathsala.

Appearance & particulars :-
For the State : Smti. Dhira Devi Ld. Addl. P. P.

For the accused persons ‘Sri Dipak Das, Sri Giridhar Choudhury.
Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidences : 27-04-18, 04-05-18, 18-05-18

12-06-18, 08-10-18, 16-11-18,
& 22-11-18.

Date of recording statements u/s 313 Cr.P.C. : 01-12-2018.

Date of Argument 05-05-2019 & 31-05-2019.

Date of Judgment 14-06-2019.
0.

J UDGMENT

Ls The prosecution case in brief, is that, one Dibakar Bharali
lodged an ejahar on 12-02-2018 with the Officer-In-Charge
Patacharkuchi Police Station alleging, inter-alia, that on 12-02-18 at
about 6 pm while his niece came out to the gate way/ courtyard from
the house with a view to see her father then accused Adhay Malakar by
gaging her mouth took her away at far and committed bad act. After
that while the victim was crying in the bed then her aunt asked the
reason and then she told that her life has ruined by the accused. Later
on, he came to know about the occurrence from the family members.
Hence, this case.

Zs Accordingly the FIR was registered as Patacharkuchi P. S.
Case No. 101/18 u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

Zs During investigation police visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statements of witnesses including the victim girl, sent her
for medical examination and collected medical examination report,
produced before the Court wherein the Ld. Magistrate recorded the
statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C, arrested the accused person
and forwarded him to the court and after completion of investigation,
having been found prima-facie case, the I/O sent up the accused for
trial by filing charge sheet u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

4. On being produced the accused from jail, the copies were
furnished to him. After hearing both the parties, my predecessor-in-
office, framed charge under section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and the
accusation of charge was read over and explained to him, to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Thereafter he was enlarged
on bail and the trial commenced.

5. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined
altogether 10 (ten) PWs including M.O. and 1.0. The defence plea is of
total denial. While the accused person was examined u/s 313 of Cr. P.
C. with regards to the incriminating materials available in the evidence
of the witnesses he repeated his denial. The defence side has not
-3-
adduced any defence evidence.

6. Heard strenuous argument advanced by the learned Addl.
P. P. and the learned defence counsel. Perused the record.

7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person on 12-02-2018 at village Dubi
Malipara under Patacharkuchi P.S. of district Barpeta, while the victim
was standing in front of her gate, then the accused person took her
forcefully by the side of the gate and committed penetrative sexual
assault and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO
Act, 2012?

EVIDENCE OF WITNESSES

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me see what the
witnesses have stated.

9. PW - 1 Sri Dhiraj Bharali stated that informant Sri Dibakar
Bharali is his elder brother, victim is his daughter and at the time of
occurrence she was 15 years old and a student of class X. On
12.02.2018 in the evening he came to purchase medicine at Dubi
Chowk for his wife who had been suffering from illness and after
sometimes his daughter Niva Bharali informed that accused Adhay
Malakar forcefully took away his elder daughter as well as the victim
to the back side of his house near the bushes of bamboos groves by
gagging her mouth and forcefully committed sexual intercourse with
her. After getting the information he immediately came to the house
and saw victim was weeping. On being asked the victim told that
accused Adhay Malakar forcefully raped on her by taking her into the
back side of their house as well as near the bushes of bamboos and in
the mean time, the neighbouring people rushed to his house and
thereafter he brought the victim to the Patacharkuchi PS along with his
-4-

wife, informant Dibakar Bharali and others. His brother Dibakar Bharali
as well as informant lodged the ejahar and police has recorded
statement of him as well as victim and others. On the next day
morning again police brought the victim to FAAMCH, Barpeta for her
medical examination and after completion of the medical examination
she was brought to the Bajali Court and in the Court Magistrate had
recorded her statement and thereafter she was handed over to him.
The police had seized a panty, laggings, frock and semiz (inner).

In cross examination, PW 1 stated that on the day of the
occurrence he got the information over phone about 6.30 pm while he
was at Dubi Chowk which is about 1% km away from his house. There
is a furniture shop belongs to the accused in-front of his house as well
as across the road and there are about 30 houses of other neighbours
around the house of him and the accused. At the time of occurrence,
the furniture shop was closed. There is no street light in their village
and on the day of occurrence in the evening while he rushed to his
house then he saw a gathering of about 50 persons in his house and he
found the victim was of semi-conscious position and he saw his sister-
in-law was pouring water on her head. The police came to their house
on the next day of the occurrence. Police had seized the cloths
belonging to the victim after 7 days of the occurrence. He did not know
any Pranjit Malakar @Moni. He denied the suggestion that he know
Pranjit Malakar who had love affair with the victim. He also denied the
suggestion that there is a cow shed in the back side of his house and
there is no any house adjacent to the bamboo groves as well as the
place of occurrence and it is about 150 feet away from the house of the
accused to the place of occurrence. He also denied that no cloths of
the victim had been seized.

10. PW - 2 Dibakar Bharali stated that on 12/02/2018 in the
evening about 6 pm while he was in the back side of his house
suddenly he heard hue and cry in his courtyard then he immediately
came to his courtyard and saw elder aunt of the victim as well as his
sister-in-law Kabita Bharali was raising hue and cry and then on being
asked his sister-in-law, Kabita Bharali told him that on that day in the
-5-

evening accused Adhay Malakar forcefully took away the victim by
gagging her mouth in the back side of his furniture shop near the
bushes of bamboo wherein he raped on her. On being heard about the
occurrence he along with the victim and her parents and the co-
villagers went to Patacharkuchi PS. and informed the matter and
lodged the ejahar with the police.

In his cross examination PW 2 stated that the father of the
victim is a businessman and on the day of the occurrence he was out of
his house in relating to his business purpose. The main road in front of
house is visible from their house and it is audible if there is any hue
and cry on the main road. They have been giving good teaching to the
victim since her childhood as such she understood what the good or
what is bad and she was born and brought up at their guidance. He
have forgotten the date of marriage of the parents of victim and victim
is the elder daughter of his brother. He had not mentioned in the ejahar
that the police has neither ask the birth certificate of the victim nor
seized the same. He know the contention of the ejahar.

He had not stated in the ejahar while he was in the
backside of his house and was busy bathing then hearing hulla and he
came to the courtyard and saw Kabita Bharali was raising hulla and on
being asked by Kabita Bharali, the victim told to her that she was raped
by accused Adhay Malakar. He had not asked the victim directly about
the alleged occurrence. He also had not stated in ejahar the accused
forcefully brought the victim in the back side of his furniture shop and
raped on her near the bamboo bushes. He stated that that he neither
inquired nor asked to the victim whether there is any physical relation
of her with anybody. PW 2 stated that he did not ask anything to the
victim in relating to the incident.

Led « PW - 3 victim stated that the occurrence took place on
12.02.18 and in that year she was attended HSLC examination. On the
day of occurrence, in the evening at about 6 pm, while she was
standing in-front of their house and waiting for her father who went to
purchase medicine for her mother then accused Abhay Malakar called
her but she did not go near to him so he came to her and clasped her
-6-

by gagging her mouth and forcefully took her away in the backside of
his furniture shop and thereafter took her to the nearer of the bamboo
bushes. After that he pull her cloth forcefully and committed raped on
her. He also threatened her not to make any hue and cry otherwise he
would kill her and after committing rape he left her and then she came
to their home. She had felt uneasy and also fell in the courtyard. She
told the entire facts of the matter to her aunt, mother and other family
members and after sometime her parents, aunt and her elder uncle
brought her to Patacharkuchi police station wherein her elder uncle
lodged a complain. The police had recorded her statement and since it
was night she was kept at Tapbaon, a child welfare centre and on the
next day she was brought to FAAMCH, Barpeta wherein she was
medically examined and also provided treatment and after completion
of the medical examination she was brought to Bajali Court wherein her
statement was recorded by the Magistrate.

In cross-examination PW 3 stated that she understood
what is good or what is bad and she has no boyfriend. Before this
occurrence there was no any instance having any physical relation to
any person. On the next day of the occurrence she was medically
examined at FAAMCH, Barpeta and the doctor had examined her whole
body including her private parts. The doctor had seen injury in her
private part. The cloth which she was wearing at the time of
occurrence the police had seized the same and there was stain of
semen. While the police had seized the cloth the semen stain was in
her cloth. There was no any mark or injury sustained in her face. She
tried to escape from the clutch of the accused and she also used force
against him. There was no any injury in the body part of her whole
body except in the private part. She denied the suggestion that there
was no any injury in her private part at the time of examination and
she is a habituated with sexual intercourse. She also denied the
suggestion that she has adduced false evidence with intent to harass
the accused and there was no any force used by the accused sexually
with her.

12. PW - 4 Smti. Kabita Bharali stated on 12/02/2018 when
-7-

she was siting in their courtyard victim went towards the gate to see
her father and in the meantime, she entered into the house but the
mother of the victim told her to call the victim. At that moment Niva
Bharali (younger sister of victim) also came out from the house and
asked her to go to the gate to see the victim and then Niva and she
came in front of the gate but the victim was found missing in front of
their gate. After sometime they noticed the victim was running towards
their house from the Eastern side and suddenly she fell on the
courtyard and then she asked her what happened to her, then the
victim told them that accused Adhay Malakar forcefully took her away
near the bamboo bushes of his furniture shop and by gagging her
mouth and committed rape on her. On hearing the occurrence they
made hulla and the villagers rushed to their courtyard. At the time of
occurrence the victim was 15 years old and she had to appear HSLC
examination. The police had recorded their statement and since it was
night as such, on the next day victim was brought to FAAMCH, Barpeta

for medical examination.

In her cross examination PW 4 stated that she did not
know the date of birth of victim since she got married after her birth
and they are staying in the same compound as such she know the
conduct of the victim in the day to day life. She knows very well that
victim had no any affair with any person and she did not maintain any
physical relation with any person. They had noticed the blood stained
as well as semen in her panty and the police had seized her panty,
long-pant and frock. The stained as well as semen were visible and
they had not noticed her private parts but she told us that she felt pain
in her private part. The victim was examined by the doctor at FAAMCH,
Barpeta at about 1/1.30 pm. Their 5 (five) families have been staying
nearer to each other and all are their relatives and in the police station
on that very night they and the victim explained the facts to the police
verbally. At the time of occurrence the father of the victim went to
purchase medicine for his wife and informant Dibakar Bharali knew that
at the time of occurrence the father of the victim went to purchase
medicine for his wife and informant Dibakar Bharali had seen the father
of victim while he was going to purchase medicine. They brought the
-8-

victim to the Patacharkuchi PS in the same dress which she was
wearing at the time of occurrence. Though, they told to the police
about the stained in the cloth of the victim but they did not take any
interest to see or noticed the stained. The police had recorded the
statement of the persons present at the police station along with the
victim and on that very day of the occurrence the police brought them
along with the victim SMR Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital, Pathsala. She
did not know the exact time when informant lodged the ejahar. The
police asked them to lodged FIR and she did not know where the FIR
was written. She denied the suggestion that accused did not commit
rape to the victim rather the victim maintains sexual relation with other

person.

13. PW - 5 Smti. Himani Bharali stated that on 12.02.2018 she
had been suffering from fever for which she was lying on bed and her
husband went to purchase medicine for her. Since her husband did not
return she called her daughter (victim) to see her father where he has
come or not, but victim also did not return then she called Kabita
Bharali (sister-in-law) to know where was the victim. Then she heard
Kabita Bharali called the victim by her name but she did not find her
whereabouts. Then she also got up from the bed and came out to the
courtyard and after sometime she noticed the victim running towards
house and she fell on the courtyard and got senseless for sometime.
After sometime she regain her sense and she was brought inside the
house and on being asked what happened to her, she told them that
accused Adhay Malakar forcefully took her away by gagging her mouth
near the bamboo bushes in the back side of the furniture shop of
accused and forcefully raped on her. Then they searched her body
cloth and noticed blood stained and semen in her panty, pant and frock
and she was immediately brought to the Patacharkuchi PS. and they
explained the entire facts of the occurrence to the police. The police on
that very night brought her to SMR Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital,
Pathsala but since it was a rape case the doctor had advised to bring
her FAAMCH, Barpeta and since it was night as such, on the next day
morning the victim was brought to FAAMCH, Barpeta and she was
accompanied by her, Kabita Bharali, her husband Dhiraj Bharali along
-9-

with police person. After completion of medical examination she was
brought to Bajali Court and her statement was recorded before the
Magistrate. Thereafter she was handed over to them and at the time of
occurrence the victim was 15 years old and she has got birth certificate
of the victim.

In her cross examination she stated that they went to
police station at about 6.30 to 7.30 pm with the family and stated the
entire facts of the occurrence to the O/C of Patacharkuchi P.S. and the
police had also recorded her statement. At the time of occurrence she
was lying on the bed since she had been suffering from fever and she
heard Kabita called the victim by her name in high sound, the
neighbouring people may also heard of shouting of Kabita Bharali while
victim was called and that moment nobody came to their house. She
had not seen while the victim fell on the courtyard and the victim was
lying in the courtyard for half an hour. She got married about 20 years
back and she knew that several villagers rushed to their courtyard but
she could not say their names and the villagers knew about the
occurrence who were not their relatives. Informant knows that Dhiraj
Bharali is his brother as well as the father of victim who went to
purchase medicine for his wife. Since her husband stays outside the
house the entire possibility falls upon her to see and maintain upon her
daughters and she advice to her daughters what is good or what is bad
and what to do in the society however, she is giving advice of morality
so that they can make their life beautiful. She also advice her while her
daughters was out of the resident to maintain her morality among the
public and accordingly she complies her advises and she also
discussed if any problem she faces. She had noticed slight injury in
private parts of victim. The stained in the cloth were visible and the
injury in the private parts was also visible. She denied the suggestion
that accused did not commit rape to the victim rather the victim
maintained sexual relation with other persons. At SMR Sub-Divisional
Civil Hospital, Pathsala the doctor advice them as well as to the police
station to bring the victim to Barpeta since that was an allegation of
rape. She did not know whether the doctor of SMR Sub-Divisional Civil
Hospital, Pathsala had recorded the statement of the victim or not. She
-10-

also denied the suggestion that she did not state before the police that
while the victim running towards their house she fell on the courtyard
and got senseless but after sometime she regain her sense. The road in
front of their house used by the pedestrian, cyclist as well as drives
vehicles. She denied the suggestion that she did not state before the
police that at the time of occurrence victim was 15 years old and the
victim was born 22/09/2002.

14. PW - 6 Sri Aban Malakar stated that on 12.02.2018 in the
evening while he rushed to his house from his working place and heard
hue and cry in the house of Dhiraj Bharali and hearing hue and cry he
rushed to the house of Dhiraj Bharali and came to know that accused
Adhay Malakar committed rape on the victim girl as well as daughter of
Dhiraj Bharali.

In his cross examination he stated that he did not state
before the police that on that day in the evening while he rushed to his
house from his working place he heard hulla in the house of Dhiraj
Bharali and hearing hulla he rushed to the house of Dhiraj Bharali and
then came to know accused Adhay Malakar committed rape on the
victim girl as well as daughter of Dhiraj Bharali.

He also stated that there was no light at the time of the
occurrence even no street light in their village. He only heard
commotion but he did not see the victim girl. He had forgotten whether
he had stated before the police or not that on the day of occurrence he
had seen the victim was running toward his house. As he knows rape
means illegal act and he did not ask anything to the mother of victim in
relating to the allegation, even he did not discuss anything with the
family of the victim.

15. PW - 7 Sri Brajen Bharali stated that on 12.02.2018 at
about 7 pm while he rushed to his house from his working place then
he saw a gathering in their courtyard and he came to know that
accused Adhay Malakar committed rape his niece as well as victim girl
by bringing her nearer to the bamboo bush. In the meantime his
brother and the victim went to the Patacharkuchi P.S. The police had
-11-

seized on frock, one leggings, one semiz and one panty of the victim in
presence of him.

In cross examination, PW 7 stated that he do not know
how to read and write English as such he cannot translate the contents
of the Ext. 1. The police did not read over to him the contents of the
seizure list. On the day of occurrence he was working at Pathsala
Kalighat, while he saw the gathering in their courtyard amongst them
he did not see the victim, her father and mother. At the gathering he
had seen most of the women. The police did not ask him anything
except the seized articles in relating to the occurrence and the police
had seized the articles after 3 (three) days of the occurrence. He
denied the suggestion that on the next day of occurrence the police
had seized the articles of the victim and on the day of occurrence there
was no any gathering in their courtyard in relating to the allegation.

16. PW - 8 Dr. Anima Boro deposed that on 13-02-2018 she
was discharging as Lady Medical Officer at Fakharuddin Ali Ahmed
Medical College & Hospital, Barpeta and on that she examined victim
girl in connection with Patacharkuchi PS Case No. 101/2018 u/s 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012. The victim was escorted by 649 Tulika Roy.

On genital examination she found hymen was tear and vaginal walls is
red in colour. Cervix and uterus: Uterus not palpable per abdominally.
Forchetee and Perineum: Normal. Vaginal Swab collected from
posterior fornix. Result of vaginal swab smear examination: No
Spermatozoa is seen on microcosmic examination of vaginal swab
Slides.

Opinion: On the basis of physical (including dental) examination,
laboratory and radiological investigation done on the victim she opined
that-

1. There is no recent sign of sexual intercourse, but victim is
accustomed to sexual intercourse.

2. There is no recent sign detected of penis’ into
vagina/mouth/urethra/anus.

3. There is no recent sign detected of insertion of any object or
-12-

any part of body into vagina/mouth/urethra/anus.

4. There is no recent sign detected of body of the victim so as to
cause penetration into vagina, urethra, anus or any part of the
body of the victim.

5. There is no sign detected of application of mouth of vagina,
anus urethra of the victim.

6. There is no injury on the body of the victim.

7. Victim is not suffering any physical/mental disability.

8. There is no foreign particle found on her cloth/body.

9. According to X-ray report the victim is above 16 years and
below 18 years old.

She proved her medical examination report as Ext. 4 and 4 (I) is
her signature.

In cross-examination, PW 8 stated that as per history of
the alleged victim that the occurrence took place on 12-02-2018 at
around 6 pm. She stated that if any woman has been examined
immediately just after the occurrence then there would be sign of
rape. She further stated that if any woman has been examined within
24 hours of the allegation of rape then it probably come out the sign of
rape. PW 8 stated that the victim whom she examined was an
unmarried woman. She further stated that she was accustomed with
sexual intercourse. She also stated that there was no such material of

any violence of having sex.

17. PW - 9 Shri Nripendra Sarma_ stated that on 12-02-18 he
was discharging as S.I. Of police at Pathsala Police Out Post. On that
day he received a telephonic information from one Dhiraj Bharali that a
girl was raped by accused Adhay Malakar at village Dubi and the he
entered the information as Pathsala OP GDE No. 298 dated 12-02-
2018. He proceeded to the place of occurrence but he could not find
the victim there and came to know from the people that the victim had
already gone to Patacharkuchi PS and then he also rushed there. In the
Patacharkuchi P.S. The informant lodged an FIR which was registered
as Patacharkuchi PS case No. 101/18 u/s 4 of POCSO Act and he was
-13-

entrusted to complete the investigation. During investigation he
visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of available
witnesses, prepared sketch map (Ext. 5), seized the cloth of the victim
vide seizure list Ext. 1 and accused was apprehended and forwarded to
the Court.

In cross-examination, PW 9 stated that the seizure list was
not shown to the Ld. Magistrate but it ought to have been done. He has
failed to comply to show the seizure list to the Ld. Magistrate. He
stated that while they visited the place of occurrence when they were
in the uniform. He had not gone thoroughly the POCSO Act. While the
informant and victim were in the Patacharkuchi PS then all the police
personnel were in uniform. He stated that he in the sketch map it was
not mentioned or it was not shown any indicatin that the occurrence
took place in the back side of the house of the informant. He also
stated that he did not make any prayer to send the seized article to the
Forensic Science Laboratory for examination. The victim was medically
examined within 24 hours of the occurrence. He stated that he did not
seize any long pant from the victim. During investigation he did not
collect any school certificate of the victim. He stated that the accused
was not produced before the doctor to ascertain his sexual potentiality.
There was no any note in the case diary how the victim identified the
accused.

18. PW -10 Sri Partha Pratim Biswash stated that on 01-03-
2018 he was entrusted to investigate the Patacharkuchi PS case No.
101/18 u/s 4 of POCSO Act. He stated that on perusal of the case diary
he found that the investigation has almost completed and the medical
report of the victim was lying to be collected and accordingly he
collected the medical report of the victim. After completion of the
investigation, finding the incident being true submitted the charge
sheet against the accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

In cross-examination,he stated that he had only collected
the medical report of the victim.
-14-

DISCUSSIONS, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

 

19. Learned counsel for the accused person during the
argument contended that the allegation levelled against the accused
person is concocted, totally false, fabricated and baseless. The |/O
during the investigation has not complied with the mandatory
provision of Section 24 of the POCSO Act, 2012. The I.0 has also not
complied with the section of 102 Cr.P.C. while seizing the cloths of the
victim. It is also argued that the seized article has not examined
through the FSL to prove the stain of the cloths. Moreover, the seizure
list had not shown to the nearest Ld. Magistrate after the seizure. It is
also contended that the FIR is silent about the place of occurrence. The
Sketch map shows that the place of occurrence is the back side of the
furniture house but sketch map has not corroborated with the evidence
of informant. In-spite of that M.O. PW8 specifically stated that during
examination she found the victim accustomed to sexual intercourse
and age of the victim has also not been proved as per requirement of
law. During investigation I/O kept the victim in Tapobaon, a child
welfare home but no any explanation has been given properly. In-spite
of that Section 45 of the Evidence Act has also not been complied with.
In support of their case they have cited case law of Hon'ble Supreme
Court reported in (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 677 (Omission of fact in FIR-
effect of-affecting probability of case is a relevant factor u/s 11 of
Evidence Act), also a case law of Hon'ble Gauhati High Court reported
in 1999 (1) GLT 54 (Medical evidence -absence of spermatozoa on
vaginal smear-........ ) and hence, prays for acquittal.

20. But we are not fully agreed with the contention of the Ld
counsel of the accused side.

21. Section 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012 consent is an immaterial Spl. POCSO Case consideration as
consent is not an ingredient of offence as defined in Section 3 of the
Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. For the sake of
convenience, Section 3 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012 is quoted herein below:-
-15-

“3. Penetrative sexual assault. - A person is said to commit

“penetrative sexual assault” if -

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into
the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part
of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina,
the urethra or anus of the child or makes the
child to do so with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the
child so as to cause penetration into the vagina,
urethra, anus or any part of body of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina,
anus, urethra of the child or makes the child to
do so to such person or any other person.

22. From above, it appears that mere penetration is enough
to constitute of an offence of penetrative sexual assault against a child

and consent is immaterial for commission of the said offence.

Punishment for penetrative sexual assault.-

Whoever commits penetrative sexual
assault Shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a
term which shall not be less than seven
years but which may~ extend to
imprisonment for life, and shall also be
liable to fine.

23. PW 3 in her evidence specifically stated that On the day
of occurrence, in the evening at about 6 pm, while she was standing
-16-

in-front of their house and waiting for her father who went to purchase
medicine for her mother then accused Abhay Malakar called her but
she did not go near to him so he came to her and clasped her by
gagging her mouth and forcefully took her away in the backside of his
furniture shop and thereafter took her to the nearer of the bamboo
bushes. After that he pull her cloth forcefully and committed raped on
her. He also threatened her not to make any hue and cry otherwise he
would kill her and after committing rape he left her and then she came
to their home. She had felt uneasy and also fell in the courtyard.
During cross-examination, the defence side neither denied the fact as
stated by the PW 3 victim nor put any suggestion on the material point
for which the evidence of PW 3 that accused by gagging her mouth
forcefully took her away in the backside of his furniture shop and
thereafter took her to the nearer of the bamboo bushes and he pull her
cloth forcefully and committed raped on her for which this portion of
evidence of PW3 remained unchallenged. During the cross-
examination to PW 3 the defence side suggested that she was a
habituated with sexual intercourse. But to prove the fact the defence
side lead no any evidence.

24. The evidence of PW 1, PW 2, PW 4 and PW 5 are hearsay.
They have not seen the occurrence. Yet as per section 6 of the
Evidence Act their evidence that on the day of occurrence accused
Adhay Malakar forcefully took away the victim to the back side of his
house near the bushes of bamboos groves by gagging her mouth and
forcefully committed sexual intercourse with her, cannot be thrown

out.

25. In the case of State of Punjab Vs. Gurmit Singh &
Ors. AIR 1996 SC 1393, this Court held that in cases involving
sexual harassment, molestation etc. the court is duty bound to deal
with such cases with utmost sensitivity. Minor contradictions or
insignificant discrepancies in the statement of a prosecutrix should not
be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable prosecution case.
Evidence of the victim of sexual assault is enough for conviction and it
does not require any corroboration unless there are compelling
-17-

reasons for seeking corroboration. The court may look for some
assurances of her statement to satisfy judicial conscience. The
statement of the prosecutrix is more reliable than that of an injured
witness as she is not an accomplice. The Court further held that the
delay in filing FIR for sexual offence may not be even properly
explained, but if found natural, the accused cannot be given any
benefit thereof. The Court observed as under :- "The court overlooked
the situation in which a poor helpless minor girl had found herself in
the company of three desperate young men who were threatening her
and preventing her from raising any alarm. Again, if the investigating
officer did not conduct the investigation properly or was negligent in
not being able to trace out the driver or the car, how can that become
a ground to discredit the testimony of the prosecutrix ? The
prosecutrix had no control over the investigating agency and the
negligence of an investigating officer could not affect the credibility of
the statement of the prosecutrix.......:0008 The courts must, while
evaluating evidence remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no
self- respecting woman would come forward in a court just to make a
humiliating statement against her honour such as is involved in the
commission of rape on her. In cases involving sexual molestation,
supposed considerations which have no material effect on the veracity
of the prosecution case or even discrepancies in the statement of the
prosecutrix should not, unless the discrepancies are such which are of
fatal nature, be allowed to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution
CASEY sasesua is uns Seeking corroboration of her statement before replying
upon the same as a rule, in such cases, amounts to adding insult to
INJULY. ce seeeeeees Corroboration as a condition for judicial reliance on the
testimony of the prosecutrix is not a requirement of law but a

guidance of prudence under given circumstances.

26. In the case Vijay @ Chinee -vs- State of Madhya
Pradesh of the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that "A prosecutrix of a
sex-offence cannot be put on par with an accomplice. She is in fact a
victim of the crime. The Evidence Act nowhere says that her evidence
cannot be accepted unless it is corroborated in material particulars.
She is undoubtedly a competent witness under Section 118 and her
-18-

evidence must receive the same weight as is attached to an injured in
cases of physical violence. The same degree of care and caution must
attach in the evaluation of her evidence as in the case of an injured
complainant or witness and no more. What is necessary is that the
Court must be alive to and conscious of the fact that it is dealing with
the evidence of a person who is interested in the outcome of the
charge levelled by her. If the court keeps this in mind and feels
satisfied that it can act on the evidence of the prosecutrix, there is no
rule of law or practice incorporated in the Evidence Act similar to
illustration (b) to Section 114 which requires it to look for
corroboration. If for some reason the court is hesitant to place implicit
reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix it may look for evidence
which may lend assurance to her testimony short of corroboration
required in the case of an accomplice. The nature of evidence required
to lend assurance to the testimony of the prosecutrix must necessarily
depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. But if a
prosecutrix is an adult and of full understanding the court is entitled to
base a conviction on her evidence unless the same is shown to be
infirm and not trustworthy. If the totality of the circumstances
appearing on the record of the case disclose that the prosecutrix does
not have a strong motive to falsely involve the person charged, the
court should ordinarily have no hesitation in accepting her evidence."

27. Ld. Counsel for the accused has strenuously argued that
the medical examination of the victim was conducted within 24 hours
of the alleged occurrence but the doctor did not find any sign of recent
sexual intercourse or injury on her private part or the body rather the
medical officer opined that the victim was accustomed to sexual
intercourse and as such, the accused is no any way involved in the
alleged occurrence. As such, the medical evidence of the doctor has
not corroborated the offence of rape that alleged to have been
committed by the accused.

28. Now let us see whether the evidence of victim needs to
be corroborated by the evidence of medical officer in the eye of law.

29. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ranjit
-19-

Hazarika vs State of Assam (1998)8 SCC 635 held that “the
opinion of the doctor that no rape appeared to have been committed
was based only on the absence of rupture of the hymen and injuries on
the private parts of the prosecutrix. This opinion cannot throw out an
otherwise cogent and trustworthy evidence of the prosecutrix. Besides,
the opinion of the doctor appears to be based on "no
PR | wencsisemvoees zs emnees ssen "The courts must, while evaluating
evidence, remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self-
respecting woman would come forward in a court just to make a
humiliating statement against her honour such as is involved in the
commission of rape on her. In cases involving sexual molestation,
supposed considerations which have no material effect on the veracity
of the prosecution case or even discrepancies in the statement of the
prosecutrix should not, unless the discrepancies are such which are of
fatal nature, be allowed to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution
case. Why should the evidence of a girl or a woman who complains of
rape or sexual molestation be viewed with doubt, disbelief or
suspicion? The court while appreciating the evidence of a prosecutrix
may look for some assurance of her statement to satisfy its judicial
conscience, since she is a witness who is interested in the outcome of
the charge leveled by her, but there is no requirement of law to insist
upon corroboration of her statement to base conviction of an accused.
The evidence of a victim of sexual assault stands almost on a par with
the evidence of an injured witness and to an extent is even more
reliable. Just as a witness who has sustained some injury in the
occurrence, which is not found to be self-inflicted, is considered to be a
good witness in the sense that he is least likely to shield the real
culprit, the evidence of a victim of a sexual offence is entitled to great
weight, absence of corroboration notwithstanding. Corroborative
evidence is not an imperative component of judicial credence
in every case of rape. Corroboration as a condition for judicial
reliance on the testimony of the _ prosecutrix is not a
requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under given
circumstances. It must not be overlooked that a woman or a

girl subjected to sexual assault is not an accomplice to the
-20-

crime but is a victim of another person's lust and it is
improper and undesirable to test her evidence with a certain
amount of suspicion, treating her as if she were an
accomplice. |nferences have to be drawn from a given set of facts
and circumstances with realistic diversity and not dead uniformity lest
that type of rigidity in the shape of rule of law is introduced through a
new form of testimonial tyranny making justice a casualty. Courts
cannot cling to a fossil formula and insist upon corroboration even if,
taken as a whole, the case spoken of by the victim of sex crime strikes
the judicial mind as probable."

30. In the case in hand it is found that though the medical
officer did not find any sing of recent sexual intercourse while she
examined the victim but on genital examination, PW 8 medical officer
found hymen was tear and vaginal walls is red in colour which means it
is that without committing any rape there may not be any question of
vaginal wall is red in colour. If victim was accustomed to sexual
intercourse there should be old rupture of hymen. From the above
discussions and findings of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, it can safely
held that there is no need for corroboration of medical evidence, if the
evidence of prosecutrix found to be reliable. So, in the instant case the
Court is of the considered opinion that there is no need for
corroboration of the medical evidence of the victim. As such, the
judgment of the Hon'ble Gauahti High Court that reported in 1999 (1)
GLT 54 cited by Ld counsel for the accused person is not wholly
applicable in our case.

31. It is pertinent to mentioned that though the Medical
Officer opined that the victim is accustomed to sexual intercourse but
during the cross-examination of the victim she has stated that before
this occurrence there was no any instance having any physical relation
to any other person. But under Section 114-A of the Indian Evidence
Act, 1872, which was inserted by way of amendment in the year 1988,
there is a clear and specific provision that where sexual intercourse by
the accused is proved and the question is whether it was without the
consent of the woman alleged to have been raped, and she states in
-21-

her evidence before the court that she did not consent, the court shall
presume that she did not consent. In our case, the victim also stated
that the accused forcefully raped on her.

32. Section 29 of the POCSO Act, where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence under Sections 3, 5, 7 and 9 of the Act, the Special Court shall

 

presume that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to
commit the offence, as the case may be, unless the contrary is proved.

33. So as per section 29 of the act the evidence of PW 3 can
be presumed that the accused person had committed the offence

unless contrary is proved.

34. PW 3 the victim has categorically stated that on the day of
occurrence while she came out from the house to the gate
way/courtyard the accused person by gaging her mouth forcefully
taken to backside of his shop-house and nearer to bamboo buses and
committed rape on her. During cross-examination, the defence side has
failed to demolish the credibility of the evidence of victim PW 3.

35. The Learned counsel for the accused has argued on the
point that the investigating officer has not complied with the provision
of the section 24 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and also the provision of
Section 102 Cr.P.C. while conducting investigation. It is also argued that
while the victim was examined the police personnel were in uniform.
The seized material i.e. wearing apparels of the victim which she was
wearing at the time of incident had not sent for FSL examination to

prove the stain of cloths.

36. Per contra the Ld. Addl. PP submits that defective
investigation is not a reason for disbelieving that fact and circumstance
of the case also the evidence of the victim in the circumstances of rape
case corroboration of the fact is not so much necessary if the evidence
of victim is found reliable and trustworthy. There may be some lacuna
on the part of the investigating officer but which means it is not that
the fact is not true.
99-

aT. At this juncture, this Court has follow the case of C.
Muniappan and Others vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (2010) 9 SCC
567, explained the law on this point in the following manner: "There
may be highly defective investigation in a case. However, it is to be
examined as to whether there is any lapse by the IO and whether due
to such lapse any benefit should be given to the accused.

38. The law on this issue is well settled that the defect
in the investigation by itself cannot be a ground for acquittal. If
primacy is given to such designed or negligent investigations or to the
omissions or lapses by perfunctory investigation, the faith and
confidence of the people in the criminal justice administration would be
eroded.

39. The presumption under Section 29 of the POCSO Act was
not rebutted either by bringing out any favourable reply from the
evidence of the prosecution witnesses or producing documentary
evidence on the side of the defence. On the other hand, in this case,
the evidence of P.W.3, who was minor and aged about 15/16 years at
the time of occurrence, is crystal clear without giving any room of

doubt to test the veracity of the crime committed by the accused.

40. The offence u/s 4 of the Protection of Child From Sexual
Offences (POCSO) Act deals with punishment for penetrative sexual
assault. The offence of penetrative sexual assault under POCSO Act
and for that mater other offences also under this Act can be committed
only on a child. The definition of child u/s 2(d) of the POCSO Act is as
follows:

“Child” means any person below age of 18 years.

Thus, a person can be convicted for an offence under
POCSO Act only if the victim is below the age of 18 years.

41. In the instant case the victim stated that her age is about
15 years and as per the medical examination report, the doctor opined
her age is above 16 and below 18 years. As such, there is no question
arises whether the victim was a minor at the time of incident but
23.

accept only that she was a minor girl at the time of occurrence.

42. In the case of Pancchi - Vs - State of U.P, AIR 1998
SC 2726, it was held that it is not the law that if a witness is a child,
his evidence shall be rejected, even if it is found reliable. The law is
that evidence of a child witness must be evaluated more carefully and
with greater circumspection because a child is susceptible to be
swayed by what others tell them and this a child witness is easy prey
to tutoring.

43. The ratio of above cases is that the testimony of child
witnesses is attributed the same kind of credibility that it attached to
the statement of any other witness if the testimony is consistent. In the
present case, the victim has been consistent on the material
particulars with regard to the incident when the accused committed
penetrative sexual assault upon her. Apart from that, there is no
meaningful cross-examination to the witnesses regarding the incident,

except denial.

44. In the case of POCSO Act, two provisions are there
regarding presumption i.e. 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

45. In the case in hand, the accused has been prosecuted for
committing penetrative sexual assault, as defined in Section 3 of the
Act. Thus, in terms of Section 29 of the Act, this Court is bound to draw
a presumption in favour of the victim that the accused had committed
the offence, unless contrary is proved by the accused. In other words,
the onus is upon the accused to establish that he had not committed
penetrative sexual assault towards the victim. Admittedly, in the
instant case, the accused has not rebutted the said presumption in any
manner just putting the argument. Thus, this Court has no reason to

draw the presumption in favour of the victim.

46. Similarly, u/s.30 of POCSO Act, Special Court has to draw
presumption in favour of the prosecution where culpable mental state
is required on the part of the accused. Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state - (1) In
any prosecution for any offence under this Act
-24-

which requires a culpable mental state on the part
of the accused, the Special Court shall presume the
existence of such mental state but it shall be a
defence for the accused to prove the fact that he
had no such mental state with respect to the act
charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to
be proved only when the Special Court believes it
to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely
when its existence is established by a
preponderance of prosecution.”

47. Bare perusal of Section 30 of the Act reveals that
whenever a question of culpable mental state on the part of the
accused is required to prove the guilt of the accused, Court shall
presume the existence of said mental state. Though accused can take
the defence to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with
respect to his act but accused has to prove the said fact beyond
reasonable doubt and not by showing its existence by establishing
preponderance of probability. Thus, u/s.30 of the Act, liberty is given to
the accused to take a defence that he had no such mental state of his
act but he has to prove the said fact beyond reasonable doubt.

48. But in the instant case, the accused has neither taken any
such defence nor adduced any defene witnesses. Thus, this Court is
bound to draw a presumption that the accused had culpable mental
state of his act.

49. Culpable mental state“ is defined in the explanation to
Section 30 of the Act which includes intention, motive, knowledge of a
fact and the belief in, or reason to believe, a fact. To bring home the
guilt of the accused u/s.30 of the Act, prosecution has to establish
sexual intention on the part of the accused but in terms of Section 30
of the Act, Special Court is bound to draw a presumption in favour of
the prosecution that accused had such intention unless presumption is
rebutted by the accused beyond reasonable doubt.
-25-

50. The accused person while examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. took a
plea that there was previous enmity between both the families in
relating to land dispute and for that reason this case has been brought
against him to harass by making this false and concocted story. But on
perusal of the case record it appears that there was no suggestion on
this point while cross-examined the Pws. Moreover, the accused side
lead no evidence to prove this fact as alleged.

5. Even believing the sole testimony of the victim Court can
record the conviction. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Virendra - Vs -
State of U.P, (2008) 16 SCC 582. The same are reproduced as
under: “The Evidence Act, 1872 does not prescribe any particular age
as a determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On
the contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that:

118. Who may testify - All persons shall be
competent to testify unless the Court consider that
they are prevented from understanding’ the
questions put to them, or from giving rational
answers to those questions, by tender years,
extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind,
or any other cause of the same kind.”

52. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she
has intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational
answers thereto. The evidence of a child witness is not required to be
rejected per-se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such
evidence with close scrutiny and only on being convinced about the
quality thereof and reliability can record conviction, based thereon.

53. In the case of Ratansinh Dalsukhbahai Nayak - Vs -
State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on
the question whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence
primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his manners, his
apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and the said Judge may
resort to any examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and
-26-

intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an oath. In
the instant case there is no other element in the evidence of victim
except believing her fact as stated by her as true.

54. In another case Dattu Ramrao Sakhare - Vs - State of
Maharashtra, (1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held as follows: “A child
witness if found competent to depose to the facts and reliable one such
evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other words, even in the
absence of oath the evidence of a child witness can be considered u/s.
118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to
understand the questions and able to give rational answers thereof.
The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof would depend
upon the circumstances of each case. The only precaution which the
Court should bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child
witness is that the witness must be a reliable one and _ his/her
demeanour must be like any other competent witness and there is no
likelinood of being tutored.”

55. In the present case, the deposition of the victim stands
well corroborated with the statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C by the Ld.
Magistrate. Though the witnesses were cross-examined in full length,
but nothing has come on record, which could suggest that the
prosecution case is false in any aspect or that the prosecution
witnesses are not deposing the truth. PW 3 in her evidence also the
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Stated that the accused person forcefully
took away her in the backside of the furniture shop and committed
rape on her nearer of bamboo bushes. Not mentioning the place of
occurrence in the FIR means it is not that there was no any incident as
stated by PW 2. Hence, the judgment cited by the Learned counsel for
the accused reported in (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 677 to that effect is not
applicable in this case. | find the deposition of the victim and and other
witnesses to be cogent, convincing and reliable. Irrespective of any
support from Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act, 2012 the prosecution
case in fact stands well proved from the deposition of the victim.
-27-

56. In the considered view of this Court, the prosecution has
clearly established in proving beyond shadow of all reasonable doubt
that accused Adhay Malakar had committed penetrative sexual assault
on the victim. The act of the accused thus falls u/s 4 of POCSO Act.
Accordingly, the accused is found guilty and therefore, he is convicted
there under.

HEARING ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE

57. The accused is heard on the point of sentence. He has
submitted before the Court that he is a married person having 2(two)
children and wife and old aged parents and his father is about 90 years
and mother is about 80 years. He is earning his livelihood from a
furniture shop situated near to his house and he is the only sole
earning member of his family. If he is sent to jail they will ace great
hardship and hence prayed for leniency.

58. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law
that while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the
Court should strike a balance between the aggravating circumstances
and the mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances
relate to the crime and the mitigating circumstances relate to the
criminal. In this case, so far as the aggravating circumstances are
concerned, a minor girl was sexually exploited. The wound caused to
the girl is not only to the body, but also to the mind of not only the
victim, but that of the entire family members. The stigma, which she is
going to carry for ever is not erasable. Thus, the aggravating

circumstances are so grave in nature.

59. Turning to the mitigating circumstances, the accused was
not involved in any other crime, prior to the incident. The statute under
Section 4 of POCSO Act prescribes a minimum punishment for a term of
7 (seven) years with fine. When the intention of legislature is to impose
stringent punishment for not less than seven years, this Court has got

no option except to impose minimum punishment for 7 (Seven) years.
-28-

oO R D E R

60. | convict the accused Adhay Malakar u/s.4 of POCSO Act
and sentence him to R.I. for 7 (Seven) years and also to pay a fine of
Rs. 5,000/- (Rupees Five Thousand only), in default, R.I. For 6 (six)
months. The period of detention during investigation and trial be set off

from the period of imprisonment imposed on him.

61. Now, coming to the aspect of compensation to the victim,
who is a minor child, the Hon“ble Apex Court has time and again
observed that subordinate Courts trying the offences of sexual assault
have the jurisdiction to award the compensation to the victim being an
offence against the basic human right and violative of Article 21 of the
Constitution of India. In a case titled as Bodhisattwa Gautam - Vs -
Subhra Chakraborty, AIR 1996 SC 922, it has been held by the
Hon“ble Supreme Court that the jurisdiction to pay compensation
(interim and final) has to be treated as a part of the over all jurisdiction
of the Courts trying the offences of rape, which is an offence against
basic human rights as also the Fundamental Rights of Personal Liberty
and Life. Even otherwise, the concept of welfare and well being of
children is basic for any civilized society and this has a direct bearing
on the state of health and well being of the entire community, its
growth and development. It has been time and again emphasized in
various legislations, international declarations as well as the judicial
pronouncements that the children are a supremely important national
asset and the future well being of the nation depends on how its
children grow and develop, which has been observed in the case of
Laxmi Kant Pandey - Vs - Union of India, (1984) 2 SCC 244.
Therefore, in order to provide restorative and compensatory justice to
the victim, | hereby direct the Secretary, DLSA, Barpeta to grant
compensation to the tune of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand) to
the victim. The amount shall be used for the welfare and rehabilitation
of the victim under the supervision of District Social Welfare Officer,
Barpeta.

62. A copy of the order be sent to the Secretary, DLSA,
-29-
Barpeta for necessary action.

63. A copy of this judgment be given to the accused free of
cost and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Barpeta.

64. The accused/convict has been informed about his right to
appeal against this judgment before the Hon’ble Gauhati High Court.

65. The seized article be disposed of after appellate period. A
copy of this order be given to PSI, Bajali.

66. The Spl. POCSO Case is disposed of accordingly.

67. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court
in presence of both the parties and | put my hand and seal of this Court
on this 14th day of June, 2019.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
Dictated & Corrected
by me

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Dictation taken and
transcribed by me.
(Alakesh Das, Steno)
-30-

APPENDIX :-

Oral evidences :-

PW-1 Sri Dhiraj Bharali
PW-2 Sri Dibakar Bharali
PW-3 Victim

PW-4 Smti Kabita Bharali.
PW-5 Smti Himani Bharali
PW-6 Sri Aban Malakar
PW-7 Brajen Bharali
PW-8 Dr. Anima Boro.
PW-9 Nipendra Sarma
PW-10 Partha Pratim Biswash

Documentary evidence :-

Ext. 1 - Seizure List

Ext.-2- Ejahar

Ext. 3- Statement of victim.
Ext. 4- Medical Report

Ext. 5- Sketch Map

Ext. 6 Charge-sheet.

Material Evidence
M. Ext.- 1 Frock

M. Ext. 2 Legign.
M. Ext.- 3 Semis

M. Ext.- 4 Panty

Defence evidence.
NIL

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
