IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::::::: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.34/2018

State of Assam
Versus

Ekabbar Ali Sk @ Hazrat Ali ..... Accused

Present: Smti Mitali Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State ยง:MrM.K.Ghose, Special P.P.

Ld. advocate for the accused : MrA.S. Talukdar

Evidence recorded on : 04.02.2019 and 16.3.2019
Argument heardon =: 16.3.2019
Judgment delivered on: 16.3.2019

JUDGEMENT

1. The prosecution story in brief is that on 16.7.2018 the informant
Md Maharuddin Khan lodged the first information report to the effect that on
11.7.2018 at about 7.30 P.M. the accused Md Ekabbar Ali caused sexual
harassment to the minor daughter of the informant and outraged her modesty
taking her at the back side of the house of the accused. Hence, the first

information report.
Special Case No.34/18

2

2. On receipt of the first information report in Gossaigaon Police
Station a case has been registered under Gossaigaon P.S. case No.275/2018
under sections 354(A)/506 of IPC, R.W. section 8 of POCSO Act and the case
was endorsed to the S.I. R.L. Das for investigation. During investigation the
I.O. visited to the place of occurrence and recorded the statement of the
witnesses including the victim and after ascertaining the minor age of the
victim, the charge sheet has been filed by the I.O. under sections 354 (A)/506
of IPC, read with section 8 POCSO Act against the accused Ekabbar Ali Sk.
Relevant copies accordingly furnished to the accused by this court and the
charge under section 4 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused finding
a prima-facie case. The charge was read over and explained to the accused to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Accused also granted bail
after a considerable period in jail hazot.

3. The prosecution side examined as many as 03 (three) number of

witnesses including the informant and the victim as follows:-

PW 1 Md Maharuddin Khan (Informant),
PW 2 Musstt Munni Khatoon (Victim),
PW 3 Mosstt Nehula Bibi.

4. The accused person did not examine any witness in support of
his case and took the plea of total denial while recording his statement under
section 313 of Cr.P.C.
5. Point for determination:

Whether the accused committed the offence of penetrative sexual

assault to the minor victim ?
Special Case No.34/18

3

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

 

6. To arrive at a just decision I have thoroughly perused the
evidences of prosecution witnesses, assessed them and heard argument put
forwarded of both sides and the case is decided as follows:-

Pn PW1, Informant of this case deposed that at the time of incident
he was in Arunachal Pradesh. After receipt of telephone call from his house,
when he came to his house heard that on the day of incident accused Ekabbar
was watching T.V. along with his daughter Munni and when current had gone
accused asked his daughter to bring betel nut and when his daughter returned
back accused took her on his lap on which there was hulla.

8. PW2, mother of the victim of this case deposed that when she
was preparing food she heard sound of crying of her daughter and when she
came out from the house she saw the accused was carrying her daughter on his
lap and when her daughter came near to her she asked as to why she was
carrying the she reported that the accused asked her to bring betel nut and out
of fear she cried. In cross she stated that she has no objection if the accused is
acquitted from this case.

9. PW3, Victim of this case deposed that she visited to the house of
accused to watch T.V. where her uncle asked her to bring betel nut and when
she returned with betel nut and gave betel nut to her uncle, (accused) he took
her on his lap and out of fear she cried. In cross she stated that she cried only
out of fear of the accused.

10. From the discussion of testimonies of the prosecution witnesses
it is seen that there is no allegation of any penetrative sexual assault to the
minor victim nor there is any material of sexual assault to fulfill the ingredient
of section 8 of POCSO Act. The victim cried only when the accused took her
on his lap suddenly.
Special Case No.34/18

4
11. So from the detail discussion made above, it is seen that the
prosecution could not establish the case against the accused Ekabbar Ali Sk.
under section 4 of POCSO Act beyond all shadow of doubt and hence giving
the benefit of doubt I hereby acquit the accused and set him at liberty
forthwith.
12. The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the court on this 16th March/2019 at Kokrajhar Court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
