IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE :: :: SIVASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Special | udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 14 of 2016, U/ S 8 of POCSO Act 2012
(Arising out of Gelakey P.S. Case No. 58/2016)

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Siva Nayak... Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
For the accused Mr. D. K. Gohain, Advocate

(State Defence Counsel)
Date of framing Charge : 16.07.2016
Dates of Evidence 25.01.2017, 21.03.2017,
05.06.2017, 07.02.2018
Date of S/D 11.04.2018
Date of Argument 15.09.2018
Date of J udgment 28.09.2018
JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 18.04.2016, informant Sri

Bikram Nayak lodged an FIR with O/C, Gelakey P.S. alleging, inter alia, that
on 17.04.2016, at about 4 PM, while his minor daughter victim 'A' (name
withheld), aged about 8 years was playing at the nearby field, the accused Siva
Nayak on the allurement of giving Rs. 10/- to her took her to his house and

touched her private parts.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Gelakey P.S. Case No. 58/2016, U/S 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and started investigation. During investigation,

victim was medically examined and recorded her statement in the court U/S

SPI (P) Case No. 14/2016 Page 1 of 11
164 Cr.P.C. Accused Siva Nayak was arrested and produced him before this
court. On completion of investigation, 1.0. has submitted Charge-Sheet against
the above named accused person U/S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

3. Upon receipt of charge sheet, copy was furnished to the accused
and after hearing both the sides, vide order dated 16.07.2016, my learned
predecessor in office has framed the charge U/S 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 against
the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial. During

trial, prosecution side has examined seven witnesses including M.O. and 1.0.

4, Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial and false implication.
Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was called upon to enter into

defence.

5. | have heard argument of learned Special P.P. Mr. Srimanta Gogol
and Mr. D. K. Gohain, learned State defence counsel and gone through the

evidence on record. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -
6. (1) What was the age of the victim 'A' on the date of incident?

(11) Whether on 17.04.2016, at about 4 PM, victim 'A' was subjected to

sexual harassment by the accused with sexual intent?
DECI SION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. PW-1 Dr. Mukunda Rabha in his evidence deposed that on
19.04.2016 at about 01.00 P.M., he examined the victim A in connection with
Gelakey PS Case No. 58/16 and upon examination, he found that the age of the
victim is below 18 years. No sign of any recent injuries on her person and no

Sign of recent sexual intercourse were found. PW-1 proved his report as Ext. 1.

8. PW-2 Sri Bikram Nayak, the father of the victim in his evidence

deposed that on 17.04.2016, while he was on work, on hearing hue and cry in

SPI (P) Case No. 14/2016 Page 2 of 11
the residence of the accused, he went there and came to know that some
incident occurred with his daughter. From his daughter (victim A), he learnt
that while she was playing in the nearby field, accused Siva Nayak by giving ten
rupees, asked her to open her cloths. On denial by her, accused pulled her
clothes i.e. pant. His daughter also told him that wife of the accused came at
the place and asked the accused about his misdeed and to inform the matter to
victim's house, accused has assaulted his wife. On knowing all these, when
Bikram Nayak tried to question accused Siva Nayak about the incident, he flew
away to nearby field. On this incident, he lodged the FIR. Exbt. 2 is the FIR
and Exbt. 2(i) is his signature. At the time of incident, the age of his daughter
was about 7-8 years. In his cross examination PW-1 deposed that he has not
seen the incident on his own. The FIR was lodged on the next day of the
incident. In the FIR, no reason was shown for delay in filling the FIR. House of
the accused is near to his residence. Several other children were used to play
near his house. He cannot say how his daughter went to the residence of the
accused Siva.

9. PW 3 the victim of this case in her evidence deposed that on the
date of incident, while she was playing in the nearby field, accused Siva Nayak
took her to his house in the name of giving ten rupees and by taking her inside
room, he pulled down her pant. She objected but accused hold her mouth.
Suddenly, wife of the accused Siva arrived there and he concealed her on the
back of the door. When his wife tried to inform the matter to mother of victim,
there was hue and cry. On this, the accused has assaulted his wife. Then she
left the house of the accused. After some time, her father arrived there. On
inquiry, she told the incident to her parents. Police also took her for medical
examination and to court for recording statement. She gave statement in court.
At the time of incident, she was reading in class III. In her cross examination
PW-3 deposed that she used to play with other children near the house of the

accused. Siva used to talk to her daily. On that day, Siva did not give her any

SPI (P) Case No. 14/2016 Page 3 of 11
money. Siva did not open her other cloths except pant. Siva was about to

misbehave her but failed. She denied that Siva did nothing.

10. PW-4 Smt. Boby Nayak in her evidence deposed that about 9-10
months back on hearing hue and cry at the residence of accused, she went
there and by that time accused was taken to the house of the victim. She heard
from victim A that accused Siva Nayak and by giving ten rupees, asked her to
open her pant. On denial by her, accused tried to commit misdeed but by that
time wife of the accused came there. On these accused left her. In her cross
examination PW-4 deposed that she has not seen the incident on her own. She
cannot say the date of incident. She denied that being the relative of the victim,

she deposed falsely.

11. PW-5 Sri Bikash Nayak in his evidence deposed that about 9-10
months back, on returning home from market, the victim told him that while
she was playing, accused Siva Nayak by giving ten rupees, asked her to open
her pant. In his cross examination PW-5 deposed that he cannot say whether
the victim opened her pant or not. At the time of incident, he was at market.
He cannot say whether the money was paid or not. He denied that being the

relative of the victim, he deposed falsely.

12: PW-6 Sri Dipak Nayak in his evidence deposed that on
17.04.2016, while he was sleeping in day time, mother of the victim called him
and told his wife about some incident. After some time, he went to the house of
the victim and from her mother, he came to know that while victim was playing,
accused Siva Nayak by giving some money, asked her to open her pant. On
this, he asked the victim who also told him that accused Siva has touched her
vagina. Siva was kept apprehended there. On asking Siva, he denied the
allegation. In his cross examination PW-6 denied the suggestion that neither
victim nor her mother told him about the incident as deposed by him. He also

denied that, he deposed falsely.

SPI (P) Case No. 14/2016 Page 4 of 11
13. PW-7 SI Ajit Mech, the I/O of this case in his evidence deposed
that during investigation, 18.04.2016 at about 05.00 PM, he went to the place
of occurrence i.e. residence of informant and drawn a sketch map of the PO.
Exbt. 3 is the sketch map. He apprehended the FIR named accused Sri Siva
Nayak. On the same day, victim was sent for medical examination. On
20.04.2016 victim was sent to Court for recording her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. During investigation he has collected the medical report and statement
given by victim in court. Exbt. 4 is the statement of the victim given in court u/s
164 CrPC. In her statement the victim has stated that “accused Siva Nayak has
called her with an assurance to give Rs. 10/- and asked her to open her clothes,
hiding her when his wife came there and assaulted his wife when tried to
inform the matter to victim's parents.” On completion of investigation, he has
submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act. Exbt. 5 is the
charge sheet. In his cross examination PW-7 deposed that as per FIR, incident
occurred on 17.04.2016 and FIR was lodged on 18.04.2016. No explanation
was given showing cause of delay in filling FIR. He has not collected age proof
document of the victim. He has not examined the wife of the accused as
witness of the case. PW-7 denied that, he has not investigated the case
properly. He also denied that he has submitted charge sheet without proper

material.

14. Basing on the above evidence on record, let me decide the points

formulated for just decision of the case.

15. Point No. |: So far age of the victim is concerned, in the FIR the
informant has mentioned the age of the victim as 8 (eight) years. PW 1 the
M.O. in his report mentioned that X-ray report reveals incomplete fusion of
epiphysis of wrist joint and elbow joint and held that victim is below 18 years.
The informant while adducing evidence as PW 2 has reiterated that at the time
of incident the victim was aged about 7 to 8 years. While recording the

evidence of the victim on 25.01.2017, she claimed her age as 9 (nine) years

SPI (P) Case No. 14/2016 Page 5 of 11
and a student of Class-II|. During cross examination, no challenge was made
by the defence on the age of the victim as stated by PW 2, the father of the
victim or the fact that the victim was a student of Class-II| as stated by PW 3,
the victim. In her 164 Cr.P.C. statement Exbt. 4 in which also the victim
claimed her age as 8 (eight) years. So from all these unrebutted evidence on

age, | hold that on the date of incident victim was aged about 8 to 9 years.

16. Point No. Il: So far the allegation of sexual harassment upon
the victim is concerned, from the evidence as narrated herein before, it
appears that the evidence of PW 1 the M.O. that he did not find any injury
mark on the body of the victim found to be believable because no allegation
has ever been made regarding getting any injury on the private parts of the
victim.

17. As per the statement of the victim given as PW 3, it appears that
while she was playing, accused Siva Nayak took her to his house on the
allurement of giving Rs.10/- and by taking her inside the room he pulled down
her pant. Though victim objected but accused hold her mouth. Suddenly wife
of the accused appeared there and accused concealed the victim on the back
of the door. On this matter, there was some hue and cry and accused
assaulted his wife. The victim left the house of the accused and informed the
matter to her father. The above part of evidence of the victim was duly
Supported by PW 2, the father of the victim that victim was taken to the house
of the accused, accused pulled her pant and at that time the wife of the
accused appeared there and then victim flee away. PW 4 and PW 5 also
corroborated the evidence of the victim and stated that from the victim they
came to know that accused took the victim and asked her to open her pant.
PW 4 further corroborated that on denial by the victim, accused tried to
commit misdeed. However PW 6 stated that from the victim he came to know
that accused touched her vagina, but this part of evidence cannot be relied

upon as the victim is silent regarding touching on her private parts. PW 7 is

SPI (P) Case No. 14/2016 Page 6 of 11
the |.0. who did the routine investigation and proved the statement of the
victim as Exbt.4 in which also the victim corroborated that accused asked her
to open her pant.

18. It may be mentioned here that though in the FIR it was
mentioned that accused touched the vagina of the victim and on that basis
charge was framed for the offence u/s 8 of POCSO Act 2012, which ought to
have been framed u/s 10 of POCSO Act, 2012 due to the age of the victim, but
from the statement of the victim it appears that accused simply pulled her pant.
However, victim is silent regarding touching her private parts. Section 7 of
POCSO Act, 2012 defined sexual assault, which is quoted for ready reference.
“7. Sexual assault.— Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does any

other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without
penetration is said to commit sexual assault.”

19. In the course of argument hearing, learned Special P.P. in his
argument has tried to convince that the term of “sexual assault” includes “any
such other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact” and the act
done by the accused covered under this part of definition. However | find force
on the defence submissions that definition of section 7 shows physical contact

and touching of private parts is necessary and same were missing here.

20. At this stage | would like to refer Section 11 of the POCSO Act
2012 which read as under :
“11. Sexual harassment.—A person is said to commit sexual
harassment upon a child when such person with sexual intent—

(i) utters any word or makes any sound, or makes any gesture or
exhibits any object or part of body with the intention that such
word or sound shall be heard, or such gesture or object or part of
body shall be seen by the child; or

(ii) makes a child exhibit his body or any part of his body so as it is
seen by such person or any other person; or

SPI (P) Case No. 14/2016 Page 7 of 11
(ili) shows any object to a child in any form or media for
pornographic purposes; or

(iv) repeatedly or constantly follows or watches or contacts a child
either directly or through electronic, digital or any other means; or

(v) threatens to use, in any form of media, a real or fabricated
depiction through electronic, film or digital or any other mode, of
any part of the body of the child or the involvement of the child in
a sexual act; or

(vi) entices a child for pornographic purposes or gives gratification
therefor.

Explanation.—Any question which involves “sexual intent” shall be a
question of fact.

21. This definition of sexual harassment appears to be applicable in
this case. From the totality of the evidence of the victim, it appears that the
evidence that the accused asked the victim to open her pant and on her denial
accused pulled her pant amounts to compelling her to exhibit her body. In this
case the intention of the accused to touch the private part of the victim is
missing which is an essential ingredient of the term of “sexual assault” as
defined u/s 7 of the POCSO Act, 2012. From the materials available on record, |
am of the considered opinion that the offence proved against the accused only
covers the term of “sexual harassment” as defined u/s 11(ii) of POCSO Act,
2012. As such, the argument of learned Special P.P. that accused should be

held guilty for causing sexual assault cannot be acceptable.

22 The defence argument that accused is innocent also cannot be
accepted simply because the wife of the accused was not examined by the
prosecution. Non-examination of wife of the accused is quite natural simply
because in the social circumstances normally it cannot be expected that a wife

will adduce evidence against her husband.

23. Considering all above, | hold that though charge was framed u/s 8
of POCSO Act, 2012 for causing sexual assault, but in my considered opinion
prosecution has been able to prove the offence of sexual harassment only as
defined u/s 11 and made punishable u/s 12 of POCSO Act, 2012.

SPI (P) Case No. 14/2016 Page 8 of 11
24. As the offence proved is minor in nature to be offence charged,
by applying power u/s 22 Cr.P.C. without altering the charge, | am of the
opinion that accused can sufficiently be convicted and accordingly accused is
held guilty and convicted for the offence punishable u/s 12 of POCSO Act, 2012.

25. Heard both the sides on the point of sentence. Statement of the

accused is recorded in separate sheets.

26. During hearing on the sentence, learned Special P.P. has
submitted that no leniency should be shown to the accused. On the other hand,
learned Advocate for the accused has submitted that during investigation
accused was arrested on 18.04.2016 and was remanded to Jail custody on
19.04.2016 and was in Jail till 4.10.2016, the date on which the bail was
granted to the accused. It is also submitted that as per the investigation made
by this court on the plea of juvenility taken by the accused in his 313 Cr.P.C.
examination, it reveals that on the date of incident accused was aged about 18
(eighteen) years 5% months. So considering above, the period already
undergone should be treated as sufficient sentence of imprisonment of the
accused for the offence proved against him. | have considered the submission
of both the sides.

27. Section 12 of POCSO Act, 2012 provides for punishment up-to 3
(three) years and fine. However, considering the age of the accused, | am of
the opinion that the period already undergone, I.e. five and half months in J ail

will be sufficient sentence of imprisonment along with imposition of some fine.

28. Considering all aspects, | sentence the accused Siva Nayak to
undergo simple imprisonment (SI) for 5 (five) months and to pay a fine of Rs.
1,000/- (Rupees one thousand) for the offence u/s 12 of POCSO Act, 2012.

29. It is provided that in the event of realization of fine amount, the
entire amount shall go to the father of the victim for spending for betterment of

the victim as compensation u/s 357 Cr.P.C.

SPI (P) Case No. 14/2016 Page 9 of 11
30. Convict Siva Nayak is entitled for the benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C.

for the period already undergone during investigation and trial.

31. Considering the fact of order for payment of compensation to
victims U/S 357 Cr.P.C is made, no separate is required to be made u/s 357A
Cr.P.C. As such, matter is not referred U/S 357A Cr.P.C.

32. Let a free of cost copy of the judgment be given to the convict

Siva Nayak immediately as per the provisions of Section 363 (1) Cr.P.C.

33. Convict is informed about his right of appeal before Hon'ble
Gauhati High Court.

34. It may be mentioned here that judgment was fixed for delivery
on 28.09.2018 but same could not be delivered on that day due to absence of
accused and fixed on 01.10.2018.

30: Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of

on contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 1° day of
October, 2018 at Sivasagar.

Special J udge,

SPI (P) Case No. 14/2016 Page 10 of 11
APPENDIX

. Prosecution witnesses -

P.W.1- Dr. Mukunda Rabha (M.O.)
P.W.2- Sri Bikram Nayak (informant)
P.W.3- Victim 'A'

P.W.4- Smt. Boby Nayak

P.W.5- Sri Bikash Nayak

P.W.6- Sri Dipak Nayak

P.W.7- SI Ajit Mech (1.0.)

. Defence witnesses : None

. Court witnesses None

. Exhibits by prosecution -
Exbt.1 - Medical examination report

Exbt.2 - FIR

Exbt.3 - Sketch map

Exbt.4 - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim 'A'
Exbt.5 - Charge-Sheet

Special | udge,
Sivasagar

SPI (P) Case No. 14/2016 Page 11 of 11
