HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE BILASIPARA

Present:- Smti S. Bhuyan, AJS
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Special Case No- 01 of 2017
u/s 4 of POCSO Act
STATE
Versus

1. Durjan Mallah,
S/O Lt. Bongsi Mallah,
R/O Vill- Bilasipara, W/N-10
PS- Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri, Assam

Accused person

(Corresponding to GR case No- 16/17 (Bilasipara PS Case No. 12/17) u/s 4 of

POCSO Act)
Advocate appeared: -
For the state Se Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Special P.P.
For the accused - Mr. Amiya Kr. Nath, Advocate.
Date of institution of the case :- 03-01-17
Date of Framing charge :- 20-01-18
Date of prosecution evidence :- 09-05-18, 30-06-18, 20-07-18, 01-09-18,

25-09-18, 12-10-18

Statement of accused recorded on — :- 11-12-18
Date of Argument :- 07-01-19
Judgment delivered :- 19-01-19

Hearing on Sentence :- 24-01-19
2|Page

Sentence Pronounced :- 24-01-19

JUDGMENT
Prosecution Case

1. Prosecution case as reveal from Ext-1 ejahar is that on 03-01-17
informant Rekha Mallah lodged written ejahar before O/C Bilasipara PS inter alia
citing that on 03-01-17 at about 02.00 pm accused Durjan Mallah enticed her
daughter Miss X ( name changed, herein after read as Miss X) to his house telling
her that he will give biscuit to her and made her sit on his lap and committed
rape on her. When her daughter Miss X cried, local people came to the house of
accused and caught accused red handed. Thereafter police was called and
accused Durjan Mallah was handed over to the police.
Investigation

2. Officer in charge Bilasipara PS, on receipt of ejahar from informant Rekha
Mallah registered a police case vide Bilasipara PS case no. 12/17 u/s 4 of POCSO
Act and SI Bijoy Kr. Das was entrusted to conduct the investigation of the case
and after completion of investigation I/O submitted charge sheet against the

accused Durjan Mallah u/s 4 of POCSO Act and cognizance taken.

Charge

3. After hearing learned counsel for both sides and perusal of material on
record charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused Durjan Mallah
and when charges are read over and explained to the accused person, he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

Trial
4. In order to prove the prosecution charges against the accused person,
prosecution adduced evidence of all together 9 number of witnesses including
one court witness and exhibited 5 nos. of documents. PW-1 Rekha Mallah, PW-2
Jhantu Mallah, PW-3 Miss X, victim, PW-4 Rajesh Choudhury, PW-5 Ahitan Bibi,
PW-6 Inspector Saidul Islam (1.0), PW-7 SI Bijoy Kumar Das ( I.O), PW-8 Dr.
Rinku Ahmed (M.O) and CW-1 Rupam Medhi (court witness). Ext-1 Ejahar, Ext-3
Sketch Map, Ext-4 Charge sheet, Ext-5 Medical report, Ext-6 Statement of Miss X
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. After closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of
the accused person recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Accused plea is total denial,

however declined to adduced evidence in support of the plea of denial.
3|Page

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:-

i) Whether accused on 03-01-17 at about 02.00 pm at Bilasipara W/N-10
under Bilasipara PS committed penetrative sexual assault on informant’s
daughter Miss X ?

ARGUMENT

6. Ld. Addl. P.P submits victim girl who is only 5 ¥2 years old child stated
about touching by accused, taking her to his house and child cry when accused
touched means it is not proper touch because a child also know the touch of a
person. The mother of the child remain intact in her statement and prosecution
established the case against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.

7. It has been argued by ld. defence counsel that accused is an innocent
person and living alone at his house and evidence of father of the victim shown
presence of land dispute and his evidence does not pointed happening of sexual
assault and case of the prosecution not established against the accused.

PROSECUTION EVIDENCE

8. PW-1 Rekha Mallah is the informant of the case. Her evidence is that
victim child is her daughter and she knows accused person. She deposed
incident was took place in the year 2017 in the month of January at about 02.00
pm and at the time of incident she was not present at home and _ she went to
her work where she work as domestic helper. She deposed leaving her victim
daughter she went to work as at that time leg of husband got fractured 2-3
months prior to the incident. She deposed accused coming to her house offered
biscuit to her victim daughter and lured her daughter to his house. When
accused took away her victim daughter, her husband saw it and another person
Karanti also saw it and after taking out her daughter in the house of accused, her
daughter cried. Hearing cry of her daughter, her husband and other people went
there and found that accused touched vagina, face and other private parts of her
victim daughter and her husband informed the said incident to her over mobile
phone. Thereafter she came home and asked her victim daughter as to what
happened to her. To that her victim daughter told her that accused took her to
his house in the name of giving biscuit and accused did not give her biscuit and
instead accused touch her daughter’s vagina, face and other private parts. She
deposed police was informed and local people apprehend the accused at the
place of occurrence and handed over accused to the police and thereafter she

lodged ejahar. She deposed after lodging of ejahar, police took her daughter to
4|Page

the Doctor for medical examination and thereafter her daughter was produced
before the court and after recording of statement of her daughter she was given
in her custody. In cross she stated she cannot exactly recollect the exact date of
incident and she was not present at home at the time of incident. She stated she
did not see the incident but she came from her work getting information about
the incident. She stated accused Durjan Mallah is her contiguous neighbour and
one boundary dispute was earlier taken place with accused family. “She denied
defence suggestion that they wanted to purchase the land where accused Durjan
Mallah resides by constructing his house; to send off accused Durjan Mallah from
his resident and locality she filed this case against the accused Durjan Mallah;
accused did not touch vagina, face and private parts of her daughter; accused
did not committed the offence as mentioned in the ejahar and stated by her
before the court.” She further stated she does not know if Durjan Mallah lodged
case against them alleging assault on him by the villager and her husband on the
date of incident.

9. Evidence of PW-2 Jhantu Mallah is that informant is his wife and victim
child is his daughter. He deposed incident was took place in the month of
January, 2017 and at that time he was present at his home as his leg was
fractured. He deposed hearing hue and cry of public and cry of his daughter he
came out from the house with supportive stick and saw his daughter crying and
he also saw accused Durjan Mallah manhandled by the public. He deposed he
come know that accused Durjan Mallah had beaten his daughter and his wife
lodged ejahar. He further deposed his victim daughter told him that accused had
Slapped her. In cross he stated he did not see the assault incident and long
back there was land dispute between him and accused Durjan Mallah. He denied
due to the earlier long back land dispute his wife lodged the case against
accused as per his dictation.

10. PW-3 Miss X, is the victim child. Her evidence is that she knows accused
Durjan Mallah and he lives near to their house. She deposed at the time of
incident her father was present at home and her mother went to her work.
Accused slapped her at his house. She deposed while she was playing accused
Durjan took her to his house telling her that he will give her biscuit but accused
did not give biscuit to her. In cross she stated accused Durjan Mallah slapped
her. She denied accused Durjan Mallah did not slapped her and he only touched
her cheek. She stated she cried and hearing her cry, other came and they beaten

accused Durjan Mallah.
5|Page

11. PW-4 Rajesh Choudhury deposed he is neighbour of informant Rekha
Mallah and he knows victim child and accused person. He deposed incident was
took place in the year 2017. On the date of incident when he returned home
from his shop house to take papad for selling in his shop house, he heard from
resident of their locality and from his mother that accused Durjan had committed
rape on Miss X and local people apprehend him and assaulted. He deposed when
he came to his shop house he learnt that accused was taken by police. He
further deposed incident was took place in the evening time. In cross he stated
he went to house at about 06.00 pm from his shop house and he heard marpit
incident with accused was take place in front of his house. He stated he had not
seen the marpit incident and he has no personal knowledge about the incident.
He denied he did not heard from the resident of the locality and from his mother
that accused had committed rape on informant’s daughter Miss X.

12. Evidence of PW-5 Ahitan Bibi is that in the year 2017 on the day of
incident, while she came for shopping in the market, she heard hue and cry and
came to know that accused Durjan assaulted Miss X, victim child. In cross she
stated she cannot recollect the exact date of incident. She had not seen
gathering of people of the locality. She had not seen who had assaulted whom.
13. PW-6 Inspector Saidul Islam is investigating officer. His evidence is that
on 03-01-17 while he was working as O/C at Bilasipara PS he had received ejahar
from Rekha Malla. Accordingly he registered a police case vide Bilasipara P.S.
Case No. 12/2017 u/s 4 of POCSO Act and endorsed SI Bijoy Kr. Das to
investigate the case and SI Bijoy Kr. Das submitted the charge-sheet vide
Charge-Sheet No. 178/2017 dated 29-04-2017 against the accused Durjan Malla
u/s 4 of POCSO Act. He deposed during investigation SI Bijoy Kr. Das visited
place of occurrence, drawn sketch map, recorded statement of the informant and
other witnesses and victim, and produced victim before the court to record her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C and after medical examination of the victim arrested
accused and produced before the Court and after collecting medical report
submitted charge-sheet vide Ext-4. In cross he stated he did not conduct the
investigation of the case. He denied he does not know that his junior Police
officer, the investigation officer Bijoy Kr. Das did not conduct proper investigation
of the case.

14. PW-7 SI Bijoy Kumar Das is another I.O of the case. His evidence is that
while he was working as S.I at Bilasipara PS on 03-01-17 Rekha Malla lodged
written ejahar before O/C Bilasipara PS and O/C Bilasipara PS after registering a
police case vide Bilasipara PS Case No. 12/2017 u/s 4 of POCSO Act endorsed
6|Page

him to investigate the case. Thereafter he had recorded the statement of
informant at the police station as informant was available at the police station
and also recorded statement of victim child and thereafter took victim child to the
Dhubri Civil Hospital for her medical examination and thereafter he had produce
the victim child before the court to record her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On the
next day of lodging of the ejahar, he went to the place of occurrence i.e the
house of accused Durjan Mallah, recorded statement of other witnesses, drawn
the sketch map of the place of occurrence. He deposed on the date of incident
village public apprehend accused Durjan Mallah and handed over to the
Bilasipara PS and he produced the accused Durjan Mallah before the court after
interrogating him. He deposed during investigation period he had collected
medical report of the victim child. In cross he stated when accused was handed
over to police station by the public injury was found on his body and public
beaten the accused. He stated according to the case diary when the victim child
cried, public apprehended the accused. He denied he has submitted charge sheet
in this case without investigation.
15. PW-8 Dr. Rinku Ahmed is M.O. Her evidence is that on 03-01-17 she had
medically examined victim child in connection with Bilasipara PS Case No. 12/17
and on examination found- identification mark- a mole on the back side of the
neck; patient was oriented in space and time; pulse- 64 bpm; temperature-
normal; respiratory rate- normal; clothing- fresh; examination of injuries- no
injuries found; PV examination not done as the introitus is very small. She further
deposed history of case is- one man tried to sexually assault the child. In her
final opinion- patient was not consistent with recent sexual intercourse or
assault. She deposed Ext-5 is medical report and Ext- 5(1) is her signature.
Defence declined to cross examine PW-8.
16. CW-1 Rupam Medhi, Bench Assistant, in the court of Ld. SDJM(M),
Bilasipara. He deposed on 05-01-2017 Ms. Panchali Shyam was working and
posted as SDJM (M), Bilasipara. On that day then Ld. SDJM (M), Bilasipara
Panchali Shyam recorded statement of Miss X, victim child u/s 164 Cr.P.C. He
deposed he had identified the signature of then Ld. SDJM (M), Bilasipara Ms.
Panchali Shyam as Presiding Officer present on the statement of Miss X recorded
u/s 164 Cr.P.C. In cross he stated on 05-01-2017 he was not working as Bench
Asstt.

DISCUSSION, DECISION & REASON THERE OF:-
17. Ext-1 is the ejahar. Ext-1 is lodged by PW-1 Rekha Mallah, mother of the
child victim. It has been alleged by informant (PW-1) in her ejahar that on 03-01-

 
7|Page

17 at about 02.00 pm accused Durjan Mallah enticed her victim daughter ( PW-3)
to his house telling her that he will give biscuit to her and made her sit on his
lap and committed rape on her. When the little girl cried, local people came to
the house of accused and caught accused red handed. Police was called and
handed over to police. Now let me find out whether informant substantiates the
statement before the court that was made by her in the ejahar on 03-01-17.

18. PW-1 informant at the time of adducing evidence stated accused offering
biscuit to her daughter lured her daughter, taken her at his house and her
daughter cried in the house of accused and hearing cry of victim child at
accused’s house neighboring people and her husband rushed there and saw
accused touching her daughter’s vagina, private parts and face and when her
daughter came home, her daughter told her that accused touched her face,
private parts. Her statement shown she has substantiate her statement made in
the ejahar. Before the police she stated similar statement what she had made in
her ejahar.

19. PW-1 in cross stated she did not witness the incident. Her in chief shown
she is a domestic helper and was not present at home when incident was took
place. She stated she heard incident from her daughter. At the time of incident
child victim was aged about 4 years. When victim was examined she stated she
knows accused Durjan Mallah and she was taken by Durjan Mallah while she was
playing at her house telling her that he will give her biscuit and slapped her at his
house and he did not give her biscuit. She stated at that time her mother was
not present at home and her father was present at home. In cross she denied
that accused did not slap her. She deposed in cross accused had touched her
and she cried and other came to accused’s house.

20. PW-1 not claimed that she was present at her home when incident was
took place. Her statement shown she came home after hearing incident that was
took place on her 4 years old child. Victim child corroborates accused enticing her
(4 years old child victim) from her house to the house of accused in the name of
giving biscuit when child was playing at her home. The taking away the child
from her house by accused Durjan Mallah to his house in the name of giving
biscuit and then not giving biscuit and made her cry touching her made it
abundantly clear of his ill motive. Generally children loves to eat biscuit, while
child was playing at her house, without taking consent, permission of the
guardian of the child, moving the child establish means rea of the accused and
then made her to cry by touching her only includes that his touch is fervor with

sexual flavor and with this intention accused moves the child victim in the name
8|Page

of giving her biscuit. Accused after taking child victim to his house did not give
her biscuit. That again shown accused with bad intention taken away the child
from her house without consent of parents of victim child. Accused lured the
child to his house in the name of giving biscuit to her. Other PWs including father
of the child victim who rushed to accused's house also stated child was noticed
and found in the house of accused. The manner of taking away the child victim
silently from her house shown his ill motive. Had accused intention was to give
biscuit to the child, he could have given at her house when she was playing at
her house. There is no justified reason comes in favour of accused secretly taking
away of the child from her house when her father was present at home and
when she was playing in her compound. The ill motive of accused present when
he took away the child in the name of giving biscuit to her from her compound
when she was playing. Accused did not give biscuit to the child after taking her
at his house. He beaten her, touch her, made her cry and slapping a child on her
cheek and child crying instantly on touching by accused at his house shown that
accused did indecent act and his touch was indecent on the child and taking
place of untoward incident establish. Touching of the child by the accused is an
admitted fact and in cross victim child stated accused touch her and she cried.
21. Victim child has made her statement before the Ld. Judicial Magistrate
and before Ld. Magistrate she has stated that accused bite on her cheek and put
his hand inside her panty from her front side. Before court she stated accused
Slapped on her cheek after calling her at his home in the name of giving her
biscuits and touch her. Her testimonies before the court together with the
testimonies of informant make it abundantly clear that accused touched victim
child in appropriate manner that is understood by a child.

22. Modesty is the property of woman and she carries the same with her
birth. In State of Punjab vs Major Singh AIR 1967 SC 63 Hon’ble Apex
Court in a case of seven month baby girl possess modesty or not held “The
offence punishable under section 354 IPC is an assault on or use of criminal force
to a woman with the intention of outraging her modesty or with the knowledge
of the likelihood of doing so. The Code does not define "modesty". What then is
a woman's modesty? I think that the essence of a woman's modesty is her sex.
The modesty of an adult female is writ large on her body. Young or old,
intelligent or imbecile, awake or sleeping, the woman possesses a modesty
capable of being outraged. Whoever uses criminal force to her with intent to
outrage her modesty commits an offence punishable under section 354 IPC. The

culpable intention of the accused is the crux of the matter. The reaction of the
9|Page

woman is very relevant, but its absence is not always decisive, as, for example,
when the accused with a corrupt mind stealthily touches the flesh of a sleeping
woman. She may be an idiot, she may be under the spell of anesthesia, she may
be sleeping, she may be unable to appreciate the significance of the act;
nevertheless, the offender is punishable under the section. A female of tender
age stands on a somewhat different footing. Her body is immature, and her
sexual powers are dormant. In this case, the victim is a baby seven and half
months old. She has not yet developed a sense of shame and has no awareness
of sex. Nevertheless, from her very birth she possesses the modesty which is the
attribute of her sex.”

23. Coming to the testimonies of PW-4 and PW-5 it has been appeared that
when they came, they heard hue and cry and came to know accused assaulted
child victim. PW-5 came for shopping in the market and heard incident at place
of occurrence and PW-4 also heard that accused committed sexual assault on
child victim who is the daughter of PW-1 and PW-2. Statement of PW-4 and PW-
5 further pointed that accused was apprehended by public and handed over to
police. PW-6 who was then O/C Bilasipara PS and PW-7 IO of the case
corroborated the statement of PW-4 and PW-5 about handing over of accused by
public after the incident. Victim child was taken to doctor PW-7 and PW-7 MO of
the case stated as per history one man try to sexually assault the child. As victim
was about 4 years old at the time of incident PV examination was not done as
introitus is very small.

24. The victim child was taken to the house of accused by the accused from
victim’s compound in the name of giving biscuit is establish beyond all reasonable
doubt and victim girl who went to the house of accused happily cried in the
house of accused when he touch her and she made complaint of sexual assault
on her by accused and when hearing cry of victim child, neighboring people
rushed to the accused’s house, found accused with victim child and police was
called upon and agitated public manhandled accused and accused was handed
over to the police. The entire evidence pointed the means rea of the accused and
bring on record the sexual assault on the victim child by touching her
inappropriately that made child cry loudly out of pain and fear. Here physical
contact of the child by the accused took place and that contact is inappropriate
that made child to cry loudly.

25. Section 7 of the POCSO Act (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012) says- Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or

breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of
10| Page

such person or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which
involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.
26. Here, in the present case accused with sexual intent touched victim child
and when accused’s unfortunate touch is seen by the child victim she shouted
and touching of the victim child by accused with bad intention which is present
from the very beginning of his conduct of taking away of the child out of the
custody of guardian without their consent, knowledge, permission and then
making child to cry loudly by touching her body amounted to sexual assault on
the child and accused with sole motive to sexually assault the child taken her to
his house luring her in the name of giving biscuit and then after taking her at his
house he touched the body of the child victim which is not appropriate and fervor
with sexual intent fulfill the ingredients of section 7 of the POCSO Act.

27. In the case in hand evidence on record more particularly the statement of
PW-1 and child victim and statement of victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C which is
proved by CW-1 only bring ingredients of section 7 of the POCSO Act against the
accused Durjan Mallah. Situated thus, I find that provision of sec 222 Cr.P.C is
applicable in the case in hand to render justice to the victim child of the case and
same will not miscarriage the due procedure of law and there will not be any
vitiation of proceeding and miscarriage of justice will not be done to accused
when material on record constituted commission of offence u/s 7 of POCSO Act
of which charge has not been framed by the Court. Hon’ble Apex court in a
catena of decision held that-It is true that section 222 Cr.P.C entitles a Court to
convict a person of an offence which is minor in comparison to the one for which
he is tried’. Section 222 Cr.P.C is quoted below:-

28. Section 222 Cr.P.cC- When offence proved included in offence
charged-

(1) When a person is charged with an offence consisting of several
particulars, a combination of some only of which constitutes a
complete minor offence, and such combination is proved, but the
remaining particulars are not proved, he may be convicted of the
minor offence, though he was not charged with it;

(2) When a person is charged with an offence and facts are proved which
reduces it to a minor offence, he may be convicted of the minor
offence, although he is not charged with it;

(3) When a person is charged with an offence, he may be convicted of
an attempt to commit such offence although the attempt is not

separately charged;
11| Page

(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorize a conviction of
any minor offence where conclusions requisite for the initiation of
proceeding in respect of that minor offence have not been satisfied.

29. Upon perusal of the evidence on record I am of the considered opinion
that ingredient of section 7 of POCSO Act has been fully satisfied in this case
against the accused Durjan Mallah. From the evidence on record I found accused
Durjan Mallah is guilty of commission of sexual assault on victim child by taking
her to his house luring her in the name of giving biscuit. Therefore I have come
to my considerate judicious finding that when prosecution fairly able to bring
home the ingredients of section 7 of POCSO Act against the accused Durjan
Mallah beyond all reasonable doubt which attracts penal provision of section 8 of
the POCSO Act, therefore, to meet the ends of justice and to give justice to the
victim of this case, invoking of section 222 Cr.P.C is utmost required and
accordingly by invoking provision of section 222 Cr.P.C , I hold accused Durjan
Mallah guilty of under section 8 of POCSO Act and accused Durjan Mallah is
convicted u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.

30. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and nature of the
offence and manner of the commission of the offence by the accused, I do not
find any just ground to consider the accused u/s 360 Cr.P.C. and to extend the
benefit of Probation of Offender Act in favour of the convicted accused and

accordingly he is not considered under the said benevolent provision of the Act.
HEARING ON SENTENCE

31. I have heard accused and his counsel and prosecution side on the point
of sentence. Accused stated he is poor person and plea of sentence of accused is
written in a separate sheet enclosed with the case record. Ld. defence counsel
prayed for leniency for convicted accused. Ld. Addl. P.P submits that accused be
sentenced in accordance with law.

32. Considering the nature of the offence and facts and circumstances under
which accused have committed the offence of rape on victim girl, spoiling of her
life, loss of chastity and womanhood, mental agony suffered by the victim in view
of the rape and her future agony because of the rape committed on her, her
status and future life in the society because of the rape, and increasing number
of sexual assault on child, I am of the opinion that accused does not deserve any

leniency and he is to be dealt with exemplary punishment.
12| Page
RESULT

33. Accordingly, convicted accused Durjan Mallah is sentenced to undergo
rigorous imprisonment of 3 years and 10 months R.I and to pay fine of Rs
10,000/- i/d another 6 months R.I. u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.

ORDER
34. Accused Durjan Mallah is found guilty u/s 8 of the POCSO Act and he is
convicted u/s 8 of the POCSO Act by invoking provision of section 222 Cr.P.C.
Accordingly, convicted accused Durjan Mallah is sentenced to undergo rigorous
imprisonment of 3 years and 10 months R.I and to pay fine of Rs 10,000/- i/d
another 6 months R.I. u/s 8 of the POCSO Act. Accused Durjan Mallah is
acquitted from charge of section 4 of POCSO Act. Bail bond of accused Durjan
Mallah stands cancelled. Surety discharged.
35: Period under detention is set off u/s 428 Cr.P.C. Let furnish free copy of
Judgment to convicted accused Durjan.
36. The convicted accused is told that he has right to appeal against the
judgment and order of this court before Hon’ble High court through the jail
authority or independently of his own. Convicted accused is further informed that
he is entitled free legal aid to prefer appeal before the Hon’ble High court.
37. Send copy of judgment to learned District Magistrate Dhubri u/s 365
Cr.P.C.
38. Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 24" day of January, 2019

at Bilasipara.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Dictated and Corrected by me,
(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Typed by,
Swmkhwr Brahma, Stenographer Gr. III.
13 | Page
APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

PW-1 Rekha Mallah,

PW-2 Jhantu Mallah,

PW-3 Miss X, victim,

PW-4 Rajesh Choudhury,

PW-5 Ahitan Bibi,

PW-6 Inspector Saidul Islam (1.0),
PW-7 SI Bijoy Kumar Das (1.0),
PW-8 Dr. Rinku Ahmed (M.O)

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Ejahar,
Ext-3 Sketch Map,
Ext-4 Charge sheet,
Ext-5 Medical report.

DEFENCE WITNESS © :- NIL

DEFENCE EXHIBITS — :- NIL

COURT EXHIBITS - Ext-6 Statement of Miss X recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C
COURT WITNESS - CW-1 Rupam Medhi

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
