Page 1 of 18

THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of
accused u/s313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

15 of 2017

(Under Section 8 of POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No 1256
of 2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS

Special judge, Sonitpur,
Tezpur

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Nilsan Nag .@.Nelsan Nag
Son of Sri Gagon Nag

Resident of Gorpara

Police Station — Dhekiajuli

Dist :- Sonitpur, Assam.
12/07/2017

25/07/2017, 13/11/2017,
27/11/2017, 1/12/2017,

& 05/04/2018.

19/04/2018.

20/04/2018

20/04/2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor, Sonitpur

Sri A.K. Saikia, Legal Aid counsel.
Page 2 of 18

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Nelsan @ Nilsan Nag is put for trial
for allegation of charge under Section 8 of POCSO Act.
2. The various facts leading to this case according to FIR in
brief is that on or about 11.30 a.m. of 10-04-2017, in absence of
informant and his wife, informant’s minor daughter who attained
the age of 4 years 5 months alone in the house accused entered
there, induced his minor daughter and forcefully committed rape on
her. The ejahar was filed by informant Sri Nikodin Bage before the
O/C of Dhekiajuli PS on 11-04-2017.
3. On being receipt the ejahar, the O/C Dhekiajuli P.S.
registered the case, vide Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 269/17, under
Section 3/4/6 of POCSO Act. After completion ofusual investigation,
the O/C Dhekiajuli Police station sent up.the, case for trial against
the accused Sri Nelsan @ Nilsan Nag under Section 8 of POCSO
Act.
4. On being appeared the accused person before this Court
after hearing both parties, framed charge under section 8 of POCSO
Act. Particulars of the.charge are read over and explained to which
he pleads not guilty.and claimed to be tried.
5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 8
(eight) numbers of witnesses. Accused pleads total denial while his
statement was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made
against the accused and evidence appears against the accused are
put before him where he deny the evidence and decline to give
defence evidence.
6. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned
counsel for both parties.
7. The point for decision in this case is that :

(i) Whether on or about 11.30 a.m. at

Gormara under Dhekiajuli Police station,

accused committed sexual assault on victim,

aged about 5 years 4 months and thereby
Page 3 of 18

committed an offence punishable under
section 8 of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the
evidence on record.

9. PW- 1 Dr. Tutumoni Handique, stated that that on 11-04-
2017 she was posted as working as Sr. Medical & Health Officer in
the Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at about \2.30
p.m. in the labour room complex of KCH, she examined Mahima
Bage, 5 yrs. 5 months, D/O Nikodin Bagge of Gorpara, PS Dhekiajuli
in reference to Dhekiajuli PS Case NO. 269/17. u/s , 3/4/6 of the
pOCSO Act , on being escorted and identified\by Woman Home
Guard Kunjalata Kakoti of Dhekiajuli PS, vide, Hospital Registration
No. 4085/17. She was examined in.presence of GNM Anna Marry.
On examination she found the following:

History — according to-thewictim as explained by her mother
she was sexually assaulted on 10-04-2017 at about 11 a.m. by
known person.

Height — 94.cm, Weight — 11 Kg, Teeth — 5 in all quadrants
all temporary teeth. No marks of violence seen on her body as well
as on hersprivate parts. Hymen present.

Investigation report:

1.Vaginal smear — no spermatozoa seen. Done at KCH
laboratory. Lab No. 47/17.

2. X-ray for determination of age —

Age of the person under investigation appears to be under
10 years.

Done at Assam X-ray Clinic and Laboratory. Patient ID AXC
236, Radiologist Dr. P.K. Barman.

OPINION: . 1. Actual age of the victim is below 10 years.
2. No sign and symptom suggestive of recent

sexual intercourse.
Page 4 of 18

3. No marks of injury on her body as well as
on her private parts.

Enclos: Advice slip, Vaginal smear report and X-ray for age
determination.

Ext. 1 is the Medical Report and Ext. 1(1) is her signature.

Ext. 2 is the X-ray report and Ext. 2(1) is the signature of Dr. P.K.
Barman, Radiologist. Ext. 3 is the laboratory report of KCH and Ext.
3(1) is the signature of laboratory technician. Ext. 4 advice slip
along with the X-ray plates.
10. PW- 2 Sri Nikodin Bage, father of the victim and
complainant stated that the incident took place about three months
ago one day at about 10 AM. On the day of incident, at the evening
when he arrived home after work, his wife<Katina Bage informed
him that his minor daughter Miss X, aged.about 5 years was raped
by accused Nelson Nag in their house. Then, his daughter Miss X
informed him by crying that accused Nelson committed misdeed to
her by holding. Then he searched,the accused Nelson and met him
on the road, but, he fled‘away’without responding him. In the next
day, he lodged the ejahar before Dhekiajuli Police Station by putting
thumb impression. Police recorded his statement.

Though.he-has been exposed to long cross-examination, the
evidence-as*to at the evening when he arrived home after work, his
wife Katina Bage informed him that his minor daughter Miss X, aged
about»5 years was raped by accused Nelson Nag in their house,
Then, his daughter Miss X informed him by crying that accused
Nelson committed misdeed to her by holding has remained
unchallenged.

11. PW -3 Smt. Katina Bage stated that the incident took place
about 2/3 months ago. On the said day of incident, at about 12 AM
after doing her work of Job Card she arrived at home. During that
time her daughter Miss X told her by crying that accused committed
misdeed to her by applying spit on her private part. Accused is also
applied his hand in her private part. Her daughter also told her that

the said incident took place at their home. She also reported that
Page 5 of 18

for the act of the accused, she had suffering pain on her private
part. Then she informed the matter to the village headman Bisnath.
The gaonburha immediately came to their home and saw her victim
daughter. In the next day, her husband lodged the FIR and then
police arrived at their home. The incident took place in Monday and
her husband lodged the ejahar on Tuesday. Police took her
daughter/victim for medical examination. Police has also sent
herdaughter/victim to the Court for recording her statement. During
investigation, police has seized the panty and other clothes. which
were put by her victim daughter at the time of incident.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination,
the evidence as to on day of incident, at about 12 AM after doing
her work of Job Card she arrived at home, during that time her
daughter Miss X told her by crying that accused committed misdeed
to her by applying spit on her private part, accused is also applied
his hand in her private part, as a result, she had suffering pain on
her private part has remained*unchallenged.

12. PW 4, Smti Quari Bage, stated that the incident took place
about 2/3 months ago. On the day of incident, she has been to field
to tether her cattle.at about 9 AM. Then she came to the house of
informant and ‘found victim Miss X in their house. As she was alone,
so, she_asked_her to play there. After about one hour, when she
return‘to her home, she saw accused Nelson Nag in the house of
the\informant. Then she asked Nelson why he has been in the
house of complainant since there were no other older person and
there were only a little girl Miss X. She saw Miss X who was in
crying and she asked her why she was crying. Then Miss X told her
that accused Nelson opened her panty. Then she told her that her
mother arrived at about 12 O’clock and then she informed the
matter to her mother. Then she remained there till arrival of the
mother of the victim. After arrival of her mother, she told her
mother that accused committed misdeed to her by applying spit on

her private part and thereafter she left the house.
Page 6 of 18

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination,

the evidence as to when she returned to her house she saw
accused in the house of the informant and on being asked him why
he has been in the house of the informant, and saw Miss X was
crying and Miss X told her that accused opened her panty has
remained unchallenged. Rather she admitted that the victim’s
mother informed her that accused committed misdeed to her
daughter by applying spit on her private parts.
13. PW 5 the victim Miss X, who was examined after making
enquiry by putting different questions to test as to her intelligence
and ability to give rational answers stated that she\ Knows the
accused. At the relevant time she was at their own house. Accused
came to their house at about 12 O’ clock in the.\day when she was
alone. Accused came to their house and opened her panty and
applies spit on her private parts.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she had made

statement to the learned Magistrate. She has also admitted that she
was instructed what to state before the court.
14. PW 6 Smti Moddit Bage stated that the incident took place
in this year at about 4/ 5 months ago. At the time of incident she
went to work. ‘At-about 12 O’clock when she returned to home she
heard that victim Miss X was crying. Then she asked her why she
was Crying, she replied that Nelson committed rape on her. The
victim)i.e. her grand-daughter shown her private parts to her and
she noticed swelling on her private parts. Nelson fled away. At 5
p.m. father of the victim Miss X caught Nelson. Then, mother of
victim filed this case. Thereafter police sent the victim for medical
examination and sent her to the learned Magistrate for recording
her Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and thereafter, she was handed over
to her parents. Accused Nelson was involved in such type of
activities on earlier occasion also.

In cross-examination she admitted that while she returned

to home, she heard that victim Miss X was crying, then she asked
Page 7 of 18

her why she was crying, she replied that Nelson committed rape on
her has remained unchallenged.

15. PW-7 Sri David Doimari, 1.0. of this case, has stated that
on 11-04-2017 he was posted at Dhekiajuli Police station as ASI. On
that day, one Nikodin Bage lodged an ejahar before O/C Dhekiajuli
Police station. In the said ejahar the complainant put thumb
impression. On receipt of the ejahar the then I/C Dhekiajuli PS SI
Ghana Kanta Baruah registered a case vide Dhekiajuli PS case
No.269/17 u/s 3/4/6 of the POCSO Act and endorsed him to took up
the investigation. Ext. 5 is the ejahar and Ext. 5(1) is the signature
of O/C Dhekiajuli PS SI Ghana Kanta Baruah, I/C of Dhekiajuli PS.
Thereafter, he has visited the place of occurrence, jrecorded the
statement of complainant, recorded the statement of witnesses and
prepared the sketch map of the place of.occurrence. Ext. 7 is the
sketch map and Ext. 7(1) is his signature. The victim, aged about 5
years four months, was sent to (KCH for medical examination and
she was sent to the court-for recording her statement u/s 164
CR.P.C. Thereafter, on 13-04-2017 he has arrested the accused
Nelson Nag, S/O Sri Gagan Nag of village Gorpara, Dhekiajuli. Ext. 8
is the prayer made to the learned Magistrate to record the
statement of the-victim. After collecting the medical report and after
finding sufficient materials against the accused, he has filed the
chargesheet against the accused Nelson Nag. Ext. 9 is the
chargesheet and Ext. 9(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination he admitted that victim belongs to
Adibashi community. Case diary is silent whether the victim canb
speak or understand the Assamese language. At the time of
investigation, he has put some questions to the victim but she did
not give reply verbally but only nodding. At the time of examination
of the victim, victim’s mother Katina Bage was also present as
interpreter. He has not obtained permission from the learned court
to engage Katina Bage as interpreter. Witness Quari Bage stated
before him that Mohima told her that the accused forcefully opened

her panty.
Page 8 of 18

16. PW 8 Smt Bijaya Khakhlary stated that on 11-04-17 she was
posted as Judicial Magistrate, first Class, Tezpur. On that day in
reference to Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 269/17 under section 346 of
POCSO Act she had attempted to record the statement of witness
Mahima Bagge under section 164 Cr.P.C. Since she was 4-5 years
old, so she made enquiry by putting different questions. She
attempted to record the statement of victim after giving her
reflection period for four hours and she attempted to record the
statement of the victim ease and feel free. But inspite of her\best
effort and being asked repeatedly the victim did not state anything
about the incident. As the victim is a minor, the 1.0. was directed to
give her in zimma of her natural guardian on execution a bond of
Rs. 2,000/- with direction to produce her as and when required. Ext.
10 order dated 11-04-17, Ext. 10(1) is the signature of Addl. Chief
Judicial Magistrate. Ext. 10(2) is the order of the learned Chief
Judicial Magistrate. Ext. 10(3) is the”signature of learned Chief
Judicial Magistrate. Ext. 11 isya procedure of regarding statement.
Ext. 11(1) is her signatures. Ext. 11(2) is her order dated 11-04-17.
Ext. 11(3) is her signature.

17. | These much,is the evidence of prosecution

18. Defence =plea is total denial while his statement was
recorded-u/s.313 Cr.P.C.

19. < Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the
prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable
doubt. Firstly, the sole evidence of the victim cannot be relied on
as she could not able to speak anything before the learned
Magistrate while she was sent for recording her statement recorded
u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Secondly, the statement of other witnesses even
the PW 2, father and PW 3 the mother of the victim did not tally
with the statement of the victim. Thirdly, there are many
contradictions in the statements of the witnesses.

20. On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor has
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case against the

accused beyond any reasonable doubt, hence, accused is required
Page 9 of 18

to be convicted under the charged section. Learned Special PP also
submitted that in fact there is no enmity in between the accused
and the complainant. Even if there is any strange relation between
the accused and complainant, it would not be expected from the
complainant to involve his own minor daughter in such a hatred
cases.

Learned Special PP again submitted that PWs 2 and 3 are
the father and mother of the victim, therefore, question may arise
to their interestedness to succeed the case. To rely the interested
witnesses in convicting the accused, learned Special PP~Submitted
the case of Gali Venkataiah Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh
reported in 2008 Crl.L.J. 690. In regard to minor discrepancies,
learned Special PP also submitted the case law of»State of UP V.
Krishna Master & ors reported in 2010 Crl:L.J.3889.

21. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the
learned counsels of both the parties, Iam going to dispose of the
case as follows.

22. After going throughtheevidence of the aforesaid witnesses,
it is seen except the victim, there is no eye witness to the incident,
but after the incident, the victim informed about the incident to her
father (PW 2),.mother (PW 3) and also PW 4 Smt. Quari Bage which
are corroborated.

According to PW 2, father of the victim, stated that the
incident took place about three months ago one day at about 10
AM. On the day of incident, at the evening when he arrived home
after work, his wife Katina Bage informed him that his minor
daughter Miss X, aged about 5 years was raped by accused Nelson
Nag in their house. Then, his daughter Miss X informed him by
crying that accused Nelson committed misdeed to her by holding.
Then he searched the accused Nelson and met him on the road,
but, he fled away without responding him and in the next day, he
lodged the ejahar. Similarly PW 3 mother of the victim, stated that
on day of incident, at about 12 AM after doing her work of Job Card

she arrived at home. During that time her daughter Miss X told her
Page 10 of 18

by crying that accused committed misdeed to her by applying spit
on her private part. Accused is also applied his hand in her private
part. Her daughter also told her that the said incident took place at
their home. She also reported that for the act of the accused, she
had suffering pain on her private part. Then she informed the
matter to the village headman Bisnath. The gaonburha immediately
came to their home and saw her victim daughter. Though both the
PW 2 and 3 are respectively father and mother of the victim duly
cross-examined by the defence but the evidence as to. victim
reported to them by crying that accused committed misdeed to her
by applying spit on her private parts has remained unchallenged.

Supporting the evidence of PW 2 and PW 3, PW 4 Smt.
Quari Bage stated that while she returned to her-home, she saw
accused Nelson Nag in the house of the informant, then she asked
Nelson why he has been in the house of)complainant since there
were no other older person and there were only a little girl i.e. the
victim, then she saw victim -wasvin crying and she asked her why
she was crying, victim told her that accused Nelson opened her
panty. Though PW~4 has been duly cross-examined but the
evidence as to she\was reported by the victim that accused opened
her panty and\committed misdeed by applying spit on her private
parts hassremained unchallenged.

PW)5, the victim, who was examined after making enquiry
by ‘putting different questions to test as to her intelligence and
ability to give rational answers, she stated that at the relevant time
she was alone in the house at about 12 O’ clock accused came to
their house and opened her panty and applies spit on her private
parts. Her evidence is corroborated with the statement made before
the police u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Though she has been exposed to long
cross-examination, but the evidence as to accused came to their
house when she was alone and by opening her panty and spit on
her private parts has remained unchallenged.

23. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the

prosecution has failed to prove the age of the victim as they have
Page 11 of 18

not been seized any school certificate or Birth certificate of victim to
ascertain the age. Therefore, the case cannot be stated to be fallen
under POCSO Act.

24. It is true that in the present case there is no documents like
Birth certificate or age certificate or any certificate issued by the
School authority where the victim last studied or any certificate
issued by local Panchayat etc. to prove the victim that she was 5
years old at the time of incident. But the Doctor PW 1 who
examined the victim stated that the actual age of the victim is
below 10 years. The victim was examined before this court_on 13-
11-2017 where she stated that she was 5 years old. onthe day of
incident. That has not been challenged by defence at any point of
time. Therefore, it can safely be held that thevictim-was a minor.
25. In the case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State,
represented by the Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD)
No.98 of 2015, it was held that it is true that primary evidence to
prove the date of birth of thesindividual may be preferably the birth
certificate. But, it cannot<be said that in absence of birth certificate,
the date of birth cannot be proved. When the age of the individual
is not disputed, the.question of proving the same does not arise at
all. It is the Settled law that a fact in issue or any relevant fact or
any fact-relevant to the issue, which is disputed by the adverse
party alone, needs proof. If it is not disputed, there is no need to
lead.any evidence in proof of the said admitted fact.

26: In this case, the victim and her parents categorically stated
the age of the victim was about 5 years from the very beginning of
the case, at the time of commission of offence, besides during
cross-examination, the same has not been disputed at all by the
accused side. Thus, the evidence of victim and her parents in
respect of age of the victim remains unchallenged.

27. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the
material particulars with regard to the incident that on the day of
incident, while she was alone, at about 12 O’ clock accused came to

their house and opened her panty and applied spit on her private
Page 12 of 18

parts and thereby committed sexual assault to her. The victim also
made such statement before the I.0. while her statement was
recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Though the victim has been vigorously
cross-examined by the learned counsel for the accused but the
evidence as to at the relevant time accused came to their house and
opened her panty and applied spit on her private parts has
remained unchallenged. There is nothing in the evidence of the PWs
that the accused had any enmity or quarrel with the complainant to
file the case falsely against the accused. Therefore, defence of false
allegation is not made out.

28. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan Vs.
Babu Muna (2013) 4 SCC 206, has observed as under :-

“9. We do not have any slightest hesitationyin accepting the
broad submission of Mr. Jain that the conviction be based on the
sole testimony of the prosecutrix, it found.to be worthy of credence
and reliable and for that no corroboration is required. It has often
been said that oral testimony*can.be clarified into three categories,
namely, (i) wholly reliable, (ii) whole unreliable and (iii) neither
wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable. In case of wholly reliable
testimony of single. witness, the conviction can be found without
corroboration. ‘This principle applies with greater in terms in case
the nature of offence is such that it is committed in seclusion. In
case<prosecution is based on wholly unreliable testimony of single
witness but the court has no option to acquit the accused.”

29: Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of
accused is not leading any defence evidence would not have
mattered much as prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond
shadows of all reasonable doubts. However, in a case under POCSO
Act, the situation is not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to
refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

30.  U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for

certain offences and same reads as under:
Page 13 of 18

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is

prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such
person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be, unless the contrary is proved.
31. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the
Special Court shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable
mental state of the accused where culpable mental state is required
on the part of the accused. Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state —\(4) In any
prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall
presume that existence of such mental.state but it shall be a
defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such
mental state with respect to the/act charged as an offence in that
prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be

proved only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond
reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established
by a preponderance of probabilities.
32. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be
recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness or not? Such issue
was.dealt by the Hon’ble Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of
U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as
a determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On
the contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who
may testify — all persons shall be competent to testify unless the
Court considers that they are prevented from understanding the
questions put to them, or from giving rational answers to those
questions, by tender years, extreme old age, disease, whether of

body or mind, or any other cause of the same kind.”
Page 14 of 18

33. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she
has intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational
answers thereto. The evidence of a child witness is not required to
be rejected per se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers
such evidence with close scrutiny and only on being convinced
about the quality thereof and reliability can record conviction, based
thereon.

34. In Dattu’) Ramrao Sakhare — Vs -— State of
Maharashtra, (1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that a child witness
if found competent to depose to the facts and reliable;one such
evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other words, even in
the absence of oath the evidence of a child. witness can be
considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act provided, that such witness
is able to understand the questions and able to give rational answer
thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof
would depend upon the circumstances of each case. The only
precaution which the Court should bear in mind while assessing the
evidence of a child witness, is ‘that the witness must be a reliable
one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent
witness and there is.no likelihood of being tutored.

35. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs
— State-of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the
decision on the question whether the child witness has sufficient
intelligence primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his
manners, his apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and the
said Judge may resort to any examination which will tend to
disclose his capacity and intelligence as well as his understanding of
the obligation of an oath.

36. Inthe present case, at the time of examination of the victim,
some questions were put to her and she replied the same without
any hesitation, thereafter this court recorded her statement. Apart
from that, other witnesses including the parents of the victim i.e.
PW 2 and 3 also supported the evidence of PW 5 (victim).
Page 15 of 18

Here in the present case as discussed above, the evidence
as to on the day of incident while the victim was alone in their
house, accused came to their house, opened her panty, spitting on
her private parts are supported by reporting witnesses PW 2, 3 and
4.

37. On appreciation of the evidence given by the victim, her
parents and other independent witnesses i.e. PW 4 before whom
the victim stated about the incident and considering the aforesaid
facts, it comes to the conclusion that it is the accused who attempt
to commit sexual assault to the victim. The doctor clearly stated
that there is no any sign and symptoms of recent sexual intercourse
and no mark of violence was seen on her body as well as in her
private parts. Therefore, I think that the prosecution has failed to
prove the ingredients of section 8 of the POCSO Act.

38. In regard to the age of the victim,.it appears that as stated
above, the victim as well as parents of the victim, all were stated
that the victim is about 5«years of age. Similarly, the doctor
confirmed the age of the victim is below 10 years, but there is no
documentary proof as.to_her age. Under such circumstances, it can
be stated to be the offence committed by accused is attempted to
commit the offence of sexual assault.

39. Fherefore, accused Sri Nilsan @ Nelsan Nag is acquitted
fromthe alleged charge u/s 8 of the POCSO Act but accused Sri
Nilsan)@ Nelsan Nag is convicted u/s 18 of the POCSO Act.

40: The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he
praying for leniency stating that he has his wife and one minor son
and he is the only bread earner of his family, hence, praying for
leniency.

41. _ I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well as
learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur.

42. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court
should strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and

mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the
Page 16 of 18

crime and mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case,
so far as the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor girl
was sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only to the
body but also to the mind of not only to the victim but that of entire
family members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the
accused was hardly 35 years of age at the time of the incident. It is
not brought to the notice of this Court that before this incident, the
accused had committed any other offence. There is likelihood of his
reformation, but the statute u/s.18 of POCSO Act a punishment for any
description provided for the offence, for a term which may extend to
one-half of the imprisonment for life or, as the case.may*be, one-half
of the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence or with
fine or with both.
ORDER

43. I convict the accused Sri Nilsan.@ Nelsan Nag u/s. 18 of
POCSO Act and sentence him; to Rigorous Imprisonment for 12
(twelve) months and to pay a*fine.of Rs. 5000/- (Rupees five thousand
only) in default Rigorous Imprisonment for 2 (two) months.

It appears from _the record that the accused has been in
custody since 13-04-2017.

The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from
the period,of imprisonment, imposed on him.
44. < \As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement
of witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an
amount of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees twenty thousand) only is awarded as
compensation. The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority,
Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to give the compensation to the father of

the victim after proper enquiry.
Page 17 of 18

45. A copy of this Judgment be furnished to the accused free of
cost and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur,
Tezpur, as per provisions of law.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 20"
day of April, 2018

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika;,Steno
Po Sl Os oe be he

Page 18 of 18

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 7. Dr. Tutumoni Handique, M.O.
Prosecution Witness No.2 i Sri Nikodin Bage
Prosecution Witness No.3 ‘- Smti Katina Bage
Prosecution Witness No.4 te Smti Quari Bage
Prosecution Witness No.5 se Victim Miss X
Prosecution Witness No.6 - Smti Moddit Bage
Prosecution Witness No.7 ie Sri David Doimari, I.O.
Prosecution Witness No.8 ‘ Smti Bajay Khakhlary, Judl. Magistrate.
EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 1 - Medical report.
Exhibit 2 & 3 - X-ray and laboratory. reports,
Exhibit 4 :- Advice slip
Exhibit 5 :- Ejahar
Exhibit 7 :- Sketch map
Exhibit 8 :- Prayer for recording statement of the victim
Exhibit 9 :- Charge sheet
Exhibit 10 :- Order dated 11-04-17
Exhibit 10(1) :- signature of Addl. CJM, Sonitpur.
Exhibit 10(2) & (3) ~“«s- signatures of learned CJM, Sonitpur.
Exhibit 11 :-» Procedure of regarding statement
Exhibit 11(1) &(3) \:- signature of Judicial Magistrate
Exhibit 11(2) : - Order of Judicial Magistrate

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
