sv 2

Judge,
Dhemajl.

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: ShriS. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 11(DH)/ 2017.
U/S 376/511 of IPC R/W Sec.8 of POCSO Act.

The State of Assam
- Versus —
1. Shri Rabi @ Kalak Doley,
S/O Masa Doley
Vill. Bechamara,

P.S. Dhemaji,
Dist.- Dhemaji, ceeceeeeececeeeeesseeeeeeees Accused Person
Appearance:
Shri A. Fogla, Public Prosecutor — sa... se For the State
Shri N. Saikia, Advocate lh eee For the Accused
Date of prosecution evidence : 29-03-2019.
Date of argument : 23-04-2019.
Date of Judgment : 04-05-2019.
JUDGMENT
i The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 18-02-2015

complainant- Smt. Monumati Gohain lodged an ejahar with Dhemaji Police
Station alleging interalia that on 12-02-2015 at 7 AM while her minor
daughter Smti ‘Xx’ aged about 11 years was alone in their shop situated in
their gate-way, the accused grabbed her inside the shop and pressed her
breast and he then made her senseless. It is also alleged in the ejahar that
the accused gave her a ten rupee note and asked her not to disclose the fact
to anybody else. Hearing the cries of her daughter, her husband came out

from the house and tried to apprehend him. Then the accused fled away.

2 On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused person u/s 376/511 of IPC R/W Sec. 8 of the
POCSO Act.

. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 376/511 of IPC R/W Sec. 8 of POCSO Act
and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined two witnesses. At the
closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused person was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the defence
adduced no evidence in support of their case.

4. Point for determination :

(1) That you, on 12-02-2015 at about & AM in the morning at
Village —Raipur Ghuguha under Dhemaji Police Station, attempted to
commit rape on Smti ‘Xx’, a minor girl aged about 11 years, and
thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 376/511 of IPC.

(3) That you, on the same day, time and place you committed
sexual assault on Smti ‘X’, a minor girl aged about 11 years and
thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

5. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.
ist”

| Judes,
eel

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

6. PW1 Smt. ‘xX’ (victim girl) stated the complainant is her mother.
She knows the accused. The incident took place in the year 2015. There is a
shop adjacent to their house. Accused came to the shop and she also came
there to buy articles. While she was at the shop the accused was looking at
her indecent manner and she sensed foul play and then she left the place.
She told her mother about the accused being indecent to her and then her
mother lodged complaint. Police recorded her statement and also got her

medically examined.

In cross-examination PW2 stated that she has no objection if

the accused is acquitted in this case.

a PW2 Smt. Monumati Buragohain stated that she is the
complainant. She knows the accused. Victim ‘xX’ is her daughter. The incident
took place in the year 2015. There is a shop adjacent to their house. The
accused came to the shop and her daughter (victim) also came there to buy
articles. While she was at the shop the accused was looking at her indecent
manner and she sensed foul play and then she left the place. She (victim)
told her about the accused being indecent to her and then she lodged
complaint. Exhibit-1 is the ejahar and Exhibit-1(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination PW2 stated that she has no objection if
the accused is acquitted in this case.

Appreciation of evidence :

8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that
in this case the victim and the complainant-Monumati Buragohain were
examined as P.W-1 and PW2 respectively. In their evidence this two vital
witnesses stated that there is a shop adjacent to their house. The accused
came to the shop and the victim (PW1) also came there to buy articles. While
she (victim) was at the shop the accused was looking at her indecent manner
and she sensed foul play and then she left the place. She (victim) told her
mother (PW2) about the accused being indecent to her and then she lodged
complaint at the police station. In cross-examination, both PW1 and PW2
stated that they have no objection if the accused is acquitted in this case.
Prosecution side declined to examine the remaining witnesses on the ground
that examination of other witnesses will not improve the prosecution case at

all.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences. This is a case of no evidence. It is also seen from the
evidence of the PWs- 1 and 2 that both the parties have compromised the
case outside the Court and hence they have not deposed against the
accused. I find that the prosecution has totally failed to prove the charges
u/s 376/511 of IPC read with Sec.- 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused.

10. In view of the above, I find the accused-Rabi @ Kalak Doley
not guilty u/s 376/511 of the I.P.C. read with Section-8 of POCSO Act.
Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charges leveled against him. Set him at
liberty forthwith.

ais Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 4" day
of May/ 2019.

oy|s/20

(S. Das )
