1 eCourtIS copy

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,

SPECIAL CASE NO.18/2017
U/S.366 IPC, R/W Sec.4 of
POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM

Vs

Hafiz Anowar Hussain

S/O. Abdus Sabhan Sheikh
village Khankhowapara
P.S. Bilasipara

District- Dhubri (Assam)

beaenens Accused person.
Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghose, Special P.P

Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. A.S. Talukdar

Charge framed on 21.09.2017
Evidence recorded on 12.06.2019; 12.02.2020
Argument heard on 02.03.2020
Judgment pronounced on 02.03.2020
UDGMENT
ds The case of the prosecution is that on 06.07.2017 one xx, father

of the victim, lodged a writen FIR at Bagribari P.S alleging that accused
Haziz Anowar Hussain has abducted his daughter xxx, aged about 15
years and has taken her to Guwahati by train. On receipt of the FIR, a
case under 120B/366/34 IPC was registered and in the course of

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
2 eCourtIS copy

investigation, the victim girl was recovered. After completion of the
investigation, a charge sheet was laid against the accused Haziz Anowar
Hussain for commission of offence U/S 366 of IPC read with Section 4 of
the POCSO Act.

2. The accused person was summoned and on his appearance,
copies of the relevant documents were furnished to him. After hearing
both the sides charges U/S 366 of IPC , R/W Section 4 of the POCSO Act
was framed against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to trial. The case was thereafter transferred to this Court for
trial.

3. In the course of trial, prosecution examined 5 witnesses. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined U/S
313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and the accused
declined to adduce any evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused abducted the minor daughther of

the informant for purpose of sexual intercourse?

(ii) Whether the accused committed sexual intercourse with

the victim?
DECISION AND REASONS :

5. Pwl, xxx, the victim, deposed that tthe incident took place about
two years ago. At the time of incident she was reading in Hafizi
Chokapara Madrasa, Lakhiganj. She was staying in the Hafizi Chokapara
Madrasa Hostel. At that time, after her examination at Hafizi Madrasa
the vacation had started. After examination, she requested her teacher,
the accused, to take her to the house of her aunt at Hojai. When she
visited there, she had informed her mother but she had not informed her
father and hence when her father found her missing in her house he
lodged the FIR out of misunderstanding. Pw 1 deposed that when she
received phone call from her father she immeiately returned from Hojai.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy

In cross examaination, Pwl deposed that she got permission from her
mother before visiting the house of her aunt with the accused. She
deposed that accused did not kidnap her rather she requested him to
take her to the house of her aunt. She also deposed that accused did not
misbehave or molest her and took her to the house of her aunt at Hojai
nor did the accused commit rape on her.

6. Pw2 victim's father deposed that her daughter was staying at
Hafizi Chokapara Madrasa Hostel and after appearing her annual
examination she came home for her vacation. One day she was found
missing in his house and she could not be traced out inspite of vigorous
search in every possible place and hence he lodged the FIR. Later, his
wife told him that their daughter has gone with the accused to Hojai in
his cousin sister's house. Pw 2 deposed that he had the telephone
number of the accused and hence he immediatly contacted with him
and on the next day he brought his daughter.

7. Pw3 xxx victim's mother deposed that about 2 years back her
daughter was studying in Madrasa. She was then aged about 15 years.
One day her daughter informed her that she wants to visit her paternal
Aunt at Hojai and the accused will take her to Hojai. She gave the
permission and accordingly her daughter went to Hojai alongwith the
accused. Her husband was not aware of her daughter visit to Hojai and
accordingly he lodged an FIR. Later, she called her daughter and asked
her to return. Thereafter, her daughter returned from Hojai.

8. (At this stage, learned Special P.P sought leave of the Court to
declare the witness as_ hostile. Permission granted after due
consideration) In cross examination by Special PP, pw 3 deposed that at
about 1-30 AM she came to know that her daughter was missing. Her
husband lodged the FIR in the morning hours next day. After 3-4 days
they came to know that their daughter is at Hojai and police brought
her from Hojai.

9. In cross examination by defence, Pw3 has deposed that accused
did not abduct her daughter.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
4 eCourtIS copy

10. The evidence of Pw4 Md. Abu Bakkar Siddique and Pw5 Md. Noser
Ali have no bearing on the prosecution in view of the evidence tendered
by pwl, pw 2, and pw 3.

11. The evidence on record, does not reveal any ingredients of the
offence of kidnapping or for the offence of penetrative sexual assault.
The material prosecution witnesses have totally exonerated the accused
of any wrong doing. On these evidence, no conviction can be sustained.
Hence, the points for determination are answered in negative.

ORDER

Accused Hafiz Anowar Hussain is acquitted of the charges under
Section 366 of IPC , R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act and set at liberty
forthwith.

His bail bonds shall remain valid for six months.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this 2" day

of March,2020.

Dictated by
Special Judge Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-

Exhibit-1 Statement u/s 164 CrPC
Exhibit-2 FIR
2. Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1 Xxx victim
P.W.2 victim's father
P.W.3 victim's mother
P.W.4 Md. Abu Bakkar Siddique
P.W.5 Md. Noser Ali
4.Defence Witness Nil
5. Court witness Nil

Special Judge
Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
