 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 61 (T) of 2017

U/s 8 of the POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM — haa eaceceeeeeeeeeeeeeenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Arjun Chouhan,
S/o- Sri Surajbonshi Chouhan
R/o- Hijuguri Rajendra Nagar, Near Maszid
P.S- Tinsukia
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM ok... eeeeeeeeeeeeee eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,
Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the Complainant
Sri Munna Kr. Singh,

Advocate@  —______iinaecaeeceeceeeeeees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 21/08/2018

Date of Judgment: 28/08/2018

Jj} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. On the day of occurrence, the victim aged about 12/13
years old, who was a student of class VI was going to school in
the morning. She was accompanied by her friend Sima
Mahato. While both were walking towards school, the accused
appeared before them and he touched the chest of the victim
girl and left the place.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

2. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had sexually assaulted the victim?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

3. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as nine witnesses,
including the police investigating officer and the doctor, who
examined the victim girl during the period of investigation.
The defence plea is total denial and no evidence has been
adduced by the accused. | have carefully gone through the
prosecution evidences.

4. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up
the evidence of the victim. She has supported the prosecution
case in her evidence-in-chief. Her friend Sima Mahato has also
supported the prosecution allegation against the accused.
5. Now, | shall take up the evidence of Abdul Ansari. He
has stated that at the relevant time of occurrence, he was
standing infront of the tea shop of Ramjee. He has stated that
the accused was drunk and was limping. According to Abdul
Ansari, the accused was throwing abuses and some people
caught hold of him and beat him and later on handed him over
to the police.

6. The witness Lal Babu Rai has stated that at the
relevant time of occurrence, he was taking his child to school
and then he had seen that the victim was crying on the road.
He has stated that he asked the victim as to why she was
crying, but she did not give any answer. According to him,
another woman, who was standing nearby told him that one
body had molested the victim and that lady also showed him
the boy who allegedly molested the victim girl. Lal Babu Rai
straightway apprehended the boy and handed him over to the

police.

J. In this case, the father of the victim girl has been
examined and referred to as the PW1. He had lodged the
ejahar before police. He is not an eye witness to the
occurrence. Therefore, his evidence is irrelevant for the
present case. The other witnesses namely Smti Soni Devi and
Ramji Sah have deposed irrelevant evidence. The Police
Investigating Officer spoke about the investigation of the case.
The Doctor did not find any injury upon the person of the
victim girl and the medical report has been proved as Ext.4 by
the Dr. Bicki Sonar.

8. The victim and the other witnesses have been cross
examined by the defence counsel. The victim stated before
the defence counsel that the accused touched her breasts.
Ramjee Sah and his wife were present at the place of
occurrence at the relevant time of occurrence. The witness
Seema Mahato has stated before the defence counsel that at
the relevant time of occurrence, the accused seems to be
under the influence of liquor, as because he was limping at
that time.

9. The victim has referred to Ramjee Sah in her cross
examination. | have already stated that his evidence is
irrelevant for the present case, as because he never admitted
that he had seen the occurrence.

10. On scrupulous perusal of the prosecution evidence,
one thing clearly appears that at the relevant time of

occurrence, the accused was under the influence of liquor.

11. In a case u/s 29 of the POCSO Act, it has been stated
that where a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting
or attempting to commit any offence under sections 3,5,7 and
9 of the Act, this Special Court shall presume, that such
person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be unless contrary is proved. So, u/s
8 of the POCSO Act with which the accused is charged with
there is no such presumption. Further more, in a criminal case,
the intention of the accused to commit an offence is a primary
requirement for successful conviction. The words “sexual
assault” defined by the POCSO Act has been defined
under Section 7 of the Act as follows:

"Sexual Assault - Whoever, with sexual intent touches the
vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child
touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any
other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which
involves physical contact without penetration is said to
commit sexual assault."

12. In the instant case, there is evidence that at the
relevant time of occurrence, the accused was limping, as
because he was drunk at that time. | have found that the
prosecution evidence has failed to convince that the accused
had the intention to commit the offence of sexual assault upon
the victim girl. The evidence failed to inspire confidence to
that effect. Under the circumstance, | hereby hold that the
offence of sexual assault u/s 8 of the POCSO Act has not been
proved against the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

13. In the result, the accused Sri Arjun Chouhan is found
not guilty and accordingly the accused is acquitted from this

Case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
28th day of August, 2018.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_ EN DI _X

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

eo P se Pur Se MP

PW1
PW2
PW3
PW4
PW5
PW6
PW7
PW8
PW9

Sri Rajendra Mahato
Smti Joymala Kumari
Smti Seema Mahato
Sri Abdul Ansari

Dr. Bicki Sonar

Smti Soni Devi

Sri Lal Babu Ral

Sri Ramji Sah

Sri Paragjyoti Buragohain, S.I.

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

dis
2.
3
4.
5
6
7.
8.

DEFENCE WITNESS

Ext.1-

Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.

Ext.
Ext.

2-
3-

None.

Ejahar

Statement u/s 164 Cr.PC
Statement u/s 164 Cr.PC
Doctor's report
Radiological report

Certified extract copy of GDE No.
192 dated 11.9.17

Sketch map
Charge sheet

Special Judge

Tinsukia
