 

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE =o itiiit:::: CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

ial (P No. 2(S)/2017
U/S 376(2)(i) IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Vs.

SriNagen Barman nee Accused

PRESENT: Sri D.J. Mahanta,

Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.
ADVOCATES APPEARED:
For the State . Sri D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor
For the accused : Sti M. Islam, Ld. Advocate
Date of evidence : 06.04.17, 13.07.17, 18.11.17,

11.01.18, 02.05.18, 05.06.18
Date of Argument : 04.07.2018
Date of Judgment : 18.07.2018

JUDGMENT AND ORDER

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 22.12.2016, the
informant Naresh Adhikary lodged an FIR before Sidli P.S. alleging that on
21.12.2016 at about 12.00 noon, while Miss ‘*X’ (name is withheld), aged
about 10 years, the daughter of the informant went to the field for feeding
water to their goats, accused Nagen Barman pulled her towards jungle by
holding her hand and gagging and forcefully committed rape on her. At that
moment, one Keshab Basumatary at the spot and on seeing him, accused fled

away leaving the victim there.
Zi The matter was informed to the O/C, Sidli Police Station who
accordingly registered a case being Sidli P.S. Case No. 59/2016 U/S 376(2)(i)
IPC read with Section 8 of POCSO Act and entrusted A.S.I. Nirmal Chanda to
take pre-step and S.I. K. Simte was entrusted for completion of investigation
of the case. Accordingly, the I.O. arrested the accused, visited the place of
occurrence, drew sketch map of the P.O., recorded the statement of the
witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got recorded her
statement u/s 164 CrPC and after completion of investigation, submitted
charge-sheet against the accused person, namely, Nagen Barman U/S
376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 8 of POCSO Act. After receiving charge sheet,
copies of relevant documents were furnished to the accused person. Accused
person was produced before the court from jail. On perusal of entire materials
on record and hearing both sides and after having found a prima facie case,
my learned predecessor framed charge U/S 376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 4
of POCSO Act against accused Nagen Barman. Charge was read over and
explained to the accused person to which he denied to plead guilty. Later on,

accused was released on bail.

3: In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as
11 (eleven) witnesses including the I.0. and M.O.

4. Following witnesses are examined:-
(1) Victim as PW 1
(2) Sri Naresh Adhikary as PW 2
(3) Sri Keshab Basumatary as PW 3
(4) Smt. Sumitra Adhikary as PW 4
(5) Sri Binod Ray as PW 5
(6) Sri Bijoy Adhikary as PW 6
(7) Smt. Suku Bala Ray as PW 7
(8) Sri Hakim Brahma as PW 8
(9) ASI Nirmal Chanda as PW 9 (1.0.)
(10) SI Nikhil Ch. Ray as PW 10 (1.0.)
(11) Dr. Jili Basumatary as PW 11 (M.O.)
5. Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext.1.
FIR was exhibited as Ext.2, sketch map was exhibited as Ext.3, Charge-sheet
was exhibited as Ext.4 and medical report was exhibited as Ext.5.

6. Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.
7. Heard argument from both sides.
8. Now points for consideration:-

For the offence U/S 376(2)(i) of IPC

1. Whether on 21.12.2016, at about 12.00 noon at Pachim
Padmapur under Sidli Police Station, the accused committed
rape on Miss X’ (name is withheld), a woman under age of 16

years?

For the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act

2. Whether on the same date, time and place, the accused

committed penetrative sexual assault on Miss 'X’ (name is

ot withheld) (A minor girl under the age of 18 years)?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

9. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence

on record regarding both points simultaneously for the sake of convenience.

10. In support of the case, prosecution side examined all total 11
(eleven) witnesses including M.O. and I.0.

11. According to the FIR, on the date of occurrence, accused
committed sexual intercourse with the minor daughter of the informant when
she was going to the field to consume water for their goats. It is stated in the
FIR that at the time of occurrence, victim was reading in Class IV and her age

was about 10 years.
12. Naresh Adhikary is the informant, who heard about the incident
from his wife who was examined as PW 4. PW 2 deposed that on the date of
occurrence, his daughter was reading in Class IV in L.P. School. He was
returning from his work and on the way, he heard from the villagers that
accused committed sexual intercourse with his daughter. When he reached his
home, his wife, the PW 4 reported that accused committed sexual intercourse

when their daughter went to the nearby field to consume water to their goats.

13. PW 4 deposed that on the date of occurrence, she was in his
home. Then PW 3 reported her that accused committed sexual intercourse
with their minor daughter. According to PW 4, PW 3 further reported that he
noticed accused removing the wearing clothes of the victim. After sometime,
victim also came home and reported the same facts. Then she informed the
neighbours and ultimately when her husband, PW 2 came to their home, she
reported all these facts.

14. PW 1 is the victim. She deposed that on the date of occurrence,
she went to nearby field to consume water to their goats. At that time,
accused was also went to the field and he took her to nearby jungle and
removed her wearing panty and after that he committed sexual intercourse
with her. At that moment, PW 3 Keshab Basumatary came to the spot. When
the accused saw the PW 3, he fled away.

15. PW 3 deposed that on the date of occurrence, he went to the
field for preying rat. He saw that accused person and the victim were
removing wearing pants. Then he raised noise and accused fled away. He
came to the village and informed the matter to the mother of the victim, the
PW 4. This witness did not state that he noticed that accused had committed

sexual intercourse with the victim.

16. On the other hand, during the cross-examination, victim stated
that accused only put off her panty. He did not commit any sexual intercourse.
According to her, the village headman tutored her to state the fact that
accused had committed sexual intercourse with her. It is found from the
evidence of the PW 1 that when she was asked by the Court whether she was
tutored by her parents to depose falsely, she did not give any answer and
remained mum. So, it is found from the evidence of PW 1 and PW 3 that
accused put off the panty of the victim. Except this, nothing was happened.
The story narrated by PW 1 that accused committed sexual intercourse is
nothing but exaggeration of the matter as tutored by villagers.

17. PW 5, PW 6 and PW 7 came after the incident. They were
reported by the mother of the victim when they went to the house of the
informant and then they knew that accused committed sexual intercourse.

These witnesses had no specific knowledge about the incident.

18. PW 8 deposed that after knowing the incident, he asked the
victim about the actual fact. Then victim told him that accused tried to commit
sexual intercourse for which he put off her panty. After seeing PW 3, he fled
away. Accused was searched but he was not found in his home.

19. PW 11 is the Medical Officer, who examined the victim and sent
her for radiological examination and collected radiological examination report.
According to radiological report, right elbow joint — AP view, all epiphyses of
lower end of humerus except medial epicondyle are fused; medial epicondyle
is not fused. Lateral view — Epiphyses of radial head is fused, epiphysis of
olecranon process is fused. Right wrist joint — epiphyses of lower ends of
radius and ulna are not fused. Base of first metacarpal is not fused. All carpal
bones including pisiform — appeared. Right ankle joint — epiphyses of lower
end of tibia and fibula are not fused. Epiphysis of posterior surface of
calcaneum is not fused. Pelvis — epiphysis of femoral head and greater
trochanter are not fused. Epiphyses of iliac crest and ischial tuberosities are
not appeared. The Medical Officer opined that from the clinical and
radiological examination, age of the victim was above 11 years but below 15

years. There was no injury or violent mark seen on her body or private parts.

20. PW 9 and PW 10 are two Investigating Officers, who conducted
investigation and recorded the statement of the witnesses and searched the
accused. PW 9 deposed that he went to the house of the accused after the

incident but he was absent. He collected original certificate but after getting
photostat copy, same was returned to the father of the victim. As he did not
seize the original certificate, so no birth certificate was exhibited in support of
the age of the victim. As according to clinical and radiological examination,
age of the victim was found above 11 years and below 15 years, the
Investigating Officer submitted charge-sheet U/S 376(2)(i) IPC R/W Section 8
of POCSO Act.

21, After going through the entire evidence on record, it is found
that sexual intercourse is not proved, both from the ocular evidence as well
medical evidence. On the other hand, one fact is remained intact after
thorough cross-examination of the prosecution witnesses, particularly PW 1
and PW 3 that accused removed the panty of the victim. This fact was also
reported to PW 8 by the victim at the time of incident. Victim clearly stated
that except removal of panty, nothing was done by the accused. So,
ingredient of Section U/S 376(2)(i) IPC or Section 4 of POCSO Act is not
proved. On the other hand, removal of panty of the child attracts the
ingredient of Section 11 of POCSO Act.

22. In Section 11 of POCSO Act, sexual harassment is defined as
follows:

“11. Sexual harassment.— A person is said to commit sexual

harassment upon a child when such person with sexual intent.—

(i) utters any word or makes any sound, or makes any gesture or
exhibits any object or part of body with the intention that
such word or sound shall be heard, or such gesture or object
or part of body shall be seen by the child; or

(ii) | makes a child exhibit his body or any part of his body so as it

is seen by such person or any other person; or

(iii) | shows any object to a child in any form or media for
pornographic purposes; or
(iv) repeatedly or constantly follows or watches or contacts a child
either directly or through electronic, digital or any other
means; or

(v) threatens to use, in any form of media, a real or fabricated
depiction through electronic, film or digital or any other mode,
of any part of the body of the child or the involvement of the
child in a sexual act; or

(vi) entices a child for pornographic purposes or gives gratification
therefor.”

23; After going through the ingredient of Section 11, I have found
that in present case at hand, sub-section (ii) of Section 11 of POCSO Act is
attracted against the accused. Prosecution proved the case U/S 12 of POCSO
Act because it is the punitive section. As Section 12 of POCSO Act is lower in
degree if we compare with Section 4 of POCSO Act, so accused can be
convicted without framing separate charge. So, accused is found guilty U/S 12
of POCSO Act instead of Section 376(2)(i) IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

ORDER

24. Prosecution failed to prove the case U/S 376(2)(i) IPC R/W
Section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused. On the other hand, prosecution
proved the case U/S 12 of POCSO Act against the accused Nagen Barman
beyond all reasonable doubt. He is convicted U/S 12 of POCSO Act.

25. I have not considered the Section 4/5 of Probation of Offenders
Act because accused being a senior person committed the offence upon a
minor girl which cannot be tolerated in the eye of law. If he is allowed to be
scot-free, people will lose faith upon the Court upon justice delivery system.
Therefore, Section 4/5 of Probation of Offenders Act or Section 360 CrPC is
not applicable in this case.

26, Heard the accused and his engaged counsel on point of

sentence.
27. Accused pleaded mercy of the Court. According to him, this is
the first offence and he is the only bread earner of the family.

28. I have considered all these aspects and found that this is the
first offence committed by the accused as because no previous conviction of
the accused was proved by the prosecution during trial. It is also found that
accused is a senior person aged about 70 years. It is also found from the
record that accused had been languishing in jail for more than 4 (four)
months. So, he is sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for a period
which he had already undergone during the time of investigation and during
trial and he is further directed to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/- (Rupees Five
Thousand), in default, 2 (two) months S.I.

29. A copy of this Judgment shall be furnished to the accused on
free of cost. Another copy of this Judgment shall be given to the District
Magistrate, Chirang for information.

30. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 18" day
of July, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

Ohya Maal

REGAL UAAG
cn Eienaidieon

Dictated and corrected by ¢G
XX

(D.J. Mahanta)
SREGHIHGE?
7 ieieaininer

FORK KK
APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 - Victim

PW 2 — Sri Naresh Adhikary

PW 3 - Sri Keshab Basumatary
PW 4 — Smt. Sumitra Adhikary
PW 5 - Sri Binod Ray

PW 6 — Sri Bijoy Adhikary

PW 7 — Smt. Suku Bala Ray

PW 8 — Sri Hakim Brahma

PW 9 — ASI Nirmal Chanda (1.0.)
PW 10 — SI Nikhil Ch. Ray (1.0.)
PW 11 - Dr. Jili Basumatary (M.O.)

Exhibit (Prosecution):
Ext-1 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

Ext-2 FIR

Ext-3 Sketch map Medical report
Ext-4 Charge-sheet

Ext-5 Medical report

Material Exhibit (Prosecution):
Nil

Defence Witness:

Nil

Defence Exhibit:
Nil

gar”
(D.J. Mahanta)

SpE IUMBG::
Chirhityakaisigaon
