 

Page 1 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 57/2018

IN_THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI,
SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl POCSO Case No. 57/2018
u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

 

State of Assam
-VS-
Sri Nakul Bhuyan

veneee Accused person

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Committed by:
Learned SDJM(M), Biswanath Chariali

 

Advocates Appeared:-
For the prosecution: Ms. J. Kalita, learned Addl. P.P

For the defence __: Mr. T. Ahmed, learned Legal Aid Counsel.

Date of recording Evidence: 11.06.2019.

Date of Argument : 11.06.2019.

Date of Judgment : 11.06.2019.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 04.12.2018 the informant namely Sri Banat
Karmakar lodged an FIR with the OC, Gingia PS stating inter alia that on the previous day
at about 4 PM his 12-year-old daughter (name is withheld) was enticed by the accused by
giving her a biscuit and taken her to a place near Joyguru Temple, where he committed
“oo rape on her. The accused left his daughter at that place after commission of the offence.

Laer
0 , SN
eg® wo” Later, her mother searched her out from that place and could know about the incident from
ais oo
pec? the victim.
of
3

2. Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After
investigation the police submitted charge sheet against the accused person u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act. After production of the accused from custody before this court, as the accused
expressed his inability to engage a counsel of his choice to defend him, the learned legal

aid counsel was appointed to defend the accused at the expense of the state. After copies
Page 2 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 57/2018

of the relevant documents being furnished to the accused and upon hearing both the sides
on the point of charge, taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173 CrPC, as this court
found grounds for presuming that the accused had committed an offence u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act, the charge was accordingly framed against him, which on being read over and
explained, he pleaded not guilty.
3. During trial, the prosecution examined the informant and the alleged victim as PW1 and
PW2 respectively. Looking into the evidence as adduced by both these vital witnesses,
taking note of the medical examination of the victim, the prosecution declined to examine
the remaining witnesses contending that further evidence would not strengthen its case.
Taking note of the materials on record, the prosecution evidence was closed. As no
incriminating evidence was found against the accused, the examination u/s 313 CrPC was
SUN dispensed with. The case was thereafter, argued by both the sides.

  

vie Points for determination

 

- f m “Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed penetrative sexual
_ eo assault on the said victim who was below the age of 18 years?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
4. PW 1 is the informant Banat Karmakar. He stated that the incident took place about 6-7

months ago. According to him, on that day during day time, he was not present in his

house. His wife Banbashi Karmakar had gone to her work place and his daughter -victim

was alone in the house. He stated that on the next day of the incident his wife told him

that the accused had committed ‘kharap kam' on their daughter. He stated that his wife

could know about the incident from the villagers. Thereafter, the women folk of the

village caught the accused and handed him over to police. He thereafter, lodged the

FIR. He stated that when he later asked the victim about the incident, she denied of the

o ’ accused committing any 'kharap kam' on her. He stated that the police had got his

ae daughter medically examined. In his cross-examination, he stated that before lodging of

or op™ the FIR, he did not enquire about the incident from his daughter. He had lodged the FIR

only after the people started the beating the accused. He also stated that he lodged the
FIR out of misunderstanding.

5. PW 2 is the victim. She stated that the accused did not misbehave her and she does not
know as to why her father had lodged the FIR against the accused. She proved her
statement recorded u/s 164 CrPC as Ext. 1. In her cross-examination, she stated that
the accused rebuked her on that day as she was waiting on the road at noon. He had
asked him to go to her house and as she out of fear ran towards her house, the women
folk standing nearby thought otherwise.
 

Page 3 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 57/2018

. Thus from the evidence of both these vital witnesses, we do not find any incriminating
evidence against the accused on the offence charged against him. Further, as we take
judicial notice of the medical examination report of the victim, we find that the doctor
examining her did not find any injury over the private parts of the victim. Thus from the
evidence on record, we do not find any material against the accused to convict him on
the offence charged against him. The prosecution has failed to prove its case. As such, I
acquit the accused from the offence charged against him and set him at liberty
forthwith. As the accused has faced trial from custody, the Jail authorities be directed to
release the accused forthwith, if he is not required in any other case. A copy of the
judgment be forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec.
365 Cr.P.C. The case is disposed of. |
Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 11th day of June, 2019.

vy 9

(D. BORA)
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,

Biswa Mat ara PO TIt Pty Assam.

Biswanatn Cnariali, Sonitpur
 

Page 4 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 57/2018

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Sri Banat Karmakar
PW2- Victim

 

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Exhibit-1: Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC

Witnesses examined by the Defence:
None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:
None.

Lv

AY

Addl. dessions Judge
Riswanatn Chariali, Sonipur
