SplI.(POCSO) Case No.51/17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: CACHAR.

Spl.(POCSO) Case No.51 of 2017
(U/S 448 IPC/ Sec.8 of POCSO Act)

Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......cccccccsseeccescssssesteeesssstseees Complainant.
-Versus-
Sri Rabindra Das alias Rabi DaS.............ccccceeeeeee sees Accused
Charge framed On t-.........ceccecccesceeststeeeeeeeseeeeessesennees 27.04.18.
P.Ws. examined on:- 28.05.18, 11.6.18,24.07.18,7.08.18,21.8.18,
Argument heard OM :m .......cccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseseesesseeaes 26/8/19
Judgment pronounced and delivered ONn:-.........c:0.ceeee 9/9/19

Counsel Appeared:
For the State ‘Smti. Bithika Acharjee, Ld. Special PP

For the Accused ‘Mr. Debasish Sengupta, Ld.Legal Aid Counsel.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 28.8.17 the informant

Tumpa Sutradhar lodged an FIR with the I/C of Tarapur Outpost stating
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.51/17

that on 26.08.17 at about 12 noon while the victim, the daughter of the
informant was watching TV in absence all the other members of the family,
the accused also came to watch TV and thereafter the accused person
pressed the mouth of the victim by a pillow and removed her penty and
forcibly scuffled with her.

On receipt of the FIR, the same was forwarded to the Silchar
PS and a case was registered vide Silchar PS. Case No.2069/17 U/S 448
IPC read with Section 8 of POCSO Act. Police started investigation and
during the course of investigation the statement of the victim girl was
recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. The victim girl was also sent to SMCH, Silchar for
medical examination. The investigating officer visited the place of
occurrence and also recorded statement of the witnesses and
subsequently after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet
against accused Rabindra Das U/S 448 IPC read with Section 7 of POCSO
Act.

2. The offence of the case being exclusively triable by the Court of
Special Judge, this case was taken up for trial after filing of the charge
sheet. In due course, upon appearance of the accused and after hearing
both sides formal charge U/S Section 448 IPC and U/S 7 of POCSO Act
was framed by my Id. predecessor in office against the accused person.
The charges having been read over and explained the accused pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried. Subsequently, after hearing both sides the
charge is altered to Section 448 IPC and u/s 8 of POCSO Act. The contents
of charges having been read over and explained to the accused to which

the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

3. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.51/17

(i) Whether on 26.08.17 at about 12 noon’ the accused
committed house trespass by entering into the dwelling house of the
informant, as alleged ?

(ii) Whether the accused with sexual intent removed the panty
of the victim and sexually assaulted her, as alleged ?

4. From the prosecution side as many as 7 (seven) witnesses have
been examined including the M.O. The defence side has examined none.
Statement of the accused was recorded U/S 313 Cr.P.C. The defence plea is
total denial of the allegations. I have gone through the entire evidence on
record and have also heard the argument put forwarded by the learned
counsel for both the parties.

5. Let me now discuss the evidence below in details :

PW-1, Smti. Tumpa Sabdakar, who is the informant of this case
deposed in her deposition that on 26.08.17 when she returned from her
place of work she found some people of the locality assembled in her
house. Her eldest daughter Kaberi alias Tumpi sabdakar reported her that
accused Rabi Das at the time of occurrence pressed the mouth of her
younger sister Rimpi by a pillow and had done bad acts after putting off
her wearing underpant and the victim was then laid down in the bed and
she became unconscious. Then Kaberi raised hue and cry and people of
the locality assembled therein and someone sprinkled water on the face
of victim and she regained senses. She further deposed in her deposition
that at the time of occurrence her said daughter was a student of class III
and her husband who was a rickshaw puller by profession was not at home
at the time of occurrence. Thereafter PW.1 lodged the FIR vide Ext.1
wherein Ext.1(1) is her signature.

PW-1 in her cross examination disposed that at the time of

incident her daughter was alone inside the room and her other brothers
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.51/17

and sisters were playing outside. She further deposed that she did not see
the incident and she had heard about the same from her daughter. She
further stated in her cross examination that accused used to reside in a
rented house adjacent to their house.

6. PW.2 Sunati Sabdakar deposed in her evidence that about six
months back at noon the accused has done bad acts with her
granddaughter Rimpi. Hearing hue and cry PW.2 came to the place of
occurrence and also found people of the locality assembled there and she
found Rimpi in an unconscious state. Chumki, another granddaughter of
PW.2 reported him that accused had done bad acts with Rimpi in her
private parts and she became unconscious.

7. PW-2 in her cross examination stated that she did not see the
occurrence but she heard about it.

8. PW.3 Chandan Sabdakar, the husband of the informant
deposed in his evidence that on 26.08.17 at about 12 noon when he was
not present in his house the occurrence took place. When he returned after
10/20 minutes of the occurrence he found many people assembled there
and he also found Rimpi was lying on the bed in an unconscious state. The
eldest daughter of the PW.3 namely Chumki reported him that while Rimpi
was lying in the bed the accused Rabi Das pressed her mouth by a pillow
for doing bad acts with her.

9. PW-3 in his cross examination stated that he cannot say after
how many days of the incident police came to the place of occurrence, and
that he also cannot remember the date of the occurrence. PW.3 also
stated in his cross examination that he did not see the incident.

10. PW.4 Sujit Sabdakar deposed in his deposition that on 26.08.17
at about 1 p.m. when he returned home at noon the mother of Rimpi

reported him that the accused Rabi Das had done bad acts with Rimpi.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.51/17

PW.4 found Rimpi in an unconscious condition lying in the bed.

In his cross examination PW.4 stated that he does not have
any knowledge about the ailment of the victim before the occurrence.

11. PW.5.Smti Rimpi alias Sania Sabdakar stated in her deposition
that at the time of occurrence her parents went for their respective works
and when she was watching _T.V. lying in the bed the accused came and
put off her penty and pressed her mouth with a pillow and thereafter she
could not say anything and she regained her senses when somebody
sprinkled water on her face. At the time of occurrence there were none
other persons other than her in their house. After regaining her senses
she reported the matter to her maternal aunt first who told the same to
her mother and thereafter her mother caught the accused and tied him.

12. PW.5 stated in her cross examination that when the accused
pressed pillow on her mouth she became unconscious and thereafter she
could not say what had happened.

It was put to PW.5 during her cross examination by the
defence in the form of suggestion that she did not state to police that
accused put off her panty and when she raised alarm the accused pressed
pillow on her mouth, and that she regained senses when somebody
sprinkled water on her face and thereafter she told the matter to her
maternal aunt ‘pishi, and that her mother caught the accused and tied
him, to which the PW-5 denied.

13. PW.6, S.I. of police who is the IO and deposed in his deposition
that he had done the various routine works of investigation such as
visiting of place of occurrence, getting done medical examination of the
victim and recording of her statement u/s 164 CrPC., recording of
statement of the witnesses and ultimately the PW.6 submitted charge sheet

against the accused person after completion of investigation.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.51/17

In his cross examination the PW.6 stated that he went to the
place of occurrence on 28.08.17 at about 2-30 p.m. along with one staff
and parents of the victim girl but he did not meet the victim there and
that he heard the victim was taken to hospital on being escorted by police
woman. Thereafter, the victim and her mother came to police station to
lodge the complaint.

PW.6 in his cross examination stated that PW.1 did not state
before him that accused had pressed her mouth by pillow.

PW.6 also in his cross examination admitted that he did not

seize any material.
14. PW.7 Dr Monalisa Dev deposed in her deposition that on
28.08.17 on police requisition she examined victim Rimpi Sabdakar .The
victim and her mother gave history that at the relevant date and time
when the victim was alone at home one man named Rabidas came into
their house and dropped her into bed and opened her panty and forcefully
tried to have sexual intercourse and then ran away.

PW.7 further deposed in her deposition that in her opinion the
age of the individual is above seven years and below nine years, evidence
of recent sexual penetration not detected as on date of examination,
injury marks not detected on her person or genitals as on date of
examination and the HCG Test done in FSL Department was negative as on

date of examination. The defence declined to cross examine the PW.7

15. Appreciating the evidence on record it is found that PW.1 Smti
Tumpa Sabdakar, mother of the victim is the informant of the case and is a
reported witness. During her cross examination she specifically stated that
she did not see the incident but heard the same from her daughter. PW.2

Sunati Sabdakar is also a reported witness to whom her another
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.51/17

granddaughter Chumki had reported that accusd had done bad acts with
Rimpi in her private parts and she became unconscious. PW.2 also stated
that she found the victim in an unconscious state. Similarly PW.3 Chandan
Sabdakar, the father of the victim, was also a reported witness. He has
stated that his eldest daughter reported him that while the victim was lying
in the bed the accused Rabi Das pressed her mouth by a pillow for doing bad
acts with her. PW.4 Sujit Sabdakar is also a reported witness who has stated
that the mother of the victim i.e. PW.1 had reported him that the accused
had done bad acts with the victim. He also stated that he found the victim
in an unconscious condition lying in the bed. PW.6 is the IO who has
narrated various stage of investigation conducted by him. PW.7 is the doctor
who had examined the victim. PW.7 in her statement has stated that at the
time of examination the victim and her mother gave history that on the
relevant date and time when the victim was alone at home one man named
Rabidas came into their house and dropped her into bed and opened her
panty and forcefully tried to have sexual intercourse. Although PW.7 has
opined that there was no recent sexual intercourse or penetration or there
was no injury detected but she has opined the age of the victim as above

seven years and below nine years.

16. | From the above evidence on record it appears that none of the above
P.Ws_ had seen the actual occurrence rather it is evident from the evidence
of PWs.1,2,3 and 4 that the victim was found in an unconscious state.

PW.5, the victim has stated in her evidence that the at the time of
occurrence her parents went for their respective works and she was
watching TV lying on the bed and at that time accused came and put off her
panty and pressed her mouth with a pillow and thereafter she could not say

anything and she regained her senses when somebody sprinkled water on
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.51/17

her face. She also stated that after regaining her senses she reported the
matter to her maternal aunt first who told the same to her mother and
thereafter her mother caught the accused and tied him. During cross
examination she stated that when the accused pressed the pillow on her
mouth she became unconscious and thereafter she could not say what had
happened. PW.7, the doctor has also supported PW.5 to the effect that PW.5
and PW.1 had narrated the history to her at the time of examination.

17. It is evident from all the evidence of all the witnesses that the
victim was alone in her house at the relevant point of time and she was
found in an unconscious state, and the above evidence remains unrebutted.
The victim in her statement specifically stated that while she was lying on
the bed watching TV the accused came and removed her panty and pressed
her mouth with a pillow and she tried to raise alarm but the accused put the
pillow on her mouth and thereafter she could not say what had happened
and she regained her senses when somebody sprinkled water on her face.
18. Sexual assault is defined in Section 7 of the POCSO,ACT as:

Whoever with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast
of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of
such person or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent
Which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual
assault,

In the instant case the evidence of the victim that accused put off
her panty while she was alone in the house and lying on the bed watching
TV remains unrebutted and there is no reason to disbelieve the said
evidence of a girl below nine years of age. The said act is sufficient to prove
that the accused removed the panty of the victim with sexual intent which
involves physical contact without penetrations and tantamounts to sexual
assault as defined in Section 7 of the POCSO Act 2012. Although the
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.51/17

accused had suggested the victim that the accused never came to their
house and never committed the alleged offence but mere suggestion is not
sufficient to rebut the evidence of the victim to the effect that the accused
came to her house and committed offence as stated by her.

19. As per section 29 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act,2012 when a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or
attempting to commit any offence under sections 3,5,7 and 9 of this Act, the
Special Court shall presume , that such person has committed or abetted or
attempted to commit the offence as the case may be unless the contrary is
proved.

20. In the instant case, the allegation is that the accused has committed
the offence as defined u/s 7 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act,2012 punishable as per section 8 of the Act and the victim has
specifically stated and implicated the accused and hence it is lawful for this
court to presume that the accused has committed the offence and burden
lies upon the accused to rebut or to prove the contrary to which the accused
has failed.

21. In view of the above evidence on record, it appears that the
prosecution has able to prove both the offences i.e. section 448 of IPC and
Section 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,2012 against
the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

22. Accordingly, the accused is convicted for the offence u/s 448 of IPC
and section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,2012.
23. | Heard the accused on the f point of sentence to which he submitted
that he is having his wife and brother in his house and he is the only
earning member of his family and hence prayed for exonerating him.

24. Upon consideration of the nature and gravity of the offences, I

declined to provide the benefit of provisions of probation of offenders Act to
-10-
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.51/17

the convict.

25. Accordingly the convict accused is sentenced to undergo S.I. for a
period of 3(three) months for the offence u/s 448 of IPC and to undergo R.I.
for a period of 3(three) years and a fine of Rs.500/- i/d S.I. for 15 days for
the offence u/s 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act,2012.

26. — Both the sentences shall run concurrently.

27. The period already undergone in jail hajat be set off from the period
of sentence.

28. Furnish a free copy of this judgment to the convicted person forthwith.

29. Also transmit copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate,

Cachar, Silchar.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 9th day of

September, 2019.

Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by K.Bhattacharjee, Stenographer
-11-
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.51/17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 51 of 2017.

APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
P.W. 1 — Smti. Tumpa Sabdakar
PW. 2 — Sunati Sabdakar
PW. 3 — Chandan Sabdakar
P.W. 4 — Sujit Sabdakar Mona Konda.
PW. 5 - victim.
P.W. 6 - SI Sri P. Buongpui.
P.W. 7 - Dr. M.Dev.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — FIR.

Ext. 2 — Statement of victim.

Ext.3 - charge sheet

Ext.4 - Medical report.

Ext. 5 -requisition for X ray report
(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
