oo”

Judge,

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present:  ShriS. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 12(DH)/ 2018.

U/S 376 (3) of IPC R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

The State of Assam

- Versus —

1. Shri Satya Gogoi,
S/O Phanidhar Gogoi,
Vill. Burabhakat
P.S. Dhemaji,

Dist.- Dnemaji, ccc ecieeeeccceeceseeees Accused Person

Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,

Public Prosecutor For the State
ShriN. Saikia, Advocate =  ......... For the Accused
Date of prosecution evidence : 01-04-2019.

Date of argument : 25-04-2019.

Date of Judgment : 03-05-2019.
cial
Onell

, po

Judge,

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 16-08-2017
complainant- Shri Ramesh Gogoi lodged an ejahar with Dhemaji Police
Station alleging interalia that on 07-08-2017 at Burabhakat Gaon under
Dhemaji Police Station while his minor daughter Smt. ‘X’ ( name is withheld)
was alone at home, the accused Satya Gogoi came to his house with intent to
show his daughter cinema on mobile phone and committed rape on his
daughter, who was a student of Class-IX, inside the house. It is stated in the
ejaharat that at the time of occurrence the complainant was at Arunachal and

so it was late in filing the ejahar.

a On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused person u/s 376 of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of the POCSO
Act.

oi On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 376 (3) of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act
and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined two witnesses. At the
closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused person was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the defence
adduced no evidence in support of their case.

4. Point for determination :

(1) That you, on 07-08-2017 at Village —Burabhakat under
Dhemaji Police Station committed rape on Smti ‘X’, a minor girl aged
about 13 years, and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s
376 (3) of IPC.
p
ys

jai Judge
+O hemall

(3) That you, on the same day, time and place you
committed penetrative sexual assault on Smti ‘X’, a minor girl aged
about 13 years and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s
4 of POCSO Act.

5. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard

arguments of both sides.
Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

6. PW1 Smti ‘X’ stated that the Complainant is her father. She
knows the accused. The incident took place about 2 years back. Accused is
her relative, Accused frequently visited their house and she mixed-up with
him freely. But, she noticed that the accused started behaving with her in a
manner not expected from him (accused). So, she revealed the accused and
just drove out of her home. She told her parents about the behavior of the
accused. Accordingly, her father lodged complaint at the police station. After
filing of the case, the accused came to their house and he was repentant and
told her parents that in future he will not misbehave her. So, her parents
decided not to proceed in this case against the accused. Her parents also
gave her in marriage with another person.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that at present they are
maintaining good relation and she has no objection if the accused is acquitted
in this case.

Fe PW2 Shri Romesh Gogoi stated that he is the complainant. He
knows the accused. Victim Smt. ‘X’ is his daughter. The incident took place
about 2 years back. The accused is his relative. The accused frequently
visited their house and his daughter mixed-up with the accused freely. But,
she noticed that the accused started behaving with her in a manner not
expected of the accused. So, she revealed the accused and just drove out of
her home. She told her parents about the behavior of the accused.
Dh

p
ase

maj

Accordingly, her father lodged complaint at the police station. After filing of
the case, the accused came to their house and he was repentant and told
them that in future he will not misbehave his daughter. So, they decided not
to proceed in this case against the accused. They also gave their daughter in
marriage with another person. Exhibit-1 is the ejahar and Exhibit-1(1) is her

Signature.

In cross PW2 stated that at present they are maintaining good
relation and he has no objection if the accused is acquitted in this case.

Appreciation of evidence :
8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that

in this case the victim and the complainant-Romesh Gogoi were examined as
P.W-1 and PW2 respectively. In their evidence this two vital witnesses stated
that the accused is their relative. The accused frequently visited their house
and the victim ‘X’ mixed-up with the accused freely. But, she (victim) noticed
that the accused started behaving with her in a manner not expected of him
(accused). So, the victim revealed the accused and just drove out of her
home. She told her parents about the behavior of the accused. Accordingly,
her father (PW2) lodged complaint at the police station. After filing of the
case, the accused came to their house and he was repentant and told them
that in future he will not misbehave his daughter. So, they decided not to
proceed in this case against the accused. They also gave their daughter in
marriage with another person. In cross-examination, both PW1 and PW2
stated that they have no objection if the accused is acquitted in this case.
Prosecution side declined to examine the rernaining witnesses on the ground
that examination of other witnesses will not improve the prosecution case at
all.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is

no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the

alleged offences. This is a case of no evidence. It is also seen from the
evidence of the PWs- 1 and 2 that both the parties have compromised the
case outside the Court and hence they have not deposed against the
accused. I find that the prosecution has totally failed to prove the charges
u/s 376 (3) of IPC read with Sec.- 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused.

10. In view of the above, I find the accused-Satya Gogoi not
guilty u/s 376 (3) of the I.P.C. read with Section-4 of POCSO Act.
Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charges leveled against him. Set him at
liberty forthwith.

ii. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
i2. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 3" day
of May/ 2019
|? 19
ol
( S. Das )

Sragaboudne
