1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS,
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 11/2016 (Sessions
Case No. 14/2015) corresponding to GR
Case No. 677/2016 & Bokajan Police
Station Case No. 122/2016 under sections
448 of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Naren Boro
Name of informant/complainant:
Smti Jonmoni Kalita
Wife of Sri Pranjal Kalita
Village: Madhabpur
P.S: Bokajan
District: Karbi-Anglong
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Naren Boro
Son of Shri Indreswar Boro
Village: Madhabpur
P.S: Bokajan
District: Karbi Anglong.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor.
For the defence : Mrs A. Chakraborty.
Argument heard on : 17.07.2019.

Date (s) fixed for Judgment:: 25.07.2019/ 31.07.2019

UDGMENT
2|Page

Hs It is a case of illegal house trespass and
penetrative sexual assault alleged to have
committed by the accused person.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on
12.08.2016, the informant-Smti. Jonmoni_ Kalita
lodged a written ejahar with the O/C, Bokajan Police
Station stating inter alia that on the same day at
about 12 noon, her minor victim daughter aged 8
years was alone at her house. At that time, the
accused taking the advantage of absence of her
family members illegally entered into their house and
caused sexual harassment to her victim daughter. As
the victim made hue and cry, the accused fled away.
While the accused was asked as to why he did such
misdeed, he assaulted the informant. Later, she with
the help of villagers of Madhabpur Gaon
apprehended the accused, Shri Naren Boro and
handed him over to Bokajan PS. On receipt of the
ejahar, O/C Bokajan Police Station registered a case
vide its Police Station Case No.122/2016 under
sections 448/325 of IPC / 8 of the POCSO Act. On
completion of investigation, 1.0. submitted the
charge-sheet under sections 448/376(2)(i)/323 IPC
and 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused person.

3, The case was received on transfer and on
receipt it was renumbered. On completion § of
appearance of the accused person, copy was
furnished to him. Having very carefully gone through
the submissions duly advanced by the _ learned
lawyers appearing on behalf of both sides as well as
case dairy | found sufficient ground for presuming
that the accused person committed the offences
under sections 448 of IPC / 4 of the POCSO Act.
Accordingly, the charges were framed. The particular
3|Page

of the offences charged was duly read over and
explained to the accused person to which he pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During trial Prosecution has examined as many
as 8 (eight) witnesses including the investigating and
the medical officers. Statement of the accused
person was recorded under section 313 of CrPC.
Defence declined to adduce evidence. Plea of
defence is of total denial.

5 Points for determination are:

(i) Whether the accused person on 12.08.2016 at
12 noon at Madhabpur Gaon under Bokajan
Police Station illegally entered into the house
of the informant, Smti. Junmoni Kalita for
committing offence and that he _ thereby
committed an _ offence punishable under
section 448 of IPC?

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same
date, time and place caused penetrative
sexual assault upon the victim having age of 8
years who was the daughter of the informant
and that he thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 4 of the POCO Act?

6. Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal
arguments advanced by the learned counsels of both
sides as well as evidence on record. At the very
outset, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of
the accused person has contended that the
prosecution has miserably failed prove the case
against the accused person. On the other hand, the
learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the
4|Page

aforesaid submission has submitted that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case
against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions, it
would be appropriate to give a glance at evidence
record.

ds PW-1 is Smti. Jonmoni Kalita who has deposed in
his evidence that she is the informant of this case
and the victim is her daughter. She knows the
accused person. The incident occurred about one
year back at 12 noon and on that day, she went to
Bank. She came back from the bank at 2 PM. On her
arrival, she found her daughter weeping by sitting on
a chair. On query for weeping, her daughter replied
that when she was coming into the room after bath,
the accused drew her to the bed and removing her
underwear tried to penetrate his penis into her
vagina. When she told the accused that she would
narrate everything to her(PW-1, the accused left the
place. The accused came from the backside of their
house by breaking the bamboo fencing. At the time
of her going to bank, she locked the gate, but did not
lock the door of their house. There was a small
entrance provision near the gate whereby minors can
move through it. At the time of going to bank, she
did not lock the door of the house only for the reason
that if delay occurs in returning home, her daughter
can enter into the house. Normally, her daughter
returns home at 2 PM but on the day of occurrence,
she came at 12 noon. She informed the matter to the
local people and on being asked, the accused
confessed the fact as narrated by the victim. Then
she lodged the ejahar at the police station. At the
time of occurrence, the age of the victim girl was 8
5|Page

years. Police got the victim medically examined and
recorded her statement in the Court. The Court
handed over the victim to her.

Bi. PW-2 is the victim who has testified in the
evidence that she knows the accused person. On the
day of occurrence, their classes continued till 12
noon and hence, she came back home. She did not
find her mother at home at the time of her arrival.
While she made preparation for bathing at the
courtyard, the accused came to their house from rear
side for return of the tea cups which were sent to the
Namghar. The accused lifted her from the courtyard
and took her to a bed in their house and made laid
down her there on. Then the accused removed his
pant and he got his penis touched in her vagina. The
accused kissed on her chest and lips. She told him
that she would inform everything to her parents, but
the accused told her that these are not to be
reported. As the accused again kissed by lying her
down on the bed, she started crying. In such
situation, the accused persuaded her that he would
give her biscuit and money. The accused further told
her that this matter need not be narrated before
others because he would marry her. Thereafter, the
accused went out leaving her there. On return of her
mother, she informed the incident to her. At the time
of occurrence, her father was staying in Kerela. Police
got her medically examined and recorded her
statement in the Court. Ext.1 is her statement and
Ext.1(1) and 1(2) are her signatures.

9. PW-3 is Dr Jacqueline Teronpi who stated that on
13.8.2016 while she was working as S.D.M. & H.O. at
Diphu Civil Hospital, she examines the victim in
connection with Bokajan Police Station Case
6|Page

No.122/2016 under sections 448/325 of IPC and 8 of
the POCSO Act. On examination, she found-hymen
torn and congested, labia minora bruised, fourchette
congested and the vagina was tendered to touch.
Ext.1 is the medical report and Ext.1(1) is her
signature. As per the radiology evidence and expert
opinion, the age of the victim girl was below 14 yeas
approximate and between 9 to 10 years.

10. PW-4 is Smti Manju Das who has deposed that
she knows the informant and the accused person.
The occurrence took place in the year 2016. On the
day of occurrence, the accused was working at the
Namghar with another person. As the co-workers of
the accused went for taking meal, he was alone at
the Namghar. The house of the victim is situated
near his house. After a while, she saw the accused
standing beside the victim. Then she went to her
kitchen. At that time, nobody was present at the
house of the victim except her. After sometime, the
mother of the victim came to her house and asked
her if someone came to her house. She told the fact
of arrival of the accused to her house. Thereafter,
mother of the victim told her that in absence of other
family members in their house during noon hours,
the accused came there and forcefully made the
victim compelled to remove her underwear and tried
to rape her. As per version of the mother of the
victim, when the victim started making hue and cry,
the accused fled away. Mother of the victim lodged a
case at the police station and she came to know that
the police arrested the accused person.

11.  PW-5 is Smti Beauty Borbora Saikia who has
deposed in his deposition that she knows the
informant, the accused and the victim. The
7|Page

occurrence took place in the year 2016. On the day
of occurrence during noon hours, the informant came
to her house and informed that when the victim
stayed alone at their house, the accused came there
and forcibly removed the underwear of the victim
and he put his finger into her vagina. The accused
also tried to rape her. Being frightened, the victim
started shouting and the accused fled away.
Thereafter, the informant lodged the ejahar at the
police station. Later on, the villagers apprehended
the accused and handed him over to police. At the
time of occurrence, the victim was 10(ten) years old.

12. | PW-6 is Shri Hema Gagoi who has stated in his
evidence that he knows the informant and the
accused person. The incident took place in the month
of January, 2016. On the day of occurrence, he and
the accused were working in the Namghar. At about
12 noon, they came out of the Namghar together and
he went for taking meal and the accused went to
another direction. At about 4/5 PM, he again came to
the Namghar for performing some _ religious
formalities and in front of the Namghar, he saw the
villagers beating the accused person. On being
asked, the people gathered told him that the accused
had tried to rape the victim taking the advantage of
absence of her family members, but as the victim
made noise, the accused fled away. Knowing this
incident, the villagers called the accused and
apprehended him. The house of the victim stands
near the Namghar. At that time, the victim was 9
years old. Later on, the villagers informed the police
about the incident and accordingly police came there
and took the accused to the police station.
8|Page

13. | PW-7 is Dr Dimbeswar Bharali who told that on
30.08.2016 while he was serving as C.M.O. & H.O. at
Bokajan CHC, he examined Smti. Junmoni Kalita
escorted by Bokajan Police and found tender bruise
area over the neck. Ext.2 is the medical report and
Ext.2(1) is his signature.

14.  PW-8 is Shri Nripen Saikia who investigated the
case of Bokajan PS No. 122/2016 lodged by the
informant. During investigation, he went to the place
of occurrence, drew the sketch map and recorded the
statements of the witnesses. He arrested the
accused person. He got the victim medically
examined in the hospital and her statement recorded
in the Court. He also got the accused medically
examined. He collected the medical report of the
victim and statement of the victim recorded in the
Court. Amidst the investigation, he prayed before the
Court for giving permission to add the section 376(2)
(1) of IPC with the case. On completion § of
investigation, he found sufficient materials and
accordingly, he submitted charge-sheet under
section 448/376(2)(1)/323 and 8 of the POCSO Act
against the accused person. Ext.4 is ejahar, Ext.5 is
sketch map and Ext.6 is charge-sheet. Ext.5(1) and
6(1) are his signature.

15. At first let see whether the victim was child at
the time of occurrence. PW-1 is the mother of the
victim and the informant who can be considered to
be best person who can say actual age of the victim
at the occurrence. According to her, at the time of
occurrence the victim was 8 years. PW-3 is the
medical officer who examined the victim on 13-08-
2016. According to him the victim was 14 years
approximate between 9 to 10 years. According to
9|Page

PW-5, the victim was 10 years at the time of
occurrence. According to PW-6, the victim was 9
years old at the time of occurrence. There is no
evidence on record showing that any _ school
certificate containing date of birth was seized. The
defence has not disputed the evidence of the
medical officer marked as PW-3. Considering all
aspects | find no way to discard evidence of the
medical evidence marked as PW-3 so far age of the
victim is concerned coupled with evidence of PW-1,
PW-5 and PW-6. Now | have come to conclusion that
at the time of occurrence the victim was about 10
years old. According to the section 2(d) of the POCSO
Act, a child is a person who has not completed 18
years. Hence it can be said that at the time of

occurrence, the victim was a child.

16. The prosecution version is that the accused
entered into house campus of the informant while
the victim was alone. The accused took the victim
inside the house and made her laid down on the bed
and thereafter made attempt to penetrate his penis
into her vagina after removing her wearing. In such
a case evidence of victim considered to be most vital
and important. It is found that the victim marked as
PW-2 flawlessly stated in her testimony that on the
day of the occurrence at 12 Noon she came home
back from the school while none was present in the
house. Thereafter while she took preparation for
taking bath in the courtyard the accused entered into
their campus to returned cup plate by breaking
bamboo fencing put up in the boundary. She has
further stated that entering into their house campus
the accused lifted her inside the house and made her
laid down in the bed. Thereafter the accused got his
10|Page

penis touched her in her vagina after removing her
pent and kissed her on chest and lips. She has also
stated that when her mother came to the house she
informed her about the occurrence and that Police
got her statement recorded in the Court. Ext-1 is the
said statement.

17. —Ext-1 gives a different story as to how the victim
was taken inside the house from the courtyard.
However it shows that the accused got his penis
touched in the vagina of the victim. It also shows
that the accused touched the vagina of the victim
with his finger and kissed her breast and face. PW-1
is the informant cum mother of the victim to whom
the victim first communicated about the occurrence
immediate after the occurrence. Her evidence shows
that the accused took the victim from the courtyard
while she was taking bath and made her laid down in
a bed and tried to penetrate his penis into her
vagina. PW-4 is Smti. Monju Das who resides near the
house of the informant who has stated that she saw
the accused entering into the house campus of the
informant. She has further stated that informant
informed her that the accused entering into their
house made attempt to make sexual intercourse with
the victim. PW-5 also hearsay witness who has stated
in her evidence that the informant informed her that
the accused made attempt to make sexual
intercourse with the victim and inserted his finger
into her vagina. PW-6 is also a hearsay witness who
has stated in his evidence that a group of persons
who were assaulting the accused informed him that
the accused made attempt to make sexual

intercourse with the victim.
11|Page

18. PW-6 is the medical officer. Ext-2 is the Medical
report which shows that on examination of the
informant PW-6 found tender bruise over the neck
only. PW-3 is the medical officer who examined the
victim. Her evidence shows that on examination of
the victim she found her hymen being torn and
congested. Ext-1 is the medical report of the victim.
The medical report marked as Ext-1 also shows that
the vagina of the victim was touched.

19.  PW-8 is the investigation officer who has stated
that during investigation he got the statement of the
victim recorded in the court and the victim medically
examined. He has also stated that he visited the PO
and prepared the sketch map of the PO. Ext-5 is the
sketch map of the PO. Ext-5 shows that the house of
the informant situated in between the Namghar and
the house of Prafulla Das. PW-4 is the wife of the said
Prafulla Das. Hence it cannot be disbelieve that PW-4
saw the accused entering into the house campus of

the informant.

20. The accused has stated in his statement
recorded under section 313 of the CrPC that he left
the Namghar with Hemo Gogoi and that while he was
returning the cups to the house of the informant said
Hemo Gogoi was with him. Evidence of Hemo Gogol
marked as PW-6 is totally silent that he was with the
accused person while the accused person was
returning the cups to the house of the informant. The
cross examination of PW-6 shows that the accused
after leaving the Namghar walked with him upto his
house(House of the Hemo Gogoi).

21. #Of-course there are some discrepancies in the
evidences of PW-1, the informant and PW-2, the
12|Page

victim. Learned defence counsel has drawn my
attention to the cross examination of PW-6 and
submitted that the cross examination of PW-6
suggests that the accused was no way involved in
the alleged occurrence. | have very carefully gone
through the cross examination of PW-6 and come to
conclusion that on the basis of contention of cross
examination of PW-6 it cannot be said that it was not
impossible for the accused to entered into the house
campus of the informant and committed sexual
assault as stated by the victim. | also find on the
materials points there is no contradiction and
discrepancies in the evidence on record.

22. Itis evident that the accused is the co-villager of
the informant and used to visit the house of the
informant sometimes. Defence has not disputed the
fact that at the time of occurrence the informant was
not in the house and the victim was in the house
alone. There is a no evidence on record showing that
there was a any enmity between the informant and
the accused. The fact itself shows that the accused
tried to take advantage finding the victim in the
house alone. In view of the discussion made above, |
find no way to disbelieve evidence of victim
supported by Medical evidence and other oral
evidence. Accordingly | have found that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case
under sections 448 of the IPC/8 of the POCSO Act.

ORDER

23. In the result, | find the accused Sri Naren Boro
guilty under sections 448 of the IPC/8 of the POCSO
Act and accordingly he is convicted.
13|Page

24. On the point of sentence the accused person is
heard and to that effect his statement is recorded.
Learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the accused
person has contended that it is a fit case wherein the
court can extend leniency to the accused person. On
the other hand, learned public prosecutor has
submitted that the accused needs to be punished as
per provision of Law. Accused is a married person
having 2 children. It appears from the statement of
the accused made before the court that he is the
only earning member of his family and that he was
not convicted earlier by the court of Law. Accused is
a fully matured and grown up person and he
committed the offence with cool brain. Considering
nature of the case, | am of the opinion that the
accused needs to be punished exemplary. However, |
do hereby Order the accused Sri Naren Boro to
undergo RI of 6 months for the section 448 of the IPC
and RI of 4 years and to pay fine of Rs. 1000/- i/d SI
of 1 months for the section 8 of the POCSO Act. Set
off the earlier detention period if any. The sentences
will run concurrently. Let certified copies of the
Judgment and Order be supplied to the accused
persons at free of cost. Also send a copy of the
Judgment to the learned District Magistrate, Karbi
Anglong, Diphu in terms of the section 365 of the
CrPC.

25. No order as_ regard recommendation for
compensation as laid down under section 357 A of
the CrPC is passed.

26. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

27. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on
this 31% July, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.
14|Page

Dictated and Corrected by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed,
AJS)
Special Judge Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi
Anglong,

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Smti Jonmoni Kalita

PW2- Victim

PW3- Dr Jacqueline Teronpi

PW4- Smti Manju Das

PW5- Smti Beauty Borbora Saikia
PW6- Shri Hema Gagoi

PW7- Dr Dimbeswar Bharali
PW8- Shri Nripen Saikia

Defence Witnesses: Nil
Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Statement of the victim
Ext.1- medical report

Ext.2- Another medical report
Ext.5- sketch map

Ext.6- Charge Sheet

Defence Exhibited: Nil
15|Page

Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam
