 

Present: Smti S. Bhuyan
Special Judge
Nalbari.

Spl (P) CASE NO: 24/18
u/s- 366 IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act.

State of ASSaM ....eseseeeeee. Complainant
-V/s-

Jiten Das @ Jitendra Das

S/O-Sri Amulya Das

R/o, Vill-Bahari Ganak Para

PS-Tarabari, Dist-Barpeta ..sssssseseeees Accused person
Appearance :-

For the prosecution : Mr. K. Sarma, Special PP
For the defence : Mr. S. Sarma, Advocate.

Date of institution of the case : 05/05/18

Date of framing charge : 06/02/19
Date of evidence : 07/03/19, 25/04/19, 27/05/19
Statement of accused recorded : 21/06/19
Date of Argument : 16/07/19, 17/07/19, 30/07/19
Judgment Delivered : 02/08/19

UDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution as revealed from the ejahar

lodged by PW-1 Jaydeb Barman s/o-Late Arun Barman of village
Belsor Milanpara, P.S.-Belsor, District- Nalbari, is that on 01/05/18
at about 4 pm his minor daughter Miss 'X' (name changed) was
kidnapped by accused Jiten Das who worked in the shop of one
Girish Medhi. Hence, the case.

2. O/C Belsor PS on receipt of the ejahar registered Belsor PS
case vide Belsor PS case No. 84/18 u/s-366 IPC adding section-4 of

Spl (P) Case No:24/18 1 of 11
the POCSO Act and lynched investigation. During investigation, lO
of the case visit place of occurrence, drawn sketch map of the
place of occurrence, recorded statement of the informant and
other witnesses, brought victim and accused from Gogamukh,
recorded statement of the victim u/s 161 Cr.P.C, produced her at
SMK civil Hospital, Nalbari for medical examination and then
produced her before the court to record her statement u/s-164
Cr.P.C and the arrested accused, produced him before the court
and after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet
against the accused Jitendra Das @ Jiten Das u/s-366 IPC and
section 4 of the POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the charge sheet my then learned predecessor
took cognizance and issued process to the accused and after
furnishing copies to the accused, framed charge u/s-366 IPC read
with section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused Jiten Das and
when charges are read over and explained to the accused he
pleaded not guilty and stood for trial.

4. In order to prove the charge against the accused person,
prosecution altogether adduces evidence of 7 no’s of witnesses
including informant, victims, 1/O and M/O of the case and exhibited
6 no’s of documents. PW-1, Jaydeb Barman (informant), PW-2,
Girish Medhi, PW-3, Sabitri Sen Deka, PW-4, Minati Sen Deka, PW-5
Miss 'X' (victim), PW-6, Bandhuram Baishya (I/O) and PW-7 Dr.
Urmi Devi Choudhury (M/O). Ext-1, Ejahar, Ext-2, statement of
victim recorded u/s-164 Cr.P.C, Ext-3 charge sheet, Ext-4 Sketch
Map of the place of occurrence, Ext-5, Medical Report, Ext-6 X-ray
report. After closures of the evidence of the prosecution,
statement of the accused Jiten Das @ Jitendra Das recorded u/s-
313 Cr.P.C and accused plea is total denial however he declined to
adduce evidence in support of his plea of denial.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATIONS ARE:-

(i) Whether victim girl Miss X was under the age of 18 years and
she was minor on the date of incident?

Spl (P) Case No:24/18 2 of 11
(ii) Whether accused Jiten Das @ Jitendra Das kidnapped Miss 'X'
and induces and compelled her to go with him to marry her
against her will and consent and with that intent she is forced or
seduced to illicit intercourse with him ?

(ii) Whether accused committed penetrative sexual assault upon
Miss 'X', as defined under section 3 of the POCSO Act and she is
under the age of 18 years on the date of incident?

Argument

5. | have heard argument of learned counsel for both sides.
Learned Special Public Prosecutor submitted that victim is a minor
girl and prosecution beyond all reasonable doubt fairly able to
establish the case against the accused.

6. Learned defence counsel made submission that there is a
love affair between the accused and alleged victim girl and this
fact is admitted by victim in her statement recorded u/s-164 and
u/s-161 CrPC and before the court. No force inducement took
place, she was not married. There is difference in place of
recovery stated by victim and other PWs. No age proof documents
submitted though victim claimed that she was school going
student and radiological age is not the conclusive proof of the age
of the victim when there is error of margin the radiological age
and medical evidence does not show recent sexual intercourse so
prosecution charge against the accused does not stand.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

 

7. The prosecution charge framed against the accused is u/s-
366 IPC and section 4 of the POCSO act. To prove the charge u/s-
366 IPC prosecution must bring on record the ingredients that
there is a kidnapping and or abduction of a woman, second such
kidnapping and abduction is done with intent that said woman
would be compelled to marry a person against her will and
consent and third the woman in order may be forced or seduced to
illicit intercourse and to prove the charge of section 4 of the
POCSO Act, prosecution must bring on record that the victim girl is

minor under the age of 18 years she has been subjected to
Spl (P) Case No:24/18 3 of 11
penetrative sexual assault as defined in section 3 of the POCSO
Act. Thus to establish the charge of section 4 of the POCSO Act,
prosecution must bring home record the ingredient of section 3 of
the POCSO Act. That is to say:

8. Section 3 of the POCSO Act says: “A person is said to
commit “penetrative sexual assault” if -

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth,
urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not
being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of the body
of the child or makes the child to do so with him or any other
person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the
child or makes the child to do so to such person or any other

person.

9. Now, let me discuss the evidence on record to arrive at the
just decision of the case.

10.  PW-1, Jaydeb Barman lodged the ejahar. It is alleged in the
ejahar that on 01/05/18, at about 4 pm, his daughter Miss 'X'
(name changed) student of class IX when goes to attend her
tuition class, accused Jiten Das kidnapped her and accused was
working in a shop of Girish Medhi. Ext-1 is the ejahar. Ext-1 is
lodged on 04/05/18 before O/C, Belsor PS.

11. PW-1 in his evidence deposed in the month of May, 2018
when he came back home, his wife told him that at 4 pm their
daughter Miss 'X' went to attend her tuition class but she did not
return home till 6 pm and during search he could come to know
from one of the friend of his daughter that accused Jiten Das
kidnapped his daughter Miss 'X'. PW-1 further stated his daughter

Spl (P) Case No:24/18 4 of 11
recovered at Gogamukh PS and police informed him and from
Gogamukh he brought his daughter to Belsor PS.

12. In cross stated he visits the house of accused Jiten Das
situated at Chenga Bahari with Girish Medhi and Bhakat in the
vehicle of Bhakat. He stated along with the ejahar he submitted
one copy of the age certificate of his daughter. He denied love
affairs between accused and his daughter and that his daughter
eloped with the accused.

13. PW-2 Girish Medhi deposed accused worked as worker at his
shop and accused left the work 2 days before the incident and on
the date of occurrence informant came to his house and asked him
about the accused and hid daughter. Thereafter he visited the
gaonburah of Chenga village along with the informant and then
visit the house of accused along with gaonburah but did not find
the accused at his house. His further evidence is that after 1-2
months of the incident victim along with accused recovered by the
police of Gogamukh PS. In cross he stated he visit the house of
accused along with informant and 2 son of informant in the vehicle
of Mrinmoy.

14. PW-3 Sabitri Sen Deka, PW-4 Minati Sen Deka deposed they
know informant Jaydeb, his daughter Miss 'X' and accused. PW-3
and PW-4 deposed they heard that Miss 'X' was untraced from her
house. PW-3 further deposed at the time of incident Miss 'X' was
student of class X. Both the witness stated that they only heard
about the missing of the girl. They did not disclose who was that
person kidnapped the girl. They did not make statement that they
heard the incident either from the parents of the girl or from the
victim girl and therefore, their evidence amounted to hearsay
evidence. They even not whispered that accused had kidnap the
PW-5, Miss X so thus, testimonies of PW-3 and PW-4 does not
helped the prosecution case as no _ incriminating material
transpires against the accused from their piece of evidence.

15.  PW-5, is the victim girl. Her evidence is that informant is her
father and she met and introduce with accused when accused was

Spl (P) Case No:24/18 5 of 11
working near their house and subsequently said meeting turned
into love affairs that continued for 5 months. Thereafter, on
01/05/18, both went for outing at Barpeta riding on the bike of
accused, from Barpeta they went to the house of accused situated
at Chenga. At that time none was present in the house of accused.
They spent one night at Barpeta, than they went to Mandia in the
house of elder sister of accused where they stayed for 3 days.
After that accused put vermilion on her forehead where from they
went to Dhemaji and stayed one month in a house of relative of
the accused. From Dhemaji they came to Lakhimpur, and at
Lakhimpu they stayed at one of the friend's house of accused and
at this place they have physical relation. While they were present
in the house of the friend of accused for about 15 days police
picked them and brought them to Belsor PS. Police produced her
before the doctor for medical examination and_ thereafter
produced before the court where she make statement before the
magistrate. Ext-2 is her statement, Ext-2(1) to Ext-2(3) are her
Signatures. In cross, she stated that she has no knowledge if
document to prove her age is given to the police or not. She
denied that she did not make statement before police about the
physical relationship that took place at Lakhimpur.

16. PW-7 is the M/O. According to her evidence on 05/07/18,
while she was working as M&HO at SMK Civil Hospital, Nalbari, she
examined Miss ‘X’ aged 16 years D/O-Jaydeb Barman and as per
history narrated by the victim girl Miss ‘X’ that on 01/07/18 at
around 4 pm she in her own wishes went with the boy riding on
her bicycle and physical relationship occurred with the boy in her
own wishes one time. PW-7 stated on examination found external
genitalia was healthy, hymen torn, vagina admits two fingers with
difficulty. Urine for pregnancy test was negative. Vaginal swab no
sperm seen. No abnormality was detected in USG lower abdomen.
Estimated age as per radiological evidence was above 16 years
and below 18 years of age.

17. PW-6 is the I/O of the case. His evidence is that on 05/05/18
Jaydeb Barman, lodged the written ejahar before O/C, Belsor PS on

Spl (P) Case No:24/18 6 of 11
the basis of which Belsor PS case no. 84/18 u/s-366 IPC has been
registered. According to him he recovered the victim girl from
Gordon Chowk area in front of a shop and she was identified by
her father who was with him at the time of recovery. His cross is
that he did not seize any documents relating to date of birth of
victim and accused was not present at the time of recovery of

victim girl.

18. Onscrutiny of the statement of PWs including IO of the case
it revealed that either, informant/father PW-1 of the alleged victim
girl or the victim girl handover any documents with regard to the
age of the victim to the police, i.e 1O of the case. IO of the case in
his evidence in cross stated he did not seize any documents
relating to the date of birth of victim. Victim stated she is student
of school that means her school certificate is present. PW-1 who is
the father of the alleged victim girl did not whisper the age of the
victim while adducing evidence. There is nothing produced by the
informant to show the date of birth of the victim. As per the x-ray
report the radiological age is estimated above 16 years and below
18 years.

19. The statement of PW-1 & PW-2 pointed accused was
working in the shop house of PW-2 and accused left the job 2 days
prior to the incident. On the date of incident PW-1 came to the
house of PW-2 and enquired about accused and his daughter. That
means PW-1 has the knowledge of leaving of his daughter with
accused on the date of incident.

20. Their statement further pointed that on the next day they
visit the house of accused. PW-1 deposed the delay is due to
search of his daughter but the statement of PW-1 and PW-2 when
read together goes to show that PW-1 has clear knowledge on the
date of incident with whom his daughter with all probability can go
and he has concrete knowledge that his daughter Miss X go away
with accused Jiten. His statement recorded u/s-161 CrPC also goes
to show that he has knowledge about the incident with whom his
daughter goes on the date of incident. Therefore the reason shown
by him in the ejahar that due to search there is a delay in lodging

Spl (P) Case No:24/18 7 of 11
the ejahar is not sound reasonable ground for delay in filing the
ejahar.

21. PW-1 in his statement recorded u/s-161 CrPC and before the
court did not whisper the reason for delay in lodging the case.
Therefore, the reason made in the ejahar is not substantiate by
him while adducing evidence before the court and his testimonies
does not satisfy the reason for delay stated in the ejahar and
same is not sufficient and satisfactory when PW-1 has clear
knowledge about the incident with whom his daughter goes on the
date of incident. In a case of sexual assault and rape of woman
and child, there may be some social stigma that could led the
delay in lodging the ejahar but in the case in hand, Pw-1 stated in
the ejahar that due to search there is delay in lodging the ejahar
but while adducing evidence before the court he is silent and
deposed he visited the house of accused and his evidence
revealed he has clear knowledge about the incident and his
statement made in the ejahar is not harmonize with his evidence
and therefore the delay in lodging the ejahar being not explained
duly, reasonably is fatal for the prosecution.

22. It is settled principle of law that there is always 2-3 years
error in the radiological age, and if 2-3 years is added in the
radiological age then victim is appeared to be above 18 years of
age at the time of incident.

23. It also settled principle of law that when there is an error
and two possibilities appeared in a case then the possibilities that
goes in favors of the accused will stand.

24. Charge against the accused is u/s-366 IPC and section-4 of
the POCSO Act. To prove the charge of section-366 IPC prosecution
must have to prove that there is kidnap or abduction of woman.
Woman is kidnapped and abducted to marry her against her will
and consent and third in order to marry her against her will and
consent she is forced and or seduce to illicit intercourse.

Spl (P) Case No:24/18 8 of 11
25. On scrutiny of statement of the PW-5 victim Miss ‘xX’, it is
seen that she deposed there was a love affairs between her and
accused and on 01/05/18 both of them went for outing at Barpeta
riding on the bike of accused. Her evidence does not point that
she was forcefully taken away by the accused. History stated by
her before the doctor is that on 01/07/18 at around 4 pm she in
her own wishes went with the boy riding on her bicycle and
physical relationship occurred with the boy in her own wishes one
time. Before doctor Miss X does not pointed her finger accusing
accused that it was accused kidnap her or abduct her with intent
to marry her against her will and consent. She stated before
doctor that she went with accused for outing. Her evidence further
pointed from the house of accused she with accused went to
Mandia in the house of accused’s elder sister where she and
accused stayed for 3 days, thereafter accused put vermilion. She
did not whisper use of any force on her. Her evidence further
pointed they went to Dhemaji from Dhemaji they came to
Lakhimpur where they have physical relationship. In respect of
physical relationship she did not state that accused used force on
her. Her evidence is that from Lakhimpur police picked both of
them and brought them to Belsor.

26. In cross she stated she did not make statement before
police about the physical relationship between them taking place
at Lakhimpur. In her 161 CrPC statement, she stated that 1% she
came with accused riding on her bicycle and accused came on his
motor cycle and when she meet accused her friend Anima Devi
was present and Anima left her when she went with accused and
from Barnibari both went on the motor cycle of accused. Before
police and magistrate she stated that accused have sexual
intercourse with her after drinking. In the court she does not state
that accused have sexual intercourse with her under intoxication
and she did not spell out that accused committed rape on her or
have sexual intercourse with her forcefully against her will and

consent.

Spl (P) Case No:24/18 9 of 11
27. Victim did not make statement that accused had committed
rape on her. In her deposition she did not talk about taking place

of forceful sexual intercourse with her against her consent.

28. The prosecution failed to bring beyond all reasonable doubt
the age of the victim is below 18 years by producing any school
certificate or birth certificate and radiological age being not the
accurate age there caste doubt.

29. In view of the aforesaid discussion, | come to my definite
finding that prosecution evidence is not sufficient enough to hold
accused Jiten Das @ Jitendra Das guilty of committing of offence
u/s-366 IPC and section-4 of the POCSO Act and | hold prosecution
failed to bring home the charge u/s-366 IPC and section-4 of the
POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubt and accused entitled to
benefit of doubt.

30. In the result accused Jiten Das @ Jitendra Das acquitted
from the charge of section-366 IPC and section-4 of the POCSO Act
and is set at liberty.

31. However, his bail bonds remain stands for next 6 (six)
months u/s-437-A CrPC.

Judgment is given under my hand and seal of this court on
this the 2" day of August, 2019.

Special Judge
Nalbari

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge,
Nalbari.

Typed by:
Biswajit Bhattacharjya, Copyist

Spl (P) Case No:24/18 10 of 11
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witnesses
PW-1, Jaydeb Barman (informant),
PW-2, Girish Medhi,
PW-3, Sabitri Sen Deka,
PW-4, Minati Sen Deka,
PW-5, Miss 'X' (victim),
PW-6, Bandhuram Baishya (I/O)
PW-7, Dr. Urmi Devi Choudhury (M/O)

B. Defence witness
NIL

C. Prosecution Exhibits
Ext-1, Ejahar,
Ext-2, statement of victim recorded u/s-164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-3 charge sheet,
Ext-4 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence,
Ext-5, Medical Report,
Ext-6, X-ray report.

D. Defence Exhibit
Nil.

Special Judge
Nalbari

Spl (P) Case No:24/18 11 of 11
