IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, MORIGAON

Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015
U/S 376, 376(2)(i) IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act

Present : Mr. P. Das
Special Judge,
Morigaon, Assam.

State of Assam

-VS-
Md. Babul Hussain __..... Accused

Date of Charge : 13.08.2014, 25.06.2015.

Date of Argument : 04.12.2018, 19.01.2019.

Date of Judgment : 15.03.2019.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State : Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the Accused : Mr. P. R. Bora, Ld. Advocate.
Mr. A. Salam, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case in brief is that an ejahar dated 04.09.2013, was
lodged before the Laharighat Police Station by Musstt. Afia Begum alleging inter-
alia that the accused Babul Hussain, a Pan shop owner seduced the 10 years old
daughter of the informant and committed rape upon her. On the basis of the
ejahar, Laharighat PS Case No. 209/2013, was registered under Section 376 IPC
r/w Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(hereinafter POCSO Act) and investigation started.

2. After completion of investigation, charge sheet was submitted against the
accused, Babul Hussain u/s 376 IPC r/w Section 6 of the POCSO Act.
Subsequently, charges were framed against the accused u/s 376 IPC and
thereafter u/s 376(2)(i) IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012, by this Court
2 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

through my learned Predecessor. The charges upon being denied by the accused

led to commencement of the trial.

3. At the trial, prosecution side examined as many as 13 witnesses.
Thereafter, the accused was duly examined u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence did not

adduce any evidence.

4. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

Whether the accused Babul Hussain committed rape/ penetrative sexual
assault upon the prosecutrix stated to be a minor and guilty of committing an
offence punishable u/s 376/376(2)(i) IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. I have perused the evidence on record and other relevant materials

 

available. Heard learned public prosecutor for the State and Mr. P. R. Bora, the
learned defence counsel for the accused person and considered rival
submissions. I have perused the documents exhibited, including the medical

report and the Forensic report.

6. The learned defence counsel has raised the contention that the trial has
been vitiated because the learned Assistant Sessions Judge, Morigaon has
recorded depositions of the witnesses though the case has been charged under
the provisions of POCSO Act, 2012. For the purpose of adjudicating his

contention, I have carefully perused the case record and the relevant materials.

7. Vide order dated 13.08.2014, charge u/s 376 IPC was framed against the
accused by learned Assistant Sessions Judge, Morigaon and recording of
evidence started. Subsequently, vide order dated 01.04.2015, the case record
was transferred to the Sessions Court for further proceeding in the context of
finding materials under POCSO Act, 2012. Thereafter, vide order dated
25.06.2015, passed by this Special Court, charges were framed against the
accused u/s 376(2)(i) IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

8. In this context, I have perused the order dated 20.03.2017, passed by

this Court as Special Court through my learned predecessor. It is stated that the
3 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

charge under the POCSO Act was framed after deposition of most of the
witnesses and thereafter, PW-1, the informant cum mother of the prosecutrix
and PW-2/ prosecutrix were summoned again for re-cross-examination and they
were discharged after defence duly re-cross-examined these two witnesses. It is
further stated in the order dated 20.03.2017, that after re-cross-examination of
PW-1 and PW-2, learned defence counsel, Mr. P. R. Bora declined to re-cross-
examine the other witnesses who have already been examined, and as such,

prosecution evidence was closed at that stage.

9. In the context of the aforesaid situation, after addition of charge
including charge under POCSO Act, 2012, it was necessary for the defence to get
an opportunity to cross-examine the prosecution witnesses and the defence was
duly given such opportunity. The defence re-cross-examined the informant and
the prosecutrix and did not consider re-cross-examining the other witnesses and
therefore, declined to do so, whereupon, the prosecution evidence was closed.
In the context of the same, since defence was given due opportunity to re-cross-
examine the prosecution witnesses afresh, which they availed with regard to the
most vital prosecution witnesses and declined to do so with regard to the rest, I
am of the considered view and finding that the procedure has been followed and
that the trial is not vitiated. Therefore, I do not find force in the contention of

the learned defence and the same stands repelled.

10. Now, I come to the prosecution evidence and first I look at the testimony
of the prosecutrix who adduced evidence as PW-2. In her evidence, she stated
that on the day of incident, at about 3 PM, she had gone to the shop of the
accused at Tinisukia bazaar to buy betel nut. Then the accused told that his wife
was not at home and took her to his house and asked her to wash utensils.

Thereafter, the accused gagged her mouth and committed rape upon her.

In cross-examination, she reiterated that the accused had called her to
his house and committed rape upon her and denied that she deposed falsely.
She also stated in cross-examination that near the shop of the accused are

located the shops of Ruhul Amin, Fakaruddin and Safiqul Islam etc.
4 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

During trial, the prosecutrix as PW-2 proved the Ext. 1, her statement
recorded before the learned Magistrate during investigation and her signatures
thereon as Ext. 1(1) and 1(2).

I find that the testimony of the prosecutrix remained unshaken during

cross-examination regarding the incident.

11. Before proceeding further, it would be crucial to peruse the statement of
the prosecutrix which she had given before the Magistrate during investigation.
In the said statement, Ext. 1, she stated that on the day of the incident she
returned from the school and had gone to the house of the accused to do work
and that since they are poor, she and her mother used to work in the houses of
others. She stated that she previously worked at the house of the accused. PW-2
further stated in her statement that after washing utensils when she was about
to come out, the accused gagged her mouth and took her inside the house.
Thereafter, with one hand he gagged her mouth and with the other hand
removed her pant. Then he put his one leg over her one leg and committed rape
upon her, whereupon, she cried loudly and the accused ran away. Since the
house of the accused located near the market, people assembled there upon
hearing her cry and she told the people that accused had committed bad act
upon her.

From the above, I find that narration of the incident made by the
prosecutrix as PW-2 during trial tallies with her narration in her Section 164

Cr.PC statement, thereby, lending significant credibility to her evidence.

12. Sh. Rebat Chandra Baruah who had conducted investigation into the case
adduced evidence as PW-13 during which he stated that after lodging of the
case, he examined the victim girl on the same day and also seized the inner
garments which she was wearing at the relevant time of the occurrence. He
exhibited the seizure list as Ext. 5, and his signature thereon as Ext. 5(1). Upon
perusal of the seizure list, I find mention of one under garment colour check
white of the victim girl which was produced by her mother. PW-3 further stated
that the said seized garment was sent to the FSL for examination and he
collected the FSL report during the course of investigation. He proved the FSL

report as Ext. 6, and the report reveals presence of human semen and blood in
5 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

the under garment. I have perused the FSL report and I found mention of Exh
No. Sero 3240/A having given positive result for human blood and semen. On
earlier part of the report it is stated that the said sample was received in
connection with Laharighat PS Case No. 209/2013. The testimony of PW-13 has

also remained unshaken.

13. After addition of charge under POCSO Act, the prosecutrix and the
informant were re-called by the prosecution for evidence and they were
examined and duly cross-examined by defence. In her re-cross-examination, the

prosecutrix denied that she stated falsely against the accused.

14. The mother of the prosecutrix who is the informant of the case adduced
evidence as PW-1 in which she stated that on the date of the incident, in the
afternoon, prosecutrix had gone to the shop of the accused to buy betel nut and
subsequently, she got information that something had happened to her daughter
and then she went to the Tinisukia bazaar and saw that the public were
preparing to take her to the Police Station. She also went to the Police Station
and lodged the case. She stated that at Tinisukia bazaar the accused had
committed rape upon her daughter and at the time of incident her daughter was
aged 10 years.

In cross-examination, she reiterated that the accused committed rape
upon her daughter and denied that she deposed falsely. She stated that she had

not seen the occurrence.

15. The testimony of the informant/PW-1 lends support to the testimony of

the prosecutrix, the Investigating Officer and the Forensic evidence.

16. One Fakaruddin whom the prosecutrix mentioned in her evidence
adduced evidence as PW-4 in which he stated that on the date of the incident,
upon hearing about the incident, at Tinisukia bazaar, he went there and saw
collection of people at the place. He further stated that one girl was asked by the
people as to what had happened and she replied that the accused had

committed bad act upon her.
6 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

17. Similarly, one Safiqul Islam, whom the prosecutrix stated in her testimony
adduced evidence as PW-5 in which he stated that on the date of the incident he
was playing carom at the back side of the shop of the accused and upon seeing
collection of people he came out. He saw that some people were asking a girl as
to whether someone had committed bad act upon her and the girl replied that
the accused had committed bad act upon her.

He reiterated in his cross-examination that the girl told before the people

that accused had committed bad act upon her.

18. One Ruhul Amin whom the prosecutrix also mentioned in her testimony
adduced evidence as PW-6 in which he stated that on the date of the incident, in
the evening, while coming to his shop, he saw collection of people. He asked and
was told that the accused had committed rape upon the prosecutrix. He also
stated that upon asking the prosecutrix, she told that the accused committed
rape upon her.

He denied in cross-examination that he had deposed against the accused
due to any business rivalry and denied that he instigated the mother of the

prosecutrix to lodge a false case.

19. During investigation, the prosecutrix was forwarded for medical
examination and she was examined by the Medical Officer, Dr. Jaya Prava Boro
who deposed evidence as PW-10 during the trial. During testimony, she stated
that on 04.09.2013, she conducted medical examination upon the prosecutrix

and her important findings are as follows;

Vaginal hymen was open and no injury seen; no definite sign of recent
sexual intercourse; no teeth marks or nail marks seen in any part of the body,
clinically the age of the girl was between 11 to 13 years. She proved the medical

report as Ext. 2 ad her signature thereupon as Ext. 2(1).

20. Similarly, one Abdul Jabbar as PW-7 stated that on the date of incident
he was at his house and upon hearing hue and cry in Tinisukia bazaar, he came
out and saw an assemblage of person. Upon asking the people, he was told that

the accused had committed bad act upon a girl.
7 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

21. PW-3, Harun Al Rashid stated in his evidence that on the date of the
incident upon hearing hue and cry near his pharmacy at Tinisukia bazaar, he
went there and upon asking the boys present there they told that the accused
had committed bad act upon a girl and he found both the accused and the girl
and upon asking the girl she told him that the accused did not commit bad act

upon her.

22. One Moinul Hoque adduced evidence as PW-8 in which he stated that at
the time of the incident, there was hue and cry and collection of people in front
of the shop of the accused. A girl was waiting in front of the shop of the accused

and upon his asking the girl she stated that nothing happened.

23. Similarly, one Abbas Ali adduced evidence as PW-9 who stated that on
the date of the incident, while having tea at Tinisukia bazaar, he heard people
discussing that one false case was lodged against the shop keeper Babul with

regard to commission of bad act upon a girl.

24. One Abdul Malek adduced his evidence as PW-11 in which he stated that
on the date of the incident, in the afternoon, he heard hue and cry in the hotel
of Ruhul Amin located near the shop of the accused. He went there and upon
asking the people they told that the accused had committed rape upon the
prosecutrix. He further stated that upon asking the girl she stated that the

accused had not raped her.

In cross-examination, he stated that the girl told him that shopkeeper

Ruhul Amin tutored her to say that the accused had committed rape upon her.

25. _I find that the evidence of PW-3 Harun Al Rashid, PW-8 Moinul Haque,
PW-9 Abbas Ali and PW-11 Abdul Malek might apparently seem to indicate an

alternate view with regard to guilt of the accused.

26. However, the testimony of the prosecutrix during trial, her statements
before the Magistrate during investigation, the evidence of the Investigating
Officer, seizure list and the Forensic evidence have overwhelmingly supported
the prosecution case regarding the nature of the incident narrated by the

prosecutrix.
8 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

27. Further, the evidence of PW-4 Fakaruddin, PW-5 Safiqul Islam, PW-6
Ruhul Amin, all of whom were mentioned by the prosecutrix in her evidence,
have supported the case of the prosecutrix regarding the incident. In fact, the
evidence of these witnesses are almost in the nature of resgestae with regard to
the alleged incident of penetrative sexual assault upon the prosecutrix by the
accused and lends considerable support and credence to the testimony of the
prosecutrix, her Section 164 Cr.PC statement, the evidence of PW-13, the seizure

list and the Forensic evidence.

28. The testimony of the mother of the prosecutrix as informant has also
supported the aforesaid evidence and further fortifies it. Despite the nature of
the medical evidence regarding the findings with regard to sexual act and the
testimony of PW-3, PW-8, PW-9 and PW-11, the solid testimony of the
prosecutrix both during trial and her statement before the Magistrate coupled
with the forensic evidence of finding blood stain and semen in her under
garment seized by the Investigating Officer, PW-13 vide Ext. 5 (seizure list)
along with testimony of PW-13 (Investigating Officer) simply cannot be

overlooked and brushed aside.

29. It is well settled that in a criminal trial when two views are possible, the
one in favour of the accused is to be preferred. However, in this case, apparently
it may seem that evidence of some of the witnesses raises an alternative view
requiring granting of benefit of doubt to the accused, but the other parts of the
prosecution evidence as narrated above, including the crucial testimony of the
prosecutrix, Investigating Officer, the forensic evidence and rest of the
corroborating evidence is overwhelming and effectively nails the accused, ruling

out the possibility of any alternative view.

30. Therefore, on the basis of the evidence and relevant materials on record,
I come to the considered finding that the prosecution has able to prove beyond
reasonable doubt that on the day of the incident, the accused Babul Hussain

committed penetrative sexual assault upon the prosecutrix.
9 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

31. Now, the question to be determined on the basis of the approximate age
of the prosecutrix is whether the penetrative sexual assault is aggravated or not.
The mother of the prosecutrix has testified that her daughter was aged 10 years
at the time of the incident but also stated that she had not submitted any
certificate in support of the same. The prosecutrix in her evidence as PW-2 has
stated that she does not know exactly her age. The medical report shows the

age of the prosecutrix in between 11 to 13 years.

32. In the context of the evidence on record, I am of the considered view
that it is not absolutely sure as to whether the prosecutrix was aged below 12
years at the time of the incident for making the act of the accused an act of

aggravated penetrative sexual assault.

33. Further, from the evidence and materials on record, it is quite clear that
the prosecutrix was a minor aged below 18 years and therefore, a child within
the meaning of POCSO Act, 2012. In the medical evidence also, the age of the
prosecutrix is indicated to be 11 to 13 years. Therefore, on the basis of the
evidence on record, one can safely come to the finding that the prosecutrix was

aged less than 16 years on the date of the incident.

34. It may be mentioned herein that Section 376(2)(i) IPC brought in by the
2013 Amendment is with effect from 03.02.2013. In this case, the date of
incident is 04.09.2013.

35. In the entire facts and circumstances, on the basis of the evidence on
record and in view of above discussion, I come to the considered finding that the
accused is guilty of committing penetrative sexual assault upon the prosecutrix
aged below 16 years. Accordingly, the accused is convicted u/s 376(2)(i) IPC r/w
Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

ORDER ON SENTENCE

36. Heard the accused and the learned defence counsel on the point of

sentence. The accused has prayed for leniency.
10 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

37. Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 punishes the offence of penetrative
sexual assault with imprisonment for a term not less than 7 years but may
extend to life imprisonment and fine. However, Section 376(2)(i) IPC punishes
the offence of commission of rape upon a child below 16 years of age with
rigorous imprisonment not less than 10 years and which may also extend to life
imprisonment, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person’s

natural life and shall also be liable to fine.

38. Section 42 of the POCSO Act, 2012 provides that, “where an act or
omission constitutes an offence punishable under this Act and also under
Sections 166A, 354A, 354B, 354C, 354D, 370, 370A, 375, 376, 376A, 376C
376D, 376E or Section 509 of the India Penal Code (45 of 1860), then,
notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, the
offender found guilty of such offence shall be liable to punishment under this Act
or under the India Penal Code as provides for punishment which is greater in

degree.”

39. Thus, for conviction u/s 376(2)(i) IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
2012, the convict will have to be imposed with sentence under that penal

provision which provides punishment greater in degree.

40. In the context of the above and in the facts and circumstances, the
accused is hereby sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 (Ten)
years and to pay fine of Rs. 2000/- (in default, undergo further rigorous
imprisonment for two months) for his conviction under section 376(2)(i) IPC r/w
Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

41. As stated above, in terms of mandate of Section 42 of the POCSO Act,

2012, punishment greater in degree has been chosen.

42. Any period of detention undergone by the convict during
investigation/trial shall be set off as against the substantive sentence in

compliance with section 428 of the Cr.P.C.

43. — His bail bond is cancelled and sureties stand discharged.
11 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

44. The convict shall be given a copy of this judgment free of cost.

45. A copy of this judgment and order shall also be sent to the learned

District Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with Section 365 of the Cr.P.C.

46. Further, in exercise of power under Section 357-A Cr.P.C. and the Assam
Victim Compensation Scheme, the District Legal Service Authority, Morigaon shall
award adequate and suitable victim compensation to the prosecutrix who is the
victim of the crime, for her rehabilitation. For this purpose, a copy of this
judgment and order shall be sent to the learned Secretary, District Legal Service

Authority, Morigaon for doing the needful.

47. The instant Special Sessions case stands disposed of on the aforesaid

terms.

48. Given under my hand and seal on this the 15" day of March, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by me (P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
(P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
12 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

APPENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses:

PW-1 : Musstt. Afia Begum.
PW-2 : Prosecutrix.

PW-3 : Md. Harun Al Rashid.
PW-4 : Md. Fakar Uddin.
PW-5 : Md. Safikul Islam.
PW-6 : Md. Ruhul Amin.

PW-7 : Md. Abdul Jabbar.
PW-8 : Md. Moinul Hoque.
PW-9 : Md. Abbas Ali.

PW-10 : Dr. Jaya Prava Bora.
PW-11 : Md. Abdul Malek.
PW-12 : ASI. Abdul Khalek.
PW-13 : Sh. Rebat Ch. Baruah.
Defence Witness:

Nil.

Prosecution Exhibits:

1. Ext. 1 : Section 164 Cr.PC statement of the prosecutrix.
2. Ext. 2 : Medical Report.
3. Ext. 3 : Ejahar.

4. Ext. 4 : Sketch map.

5. Ext. 5 : Seizure list.
13 Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 11/2015

6. Ext. 6 : FSL Report.
7. Ext. 6 : Charge sheet.

Defence Exhibits:

Nil.

Dictated and corrected by me (P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
(P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
