Page 1 of 17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence
Date of examination of accused
u/s 313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of. Judgment

Date of sentence hearing and
finalJudgment.

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

46 OF 2018

(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case _ No.
1727/18)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
State of Assam

=-Vs-
Sri Matrika Bhattarai
Son of late‘Chandalal Bhattarai,
Resident of Bapubheti
Police.Station — Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
17/07/2018

14/08/2018 & 20/09/2018.

28/09/2018.

14/11/2018

17/11/2018

19/11/2018

Mr. M.Ch. Baruah,
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. B. Kotoki, Advocate.

 
Page 2 of 17

JUDGMENT
1. In this case accused Sri Matrika Bhattarai is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.
Da The factual matrix according to the FIR, in brief, is that on or about

three months ahead of date of filing of the ejahar by complainant, one day
at about 11 a.m. in absence of other family members of the complainant,
accused trespassed into their house and forcefully committed rapesto, her
daughter against her will. As a result of such sexual torture she became
pregnant for three months. The accused threatened her if she disclosed the
matter to others she will be killed. Hence, this prosecution case» The ejahar
was filed by the informant Sri Geeta Thapa before thexIncharge of Tezpur
Police station on 06-05-2018.

3. On being receipt the ejahar, O/C Tezpur, Police Station registered a
case being Tezpur P.S. Case No. 910/18-under section 4 of the POCSO Act.
After completion of usual investigation, the O/C Tezpur Police Station sent
up the case for trial against the accused»Sri Matrika Bhattarai u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the.accused before this Court, after hearing both
parties, framed charge under section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the
accused Sri Matrika Bhattarai and particulars of the charge was read over,
explained to thesaccused to which he pleads not guilty and claims to be
tried.

5$ Toxsubstantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 6 (six)
numbers of witnesses which includes the informant, victim, other material
witnesses and the Investigating Officer and Judicial Magistrate.

6. After completion of prosecution evidence, accused is examined u/s
313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and evidence
appears against the accused are put before him for explanation where he
denied the evidence and allegation and declined to give defence evidence.

7. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of
both sides.

 
Page 3 of 17

8. The point for decision in this case is that:
1. Whether on or about 11 a.m. of 3 months ahead of date of

filing of the ejahar i.e. on 06-05-2018, at Bapubheti under Tezpur
Police station, accused committed penetrative sexual assault on
Miss X (aged about 16 years) and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s 4 of the POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.
9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence, on
record.

10. PW- 1 Smti Geeta Thapa, complainant of this case, stated that victim is
her daughter, aged about 19 years. The incident took. place.about 4 months
ago. Her victim daughter became pregnant. That has*‘come to know when she
was brought to the hospital for treatment. The accused Matrika used to visit
their house frequently. When they came toxknow about the incident, her victim
daughter was 3 months pregnant. On being came to know about the pregnancy
of her daughter, she asked her.from whose side she became pregnant. Then
she told her that from the. side of.accused Matrika Bhattarai she become
pregnant. Then she lodged.the ejahar. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is her
Signature. Police recorded her statement. Her victim daughter was sent to KCH,
Tezpur for medical examination and she was sent to the learned court for
recording her\statement. Thereafter, her daughter was given zimma to them.
After attaining pregnancy for about three months, she was miscarriage. During
investigation, I.O. has seized the birth certificate of her victim daughter. Ext. 2
is the ‘seizurelist and Ext. 2(1) is her signature. Thereafter, the original

certificate is given zimma to them.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions, the evidence as to, her daughter became pregnant
on or about four months ago, on being came to know about the pregnancy
of her daughter and while she asked from whose side she became pregnant
she told her that she became pregnant from the side of the accused has

remained unchallenged.

 
Page 4 of 17

11. PW-2 Smt. Sabitri Devi, who is the grandmother of the victim girl, stated
before the court that the incident took place about 3 months ago. At the
relevant time, her daughter Geeta Thapa was not at home, she was at
Bengalore. Though she herself, victim Miss X and Padum Thapa are resides
together but at the relevant time she has been to Na-bil. After arrival from Na-
bil, she came to know that victim become three months pregnant. Padum
Thapa was born after 6 years of birth of victim girl. The victim girl did not state

anything to her as to how she became pregnant.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she has not personally seen

any incident.

12. PW-3, victim Miss X stated before the court that accused whom they
called as “Khura” (uncle). The incident took place\about three months ago.
Actually, the incident took place in the month of February. At about 11 a.m. she
was in reading at her home as she had toxappear in Unit Test examination.
During that time one of her friend Pallabi,Chetry asked her loudly from the road
whether she would go to school ornot» Then she left. Thereafter, she was
alone in home. During that time ‘there was no other family members. Then
accused secretly entered*into. her room and asked her what she was doing. He
advised her to write correctly in examination. Then he went out. Again he
entered into her.roomeand asked her whereabouts of other family members.
She told thesaccused that other family members went to attend the “Bhagawat
recitation” in their village. Then accused hugged her from back side, opened
her clothes forcefully and open his clothes. She raised alarm. He laid her down
in.the bed and committed rape upon her. Inspite of her raising alarm, he did
not pay any heed to her. He gagged her mouth. The accused also threatened
her if she disclosed the incident to other he would kill her and her brother.
Then she became senseless. Then she went to school. As the accused
continuously threatened her not to disclose the matter to others so out of fear
she did not report about the incident to others. One day, when she went to
school she felt pain in her abdomen. Then her mother took her to doctor and
doctor reported that she was three months pregnant. One day during raining

she suddenly fell down in the toilet and in the toilet her still baby was

 
Page 5 of 17

miscarriage. Then she has been taken to the doctor and the doctor reported
that she was pregnant. Then her mother filed the ejahar. Thereafter, police
sent her to the doctor for examination. Then she has been taken to the learned
Magistrate to record her statement. Ext. 3 is her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and
Ext. 3(1) and 3(2) are her signatures. During investigation police seized her
birth certificate. In the birth certificate her date of birth was mentioned as on
06-09-2002. After seizing the original birth certificate, it was given zimma to
them by taking a photocopy of the said original certificate. When doctor
reported that she is pregnant of three months then her mother _askedsher from
whose side she became pregnant. Then she stated that. accused’ Matrika

Bhattarai caused her pregnancy and reported her details.about the incident.

Though she has been exposed to long crosSs-examination, except giving
many suggestions, the evidence as to at thexrelevant time when the family
members of the victim went to attend “Bhagawat Recitation” in their village,
accused came to their house, hugged her, opened her closed, gagged her
mouth, accused also opened his clothes, laid her down in bed and committed

rape upon her has remained_unchallenged.

13. PW-4 Miss Juhi»Gogoi stated that on 07-05-2018 she was posted as
Judicial Magistrate,.1* class, Sonitpur, Tezpur and on that day in reference to
Special POCSO Case No. 46/18 u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, she has recorded the
statement.of.victim namely Miss X, D/O Bhakta Bahadur Tappa, resident of
village-Puthimari, aged about 16 years u/s 164 Cr.P.C. She has recorded the
statement ofthe victim at her court chamber in presence of her mother Smti
Geeta Thappa. The victim witness was escorted and identified by WHG Deepali
Devi. The victim made statement voluntarily. After recording her statement, the
statement was read over to her and on acceptance she put signature in her
statement. Ext. 3 is the said statement and 3(3) is her signature. Ext. 4 is her
order dated 07-05-2018 and Ext. 4(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she has recorded her
statement as per POCSO Act.

 
Page 6 of 17

14. PW-5 Dr. Amarjit Kaur, stated that on 07-05-2018 she was posted as
Sub-Divisional Medical & Health Officer in the Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur
and on that day at about 2:00 p.m. in the labour room complex of KCH, she
examined Miss X (victim), 16 years, D/O Bhakta Bahadur Thapa of village
Puthimari Bapubheti, PS Tezpur, in reference to Tezpur PS Case NO. 910/18
u/s 4 of POCSO Act, on being escorted and identified by WHG Dipali Devi, vide
Hospital Registration No. 42695.E/118. She was examined in presence of GNM
Jinu noni Das. On examination she found the following:

Menstrual history : Regular, LMP — 16-02-2018

History of sexual exposure : present, three months, back.

On examination: At the time of examination, she was well
dressed, neat and tidy. Her built was average, gait‘was normal. Height — 145
cm, Weight — 35 kg. Secondary sexual characters were_well developed, vulva

and vagina — healthy, engorged and areola.blacken (dark). Hymen absent.

Investigation advised and report:
Vaginal smear — spermatozoa not'seen. ‘KCH Lab No. 39 dated 7-05-2018

Urine for HCG — positive. Patient ID\NO. 34520 dated 08-05-2018 Pathologist
Dr. D. Mahanta.

X-ray — (AP view of left wrist,elbow joint and Iliac crest for age proof) Age of
the person under‘investigation appears to be just under 18 years.

USG pelvis.

Reports:»Gravid uterous with a live fetus of 14 weeks 4 days gestational age.
(X-rayrand'USG-done at AXCL, Tezpur).

OPINION: . 1. There was no sign and symptoms of recent sexual intercourse
2. No marks of violence seen on her body and private parts.

3. Actual Age of the victim girl under investigation appears to be

just under 18 years

4. Victim girl was pregnant, duration of gestational age — 14

weeks 4 days.

 
Page 7 of 17

Enclos: Advice slip cum hospital registration card, Vaginal
smear report, Urine HCH report, X-ray plates and reports and
USG flims and report.

Ext. 5 is the Medical Report and Ext. 5(1) is her signature. Ext. 6 is
the Urine for HCG report and Ext. 6 (1) is the signature of Dr. D. Mahanta
which she knows. Ext. 7 is the vaginal smear report and Ext. 7(1) is the
signature of laboratory technician of KCH. Ext. 8 is the X-ray report and
plates and USG report with films and Ext. 8(1) is the signature of Dr. P.K.
Barman, Radiologist.

In cross-examination, the doctor stated that the ossification tests are
not surer text. It may not vary two years in either side.

15. PW 6 SI Khargeswar Deka stated that on 06-05-2018 he was posted as
SI of Police at Tezpur Police station. During that period she has been asked to
look after the day to day works of Bihaguri Police,Out Post. On that day, the
then O/C Tezpur PS on being receipt an ejahar.from Gita Thapa and registered
a case being Tezpur PS Case Nos 910/18 and entrusted him to investigate the
case. Ext. 1(2) is the signature.of the then O/C Ranjit Saikia of Tezpur PS.
Accordingly, he has visited.the*place of occurrence and prepared a sketch map
of the place of occurrence. Ext. 9 the sketch map and 9(1) is his signature.
Then he recorded the statement of witnesses. He has sent the victim for
medical examination.\He has also sent the victim to record her statement u/s
164 Cr.P:Ca Afterscollecting report of doctor, he has filed the charge-sheet
against. the. accused Matrika Bhattarai u/s 4 of POCSO Act. At the time of
recording the statement of the accused, he admitted his guilt. Ext. 10 is the

chargesheet and Ext. 10(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination the I.O. has admitted that the complainant filed
this ejahar on 06-05-2018. After recording the statement of the victim he has
visited the place of occurrence. During that time he has been accompanied by
WHG. She was also in her uniform. He has not asked the guardian of the victim
in which place the statement of the victim was recorded. The victim made
statement in Assamese. He has not asked the victim whether any interpreter is

required. He has enquired about the surrounding people of place of occurrence

 
Page 8 of 17

but neighbouring people refused to give statement. He sent the accused to

judicial custody through the learned Magistrate.

16. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence plea is
of total denial while his statement is recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. He stated that
he is an innocent person but he denied to give defence evidence.

17. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution has
failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, the medico
legal report of the doctor stated that there was no signs and symptoms, of
recent sexual intercourse, no marks of violence seen on her body.or.on ‘her
private parts. Had the victim forcefully committed penetrative sexual assault
she might have sustained some injury not only on her.private parts but also
on her body but Doctor did not find any injury. Secondly, according to the
PW 1, mother of the victim on the day of deposition ire. on 14-08-2018 the
victim was 19 years old. Therefore, she iS.a major. So, the offence alleged
against the accused cannot be comes in POCSO Act. Lastly, the alleged
offence is very old one. At the time of, filing the ejahar the alleged victim
became pregnant, so the case is barred by limitation. Hence, praying for

acquit the accused.

18. On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur,
Tezpur submitted thatsthe prosecution has ably proved the case beyond all
shadow of*doubt, as such required to be convicted under the charged
section’ of law. Firstly, it is not necessary that all the victim of penetrative
sexual. assault might have sustained injury on her private parts or on her
body. Ifa girl become habituated with sex there is no any question of
sustaining any injury. Secondly, it is a fact that PW1 mother of the victim
stated that on the day of deposition her daughter was 19 years old.
Definitely PW1 the mother of the victim is an illiterate person, so normally it
is expected that an_ illiterate woman may made such contradictory
statement. Thirdly, during investigation, the I.0. has seized one birth
certificate of the victim where it is shows that her date of birth is on 06-09-
2002. Besides doctor’s report shows that actually age of the victim girl under

investigation appears to be just under 18 years. Fourthly, at the time of

 
Page 9 of 17

recording the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. victim stated that she
was 16 years of age on 07-05-2018. Law is well settled that the date of birth
mentioned in the birth certificate or school certificate will prevail over other
documents therefore, here in this case, it must be presumed that the date of
birth of the victim was 06-09-2002, therefore, on the date of occurrence the
victim was aged about less than 16 years. Here in this case, at the time of
occurrence, the victim is less than 16 years so definitely, she is a child and
such offence committed by accused comes under POCSO Act. Learned
Special Public Prosecutor again submitted that PW 1 is the mother-of the
victim and PW 2 is the grand mother of the victim so they may be interested

witnesses.

To rely the interested witnesses in convicting,the accused, learned
Special P.P. submitted the case of Gali Venkataiah Vs. State of Andhra
Pradesh reported in 2008 Crl.L.J. 690; In regard to minor discrepancies,
learned Special PP also submitted the case law. of State of UP V. Krishna
Master & ors reported in 2010 Crl.L.J.3889.

19. Keeping in mind, the rival. submissions advanced by the learned

counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

20. After going through’the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses, it is seen
except the victim, there is no eye witness to the incident, but according to PW
1, the mother of the victim, her victim daughter became pregnant on or about
4 months fromthe date of filing of the case i.e. on 14-08-2018, which they
came.to know from the doctor of the hospital. She stated that the accused
used to visit their house frequently. When they came to know about the
pregnancy of her daughter, on being enquired, her victim daughter stated that
from the side of accused Matrika Bhattarai she become pregnant. Then she
lodged the ejahar. Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination
except giving many suggestions, the evidence as to, her daughter became
pregnant on or about four months ago, on being came to know about the
pregnancy of her daughter and while she asked from whose side she became

pregnant she told her that she became pregnant from the side of the accused

has remained unchallenged.

 
Page 10 of 17

21. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the FIR filed by the

informant did not disclose any reasons for filing the same in late.
In state Vs. Gurmit Sing, the Hon’ble Apex Court , stated that —

“The court cannot over looked the fact that in sexual offence, delay
in lodging the FIR can be due to variety of reasons particularly the
reluctant of the prosecutrix or her family members to go to the police
and complained about the incident which concern the reputation of
the prosecutrix and the honour of her family. It is only after.giving it

a cool thought that a complaint of sexual assault is generally lodged. ”

In the instant case, the complainant, the mother. ofthe victim has
filed the case only when she came to know that ‘her daughter became
pregnant from the side of the accused. Before ‘that there is no any evidence
of visible pregnancy of the victim. Here in the, present case when the
prosecution has ably prove the case beyond ‘all reasonable doubt as such

mere delay in filing the FIR cannot discard the prosecution case.

22. Learned counsel for the accused further argued that the victim
changed her version in=different times, before the court and before the
learned Magistrate..while, her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. whose

statement cannot. be considered to convict the accused.

23. Here in the present case, as details discussed herein before, the
victim.stated before the court that her date of birth was mentioned as 06-
09-2002. In the Birth certificate which was seized in connection with the
instant.case (In MR Case No. 156/18, Zimma No. 90/18) clearly stated that
her date of birth was on 06-09-2002. In her statement recorded u/s 164
Cr.P.C. also she clearly stated that her date of birth was on 06-09-2002. She
has consistently stated in different stage that her date of birth was on 06-09-
2002.

24. In the case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State, represented by
the Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD) No.98 of 2015, it was held
that it is true that primary evidence to prove the date of birth of the

 
Page 11 of 17

individual may be preferably the birth certificate. But, it cannot be said that
in absence of birth certificate, the date of birth cannot be proved. When the
age of the individual is not disputed, the question of proving the same does
not arise at all. It is the settled law that a fact in issue or any relevant fact or
any fact relevant to the issue, which is disputed by the adverse party alone,
needs proof. If it is not disputed, there is no need to lead any evidence in
proof of the said admitted fact.

However, her mother stated that her daughter on the date of
deposition i.e. on 14-08-2018 was 19 years. No doubt, her mother-is.quite
illiterate, therefore, these are minor contradictions which may erupt.in the

statement of such an illiterate person.

25. In Boya Ganganna Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh reported in
AIR 1976 SC 1541 wherein it is held —

“Minor contradictions are bound to. appear when ignorant and
illiterate women are giving evidence. Even in case of trained and educated
persons, memory sometimes plays ‘false and this would be much more so in
case of ignorant and rustic women. It must also be remembered that the
evidence given a witness would very much depend upon his power of
observation and it.is possible that some aspects of an incident may be
observed by one witness while they may not be witnessed by another

though both*are,.present at the scene of offence.”

As stated above as raised by learned counsel for the accused, these
are~some, slight minor contradictions. Even if admitted the said

contradictions, the prosecution case would not change.

It is also interesting to note that, though the complainant and victim
and other witnesses were duly cross-examined by the defence lawyer but
they have not been cross-examined on the point of age. Thus, the evidence
of PWs in respect of age of the victim remains unchallenged.

26. A careful perusal of the whole case record, it appears that the
statement of the victim made before the court is corroborated by her earlier

statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. before the police and also the statement 164

 
Page 12 of 17

Cr.P.C. before the learned Magistrate. Though she has been exposed to long
cross-examination the evidence as to the accused entered into the room of
the victim, hugged her from back side, fell her down, opened her and his
clothes and committed penetrative sexual assault has _ remained
unchallenged. Besides, according to the prosecution story immediately after
detecting her pregnancy by the doctor while enquired by her mother from
whose side she became pregnant she clearly stated that it is the accused
who caused her pregnancy. There is no any evidence that accused ‘has. any
enmity with the victim to implicate him in a false case. On the othershand,
there is no any evidence that victim was involved in sexual relation with any
other person.
27. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent.on the material
particulars with regard to the incident that on the day of incident, the
accused entered into her reading room, hugged.hery fell her down and by
opening her and his clothes forcefully sexual intercourse with her as a result,
she became pregnant, when her_pregnancy was detected by doctor, on
being asked her by her mother:she,stated that it is the accused who caused
her pregnancy. The evidence of ‘the victim is cogent and reliable. There
cannot be any doubt tordisbelieve the evidence of the victim.
28. Undoubtedly in a‘criminal trial any such lapse on the part of accused
is not leading any~defence evidence would not have mattered much as
prosecutionis, Supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of all reasonable
doubts; However, in a case under POCSO Act, the situation is not so. In this
regard, it will be worthwhile to refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30
of POCSO Act.
29.  U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain offence
is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain offences and
Same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence
u/s.3, 5, 7 and

 
Page 13 of 17

Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may
be, unless the contrary is proved.

30. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special Court
Shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state of the
accused where culpable mental state is required on the part of the accused.
Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any prosecution
for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state-on the
part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume that existencesof such
mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that
he had no such mental state with respect to the act ‘charged.as an offence in
that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact isssaid to be proved only
when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not
merely when its existence is established by a)preponderance of probabilities.
31. The use of expression “shallpresume” has been defined in Section 4
of the Indian Evidence Act. As contrasted from the expression “if presume”,
the expression “shall presume” whenever used connotes “legal presumption”
or “compulsory presumption” as contrasted from “factual presumption” or
“discretionary presumption” emanating from the expression “may presume”.
“Legal presumptions” or “compulsory presumption” as are signified by the
use of<expression “shall presume” are inferences or proposition established
by law, which the law peremptorily requires to be made whenever the facts
appear which it assumes as the basis of that inference. The presumptions of
law are in reality rules of law, and part of the law itself and the court may
draw inference whenever the requisite facts are developed in pleadings.

32. Similarly whenever any law prescribes that the Court shall presume
the existence of culpable mandatory state or to draw a_ presumption
regarding commission of any offence, unless the contrary is proved, the onus
to prove the contrary undoubtedly shifts upon the accused. Certainly, it does
not discharge the prosecution of its duty to first establish and prove the

facts, the existence of which can only lead to drawing of any such

 
Page 14 of 17

compulsory presumption or legal presumption by the use of the expression
“shall presume”. Thus, as per Section 29, if a person is prosecuted for
committing or abating or attempting to commit any offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and 9
of POCSO Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person has
committed or abated or attempted to commit the said offence as the case
may be unless the contrary is proved. However, in the present case, the
accused has completely failed in discharging his burden even by
preponderance of probabilities much less beyond reasonable doubt.

33. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be recorded on
the sole testimony of a child witness or not? This issue was dealt.by the
Hon’ble Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of U.P., (2008) 16 SCC,
which are reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to bea competent one. On the
contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may testify —
all persons shall be competent to testify unless the Court considers that they
are prevented from understanding the:questions put to them, or from giving
rational answers to those questions, by tender years, extreme old age,
disease, whether of body-er mind, or any other cause of the same kind.”

34. Coming to the present case, it appears that prosecution story is such
that on the daysof\incident while the victim was in her room and all other
family members.were went to attend “Bhagawat Recitation” accused secretly
came to her room, hugged her, laid her down on the bed, opened her and
his clothes committed penetrative sexual assault to her, on being came to
know, the cause of her pregnancy by her mother filed the ejahar. While the
accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. he only denied the allegations but
inspite of availing opportunity the accused did not adduce any evidence

On appreciation of evidence given by the victim, her mother, her
grand mother and other independent witnesses, I find that the victim was
sexually assaulted by the accused. It appears that there is no materials of
penetrative sexual assault found by the doctor on the victim as the doctor
stated that there was no signs and symptoms of recent sexual intercourse,

no marks of violence seen on her body and private parts., actual age of the

 
Page 15 of 17

victim girl is under investigation appears to be just under 18 years. Here in
the present case, the victim is below 18 years at the time of occurrence
according to the doctor. Considering all these aspects, I think that the
prosecution has failed to prove the allegation of charge u/s 4 of the POCSO
Act i.e. penetrative sexual assault but prosecution has ably proved the
charge u/s 8 of the POCSO Act beyond all shadow of doubt. Accordingly, I
convict Sri Matrika Bhattarai u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.
35. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he praying for
leniency stating that he is the only bread earner of his family. Besides he has
been in custody for a long time. Hence praying for leniency.
36. I have heard learned counsel for the accused, as well\as learned
Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur.
37. Turning to the question of sentence, it ‘is the settled law that while
deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required=that the Court should
strike a balance between aggravating ‘circumstances and _ mitigating
circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the crime and
mitigating circumstances relate to the.criminal. In this case, so far as the
aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor girl was _ sexually
exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only to the body but also to
the mind of not only tothe victim but that of entire family members, but
considering the mitigating circumstances, the accused was hardly 52 years of
age at the:timevof the incident. It is not brought to the notice of this Court
that before this incident, the accused had committed any other offence.
There, iswlikelihood of his reformation, but the statute u/s.8 of POCSO Act
prescribes minimum punishment for a term of three years with fine. When
the intention of the legislator is to impose stringent punishment for not less
than three years, this court has no option but to impose minimum
punishment of three years.

ORDER
38. —_I convict the accused Sri Matrika Bhattarai u/s. 8 of POCSO Act and
sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 3 (three) years and also to pay a
fine of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand only), in default, Rigorous

Imprisonment for 3 (three) months. The period, which he detained in

 
Page 16 of 17

custody, during the period of investigation, trial etc. shall be set off u/s 428
of Cr.P.C.
39. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement of
witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an amount
of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees Fifty thousand) only is awarded as compensation.
The Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to
give the compensation to the father of the victim after proper enquiry.

Let a copy of the Judgment be sent to the Secretary, District Legal
Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur for her necessary action.
40. A copy of this judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost
immediately.

Let another copy of Judgment be sent tovlearned District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur, u/s 365 of Cr.P.C.

Given under my Hand and Seal.of.this;Court on this the 19" day of
November, 2018

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and ‘corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
On Be he

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6

Exhibit 1

Exhibit 2

Exhibit 1(1) & 2(1)
Exhibit 3

Exhibit 3(1) & 3(2)
Exhibit 4

Exhibit 3(3) & 4(1)
Exhibit 5,6,7 & 8

Exhibit’9
Exhibit.10
Exhibit.9(1) & 10(1)

Page 17 of 17

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- Smti Geeta Thapa, complainant
i= Smt. Sabitri Devi,

I- Victim Miss X

'- Miss Juhi Gogoi, Judl. Magistrate.
ts Dr. Amarjit Kaur,

= SI Khargeswar Deka.

EXHIBITS.

= Ejahar

~ seizurelist.

' signaturesvof the complainant.

oe 164Cr..P.C. statement of the victm
‘= signatures of the victim.

- Order of learned Jdl. Magistrate.

- signatures of the Jdl. Magistrate.

:- Medical report, HCG report, vaginal smear,
USG & X-ray reports.

' sketch map
- Chargesheet.

'- signatures of the I.0O.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
