IN THE COURT OF THE ADDL. DISTRICT & SESSIONS JUDGE CUM
SPECIAL JUDGE-2 (FTC) (POCSO) :: :: TINSUKIA

District: Tinsukia

Present: Md. A. Hakim,
Addl. District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),
(POCSO)Tinsukia.

POCSO Case No. 73(T)/17
U/s 4 OF POCSO Act

The State of Assam

eed eceeaeeaeseeaeeeenees Complainant.

-Versus -

Sri Ganga Nayak,

S/o- Sri Naga Nayak,

R/o- 2 No. Daisa Balijan Gaon,
P.S- Doomdooma,

District- Tinsukia, Assam.

co mem x5 me 2 UE Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal
Sl. PUIG PROSECUTOR sas sccm 15 scene a sans 2 xm For the Complainant
Sri H.K Bhagawati
AAVOCALEC.... cece cecceeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeneeaeeaetaennees For the accused.

Date of Argument: 27.09.2019.
Date of Judgment: 27.09.2019.
UDGMEN T

The prosecution case in brief is that on 20.11.17(Monday)
at No. 2 Daisa Balijan Gaon under Talap O.P, in the district of Tinsukia
the daughter of the informant Sri Lashman Karmakar went to the
house of his Nandu Karmakar who resides near his house. At around 8
PM one local youth Sri Ganga Nayak came with his daughter to see
her off to his house. But after some distance taking the advantage
of darkness, he gagged the mouth of his daughter from behind and
dragged her to Ladaka small tea garden and he slapped and beat
her. The person also tied her hands and strangulate her and under the
tea bushes raped her again and again the whole night and then fled
away. The daughter of the informant fell unconscious the whole
night in the tea garden. As the daughter of the victim did not
return home, there was a chaotic situation prevailed in his house.
Though the informant searched her everywhere but he could not find
her. On 21.11.17 at 12 PM some local young boys and girls found her
in unconscious state at Ladaka small tea garden and informed the
informant about her. Then the informant took his daughter to
Doomdooma Civil Hospital for treatment. Later, after regaining
senses, she was brought to his home and she narrated the fact to
the informant and then the informant lodged this case. The victim did
not recover from her physical situation till lodging of the ejahar.
Hence, the informant has prayed for doing the needful.

Receiving the FIR, Doomdooma P.S. being no. 343/17 registered
a case and investigated the matter and on completion of the
investigation, charge sheet was submitted against the accused and
forwarded to face the trial.

Upon receiving the record and appearance of the accused in
this court and upon hearing both sides and considering the materials on
record charge u/s 4 of POCSO ACT has _ been framed, particulars of
which on being read over and explained the accused had pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.
3

4. During trial, prosecution examined three (3) witnesses. The
examination of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C is dispensed with as no
material ingredients of offence is found against the accused.

5. | have heard argument put forth by the Id. Counsel for both the
sides as well as gone through the entire materials available on record.

6. POINT FOR DETERMINATION :-

1. Whether the accused on 20.11.17, Monday at around 8
PM at No. 2 Daisa Balijan Gaon under Talap O.P, in the
district of Tinsukia had committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the’ victim girl i.e, daughter of Sri
Lashman Karmakar and thereby committed an offence
punishable U/s. 4 of POCSO ACT?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7. PW.1, Dr. Ashma Z.H Ghaznavi has deposed that on
23.11.17 when she was working as Sr. M & H.O at Doomdooma_ FRU.
On that day at about 1:30 P.M, she examined victim girl in
connection with Talap OP(Doomdooma PS) GDE No. 412 dated
22.11.17. She was escorted by WPC, Nomita Borah and _ father
Sri Laxman Karmakar. The victim girl had given the history that on
20.11.17 she was coming back from her relatives house around 8
PM. Someone dragged her to nearby garden and assaulted her.
She became unconscious. The girl was recovered next day around
12 noon by her mother and other family members.

8. On examination she found as follows : Physical examination :
Whether oriented in space and time - Yes.

9. No injury was found either on her genital or other parts of
the body. Her swab were taken for microscopic examination and the
result do not revealed any spermatozoa. Her Radiological examination
4

was done to ascertain her age and as per the report she was
between 15 to 17 years. Ext. 1 isthe Medical report, Ext. 1(1) and
Ext. 1(2) are her signatures. Ext. 2 is the Laboratory report. Ext. 3 is
the Radiological report with X-ray plate.

10. In Cross-examination the PW.1 has stated that she has
stated the age of the victim basing on the Radiological report of
Tinsukia civil hospital. She did not clinically examined the victim to
ascertain her age.

11. P.W.2, Sri Laxman Karmakar has deposed that the victim is
his daughter. He also knows’ the accused Ganga Nayak. The
accused is now his soninlaw as he has married the victim. The
incident has taken place nearly two year back. Since the accused
had kidnapped his daughter, that is why out of anger he had
lodged this case. His daughter is presently 19 years. Ext. 4 is the
ejahar lodged by him. Ext. 4(1) is his signature. After lodging the
ejahar police had come and interrogated him and the victim. Police
had sent the victim for her medical examination. She was also
produced before the magistrate, for recording her statement U/s.
164 of the Cr.P.C. The victim is now residing with the accused and
they have one female issue.

12. In Cross-examination he has stated that the ejahar Ext. 4
was. written by one teacher andthe contents of the Ejahar was
not read over to him. At the time of lodging of the FIR, i.e Ext. 4,
the girl, i.e the victim was aged about 19 years and she fled

away with the accused on her own will.

13. PW.3, the victim has deposed that she knows the
accused Ganga Nayak. Now he is her husband. The incident has
taken place nearly two years back. She had eloped with the accused
on her own will. Thereafter her father had lodged the case. Police
had interrogated her. Police had sent for her medical
examination. She was also produced before the magistrate, for
recording her statement U/s. 164 of the CrPC. Ext. 5 is’ her
statement, Ext. 5(1) and 5(2) are hid signatures. The accused did
5

not sexually molested her. Now she has a female child from the
side of the accused.

14. In Cross-examination she has stated that at the time of
incident she was aged about 19 years

15. With regard to the point for determination Ld. counsel for
the defence has pointed out that prosecution has failed to prove the
case beyond reasonable doubt. As the complainant and the victim
have not implicated the accused person. The victim girl has not
alleged that the she was sexually assaulted by the accused nor the
medical evidence saying anything about the sexual assault. Hence the
prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond all reasonable doubt.

16. In reply Ld. P.P has also fairly submitted that there is no
material ingredients of offence against the accused person. Hence the
accused person should be acquitted and set at liberty.

17. Upon hearing both sides, | have gone through the
material evidence on record and found that the material witness
victim i.e. PW 3 has deposed that the now the’ accused is her
husband. The incident has taken place nearly two years back. She had
eloped with the accused on her own will. Thereafter her father had
lodged the case. The accused did not sexually molested her. Now
she has afemale child from the side of the accused. During cross
examination she has stated that at the time of lodging of the FIR,
i.e. Ext. 4, she was aged about 19 years and she fled away with

the accused on her own will.

18. There is also no medical evidence about the sexual assault on
the victim girl. There is not an iota of evidence about the sexual
harassment by the accused to the victim girl. Which proved that the
prosecution has failed to prove the charge against the accused beyond
all reasonable doubt.

19. In view of the above discussion and considering the evidence
on record, | am of the considered opinion that the Prosecution has
6

failed to prove the case against the accused U/s. 4 of POCSO Act
beyond all reasonable doubts. Hence, the accused person namely 1)
Sri Ganga Nayak is acquitted and set at liberty.

20. The Prosecution is directed to dispose of the seized

material if any in accordance with law.

21. As there is no proof of sexual assault on the victim girl | am
not inclined to allow victim compensation to the victim girl as per S.
357 ACr.P.C.

22. Send a copy of the Judgment to the Deputy Commissioner of
Tinsukia.

23. The case is disposed of herewith.

24. Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 27"

day of September, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me:

(A. Hakim), ( A. Hakim),
Addl. District & Sessions Judge Addl. District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC), cum Special Judge-2(FTC),
(POCSO)Tinsukia. (POCSO)Tinsukia.

Transcribed by :

P.D Phukan, (Steno)
ANNEXURE

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

P.W.1, Dr. Ashma Z.H Ghaznavi,
P.W.2, Sri Laxman Karmakar,
PW.3, Victim girl.

PROSECUTION DOCUMENTS :

Ext. 1 is the Medical report,

Ext. 2 is the Laboratory report,

Ext. 3 is the Radiological report with X-ray plate.

Ext. 4 is the Ejahar,

Ext. 5 isthe 164 statement of the victim recorded by magistrate,

( A. Hakim),
Addl. District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),
(POCSO)Tinsukia.
