1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 03/2017 (POCSO Case
No. 111/2018- New) corresponding to GR
Case No. 308/2017 & Bokajan Police
Station Case No. 74/2017

Under Sections 363/376 IPC/ R/W 4 of the
POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Utpal Debnath

Name of informant/complainant:
Shri Haren Rajbongshi

S/O Shri Abhiram Rajbongshi
Village: Sariahjan, Guwahatia Gaon
PS: Bokajan
District: Karbi Anglong, Assam
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Utpal Debnath
S/O Shri Ashim Debnath
Village: Morakordoiguri Gaon
P.S: Bokajan
District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.
Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defence : Smti Radha Dhar
Date fixed for Argument : 01.06.2019
Judgment pronounced & delivered on: 11.06.2019
2|Page

UDGMENT

It is a case of Kidnapping of a minor girl and
penetrative sexual assault on her alleged to have
been committed by the accused person.

The prosecution case in brief is that on
01.05.2017 the informant named above lodged a
written ejahar with Bokajan Police Station stating
inter alia that on the same at 8 AM the accused
person forcible took his victim daughter having age
of 16 into an auto-rickshaw from the road and went
away years was going to shop the accused took
away her forcibly and kept her somewhere
concealed. On receipt of written ejahar, Bokajan
Police Station registered a criminal case under
section 363 IPC and started investigation. On
completion of investigation, the charge sheet was
Submitted under sections 363/376 IPC/4 of the
POCSO Act against the accused person. Hence the

prosecution has come up.

On completion of appearance of the present
accused person before the Court, copy was supplied
to the accused person. Having very carefully gone
through submissions of learned lawyers of both
sides as well as case diary | found that there was
ground for presuming that that the accused person
committed the offenses under sections 363 of the
IPC/ 6 of the POCSO Act and accordingly, the
charges were framed. The particular of the offence
charged was duly read over and explained to the
accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.
3|Page

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many

as 11 (eleven) witness. The accused person under

section 313 CrPC has been questioned. The defence

has examined none. Plea of defence is of total

denial.

(ii)

Points for determination

Whether the present accused person on
01.05.2017 at about 8:00 AM at Sariahjan,
Guwahatia Gaon under Bokajan Police
Station kidnapped _ victim from the
possession of the informant who was legal

guardian?

Whether the accused on or after
01.05.2017 at about 07:30 PM at
Sariahjan, Guwahatia Gaon or any other
place under Bokajan Police Station or in
any other Police Station made penetrative

sexual assault upon the victim?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal

arguments advanced by the learned counsels of

both sides as well as evidence on record.

For attracting section 363 of IPC and 6 of the
POCSO Act, the victim needs to be below 18 years.
PW-1 is the father of the victim who has clearly
4|Page

stated in his evidence that at the time of
occurrence she was 16 years. PW-3 is co-villager.
According to her, at the time of occurrence, victim
was 15-16 years old. PW-4 is the mother of the
victim who has clearly stated in her evidence that
at the time of occurrence, the victim was 16 years.
Parents are best persons who know the actual date
of birth of their child. Both parents and the victim
marked as PW-7 categorically have stated in their
evidence that at the time of occurrence she was 16
years.

During investigation police seized a Birth
certificate of the victim vide Ext-2. According to Ext-
2, the date of birth of the victim is 10.09.20001.
PW-9 is the medical officer who examined the
victim. Ext-4 is the medical report. The defence has
declined to cross-examine the medical officer as
such her evidence remains uncontroverted. Her
evidence clearly shows that as per Radiologist
report the victim was found to be below 18 years
(16 to 17). | find no way to discard the evidence of
the victim, her parents and contents of Ext-2 that at
the time of occurrence, the victim was 16 years.
The defence stand as revealed from the cross-
examination of the victim is that the victim was
born on 10-6-1998 but to substantiate the said
stand no evidence was led. Hence | feel hesitation
to agree with the defence stand so far date of birth
of the victim is concerned. The main ingredient for
attracting any provision of the POCSO Act, the
victim must be a child which is defined under
section 2(d) of the POCSO Act that a person who is
below 18 years is called a child. Taking all aspects
5|Page

10.

into consideration, | am convinced that at the time
of occurrence the victim completed 18 years.

From the evidence of PW-1 shows that after 8
months from the date of occurrence, on getting
information from the victim that the accused kept in
a place 52 K.Ms away from Agartola, he along with
the father of the accused went there and
apprehended both of them and also brought both of
them to Bokajan. He has further stated that he
produced the victim before Bokajan Police Station
and that Bokajan Police Station got the victim
medically examined and her statement recorded in
the court. Similarly evidence of PW-4 who is the
mother of the victim has stated in her testimony
that the victim was recovered from the possession
of the accused person in Tripura.

In a case of kidnap or sexual assault, the
evidence of the victim is most vital and material.
Even court can convict a person on the basis of
evidence of the victim if her evidence inspires
confidence of the court. Evidence of the victim
shows that on the day of occurrence at 7:30 Am
while she was going towards the house of
neighbourer for getting mobile phone charged,
someone picked her to an auto-rickshaw and
proceeded and after 20 minutes she was taken to
another auto-rickshaw where she found the
accused. There after she was taken to a house
situated in Tea Estate where she was kept 2 days.
During stay in the house, the accused made sexual
intercourse with her twice forcibly. There after again
6|Page

11.

12.

the accused took her to another house situated in
Tea Estate and kept her for 4/5 days. There after the
accused took her to Tripura by train and kept her
there for 8/9 months wherein the accused person
forcibly made sexual intercourse forcibly. Her father
along with the father of the accused recovered her
from the possession of the accused person in
Tripura.

Ext-3 is the statement of the victim recorded
under section 164 of the CrPC after her recovery
which gives a different story. Ext-3 is silent that the
victim was first taken to some houses situated in
Tea Estate where she was kept about a week. But
on material points there is discrepancy. Both Ext-3
and her evidence clearly shows that the victim was
taken to Agartola (Tripura) wherein she was kept till
December, 2017, that during stay the accused
made sexual intercourse with her and that her
father recovered her from the possession of the
accused person in Tripura. During cross
examination of the victim, the defence has not
disputed her evidence to the effect that the
accused took her to Tripura wherein he made sexual

intercourse with her.

PW-9 is the medical officer who examined the
victim. Ext-4 is medical report which shows that at
the time of examination of the victim her hymen
was found absence and her vagina accommodating
two fingers. That apart, | find no way to discard the
evidence of victim that the accused kidnapped her

from her legal guardian and made_ sexual
7|Page

13.

14.

LS.

intercourse with her for several times. In view of
the aforesaid discussion and evidence of the victim
it can be held that the victim was subjected to
sexual intercourse for several times.

The section 363 of the IPC relates to punishment
for kidnapping of minor children from the Lawful
guardian which reads thus:-“363. Punishment for
kidnapping.—Whoever kidnaps any person from
l[India] or from lawful guardianship, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description
for a term which may extend to seven years, and
Shall also be liable to fine.”

The section 361 of the IPC relates to kidnapping
of minor form the Lawful guardian which reads
thus:-“361. Kidnapping from lawful guardianship.—
Whoever takes or entices any minor under
l[sixteen] years of age if a male, or under
2[eighteen] years of age if a female, or any person
of unsound mind, out of the keeping of the lawful
guardian of such minor or person of unsound mind,
without the consent of such guardian, is said to
kidnap such minor or person’ from __ lawful
guardianship. Explanation.—The words “lawful
guardian” in this section include any person lawfully
entrusted with the care or custody of such minor or
other person.”

Aggravated penetrative sexual assault is defined
in the section 5 of the POCSO Act. As per section 5,
penetrative sexual assault committed on the child
more than once or repeatedly falls in the category
8|Page

16.

17.

18.

of aggravated penetrative sexual assault. It is
evident that the victim was with the accused
person for about 8 (eight) months. Apart, from
evidence of victim the fact of the case _ itself
indicates that the accused made sexual intercourse
with the victim for more than once. It is the
established principle that minor consent is no
consent and as such on the ground of the consent
given by the victim the court will not get any
benefit.

The section 6 of the POCSO Act relates to
punishment for committing of aggravated sexual
assault which reads thus:-“6. Punishment for
aggravated penetrative sexual assault.- Whoever,
commits aggravated penetrative sexual assault,
Shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a
term which shall not be less than ten years but
which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall
also be liable to fine.”

In the view of the discussion made above | find
that the prosecution has succeeded in establishing
its case under sections 363 of the IPC/6 of the
POCSO Act.

ORDER

In the result, | find the accused person Shri Utpal
Debnath guilty under section 363 of the IPC/6 of the
POCSO Act and accordingly he is convicted.
9|Page

19.

20.

21.

22.

On the point of sentence, the accused person is
heard and to that effect his statement is recorded.
It has been submitted by the learned appearing on
behalf of the accused person that there is a no
evidence on record showing that the accused was
previously convicted by the Court of Law and as
such he deserve to be punished leniently. On the
other hand, the learned Public Prosecutor has
submitted that the accused needs to be punished
exemplary. Taking all aspects into consideration | do
hereby order the accused Sri Utpal Debnath to
undergo RI of 6 (Six) months for the section 363 IPC
and RI of 10 (Ten) years and to pay fine of Rs.
1000/- i/d SI of 2 (Two) months for the Section 6 of
the POCSO Act. Both sentences’ will run
concurrently. Set off earlier detention period. Let a
certified copy of the Judgment be furnished to the
accused person at free of cost. Also send a copy of
Judgment to the learned District Magistrate, Karbi
Anglong, Diphu.

No order has been passed in the light of section
357 A of the CrPC.

Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

Given under my hand and seal of the Court on
this 11" June, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me.
10| Page

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong Diphu, Karbi
Anglong

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Sri Haren Rajbongshi
PW2- Smti Manju Singh
PW3- Smti Niva Dutta
PW4- Smti Mina Rajbongshi
PW5- Smti Hunti Dutta
PW6- Smti Numali Medhi
PW7- Miss Rashmita Rajbongshi
PW8- Smti Anima Dutta
PW9- Dr. Atreyee Goswami
PW10- Sri Raju Das

PW11- Sri Moyurjit Gogoi

Defence Witnesses: Nil

Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Seizure List

Ext.3- Statement of the Victim
Ext.4- Medical Examination Report
Ext.5- Charge Sheet

Defence Exhibited: Nil
11|Page

Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam
