CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 46/15

Smt. Jyotshna Murah,
W/o- Late Lukesh Murah,
R/o- Jayanagar, Gutibari,
PS- Duliajan,

District- Dibrugarh.

Informant:

Accused: (1)
(2)

ADVOCATES:-

Sri Binod Kamti,

S/o- Late Maneswar Kamti,
R/o- Menatpur,

PS- Basapatty,

District- Madhubari (Bihar)
T/A: C/o- Manik Baruah,
R/o- Jayanagar,

PS- Duliajan,

District- Dibrugarh.

Sri Mohan Doom,

S/o- Late Debanand Doom,

R/o- Baraipur,

PS- Rampur, Bhagamanpur,

District- Chapra (Bihar)

T/A: C/o- Ravi Singh,

R/o- Daily Bazar, Near Laxmi Palace,
PS- Duliajan,

District- Dibrugarh.

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.
For the Defence: Mr. A. Rob, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH
Present: Smt. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 46/15
G.R. Case No. 1665/15

State of Assam
-/-
Sri Binod Kamti and another
Charges: Under Section 450/366 IPC and Section 6, read with Section 5(g) of the
POCSO Act.
Date of evidence on : 17-10-15, 17-12-15, 28-01-16, 29-03-16, 03-06-16,
07-09-16, 05-04-17 and 18-11-17.

Date of argument : 17-07-18.
Date of Judgment __: 16-11-18.

JUDGMENT

1) Prosecution case in a nutshell is that on 22-06-15, at about 7:30 pm, Sri
Mohan Das @ Doom and Sri Binud Kamti came to meet Natu Murah and as
Natu Murah was not present in the house and as the victim 'X', Natu Murah’s
younger sister was alone, they committed rape by brandishing a sword. An
ejahar regarding this incident was lodged by Smt. Jyotshna Murah
(hereinafter the informant) which was registered as Duliajan PS Case No.
252/15 under Section 376(D) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC for short), r/w
Section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act
for short) and SI Jiten Gogoi was endorsed with the investigation.

2) The investigating officer (IO for short) embarked upon the investigation. He
forwarded the victim for medical examination. He also forwarded her to the
Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure (CrPC for short). He prepared the Sketch-Map of the place
3)

4)

5)

6)

of occurrence and recorded the statements of the witnesses. He seized one
blanket, bed sheet, gamusa, underwear, empty bottle of Whisky, one
disposable glass, etc. He also seized mobile handsets, PAN Card, ATM Card,
etc. On finding prima facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet against the
accused persons under Section 376(D) IPC, r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act.
On appearance of the accused persons, copies were furnished and after
hearing both the sides, a formal charge under Sections 450/366/34 IPC, r/w
Section 6 POCSO Act was framed and read over and explained to the
accused. Both the accused persons abjured their guilt and claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of eleven
witnesses including the medical officer (MO for short) and the IO and
exhibited several documents, while the defense cross-examined the witnesses
to refute the charges. The answers of the accused persons to the
circumstances arising against them, depicts a plea of total denial.
SUBMISSIONS:
The learned Public Prosecutor Smt. Runumi Devi and learned Addl. Public
Prosecutor Mrs. Sahnaz Akhtar emphasized through their arguments that the
accused persons deserve stringent punishment while the learned defence
counsel Mr. A Rob laid stress in his argument that this case is fraught with
contradictions and replete with discrepancies and the accused persons
deserve to be acquitted.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

To decide the case in its proper perspective, the following points are apposite
for a just decision of this case:

i. Whether the accused persons on 22-06-18, acted in

furtherance of their common intention and committed
7)

8)

house trespass by entering into the house of Smt.
Jyotshna Murah in order to commit an offence?

ii. | Whether the accused persons acted in concert and in
furtherance of their common intention, abducted the
victim X by deceitful means in order that she may be
forced or seduced to illicit intercourse?

iii. | Whether the accused persons acted in concert and in
furtherance of their common _ intention, committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim ‘X’?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

To decide the case in its proper perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence.

The victim 'X' was 12 years at the time when she deposed in the Court on
17-10-15 as PW-3. She testified on oath that she came to know the accused
persons from the date of the occurrence which took place about seven
months ago (from 17-05-15). On that day, at about 9:00 pm, she along with
her mother and younger sister were sleeping inside their house. Then both
the accused persons broke into their house by kicking open the bamboo door.
They entered into her house and accused Binud Kamti kissed her on her lips
and thereafter, both of them took her away from her house on their
motorcycle. They shoved away her mother and took her away. Her brother Sri
Anil Murah was absent, as he went to Namrup to bring money. The accused
persons took her on the motorcycle to the Settlement Area at Daily Bazar and
they took her to a room of a hostel and made her lie on the bed inside the
room. Initially, Binud committed sexual intercourse with her and thereafter,

Mohan committed sexual intercourse with her. She raised alarm, but nobody
9)

came out, as there was nobody near the place of occurrence. After the act,
Mohan threatened her not to disclose about the incident, lest they would kill
her. Thereafter, both the accused persons left the room leaving her alone
inside the room and also leaving the door ajar. Mohan’s house is situated
across the road near the hostel. After the incident, she came out of the room
and she met Mohan and his elder brother who resides in the same house.
Her mother set out a frantic search for her and she went to the accused
Mohan’s house. She met her mother in Mohan’s house and narrated the
incident to her mother. Thereafter, she along with her mother went to the
Duliajan Police Station which was situated at a little distance away from their
house and she informed the police about the incident. On the said night, the
police took her in the vehicle to the room in the said hostel where the alleged
incident occurred. Mohan was sleeping in the room of the hostel where the
alleged incident occurred. She led the police to the room of the hostel and
the police apprehended Mohan and took him to the police station and the
other accused fled. The police took her to the hospital along with her mother
for medical examination. Thereafter, she was taken to the Assam Medical
College & Hospital, Dibrugarh on the next day at about 2:00 pm. She
sustained injuries on her hands, chest, back, belly and both legs. She was
brought to the Court for recording her statement. The police seized her
wearing apparels. At the time of the incident, she was wearing a frock.

After carefully scrutinizing the evidence of the victim, it is held that although
the victim is 12 years of age, her evidence does not inspire confidence. The
FIR is not corroborative to the testimony of this witness. In her cross-
examination, she testified that she did not know whether the hostel is a boys

or a girls hostel, but the inmates were present. She was cross-examined
regarding her omission of certain statements before the IO under Section 161
CrPC. This was not affirmed by the cross-examination of the IO. Although she
stated that she was 12 years of age, the MO’s evidence depicts that she was
above 14 years and below 16 years. The opinion of Dr. Nibedita Shyam as
PW-10 clearly depicts that the victim was below 16 years and above 14 years
of age. Her cross-examination also clearly depicts about a_ fiduciary
relationship between her brother and the accused persons. She has
categorically stated that her elder brother Anil Murah borrowed Rs. 800/-
from the accused persons and both the accused persons used to visit their
house demanding back their dues. Her brother used to hide inside the house
and her mother used to meet the accused persons whenever they visited
their house to demand back their dues. Moreover, she made two
contradictory statements. In her evidence-in-chief, she testified that Mohan
went to his house after the act, but later she testified that the police found
Mohan inside the hostel room after the incident.

10) The victim’s mother Smt. Jyotshna Murah testified as PW-2 that both the
accused persons are known to her and her daughter is 12 years of age. The
incident took place about three months ago while she was staying at
Joyanagar along with her two daughters and one son. On the day of the
incident, while they were sleeping inside their house, both the accused
persons kicked opened the door and barged into their house. Her son Anil
was not present at home and they demanded Rs. 800/- which her son Anil
borrowed from them. Then both the accused persons took their daughter
along with them on the motorcycle. She ran after them to save her daughter.
Then she went to the accused person’s aunt's house to ask her if they took

her daughter to their house. She also went to the Duliajan Police Station and
informed verbally about the incident. She met the accused Mohan’s elder
brother and narrated him about the incident. Mohan’'s elder brother called
him over phone and asked him where he was at that time. Then Mohan came
out of the house in which her daughter was locked inside and confined.
Thereafter, her daughter was taken out from the locked house with the help
Mohan’s elder brother. Her daughter informed her that both the accused
persons committed rape on her one after another inside the house and she
sustained injuries on her private parts. Then she went to the police station
along with her daughter and her daughter was taken to the OIL Hospital at
Duliajan. She also lodged the ejahar with the police at Duliajan. The police
recorded her statement and the statement of her daughter and she was
forwarded to the Assam Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh. Her daughter
was also forwarded to the Magistrate.

11) It is pertinent to mention at this stage that the statement of the victim under
Section 164 CrPC depicts that the accused persons broke their bamboo door
and demanded Rs. 800/- which her brother borrowed from them. Then the
accused persons gagged her demanding that next morning, they will get her
daughter after the money is paid. This statement of the victim is inconsistent
to her testimony. She was silent about this fact that the accused demanded
money and then they kidnapped her stating that she will be released only if
the money if paid. However, during her cross-examination, it was unravelled
by the defense that the accused persons lent Rs. 800/- to Anil. The statement
of the victim under Section 164 CrPC also depicts that she was taken to a
house, but her testimony in the Court depicts that she was taken to a hotel.
Moreover, her statement under Section 164 CrPC depicts that the accused

persons displayed obscene movies when they committed rape on her and
when she refused to have physical relationship with them, they hit her with a
brick. On the contrary, she was silent about this incident, when she testified
in the Court as PW-3. These contradictions casts a shadow of doubt over the
veracity of her evidence. Moreover, the contradictions between her evidence
and her mother’s evidence also casts a shadow of doubt over the veracity of
the evidence of both the witnesses. In her cross-examination, PW-2 testified
that she did not notice any mark of injury on her daughter. This negates the
fact that the accused persons assaulted the victim 'X' with a piece of brick on
her head when she resisted as she has mentioned in her statement under
Section 164 CrPC. The seized articles were not exhibited in presence of PWs-
2 and 3. This is also a discrepancy in the evidence. It is not clear from the
evidence of PW-2 and from the statement of the victim under Section 164
whether the second place of occurrence where the alleged rape is alleged to
have committed, is a house or a hostel. However, PW-3 insisted that the
second place of occurrence is a hostel. On the contrary, her mother testified
that Mohan came out of a house, inside which her daughter was assaulted
and Mohan’s elder brother brought out PW-3 from the locked house.

12)The evidence of the medical officer Dr. Nibedita Shyam depicts that on
23-06-15, while working as GDMO in the Department of Forensic Medicine,
Assam Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh, she examined the victim 'X' in
connection with this case and found the following:

On genital examination: Genital organs were well
developed. Vulva: Labia minora are reddened on inner aspect,
tender on touch. Hymen: Recent tear present at 3, 6 & 10 O’ clock
position, margins of which are oedematous, reddened, tender and

bleeds on touch. Vagina is healthy and rugosed. Cervix healthy
and Os closed. Uterus not palpable per abdominally. Vaginal
smears were taken on glass slides from posterior fornix in and
around the vagina and the result shows presence of intact non-
motile spermatozoa.

13) The MO further testified on the basis of Physical examination, Radiological &
Laboratory Investigation done on the victim 'X', she was of the opinion that-

i. Evidence of recent sexual intercourse detected on her person;
ii. Evidence of injury detected on her private parts as described in
20(b) & 20(c);
iii. | Her age is above 14 years and below 16 years.
Ext. 3 is the Medico-legal Report wherein Ext. 3(1) to Ext. 3(3) are the
signatures of the MO.

14) According to her opinion, there was evidence of recent sexual intercourse and
injuries in private part of the victim. She detected hymenal tear at 3 O’ clock,
6 O’ clock and 10 O’ clock position, the margins which are oedematus,
redden, tender and bleed on touch.

15) Beside the injuries on the private parts, no other injuries were detected by
the MO on the victim. Although the victim stated under Section 164 CrPC that
the accused persons hit her on her forehead with a piece of brick, the doctor
did not detect any injuries on her forehead. Beside the fact that the injuries
of sexual intercourse were detected on the private parts of the victim, the
veracity of her evidence is such that a benefit of doubts goes to the accused
persons. Although the victim is a minor below 16 years of age, her conduct is
shady and under a cloud of suspicion.

16) It is also pertinent to mention at this juncture that the victim’s elder brother

Anil Murah was also not examined as a witness. The victim has given her
10

thumb impression on her statement under Section 164 CrPC, as she studied
only upto Class-III.

17) The Judicial Magistrate Mrs. D Dutta testified as PW-6 that on 23-06-15,
while working as Magistrate, she recorded the statement of the victim 'X' in
connection with this case. The victim was accompanied by WPC-432 Rina
Chakraborty. Ext. 3 is the statement of the victim X.

18) It has already been held in my foregoing discussions that the statement of
the victim under Section 164 CrPC is not consistent to her testimony in the
Court.

19) PW-1 Sri Dulal Borah testified that the accused persons are known to him
while the informant and the victim are not known to him. The incident
occurred on 22-06-16. Mohan Doom was working as a helper in his rented
house. On the next day, the police called him over phone and he saw both
the accused persons in the police station. He learnt that both the accused
persons committed rape on a girl.

20)The evidence of Dulal Bora clearly depicts that it is true that there are
charges against the accused persons in this case and he heard from the
accused persons that the accused committed rape on the victim. His evidence
cannot be relied to fasten the guilt on the accused persons.

21)Sri Mintu Gogoi testified as PW-4 that he came to know the accused persons
from the date of the incident which took place about five months ago. He
was on duty as a security personnel at a Bank situated at Duliajan. On the
day of the incident, at about 12:00 noon, he went to one room of Sri Rupam
Kumar Barman situated at Daily Bazar. The police came to the house and
stopped him and the police took the accused persons with them to the room

and seized one bed sheet from the room in his presence and in the presence
11

of Rupam Kumar Barman. Ext. 1 is the Seizure List and Ext. 1(1) is his
signature.

22) It is true that the police seize a bed sheet, but no forensic report regarding a
bed sheet has been submitted in the Court. The evidence of PWs-1 and 4
does not at all implicate that the accused persons are complicit.

23) Sri Babu Ali testified as PW-5 that the incident took place about 5/6 months
ago. The victim's elder brother is known to him. On the following day of the
incident, the victim’s elder brother informed him over phone that some
incident had taken place and he asked him to go to the police station. When
he arrived at the police station, the victim’s elder sister whose name is Putali
informed him that the accused persons had committed rape on her sister and
he saw the victim at the police station.

24) This evidence of Bibu Ali was not helpful, because the victim’s elder sister
was not examined as a witness and his evidence remained hearsay, which
cannot be accepted. Moreover, Bibu Ali did not know why the police took his
thumb impression on some papers.

25) Similarly, the evidence of PW-7 also did not support the prosecution case.
Smt. Mina Devi testified as PW-7 that the accused Binud Kanti is her son and
other accused Mohan Doom is her neighbour. Jyotshna Murah is also known
to her. She borrowed money from her son and she did not know anything
about the incident.

26) Smt. Lalita Phukan testified as PW-8 that the accused persons are known to
her. She was a tenant in Sri Bharat Gogoi’s hosue. On the night of the
incident, she heard a commotion and came out from her house and asked her
neighbours about the incident. Then her neighbour told her that her daughter

was taken by two boys on a bike. Then her neighbour went in search for her
12

daughter. On the next day, she learnt that her neighbour recovered her
daughter with the help of the police.

27) Similarly, Smt. Kamles Devi testified as PW-9 that the incident took place
about one year ago. Jyotshna Murah was her tenant at that time. On the next
day of the incident, she learnt from Jyotshna Murah that two persons came to
their house and took her daughter on the previous night. Later on, the police
recovered the victim girl.

28) After scrutinizing the evidence of PWs-8 and 9, it is held that the evidence is
very vague. They have not implicated the accused persons although they
have testified that two boys took Jyotshna Murah’s daughter on a bike. It is
also not clear from the evidence whether the boys took the victim 'X'
forcefully or whether the victim willingly went with the accused persons.

29) The IOs evidence also did not help improving the prosecution case.

30) The IO Sri Jiten Gogoi testified as PW-11 that on 22-06-15, while posted as
Attached Officer, the OC Sri Rajib Saikia endorsed him with the investigation
of the case on the basis of an FIR lodged at the police station. Ext. 4 is the
FIR and Ext. 4(1) is the signature of Sri Rajib Saikia. On the same night, he
recorded the statement of the victim and the informant and went in search of
the accused persons and apprehended Mohan Doom at Daily Bazar and after
interrogation, he went to Joya Nagar, but could not find him in his house. In
the morning, the victim was forwarded to the Assam Medical College &
Hospital at Dibrugarh for medical examination and she was also forward to
the Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. Two
mobile phones were seized from Mohan Doom, one PAN Card was also seized
and the PAN Card was the victim’s elder brother's PAN Card. One ATM Card

was also seized from Mohan Doom. Ext. 5 is the Seizure-List and Ext. 5(2) is
13

his signature. The accused Binud Kamti was produced in the police station by
his mother. He prepared the Sketch-Map as shown by the accused persons.
Ext. 6 is the Sketch-Map and Ext. 6(10 is his signature. As shown by the
accused persons, he seized one coloured blanket, one white coloured printed
blanket with semen like stain, one green coloured gamusa with semen
coloured stain, one purple coloured underwear used by Mohan Doom, one
empty Officers Choice whisky bottle without cap, one glass and three
disposable glasses which were lying on the wooden bed. Ext. 1 is the Seizure-
List and Ext. 1(2) is his signature. On the same day, he seized one motorcycle
used by the accused persons. Ext. 7 is the Seizure-List and Ext. 7(1) is his
signature. On the said date, he seized one black coloured skirt with semen
like stain, one white and stripped with black stain from the possession of the
victim. Ext. 8 is the Seizure-List and Ext. 8(1) is his signature. On the next
day, he forwarded the accused persons to the Court. He recorded the
statements of the witnesses and also collected the Medico-legal Report from
the Assam Medical College & Hospital at Dibrugarh. On 21-06-15, he went to
the victim's house and he also prepared the Sketch-Map of the house from
where the victim was taken. Ext. 9 is the Seizure-List and Ext. 9(1) is his
signature. On finding sufficient materials against the accused persons, he
submitted Charge-Sheet against them under Sections 376(D) IPC, read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act. Ext. 10 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 10(1) is his
signature. Material Ext. 5(A) is one white coloured Intex mobile, Material Ext.
5(B) is one Nokia mobile phone black colour. Material Ext. 5(C) is one PAN
Card in the name of the elder brother of the victim. Material Ext. 5(D) is one
ATM Card, Material Ext. 1(A) is the empty bottle of Officers Choice whisky of

375 ml without cap. Material Ext. 1(B) is one glass and three numbers of
14

tumblers. The other articles seized, i.e., the motorcycle was given in zimma to
the owner by the Court.

31) The IO is not authorised to opine about the semen like substance. It was the
duty of the IO to forward the articles with semen like stain for FSL
examination. But the investigation was conducted in a lackadaisical manner
and there is no formal report from the forensic record to affirm semen
detected from any blanket, bed sheet or underwear or other such articles.

32)It has already been held in my foregoing discussions that the victim's
evidence does not inspire confidence. Her statement under Section 164 CrPC
is not similar to their testimony in the Court. In her testimony, she has given
a description that she was abandoned by the accused persons in the room in
the hostel after the act. But later, she again testified that Mohan Doom was
found in the room in the hostel. Her mother testified as PW-2 that her
daughter was taken to a house. her mother did not mention anything about
the room in a hostel. The IO testified as PW-11 that he apprehended Mohan
Doom at Daily Bazar and after interrogation, he went to Jayanagar, but could
not find him in his house. The evidence appears to be very clumsy and
uncorroborative. The victim's statement under Section 164 CrPC depicts that
the accused persons forcefully took her and then asked her mother to pay
back Rs. 800/- if they want back their daughter, but such statement was not
given in the Court. Papuli and Anil were not examined as witnesses. They
were important witnesses. The victim gave her age falsely as 12 years, but
the doctor detected that the victim was above 14 years and below 16 years.

33)In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that this case is replete
with contradictions and both the accused persons gets the benefit of doubt

despite the fact that they are alleged with a serious offence under Section
15

376(D) IPC and Section 6 of POCSO Act. It is also held that the prosecution
failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused persons acted in
concert and in furtherance of their common intention, committed gang rape
on the victim. It is also held that the prosecution failed to prove beyond
reasonable doubt that the accused persons acted in concert, committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim 'X'. Thereby, both the
accused persons are acquitted from the charges under Sections 450/366 IPC
and Section 6, read with Section 5(g) of the POCSO Act on benefit of doubt
and they are set at liberty forthwith.

34) Destroy the seized articles as per law.

35)The victim 'X' does not deserve compensation and so this case is not
recommended for compensation under the Victims Compensation Scheme.
Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 16" day of

November, 2018.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
16

POCSO Case No. 46/15
APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 Sri Dulal Borah;
PW-2 Smt. Jyotshna Murah;
PW-3 The victim 'X';
PW-4 Sri Mintu Gogoi;
PW-5 Sri Babu Ali;
PW-6 Smt. D Dutta;
PW-7 Smt. Mina Devi;
PW-8 Smt. Lalita Phukan;
PW-9 Smt. Kamles Devi;
. PW-10 Dr. Nibedita Shyam;
11. PW-11 Sri Jiten Gogoi.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Seizure-List;
Ext. 2 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;

sen fv eS mw

—
So

Ext. 3 Medico-legal Report;
Ext. 4 Ejahar;

Ext. 5 Seizure-List;

Ext. 6 Sketch-Map;

Ext. 7 Seizure-List;

Ext. 8 Seizure-List;

Ext. 9 Sketch-Map; and
10. Ext. 10 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

@en Sa wu Fw WN

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
