Page 1 of 9

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused.u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsehfor the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

24 OF 2016
(Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 1032 of
2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
State of Assam

-“VSs-
Sri Raju Choudhury
Son of Late Ganga Choudhury,
Resident of Lalmati
Police Station — Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam

13-07-2016.

29-11-2016 & 13-07-2017

13-07-2017

13-07-2017

13-07-2017

Mrs. M. Ch. Baruah,
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. A. Bhuyan, Advocate.
Page 2 of 9

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Raju Choudhury is put for trial for allegation of
charge under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR, in brief, is that on or about 9.30
p.m. of 09-04-2016 while the informant’s 14 years minor daughter and 8 years
son were sleeping, accused attempted to enter into the house of the informant
secretly and out of fear informant’s minor raised alarm. On hearing alarm, the
informant went out and noticed that accused ran away from their house.
Immediately, she also raised alarm. The local people caught the.accused red
handed. The accused was involved in such type of bad activitiesvin earlier many
occasions. Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar wassfiled by informant
Smt. Chandrabati Devi @ Mukhia on 09-04-2016. before the I/C of Lalmati
Police Out Post under Tezpur Police station. The.ejahar was signed by many

local public.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, the Incharge of Lalmati Out Post by giving the
GD Entry No. 180 dated 10-04-2016 forwarded the same to Officer-In-Charge
of Tezpur Police Station for registering a case. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C of
Tezpur Police station registered)a case being Tezpur P.S. Case No. 567/16 u/s
457/376/511/323 of IPC. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C
Tezpur Police Station sent up the accused for trial by filing charge sheet u/s
457/376/511.1PC.against the accused Sri Raju Choudhury.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
parties,framed charge under section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused
and. particulars of the charge was read over, explained to the accused to which

he pleads not guilty and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as four
numbers of witnesses which includes the victim, mother of the victim and
neighbour. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the statement of
the victim, her mother and the nighbour no way supported the prosecution
case. Hence, praying for closing the evidence. Even if examined the other
witnesses with the evidence of the victim prosecution case would not develop.

Learned Public Prosecutor also conceded. I have thoroughly, perused the

 
Page 3 of 9

statement of the victim, mother of the victim and the nighbour. It also appears
that none of the statement of the witnesses reveals any materials against the
accused as to the alleged offence. Therefore, I think that it would be futile to
examine the other witnesses. Even if examined the other witnesses,
prosecution case would not develop. Speedy trial is the right of the accused
persons. Considering these aspects, prosecution evidence is closed. Accused is
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and
evidence appears against the accused are put before him for explanation where

he denied the allegations and declined to adduce defence evidence.

6. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned ‘counsels of both
sides.
7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) “Whether on 09-04-2016, at Lalmati.Tior Basti, under Tezpur
Police station the accused sexually assaulted Miss X (a child below
18 years of age) and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 8 of the Protection.of Child from Sexual Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions.and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on

record.

9. PW 1 Dr. Bibhanoni Keot, stated that on 11-04-2016 she was posted as
Sr. Medical & Health Officer-1 in the Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on
that dayat about 1.50 p.m. in the labour room complex of KCH, she examined
Miss Maya Kumari, 16 years, female, D/O late Bhutuli Mukhiya of Lalmati, Teor
basti Tezpur, in reference to Lalmati OP GDE No. 567/16 dated 11-04-2016
u/s 457/376/511/323 of the IPC, on being escorted and identified by WPC 547
Banti Mech. History — pm 09-04-2016 at 9.30 p.m. a boy named Raju
Choudhury entered into the living room and while she was sleeping, he lifted
the mosquito net and the girl shouted. No history of sexual exposure. On
examination, no external injury seen. Ext. 1 is her report and Ext.1(1) is her

signature.

 
Page 4 of 9

10. PW 2 Smt. Chandrawati Devi (Mukhia), mother of the victim girl, stated
that she knows the accused. At the relevant time, the victim attained the age of
18 years. At the relevant time the victim along with her 8 years son Dinesh
were sleeping. On hearing the shouting of her daughter, she came out and saw
that accused ran away from their house. Then she also raised alarm. On
hearing her alarm local people gathered there and caught the accused. Of
course, her daughter did not state anything to her. Then he filed the Ext. 2.and
Ext. 2(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she did not know. the contents
of the ejahar. She also admitted that both the complainant-and accused are
belonging to different caste. For this type of many reasons, they have a quarrel
in between them. There is a road adjacent to theirshouse. In between the road
and house there is no any wall. Therefore, any*person can easily enter into
their house. By the said road people used as a through from. While she raised
alarm on suspect local people caught the accused and according to the
direction of public and also the.writings of the public she put her signature in

the ejahar.

11. PW 3, Smt. Kushmi Mukhiya stated that she knows the accused who
belongs to their-village. She also knows the victim who is the daughter of the
complainant. Her house is adjacent to her house. At the relevant time, accused
Raju went to the house of the complainant. When there was a hullah, local
people caught hold of the accused by shouting “thief, thief”. In the house of
the*victim, in one room complainant resides, in other room a young girl was
sleeping. While the young girl (18 years) looks towards outside as the door was
opened she noticed a man infront of their gate, so she raised alarm. Local
people caught him. Thereafter with the signature of local people the

complainant filed the ejahar.

In cross-examination, she admitted that there is a quarrel in between
the complainant and the accused for a long time. She also admitted that there
is a road adjacent to the house of the complainant where local people used the

road day and night.

 
Page 5 of 9

12. PW 4 Miss X, the victim stated that she knows the accused. The incident
took place about one and half years ago. At the relevant time, at about 9/9.30
p.m. she along with her 8 years old younger brother was sleeping. In the other
room her mother was watching TV. She doubted somebody has entered. So
she looks towards the road and saw Raju Choudhury was standing infront of
their door. She called her mother and brother. Then on hearing her hullah, her
mother and brother came. They also raised alarm. Local public caught the
accused. In fact accused did not do anything to her. Thereafter, her mother
filed this case. After filing the case her statement was recorded through the
Magistrate. Ext. 3 is her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and Ext. 3(1) to°3(3) are her

signatures.

In cross-examination, she admitted that their house’is adjacent to the
road. On being seen the accused on the road, out of fear she raised alarm. Her
mother and local people on suspect filed this case. While she made statement
before the learned Magistrate she made statement according to the dictation of

the police personnel.

13. These much is the evidence‘of the prosecution case. Defence plea is of

total denial.

14. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution has

failed to prove the charge against the accused beyond any reasonable doubt.
15. Here in this case, the case is charged u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.

To brought the charge under section 8 of the Protection of Child from

SexuahOffences (POCSO) Act, prosecution must prove that —

Section 7 - sexual assault-

“Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child
touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or
any other person, or does any other act with sexual
intent’ which’ involves” physical contact without
penetration is said to commit sexual assault.

This clause defines the offence of sexual assault.
It provides that a person is said to commit sexual assault
if he with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus
or breast of the child or makes the child touch the
vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other
person, or does any other act with sexual intent which
involves physical contact without penetration.”
ft
Page 6 of 9

16. A close scrutiny of the record, it appears that in this type of case, the
evidence of the victim is most important.

Law is well settled that in a case of rape, the onus is always on the
prosecution to prove affirmatively each ingredient of the offence it seeks to
establish and such onus never shifts. It is no part of the duty of the defence to
explain as to how and why in a rape case the victim and her mother have
falsely implicated the accused. The main evidence in all such cases.is that of
the victim herself. In practice a conviction for rape almost entirely depends on
the credibility of the woman, so far as the essential ingredients. are concerned,
the other evidence being merely corroborative. It is not necessary that there
should be independent corroboration of every material, circumstance in the
sense that the independent evidence in the case, apart’from the testimony of
the complainant, should in itself be sufficient to ‘sustain conviction. All that is
required is that there must be some additional evidence rendering it probable
that the story of the complainant istrue and that it is reasonably safe to act
upon it. The evidence, no doubt, ‘should not only make it safe to believe that
the crime was committed but.must in some way reasonable connect or tend to
connect the accused with the crime. Corroboration may be by facts and

circumstances.

17. Here in.this case, it appears that victim PW 4 who deposed her age is
19 years on 13-07-2017. It is interesting to note that though initially, the victim
was examined by doctor PW 1 but her report is silent as to the findings of age
on ossification test. Though she admitted that as per requisition slip her age is
mentioned as 16 years but Doctor could not arrived her age on proper
ossification test. Hence writing of age of the minor as 16 years cannot be
accepted when the victim herself stated that her age is 19 years on the date of
deposition i.e. on 13-07-2017. That apart, the complainant, PW 2 who is the
mother of the victim stated that at the relevant time, the age of her victim
daughter was 18 years. PW 2 being the mother of the victim supposed to be
known better of each of her daughter. On the other hand, the I.O. has failed to
procure any age certificate or birth certificate of the victim or the certificate of

the school authority where the victim first studied.

 
Page 7 of 9

It has been held by Hon’ble Apex Court in the case of Jaymala Vs.
State of J & K reported in AIR SC 1982 that “according to the Medical
Jurisprudence the age reported by the doctor can be varied two years on either

side.”

Coming to the instant case, though the doctor reported about the age
of the victim is 16 years not on ossification test, that was her mere opinion. In
applying the principle of Medical Jurisprudence, her age can be stated«as in
between 14 and 18 years. Besides, the victim, the mother of the victim ‘also
stated that victim’s age is 18 years. Considering that aspect, this case cannot
lie under the POCSO Act.

Whatever it may be if we forget about the.age factor whether in
considering the statement of the victim accused“can, be convicted that has

looked into.

Victim/PW 4 stated that she knows the accused and the incident took
place at about one and half years agovat about 9/9.30 p.m. while she along
with 8 years brother were in bed...[he room where she and her younger
brother were sleeping is situated\just adjacent to the room where her mother
watching TV. On suspect that somebody has come so she looks towards the
road where she noticed accused Raju Choudhury was standing infront of their
door. She called-her_mother and brother. Accordingly, they came and they also
raised alarm. They also noticed accused went out from their house. Local
people caught the accused. Hence, at the instigation of local people her mother
filed the ejahar. In cross-examination she admitted that their house is adjacent
to-the»public road. She also admitted that on being seen the accused on the
road, she raised alarm out of fear. Then her mother and local people on
suspect filed the case. She also admitted that while she made statement before
the learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C, she made statement at the instigation of
the police. Therefore, the victim gives goodbye to the prosecution case. The
another important witness is the mother of the victim, PW 2, who is also the
complainant of this case, also stated that at the relevant time her victim
daughter is aged about 18 years. Her daughter along with her 8 years son

Dinesh was sleeping in bed. She heard raising alarm of her daughter and she

 
Page 8 of 9

came out and noticed that accused ran away from their house. While she raised
alarm local people caught the accused. But her daughter did not state anything
to her. Then she filed the ejahar. In cross-examination she admitted that she
did not know the contents of the ejahar. She also stated that accused belongs
to other community. Due to many reasons they have a quarrel with the
accused. She also admitted that their house and road are adjacent and in
between the road and the house there is no any wall. Therefore, any person
can easily enter into their house. By the road, people were loitering in.day and
night. She also admitted that as she raised alarm so upon suspect ocal people
instigated her to file this case. Therefore, the complainant who is the.mother of

the victim appears to have not supported the prosecution case invany means.

18. Therefore, I do not have any opt but acquit the accused Sri Raju
Choudhury and set him at liberty forthwith.

19. = The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

The GR Case No. 1032/16 be returned to the learned committal court

with a copy of this order.

Given under my Hand.and Seal of this Court on this the 13" day of July,
2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
Prosecution Witness No.1

Prosecution Witness No.2

Prosecution Witness No.3

Prosecution Witness No.4

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3

Page 9 of 9

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- Dr. Bibha Noni Keot.
‘= Smt. Chandrawati Devi, complainant
is Smt. Kushmi Mukhiya.

= Victim.

EXHIBITS.

'- Medical Report
so Ejahar.
:- 164Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
