IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL
JUDGE:::CACHAR,SILCHAR

Present: Sri K. Choudhury,AJS
Sessions Judge
Cachar, Silchar.

Special (POCSO) Case No. 1/2015

Sukur Ahmed
S/o Asadin Rahman
PS &Dist.Karimganj,Assam
eceeeeeenes Accused
Vs
State ofAssam hase Complainant.
Date of Evidence : 27/04/15, 19/05/15, 24/06/15,
06/07/15, 27/07/15, 24/08/15 &
19/11/15
Date of Argument : 10/12/15
Date of Judgment : 21/12/15
Advocate appeared:

Sri Ikbal Bahar Laskar, Advocate appeared for the Accused

Sri S.D. Dutta, Ld. P.P., for the State of Assam.
JUDGMENT

1. Brief fact of the case of the prosecution as emanated
from the written FIR is that on 15/12/14, at about 8 am, the
daughter of the informant,here in below named as
victim,completed her reading in a Mosque near Chandpur
Part-II, the accused being the Imam of the Mosque, the
accused detained her and allowed the others to leave the
mosque and asked the victim to clean his room. While she
started sweeping the room, the accused entered therein and
bolted the door from inside. Thereafter the accused forcibly
removed her clothes with ill intention and while started to
rubbish her she raised alarm. The accused then opened the
door and the victim came out. She was rescued by local
people. Accused was confined and police was informed. FIR

was lodged accordingly.

2. The FIR was registered as Lakhipur P.S. Case No.
284/14, U/S 342/323 IPC, and read with Section 8 of POCSO
Act, 2012 and endorsed the same in the name of S.I.

Sarbeswar Saikia to complete the investigation.
3. During investigation, the victin was _ medically
examined and she alsogave' statement before the
MagistrateU/S 164 Cr.PC narrating the incident. On
completion of the investigation, I.0. submitted charge sheet
U/S 342/323 IPC, read with Section 8 of the POCSO Act’2012.

4. On production of the accused and on furnishing the
copies of relevant documents U/S 173(2) CrPC, to the
accused the Ld. SDJM, Cachar, Silchar committed the
offences.

5. This court after hearing both sides and on perusal of
the materials on record framed charges U/S 342 IPC and
Sec.8 of POCSO ACT’2012.The charges were read over and

explained, to which he pleaded not guilty. Hence trial begun.

6. To prove the case prosecution examined as many as
12 witnesses including the doctor and the I.0. Most of the
material witnesses turned hostile and they were cross
examined by the prosecution. Defence plea is that the
accused assaulted the victim for non -performance of home-
work / study.The accused was examined Under Sec.313

CrPC. He claimed all the previous statements of the hostile
witnesses,as confirmed by the I.O. as false. According to him,
at the material time he was an Imam of the mosque and the
victim did not attend classes for 2/3 days and for her
attention he canned her 2/3 times and for that victim went
out crying. After 1/2 hours after that the inmates of the
victim came to the mosque and raised hue and cry and he
was rescued by one Nijam Uddin. Thereafter police came and

took him.

7. To substantiate the same he examined two witnesses
as DW.

8. Points for the Determination:

a) Whether, under the facts and circumstances of this
case, the accused wrongfully confined the victim and thereby
committed offence punishable U/S 342 IPC?

b) Whether, the said facts and circumstances of this case,
the accused committed sexual assault upon the victim and
thereby committed offence punishable U/S 8 of the POCSO
Act?
9. To decide this case, I have heard Ld. Counsel of both

sides and perused the entire evidence on the record.

10. Ld. P.P. in view of the turning of the material
witnesses as hostile has submitted that court is to appreciate
the evidence on the record taking into consideration the

evidence in its entirety for arriving at the decision.

11. On the contrary the Ld. Defence Counsel has
submitted that the accused as a teacher has not committed
any offence by caning for nonperformance of studies as come

out in the evidence of all material witnesses.

12. Under such circumstances let the evidence be

discussed:-

PW-10 is Dr. Monalisa Deb, According to her,she on
16/12/14 examined the victim girlwho andher accompanying
mother disclosed that on 15/12/14 at around 8 a.m. the
victim had gone to mosque nearby her house. Mulla (Imam)
of the Masjid asked the victim to clean his room and while
she was doing so the Mulla forcibly opened her garments and

he (Mulla) himself opened his pent and forcibly dragged her,
but the victim somehow kicked the Mulla and was able to
escape and ran away. Ext.2 is the medical report. Defence
suggestion is that the history as recorded by the doctor was

not actually narrated by the victim.

13. PW.9 being an SDJM deposed that on 17/12/14 he
recorded the statement of the victim in connection with the
relevant case. Ext.1 is the statement. He further deposed
that before recording the statement he put some questions to
test the intelligence with regard to the capacity of giving
statement and the victim was found competent. He further
deposed that the victim was asked to clean the floor of the
Masjid at the time of attending the class and while she was
cleaning, the accused pressed her chest and on being
objected he bit her with fist and pressed her to the wall and
also removed herpanty by gagging her mouth etc., but she
somehow escaped. The learned SDJM in the cross denied

that he reading the FIR led the victim to say accordingly.

14. — PW.1 is the victim. PW.2 is the informant, the father of
the victim. PW.3 is the mother of the victim. PW.4 is a minor
girl. PW.5 is the close door neighbour of the victim. PW.6 is
another minor girl. Of them except PW.3 all of them were

declared hostile by the prosecution and their previous
statements as made before the IO u/s 164 Cr.PC and also
made by PW 1 before the magistrate were brought in to the

record in the cross examination.

15. PW.7 and PW.8 were also declared hostile by the
prosecution. Similarly their previous statements were brought
into the record by the prosecution in their cross examination.
Although they were declared hostile by the prosecution for
giving different story as disclosed before the police,
Magistrate and also in the FIR,but it remains unrebutted that
at the material time the victim being a minor was assaulted at
the mosque by the accused. According to the hostile
witnesses it was a mere assault fornonperformance of
studies. But as per the FIR and previous statements
confirmed by the Magistrate and the IO the accused at the
material time confined the victim in a room and also sexually

assaulted her.

16. Now, question arises, whether the statement made
earlier before the Magistrate at the time of investigation and
also before the police supported by history recorded by the
doctor and also the FIR can be used as evidence. The victim
in her evidence in examination in chief deposed that she

failed to answer the question put by the accused and for that
she was asked to sweep the mosque and by this time all the
students left the premises of the mosque and she swept the
premises. She further deposed that accused did nothing more
than that. She denied all the implicating statements made
before the Magistrate. During cross by the defence, she
stated that the accused for non-preparation of homework
assaulted her with cane and accordingly she reported the
matter to her mother and thus her father lodged ejhar.
Therefore, it appears that the victim concealed the real facts
stating that accused did nothing except asking to sweep the
mosque and in the cross examination she stated that the

accused caned her.

17. | Accordingly other hostile witnesses also contradicted
their previous statements.PW-8 being a declared hostile
witness though denied his previous implicating statement, but
stated that after arrival of the police maternal uncle of the
victim gave statement in his presence to the effect that the
accused committed rape on the victim and he asserted the

same in the cross examination made by the defence.

18. Therefore, it clearly reveals that for mere assault the
FIR was not lodged against the accused and whatever is

written by the IO was actually stated to him. In his
examination in chief it is deposed that at the material time he
hearing hue and cry went to the mosque and found the
complainant and other were making hue and cry and the
accused was inside the mosque. The complainant wanted to
assault the accused asking him to come out. He further
deposed that he managed to take away the accused from the
mosque and he took the accused to the house of one Abdul
Bari and on query the accused told that the accused
assaulted the daughter of the complainant. It thus appears
to be not believable at all that for mere assault without any
injury there would be such a hue and cry. Had there been
actual assaults by cane the doctor would have found the sign

of injury.

19. | DW-2 in his cross examination stated that about 20/30
people gharoed the mosque and the accused out of fear to
save his life concealed himself in the mosque. Subsequently
police took him. If it be so, it is difficult to believe that only
for caning the victim for non performance of study the people
of the locality would assemble in the mosque to attack a
teacher.Had there been actually any caning it also would
have been disclosed by the victim in her examination. That
being so the above circumstances clearly indicate that the
accused did something abnormal greater than that of mere

wrong in the eye of the local people.The above deduction
10

gets support from the statement come out from the mouth
of DW-1 who _ in his cross examination stated that at the
material time 10/12 villagers gharoedthe masjid and started
howling and the accused out of fear and to save his life
concealed himself inside the mosque and the people
gathered there pulled him out and subsequently handed over
to the police and subsequently the accused was released
from the post of Imam. He further stated that allegation was
brought against the accused was that accused was involved
in many sexual acts. The above statement being comes out
from the mouth of the DW it can be safely be arrived at that
the statements as recorded by the IO and the Magistrate
was actually disclosed by the material hostile witnesses
before the IO and also by the victim before the Magistrate at
the earliest opportunity, and therefore there is no reason to
disbelieve the statement of the Magistrate and the IO.
However, as the victim in her evidence uttered nothing
against the accused with regard to sexual assault the accused
is entitled to get benefit from the offence of charge of section
8 of the POCSO Act but the admitted assault, under the facts
and circumstances of the case without any grave and sudden
provocation, is an offence under the Section 352 of I.P.C.

20. In view of the above discussions on the evidence on
the record and appreciation thereof, it is held the charges as
framed u/s 342 IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act is not
11

proved beyond all reasonable doubts but prosecution case is
only proved u/s 352 IPC beyond all reasonable doubts.

Accordingly, the accused is held guilty and convicted.
Heard the accused on the question of sentence.

21. Considering all aspect, I convict and sentence the
accused u/s 352 of IPC to pay a fine of Rs. 500/- ( five
hundred ) and i/d_ S.I. for 15 days.

22. The copy of this judgment be furnished to the accused
as per provision of section 363 Cr.P.C.free of cost and a copy
of the judgment be forwarded to the D.M.Cachar as per

provision of section 365 Cr.P.C.
Bail bond stand cancelled.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court

under my seal and signature on this 21st_day of December 2015.

Dictated and corrected by

Sessions Judge Cachar

(K.Choudhury)
Sessions Judge,

Cachar.Silchar.
12

Dictation taken & transcribed by K.Bhattacharjee,Stenographer

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR

 

Spl. POCSO Case No.1 of 15
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW 1 —-Smti. Bobi Begam,

PW 2 — Md.Nur Uddin,

PW 3 — Smti.Ibheam Begam,
PW 4—Smti Najmin Akthart,
PW.5 — Smti Bebul Nessa
PW.6— Smti Saina Begam,

PW 7 — Sri Manik Mia,

PW 8 — Sri Nija Uddin Ali,

PW 9 — Sri Kiron Lal Baishanab
PW.10 — Smti Monalisa Deb, MO
PW.11-—Sri Sarbeswar Saikia
PW 12 — Dr. Y.K.Singha
DEFENCE WITNESSES: -

DW1- Hobibur Rahman
13

DW.2-Ali Hussain

(C) COURT WITNESSES: - NIL.

(D) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — Statement

Ext. 1 (1), — Signatures of PW -9

Ext. 2 — Medical Report

Ext. 2(1) —Signatures of PW 10

Ext.2(2) — Signature of PW.10

Ext.2(3)— Signature of Dr. G. Das

Ext.3— FIR

Ext.3(1)— Signature of the then O/c.

Ext.4— Sketch map.

Ext. 5- Charge sheet,

Ext.5(1), — Signature of PW11

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - Nil

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - NIL.
Sessions Judge,

Cachar,Silchar.
