1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 16/2016
corresponding to GR Case No. 03/2016 &
Borpathar Police Station Case No. 01/2016
Under section 376 of the IPC

State of Assam
Versus

Shri Rajiv Munda
Name of informant/complainant:_

Sri Krishna Nandi

Son of Late Hare Krishna Nandi

Village: Knakrajan

PS: Borpathar

District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.
Name of the accused person facing trial:

Shri Rajiv Munda

Son of Shri Tarun Munda

Village: Rong Bong 1 No Bogamati

PS: Golaghat

District: Golaghat, Assam.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defence : Miss Rubi Sarkar
Date(s) fixed for Argument : 26.08.2019/03.09.2019

Date (s) fixed for Judgment : 11.09.2019

UDGMENT
2|Page

l.

ra

It is a case of penetrative sexual assault alleged to
have been committed by the accused person upon

the victim.

The prosecution case in brief is that on 02.01.2016
the informant named above lodged a written ejahar
with Borpathar Police Station stating inter alia that on
10.01.2016 at about 8: 20 PM the accused took away
his victim on call from the picnic going on in the
house of one Topu Nag to a place where bamboos
were grown and raped her. On receipt of the ejahar,
O/C Borpathar Police Station registered a case vide
its Police Station case No. 01/2016 under section 4 of
the POCSO Act and _ started investigation. On
completion of investigation, the concerned
investigating officer submitted the charge-sheet
under section 376 of the IPC against the accused
person. Hence the prosecution case has come up.

On completion of appearance of the accused person,
copy was furnished to him and the case was
committed to this court. On perusal of the case
record along with case diary and after hearing
learned lawyers of both sides, | found sufficient
grounds for presuming that the accused person
committed the offences under section 4 of POCSO
Act. Accordingly, the charge was framed. The
particular of the offences charged was duly read over
and explained to the accused person to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. The case
was renumbered as POCSO Case.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many as 7

(seven) witnesses including medical officer and
3|Page

Sn

7.

investigating officer. The accused person has been
examined under section 313 CrPC. The defence has
examined none. Plea of defence is of total denial.

Points for determination is:

Whether the accused person on 01.01.2016 at
about 8:20 PM committed penetrative sexual assault
upon the victim in jungle made with bamboos
situated at Khakrajan under Borpathar Police Station
and that thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 4 of the POCSO Act?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal
arguments advanced by the learned counsels of both
sides as well as evidence on record. At the very
outset, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of
the accused person has contended that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case
against the accused person. On the other hand, the
learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the
aforesaid submission has submitted that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case
against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions, it
would be appropriate to give a glance at evidence on
record.

For attracting section 4 of the POCSO Act, the victim
needs to be a child. Child is defined in the section 2
4|Page

(d) of the POCSO Act. According to the aforesaid
section, to be a child a person needs to complete 18
years. PW-1 is the father of the victim and according
to him, at the time of occurrence, the victim was 16
years. PW-3 is the mother of the victim whose
evidence is silent as to how old the victim was at the
time of occurrence. PW-7 is the medical officer who
examined the victim on 02.01.2016. Ext-5 is the
medical report which shows that at the time of
occurrence the victim was above 18 years. In view of
the discussion made, | have come to conclusion that
at the time of occurrence the victim was above 18

years.

8. According to PW-1, coming home back, the victim
told him that while she was coming home back, the
accused forcibly took away to the jungle near his
house by gagging her mouth and raped her therein.
In the cross-examination PW-1 has admitted that the
victim came home back at 11:30 PM. PW-4 is Smt
Minu Horo to whose house the victim came on fateful
night. Her evidence shows that the victim left their
house at 10:30 PM for her house. In the cross-
examination she has stated that her brother wanted
to accompany her up to her house but she alone
went out for going home back. From the cross-
examination of PW-5, it appears that the accused
person sometime used to visit the house of the
informant. Now it has become crystal clear that the

accused was known to the victim.

9. There was none who saw the occurrence. Hence the
entire case lies on the evidence of the victim. It is
evident that the victim died during trial. PW-7 is the

medical officer who examined the victim on
5|Page

02.01.2016 immediate after occurrence. The
occurrence to place on the night of 01.01.2016. On
examination of the victim sign of recent sexual
intercourse and injury were not found. Spermatozoa
was not detected in vaginal swab. From the
discussion made above, it has become crystal clear
that there is doubt that there was penetration and
that the accused made any force upon the victim. It
is found that a different story was depicted in Ext-1.
Taking all aspects | am of the opinion that non-
examination of the victim is fatal to the prosecution
and that the prosecution is not free from doubt.

ORDER

10. In the result, | find that the prosecution has failed to

prove its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubts. Hence on benefit of doubts, the
accused person Shri Rajiv Munda is hereby acquitted
from the charge brought against him and let him be
set at liberty forthwith. The bail bond shall be stood
cancelled after 6 (six) months.

11. Accordingly this case is disposed on contest.

12.

Given under hand and seal of this court today,
the 11" day of September, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi
Anglong.

Dictated and corrected

by me.
6|Page

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong,
Diphu.

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Shri Krishna Nandi
PW2- Shri Rohit Horo

PW3- Smti Banu Nandi
PW4- Smti Minu Horo
PW5- Shri Biren Bhumij
PW6- Shri Ramohan Nag
PW7- Dr. Atreyee Goswami

Defence Witnesses: Nil
Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Statement of the victim
Ext.3- Sketch map of the PO
Ext.4- Charge Sheet

Ext.5- Medical Report

Defence Exhibited: Nil
7|Page

Special Judge,
Diphu, Karbi Anglong,

Assam.
