1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U. Ahmed, AJS,
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 09/2016
corresponding to GR Case No. 479/2016 &
Khatkhati Police Station Case No. 49/2016
Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Md Rahman Ali alias Rahmat Ali

Name of informant/complainant:

Mustt Raimon Nessa
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Md Rahman Ali alias Rahmat Ali
S/O Md Rab Uddin Ansari,
Village: Jortokbi Gaon
PS: Khatkhati
District: Karbi Anglong.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defence : Ms R. Sarkar
Argument heard on : 16.7.2019

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 16.7.2019

UDGMENT
2|Page

l.

2

It is a case of penetrative sexual assault alleged to
have been committed by the accused person.

The prosecution case in brief is that on 06.6.2016,
the informant-Mustt Raimon Nessa lodged an ejahar
with the O/C of Khatkhati Police Station stating inter
alia that on the same day at about 7-30 AM, the
accused-Md Rahman Ali alias Rahmat Ali kidnapped
her daughter, Mis Anjuma Begum aged 13 years from
a marriage ceremony which was going on at Jartakpi
Chariali and taking her to a nearby jungle raped her.
During the commission of said  misdeed,
neighbouring people noticed it and beat the accused
person by means of lathi. But the accused managed
to flee from the scene. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C
Khatkhati Police Station registered a case vide its PS
case No.49/2016 under section 4 of POCSO Act. On
completion of investigation 1.0. submitted the
charge-sheet under the registered section of law
against the accused person. Hence the prosecution

has come up.

On completion of appearance of the present accused
person, copy was furnished to him. On perusal of the
case record along with case diary, my predecessor
after hearing learned lawyers of both sides found
sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused
person committed the offence under section 4 of the
POCSO Act. Accordingly, the charge was framed. The
particular of the charged offence was duly read over
and explained to the accused person to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Later on,
this case was transferred to the Court of the
undersigned and accordingly, trial started against
the accused person.
3|Page

4. During trial Prosecution has examined four witnesses
including the informant and the alleged victim.
Statement of the accused person was recorded under
section 313 of CrP.C. Defence declined to adduce
evidence. Plea of defence is of total denial.

5. Point for determination is:

Whether the accused person on 06.6.2016 at
about 7:30 AM in a jungle of Jortakbi Gaon under
Khatkhati Police Station caused penetrative sexual
assault to Miss Anjuma Begum aged 13 years and
that he thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 4 of the POCSO Act ?

6. Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal
arguments advanced by the learned counsels of both
sides as well as evidence on record. At the very
outset, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of
the accused person has contended that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case
against the accused person. On the other hand, the
learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the
aforesaid submission has submitted that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case
against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions, it
would be appropriate to give a glance at evidence
record.

7. PW-1 is Smti Mina Bhumij who has stated in her
testimony that she does not know the informant and
the accused person. The occurrence took place two
years back. On the day of occurrence at about 7:30
AM, she noticed from her house that the accused was
4|Page

proceeding towards the nearby jungle by lifting a girl.
Seeing the said scene, she made hue and cry and the
she along with neighbours followed the accused.
They found the victim lying in the jungle and her
wearing clothes being removed up to her knee.
Seeing them, the accused fled from the _ place.
Thereafter, they got her dressed well and handed her
over to her sister. At that time, the victim was
about13 years old. During cross-examination, she
told that the victim was dressed with Suridar. They
saw the victim weeping, but did not hear hue and cry
from her. The sister of the victim is the wife of the
accused. The victim told her that the accused is her
brother-in-law(Bhinideo). On reaching the place of
occurrence, they did not find the accused there as
he had already fled away. Police came to the place of
occurrence and interrogated them.

8. PW-2 is Smti Dipali Basumatary who deposed in her
testimony that she does not know the informant, but
knows the accused person. The occurrence took
place about two years ago. On the day of occurrence
at about 7:30 AM, she saw from her house that the
accused was proceeding inside the jungle taking a
girl in his lap. Seeing this scene, she called the
nearby people by shouting and they went inside the
jungle. They saw in the jungle that the accused lying
himself over the body of the girl. They found the long
pant of the accused and the wearing clothes of the
victim girl being removed up to their knees. The
accused guessing their movement towards the jungle
started running by putting on his long pant. On being
asked, the victim told them that she came to the
house of her sister for the purpose of attending a
marriage ceremony and the accused taking the plea
5|Page

of sending her to school brought her to the jungle.
They found the accused rapping the victim.
Thereafter, they dressed her and took her to the
house of her sister. Later, they came to know that
the accused is the brother-in-law of the victim. In
cross-examination, she told that they saw the
accused and the victim walking. They reached the
place of occurrence after ten minutes of taking away
the victim to the jungle by the accused person. On
the day of occurrence, she saw the accused from
backside. She saw the accused gagging the mouth of
the victim so that she cannot shout. On being asked,
the victim told that she came to the house of her
sister for attending a marriage ceremony. The
accused married the sister of the victim girl. She
further told that what she stated in the Court was
also stated by her before the police.

9. PW-3 is Mrs Raimon Nessa who is the informant of
this case. She has stated in her testimony that she
knows the accused person. The victim is her
daughter. She cannot recollect the date of the
occurrence. On the day of occurrence, she went out
for her daily work. Her victim daughter and with her
another daughter went to attend a marriage
ceremony. While she was busy in her work, someone
asked her to go to the police station. On arrival at
police station, she found her victim daughter and two
women sitting there and she asked them as to what
happened. The women told her that the accused
drew the victim girl in order to make illegal physical
contact with her. On being asked, the victim girl told
that she fell in the mud by slipping and the accused
lifted her by pulling. Police took the victim to the
hospital for medical examination and got her
6|Page

statement recorded in the Court. At the time of
occurrence, the victim girl was 15 years old. During
cross-examination, PW-3 stated that the accused
married her elder daughter. Although the ejahar was
read over to her, but at that time she was mentally
upset. She was asked by a man to go to the police
station,obut she is unable to say as to who was the
said person. The victim did not tell anything her in
the police station. She lodged the ejahar as she was
told by the villagers.

10.PW-4 is Miss Anjuma Begum who stated has staed in
her testimony that the informant is her mother and
the accused is her brother-in-law. She cannot
recollect the date of the occurrence. On the day of
occurrence, she, her sister and her brother-in-law
went to attend a marriage ceremony. The incident
took place at the house where marriage was
solemnized. She told her brother-in-law that she
wanted to go to school from the place of marriage
ceremony and then her brother-in-law told that he
would drop her in the school. Then she told that she
herself can go to school. On the way to school, she
suddenly slipped down and her brother-in-law lifted
her by pulling. Seeing this scene, some boys of the
village came angrily there and her brother-in-law fled
away from that place. Later on, her mother lodged an
ejahar in this regard. Police got her medically
examined and statement recorded in the Court. Ext.1
is her statement and Ext.1(1), 1(2) are 1(3) are her
signatures. In her cross-examination, she told that
her sister and brother-in-law came out of the
marriage ceremony along with her. At the time of
occurrence, her sister went to a shop to purchase
some items. There were houses near the place of
7|Page

l

occurrence. At the time of occurrence, it was 7 PM.
The accused did not make any illegal physical
contact with her. She did not tell before the
Magistrate that the accused took her to a nearby
jungle, removed her wearing clothes and raped her.
She has no objection, if the accused is acquitted.
This is all about the prosecution evidence.

| have perused entire case record including the
ejahar and the evidences of the witnesses. Allegation
written the ejahar is very strong and the statements
of PW-1 and PW-2 are also strongly corroborative.
PW-3, Mustt Raiman Nessa is the mother of the
victim girl. She lodged the ejahar by putting her
thumb impression. In her examination-in-chief, she
told that the victim girl told that she slipped down
over the mud and the accused lifted her by pulling. In
cross, she told that although the ejahar was read
over to her, but at that time she was mentally upset.
She was asked by a man to go to the police
station,obut she is unable to say as to who was the
said person. The victim did not tell her anything in
the police station. She lodged the ejahar as she was
told by the villagers. From her evidence, it is found
that she was an illiterate lady and she did not file the
ejahar from her conscience. Her evidence is quite
different to the fact of the ejahar. On the other hand,
the evidence of the alleged victim is not satisfactory
to the prosecution case. Her evidence was that on
the way to school, she suddenly slipped down on the
road and her brother-in-law lifted her up. Seeing this
scene, some boys of the village came angrily there
and her brother-in-law fled away from that place.
From the evidence of the victim, it is found that
although her sister was present with her, but at the
8|Page

12

13.

time of occurrence, she went to a shop to purchase
some items. The prosecution could have examine the
sister of the victim, but did not do it for the reason
best known to it. From the close scrutiny of the
evidences of the witnesses and the fact of the ejahar,
it can be presumed that there was something wrong
on the part of the accused, but the evidence
accumulated in this case does not prove that the
accused had committed the offence of penetrative
sexual assault upon the victim. Hence, it can be held
that case is not proved against the accused person

as per requirement of law.

ORDER

.In the result, | find that the prosecution has failed to

prove its case against the present accused person.
Hence, he is acquitted of the charge brought against
him and let him set at liberty forthwith. The bail
bonds shall remain cancelled after 6(six) months.
Accordingly, this case is disposed of on contest.

Given under hand and seal of this court today, the
16th day of July, 2019.

Dictated and corrected

by me.
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong,

Diphu.
9|Page
