1.

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sessions (Spl.) Case No.20/2014
U/S 448/354 (A) IPC, R/W Section 8 of POCSO Act

Present : Mr. Dhrupad Kashyap Das
Sessions Judge, Morigaon.

State of Assam
Vs.

SriPuran Sahariaq. haaeeeeeees Accused

Date of Charge - 12.12.2014.
Date of recording evidence :- 08.06.2015, 06.08.2015, 05.10.2015,

15.03.2016 and 02.04.2016.
Date of Argument :- 22.05.2017.
Date of Judgment :- 30.05.2017.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State:- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused:- Mr. M. C. Sarkar, Ld. Advocate,
Mr. P. Mazumdar, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

Filing of an F.I.R. by one Arup Deka of village Nabahatia under Jagiroad P.S.
in the district of Morigaon with the then O/C Jagiroad P.S. on 25.09.2014 has
given rise to this prosecution case. In this F.I.R., it is alleged by the informant
that on 21.09.2014 at around 11.30 A.M., while his minor daughter Miss — X
(the real name is withheld to screen the victim from infamy), aged about 3
(three) years, 6 (six) months was sleeping inside the house; the accused,

namely Puran Saharia entered into the house with bad-intention and
he bit on her cheek and on her private organ.The victim started to shout
immediately and on hearing her shouting her mother came to the spot and save

her daughter from the clutch of the accused.

On receipt of this F.I.R., O/C Jagiroad P.S. registered a case vide
Jagiroad P.S. Case No.307/2014, U/s 448/354 (A) IPC, read with Section 8 of
POCSO Act against the above-named accused and investigation was set in

motion.

During the course of investigation, the 1.0. visited the place of occurrence
and drew the sketch map of the place of occurrence. The I.O. arrested the
accused. He seized the original birth certificate of the victim and forwarded her
to medical examination. The I.0. examined the material witnesses and produced
the victim before the Magistrate to record her statement U/s 164 of Cr.P.C.
Upon conclusion of investigation, the I.0. having found sufficient incriminating
materials submitted the charge-sheet against the above-named accused for
alleged commission of offences U/s 448/354 (A) IPC, read with Section 8 of
POCSO Act. At the time of filing charge-sheet, the accused was languishing in
jail and subsequently, he was released on court bail.Copies of relevant
documents were furnished to him. Thereafter, this Court having heard learned
Counsel of both sides and basing upon the materials on record, framed charge
U/s 448/354 (A) IPC, read with Section 8 of POCSO Act against the above-
named accused, which was read over and explained to the accused to which he

pleaded innocence and claimed to be tried.

3. Point for determination :

(i) Whether the accused on the eventful day i.e. on 21.09.2014 at
around 11.30 A.M. at village Nabahatia under Jagiroad P.S. in the
district of Morigaon, committed house-trespass by entering into the
dwelling house of the informant Arup Deka with intent to commit an

offence ?
4.

(a)

(ii) Whether the accused on the same day, time and place embraced the
victim, a minor girl, and made physical contact and advances
involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures?

(iii) | Whether the accused on the same day, time and place committed
sexual assault on the victim girl, a minor, aged about 3 years 6

months, by biting on her cheek and vagina with sexual intent?

The prosecution in this case has examined as many as 8 (eight) PWs including
the most vital witness, namely PW-1, the informant and PW-2 the victim. Upon
conclusion of recording evidence of the PWs, the accused was subjected to
examine U/s 313 Cr. P.C. with respect to the incriminating materials that
surfaced in the evidence on record against the accused. The plea of the accused

is of total denial. The accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

5. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence — on - record, I have come to the following decisions.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

6. In this case it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful day the
above-named accused by entering into the dwelling house of the informant,
embraced the victim, the minor daughter of the informant with bad-intention and
also committed sexual assault by biting on her cheek and vagina with sexual
intent. Now let us discuss the evidence of various PWs in order to find out the

truth of the case.

PW-1 (Arup Deka), the informant of this instant case stated in his evidence
that he knows the accused person. The occurrence of the incident took place on
21.09. 2014 at around 11.00 A.M. At that time he was working in the house of
Aghuna Deka, as he was a day labour. Then, at around 12.00 Noon his wife
Nandita Deka came to his working place and informed that the accused bit his

minor daughter on her private part and on her cheek. Thereafter, he along

with Aghuna Deka, Monai Chetry, Nitu Barman came to the place of occurrence

and called the accused person to his house and on being asked, the accused
person admitted his guilt. PW-1 further stated that he had seen mark of bite on
the cheek of his daughter and on the following day his daughter got trouble to
pass urine. Therefore, he informed the matter to Gaonburah and then a village
meeting was convened at Na-Bahatia L.P. School, where the accused admitted
his guilt. PW-1 has further stated in his evidence that after the village meeting,
the Gaonburha referred the matter to police of Jagiroad P.S. and accordingly,
PW-1 filed an ejahar at Jagiroad P.S. He proved Ext.1 the ejahar and Ext.1 (1) is
his signature. PW-1 further stated that his victim daughter was medically

examined and police also interrogated him.

In his cross-examination, PW-1 stated that the residence of Aghuna
Deka is situated about Y2 km. away from his house.PW-1 did not state before
the police that he was informed by his wife, as police did not ask him. He
further stated that the accused used to reside near his house. PW-1 denied the
fact that he had previous enmity with the accused. PW-1 further denied the
suggestion that the accused did not bite his daughter. He did not state before
the police that he informed the matter to Gaonburha, as police did not ask him.
He further stated in his evidence that he did not state before the police that a
village meeting was held at Na-bahatia L. P. School, as police did not ask him.
PW-1 also denied the fact that no such incident happened and he deposed

falsely due to enmity with the accused.

(b) PW-2 (Miss-X), the victim girl stated in her testimony that on the
eventful day she was sleeping on her bed and then one aged person came
there, took her on his lap and bit her cheek. PW-2 further stated that the said
person put his finger inside her private part and then she sustained pain and
raised alarm.

In her cross-examination, she stated that she was not naked at the
time of sleeping and at the time of incident she was wearing a frock and pant.

PW-2 denied the facts that she sustained injury on her cheek due to mosquito

bite. She also denied the suggestion that she deposed in this case as tutored by

her parents. She also denied the fact that the accused did not put his finger in
her private part and she deposed falsely in this case. PW-2 further stated that at

the time of incident her mother was cooking food.

(c) PW-3 (Smti. Nandita Deka) stated in her evidence that she knows the
accused and the victim Miss-X is her daughter. According to her, the occurrence
was took place on 21.09.2014 at around 11.00 A.M. at her house. At that time
she was cooking food and then suddenly, she heard shouting of her daughter,
who was sleeping in the room. She immediately rushed to the room and found
the above-named accused who came out from the room and her daughter (the
victim) was crying. On being asked, her daughter (the victim) told her that the
accused bit her cheek and put finger inside her private part. PW-3 further stated
that her husband was doing work in the house of Aghuna Deka. Immediately
after the incident, PW-3 informed the incident to the wife of the accused and
then Aghuna Deka, Nitu Deka and Monai Chetry who came to their house. They
called the accused to her house and on being asked, the accused told them that
he committed the mistake and asked to pardon him. Thereafter, the victim was
brought to Bhakatgaon hospital and on the next day a village meeting was
convened at Na-Bahatia L. P. School, where the accused admitted his guilt. PW-
3 further stated that her husband filed the ejahar. She was interrogated by

police and her daughter (the victim) was medically examined.

In her cross-examination, she stated that she has two daughters and
her mother was also residing with them. The accused is residing near their
house. PW-3 further stated that at the time of occurrence of the incident there
was no other person and she did not see fingering by the accused on the
private part of her daughter, but she had seen that the accused coming out
from the room. She denied the facts that she does not see the accused coming
out from her room. She also denied the suggestion that they had enmity with
the accused person since long. PW-3 further denied the suggestion that she did

not state before the police that accused put finger inside the private part of her

daughter. PW-3 again denied the suggestion that she did not see any bite mark
on the cheek of her daughter. She denied the fact that the accused did not
admit his guilt.She also denied the fact that she did not state before police that

accused admitted his guilt at the village meeting.

(d) | PW-4 (Subha Deka) stated in his evidence that he knows the informant and
the accused. According to him the occurrence took place in the last year. After
the incident, a village meeting was held about 1 Y2 km. away from his house
and he was called to attend the said meeting. Accordingly, he attended the said
meeting and on reaching there, he came to know that the above-named
accused had done some bad work with the victim Miss- X, aged about four
years. PW-4 further stated that at the time, when the meeting was going on,
the situation was hot and on seeing the mood of the people, he immediately
informed the matter to police. PW-4 also took the accused to Jagiroad P.S. and

handed over him to the police to save his life.

In his cross-examination, he has denied the fact that he stated before

the police that he heard that accused did some bad work with the victim.

(e) | PW-5 (Badan Mahanta) an independent witness, stated in his evidence that
he knows the informant and the accused. According to him, on the eventful day,
in the afternoon he was at his house. He was called to a village meeting, which
was held at Sankarpur L. P. School and on reaching there he had seen strong
gathering of people there. He also found that the people were very furious and
they attempted to assault the accused and when they found that the situation
was getting deteriorated, then to save the life of the accused, he along with
some other by hiring a vehicle took the accused to Jagiroad P.S. and handed

over him to the police.

In his cross-examination, he stated that he has no personal knowledge

regarding the entire incident.

(f) PW-6 (Ganesh Deka @ Aghona) stated in his evidence that he knows the
informant, victim and the accused. According to him, the occurrence of the

incident took place about one year back. On that day, he was doing repairing
works in his house and he engaged the informant to do the work. Thereafter, at
around 11.00 A.M. the wife of the informant came to his house and told them
that her daughter was kissed and bitten by the accused. She stated before them
that the accused bit her daughter on her cheek. PW-6 further stated that the
victim was around three years of age at the time of incident of occurrence. The
informant called him and then he went to the house of the accused. On being
asked, the accused admitted that he kissed the victim but he refused the fact
that he bit the victim, however, the accused asked them to excuse him. PW-6
further stated that on the following day, police personnel came to the place of

occurrence and he also went there. Police recorded his statement.

In his cross-examination, PW-6 stated that he resides about 200/300
meters away from the house of the informant. PW-6 denied the facts that the
accused did not bite and kiss the victim and the accused did not admit his fault

before them.

(g) PW-7 (Dr. Madhushmita Baruah Deka) stated in her evidence that on
26.09.2014, she was working as Medical and Health Officer No.1 at Morigaon
Civil Hospital. On that day, she examined Nilakhi Deka, daughter of Arup Deka
of Na-Bahatiya in connection with Jagiroad P.S. Case No.307/2014 and found
the following :

She had a history of rape by her so called grandfather.

Identification Mark : Scar Mark on her Right index finger.

Height : 3 feet 10 inches; Weight : 15 Kgs.

Teeth : Upper — 10, Lower — 10; Breast : Not developed,

Auxiliary hair : Absent; Public hair : Absent; Vaginal hymen : Present.
External injuries : Abrasion (2cm x Y2 cm x 1/3 cm) on her right inner
thigh.

Vaginal injuries : Nil; Genital canal and Perineum : Normal.

Vaginal smear lab Regd. No.ML/137 dated 26.09.2014,
No Spermatozoa seen.
X-Ray No.3724, 3729, 3726, 3727 dated 27.09.2014,
Reported by radiologist Dr. N. Ahmed, According to X-ray report the age
of the girl is less than 5 years.
After examination, PW-7 opined that — 1. Victim was sexually assaulted,
2. Abrasion on her right inner thigh, 3. Her age is less than 5 years.

PW-7 proved Ext.2 the medical report and Ext.2 (2) is his

signature.

In her cross-examination, PW-7 stated that on the basis of injuries
on her right inner thigh and the history of the child and her parents, she opined
it as sexual assault. PW-7 further stated that it may be a self-inflicted injury, but
keeping in view of the age of the child self-inflicted injury was on doubt. PW-7
further stated that if the child falls on a hard substance, such injury may be
caused, but other part of the body must also received injury. Injuries cannot be
seen by radiology, until and unless it is a bone injury. Superficial injury cannot
be ascertained by radiological department. PW-7 denied the fact that she has

given wrong opinion that the child was sexually assaulted.

(h) PW-8 (Birendra Bordoloi) stated in his evidence that on 21.09.2014 he was
serving as S.I. of police at Jagiroad P.S. On that day, some women of na-
bahatia village came to the P.S. and filed an ejahar, which was registered by the
then O/C of Jagiroad P.S. and entrusted him to investigate the case. PW-8
further stated that he was accompanied by the village people to the village Na-
bahatia. According to him, prior to their arrival in the said village, a village
meeting took place and in that meeting, the village people assaulted the
accused. The Gaonburha rescued the accused and handed over the
accused to him and accordingly, he (PW-8) brought the accused to the police
station and got him medically examined. PW-8 questioned the accused and then
the accused informed him that he took the victim on his lap and cared her. The
I.0. stated that as per the version of the informant and his wife, the accused bit

the victim on her cheek. Thereafter, PW-8 having found materials, arrested the

accused and forwarded him to the Court. PW-8 further stated that the victim
was medically examined at Morigaon Civil Hospital and after examination, the
victim along with her mother was forwarded to the learned Court for recording
statement U/s 164 of Cr. P. C. PW-8 further stated that he examined the
witnesses, drew up the sketch map of the place of occurrence and seized the
original birth certificate of the victim. PW-8 proved Ext.3 the sketch map, Ext.3
(1) is his signature thereon and Ext.4 the seizure list, Ext.4 (1) is his signature
thereon. PW-8 also collected the medical report of the victim and upon
conclusion of investigation and having found sufficient materials; he submitted
the charge-sheet against the accused. PW-8 proved Ext.5 the charge-sheet and
Ext.5 (1) is his signature thereon.

In his cross-examination, he has stated that PW-3 Nandita Deka did not
state before him that the accused put his finger in the private part of the victim
and PW-4 Subha Deka did not state before him that the accused had done some

bad work with the victim.

7. In this case, the victim (PW-2) is a minor girl of about 3 to 4 years old at
the time of occurrence of the incident. She has become a POCSO victim for the
alleged occurrence of the incident and the truthfulness of the entire prosecution
case ultimately rest upon the testimony of this child witness. Despite the strong
support and corroboration of the other witnesses; the evidence of the victim,
who is a child witness, bears utmost importance for proving the prosecution
case.

Section 118 of the Evidence Act lays down that all persons shall be
competent to testify unless the Court considers that they are prevented from
understanding the questions put to them, or from giving rational answers to
those questions, by tender years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body or
mind, or any other cause of the same kind. Thus, all persons are competent to
testify, unless the court considers that by reason of tender years, extreme old
age, disease, or infirmity, they are incapable of understanding the questions put
to them and of giving rational answers. The decision on the question whether a
child witness has sufficient intelligence primarily rests with the trial Judge who

notices his/her manners, his/her apparent possession or lack of intelligence, and

said Judge may resort to any examination which will tend to disclose his/her
capacity and intelligence as well as his/her understanding of the obligation of an
oath. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he/she has intellectual

capacity to understand the questions and give rational answers thereto.
10

8. In view of Section 118 of the Evidence Act, a child is competent to
testify, if he can understand the question put to him, and gave rational answers
thereto. The admissibility of the child witness has to be considered for reliability
on scrutiny of his evidence, if the child is found to be reliable then only the child
may be taken as a reliable witness. The statement of a child witness is to be
examined very carefully in order to see that he/she was not tutored. The Court is

prudent to require the evidence of child witness with close scrutiny.

9. In the instant case, the victim PW-2 was subjected to answer rational
questions before recording of her evidence and her evidence was recorded after
finding her as competent witness as she was able to answer rational questions.
In her evidence, she specifically stated that at the time of occurrence of the
incident, she was sleeping on her bed and at that time one aged person came to
her room and took her on his lap and then said aged person bit her cheek. She
also stated that the said aged person put his finger inside her private organ for
which she sustained pain and subsequently, raised alarm. In her cross-
examination, she stated that when she was sleeping she was wearing a frock
and a pant. She further denied that mark on her cheek due to mosquito bite. She
has also denied that she was tutored by her parents to depose before the Court.
The reliability of this child witness can be based on the situation that she raised
alarm as soon as she sustained pain because of the fingering by the accused on
her vagina. Therefore, this child witness had the idea of raising alarm so that her
shouting could be heard by her family members, who will come forward to save
her.

A girl child, who is a victim of POCSO as well as other related offence is
certainly an injured witness. In the case of testimony of such a child witness who
sustained injury at the hands of assailant has to be considered very cautiously.

When there was an incident in which the victim/injured witness did not sustain

injury; ordinarily that witness is unlikely to falsely implicated an innocent person.
It is unlikely that an injured witness will do so, unless she has strong motivation
to do so. Further, convincing evidence is also required to discredit an injured

witness.
11

10. Upon perusal of evidence, it appears that the testimony of the victim
is not bereft of any corroboration. The parents of the victim i.e. PW-1 & PW-3
have clearly narrated the occurrence of the incident. The informant i.e. PW-1
who is the father of the victim girl saw mark of bite on the cheek of his daughter.
Further, the accused also admitted his guilt before the village meeting, which
was Called for by the village people. The father of the victim girl found that her
daughter could not pass urine after the incident. It is also revealed that no major
contradiction could have been extracted during the cross-examination of the
parents of the victim girl. PW-3, the mother of the victim girl stated in her cross-
examination that as soon as she rushed to the room of her daughter after
hearing her shouting she saw the accused person moving out from that room.
The evidence of the parents of the victim and mark of injury which they have
noticed on the cheek and private part of the daughter has clearly established
that their minor daughter was subjected to sexual assault at the hands of the
accused person. Further, the mark of injury sustained by the victim was also
detected on the examination of the victim made by the M.O. (PW-7) in as much
as, the M. O. found that the victim was sexually assaulted and there was
abrasion in her right thigh. In cross-examination, the M.O. stated that it was a
case of sexual assault and there is hardly any chance of self-infliction injury since
the victim was a child of less than 5 (five) years old. The I.O. of the case i.e. PW-
8 who conducted investigation had forwarded both the victim and her mother to
the Magistrate for recording their statement. The 1.0. after finding sufficient

materials against the accused submitted charge-sheet against him.

11. Under aforesaid facts and circumstances, this Court does not find any
difficulty in acting on the testimony of the child witness when her testimony has

fully inspired confidence and found to be worthy of credence. And, if we seek

corroboration of the statement of the victim then her parents as well as other
independent witness have clearly supported the occurrence of the incident
committed by the accused. This Court has un-doubtedly found the accused
guilty and is of the view that the prosecution has clearly established that on the
eventful day of the occurrence of the incident, the accused illegally entered into

the room of the victim girl while she was sleeping and after taking her in his lap,
12

he had sexually assaulted her. Thus, the accused found guilty of offence
punishable U/s 448/354 (A) IPC, read with 8 of the POCSO Act. Prosecution has

established its case beyond any reasonable doubt.

SENTENCE

After arriving at such finding, I have heard the convict U/s 235 (2)
Cr.P.C. on the point of sentence prescribed U/s 448/354 (A) IPC, read with
Section 8 of POCSO Act. The sentences prescribed are explained to the convict.
During hearing, the convict has pleaded innocence and also prayed for leniency
and lesser punishment. After hearing the convict on the point of sentence, he is
sentenced and punished with :-

S.I. for 1 (one) year and a fine of Rs.1,000/-, in default to pay the same,
he is further sentenced to S.I. for 1 (one) month for offence punishable U/s 448
IPC,

and

R. I. for 3 (three) years and a fine of Rs.5,000/-, in default, to pay the
same, he is further sentenced to S.I. for 6 (six) months for the offence
punishable U/s 354 (A) IPC,

and

R.I. for 3 (three) years and a fine of Rs.10,000/- and in default to pay the
same, he is further sentenced to S.I. for one year for the offence punishable U/s
8 of the POCSO Act.

It is directed that all the sentences are run concurrently. The period of
imprisonment, which has already undergone by the convict shall be deducted

from the total period of sentence.

In case of realization of the fine amount from the convict, the same shall
be provided to the victim as compensation for her loss or injury U/s 357 (1)(b)
Cr. P. C.
13

In the instant case, the victim deserves to receive compensation U/s 357-
A of Cr.P.C. The DLSA, Morigaon shall decide and determine the compensation
amount to be awarded U/s 357 — A Cr. P.C.

Send a copy of this judgment to the Secretary DLSA, Morigaon for

necessary action and also to the District Magistrate, Morigaon.

Let a free copy of the Judgment be given to the convict forthwith.

Judgment delivered in the open Court on this 30" day of May, 2017
under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Sessions Judge

Morigaon.

Sessions Judge,
Morigaon.
APPENDIX

. Prosecution witness
. PW-1 :- Sri Arup Deka,
. PW-2 :- Sri Nilakhi Deka,
. PW-3 :- Smti. Nandita Deka,

WN BS [D>

. PW-4 :- Sri Subha Deka,

. PW-5 :- Sri Badan Mahanta,

PW-6 :- Sri Ganesh Deka & Aghona,
PW-7 :- Dr. Madhushmita Baruah Deka,
PW-8 :- Sri Birendra Bordoloi,

. Defence witness : Nil.

OWAN DM A

. Prosecution Exhibit :
0 uM KR WN

14

. Ext.1, the ejahar.

. Ext.2, the medical report,
. Ext.3, the sketch map,

. Ext.4, the seizure list,

. Ext.5, the charge-sheet.

. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Morigaon.
