IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE AT BARPETA.

Present :- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com., LL.B.,AJS,
Special Judge,Barpeta.

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 60 OF 2019
(G.R.No.- 2334/2018)
Kalgachia P.S. Case No. 382 of 2018

State of Assam
-versus-

Pashan Ali

S/O Lt. Natu Mia
Resident of Balikuri NC,
P.S.- Kalgachia

District- Barpeta, Assam

tan can Accused.
APPEARANCES :
For the State : Sri Malek Ali Ahmed, learned
Addl. Public Prosecutor,
Barpeta.
For the Accused : Mr. N.M.H. Rahman, learned

Counsel, Barpeta.

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTIONS 365 IPC READ WITH SECTION 4
OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT,

 

2012.
Date of Charge ‘27.05.2019,
Date of Prosecution evidence ‘25.09.2019,
Date of Argument ‘25.09.2019,
Date of Judgment ! 03.10.2019.

JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution case, in brief, is that Kalgachia PS. Case No 382

Special POCSO Case No. 60 of 2019 Pagel of 7
of 2018 under Sections 366(A)/34 of IPC read with added Section 4 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was registered on the
basis of a F.I.R. lodged by Khairul Islam, father of the victim.

In the aforesaid F.I.R., the informant Khairul Islam(P.W.2), who is
the father of the victim girl, alleged interalia, that on 02.05.2018 at about 4:00
PM, the accused person namely Pashan Ali along with others kidnapped her
minor daughter (P.W.1) aged about 17 years, when she went to her maternal
aunt's house at Gunialguri. It is alleged in the ejahar that the accused took his
minor daughter to some unknown place.

On receipt of the aforesaid FI.R. dated 14.05.2018 by the Officer-
In-charge, Kalgachia Police Station, the same was registered as Kalgachia P.S.
Case No 382/2018 under Sections 366(A)/34 of IPC. Section 4 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was also added
subsequently.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was recovered.
Her statement under section 164 of CrPC was also recorded by the learned
Magistrate. Police, on completion of investigation, filed charge-sheet, in the case,
against the accused Pashan Ali under Sections 366(A) of IPC read with
Section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.
vide charge sheet No. 59/2019, dated 10.03.2019.

2). On production of accused, copy was furnished to him by the
undersigned.
3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents

submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the
prosecution in this behalf, charges were framed by undersigned against the
accused under Sections 365 of IPC read with Section 4 of the Protection
of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which were read over and
explained to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed
to be tried.

Special POCSO Case No. 60 of 2019 Page2 of 7
4). During the course of trial, O02 [two] number of witnesses
including informant and victim were examined on behalf of the prosecution to
prove the charge under Sections 365 IPC read with Section 4 of the Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

The Prosecution Witnesses was closed, aS per prayer made by
learned Public Prosecutor, Barpeta. The statement of the accused under Section
313 of CrPC was dispensed with as no incriminating evidence were found against

him.

5). I have heard Sri Malek Ali Ahmed, learned Addl. Public
Prosecutor of Barpeta, for the State as well as Mr. N.M.H. Rahman, learned
Defence Counsel for the accused, who is facing trial for commission of offence
under Sections 365 IPC read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the point for determination before this court are as follows ---

(i) Whether the accused on or about 02-05-2018 at about 04:00 PM
within the jurisdiction of Kalgachia P.S., District Barpeta, kidnapped
Rojina Khatun, minor daughter of informant Khairul Islam, when she
was going to her aunty's (Mahi) house at Gunialguri, with intent to
cause the said victim to be secretly and wrongfully confined and

thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 365 IPC?

(ii) Whether accused on the aforesaid date or thereafter committed
penetrative sexual assault upon minor victim, of the above named
informant and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section
4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7). To decide the above point and sections of law, let us examine,

Special POCSO Case No. 60 of 2019 Page3 of 7
analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses alongwith the relevant
documents.

Razina Khatun [P.W.1] has deposed that informant is her father
and she do not know the accused person. Incident took place about one year
ago. On the relevant date, she went to market without informing her family
members. From market, she went to the house of her mother's sister(mahi) at
Gunialguri and stayed there for one week at the house of her Mahi. Then, her
father came and took her with him to her house. Then, police brought her to
thana

Police examined her and brought her before the learned
Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. She exhibited
her statement vide Ext.1 and Ext.1(1) & 1(2) are her signatures. She gave her
statement before the learned Magistrate as tutored by police. She do not have
any relation with the accused. He did not do anything with her. Accused did not
force her to go with him or he did not touch her body.

In her cross-examination, she stated that she gave her

statement before learned Magistrate as tutored by police.

8). Khairul Islam [P.W.2] deposed in his evidence that victim is her
daughter. He do not know the accused. He stated that his victim daughter went
to market on the relevant date. But she did not return to home. He searched her,
but did not find. After that, he searched her for one week and when he did not
find her, he lodged the case by putting thumb impression on the FIR. Then, he
came to know that she was staying in the house of elder sister of his wife. He do
not know who wrote the ejahar. He further stated that he lodged the case

against the accused, on suspicion, as told his brother-in-law namely Ayub Ali.

In his cross-examination, he stated that he does not know the
content of the FIR.

9). From a close perusal of the statement of the victim (P.W.1) as well
as the informant [P.W.2] (who is the father of the victim girl), it is seen that they

did not support the alleged incident, in their evidence.

Special POCSO Case No. 60 of 2019 Page4 of 7
The Victim (P.W.1), who is star witness of the instant case deposed
in her evidence that on the relevant day, she went to market without informing
her family members. After that, she went to her maternal aunt's residence at
Gunialguri and stayed there for one week. Then, her father came and took her
with him to her house.

P.W.1 clearly stated in her evidence that she did not have any
relation with the accused and accused did not do anything with her. She gave her
statement before the learned Magistrate, as tutored, by Police.

Moreover, the informant (P.W.2) stated in his evidence that he had
filed this case when he did not find his daughter after searching her for one
week. Then, he came to know that his victim daughter was staying in the house
of elder sister of his wife. He further stated in his evidence that he lodged the
case against the accused, on suspicion, as told his brother-in-law namely Ayub Ali
and he did not know the content of the FIR.

Thus, it is clearly indicated that victim girl voluntarily went
to her maternal aunt's house. Her conduct clearly shows that the alleging
incident narrated in the FIR is totally false.

The conduct of victim clearly shows that she willingly went to her
maternal aunt's house and the conduct of the victim is not found natural had she
been abducted or kidnapped by the accused person by force.

There is no material on record to hold that the accused
kidnapped and committed rape on the victim, to constitute offence
under Sections 365 IPC read with Section 4 of the Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

10). To bring home the guilt of the accused under Section 365 of IPC
read with Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, it is
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the accused induced the prosecutrix
or compelled her by force to go from any place; that such inducement was by
deceitful means; that such kidnapping or abduction took place with the intent
that the prosecutrix may seduced to illicit intercourse and/or that the accused
knew it to be likely that the prosecutrix may seduced to illicit intercourse, as a

result of her abduction or kidnapping.

Special POCSO Case No. 60 of 2019 PageS of 7
11). However, from discussion made herein above, it is crystal clear
that victim had voluntarily went to her maternal aunt's house. There is no
evidence of kidnapped or raped to the victim at the relevant time of incident.
Victim herself has not supported the case of prosecution side to prove

the alleged charges against accused.

12). It is cardinal principal of criminal Law that prosecution case has to
stand on its own leg and offence has to be proved against the accused beyond

reasonable doubt.

13). In the result, accused Pashan Ali is acquitted of the charge
under sections 365 of IPC read with Section 4 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012, levelled against him, on benefit of doubt.

The bail bond stands discharged.

14). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 03" day of
October, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special POCSO Case No. 60 of 2019 Page6 of 7
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Razina Khatun, the victim,
P.W.2 = Khairul Islam, the informant.
(B) Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1 = Statement of the victim recorded u/s
164 CrPC,
Ext.1(1) & 1(2) = Signature of the victim.

(C) Defence witnesses: Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.

(E) Court witnesses: Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.

Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special POCSO Case No. 60 of 2019 Page7 of 7
