IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE :::: SI VASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions J udge cum Special | udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 28 of 2017 U/ S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.
(Arising out of Demow P.S. Case No. 135/2017)

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Sikandar Machuwa .........ccseeeeeees Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
For the accused Mr. Anil Ch. Dutta, Advocate
Date of framing Charge: 16.11.2017
Dates of Evidence ; 08.12.2017, 08.01.2018, 01.02.2018
Date of S/D 12.02.2018
Date of Argument 12.04.2018 & 05.05.2018
Date of J udgment 14.05.2018

JUDGMENT
1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 15.06.2017, one Smt.

Meenakshi Machuwa lodged an FIR with O/C, Demow P.S. alleging, inter alia,
that her niece victim 'D' (name withheld), aged about 14 years was made
pregnant by some unknown person. On asking, the victim did not disclose the

name of the person responsible for causing her pregnancy.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Demow P.S. Case No. 135/2017 U/S 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and investigated. During investigation, accused
was arrested and produced before the court for judicial custody. The victim was
medically examined and got her statement recorded in the court U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
On completion of investigation, |.0. has submitted Charge-Sheet U/S 4 of Pocso

Act, 2012 against the accused person.

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 1 of 21
3. On receipt of charge sheet, cognizance of offence was taken.
Accused was provided with the services of Legal Aid Counsel. After furnishing
copy to the accused and after hearing both the sides, vide order dated
16.11.2017, charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 has been framed against the

accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial.

4. During trial, prosecution side has examined six witnesses including
M.O. and 1.0. Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial and false implication.
Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was called upon to enter into

defence.

5. It may be noted here that accused faced the entire trial as UTP.
Initially accused was provided with the services of Legal Aid Counsel Mr. Dhiraj
Dutta. However at the last stage of trial, due to appointment of Mr. Dhiraj
Dutta as PP, Sivasagar, accused was defended by his engaged Advocate Mr.
Anil Ch. Dutta, a senior member of Bar and due to waiting for taking Charge by

Special PP, there was some delay in disposal of this case.

6. | have heard and reheard arguments of learned Special P.P. Mr.
Srimanta Gogoi and Mr. Anil Ch. Dutta, learned defence counsel and gone
through the evidence on record. | have considered the submission of both the

sides.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

7. (I) Whether on the date of filing of the FIR the victim 'D' was
pregnant?

(11) Whether accused Sikandar Machuwa has committed the
penetrative sexual assault on the victim 'D' against her will and caused
her pregnant?

DECI SION AND REASONS THEREOF
8. Before going to decide the points formulated above, let me
narrate the evidence on record for better understanding of facts and

circumstances of this case.

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 2 of 21
9. PW-1 the victim D, who was produced from Snehalaya (Children
home run by NGO) in her evidence deposed that accused Sikandar Machuwa is
her relative as he married Meenakshi, sister of her father. From childhood, she
called Sikandar as Mama. From her childhood, she was brought up by Sikandar
Machuwa and Meenakshi Machuwa at their residence due to death of her
parents. Presently she is aged about 14 years. PW 1 also deposed that that
during her stay at the residence of accused, while she started growing up, since
about last 3 years, at night hours accused Sikandar Machuwa came to her room
and commits misdeed. He used to open her cloths and establishes physical
relation. He did not care to her resistance and also used to threaten her not to
divulge about commission of misdeed to others. When she reported the matter
to Meenakshi Machuwa, she disbelieves her. She also asked her not to divulge
the matter to others. By this way accused continued to make sexual relation
with her for long. Lastly, on stopping of her menstruation, during house visit by
local Asha workers, she informed them about stopping of menstruation. On
knowing this, they took her to Demow Hospital and after having urine test,
ascertained that she was pregnant. Meenakshi Machuwa has also accompanied
us. On conforming her pregnancy, Asha workers took her to Demow police
Station. Police brought her to Sivasagar for Medical examination and also to
Court. She gave statement in court. On that day also she deposed in similar
lines. Her pregnancy was due to physical relation by her Mama Sikandar
Machuwa. From Court, she was sent to Snehalaya, Sivasagar. Presently, she is
Staying at Snehalaya. About four months back, she delivered one male child at
Sivasagar Civil Hospital. Said child is also at Snehalaya. In her cross by defence,
PW 1 admitted that she cannot say her date of birth. She was not sent to
school. She cannot say her exact age. She disclosed her age as 14 years on
assumption. Accused Sikandar and Meenakshi has two minor daughters. She
used to play with them. She also played with neighbouring child of her age. She
was never kept confined at the residence of accused during her stay there. On

first day of misdeed by accused, she informed the matter to Meenakshi but she

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 3 of 21
did not rely her. On establishing sexual relation for the first time by the
accused, she understand that it was misdeed with her. Asha workers frequently
visits residence of the locality including her residence to take care education of
the children. As her Mami, asked her not to disclose the incident, she did not
inform the same to Asha Karmi and neighbours. She was also under fear of
harm by accused, if she disclose the fact of misdeed to others. She denied to
had illicit relation with local boy and that while the accused and his wife
restrained her in maintain such relation, out of that grudge, she falsely
implicated Sikandar in this case. She denied that accused never committed

misdeed with her.

10. PW-2 Smt. Meenakshi Machuwa, wife of the accused, in her
evidence deposed that victim D is the daughter of her brother. Victim used to
call the accused as Mama. From her childhood, victim was brought up by them
at their residence due to death of her parents. Presently, she is aged about 17
years. About three years back, she attained puberty. On knowing about
stopping of her menstruation, on asking, the victim told her that accused used
to go to her bed and through him, she become pregnant. On knowing this, she
took the Victim to Demow Hospital and after having urine test, ascertained that
she was pregnant of about 3 months. On that day, Munu Goala, Sanjay Goala
and Mainu Machuwa accompanied them to Demow Hospital. On conforming
Victim 's pregnancy, Munu Goala, Sanjay Goala and Mainu Machuwa took her
and Victim to Demow police station. As asked, she lodged FIR at Demow PS.
FIR was written by some body at police station. There from Victim was taken by
police. She cannot say, where Victim resides since that day. From Munu Goala,
she heard that Victim has delivered one male child. In her cross-examination,
she admitted that victim‘s father died about 10 years back. Victim’s mother died
prior to her marriage. She disclosed the age of Victim as 17 years on
assumption. Only after confirming pregnancy on victim, for the first time victim
informed her that Sikandar used to go to her bed. On day time she and her

husband went for job at Bagan. Her children stayed with Victim for the day

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 4 of 21
time. Neighbouring adult persons of the locality also went to their workplace. In
night hours, her husband used to sleep with her. She never saw her husband
missing from bed at night hours. She had never seen any incident to doubt her
husband for keeping any illicit relation with the victim. Had the victim informed
her earlier regarding commission of misdeed, she could have protected her. She
cannot say, If Sikandar restrained victim from keeping illicit relation with local
boys. About three years back, victim left her home by making quarrel and they

have to search her and brought back after three days.

11. PW-3 Miss Mainu Machuwa, a NGO Worker in her evidence
deposed that in the month J une/2017 the local members of her NGO informed
that incident of Child abuse happened at the residence of Sikandar Machuwa.
On knowing this, she along with Deepjyoti Goala, secretary of the NGO went to
the residence of Sikandar and found the victim. After much reluctance and on
their assurance, she told her about stopping of menstruation period and taking
of some medicines. After discussing the matter with other NGO members, in the
evening by taking consent from the wife of Sikandar, they took out Victim to
Demow Hospital for medical examination and doctors have ascertained that
Victim was pregnant. Wife of Sikandar was also with them. Victim told them
that she was pregnant through Sikandar whom she used to call as MAMA. PW 3
also deposed that victim was an orphan girl and staying at that residence for
last 7-8 years. She did not go to school. After confirmation of her pregnancy,
they took the victim and wife of Sikandar to Demow PS and lodged an FIR.
Police took Victim to medical. Thereafter victim was produced to Child Welfare
Committee and there from Victim was sent to Snehalaya. In her cross-
examination PW 3 admitted that Sikandar was not financially sound. Local NGO
workers informed them that health condition of Victim was not good. On our
asking about her pregnancy after medical examination, she disclosed the
incident to them. They have not verified about the incident and role of Sikandar

from villagers.

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 5 of 21
12. PW-4 Sri Deepjyoti Goala, NGO Worker, who accompanied the PW
3 in his evidence deposed in similar with PW 3. In his cross-examination he
admitted that he cannot say how and when our Local NGO came to know about
the incident. On their asking about her pregnancy after medical examination,
She disclosed the incident to them and that she was pregnant through Sikandar

Machowa.

13. P.W. 5 Dr. Sanjib Mahanta in his evidence deposed that on
16.06.2017 at about 12 noon, on police requisition, he examined the Victim in
connection with Demow P.S. Case No. 135/17 findings are as follows:

Menarche - 3 to 4 years Back.

LMP: ?Feb 2017

Maritual Status- Unmarried.

Teeth - 14/14.

Hymen - Absent.
Abdominal Examination - Uterus : 20-24 weeks size,

Pregnancy Test (H.C.G. In urine)- SVIP (Single viable intrauterine
Pregnancy of 24.4 wks.

Radiological examination:

Skiagram of the left wrist and elbow joints showed complete fusion of
the epiphyses.

In his evidence PW 5 has opined that the victim girl was above 18 years
of age at the time of examination. There was no evidence of injury or recent
sexual intercourse detected during examination. She was carrying 24 Wks. of
viable pregnancy at that time. He proved the medical report as Ext.1, his
Signature as Exbt. 1(i) and X-Ray report of Dr. Ranjit Hazarika as Exbt. 1(2). In
his cross-examination, PW 5 deposited that he is specialist in Gynaecology. In
cases of continuous act of sexual relation, there is every possibility of become
pregnant by the women. During his examination, he did not get any sign of

earlier abortion.

14. PW-6 Sri Ashim Jyoti Buragohain, the I/O of this case in her

evidence deposed that on 15.06.2017, O/C Demow PS has received one written

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 6 of 21
FIR from Smt. Meenakshi Machuwa and registered Demow PS case No. 135/17
u/s 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted him to investigate the case. Exbt. 1 is the
FIR. On taking charge of investigation, he examined the informant and victim at
PS campus. Thereafter, victim was sent to Snehalaya for night stay and on the
next day she was sent for medical examination and also to court for recording
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Accused Sikandar Machuwa on his own appeared
at the PS and he was kept at PS. On the next the accused was arrested. On
18.06.2017 he went to the place of occurrence i.e. residence of informant and
accused at Khorhat Machi Line and drawn a sketch map of the PO. Exbt. 2 Is
the said sketch map. During investigation he has collected the medical report
and statement given by victim in court. Exbt. 3 is the statement of the victim
given in Court u/s 164 Cr. P.C. He could not collect age proof document of the
victim as she did not go to school. On completion of investigation, he has
Submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 376 IPC. Exbt. 4 is the charge
Sheet. In his cross-examination, the |/O admitted that by relying on the age of
the victim, as mentioned in medical certificate, he has submitted charge sheet
u/s 376 IPC. He did not make any other inquiry on the age of the victim. From
the statement of the victim, though it appears that alleged act of physical
relation continued for about 3-4 years, he did not make any investigation on
the matter of use of contraceptive by the victim during making physical relation
by the accused to avoid pregnancy. |/O has denied the defence suggestions
that as the physical relation was on consent, submission of charge sheet u/s

376 IPC was not proper.

15. From the above evidence on record, let me decide the points

formulated for just decision of this case.

16. Point No. I: So far point No. | is concerned, from the evidence of
victim (P.W. 1) it appears that on stopping of her menstruation, during house
visit by local Asha Karmi, she informed her about stopping of her menstruation.
On knowing this said Asha Karmi took her to Demow Hospital and after having

urine test, her pregnancy was ascertained. This part of evidence so far the fact

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 7 of 21
that on the date of filing of the FIR victim was taken to Demow Hospital was
not challenged. P.W. 2, the informant Meenakshi Machuwa, P.W. 3 Miss Mainu
Machuwa and P.W. 4 Sri Deepjyoti Goala, who accompanied the victim to
hospital for her pregnancy test has supported the evidence of the victim that
upon urine test her pregnancy was confirmed by the attending Doctor. This is
also not in dispute that thereafter FIR was lodged and police took her for
medical checkup at Sivasagar Civil Hospital. From the evidence of P.W. 5,
Medical Officer of Sivasagar Civil Hospital who has examined the victim 'D' after
registration of the case, has deposed that on 16.06.2017 he examined the
victim 'D' at Sivasagar Civil Hospital and upon examination he determined that
the victim was carrying 24 weeks of single viable intra-uterine pregnancy. M.O.
has proved his report as Exbt. 5. From the evidence of P.W.1, the victim it also
appears that she has delivered one male child at Sivasagar Civil Hospital and
said child was living with her at Snehalaya, Sivasagar. All these facts though put
to the accused in his 313 Cr.P.C examination, he simply stated his ignorance
about the pregnancy and delivery of child by the victim. The evidence of the
witnesses and M.O. (P.W. 5) clearly proved that on the date of filing FIR, the

victim was pregnant for about 24 weeks.

17. Point No. Il: Now the question falls for determination is whether the
accused was responsible for causing the pregnancy of victim. Before dealing
with, there is an interrelated question regarding age of the victim on the date of

alleged occurrence.

18. In the course of argument hearing, learned Special P.P. by
referring to the contents of the FIR and the evidence of P.W. 1 and 2 has
submitted that in the FIR, age of the victim was mentioned as 14 years by P.W.
2 who is the wife of the accused. During her evidence on 08.12.17, the victim
claimed her age as 14 years, whereas P.W. 2 has claimed the age of the victim
as 17 years. However, in the medical report (Exbt. 5), P.W.5, the M.O. has
opined that the age of the victim as above 18 years on the date of examination.

M.O. did not gave the upper age limit. Learned Special P.P. has submitted that

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 8 of 21
as the medical determination of age is just an opinion and that law is well
settled that such opinion may vary for two years on either side, court should
presume that the victim girl was below 18 years of age, both on the date of
examination and on the date of alleged occurrence of penetrative sexual assault
leading to her pregnancy. Refuting the arguments on age, learned Advocate Mr.
Anil Ch. Dutta, appearing for the accused by referring to the cross examination
of the victim and P.W. 2 has submitted that both the witnesses have admitted
that they disclose the age of the victim on assumption. As such, this court has
no option but to accept the age as determined by P.W. 5, M.O. who ascertained
the age of the victim on the basis of radiological report which appears to be
more reliable in the present circumstances of the case. | have considered the

submissions of both the sides.

19. Admittedly, the victim did not go to school and have no birth
certificate of her own. It is in the evidence that on the death of father of the
victim, the P.W. 2 being aunt, keep the victim with her since her childhood. It
may be noted here that P.W. 2 in her evidence stated that (deposing on
08.12.17) victim attained puberty about three years back. This fact has find
place in the medical examination report as noted by medical officer. Thus
taking this clue and having general presumption that the girl of this region
attains puberty at the age of 13-14 years, if we take the time of puberty three
years back, it appears that the age of the victim as disclosed by P.W. 2 though
on assumption as 17 years, appears to be more reliable. As the medical
evidence can vary two years on either side and the Doctor has opined the age
above 18 years, it appears to me that, if we deduct two years from the age
determined by the M.O. (P.W. 5) it will be proper to accept the age of the
victim as about 17 years on the alleged date of filing FIR. My above finding also
appears to be probable by considering the number of teeth (14/14) in the

medical report.

20. Even for argument sake, if it is taken that the age of the victim is

above 18 years on the date of examination, then also in this case from the

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 9 of 21
evidence of P.W. 1, the victim it appears that while she started growing up
since last about three years accused used to sneak into her room at night hours
and commits misdeed. So offence of penetrative sexual assault took place while

admittedly the victim was minor i.e. below 16 years of age.

21. Apart from above, in a allegation of rape, the age of a victim is
normally has no relevance if the alleged occurrence of sex was done without
consent or such consent obtained by fraud, under fear or coercion. Hence in a
case of this nature if it proved that there was cohabitation with the victim by

the accused the burden that it was on consent shifted to accused.

22. To ascertain all these, let me first decide the role of the accused.
In the course of argument hearing, learned P.P. has submitted that by applying
the provision of Section 29 of POCSO Act, 2012 court shall presume that
whatever the allegation brought by the victim against the accused with whom
she used to reside since her childhood be treated as true as the defence has
failed to rebut the said allegation brought against him which are otherwise
found probable in all circumstances. On the other hand learned Advocate Mr.
Anil Ch. Dutta, appearing for the accused in his pain taking argument has
submitted that the allegations as leveled have many flaws and cannot be relied
upon due to inconsistency and lack of normal human behaviour. Learned
defence counsel has submitted that according to the victim, she was subjected
to cohabitation for last three years and there was no evidence of any pregnancy
during that long period of cohabitation and only after having 24 weeks
pregnancy, on visit of NGO workers (Asha Karmi) the victim disclosed the fact
of stopping of menstruation and this cast a serious doubt on the reliability of
the evidence of the victim and applicability of Section 29 of POCSO Act 2012.
Learned defence counsel has also argued that as the victim was above 18 years
of age, even if it is presumed that accused has cohabited with her, it must be
treated with her consent, as she never made any complaint or allegation of
physical co-habitation to anybody else till the date of filing FIR. In support of

his argument, learned defence counsel has relied the following case laws: (1)

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 10 of 21
2017 (1) GLT 276, (ii) 2011 SCC (14) 671, (ili) 2007 CRI. L.J. 1615, (iv) 2006 (3)
GLT 585, (v) AIR 2011 SC 2564 and (vi) 2016 (2) Crimes 340. | have

considered the submission of both the sides.

23. There is no dispute to the fact that from the childhood the victim
was brought up by the accused at his house and that in that house accused
used to reside with his wife and 2 children. This fact was duly corroborated by
the evidence of P.W. 1 and P.W. 2 and was also admitted by the accused in his
313 Cr.P.C. examination. There is also no dispute to the fact that on the date of
filing FIR, on visit of the Asha Karmi victim disclosed the fact of stopping of her
menstruation and accordingly she was taken to hospital where her pregnancy
was confirmed and then FIR was lodged by the wife of the accused. There is
nothing on record to show that prior to this the victim has disclosed the alleged
penetrative sexual assault by the accused on her except P.W. 2. The victim in
her examination-in-chief has categorically stated that since about last three
years, at night hours, accused Sikandar Machuwa came to her room and
commits misdeed by opening her cloths by establishing physical relation.
Accused did not care to her resistance and also used to threaten her not
divulge about commission of misdeed to others. When she reported the matter
to Meenakshi Machuwa (P.W. 2), wife of the accused, she disbelieved her. She
also asked her not to divulge the matter to others and by this way accused
continued to make sexual relation with her for long. During her cross
examination she reaffirmed that though Asha Karmi used to visit frequently
residence of the locality, but as her maternal aunt asked her not to divulge the
matter, she did not inform the matter either to Asha Karmi or to neighbours.
She also reaffirmed that out of fear of harm by accused she did not disclose the
matter to others. She denied the defence suggestion that she had illicit relation
with a local boy and on being restrained by accused and his wife, she has
falsely implicated the accused. From the evidence of P.W. 2 it appears that on
Knowing about stopping of her menstruation, on asking the victim told her that

accused Sikandar Machuwa used to sneak on her bed and through Sikandar she

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 11 of 21
became pregnant. In her cross examination P.W. 2, wife of the accused has
affirmed the fact that victim has reported the matter to her. Though she stated
that at night hours her husband used to sleep with her and she never seen her
husband missing from bed or that she never doubt on her husband for keeping
illicit relation with the victim, but this much of evidence failed to demolish the
evidence of P.W. 1, the victim as fact of reporting of sexual relation got
admitted by PW 2. The defence suggestion as put forward to victim that the
victim had illicit relation with a local boy did not get any support from P.W. 2.
P.W. 3 and P.W. 4 who are the NGO workers took the victim to hospital on
knowing about the incident of child abuse in the locality came to the house of
the accused Sikandar Machuwa and with the consent of his wife they took the
victim to Demow Hospital with the wife of the accused. They also deposed that
on asking the victim told them that she was pregnant through Sikandar whom
she used to call as Mama. Thus it appears that at the first instance she took the
name of accused and there is nothing to disbelieve her on this count. So from
the above discussions it appears that the evidence of victim so far implicating
the accused Sikandar Machuwa for making physical relation with her is found

reliable and trustworthy.

24. It may be mentioned here that the argument of learned defence
counsel that the victim did not disclose the incident for long three years has to
be looked into on the factual situation by keeping in mind that the victim was
brought up by the accused and P.W. 2 since her childhood as she was orphan.
Her evidence is that accused used to threaten her for not to divulge the
incident to others and that P.W. 2, the wife of the accused who lodged the FIR
after knowing the incident also asked her not divulge to others clearly shows
that the victim was under threat of her future. In her cross-examination victim
has categorically admitted that she was also under fear of harm by accused, if
she disclose the fact of misdeed to others. In this context, it is pertinent to
mention here that the victim is a rural rustic uneducated orphan girl having not

attained so much of maturity must be concerned of her future and there is

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 12 of 21
every reason for not divulging the incident of penetrative sexual assault or
stopping of menstruation on her by the accused to the neighbours or the Asha

Karmi on earlier occasion out of fear of displacement or losing of shelter.

25. The other argument as advanced by learned defence counsel that
the victim should be treated as a consenting party. Let me look at the law on

this aspect.

26. In the case of Zakir Ali VS State of Assam, [2007 (3) GLT 497:
2007 Cri. LJ 1615] as cited by learned advocate for the accused, while
dealing with section 90 IPC Hon'ble Gauhati High Court has held as follows:

“( 12 ) While considering the above aspect of the case, it needs to be
pointed out that the Indian Penal Code does not define "consent" in
positive terms. There is, however, a negative definition of the word
"consent" in Section 90 of the Indian Penal Code, which lays down as to
what cannot be regarded as "consent" under the Indian Penal Code.
The relevant provisions of Section 90 IPC read as under :

"90. Consent known to be given under fear or
misconception.-A consent is not such a consent as is
intended by any section of this Code, if the consent is given by
a person under fear of injury, or under a misconception of fact,
and if the person doing the act Knows, or has reason to believe,
that the consent was given in consequence of such fear or
misconception. .... "

( 13 ) From a minute reading of Section 90 IPC, which explains as to
what cannot be regarded as ‘consent’ for the purpose of the Indian
Penal Code, it becomes clear that 'consent' given under fear of injury,
or under a misconception of fact, is not a 'consent' at all. It is, however,
worth noticing that giving of ‘consent' under fear of injury or
misconception of fact is not sufficient to hold that no consent existed
unless it is further established that the wrongdoer knew, or had reason
to believe, that the consent given was in consequence of such fear or
misconception. The factors, set out in the first part of Section 90,
namely, that the consent given by a person under fear of injury or
under misconception of fact is not consent are from the point of view of
the victim; whereas the factors, set out in the second part of Section
90, namely, that the person doing the act knows, or has reason to
believe, that consent was given in consequence of such fear or
misconception are corresponding provisions from the point of view of
the accused. Thus, the second part of Section 90 lays emphasis on the

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 13 of 21
knowledge or reasonable belief of the person, who obtains consent,
that the consent given by the victim is in consequence of fear of injury
or misconception of fact. What is, however, of paramount importance
to note is that the existence of the twin requirements of Section 90
must be cumulatively satisfied in order to enable a Court to hold that no
consent in law existed at the relevant time. In other words, when these
two conditions precedent are co-existent in a case, it can be safely held
that no consent, as envisaged under the Indian Penal Code, existed.
Such a finding can be reached by examining as to whether the person,
giving consent, had given the same under fear of injury or
misconception of fact and, further, whether the offender knew, or had
reason to believe, that but for fear or misconception of fact, ‘consent’
would not have been given. These aspects of the word "consent", as
envisaged under the Indian Penal Code, have been succinctly described
in Deelip Singh @ Dilip Kumar Vs. State of Bihar, reported in (2005) 1
SCC 88.

( 14 ) In the light of what has been indicated above, it becomes clear
that the submission of the body by a woman under fear or
misconception of fact cannot be construed as consented sexual act for
the purpose of Section 375 IPC, for, Section 375 IPC requires voluntary
participation by the victim not only after the exercise of intelligence
based on the knowledge of the significance and moral quality of the
act, but after having fully exercised the choice between resistance and
assent. Whether consent existed or not has to be ascertained on the
basis of the facts of a given case. [See State of Himachal Pradesh Vs.
Mango Ram, reported in (2000) 7 SCC 224.”

( 19 ) Referring to its observations, made in Uday's case (supra), that it
is the prosecution's burden to prove absence of a valid ‘consent’ in
order to attract the ingredients of the offence of rape, the Apex Court,
in Deelip Singh (supra), has clarified that while reading its said
observations made in Uday (supra), the Courts must remember that
this proportion would not apply if a case is covered by the provisions of
Section 114a of the Evidence Act, which, | may point out, lays down
that in a prosecution for rape under sub-section (2) of Section 376 IPC,
where sexual intercourse by the accused is proved and the question is
whether it was without the consent of the woman alleged to have been
raped and she states in her evidence before the Court that she did not
consent, the Court shall presume that she did not consent.

( 20 ) What transpires from the above observations made in Deelip
Singh (Supra) is that in a prosecution under Section 376 (2) IPC, when
sexual intercourse by the accused with the prosecutrix is proved to
have taken place and the prosecutrix, in such a case, claims, in her
evidence before the Court, that she had not consented to the sexual
act, the Court shall draw a presumption that she had not consented to

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 14 of 21
the sexual act and the burden would, then, shift to the accused to
prove that his sexual act with the prosecutrix was with her consent. The
burden on the accused to discharge such presumption would, however,
not be as heavy as on the prosecution if the prosecution, in a given
case, IS required to prove that the consent did not exist.

27. Hon'ble Gauhati High Court in the case Bipul Medhi vs State of
Assam [2006 (3) GLT 585] as cited by defence has expressed similar opinion
on the meaning of consent and further held that whether the consent was
given under a misconception of fact and, in the ultimate analysis, it is on the
basis of the facts of each case, as may be discernible from the evidence on
record and the surrounding circumstances, that the Court has to decide the
question a to whether the consent given was voluntary or was under a

misconception of fact.”

28. This from the above case laws it appears that once when sexual
intercourse by the accused with the prosecutrix is proved to have taken place
and the prosecutrix, in such a case, claims, in her evidence before the Court,
that she had not consented to the sexual act, the Court shall draw a
presumption that she had not consented to the sexual act and the burden
would, then, shift to the accused to prove that his sexual act with the
prosecutrix was with her consent. The burden is on the accused to discharge
such presumption would, however, not be as heavy to prove that the consent

exists.

29. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of K.P. Thimmappa
Gowda v. State of Karnataka, (2011) 14 SCC 475 : AIR 2011 SC 2564 as

relied by learned defence counsel, has observed as followed:

“6. |1n the present case, the facts are that Rathnamma herself stated in
her evidence that she had sex with the appellant on several occasions. It
is also an admitted fact that the FIR against the appellant was lodged
just a few days before the birth of Rathnamma's child, which means
there is delay of over 8 months in lodging the FIR. The finding of the
trial court, which has not been disturbed by the High Court, is that
Rathnamma was about 18 years of age at the relevant time. On these
facts a view is reasonably possible that Rathnamma had sex with the

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 15 of 21
appellant with her consent and hence there was no offence under
Section 376 IPC because sex with a woman above 16 years of age with
her consent is not rape.”

30. This ratio of K.P. Thimmappa Gowda cannot be applies in the
case in hand simply because in the case in hand, as held by me there in no
consent from the victim. Moreover, the ratio is also otherwise not applicable as
it relates to law prior to amendment of definition of rape as well as coming of

Pocso Act in force.

31. Learned advocate of the accused by placing releiance on the
reported case of Amar Bahadur Singh v. State of U.P. (2011) 14 SCC 671
also submitted that accused being a poor tea garden worker and lived in small
house, there is no possibility of sex with the victim at night hours without the
knowledge of his wife and children, cannot be accepted to hold water to show
that either there was no physical relation or it was with consent of the victim
being major. In this case Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in a particular fact has
held as follows:
“5. We find merit in this plea. We find that under the circumstance the
possibility that rape could have been committed on her in the presence
of so many members in a small house is difficult to believe. On the
contrary the findings of the High Court that the prosecutrix was a
consenting party appear to be correct and it was perhaps when the
accused and the prosecutrix had been caught red-handed that the story
of rape had been cooked up, to salvage some of the family honour. This
is often the tendency in such matters. The High Court has therefore

gone completely wrong in dismissing the appeal even after its categorical
observations.”

32. Above ratio cannot be applies in the case in hand simply because
defence has failed to take any description of the rooms to show that sneaking
into the room of the victim is not possible by the accused without the

knowledge of the other family members.

33. From the above case laws it appears the defence argument
cannot be accepted because, in her evidence as P.W.1 the victim has

categorically stated that though she resisted the accused, but accused did not

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 16 of 21
care for the same and after threatening her made physical relation. Even if
assuming that consent was given by the victim due to long relation, it must be
held that consent, if any, same was obtained under threat and as such consent
cannot be treated as valid consent. Moreover in view of the fact that victim was
a minor girl on the date of filing FIR, value of any such consent becomes

immaterial.

34, The last limb of argument by defence is of delay in lodging FIR i.e.
after six week of pregnancy and three years of sexual relationship by accused.
In the course of argument learned advocate for the defence has place reliance
on the reported case of Nazimul Hussain VS. State of Assam & Anr. [2017 (1)
GLT 276]. In this case as relied by defence, Hon'ble Gauhati High Court has set
aside the conviction of the accused on the fact that FIR was lodged after about
15 months and that there was doubt regarding presence of accused in the
village at the relevant time. The ratio of this case cannot be applied in the case
in hand as facts are clearly distinguishable. As discussed earlier, from the PW 3
and 4 it appears that knowing about incident of sexual abuse at the residence
of accused, they went there and after much persuasion and assurance, the
victim disclosed about stopping of her menstruation and named the accused as
responsible for her pregnancy. Immediately on the same day she was taken to
Demow PS the FIR got lodged. | have already held that the victim being orphan
and was out of fear, she could not divulge her physical condition cannot be
ignored in deciding the point of delay in bringing the matter to police. Under
the facts of this case, | held that the so called delay in filling the FIR is not fatal

to prosecution.

35. At this stage | would like to deal with the prosecution argument
regarding applicability of Section 29 of POCSO Act 2012 in this case. Section 29
of Pocso Act read as follows:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences - Where a person Is prosecuted

for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence
under Section 3, 5, 7 and Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall

 

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 17 of 21
presume, that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to
commit the offence, as the case may be, unless the contrary is proved.”

36. Hon'ble Gauhati High Court in the case of Manik Lodh VS State of
Assam [2007 (3) GLT 207] had the occasion to deliberate upon on meaning
of “presumption of law” as held as follows:
( 18 ) What is, now, of immense importance to note is that while a
presumption of fact can be rebutted by an accused by offering an
explanation, which is reasonable and plausible, a presumption of law

cannot be discharged by explanation alone. What must be proved is
that the explanation is true.

37. As discussed earlier, in this case the defence has failed to rebut
the presumption exists in favour of prosecution that victim is telling the truth.
Evidence of the victim is otherwise also found reliable and trustworthy, even

without presumption of this Section.

38. Considering all above, | have no hesitation to hold that accused
Sikandar Machuwa has committed the offence of penetrative sexual assault
upon the victim 'D', a minor girl and make himself liable for punishment under
the provision of POCSO Act 2012.

39, In view of the evidence of the victim that she was subjected to
continuous penetrative sexual assault by the accused and that the accused is a
relative being the husband of her father's sister and that he made the victim
pregnant as a consequence of continuous sexual assault under the provision of
Section 5 (j) (ii), 5 (I) and 5 (n) of POCSO Act 2012, the offence of penetrative
sexual assault becomes aggravated penetrative sexual assault and he
made himself liable for punishment U/S 6 of POCSO Act 2012. 22.

40. To sum up the discussion, | am of the considered opinion that
prosecution has been able to prove the ingredients of offence as made
punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act 2012.

4l. In view of above, | hold the accused Sikandar Machuwa guilty for
the offence punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and accordingly he is
convicted for the offence punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 18 of 21
42. | have considered the applicability of Section 3 & 4 of Probation of
Offenders Act in this case. Considering the nature of the offence proved by the
prosecution and also considering the punishment provided for the offence, | am
not inclined to extend the benefit of the benevolent provisions of law to the

accused.

43. Heard the accused on the point of sentence. His statement is
recorded in separate sheets. | have also heard learned Advocate for both the
sides. Learned Special PP has prayed for awarding maximum punishment for
the accused. Learned defence counsel has prayed for leniency in sentence by

narrating the family background of the accused.

44. Considering the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances,
family back ground of the accused, | am of the considered opinion that the
minimum punishment provided by law for committing aggravated penetrative

sexual assault on a child will meet the ends of justice.

45. Accordingly, convict Sikandar Machuwa is sentenced to undergo
rigorous imprisonment (RI) for 10 (ten) years for committing the offence
punishable U/S 6 of Pocso Act, 2012 and also to pay a fine of Rs. 2000/- only,
i/d further SI of 2 (two) month.

46. Convict Sikandar Machuwa is remanded to District J ail, Sivasagar

to serve out the remaining part of sentence.

47. Convict Sikandar Machuwa is entitled for the benefit of Section

428 Cr.P.C. for the period already undergone during investigation and trial.

48. Considering the fact of imposing meager amount of fine due to
poor financial back ground of the convict, no order is passed for payment of

compensation to victim s U/S 357 Cr.P.C.

49. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the matter is
referred to DLSA Sivasagar for exploring the possibility of granting

compensation U/S 357A Cr.P.C. to the victim, who is now residing at

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 19 of 21
Snehalaya, Sivasagar (a children home run by NGO). Send a copy of the

judgment to Secretary DLSA Sivasagar for needful action.

50. Let a free of cost copy of the judgment be given to the convict

Sikandar Machuwa immediately as per the provisions of Section 363(1) Cr.P.C.

51. Convict Sikandar Machuwa is informed about his right of appeal
against the judgment and order of conviction and sentence either by appointing

his own advocate or though legal aid panel advocate or by way of Jail Appeal.

52. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

53. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this 146 day of May, 2018
at Sivasagar.

Special | udge,
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 20 of 21
APPENDIX
. Prosecution witnesses -

P.W.1- Victim 'D'

P.W.2- Smt. Meenakshi Machuwa (Informant)
P.W.3- Miss Mainu Machuwa

P.W.4- Sri Deep J yoti Gowala

P.W.5- Dr. Sanjib Mahanta (M.O.)

P.W.6- Sri Ashim J yoti Buragohain (1.0.)

. Defence witnesses : None

. Court witnesses ; None

. Exhibits by prosecution -

Exbt.1 - FIR

Exbt.2 - Sketch map

Exbt.3 - 164Cr.P.C. statement of the victim 'D'

Exbt.4 - Charge-Sheet
Exbt.5 - Medical examination report of victim 'D'

Special | udge,

Spl. (P) Case No. 28/2017 Page 21 of 21
