IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, BAJALI,
PATHSALA

Spl. POCSO Case No. 09 of 2018
U/S - 8 of POCSO Act, 2012.
State
- Versus -
Habijur Rahman
: Accused person.
Present :
Sri L.K. Saikia, AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, Bajali, Pathsala.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Smti. Dhira Devi Ld. Addl. P. P.
For the accused persons : Sri Ranjit Kalita, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidences: 22-11-2019.

Date of recording statements u/s 313 CrP.C. : 26-11-2019.

Date of Argument : 26-11-2019
Date of Judgment : 26-11-2019.

J] UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that, one Jainuddin Ali
lodged an ejahar on 25/06/2018 with the I/C Sarupeta Out Post
alleging, inter-alia, that on 24/06/2018 at about 9 pm one Hafijur
Rahman with inauspicious intention by inducing took the daughter of
the informant in the backside of his house and assaulted her
physically, also various parts of her body. On being searched, his father
recovered the victim and apprehended the accused person with the
help village people. Hence, this case.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, Sarupeta OP registered a GD
Entry No. 643 dated 25/06/2018 and forwarded the same to

Page No. 1 of 6
Patacharkuchi Police Station to register a case under proper section of
law and accordingly it was registered as Patacharkuchi P. S. Case No.
408/18 u/s 12 of POCSO Act.

3. During investigation police visited the place of
occurrence, prepared sketch map of the place of occurrence, recorded
the statements of witnesses including the victim girl, conducted
medical examination of the victim, produced her before the Court
wherein the Ld. Magistrate recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C, and
after completion of investigation, having been found prima-facie case,
the I/O filed charge sheet u/s 12 of Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act 2012 against the accused person. Thereafter, the
accused was arrested and sent before the Trial Court.

4. On being summoned the accused person, entered his
appearance and copies were furnished to him and after hearing the
learned Addl. P. P. appearing for the State and the learned defence
counsel and on perusal of materials available in the record that
furnished by police u/s 173 Cr.P.C., having been found sufficient
grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed the
offence, framed the formal charge u/s 8 of Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act 2012 IPC. The charge so framed was read over
and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined
altogether 2 (two) PWs i.e. the informant and the victim and after
examinations of these witnesses, the Ld. Addl. PP submits that the vital
material witnesses have already been examined and there is no
chance of further development of the prosecution story and hence,
prays to close the prosecution evidence.

6. Heard the Ld. Addl. PP appearing for the state. Perused
the case record and considering the submission put forwarded by the
Ld. Addl. PP the evidence of prosecution side is closed.

7. The defence plea is of total denial. The accused person
was examined u/s 313 of Cr. P C. wherein he denied all such

Page No. 2 of 6
allegations leveled against him by the prosecution witnesses. The
defence side has not adduced any defence evidence.

8. Heard argument of learned Addl. P. P and the learned

defence counsel.
9. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person on 24/06/2018 at about 9 pm
committed sexual assault on the victim by touching her breast
and also tried to commit illegal work with her and thereby
committed an offence punishable u/s 8 of Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act 2012 ?

EVIDENCE OF THE WITNESSES

10. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me see what the
witnesses have stated.

11. PW 1 Md. Jainuddin Ali deposed that on 24/06/2018 at
about 8.30 pm the accused person tried to kidnap his sister and at that
time he was not present at the house. He came to know about the incident
from the villagers. Thereafter he lodged an FIR against the accused. Ext. 1
is the FIR and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. Police seized the birth certificate of

his sister vide Ext. 2.

In cross-examination, PW 1 deposed that after 15 to 20
minutes later of the happening of the incident while the accused was
going through the embankment, the villagers on suspect caught hold
upon him. He had not seen anything about the incident.

12. PW 2 the victim deposed that one day at about 9 pm while
she was going to nearby tube-well at her house for washing utensil then
someone called her in the dark and asked her name and father's name
and it was noticed by some village people. Seeing them the villagers
suspected them and caught hold the accused person. Her brother lodged
the FIR as instigated by the villagers. After filing the FIR Police sent her to
the FAAMCH, Barpeta for medical examination and after that she was

Page No. 3 of 6
produced before the Court wherein Ld. Magistrate had recorded her
statement vide Ext. 3.

In cross-examination, PW 2 stated that while she was
washing utensil at the backside of their house then no one was present
there. She stated before the Id. Magistrate as tutored and instigated by
her brother against the accused. Nothing had happened as stated
before the Ld. Magistrate.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS, AND REASONS THEREOF

 

L3. Perused the case record and also gone through the

provision of law.

14. PW 1 the informant stated that when the incident took
place he was not present and he had not seen anything regarding the
incident. He came to know about the incident from the villagers and on
suspect he lodged the FIR as instigated by the villagers.

15. The victim PW 2 in her evidence categorically stated that
nothing had happened as stated in the FIR and her brother had lodged
the FIR as instigated by the villagers. She stated before the Ld.
Magistrate while recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as tutored
and instigated by her brother. The accused person is no any way

involved in the alleged occurrence.

16. On precise analysis and scrutiny of evidence on record, it
is found that the instant case has been arisen due to suspect of the
fact. On the day of incident, nothing had happened as stated by the
victim in her evidence and the villagers on suspect caught hold the
accused person. The informant had filed the FIR as per instigation of
the villagers. The entire case is based upon the fact of

misunderstanding.

17. As held by the Apex Court cannot go beyond the evidence,
Court is to confine only on the evidence on record. So, in the above,
case we cannot go beyond the evidence. The evidence available from
the record that nothing had happened as projected by the prosecution
which was affirmed by the victim.

Page No. 4 of 6
18. In view of above, it can be safely concluded that the
prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused person as
required under the law.

19. Accordingly, the accused Habijur Rahman is acquitted of
the offences charged u/s 8 of the Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act 2012 and set him at liberty forthwith.

20. The bail bond of the accused person is extended for
further period of another 6 (six) months u/s 437 (A) Cr.PC.C

21. A copy of this judgment be given to the _ District
Magistrate, Barpeta u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

22. The Spl. POCSO Case is disposed of accordingly.

23. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court
in presence of both the parties and | put my hand and seal of this Court
on this 26th day of November, 2019.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
Dictated & Corrected
by me

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Alakesh

Page No. 5 of 6
APPENDIX :-

Oral evidences :-
PW-1 Md. Jainuddin Ali
PW-2 victim.

Documentary evidence :-

Ext. 1- FIR
Ext. 2 - Seizure list.
Ext. 3 - Statement.

Defence evidence.

NIL

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Page No. 6 of 6
