IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC)::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,

Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State

Learned Counsel for the defence

Special Case No.56/2018

U/S. 366(A) IPC R/W Section 6(1I) of
POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM
Vs

Md. Sattar Alli

S/O Lt. Hafa Sk

Vill. Bamungaon Pt. Ill
P.S & Dist. Kokrajhar

beeeeaes Accused person.

Mr. Manjit Kumar Ghosh
Mr. S. Pahariya

Charge framed on 26.02.2019
Evidence recorded on 16.03.2019; 13.05.2019
Argument heard on 09.07.2019
Judgment pronounced on 09.07.2019
UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that on 10.06.2018

one Star G Sangma, General Secretary of Garo Students

Union lodged a written FIR with the Officer-in-charge of

Kokrajhar Police Station alleging that accused Sattar Ali has

been sexually abusing the victim, a minor girl of Garo

Community, and on 10.05.2018 the accused abducted the

victim but he was apprehended by police.
2. On receipt of the FIR, a case U/S 366(A) of IPC R/W

Section 6 (Il) of POCSO Act was registered and investigated.

3. Upon completion of investigation, a charge sheet
was laid against the accused for commission of offences U/S
366(A) of IPC R/W Section 6 (Il) of POCSO Act. Later, the

case was transferred to this Court for disposal.

4. On appearance of the accused, copies of the
relevant documents were furnished to him and upon
hearing both sides, charges U/S 366(A) of IPC R/W Section
6 (1) of POCSO Act were framed against the accused to

which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to trial.

5. In the course of trial, prosecution examined 5
witnesses. At the closer of prosecution evidence, accused
person was examined U/S 313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence
plea is of total denial and the accused declined to adduce

any evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused committed an
offence U/S 366(A) of IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused committed sexual
assault U/S 6 (lI) of POCSO Act ?

DECISION WITH REASONS :

6. P.W.4, is the victim of this case. She deposed that
she does not know the accused. She also deposed that
about one year back she had gone Salkocha market and

since she was in the market alone during the evening hours,
police took her to Police Station and informed her maternal
uncle Billiam Marak. PW4 has also deposed that Billiam

Marak brought her home.

7. In cross examination PW4 deposed that she is

married to Ranjit Sangma for the last 2 years.

8. PW2 Disester Marak deposed that he knows the
informant. He also deposed that about 10/11 months back
he received an information from Salkocha Police that a Garo
girl has been detained at the Police Station. He alongwith
other students went to Salkocha Police Station and brought
back the victim. The victim informed him that she loves

Sattar Ali, the accused.

9. PW3, Billiam Marak is the maternal uncle of the
victim. He deposed that he received an information from
Salkocha Police Station that a Garo girl namely xxx, has
been detained at Salkocha Police Station. PW3 also deposed
that he, alongwith the members of Garo Student Union,
went to Salkocha Police Station and brought the victim. PW3
has also deposed that the victim disclosed that she is in

love of accused.

10. PW5, Habid Marak is the father of the victim. He
deposed that her daughter had gone to Salkocha market
but when she did not return in the evening, Billiam Marak
received a call for for police that the victim has been

detained in the Salkocha Police Station. PW5 deposed that
Billiam Marak brought her daughter back to home.

11. The evidence of the material witnesses have been
reproduced above. The evidence does not establish the
involvement of the accused for the commission of offence
as alleged. The victim deposed that she does not even
know the accused. The evidence only shows that the victim
was detained in police station and that she was brought
from police station. The victim does not implicate the
accused in any manner. So being the evidence, a conviction

for the offences charged cannot be sustained.

12. In view of this evidence on record there appears no
reason for holding the accused guilty for the offences
charged. In the result the point for determination is

answered negative.

ORDER

Accused Sattar Ali is acquitted of the charges
under Section 366 (A) of IPC and R/W Section
6(1) of the POCSO Act and set at liberty
forthwith.
His bail bonds shall remain valid for six
months.
Given under the hand and seal of this Court
on this 9" day of July,2019.

Dictated by: -

Addl. Special Judge(FTC), Addl. Special Judge(FTC),
Kokrajhar, Kokrajhar
Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-

Exhibit- NIL

2. Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1 Star G. Sangma
P.W.2 Disester Marak
P.W.3 Billiam Marak
P.W.4 Victim
P.W.5 Habid Marak
4.Defence Witness Nil
5. Court witness Nil

Addl Special Judge(FTC),
Kokrajhar
