IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE ......... CACHAR.
SPL. POCSO CASE NO. I5of 2016
(U/S 4 of POCSO ACT)
Present:-Shri K. Choudhury, LL.M.,

Sessions Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM 2.0.0... cccccc cece neces ee eeeeneees Complainant.
- Versus-

Amir Khan @ Bachhu.
S/O Monir Khan.
Motinagar, Raman-nagar T-E..
Kachudaram PS. rin Accused person.
Charge framed OM:- ........ 00. cccc cece eee e eee ee eee eeeneee eee eees 23-08-16.
P.Ws. examined on :- ...............08-09-16, 09-09-16, 28-09-16 & 31-10-16.
Statement of accused recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C :- ...... 02-11-16.
Argument heard On: ............c cece cee e cece cece eee eee enee sete eenes 03-01-17.
Judgment pronounced and delivered on:- ................eeeeeee es 06-01-17.

Learned Counsel Appeared
For the State:-Mr.S.Dutta, Ld. PP.
For the Accused :-Mr.D. Sengupta& Muktar Uddin.Advocate.

JUDGMENT
1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 07-07-16 at about 9.00 p.m.
when the minor daughter of the complainant, here in below referred as
victim, was returning to her house from her outside toilet suddenly the
accused caught hold her from behind, and gagged her mouth by a piece of

cloth, and forcibly removing her wearing apparels committed rape on her
for about five minutes. During tussle the tying clothe got loose and she
could raised alarm calling her mother. Accused then jumped up and kicked
her causing injuries on her right leg. Her mother came out and took her to
their house. The matter was informed to her father who then informed the

matter to the parents of the accused who drove them out with threatening.

2. To this effect FIR was lodged. The same was registered as
Kachudaram P.S. case No. 77/16 U/S 447/506 IPC R.W. Sec. 4 of
Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act 2012 (POCSO).

3. During investigation the victim was medically examined and
she was also produced before the Magistrate for giving statement U/S 164
Cr.P.C. Doctor found her age as above 14 and below 16 years. On
completion of the investigation the I.O. submitted charge sheet against the
accused U/S 447 IPC R.W. Sec of 4 of the POCSO Act 2012. The accused
was forwarded to this Court. Copies of all necessary police papers were
furnished to the accused. After hearing both sides and consideration of the
materials available on the record, this Court framed formal charge against
the accused U/S4 of the POCSO Act. The charge was read over and

explained to which the accused pleaded not guilty. Hence, trial began.

4. To prove the case prosecution examined as many as seven
witnesses including the M.O. and the I/O. Defence plea is of false
implication. Further plea is that the victim had some relation with one
Kalam and the matter was reported on one or two times by the sister of the
accused to the parents of the victim, and at the material time the victim
was found gossiping with said Kalam and when the accused saw the same

the victim rushed towards her house and on the way she fell on the
Courtyard. Accused during his examination U/S 313 of Cr.P.C. stated that
at the material time seeing the victim standing near the toilet of the
accused wanted to know as to why she was there at night. While making
such query he threatened her. She out of fear being threatened rushed
towards her house and on the way fell down on the Courtyard and raising
hue and crymade false allegation.

5. Now, point for decision is as to whether, under the facts and
circumstances of the case, the accused committed any penetrative sexual

assault on the victim being punishable U/s 4 of POCSO Act.

6. To decide the above I have heard learned counsel of both sides at
length and perused the evidence on record. Findings, decision and reasons

thereof are given below:

7. PW. 1 is the mother of the victim. She deposed that on the very
night of the alleged incident while she was taking meal, the victim went to
latrine which is situated at some distance from their house. After some
time hearing alarm of the victim she then came out and saw the accused to
flee away from near the latrine. On query the victim told to her mother,
P.W.1 that the accused removing her cloth outraged her modesty. After

sometime when father of the victim returned home the matter was reported.

8. P.W. 2 — Monilal Mohali, the father of the victim, deposed that
on the night of the alleged incident when he returned home at about 9-30
p.m. the victim reported that at about 9.00 p.m. on the back side of their
house near bamboo clump accused dragging her mouth made her fell on
the ground. He then went to the house of one Monoj a VDP Nayak and

reported about the incident with a request to make query. Mono] then came
to their house and consuled them. On that night one Noresh of their village
also came to their house and told them to keep peace for the night. On the
following morning some villagers and Noresh (VDP member) came to
their house and expressed to settle the matter but failed. After that at about
1-30/2.00p.m. he (P.W.2) along with the victim, wife and brother Mathura
went to the Police station and lodged ejahar. Ext-1 is the FIR. He further
deposed that the victim daughter was reading perhaps in Class-X in

Nikamoni High School and her age was 16 years.

9. PW. 3 —_ the victim of this case deposed that sister’s house of
the accused is situated at a distance of around 100 meters from her house.
On the night of alleged incident at about 9.00 p.m. she went to latrine
situated at a distance of 40 feet from her house. There was bamboo bushes
near the latrine. On the way back the accused caught hold her hair from
the back and gagged her mouth with a ‘gamcha’ and started scuffling with
her. The accused made her fell on the ground and removed her under
garments. The accused also removed her clothes and had sex with her.
During the tussle at the time of commission of sex the gamcha as fastened
around her mouth got somehow removed and she raised alarm. She further
deposed that the accused ride on her and hearing alarm got up and kicked
her causing injury on her right petala and fled away. Hearing alarm her
mother came and took her to their house. She reported the matter to her
mother who started abusing the accused. After that when her father came
she reported the matter to him. After that her father went to Monoj Lohar,
a member of VDP and returned with Monoj. When Monoj came to their
house the accused called her father from the Courtyard of his sister
adjacent to their house demarcated by a bamboo fencing. The accused

started saying her father about her behaviour. She then re-acted stating that
the accused misbehaved with her. She further deposed that on the
following morning the accused came to their house and stated that accused
was not involved with the alleged offence but another was involved.
Villagers also came and told to settle the matter by a bichar and asked her
for treatment. They waited for about 12’0 clock and after that she along
with her parents went to Kachudaram P.S. She disclosed the matter before
the Magistrate and also doctor. Ext-2(1) is her signature in the medical
report. Ext-3 is her statement. She categorically stated that she had no love
affairs with said Kalam who is the cousin of the accused. She discontinued
her study out of fear and due to slur on her character.

In the cross-examination she stated that she knew said
Kalam from her childhood and she used to treat the accused as her brother.
She further stated that the accused caught her from back side. At the time
of alleged occurrence sister of the accused and his brother-in-law were not
in the house and for that reason the accused was in the house of his sister.
At the material time the said Kalam was a student of Class 1x reading with
her in the same school. M.Ext-1 is the registration card of the victim

issued by SEBA.

10. PW. 4,Dr. Orina Raha deposed that on 8" July 2016 she
examined the victim who alleged that on 7" July at around 7.00 p.m. when
she was coming back from toilet outside her house a boy named as Bachhu
Khan 1.e. the alias name of the accused forcibly pulled her and tied her
mouth and removing all her clothes had sexual inter course with her. The
accused also kicked on her right knee for which she was having difficulty
in walking. The M.O. further deposed that right knee of the victim was
found swell on with difficulties in walking. According to the doctor on the

basis of physical including dental examination, radiological and laboratory
examination age of the victim was found as above 14 years and below 16
years.

In the cross-examination the doctor stated that the
mother of the victim was present and narrated the same history. Such type
of injury on the knee can also be caused by fall at the time of running on

hard substance.

11. PW. 5—  Monoj Lohar deposed that, on 07-07-16 at about 9/9-
30 p.m. father of the victim came to his house and took him. On query the
victim told that on that night at about 9.00 p.m. on the way back from
latrine the accused forcibly raped her and also assaulted on her right knee.
He further deposed that at that time he was a Nayak of village Defence
Party. The accused was found in the house of his sister adjacent to the
house of the victim. On query the accused started altercating with the

father of the victim and for that he returned.

12. P.W.6 - Noresh Mala deposed that on the night of alleged
incident at about 9-45 p.m. hearing hue and cry went to the house of the
victim. He heard altercation in between accused and the father of the
victim. On query father of the victim told that the accused used force on
the victim. The victim told that the accused caught hold her and tried to
fell her down. He did not ask anything more. He told them to keep peace

for the night and on the following morning the matter will be taken care of.

13. PW. 7—_ I.O. of this case deposed that on 07-07-16 on receipt
of the ejahar O/C of Kachudaram PS. registered the case U/S 4 of
POCSO Act. He was entrusted to investigate the case. During investigation

he examined the victim and other witnesses. He visited the P.O. Ext-5 is
the sketch map drawn by him. Victim was produced before doctor and also
Magistrate. On 08-07-16 he made attempt to apprehend the accused but
the accused was found absconding. Thereafter on 09-07-16 on receipt of
information to the affect that the accused was trying to flew away he
visited Motinagar Bus stand and found the accused sitting in a magic car at
around 7-30 a.m. Immediately the accused was apprehended. He further
deposed that the PO. was the back side of the homestead of the
complainant, full of plants and tress including the bamboo plants where
there was a toilet of the complainant. On the back side of the homestead of
the complainant there was old bamboo fencing. Somewhere the fencing
was found broken.

In the cross-examination he proved some omission as brought
in the cross-examination of P.W.1 to the affect that when P.W.1 hearing

alarm came out saw the accused to flee away.

14. During hearing learned P.P. has submitted that except some
minor discrepancies here and there is no contradiction or any material
omission to shake out the corroborative evidence of all the material
witnesses. Further submission is that the presence of the accused at the
material time near the P.O. is also an admitted fact and the defence
suggestion to the affect that the victim had a relation with one Kalam, in
the absence of any materials can be treated as mere hypothetical
suggestion. It is also submitted that the defence plea as taken rather
fortifies the prosecution case and there is no reason to disbelieve the
natural and corroborative evidence of the material witnesses. Learned
defence counsel argued that P.W.1 did not disclose about the commission
of rape and the omission as confirmed in the cross-examination of I.O. to

the affect that she hearing alarm came out and saw the accused to flee
away shakes out her credibility. Further argument is that non seizure of
any wearing apparels of the victim under the facts and circumstances of
this case give rise to the doubt of genuineness of the prosecution allegation.
Argument is also that the age of the victim is not proved by cogent

evidence and there is no reason to disbelieve the defence plea.

15. While perusing the evidence on the record it is found that
house of the sister of the accused is adjacent to the house of the
complainant. Accused admitted that on that night he stayed in the house of
his sister. Accused in his statement defence admitted his presence.
According to him at the time of the alleged incident he found the victim
near their (accused) toilet and seeing the same he wanted to know the
reason of her standing near the toilet at night. He then threatened her, and
she out of fear rushed towards her house and on the way fell down and
raised hue and cry and told her mother that when she went to latrine the
accused caught hold her. Hearing the same he raised protest. Her mother
abused him. On return of the complainant he told the above incident but
they did not pay any hid to the same and falsely implicated. The above
disclosure made in the 313 Cr.P.C. statement corroborates the evidence of
P.W.1,2 and 3 about the raising of alarm, coming of the mother of the
victim, abusing the accused by the mother of the victim, coming of the
father of the victim, and also altercation in between the accused and father
of the victim at the material time. The accused did not utter anything with
regard to the plea of relation between the victim and the said Kalam,
cousin of the accused. The accused merely stated that he was falsely
implicated. The accused also wanted to give explanation about the injury
of the victim by fall on the ground. During cross-examination of the victim

it has been categorically stated that she had no love affairs with Kalam. It
is seen that the victim and her parents were cross-examined at length but
the defence has failed to shake out their corroborative evidence. Other
witnesses namely, P.W.5 and 6 also corroborated the evidence of material
witnesses as reported witnesses about the alleged offence but also
elucidated the subsequent circumstances. According to them they just after
the incident arrived at the house of the victim and were reported about the
alleged use of force etc. It is seen that the accused admitted the injury
caused on the right knee of the victim. According to the accused it was
caused due to fall being threatened by him. Although the defence took the
plea of adducing false evidence by P.W.5 and P.W.6 but failed to bring
anything in the cross-examination to shake out their credibility. The
medical evidence about the age of the victim corroborate the evidence of
material witnesses 1.e. the victim and her parents. The Admit Card, M.Ext-
1 shows that the name of the victim as a student of class-ix was registered
in the year 2014. There is nothing in the record to show that the victim had
to be detained in any class. Therefore, the evidence to the affect that the
victim was aged about 16 years at the material time is cogently established
and also proved by medical evidence. Evidence is found to be very natural
and nothing is found for not putting explicit reliance the evidence of the
victim corroborated by other witnesses especially while it is evident that
relation between both the parties prior to the alleged incident was good. It
is not believable that a girl of 16 years could have taken risk to jeopardize
her character and reputation of his family by adducing false evidence.
Similarly, no reason is also found to disbelieve the testimony of her
parents P.W.1 and P.W.2. It is a fact that the victim did not disclose in her
evidence that the accused had inter course with her but she stated that the
accused removing her clothes and also his clothes ride on her and had sex.

P.W.1 deposed that the accused outraged the modesty of the victim.
10

According to the father of the victim the accused made her fell on the
ground. It is very natural that no girl would generally dare to disclose to
her parents in detail about the entire incident. So also, generally no minor
girl, in presence of male advocates reluctant to elucidate the actual
offensive act in detail. In 164 Cr.P.C. statement before lady Magistrate she
clearly stated that the accused committed sexualintercourse with her which
continued for about five minutes. In the history as recorded by Lady
Doctor shows that the accused performed sexual intercourse with the
victim. On the point of having sex as adduced by the victim there is no
cross-examination except denial suggestion. It is a fact that slightest
penetration is enough under the law to constitute the offence of penetrative

sexual assault.

16. In view of the above discussions and consideration of entire
evidence on record it is held that prosecution case is proved beyond all
reasonable doubt U/S 4 of POCSO Act. Accused is thus held to be guilty

of the offence. He is thus convicted accordingly.

17. Heard the accused on the question of sentence. His statement
are recorded in separate sheets tagged with the case record. He has
submitted for leniency.

18. Having consideration of the above and due regard to all other
aspects, the accused is convicted and sentenced U/S 4 of the POCSO Act
to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment (R.I.) for a period of seven years. And
also a fine of Rs. 2000/- and in default shall further undergo for a period of

one month.

19. As regards victim compensation it is evident that the victim
11

belongs to a poor family of tea garden community and the victim while
studying in Class —X had to discontinue her study out of fear of the
accused and slur on her character. The victim also sustained injury which
made her difficult in the movement and which continued for about one

month.

20. Consideration of the above and all other aspects it is
recommended that an amount of Rs. 100000/- may be paid as interim
compensation to be paid to the victim or to the father of the victim. Further
in case of claim of any further compensation the matter may be decided by
DLSA after further due enquiry. Secretary DLSA will take appropriate step
for payment of the interim compensation etc. Copy of the Judgment along
with the deposition of P.W.1,2,3 be forwarded to Secretary DLSA for
taking appropriate step for payment of compensation. Copy of the
Judgment also be forwarded to the Secretary, Govt of Assam, Political
Deptt. for taking necessary step for payment of compensation.
Free copy of the Judgment be furnished to the accused as per section 363
of Cr.P.C. and a copy also be forwarded to the District Magistrate as per
section 365 of Cr.P.C.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court under
my signature and seal of this court on this 6" day of January, 2017.

Dictated & Corrected by me

(Shri K. Choudhury), (Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge. Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
Transcribed by P.Dey,

Stenographer -I
12

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR.
SPL POCSO Case No. 15 of 2016.
APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
P.W. 1— Smti Jogeswari Mohali.
P.W. 2— Sri Monilal Mohali.
P.W. 3 — Smti Hiramoni Mohali.
P.W. 4 — Dr. Orina Raha.
P.W. 5— Sri Monoj Lohar.
P.W.6— _ Sri Noresh Mala.
P.W.7— Sri Suravath Singh.

 

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL.

(D) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.l1 — EFLR.

Ext.1(1)— Signature of P.W.2

Ext. 1(2) — Signature of O/C Kachudram P.S..
Ext.2 — Medical Report

Ext. 2(1)-Signature of victim(P.W.2)

Ext-2(3) & 2(5)— Signature of Dr. Orina Raha.
Ext-2(4) — Signature of Dr. Netromoni Kakoti.
Ext-2(6) — Copy of report of radiologist Dr. B. Pegu.
Ext.3— Statement of P.W.2

Ext. 3(1)to 3(2) —Signature of P.W.2

Ext. 4 — Police requisition.

Ext.4(1) &(2)-Signature of PW.4,
13

Ext-4(3) | — Requisition for Medical examination.

Ext.5  — Sketch map.
Ext-5(1) — Signature of P.W.7.
Ext. 6 — Charge sheet

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: -
M. Ext. 1 — Registration card of SEBA.(proved in

original)

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - NIL.

(Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
14

Spl. POCSO Case No. 15/16

06-01-17:
Accused is produced from judicial custody. Judgment is
prepared in separate sheets tagged with the case record.

It is held that prosecution case is proved beyond all reasonable
doubt U/S 4 of the POCSO Act. Accused is thus held to be guilty of the
offence. He is thus convicted accordingly.

Heard the accused on the question of sentence. His statement
are recorded in separate sheets tagged with the case record. He has thus
prayed for leniency.

Having consideration of the above and due regard to all other
aspects, the accused is convicted and sentenced U/S 4 of the POCSO Act
to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment (R.I.) for a period of seven years and
also a fine of Rs. 2000/- and in default shall further undergo for a period of
one month.

As regards victim compensation it is evident that the victim
belongs to a poor family of tea garden community and the victim while
studying in Class -X had to discontinue her study out of fear of the
accused and slur on her character. The victim also sustained injury which
made her difficult in the movement and which continued for about one
month.

Consideration of the above and all other aspects it is
recommended that an amount of Rs. 100000/- may be paid as interim
compensation to be paid to the victim or to the father of the victim. Further
in case of claim of any further compensation the matter may be decided by

DLSA after further due enquiry. Secretary DLSA will take appropriate step
15

for payment of the interim compensation etc. Copy of the Judgment along
with the deposition of P.W.1,2,3 be forwarded to Secretary DLSA for
taking appropriate step for payment of compensation. Copy of the
Judgment also be forwarded to the Secretary, Govt of Assam, Political
Deptt. for taking necessary step for payment of compensation

Free copy of the Judgment be furnished to the accused as per
section 363 of Cr.P.C. and a copy also be forwarded to the District
Magistrate as per section 365 of Cr.P.C.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court under

my signature and seal of this court on this 6" day of January 2017.
Dictated & Corrected by me
(Shri K. Choudhury), (Shri K. Choudhuy),

Special Judge. Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
