IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, AJS
Special Judge,

Bilasipara

Special (POCSO) Case No- 10 of 2017
u/s 448/376(1)/313/323/506 Indian Penal Code

& u/s 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act

State of Assam

-Vs-
Motin Ali
asec accused person

Date of framing charge - 04-08-2017
Date of recording evidence _ :- 16-05-2018

01-06-2018

21-07-2018

29-09-2018

04-12-2018

13-03-2019
Date of Argument i 24-05-2019

06-06-2019
Date of Judgment 17-06-2019
Advocates Appeared:
For the State of Assam :- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam

For the defence :- Mr. R. Dasgupta,

Ld. Advocate for the accused.

Contd. to page no.-2
[2]
JUDGMENT

1. This case is u/s 448/376(1)/313/323/506 Indian Penal Code, I.P.C in
short and u/s 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, in short
POCSO Act. So, the name of the victim is not mentioned here and she is
referred to, hereinafter, as ‘x’.
2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Haidar Ali, the informant lodged
an ejahar with the Bilasipara police station on 20-03-2017 informing that ‘x’
is the daughter of the informant. She is minor girl aged about 13 years old
and she is also deaf and dumb. The accused Motin Ali entered into the
informant’s house and had sexual intercourse with ‘x’. As a result of such
sexual intercourse, ‘x’ became pregnant. The accused Motin Ali administered
medicine on ‘x’ to cause damage of the pregnancy. The accused Motin Ali
threatened her not to divulge the occurrence to none. ‘x’ set fire on herself
for the act of the accused Motin Ali.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused Motin Ali.
3. The Bilasipara police station received the ejahar and registered as
Bilasipara police station case no. 257/2017 u/s 447/448/313/326 I.P.C r/w
section 4 of POCSO Act. The case was investigated and having found prima
facie u/s 447/448/313/326/506 I.P.C and section 4 of POCSO Act against the
accused Motin Ali, prepared the chargesheet and laid the same before the
court for trial.
4. The accused Motin Ali, hereinafter called the accused, appeared in
this case and he was furnished copy. Charge was framed u/s
448/376(1)/313/323/506 I.P.C and section 4 of POCSO Act. The charge was
read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined 10 (ten) witnesses, namely-

1. Haidar Ali PW-1
2. Kolsom Bibi PW-2
3. ‘x’ the victim PW-3
4. Nabab Ali PW-4
5. Ahmed Ali P.W-5

Contd. to page no.-3
[3]

6. Dr. Md. Laskar Ali P.W-6
7. Mainul Hoque P.W-7
8. Ghutu Seikh P.W-8
9. Indreswar Pathak P.W-9

10. Dr. Muskura Ahmed P.W-10

6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was

recorded where he denied all allegations leveled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution witnesses and also declined to adduce evidence

in defence.
7. Heard argument for both sides.
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

Vi.

Whether accused three months back from the date of lodging
ejahar on 20-03-2017 at village Chatapara under Bilasipara police
station criminally trespassed into the house of informant to commit
rape on ‘x’?

Whether accused three months back from the date of lodging
ejahar on 20-03-2017 at village Chatapara under Bilasipara police
station committed rape on ‘x’ who is deaf and dumb girl?

Whether accused three months back from the date of lodging
ejahar on 20-03-2017 at village Chatapara under Bilasipara police
station committed penetrative sexual assault on ‘x’?

Whether accused after two months of committing rape on ‘x’ at
village Chatapara under Bilasipara police station voluntarily caused
simple hurt to ‘x’?

Whether accused after two months of committing rape on ‘x’ at
village Chatapara under Bilasipara police station voluntarily caused
‘x’ then being with child to miscarry without her consent, such
miscarriage not being caused by accused in good faith for the
purpose of saving the life of the ‘x’?

Whether accused after two months of committing rape on ‘x’ at
village Chatapara under Bilasipara police station threatened ‘x’ and

informant to kill them?

Contd. to page no.-4
[4]

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF
9. In this prosecution case P.W-1 Haidar Ali is the informant, P.W-2
Kolsom Bibi is the wife of the informant, P.W-3 ‘x’ is the alleged victim, P.W-
4 Nabab Ali, P.W-5 Ahmed Ali, P.W-7 Mainul Hoque, P.W-8 Ghutu Seikh are
independent witnesses. P.W-6 Dr. Laskar Ali and P.W-10 Dr. Muskura Ahmed
are Medical & Health Officers and P.W-9 Indreswar Pathak is the
investigating officer.
10. In this case P.W-1 Haidar Ali is the informant and P.W-3 ‘x’ is the
alleged victim. So both are the prime witnesses in this case. Now, let us see
the evidence of this two witnesses.
11. P.W-1 Haidar Ali has stated in his evidence that he is the informant in
this case. ‘x’ is his minor daughter and she is deaf and dumb. ‘x’ was the
student of Kalipara Janapriya L.P. School. On the day of occurrence, he was
not at his house. When he came to his house, his daughter ‘x’ showed him
by signal that accused committed rape on her. Accordingly, he lodged the
ejahar against the accused. ‘x’ was examined by Medical & Health Officer.

In his cross P.W-1 has stated that he was working in Guwahati as

rickshaw puller. He came home after five days from the day of occurrence
and heard about the occurrence. Moinul, Ahad Ali, Bera Kata are his close
neighbour. But he did not disclose the matter to them.
12. P.W-3 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that the accused Motin Ali
embraced her and committed rape on her. He made her nude. After
committing rape, the accused left their house. Her statement was recorded,
Ext-1 is the said statement.

In her cross P.W-3 has denied that the accused did not perform the
ill act on her. She made statement before the Magistrate as it was tutored.
13. Thus, minute scrutiny of evidence of Haidar Ali and P.W-3 ‘x’ shows
that the occurrence took place when P.W-1 Haidar Ali was in Guwahati. He
came to his house after seven days of the occurrence. When he returned to
house, he got to know form his daughter that she was committed rape by
the accused.

But in the ejahar Ext-1, P.W-1 Haidar Ali scribed that as a
consequence of sexual act on ‘x’ by accused, she became pregnant. The
accused administered medicine on her for destruction of her pregnancy.

So, there found variation between the content of the ejahar and the

Contd. to page no.-5
[5]

evidence of P.W-1. P.W-1 in Ext-1 ejahar has stated that ‘x’ became
pregnant as a result of sexual act on her, but in his evidence P.W-1 has
stated that after seven days from the day of occurrence he came to his
house, got to know about the occurrence and he lodged the ejahar. So,
there is distinct gulf between the content of the ejahar and the evidence
adduced by P.W-1 in the court.

Secondly, P.W-1 has stated nowhere in his evidence that ‘x’ became
pregnant and she was administered medicine by the accused.

Thirdly, P.W-1 Haidar Ali has stated in the ejahar that he tried to
solve the matter in the village, but fails. But in his evidence P.W-1 has stated
that he did not discuss the matter with Moinul, Ahad Ali, Bera Kata who are
his neighbour.

So, there is vital contradiction between the evidence of P.W-1 and his
previous statement in the ejahar. The evidence of P.W-1 is found not free
from the doubt. His evidence is imbibed with many contradictions.

14. The evidence of P.W-3 ‘x’ shows that the evidence of P.W-3 ‘x’ was
recorded with the help of one Anjali Das, a teacher of deaf and dumb school.

P.W-3 ‘x’ has stated that she was committed ill deed by the accused.
She has also stated that her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C was tutored.
P.W-3 ‘x’ has stated in her written evidence that the accused Motin Ali has
outraged her modesty.

There is no evidence that she became pregnant or she was
administered medicine by the accused.

15. If the evidence of P.W-3 ‘x’ is accepted to be true, let us see the
evidence of P.W-10 Dr. Muskura Ahmed, the Medical & Health Officer.

P.W-10 Dr. Muskura Ahmed has stated in her evidence that she had
medically examined ‘x’ and found as follows-

The child is unable to talk and dumb; examination of injuries- whole
left leg upto below and left elbow is burnt with an old scar and slub. So,
refer to surgery; local examination of genital parts-normal; external
genitalia- normal; Hymen- normal; vagina & cervix-normal. According to her
clinical opinion patient was not consistent with recent sexual

intercourse/assault. Ext-4 is the medical report and Ext-4(1) is her signature.

Contd. to page no.-6
[6]

P.W-10 in her opinion stated she found that the patient was not
consistent with sexual intercourse or assault. So, the evidence of P.W-10
shows that she found no sign of rape on ‘x’.

Secondly, if there was sexual intercourse on ‘x’, the hymen of P.W-3
‘x’ would have torn. But medical report Ext-4 shows that hymen of P.W-3
was normal.

Thus, the evidence of P.W-10 Dr. Muskura Ahmed shows that ‘x’ is
not supported by P.W-10 that there was rape on P.W-3 ‘x’.

16. Now let us see the evidence of P.W-2 Kolsom Bibi, the mother of the
alleged victim.

P.W-2 Kolsom Bibi has stated in his evidence that ‘x’ is her daughter.
The occurrence took place one year ago (from the date of adducing evidence
on 16-05-2018). Her husband was not at their house and she herself went to
the house of her sister. When she returned to her house, ‘x’ showed her by
Signal that the accused committed rape on her. In connection with the
occurrence her husband lodged the ejahar against the accused.

In her cross P.W-2 has stated that there was village meeting, but the
matter was not solved.

17. The evidence of P.W-2 shows that there was a village meeting. The
accused was present in the meeting.

Let us see the evidence of other witness is to support the evidence of
P.W-2.

P.W-4 Nabab Ali has stated in his evidence that there was altercation
between the informant and the accused and a village meeting held in
connection with it. He was present in the meeting. The meeting was held in
his court yard.

P.W-5 Ahmed Ali has stated in his evidence that there was a meeting
in the court yard of Nabab Ali. There was discussion regarding personal
dispute.

P.W-6 Moinul Hoque has stated in his evidence that there was
meeting in the hosue of Nabab Ali. But he did not know the subject matter
of the discussion.

P.W-8 Ghutu Seikh has stated in his evidence that there was meeting
in the house of Nabab Ali. But he did not know the subject matter of the

meeting.

Contd. to page no.-7
[7]

18. Thus, the evidence of P.W-4, P.W-5, P.W-6 and P.W-8 shows that
they are neighbour to P.W-2 Kolsom Bibi. All the said witnesses have
categorically stated in their respective evidence that there was a village
meeting in the court yard of Nabab Ali. But P.W-4 Nabab Ali and the other
witnesses have denied that the meeting was held to discuss for committing
rape on ‘x’. Rather they have stated that the meeting was held for personal
dispute. The witnesses namely P.W-4, P.W-5, P.W-6 and P.W-8 are
neighbour to P.W-2. If the occurrence of rape would have happened, they
would have aware of it. At least they would have heard of it. But the said
witnesses have categorically denied to have discussion in the meeting in the
subject matter of rape.

Thus, the evidence of P.W-2 is not supported by the witnesses
namely P.W-4, P.W-5, P.W-6 and P.W-8.
19. The evidence of P.W-9 Indreswar Pathak is mere official. P.W-9
Indreswar Pathak has stated in his cross that the ejahar was lodged after
three months from the date of occurrence. According to P.W-1 Haidar Ali, he
lodged the ejahar after seven days from the date of occurrence. But
according to P.W-9 it was lodged after 3(three) months. The content of the
ejahar Ext-1 also shows that the ejahar was lodged after three months.
There was no proper explanation why it took time to lodge the ejahar. It is
the principle of law that the ejahar must be lodged promptly. If there is any
inevitable cause, the same must be duly explained. In this instant case, the
delay is not explained. It may also affect the prosecution case.
20. Considering all aspects, it leads to conclusion that the prosecution
evidence is not sufficient and reliable to prove the offences as alleged
against the accused. The prosecution evidence is found dearth of merit.
21. The prosecution, thereby, failed to prove its case u/s
448/376(1)/313/323/506 I.P.C and section 4 POCSO Act against the accused
beyond all reasonable doubt.
22. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 448/376(l)/313/323/506 I.P.C and
section 4 POCSO Act.
23. Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

The bail bond of accused stands cancelled and bailor is discharged

from liabilities.

Contd. to page no.-8
[8]

The case is disposed of.
Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 17" day of June
2019 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)
Special Judge, Bilasipara
Transcribed & typed by,

S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

PW-1 Haidar Ali

PW-2 Kolsom Bibi

PW-3 ‘x’/ the victim

PW-4 Nabab Ali

P.W-5 Ahmed Ali

P.W-6 Dr. Md. Laskar Ali
P.W-7 Mainul Hoque

P.W-8 Ghutu Seikh

P.W-9 S.I Indreswar Pathak
P.W-10 Dr. Muskura Ahmed

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Ejahar,
Ext-2 Statement of ‘x’/the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-3 Radiological report,

Ext-4 Medical Examination report,

Contd. to page no.-9
Ext-4 Sketch Map,
Ext-5 Charge Sheet.

DEFENCE WITNESS
DEFENCE EXHIBITS
COURT WITNESS

COURT EXHIBITS

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

[9]

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
