IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present : Sri Madhurjya Narayan, AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018
(G.R. Case No. 80 of 2018)
Garamur P.S. Case No. 27 of 2018

State of Assam

-Versus-

Sri Robin Mudoi @ Babul Mudoi,

Son of Late Dadhi Mudoi,

Resident of Krishna Nagar, Near Garamur College,

P.S. Garamur,

District-Majuli. ... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri Deep Ranjan Chetia & Sri N.G. Mudoi,
Learned Advocates, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 354 [A] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 8 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM

SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Date of Charge : 06-09-2018
Date of prosecution evidence : 28-09-2018; 01-11-2018; 02-11-2018;

06-12-2018 & 15-05-2019

 

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 27-06-2019
Date of Argument : 31-07-2019
Date of Judgment : 14-08-2019

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, as stated in the ejahar dated
13/07/2018, lodged by the victim girl, [hereinafter referred as (X) in order to
screen her identity], is that on 12/07/2018, around 12 noon, she went for her
tuition class at her school, held during summer vacation. After the tuition class,
accused Sri Robin Mudoi @ Babul Mudoi, who was the Headmaster of her school,
forced her and her friend Mouchumi Bora to visit his residence, and accordingly
they went to his house in his bike. There, the accused person confined her friend
in one room and in another room, he gagged the mouth of the victim, forcefully
removed her clothes and attempted to commit rape on her. Somehow, victim [X]

managed to rescue herself and fled away from the house of the accused person.

2). On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-in-charge, Garamur
P.S., the same was registered as Garamur P.S. Case No. 27/2018 under Section
354 [A] of IPC. The Officer-in-charge, Garamur P.S. S.I. Sri Ranjan Doley himself

took up investigation of the case.

2 (1) During the course of investigation, the I.0. visited the place of
occurrence, prepared Sketch Map of the same, recorded statements of the
witnesses and forwarded the accused Sri Robin Mudoi @ Babul Mudoi after
arresting him. He also got the statements of the victim recorded in the Court
under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. Then on completion of investigation, the I.O. laid
charge-sheet against accused Sri Robin Mudoi @ Babul Mudoi to stand trial in the
Court under Section 354 (A) of IPC read with Section 8 of The Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

3). On production of the accused person before this Court, my learned
predecessor-in-court, after furnishing the copies of relevant documents and upon
hearing the learned counsel for both sides on the point of consideration of
charge and perusing the relevant materials, finding a prima-facie case under
Section 354 [A] of IPC read with Section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012, framed formal

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018
charge there under against the accused person. Particulars of accusations of
above charge on being read over and explained to the accused, he pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). To bring home the charge, the prosecution examined as many as 09
[nine] witnesses including the victim, her friend Miss Mouchumi Bora and her
father. Further, the prosecution side exhibited the statement of the victim [X]
recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. as Exhibit-2, statement of Miss Mouchumi
Bora recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. as Exhibit-3, the ejahar as Exhibit-1

and the Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index as Exhibit-4.

5). On closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of the above
named accused was recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. in respect of the
incriminating circumstances that surfaced against him in the evidence on record.

No defence evidence was led in the instant case.

6). I have heard arguments advanced by the learned counsel for both
sides. I have also scrutinized the entire evidence of witnesses as well as all

relevant materials including the exhibits on record.

6 (i). Learned Special P.P. Sri Muhidhar Dutta submitted that there are
sufficient materials on record to prove the guilt of the accused person beyond
reasonable doubt and as such, he be dealt with. On the other hand, learned
Defence Counsel Sri Deep Ranjan Chetia, argued that prosecution evidence lacks

credibility and reliability. And as such, the accused be acquitted of the charge.

7). POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:-

Whether on 12/07/2018, around 12 noon, at Krishna
Nagar, under Garamur P.S., the above named accused person:
[i] at his house, used criminal force upon the victim ‘xX’, with
intent/knowledge to outrage her modesty and thereby committed an
offence punishable under Section 354 [A] of IPC?

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018
[ii] committed sexual assault upon the victim ‘X’, who was aged above
sixteen years and below eighteen years and thereby committed an
offence punishable under Section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

8). PW-1/victim ‘X’ deposed that the accused person was the
Headmaster of her school and on the day of the incident, around 9 a.m., she
went to her school for attending tuition class. That she found that the accused
person wanted to take one of her friends Miss Mouchumi Bora to his house, to
show the same. That he also asked her to visit his house. At first, she was not
willing to go and only on being insisted by him, she went to the house of the
accused person with her friend Mouchumi Bora. That at his house, the accused
person told that his wife is not present and he brought them to pamper. That she
then got scared. That the accused person sent Mouchumi Bora to prepare tea for
them and took her to other room of the house and kissed her on her cheek. That
the accused person asked her to sit on his lap and when she refused to do so, he
caught her hand and dragged her to make her sit on his lap. That he then tried
to remove her clothes. That PW-1 somehow freed herself from the clutches of
the accused person and went out of his house, without informing her friend
Mouchumi Bora. That she reached Garamur Tin-Ali but did not board any vehicle
as she was scared. That she met her uncle Sri Gobinda Doley, who took her to

her house.

8 (i). During cross-examination, PW-1 stated that they reached the
house of the accused person around twelve noon and she reported the incident
to her mother first. That she was not allowed to make hue & cry by the accused
person at the time of the incident and she came out of his house by opening the
door. That on the day of the incident, only she and Mouchumi Bora were present
at the school. That she told the accused person that she would take tuition at the
school only. That her family members and villagers told her to lodge a case

against the accused person.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018
9). From the evidence of PW-1/victim, it is seen that at the time of the
incident, Miss Mouchumi Bora was present with her and on that day, she went to
the house of the accused person only on his insistence. Moreover, PW-1/victim,
during cross-examination, stated that she told the accused person that she would
take tuition at the school only. Aparently, Miss Mouchumi Bora is a vital witness
of this case. AS PW-3 Miss Mouchumi Bora, deposed that she and the
victim/PW-1 went to the house of the accused person, to take tuition class and
they told the accused person that they would go to his house for tuition. This
version of PW-3, as reveals, is contradictory to what has been deposed by the
victim as PW-1.

10). PW-3 further deposed that after reaching the house of the accused
person, he asked her to prepare tea and so she went to prepare tea. That when
she brought tea, she did not find the victim/PW-1 at the house and at that time,
the accused person went to take bath. That on being asked, the accused could
not say how the victim/X went out and then she also left the house of the

accused person.

10 (i). During cross-examination, PW-3 stated that she had visited the house
of the accused person earlier. Under the circumstances, the deposition of PW-
1/victim that the accused wanted to take her friend Mouchumi Bora to his house,
in order to show his house, is contradictory. PW-3, during her cross-examination,
further stated that she cannot say whether the victim visited the house of the
accused person prior to the incident. That the accused person did not misbehave
her earlier and on the date of the incident, other students were present at the
school. PW-1/victim, however, deposed that on the date of the incident, only she

and her friend Mouchumi Bora were present at the school.

11). PW-3/Miss Mouchumi Bora further during her cross-examination stated
that while preparing tea, she did not hear any hue & cry of the victim and she
came to know about the incident, only on the next day. Now, the victim in her

ejahar/Exhibit-1 stated that before she could shriek, accused person gagged her

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018
mouth. However, from the description of the incident by the victim as PW-1 that
the accused asked her to make her sit on his lap and on her refusal, he caught
her hand and dragged her to sit on his lap and then tried to remove her clothes,
it seems very unlikely that she had been prevented from shouting or her mouth
had been gagged. Moreover, as per the deposition of both the victim/PW-1 and
PW-3/Miss Mouchumi Bora, latter was in the kitchen of the accused person at the
time of the alleged incident. PW-3, during cross-examination, stated that the
kitchen was located near the drawing room of the house of the accused person.
PW-5/Smt. Dipali Bhuyan deposed during cross-examination that the drawing

room and the kitchen room are not separated by any wall.

12). PW-1/victim also deposed that on the date of the incident, before
going to the house of the accused person, she was given a dress from the house
of Miss Mouchumi Bora/PW-3. Aforesaid Mouchumi Bora/PW-3 also deposed that
before going to the house of the accused person, they went to her house as
victim ‘X’ asked her for some clothes and accordingly, she gave her clothes and
the victim ‘X’ then changed her clothes and thereafter they went to the house of

the accused person.

13). PW-4/Smt. Konmai Borah is the mother of Miss Mouchumi
Bora/PW-3. She deposed that at the relevant time, victim/PW-1 came to her
house with her daughter/PW-3 and changed her clothes and after that, she went
to the house of the accused person with her daughter/PW-3. That the victim
again came back to her house with one person, around 3 p.m., and after
changing her clothes, wore her own clothes and left for her house without saying
anything to her. That she came back within one hour of going to the house of
the accused person. That on being asked, the victim did not tell why she came
without her daughter/PW-3.

13 (i). During cross-examination PW-4 stated that she does not have any

personal knowledge of the incident.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018
14). PW-2/Sri Nobojit Doley is the father of the victim/PW-1. He
deposed that on the day of the incident, he had told his daughter to go to the
school for taking her tuition class but she was not willing to go. That his
daughter/PW-1 returned back home after 3 p.m. with his nephew Sri Biren Kuli
and she was shivering out of fear. That he made query, but she/PW-1 did not tell
him anything. That his wife told him that the victim had told her that the accused
person tried to rape her. That in the meantime, people from their village as
representatives of Missing Organization, told him that he should lodge a case and

on the next day, his daughter/PW-1 lodged the case before the police.

14 (i). During cross-examination, PW- stated that there were 6-7 persons
from the Missing Organization, who accompanied them to the police station. That
they directed him to lodge the case before the police after the incident. That they
had a meeting before they went to the police station for lodging the ejahar. PW-
2 further during cross-examination stated that the victim/PW-1 did not tell him
anything about the incident and he does not have any personal knowledge about

the incident.

15). PW-5/Smt. Dipali Bhuyan is a clerk of the school, of which the
victim/PW-1 is a student. She deposed that she came to know about the incident
from Miss Mouchumi Bora/PW-3. However, the latter as PW-3, did not depose
that she reported any incident to Smt. Dipali Bhuyan. Evidence of PW-5 on the
incident is accordingly hearsay and inadmissible. PW-5, during her cross-
examination, stated that she was also a student of the school where she has
been working presently and the accused used to teach her during her school
days. That as per her knowledge, accused is a good person and the offence
alleged against him is false. PW-5 during cross-examination further stated that
on the date of the incident, accused person called her for her official work and

when she went there, both the students were present.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018
16). PW-6/Sri Bijay Dutta, as deposed by him, was a tenant of the
accused person at the time of the incident. Said witness deposed that he heard

about the incident only on the next day as he was on duty at the relevant time.

17). PW-7/Sri Krishna Kallul Mudoi is the son of the accused person.
He deposed that on the date of the incident, he reached his house around 3 p.m.

and he did not notice any abnormality at his house.

17 (i). During cross-examination, PW-7 stated that though he reached his

house at 3 p.m. he told his father that he would come at 2 p.m.

18). PW-8/Sri Bikash Borah is the Assistant Teacher of Luit High
School. He deposed that on the day of the incident, he was at his school and on
that day, he also went to the house of the accused person. That on the next day,
he could come to know that the accused person had done some indecent

behaviour with the victim/PW-1 who is a student of their school.

18 (i). During cross-examination, PW-8 stated that on the date of the
incident, he was called by the accused person to his house without giving any
specific time to visit the same. That he did not hear anything against the accused

person and the latter takes tuition class at his residence.

19). PW-9/Sri Ranjan Doley is the I.0. and as deposed by him, prior to
the receipt of the ejahar/Exhibit-1, telephonic information had been received at
the police station regarding the incident, which was entered in the General Diary
Register vide G.D. Entry No. 220 dated 13/07/2018. As per the deposition of
I.0./PW-9, after entering the G.D. Entry, he visited the place of occurrence and
examined some witnesses in connection with the case, drew Sketch Map of the
place of occurrence with index. That thereafter, the victim/PW-1 lodged the
ejahar/Exhibit-1. So, what transpires is that on the basis of the G.D. Entry No.
220 dated 13/07/2018, investigation already commenced. As such, the G.D.
Entry No. 220 dated 13/07/2018 is the information first in point of time and so,

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018
the ejahar/Exhibit-1 is hit by Section 162 of Cr.P.C. However, prosecution did not
bring on record the extract copy of the said G.D. Entry nor took any steps to call

for the relevant G.D. Entry Register.

19 (i). The I.0./PW-9 during cross-examination stated that the place of
occurrence is the house of the accused person. Exhibit-4 is the Sketch Map of the
place of occurrence with index and the same reveals that there are five rooms at
the house of the accused person, but the prosecution failed to bring on record as

to in which room the alleged incident had taken place.

20). On behalf of the accused, it has been submitted that he is a
respectable person of the locality and involved in various social organizations and
that he has been falsely implicated in the case. PW-5/Smt. Dipali Bhuyan during
cross-examination stated that as per her knowledge, accused is a good person
and the offence alleged against him is false. It has been further submitted on
behalf of the accused person that the case had been lodged out of grudge and in
conspiracy with the representatives of the Missing Organizations. PW-1/victim
during cross-examination stated that the accused person used to teach Science
and sometimes he used to scold and assault them for not doing well in their
studies, but she did not object for the sake of her study. PW-3/Miss Mouchumi
Bora during cross-examination stated that the victim secured less marks than her
in the examination. The victim as PW-1 during cross-examination stated that the
representatives of TMPK, MMK met them before lodging the ejahar/Exhibit-1, and
they also told her to lodge the case. PW-2/Sri Nobojit Doley, father of the
victim/PW-1, also deposed that the representatives of their Missing

Organizations, told him that he should lodge a case after the incident.

21). Further the victim as PW-1 deposed that on the day of the incident,
on her way back from the house of the accused person, she met her uncle Sri
Gobinda Doley, who took her to her house. But her father PW-2/Sri Nobojit
Doley, deposed that on the date of the incident, his daughter/PW-1 returned

home after 3 p.m. with his nephew Sri Biren Kuli. Prosecution, however, failed to

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018
10

examine either Sri Gobinda Doley or Sri Biren Kuli, who would have been vital
witness of the case, nor any explanation had been given for their failure to

examine them.

22). From the discussions so made herein before, it is revealed that
besides the victim/PW-1, her friend Miss Mouchumi Bora/PW-3 was present at
the house of the accused person at the time of the incident. However, variations
and contradictions in the evidence of the victim/PW-1 and PW-3, as already
discussed above, creates a doubt in the prosecution case. Failure on the part of
the prosecution to examine vital witnesses, namely, Sri Gobinda Doley and Sri
Biren Kuli is a serious loophole on the part of the prosecution. Further,
prosecution either by way of the Sketch Map/Exhibit-4 or through the evidence of
the witnesses, failed to give a clear picture of the place of occurrence, which is
another loophole on their part. The evidence of PW-5/Smt. Dipali Bhuyan that on
the date of the incident, on being called by the accused person for some official
work, she visited his house and had seen both the students present there, also

creates a doubt in the prosecution case.

23). In the light of the discussions so made hereinbefore and taking the
evidence on record in its entirety, it is found that the prosecution failed to prove
its case against the accused person beyond reasonable doubt. Accordingly, he is

found not guilty of the charges so brought against him.

24). In the result, accused Sri Robin Mudoi @ Babul Mudoi is
acquitted of the charges under Section 354 [A] of IPC read with Section 8 of
POCSO Act, 2012, levelled against him and he is set at liberty forthwith.

25). Accused is on bail. The bail bond of accused is extended for another
06 [six] months from today as per provision of Section 437-A Cr.P.C.
26). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 14th day of
August 2019.

Special Judge, Jorhat

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018

10
11

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW-1 Victim girl-cum-informant of the case.
PW-2 Sri Nobojit Doley, father of the victim.
PW-3 Miss Mouchumi Bora, friend of the victim.
PW-4 Smt. Konmai Borah, mother of Miss Mouchumi
Borah/PW-3.
PW-5 Smt. Dipali Bhuyan, Clerk of Sri Luit High School.
PW-6 Sri Bijoy Dutta, private service.
PW-7 Sri Krishna Kallul Mudoi, son of the accused person.
PW-8 Sri Bikash Borah, Assistant Teacher of Luit High
School.
PW-9 Sri Ranjan Doley, I.0. of the case.

 

 

 

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Ejahar

Exhibit-2 Statement of the victim/PW-1 under Section 164
Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-3 Statement of PW-3/Miss Mouchumi Bora under
Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-4 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index

Exhibit-5 Charge-sheet

 

MATERIAL EXHIBIT:- NIL
DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE
Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

11

SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018
SPECIAL CASE NO. 68 OF 2018

12

12
