 

ecial (POCSO) (T 1 e No. 10/2017
U/S - 376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the
POCSO Act.

State

- Versus -

Tinkon Roy aaa Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person :- Sri A.H. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidence :- 25.10.2017 & 30.01.2018.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC ‘= 07.02.2018.

Date of Argument s* 07.02.2018.

Date of Judgment - 07.02.2018.
JUDGMENT

The prosecution case, in brief, is that on

29.05.2017 the complainant Monindra Roy lodged a complaint

with the Ld. CJM.,Hailakandi alleging that on 10.5.2017 saw the

symptom of pregnancy in the person of his daughter, the victim

and on being asked, the victim stated that the accused Tinkon
Roy giving assurance to marry her has been maintaining physical
Contd.....P/2.
Special (POCSO) (T 1) Case No. 10/2017

Ds

relationship with her and to that effect, bichar was held at the
intervention of the village elderly persons but the accused did
not agree to marry the victim. Subsequently, finding no other
alternative, the complainant approached to the Court of law.
z. On receipt of the complaint, the same was sent
to the O/C, Katlicherra Police Station, wherein a case vide
Katlicherra Police Station Case No. 76/2017 was registered under
Sec. 376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act and
accordingly, police started investigation of the case.

3. During investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, drew up rough sketch map of the place of
occurrence, recorded statements of witnesses including the
informant, got the victim medically examined and also got her
statement recorded by the Magistrate and after completion of
investigation having been found prima facie case laid the charge
sheet against the accused person Tinkon Roy under Sec. 376 of
IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

4, On appearance of accused person, copies of
relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were
furnished to him.

5. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the
Ld. Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on
record, having found sufficient grounds for presuming that the
accused person has committed the offence, the formal charges
have been framed against the accused person Tinkon Roy under
Sec. 376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. The
charges so framed were read over and explained to the accused
person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
Hence, the trial. Contd....P/3.
«Ks

6. In the instant case, the prosecution has
examined 3 Nos. of Pws including the victim and the informant
othe case. Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public Prosecutor and
the Ld. Defence Counsel, the prosecution evidence was closed.
The accused person is examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein
he has’ denied the allegations levelled against him by the
prosecution. The defence did not adduce any evidence.

qh Heard argument of both sides. Perused the
record.

I TERMI -
(i) Whether the accused Tinkon Roy before

10.05.2017 committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim

causing pregnancy to her, as alleged ?
(ii) Whether the accused Tinkon Roy during the

aforesaid period committed rape on the victim, as alleged ?

DIS ON D DECIS THEREOF :-

8. The victim, PW. 1, has deposed that the
incident took place around 6 months back. From the last Bengali
Calendar month “Agrahayan”, the accused was offering her to
marry him and out of belief, he committed sexual intercourse
with the victim. The PW. 1 has also deposed that the accused
maintained physical relation with her for 7 months but
subsequently the accused refused to marry her and while she
understood that she became pregnant, the victim disclosed the
same fact to her parents and thereafter, her father lodged the
case. During investigation, police got her medically examined
and she also made statement before Magistrate. The victim has

Contd.....P/4,
ial (P T.1) Cas . 10/2017
sits

exhibited her statement which was recorded by the Magistrate
under Sec. 164, CrPC under Ext. 1 and her signatures therein

under Exts. 1(1) and 1(2).
During cross examination, the victim has

deposed that her house and the house of accused person are at
Opposite direction to each other and the accused is a married
person having 2 children. It is also deposed by the victim that
she is unable to recall her date of birth and out of imagination,
she stated her age as 17 years in the evidence. Her age was
perhaps more than 18 years and she has goto no allegation
against the accused as she allowed the accused for sexual
intercourse on her own consent. At present, her marriage is
settled and on the next Saturday, Mangal Acharan will be held.

9. The complainant Monindra Roy (PW.2), the
father of the victim has deposed that the accused Tinkon Roy is
his neighbour. About 7/ 8 months back one day, he came to know
that her daughter, the victim was pregnant and on being asked,
his wife reported him that there was love affair between their
daughter and the accused and out of that, they developed
physical relationship. This witness has also deposed that after
lodging the case, the dispute was settled and as per instruction
of the village people, the accused person paid an amount of Rs.
50,000/- to him as compensation and with the said amount, he
has arranged the marriage of the victim and he does not want to
proceed with the case as it will hamper the future of his
daughter. On the next Saturday, the Mangal Acharan of the

victim will be held.
During cross examination, the PW. 2 has

deposed that at the time of incident, his daughter, the victim was

aged more than 18 years.
Contd....P/5.
i . 10/2017
~«5-

10. The PW. 3, Smti. Mira Roy, mother of the victim,
has deposed that about 8/ 9 years back one day at about 12
Noon, she was not present in the house and when she returned
to her house, her daughter, the victim reported her that the
accused had developed physical relation with her with the
promise of marriage and the victim became pregnant. Then, they
informed the matter to the village people, who settled the matter
amicably. As per instruction of the village people, the accused
persons has paid an amount of Rs. 50,000/- to the victim towards
compensation and with the said amount of money, the marriage
of the victim will be performed and on the next Saturday, the
Mangal Acharan will be held.

Ai. During cross examination, the PW. 3 has stated
that her marriage was held about 27/28 years back and after 5
years of her marriage, the victim was born.

id. At the very out set, let me decide the age of the
victim during the period of alleged sexual intercourse i.e. prior to
10.05.2017, on her by the accused.

Though the Medical Officer, who examined the
victim during investigation by the police, has not been examined
to prove the Medical Report of the victim but the same is
available in the record. On perusal of the Medical Report, it
appears that Dr. R. Begum, SDM. & HO., Civil Hospital,
Hailakandi examined the victim on 8.6.2017 at 1 PM but could
not determine the age of the victim due to non-availability of x-
ray report. However, the victim has deposed before this Court
that out of imagination she stated her as 17 years in her
evidence in chief but her age was perhaps more than 18 years.

The complainant, who is the father of the victim, has Clearly
Contd.....P/6.
“2

2

%

L(P 17
-§-

stated that at the time of incident, his daughter (the victim) was
aged more than 18 years. So also the mother of the victim (the
PW. 3) has clearly deposed before this Court on 30.01.2018
stating that her marriage was held about 27/ 28 years back and
after 5 years of her marriage, the victim was born. In absence of
medical evidence in respect of the age of the victim, keeping in
view the evidence of the parents of the victim i.e. Pws. 2 and 3
and the evidence of victim herself, the PW. 1, it is held that the
victim was major at the time of alleged sexual intercourse upon
the victim by the accused person.

13. Now, let me_ scrutinize the evidence of
prosecution witnesses to see as to what extent they have
implicated the accused person in the commission of the alleged
crime.

The informant (PW. 2), the father of the victim
in his evidence has vividly divulged that out of love, the accused
and the victim had developed physical relation between them
and at the intervention of the village elderly persons, the matter
has been settled and the accused paid an amount of Rs. 50,000/-
to him towards compensation and with the said amount, the
marriage of the victim has been arranged. The victim, PW. 1,
though in her evidence in chief has implicated the accused
person to some extent but in her cross examination,
corroborating her father she has also stated that she allowed the
accused for sexual intercourse on her own consent and presently,
her marriage is settled and on the next Saturday, her Mangal
Acharan will be held and she has got no objection, if the accused
person is acquitted. The PW. 3, mother of the victim has also

disclosed in her evidence the same facts as stated by Pws. 1
Contd.....P/7.
aes

and 2, complainant and the victim respectively to the effect that
there was love affair between her daughter and the accused and
out of that, they had developed physical relation and after filing
the case, the matter was amicably settled and as per instruction
of village people, the accused person paid an amount of Rs.
50,000/- to the victim as compensation and with the said
amount, the marriage of the victim has been arranged.

14, Under the above circumstances, it can be
safely held that the victim was a consenting party and on her
own volition, she allowed the accused in the commission of the
sexual intercourse. That apart, when the victim being consenting
party was major at the time of the sexual intercourse and as
such, | do not find any cogent reason to hold the accused person
guilty. Hence, according to me, it would be appropriate to acquit
the accused person Tinkon Roy, who has been charged under
Sec. 376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

15, It is worthwhile to mention here that though
from the evidence on record, it has come out to some extent that
the accused made false promise to marry the victim but the
accused has already compensated the victim for the misdeed he
committed by means of payment of an amount of Rs. 50,000/- to
the victim and with the said amount, the marriage of the victim
has been arranged.

16. In fine, the accused person Tinkon Roy is
acquitted of the charge levelled against him and heis_ set at
liberty forthwith.

a7, The bail bond of the accused person stands
discharged.

Contd.....P/8.
Special (POCSO) (T 1) Case No. 10/2017

«fia
18. Send a copy of this judgment to the District
Magistrate, Hailakandi.
19. The Special (POCSO) case is disposed of
accordingly.
20. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the

open Court under the seal of this Court and on my signature on

this 7th day of February, 2018. @
Le

5 J : .
SPECIAL Ta,

hae

SPECIAL robo

HATLAKAND!
i i Bah

Stenographer Grade I._

Contd.....P/9.
Specail (POCSO) Case No.10/2017

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, the victim.

PW. 2, Monindra Roy.

PW. 3, Mira Roy.
Documentary evidences :-
Ext. 1- Statement of the victim.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

SPECIAL JUDGE
HAILAKAND!
