IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE AT BARPETA.

Present :- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com., LL.B.,AJS,
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 16 OF 2019

(G.R.No.- 2804/2017)
Baghbar P.S. Case No. 273 of 2017

State of Assam

-versus-

Raiful Islam

S/O Late Dilchan Ali,

Resident of Mourigaon,

P.S. Baghbar,

District - Barpeta, ASSam  ——___ enue Accused.

APPEARANCES :

For the State : Mr. Lalit Ch. Nath, learned
Public Prosecutor, Barpeta.

For the Accused : Mr. Faizur Rahman, learned

Advocate, Barpeta.

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 363 IPC READ WITH
SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM
SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012.

 

Date of Charge : 09.05.2019
Date of Prosecution evidence : 10.07.2019
Date of Argument & Judgment : 10.07.2019

UDGM ENT
1). The prosecution case, in brief, is that Baghbar P.S. Case
No 273 of 2017 under section 4 of the Protection of Children From

Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was registered on the basis of a F.I.R. lodged

Special POCSO 16 of 2019 Page 1 of 7
by Mojammel Ali, father of the victim (hereinafter referred to as
xX’).

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 09.10.2017 the informant
Mojammel Ali (P.W.2), who is the father of the victim girl, alleged
interalia that that on 19.09.2017 at about 12:00 Noon, the accused
person namely Raiful Islam along with others committed penetrative
sexual assault on his minor victim daughter (X), aged about 10 years
when she went, near by filed to bring one goat. It was also alleged that
accused forcefully took the victim to the house of Tara Miah and
indulged in sexual activity with the victim. On hearing hue and cry of
victim, One Humaun Ali and Shahidul Islam came and rescued the
victim, when she was being abused by the accused. After that, victim
girl told about the whole incident before her parents.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-In-charge,
Baghbar Police Station, the same was registered as Baghbar P.S.
Case No 273/2017 under Section 120(B)/376 of IPC read with
Section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences
Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was
medically examined by the doctor, her statement under station 164 of
CrPC was recorded by the learned Magistrate. Police, on completion of
investigation, filed charge sheet, in the case, against the above named
accused Raiful Islam under Section 4 of the Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 vide charge sheet
No.01, dated 17.01.2018.

2). My learned Predecessor-in-office received the case record
alongwith the case diary of the case. Accused was summoned. On
appearance of accused, copy was furnished to him by my learned
Predecessor-in-office.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the
documents submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of

the learned counsel for the accused and the prosecution in this behalf,

Special POCSO 16 of 2019 Page 2 of 7
charge was framed by the undersigned against the accused under
Section 363 IPC read with Section 4 of the Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which was read over
and explained to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, O03 [Three] number of
witnesses including the victim, informant etc were examined on behalf
of the prosecution to prove the charge under Section 363 of IPC
read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

The statement of the accused under Section 313 of CrPC
was dispensed with as no incriminating evidence were found against

him.

5). | have heard Mr Lalit Ch. Nath, learned Public
Prosecutor of Barpeta, for the State as well as Mr. Faizur Rahman,
learned Defence Counsel for the accused, who is facing trial for
commission of offence under Section 363 of IPC read with Section
4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the point for determination before this court are as

follows ---

(i) Whether on 19.09.2017 at about 12:00 PM within the
jurisdiction of Baghbar Police Station, District Barpeta,
kidnapped Jesmina Khatun, aged about 10 years, who is minor
daughter of the informant Mojammel Ali, from nearby fiel of
her home and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 363 of IPC ?

(ii) Whether on the aforesaid date or thereafter at the house
of Taramiya, committed penetrative sexual assault upon the
minor victim, daughter of the above named informant and

thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of

Special POCSO 16 of 2019 Page 3 of 7
the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF :

 

7). To decide the above point and sections of law, let us
examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses

alongwith the relevant documents.

The Victim [P.W.1] has deposed in her evidence that
informant is her father. On the relevant date of the incident, one goat
of the accused destroyed her paddy in the field, for which, she (P.W.1)
went to bring back the goat of the accused and accused assaulted her.
Then, she (P.W.1) reported the matter to her family members. After
that, her father lodged the case. She further stated that accused did
not touch her body and did not kidnap her. Police sent her for my
medical examination. Police got her statement recorded under Section
164 CrPC by learned Magistrate.

P.W.1 exhibited her statement as Ext.1 and Ext.1(1)
& 1(2) are her signatures.

During her cross-examination, she deposed that
accused did not do any bad works with her and she gave her
statement before the learned Magistrate as told by Police.

8). Mojammel Ali [P.W.2] deposed in his evidence that he
lodged this case. He knew the accused, who is his nephew in relation.
He further stated that incident took place before 2 years. His victim
daughter went to field with his goats. His goats destroyed the paddy of
accused. Then accused assaulted his victim daughter for which, he
lodged the case. His victim daughter did not tell him that accused had
touched her body. Accused did not kidnap his victim daughter.
His cross-examination was declined by the defence side.

9). Humaun Ali [P.W.3] who knew the informant, victim and
accused of this case. He stated that incident took place more than 1 %

Special POCSO 16 of 2019 Page 4 of 7
years go. The goat of the victim damaged the paddy of the accused
person for which there was an altercation and assault by the accused.
P.W.3 stated that he was standing near the place of incident and broke
up their quarrel. Then, father of victim lodged the case.

In his cross-examination, he deposed that there was no
other incident took place except what he had told in his evidence
before the court.

10). From a close perusal of the evidence, it is seen from the
statement of the victim (P.W.1), who is star witness of this instant case
that accused Raiful Islam assaulted her. But, she deposed clearly in her
evidence that accused did not touch her body and did not kidnap
her. Her father lodged the case.

Thus, it is clear from the version of the victim, that
accused neither kidnapped nor raped her. This case was lodged wtih a
false story by her father against the accused person.

Moreover, the informant namely Mojammel Ali (P.W.2) also
deposed in his evidence that accused is his nephew in relation. P.W.2
further stated in his evidence that accused assaulted his victim
daughter when she went to bring back her goat from the field of the
accused. For which, he lodged the case. He (P.W.2) further admitted
that accused did not kidnap his victim daughter.

P.W.3 did not support the content of the FIR of this case
and simply stated that the goat of the victim damaged the paddy
of the accused person for which there was an altercation and
assault by the accused. He was standing near the place of
incident and broke up their quarrel. Then, father of victim
lodged the case.

11). Hence, | am constrained to hold that the evidence
adduced by the prosecution in support of its case is nothing shorter
than mere conjectures and suspicion. Consequently, the charge under
Sections 363 of IPC read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children
from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 is held to be not proved against the

Special POCSO 16 of 2019 Page 5 of 7
accused Raiful Islam beyond all reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the
accused is found entitled to get benefit of doubt, for which, the
accused Raiful Islam is acquitted on benefit of doubt under Section 363
of IPC read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

12). On scrutiny of the evidence on record, it is seen that no
case has been made out against the accused Raiful Islam to warrant
his conviction under Section 363 IPC read with Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 beyond all
reasonable doubt, for which, | am of the opinion that the accused is
entitled to acquittal on benefit of doubt, which | accordingly do.

13). In the result, accused Raiful Islam is acquitted of the
charge under Section 363 IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, levelled against him, on

benefit of doubt.

14). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 10%
day of July, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special POCSO 16 of 2019 Page 6 of 7
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Jesmina Khatun, the victim,
P.W.2 = Mojammel Ali, the informant,
P.W.3 = Humaun Ali.

(B) Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1 = Statement of the victim,

Ext.1(1) & 1(2) Signatures of Jesmina Khatun, the victim,

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.
Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special POCSO 16 of 2019 Page 7 of 7
