 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 09/2017.
(U/S -292/ of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 & Sec. 67 of IT
Act,2000)

State
- Versus -

Fayaz Uddin Laskar sea. asesees Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person :- Sri K.U. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidence :- 11.10.2018, 28.01.2019 & 29.03.2019.
Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC  :- 08.04.2019.

Date of Argument :-- 08.04.2019.

Date of Judgment :- 10.04.2019.
JUDGMENT

as The prosecution case, in brief, is that on

04.08.2017 the informant Smti. Rajashree Dhandia, Deputy
Superintendent (P), Hailakandi lodged an FIR with the O/c, Lala Police
Station alleging that the accused Fayaz Uddin Laskar is found
circulating certain obscene photographs taken with one of his students,
which have created heavoc to public morality and recently, these
pictures are going viral in social media and it might harm the
reputation of the said girl. It is further alleged by the informant that the
accused is a repeated offender of such type of crimes.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as
Special (POCSO) Case No. 09/2017.
12-

Lala Police Station Case No. 244/2017 under Sec. 292 of the IPC read
with Sec. 67 of the IT Act,2000 and Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act,2012 and
accordingly, police started investigation of the case.

3. During investigation, police seized 2 Nos. Of mobile
hand set alongwith SIMs. and certain photographs relating to the
incident, sent the seized materials to the FSL for analysis. Thereafter,
police also collected the FSL Report to that effect and subsequently, on
completion of investigation having been found prima facie case, police
laid the charge sheet against the accused person Fayaz Uddin Laskar
under Sec. 292 IPC read with Sec. 9 of the POCSO Act,2012 and also
under Sec. 67 of the IT Act,2000.

4. On appearance of accused person, copies of
relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to
him.

S. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.

Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record,
having found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person
has committed the offence, the formal charges have been framed
against the accused person Fariz Uddin Laskar under Sec. 292 of the
IPC read with Sec. 9 of the POCSO Act and also under Sec. 67 of the IT
Act. The charges so framed were read over and explained to the
accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried. Hence, the trial.

6. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined 4
Nos. of Pws including the victim and the informant of the case.
Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence
Counsel, the prosecution evidence was closed. The accused person is
examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has denied the
allegations levelled against him by the prosecution. The defence did
not adduce any evidence.
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 09/2017.
.3-
7. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-
(i) Whether the accused person on 4.8.2017 at
village Kacharithal under Lala Police Station put into circulation certain

obscene photographs of his student, the victim, by giving the same in
the social media, as alleged?

(ii) Whether the accused person during the
aforesaid day and place committed sexual assault upon his student,

the victim, as alleged?
(iii) Whether the accused person during the

aforesaid day and place transmitted the obscene photos of the victim
in the electronic form, as alleged?

DISCUSSION, REASONS AND DECISION THEREOF :-

8. The PW. 1, the victim, has deposed that the accused
was her teacher while she was studying in Class IX at Model High
School, Kacharital. About 2- 1/2 years back she alongwith her
classmates got snapped a group photo and thereafter, she came to
know that someone had edited the photograph and did someithing
unwanted and after seeing the photograph she became shocked. It is
further deposed by the victim that she does not have any allegation
against the acci'sed person.

In cross examination, the victim has stated that it is
her strong suspect that in order to blame her, someone fabricated the
story.

9. The PW. 2, Smti. Rajashree Dhandia, SDP,
(Vigilance), Anti Corruption, Guwahati, has deposed that on 4.8.2017
she was posted at Hailakandi as SDP. (Probationary), Hailakandi and on
that day, he received an information through Facebook that one
teacher namely Foiz Uddin Laskar was found in indecent manner/
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 09/2017.
a4.

obscene manner with a girl student and then she consulted Sri
Pronabjyoti Goswami, SP., Hailakandi and showed him the obscene
photographs and on being advised, she lodged the FIR with the O/C,
Lala Police Station vide Ext. 1 and Ext. 1(1) is her signature and Exts.
2, 2(1) and 2(2) are the said obscene photographs.

In cross examination, the informnat has stated that
she can not say the names of the persons who forwarded the
photographs to her mobile phone and whether the photographs had
been captured by the mobile phone of accused. It is further stated by
the informant that she has not submitted any documentary evidence to
show that the accused is a habitual offender and she also does not
know the mobile number of the accused.

10. The PW. 3, Abu Bakkar Laskar has deposed that the
victim is his wife. After his marriage with the victim, he saw the
photograph of his wife with the accused in whatsap of the mobile
phone of his friend but on being asked, his friend did not state him the
source from where he got the photograph.

In cross examination, the witness has deposed that
such type of photograph can be made fradulently by using modern
technology and he also can not say whether the photograph was
genuine or not.

an The PW. 4, Jamal Uddin Laskar, the father of the
victim, has deposed that about 2 years back one day, the police of Lala
Police Station called him to the police station and showed him a
photograph of his daugher with the accused and accordingly, he asked
his daugther about the photograph but she replied him that she never
had any such photograph with the accused and therefore, it is his
strong belief that someone with intent to defame his daughter did this
by editing his daughter’s good photograph.

AZ. In the instant case, the prime witness is the victim
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 09/2017.
45.

herself and her evidence bears much significance to prove the alleged
commission of the offence. The victim in her evidence has
unequivocally divulged that about 2- 1/2 years back she alongiwth her
classmates got snapped a group photo and thereafter, she came to
know that someone had edited the photograph and did something
unwanted. She has also made it clear that she does not have any
allegation against the accused and at present, she is a married woman
and has been leading her marital life happily with her child. Moreover,
Though informant (PW. 2) in her evidence in chief has stated that she
received information through Facebook that the accused Foiz Uddin
Laskar was found in indecent manner/obscene manner with a girl
student but in her cross examination, she has stated that she can not
say the names of the persons who forwarded the photographs to her
mobile phone. The informant also clearly stated that she can not say
whether the photographs have been captured from the mobile phone
of accused or not and even, she does not know the mobile number of
the accused. The PW. 3, the husband of the victim, also divulged in
evidence that such type of photograph can be made fradulently by
using modern techonology. From the evidence of the PW. 4, the father
of the victim, it also appears that according to him (PW.4), someone
with intent to defame her daughter did indecent act by editing his
daugther’s good photograph.

13. In view of the above discussion, it appears that
none of the Prosecution witnesses has been able to implicate the
accused person with the commission of the crime alleged, rather, the
victim, who is the prime witness of the case as well as her father
(PW.4) has given cleanchit to the accused saying that they do not have
any allegation against him. As such, | do not find it appropriate to
entangle the accused person with the guilt of commission of the
crime alleged.

14. Accordingly, the accused person Fayaz Uddin
CONTE iessvescees P/6.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 09/2017.
-6-

Laskar is acquitted of the offence under Sec. 292 IPC read with
Sec. 9 of the POCSO Act and also under Sec. 67 of the IT
Act,2000. Set him at liberty forthwith.

15. The bail bond of the accused person stands
discharged.
16. Send a copy of this judgment to the District

Magistrate, Hailakandi.

17. The Special (POCSO) case is_ disposed of
accordingly.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open
Court under the seal of this Court and on my signature on this 10”
day of April, 2019.

Q.
os

Special \Haitakandi

Hallakandi

Special JadyeXMahakandi

Hailakandi

tation is taken and transcri by Baharul Islam Ch h
Stenographer Grade - I.
dF
Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, the Victim.

PW. 2, the Informant,

PW. 3, Abu Bakkar Laskar &

PW. 4, Jamal Uddin Laskar.
Documentary evidences :-

Ext. 1- FIR.

Ext. 2, 2(1) and 2(2) - Photographs.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

 

Hailakandi
