Page 1 of 12

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 16/15

Informant: XXXX

Accused: Sri Sanjay Dey,
S/o- Late Binod Dey,
R/o- Hukuta Chariali,
PS- Duliajan,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. A Saikia, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 12

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 16/15
G.R. Case No. 442/15

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Sanjay Dey

Charge u/S 4 PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 01-06-15, 20-06-15, 04-07-15, 06-08-15 & 14-10-15.
Date of argument —: 21-12-15 & 01-02-16.

Date of Judgment _—_: 15-02-16.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that the accused person was the tenant of a house
wherein the informant family were also co-tenants. On 20-02-15, the accused
person was watching TV inside the room of the informant’s house when the
prosecutrix aged about 6 (six) years came inside and the accused person
took the opportunity to sexually harass the prosecutrix. The mother of the
prosecutrix lodged the First Information Report on 20-02-15 whereafter
investigation commenced. During the course of investigation, the
Investigating Officer visited the place of occurrence, drew up Sketch-Map,
recorded the statement of witnesses, seized certain documents, got the
statement of the prosecutrix recorded by the Magistrate and also got medical
examination conducted upon her and on completion of investigation,
submitted the Charge-Sheet.
Upon committal, my learned predecessor framed charge under Section 4 of
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (hereinafter PCSO Act)
against the accused person and the charge was read over and explained to
the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined seven witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Mr. Saikia, learned counsel

for the defence.
5)

6)

7)

8)

Page 3 of 12

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the prosecutrix was a child within the meaning of Section
2(d) of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(hereinafter ‘the Act’)?
2. Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault upon the
prosecutrix?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

As per medical evidence adduced by PW-6 Dr. Nibedita Shyam on the basis of
physical, radiological and laboratory investigation, the age of the prosecutrix
was above 6 (six) years and below 8 (eight) years, which is not disputed and
hence, it is established that the prosecutrix was a child at the time of

occurrence.

Point No. 2:

The prosecutrix in this case is merely 6/7 years old and therefore, certain
questions were put to her to test her intelligence and understanding and on
being satisfied that she can give rational answers to the questions put to her,
her examination was proceeded with.

PW-1, the prosecutrix deposed that she knew the accused person whom she
used to address as Khura (uncle). The accused used to reside near their
house. She further stated that at the time of occurrence, when her mother
was weaving at the backside of their house, she went inside of their house
for drinking water and at that time, the accused was watching TV inside the
room of their house. The accused caught hold of her and pulled down her
panty and also pulled down his under pant and rubbed his penis against her
Susu (vagina). She pushed him away and went out of the room and reported
the matter to her mother. During cross-examination, PW-1 stated that at the
time of occurrence, she cried but she did not raise halla. She denied the
defence suggestion that no incident took place and the accused did not
commit anything with her. Therefore, the version of the prosecutrix could not
be shaken in any manner during cross-examination, except by way of
suggestions. However, being a child witness whose statement was recorded
after quite some time by the Investigating Officer, judicial prudence would
demand some corroboration.

PW-2 the mother of the prosecutrix deposed that they reside in an adjoining
Page 4 of 12

room of a rented house. The house of the accused is separated by a wall
from her house. On the day of occurrence, at about 12:00 noon, while she
was weaving at the backside of their rented house, her daughter was playing
with her friend and then, she went inside the house to drink water, but came
out crying in less than five minutes and told her that the accused person took
off her panty and rubbed his penis against her ‘Susu’ (vagina). At that time,
she was wearing chemise and panty. PW-2 further stated that she did not
know whether the accused was in the room or not, as the TV was playing in
low volume. When her daughter reported the matter to her, she went inside
her house, but did not find the accused there and the TV was playing in a
very low volume. PW-2 further stated that the accused used to visit their
house earlier also and used to watch TV. Immediately, she informed the
matter to the owner of their rented house Smti. Dulumoni Gogoi and she
asked PW-2 not to spread the matter. She further stated that as her husband
was away as a daily labourer, she did not take any action at that time.
However, in the evening, her daughter narrated the incident to her husband
and he rebuked PW-2, asking PW-2 where she was at that time. She further
stated that she did not report the matter immediately to police as she had to
go to Rajgarh to attend a Nam Kirtan (religious ceremony). On Monday, she
returned and confronted the accused and slapped him. On the next day, in
the evening, the accused after getting drunk came in the night and hurled
abuses at them in filthy language, whereafter the accused attempted to
overrun them with his four wheeler in front of the house. On the next day
morning, PW-2 lodged an ejahar at the police station. She got the ejahar
written by a person, who used to come to Duliajan Police Station. PW-2
further stated that said the person wrote the ejahar as per her version
whereafter she signed the ejahar. During cross-examination, it was put to her
that she did not state before the Investigating Officer that- "On the next day,
in the evening, the accused after getting drunk in the night and hurl abuses
at us in filthy language. The accused attempted to overrun us with his four
Wheelers in front of the house.” PW-2 denied the aforesaid omission, but the
defence failed to get the said omission confirmed by the Investigating Officer.
The usual defence suggestions in denial of the occurrence were put to her
which she denied. Therefore, the evidence of PW-2 also could not be shaken

in any effective manner by way of any material omission or contradiction with
Page 5 of 12

regard to her previous statement before the Investigating Officer.

9) In Gentela Vijaya Vardhan Rao vs. State of AP [1996 (6) SCC 241], the
Hon'ble Apex Court observed:

"The principle or law embodied in Section 6 of the Evidence Act is
usually knows as the rule of res gestae recognized in English Law. The
essence of the doctrine Is that fact which, though not in issue, is so
connected with the fact in issue ‘as to form part of the same transaction’
becomes relevant by itself, This rule is, roughly speaking, an exception to
the general rule that hearsay evidence is not admissible. The rationale in
making certain statement or fact admissible under Section 6 of the
Evidence Act is on account of the spontaneously and immediacy of such
statement or fact in relation to the fact in issue. But it is necessary that
such fact or statement must be part of the same transaction. In other
words, such statement must have been made contemporaneous with the
acts which constitute the offence or at least immediately thereafter. But if
there was an interval, however slight it may be, which was sufficient
enough for fabrication then the statement is not part of res gestae.”

10) Considering the fact that the prosecutrix narrated the incident to PW-2
immediately after the occurrence, the account given by PW-2 would be an
admissible and relevant piece of evidence under Section 6 of the Evidence
Act. The other part of PW-2’'s evidence regarding the accused person having
attacked the informant side at night and attempting to run them over with his
four wheelers is an eye-witness account which stood firm during cross-
examination. Since the aforesaid incident is a corollary to and an effect of a
fact in issue, it is a relevant fact which corroborates the fact in issue, i.e., the
incident of sexual assault. Therefore, it is admissible under Section 7 of the
Evidence Act.

11)PW-3, the father of the prosecutrix deposed that the prosecutrix is his
daughter and on the day of occurrence, when he came back to his house at
about 5:00 pm, his daughter reported to him that when she went inside the
house for drinking water, the accused was watching TV and he inserted his
penis into her vagina after taking off her panty and immediately, she ran out
from the room and reported the matter to her mother, who was weaving at
the backside of their house. PW-3 further stated that his wife also told him in

the same manner about the occurrence as told by his daughter. His wife also
Page 6 of 12

told him that at the time of occurrence, she was weaving at the backside of
their house. PW-3 did not report the matter immediately to any other person
on Monday as he had to go to Rajgarh to attend a religious ceremony. On
Tuesday, after his return from the said religious ceremony, his wife confronted
the accused and she also slapped him. Upto this point, the deposition of
PW-3 is in the realm of hearsay.

12) PW-3 further stated that on the said night, at about 10:00 pm, the accused
came in a drunken condition and he attempted to overrun them with his four
wheeler vehicle in front of their house. The accused also destroyed the
weaving articles of PW-3’s wife and thereafter, he fled from the place of
occurrence. PW-3 further stated that on the next day, his wife lodged an
ejahar at the police station regarding the incident. During cross-examination,
certain suggestions in denial of the occurrence were put to PW-3 which he
denied. Otherwise, his evidence also stood unshaken. No doubt PW-3 is a
reported witness who was told about the occurrence after quite some time
had elapsed. But the 2™ part of his evidence is an eye-witness account of a
fact relevant under Section 7 of the Evidence Act, for reasons already
discussed hereinbefore.

13)It has been naturally urged on behalf of the accused that PWs so far
discussed are interested witnesses, their evidence is to be considered with
utmost caution. That is no doubt true. But at the same time, they are also
the most natural witnesses of the case. It is by now well settled that evidence
of interested witnesses cannot be disregarded for that reason alone, more so,
when they are natural witnesses, unless there exists other reasons to discard
their testimony. In Jayabalan vs. UT of Pondichery, [2010 (1) SCC 199],
the Hon'ble Apex Court held:

"...We are of the considered view that in cases where the Court is
called upon to deal with the evidence of the interested witnesses, the
approach of the Court, while appreciating the evidence of such witnesses
must not be pedantic. The Court must be cautious in appreciating and
accepting the evidence given by the interested witnesses but the Court
must not be suspicious of such evidence. The primary endeavour of the
Court must be to look for consistency. The evidence of a witness cannot
be ignored or thrown out solely because it comes from the mouth of a

person who Is closely related to the victim.”
Page 7 of 12

As it apparent from the discussion of the evidence of the preceeding PWs,
their testimonies have been quite consistent on material particulars, and is
therefore worthy of credence.

14) This brings us to the evidence of an independent witness, namely, PW-5 Smti.
Dulumoni Gogoi, who is the landlady of the tenanted premises wherein both
the informant side as well as the accused used to reside as tenants. She
deposed that on the day of occurrence, at about 2:30 pm, when she came to
her house from her daily work, the complainant informed her that the
accused person took off the panty of her daughter and attempted to do foul
deed with her. Then, PW-5 asked the informant not to disclose the said
incident to anybody as the victim was a minor. After three days of the alleged
incident, the informant confronted the accused regarding the incident near
the tube well near her house. On the next day, in the evening, the accused
after getting drunk, abused the complainant in filthy language and also
attempted to overrun them with his four wheeler vehicle in front of her
house. At that time, PW-5 along with the informant chased the accused
person and then the accused ran out from his house. During cross-
examination, she denied having omitted to state before the police about the
subsequent occurrence regarding the accused having attacked the informant
side in a drunken condition with his four wheelers. But the said alleged
omissions were not confirmed by the Investigating Officer.

15) The evidence of PW-5 also consists of two parts. One part of her evidence is
regarding the conduct of the accused on the next day after the main incident,
to which she is an eye-witness. This part of her evidence can be safely
admitted under Section 7 of the Evidence Act. The other part of it is
regarding the incident of sexual assault, to which she is not a eye-witness.
She deposed that she was reported about the occurrence at around 2:30 pm
as soon as she returned from work. The alleged occurrence took place at
around 12:00 noon on the same day, i.e., about 2 Y2 hours earlier. Therefore,
the reporting of the incident to the PW-5 by PW-2 cannot be admitted in
evidence under Section 6 of the Evidence Act. Due to lapse of such time, one
cannot be reasonably certain that the speaker was still under the stress of
excitement in respect of the transaction in question, so as to permit
consideration of the reporting thereof to the listener (PW-5) as part of the

same transaction. [Ref:Vasa Chandrasekhara Rao vs. Poona
Page 8 of 12

Satyanarayana & anr: {(2000) 6 SCC 286 (para 7)]

16) However, the evidence of the independent witness, i.e., PW-5 at least partly
corroborates the evidence of the victim as well as that of PWs 2 & 3.
Therefore, the discord raised by learned counsel for the accused in placing
reliance on the version of so-called interested witnesses can be given a
decent burial in view of the partially corroborative evidence adduced by the
prosecution through an independent witness, i.e., PW-5.

17)The statement of the victim was also recorded under Section 164 CrPC
wherein she stated that when she went inside the house to drink water, the
accused caught her hand and pulled her and sat her down on a chair near
the wall and let her stand near him and after taking off his as well as her
undergarments, put his penis to her vagina and undertook to and fro
movement. Therefore, the statement of the victim before the Magistrate also
subsequently corroborates her evidence before the Court.

18) Learned defence counsel strenuously urged that the alleged occurrence took
place on 15-02-15 and the First Information Report was lodged only on
20-02-15 and there is no explanation in the First Information Report as to the
cause of delay. Therefore, the delay must be regarded as fatal to the
prosecution case.

19)In Silak Ram vs. State of Haryana [(2007 )10 SCC 464], the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held as follows:

"Coming to the stand that there was delay in lodging the FIR and
in dispatch of the report to the Illaqua Magistrate, this also has been
elaborately dealt with by the High Court. Delay in lodging FIR by itself
would not be sufficient to discard the prosecution version unless it Is
unexplained and such delay coupled with the likelihood of concoction of
evidence. There is no hard and fast rule that delay in filing FIR in each
and every case Is fatal and on account of such delay in prosecution
version should be discarded. The factum of delay requires the court to
scrutinize the evidence adduced with greater degree of care and caution.
In this case the eye witnesses have given a vivid description of the
events. The evidence of PW 11 as noted above, is cogent and consistent
and the version given by this witness fits with medical evidence.”

20)Coming to the facts of the present case, admittedly the First Information

Report was lodged 4/5 days after the occurrence and there is no explanation
Page 9 of 12

for the delay on the body of the ejahar itself. But it is not necessary that the
explanation for the delay should find place on the body of the First
Information Report itself, as the same can be gathered from the other
material on record. The PW-2 in her examination-in-chief stated that she did
not report the matter immediately to police as she had gone to Rajgarh to
attend a Nam Kirtan and returned on Monday and confronted the accused
and slapped him. On the next day, in the evening, the incident of the accused
getting drunk and abusing and trying to overrun the informant took place.
PW-3 also deposed similarly. PW-5, the land lady deposed that she had asked
the informant not to disclose the incident to anybody as the victim was a
minor, but after three days of the incident, the informant confronted the
accused regarding the incident and thereafter in the evening, the accused got
drunk and abused the informant in filthy language and also attempted to
overrun her with his four wheeler and on the next day, they lodged the
ejahar. The Investigating Officer during cross-examination, stated that the
informant had stated that they did not want to lodge the ejahar against the
accused, but as he had threatened them on the night of 19-02-15, they
lodged the ejahar against him. Although there appears to be some variation
with regard to the precise dates on which the informant confronted the
accused, whether it was on the next day or two days after the occurrence,
the same appears to be natural, having regard to the fact that more than six
months had elapsed between the occurrence and recording of evidence of
the concerned witnesses. But considered as a whole, there appears to be
sufficient explanation for the delay. Moreover, in a case involving rape, sexual
assault or the like against women, particularly small girls, some delay is quite
natural and is expected and the Hon'ble Apex Court has granted ample
latitude in this regard [Ref: Md. Ali vs. State of Uttar Pradesh: (2015) 7
SCC 272]. In the facts and circumstance of the present case, I do not
consider the delay to be fatal to the prosecution.

21) The defence has made endeavour to establish the present as a case of false
implication. According to the accused himself, the motive for such false
implication is that the maternal grandmother of the victim had died about one
month prior to lodging of the First Information Report and the father of the
alleged victim had borrowed Rs. 3,000/- from the accused for the purpose of

meeting expenses on the death ceremony, on the condition that he would
Page 10 of 12

return it within one month. He failed to do so. When the accused demanded
money, the PW-2 got into an altercation with him and just to avoid paying
money, they lodged the present case.

22) Apart from the fact that the defence did not lead any evidence to establish
such motive, no such plea was taken during cross-examination of the
prosecution witnesses. Rather, what was suggested to PW-2 was that as the
wife of the accused belonged to the Tea Tribe community, they wanted to
drive them out of the said house, and to achieve the said purpose, they have
lodged this false case against the accused. To the PW-3, an even divergent
suggestion was made, which is that, as the mother of the victim slapped the
accused without any cause and fearing that the accused would lodge a case
against her, PW-2 had immediately lodged a false ejahar against him. The
wife of the accused was examined as PW-4 and she had also deposed that a
quarrel had taken place between her husband and the mother of the victim
where the latter slapped the former and during cross-examination, she stated
that the mother of the victim did not want the accused side to stay near their
house as they belonged to the Bengali community and therefore, she lodged
a false case against her husband. There is no allusion to any financial
transaction between the accused and the informant side being the cause of
lodging of the present case, as alleged by the accused. As can be readily
discerned, different causes were attributed at different times as the
motivation behind a false case against the accused. In view of such mutually
destructive stands, the defence plea regarding false implication cannot be
accepted.

23)From the discussion made above, I have no hesitation in holding that the
guilt of the accused stands established, but the extent of its guilt requires
further consideration. The accused has been charged under Section 4 of the
PCSO Act which relates to commission of penetrative sexual assault which is
defined under Section 3 of the PCSO Act as follows:

3. Penetrative sexual assault. A person is said to commit
“penetrative sexual assault” if-

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth,
urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him
or any other person; or

(b) XXXX
Page 11 of 12

24) What the victim deposed in her evidence before the Court is that the accused
person rubbed his penis against her vagina. The medical evidence as
adduced by PW-6 did not detect any evidence of injury on the victim’s body
or private part. The doctor did not even detect any tenderness in her private
parts, which would be expected in case of forceful penetration of a 6/7 years
old. Under these circumstances, it cannot be said that the ingredients as
required under Section 3 of the Act stands established. However, there
cannot be an iota of doubt that act of the accused satisfies the ingredients of
Section 7 of the PCSO Act relating to sexual assault punishable under Section
8 of the PCSO Act. The point is answered accordingly.

25) In the result, I hold that the accused person is guilty under Section 8 of the
PCSO Act and he is convicted accordingly with the aid of Section 222 CrPC.
26) Since the accused has been found guilty of sexually assaulting a very young
child, he does not deserve to be extended the benefit of Section 361 CrPC or

the provision of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958.

27) Heard the convict and the learned Public Prosecutor on the quantum of
sentence. The accused has stated that he is a poor person having to look
after his family consisting of his wife and daughter and accordingly, prays for
leniency.

28) Considering all material aspects, I am of the view that the ends of justice
would be met by imposing a sentence of 3 (three) years RI and to pay a fine
of Rs. 5,000/- (Rupees Five Thousand Only), in default, one month (30 days)
SI. He is accordingly sentenced.

29) Furnish a free copy of this judgment to the convict immediately and send a
copy to the District Magistrate, Dibrugarh.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 15™ day of

February, 2016.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 12 of 12

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 The prosecutrix;
2. PW-2 The mother of the prosecutrix;
3. PW-3 The father of the prosecutrix;
4. PW-4 Smti. Rupali Dey;
5. PW-5 Smti. Dulumoni Gogoi;
6. PW-6 Dr. Nibedita Shyam; and
7. PW-7 SI Tilak Bora.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Medico-legal Report;
4. Ext. 4 Sketch-Map;
5. Ext. 5 Seizure-List; and
6. Ext. 6 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
