 

Present:Smti S. Bhuyan
Special Judge
Nalbari.

Spl (P) CASE NO: 19/19
u/s- 376 IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act.

State Of ASSAM .....ssseeeeeeeeeeees Complainant
-V/sS-

Sri Parimal Das.

S/O-Sri Anil Das.

R/O, Vill- Rangaphali.

PS-Ghograpar, Dist-Nalbari.......:: Accused person
Appearance :-

For the prosecution : Mr. K. Sarma, Special PP
For the defence : Mr. P. Sarma, Advocate.

Date of institution of the case __: 04/04/19

Date of framing charge : 29/05/19

Date of evidence : 01/07/19, 02/07/19,03/07/19,
04/07/19, 05/07/19, 06/07/19,

Statement of accused recorded : 22/07/19

Date of Argument : 08/08/19
Judgment Delivered : 19/08/19
UDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution as revealed from the ejahar

lodged by Suruj Ali is that on 2/4/19 accused parimal Das over
phone called his daughter Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y' at about 7 pm and
kidnapped Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y' and committed rape with Miss 'X'
in side a pond for whole night. Hence, the case.

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 1 of 17
2. Dhamdhama O.P. received the ejahar on 03/04/19 and
forwarded the ejahar to Ghograpar PS and registered Ghograpar
PS case no.125/19 and lynched investigation. I/C Dnamdhama OP
after making GD entry no.54/19 dated 04/04/19 entrusted SI H.
Rabha with the investigation. During investigation, he visited
house of informant, recorded statement of the informant, and
visited the house of the accused and brought him to the police
station and on next day after medical examination he was
produced before the court. In the morning of 4/4/19 |/O visited the
place of occurrence, drawn sketch map of the place of occurrence,
recorded the statement of the witnesses, victim and produced the
victim for medical examination and then produced her before the
court to record her statement u/s-164 Cr.P.C. and seized school
certificate vide Ext-6 seizure list. After completion of investigation
submitted charge sheet against the accused Parimal Das u/s-376
IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the charge sheet cognizance taken and and
after furnishing copies to the accused, framed charge u/s-376 IPC
read with section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused Parimal
Das and when charges are read over and explained to the accused
he pleaded not guilty and stood for trial.

4. In order to prove the charge against the accused person,
prosecution altogether adduces evidence of 11 no’s of witnesses
including informant, victims, 1/O and M/O of the case and exhibited
8 no’s of documents. PW-1, Miss 'X', PW-2, Suraj Ali, PW-3, Abed
Ali, PW-4, Jabe Ali, PW-5 Miss 'Y', PW-6, Nepal Das, PW-7 Gopal
Dey, PW-8 Hajrat Ali, PW-9, Arabinda Devnath, PW-10 Hrithviraj
Rabha (I/O), PW-11 Dr. Urmi Devi Choudhury (M/O). Ext-1,
statement of victim Miss 'X' recorded u/s-164 Cr.P.C, Ext-2 ejahar,
Ext-3 statement of Miss 'Y' recorded u/s-164 Cr.P.C , Ext-4, Sketch
map, Ext-5 Charge-sheet, Ext-6 seizure list, Ext-7 is the Medical
report, Ext-8 X-Ray report. After closures of the evidence of the
prosecution, statement of the accused Parimal Das recorded u/s-
313 Cr.P.C and accused plea is total denial however he declined to
adduce evidence in support of his plea of denial.

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 2 of 17
5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATIONS

(i) Whether accused Parimal Das on 02/04/19 at Naherbari village
under Ghograpar PS committed rape upon Miss “xX” ?

(ii) Whether accused on 02/04/19 at Naherbari village under
Ghograpar PS committed penetrative sexual assault upon Miss 'X',
as defined under section 4 of the POCSO Act and she is under the
age of 18 years on the date of incident?

Argument

6. Learned Special Public Prosecutor submitted prosecution
beyond all reasonable doubt able to establish the charge of
section 4 of the POCSO Act and 376 IPC against the accused
Parimal Das.

7. Refuting the same _ learned defence counsel made
submission that this is a concocted story made against the
accused only to put pressure on accused and his family members
to sale the land of accused which is present near the house of
informant. He further submitted that there is contradiction in the
statement of the two sisters and if both the sisters are present in
the place of occurrence the other sister not witnessing the incident
of rape that took place in the field as alleged by the prosecution is
not believable story and this is happened only because this is
purely made out case against the accused to pressurize him to
transfer the land in favour of informant. Ld counsel further
contended that the alleged victim of the case and her sister did
not disclose any fact to their parents for whole day as revealed
from the statement of the informant and that again show that this
is a made out case and because of this there was no story
disclosed by the alleged victim and her sister to their parents and
actually both the girl are at their home. Learned counsel further
submitted that near the field there is a residence but none have
got any hint of the incident nor heard any hue and cry of the girl
and statement of the alleged victim is not reliable and statement

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 3 of 17
of other witnesses with that of the statement of the informant and
victim are contradicted to each other. Learned counsel further
submitted the victim is not a minor and there is always error in
the radiological estimated age and if two years is added then
victim is above 18 years of the age.

Evidence

8. PW-1 Miss 'X' is the victim of this case. She stated incident
took place on 02/04/19 at about 7PM in the filed when she came
out from her house and was on road accused Parimal Das took her
in the field present on the back (west) side of their house,
removed her dress and committed rape on her, she sustained pain
when accused committed forceful sexual intercourse (rape) on
her and she shouted. When she was present on the road, her
sister Miss 'Y' was also present with her and when accused took
her to the field her sister followed her to the field. When she
shouted her sister came near to her and whole night herself,
accused Parimal and her sister spent in the field and on the next
morning at about 8 AM, they came home. When her parents asked
her where she went on the previous night she disclosed the
incident to them. Thereafter, her father took her to the police
station to lodge the case and her father lodge the ejahar. After
lodging the ejahar, police recorded her statement, produced her
before the doctor at SMK civil hospital for medical examination
and also produced before the learned Magistrate to record her
statement. Magistrate recorded her statement u/s- 164 CrPC vide
Ext-1. Thereafter, | was given in custody of her parents.

9. In cross she stated she knows accused Parimal from her
childhood days and he is a resident of contiguous village. On the
date of incident she and her sister was going towards the house of
her grandmother and on their way they met accused Parimal. At
that time no other person was present on road. Houses of other
persons stands near the place where she and her sister met
accused Parimal. In between the field and the place where they

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 4 of 17
met accused Parimal, 4/5 house present. she did not raise alarm
when accused Parimal took her to the field. she, her sister and
accused all reached field together. She and her sister did not shout
and raise alarm in the field. When accused committed rape on her,
her sister was present at that place. The house of Pura (nickname)
is present near the field where incident took place. Her sister did
not come to the house while incident took place with her in the
field. Police recorded her statement on the date of lodging the
ejahar and on the next date she made statement before the
learned Magistrate.

She denied the defence suggestion that she did not make
statement before police and Magistrate that accused forcefully
took her in the field and accused Parimal did not commit rape on
her on the date stated by her.

She also denied that she offered love proposal to Parimal
and Parimal refused her proposal telling that they are from
different religion and on the date of incident after meeting
accused on the road after talking with him she returned to her
home and stayed at her house at night.

It is also denied by her that her father put condition before
accused family that her father would withdraw the case if they
give them cash amount of Rs. 1,80,000/- (one lakh eighty
thousand) or 2 Bighas of land and their family member pressured
on accused family to transfer their land present near their house.

10. PW-2 Suraj Ali is informant of the case and he is the father
of the vicitm. His evidence is that the incident took place 3 months
ago in the Assamese “chot' month. On the date of incident his
daughter Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y' were missing from the evening. He
made search for his daughters, but did not find them at night. In
the morning he found his both daughters in the field. Whole day
he asked his daughters Miss 'X' & Miss 'Y' what happened to
them. They did not disclose the incident initially, in the evening
they disclosed that accused Parimal did “beya kam” (bad work)
with his daughter Miss 'X'. Thereafter, he went to police station
and lodged ejahar. Police arrested accused Parimal after lodging

the ejahar vide Ext-2. Police recorded his statement, recorded
Spl (P) Case No:19/19 5 of 17
statement of his victim daughters. Thereafter, his victim daughter
was produced before the doctor at SMK civil hospital Nalbari and
then she was produced before the Magistrate for recording her
statement. After recording statement of his victim daughter, she

was given in their zimma.

11. In cross he stated ejahar was written by a petition writer
present in the police station. On the night of incident he along with
his brother and other family members made search for his missing
daughters Miss 'X' & Miss 'Y' and while searching his daughters he
shouted loudly by calling their names Miss 'X' & Miss 'Y'. The place
where he found his daughter in the next morning is not far from
his house and near this place about 4/5 residents are present. He
was not present at his house when his daughter came out from
the house. Reaching home he asked about his daughter to his wife
and his wife replied they have gone to the house of their
grandfather. At a very little distance from his house accused family
possess land and in that way they have visiting terms with the
house of accused family.

12. He denied the defence suggestion that he wanted to take
land of the accused family; he has demanded Rs. One lakh eighty
thousand or 2 bighas of land from the accused family and told
them that if they pay me Rs. one lakh eighty thousand or 2 bighas
of land then he will withdraw the case and to take the land of
accused, he lodge the case against the accused by using his
daughters. It is also denied by him that accused did not commit
bad work upon his daughter Miss 'X’.

13. PW-3, Abed Ali stated in his evidence he knows the
informant and his daughter Miss 'X' as they are his closed
neighbours. He knows the accused present in the court as because
he hails from his neighbouring village. About three months back
at night parents of Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y' came to his house called
him and told him that their daughters Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y' missing
from their house and asked him if they come to his house. He told

them they are not come to his house. Accordingly, he went with
Spl (P) Case No:19/19 6 of 17
them made search for Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y' in the neighbours
house but they are not found in the neighbours house and on the
next morning he saw both the sisters coming from the side of
field. But he did not ask them.

14. PW-4 Jabe Ali deposed same tune as to that of PW-3. PW-4
also deposed that when parents of victim and he asked them
where from they came, they told that accused Parimal Das took
them. In cross he stated that he did not make statement before
the police as stated by him before the court.

15. PW-5 Miss 'Y' sister of the victim. Her evidence is that Victim
Miss 'X' is her elder sister and he knows the accused Parimal as he
hails from their neighboring village. The incident took place 3
months ago at night. On the date of incident when she and her
elder sister walking on road accused Parimal called and took them
to the field under a shed present in the field. After that accused
asked her to go to a little distance and thereafter accused
committed “beya kam”, accused touched breast of her elder sister
Miss 'X', removed her dress and committed rape (“koti mare”)
upon Miss 'X'. In the next morning accused left the place and
thereafter they came to their home. When they reached home
their parents asked them what happened. For the whole day they
did not disclose the incident as accused Parimal gave them
threatening to finish their lives if they disclosed the incident. At
night they (herself and her sister) disclosed incident to their
parents. Thereafter, her father lodge the case. Police recorded her
statement. Thereafter, police produced her before the Magistrate
where she made statement before the Magistrate u/s- 164 CrPC
vide Ext-3.

16. In cross she stated on the date of incident they met accused
Parimal when they were walking on village road. It is also stated
accused called her elder sister Miss 'X' and she immediately went
with the company of accused and she followed them to their
destination. Her sister Miss 'X' and accused proceeded far from her

and thereafter she followed them to meet them. In between the
Spl (P) Case No:19/19 7 of 17
filed i.e. place of occurrence and her house, 4/5 other persons
houses stand. she did not see when accused Parimal committed
“beya kam” with her sister Miss 'X'. Police recorded her statement
on the date of lodging ejahar and thereafter also.

17. She denied the defence suggestion that she did not make
statement before police that accused took them under the shade
present in the field. It is also denied by her that she did not make
statement before police as well as before the learned Magistrate
that accused touched breast of her elder sister and undressed her
and that accused committed rape on the date of incident. It is also
denied by her that she did not make statement before police that
they did not disclose incident to their parents in the whole day
(day time) out of threatening given to them by accused Parimal to
finish them. It is also denied that she deposed falsely that for the
whole night they stayed in the field with accused and on the date
of incident they reached home on the same night after walking;
and her father wanted to purchase the land of Parimal present
near their house which Parimal and his family refused to sell and
therefore her father using her sister Miss 'X' lodged this false case
against accused Parimal. It is also denied by her that accused
Parimal did not take them to the field and that accused Parimal did

not commit rape (“koti mare”) on her victim sister.

18. PW-6,Nepal Das stated in his evidence that he knows the
informant and his daughters. He knows the accused present in the
court as because he hails from his village. He heard from his wife
and co-villager that one incident took place between Sahitun and
accused Parimal but he was not present at his house at the time of

incident.

19. PW-7 Gopal Dey stated in his evidence that he knows the
informant but he does not know the accused. He came to know
about the incident after 15 days from his wife that one boy and
girl spent the night in the paddy field under tin shed.

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 8 of 17
20. PW-8, Hajrat Ali deposed in his evidence that after two
months of the incident while he was returning home after selling
fish he heard from the village women that accused Parimal taken
away informant's daughter Bogi and committed rape on her. In
cross he stated that he did not make statement before the police
that he heard from the village women that accused Parimal taken
away Bogi and committed rape on her.

21. PW-9, Arabinda Devnath deposed in his evidence that he
has no knowledge about the incident.

22. PW-10 Hrithviraj Rabha S.I(P) deposed in his evidence while
he was working at Dhamdhama Out Post on probation under
Ghogrpar PS, O/C Ghograpar PS entrusted him to investigate the
Ghograpar PS Case No.125/19 u/s-376 IPC r/w Section 4 of the
POCSO Act. The ejahar of the case is received by in-charge
Dhamdhama Out Post from one Suraj Ali on 3 /4/19 at 11:30 pm
and In-charge Dhamdhama Out Post after making GD Entry
No.54/19 dated 4/4/19 forwarded the ejahar to O/C Ghograpar PS
for registering a case and O/C Ghograpar PS after registering the
Same entrusted him to investigate the case. He visited the place
of occurrence at 12.30 am at the intervening night of 3 /4/19 and
4/4/19 and he went to the house of informant Suraj Ali at village
Naherbari and recorded the statement of the complainant. He
went to the house of accused and found him at his house brought
him to the police station and after medical examination he
produced him before the court. On the 4/4/19 he went to the place
of occurrence which is village field, drawn sketch map and
recorded the statement of the witnesses. He also recorded the
statement of the victim and produced her for medical
examination. Thereafter, he produced the victim before the
learned Magistrate for recording her statement u/s-164 CrPC and
seized one school certificate of the victim in presence of witnesses
vide Ext-6. After completion of the investigation he submitted
charge-sheet vide Ext-5 u/s-376 IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO
Act.

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 9 of 17
23.  Incross he stated he did not seize under garment of victim
girl. He recorded statement of all the witnesses between 4/4/19 &
5/4/19. He stated that witness Miss 'X' did not make statement
before him that accused Parimal forcefully took her in the field and
removed her dress. He also stated that Miss 'Y' did not make
statement before him that they did not disclose the incident to
their parents for the whole day (day time) out of threatening given
to them by accused Parimal and also accused touched breast of
her victim sister and undressed her and taken them under the
shed.

24. PW-11, Dr. Urmi Devi Choudhury is the M/O. On 04/04/19
she examined Sahitun Begum, aged 15 years, D/o- Suraj Ali of
village Naherbari under Ghograpar PS who was brought by Suraj
Ali, father and escorted by WHG-Namita Deka of Ghograpar PS in
connection with Ghograpar PS Case No. 125/19 u/s 376 IPC read
with section 4 of the POCSO Act. She examined the patient in
presence of Bhanita Kalita female attendant

History disclosed by patient:

She went with a known boy on 02/04/19 at around 7 PM and
physical relation occurred with him in a paddy field at night one
time on force and they went to police station at around 12.00
midnight on 03/04/19.

General condition of the victim good.

Her menarche was on 13 years, menstrual cycle was regular
and LMP 03/04/19 at around 3 PM.

On genital examination, genital organs healthy, vulva
healthy, hymen torn but healthy. On examination two fingers can
be introduced difficultly. Her vagina cervix healthy, uterus
anteverted normal size. Presence of venereal disease not seen.

Evidence on injury on her body or private parts not seen.
Evidence of struggling of wearing clothes not seen. Evidence of
stains examining fingers stains with menstrual blood.

Radiological examination skeletal age is estimated above 16
years and below 18 years.

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 10 of 17
On laboratory investigation vaginal swab- no sperm seen,
USG lower abdomen normal study.

On the basis of physical, radiological and laboratory
investigation, no recent evidence of physical relation or assault is

seen.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

 

25. The prosecution allegation against the accused Parimal is
that he had committed rape, penetrative sexual assault on the
victim Miss 'X' on 2/4/19 who is below 18 years of age. Ext-2 is the
ejahar. PW-2 is the informant of this case. He lodged ejahar on
4/4/19 before Dnamdhama police out post and Dnamdhama police
out post on receipt of the ejahar vide Dnamdhama O.P GD Entry
No.54/19 dated 4/4/19 at 12-30 am forwarded the ejahar to O/C
Ghograpar police station and O/C, Ghograpar PS received the
ejahar on 4/4/19 at 1 pm, registered Ghograpar PS Case No.125/19
u/s-376(3) and Section 4 of the POCSO Act. In the ejahar the date
of writing the ejahar is mentioned on 3/4/19. PW-10 is the I/O of
the case. He stated on 4/4/19 he was working as S.I(P) on
probation at Dnamdhama Out Post under Ghograpar police station
and In-charge of Dnamdhama Out Post on receipt of ejahar on
3/4/19 at 11-30 pm made GD Entry No.54/19 dated 4/4/19 and
forwarded the ejahar to O.C Ghograpar Police Station.

26. In Ext-2 ejahar PW-2, informant stated that his both the
daughter (name change) Miss 'X' victim and Miss 'Y' the younger
sister of Miss 'X' came home at about 5 am on 3 /4/19. PW-1 is the
victim Miss 'X'. She disclosed she and her sister came home in
next morning i. e on 3/4/19 at 8 am and when her parents asked
where she was on the previous night she disclosed the incident to
them. Thereafter her father took her to the police station to lodge
the case. If statement of PW-1, Miss 'X' is minutely read then it
reveals that she disclosed the incident soon she came home at 8
am. PW-2 informant, the father of Miss 'X' victim and Miss 'Y'
deposed whole day he asked his daughter Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y'
what happened to them, they did not disclose the incident and in

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 11 of 17
the evening disclosed that accused Parimal did 'Beya kam' with
Miss 'X'. Thereafter he went to police station to lodge the ejahar,
but statement of PW-10, I/O of the case and perusal of the case
diary it is seen that ejahar was not lodged by informant in the
morning when Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y' came home or in the evening
when according to PW-2 Miss 'X' disclosed the incident to them.
Ejahar was lodged at midnight on the intervening night of 3 /4/19
& 4/4/19.

27. PW-2 in Ext-2 ejahar stated that accused called his
daughter Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y' over phone and then he forcefully
took them in the jungle which is 100 meters distance from their
house. When Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y' came out from their house on
receiving accused call. From the jungle accused took them to a
little distance and kept them inside a pond for the whole night and
did indecent act with Miss 'X' and at that time his youngest
daughter was present at a little distance. It is further stated that
for the whole night they searched for his daughter and on next
morning at about 5 am both came home and coming to know
about the incident lodged the ejahar. While adducing evidence PW-
2, informant of the case stated his daughter Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y'
are missing from the evening. He made search for his daughter
but did not find them and in the morning he found his both
daughter in the field. On asking his daughter did not disclose the
incident and in the evening told that accused Parimal did 'beya
Kam' with his eldest daughter Miss 'X'. In cross stated at night
while he was searching his daughters at night along with his
brother and other family members he shouted loudly by calling
their names Miss 'X' & Miss 'Y' and place where he found his
daughter in the next morning is not far from his house and 4/5
residents present near the place of occurrence. In cross he further
stated he was not present at home when his daughter came out
and coming to home, he could know from his’ wife that his
daughter went to the house of their grand mother. In cross again
stated the accused family possessed land at a little distance from
his house and they have a visiting terms with the accused family

for that reason.
Spl (P) Case No:19/19 12 of 17
28. PW-1 Miss 'X' the victim of the case stated that on the date
of incident on 2/4/19 when she came out from her house on road
accused Parimal took her in the field which is present at he back
side of their house. At this place accused removed her dress and
committed rape on her and she sustained pain when accused
committed forceful sexual intercourse with her and she shouted.
Her evidence showed when she was present on the road her sister
Miss 'Y' also present with her and her sister followed when
accused took her to the field and her sister Miss 'Y' went near to
her when she shouted and for the whole night she, her sister and
accused spent in the field and at 8 am they came.

29. PW-5 is the youngest daughter of PW-2 and youngest sister
of PW-1. Her evidence is that when she and her sister Miss 'X' was
walking on the road accused called them took them to the field
under a shed, accused asked her to go a little distance and
accused committed 'beya Kam' rape with her sister Miss 'X',
removed dress of Miss 'X', touched breast of her sister Miss 'X' and
in the morning accused left the place. Thereafter they came to
their house and at night they disclosed the incident to their
parents. When statement of PW-1 victim, PW-2 the informant and
PW-5 sister of the victim is perused it is seen that PW-2 informant
was not present when his daughter PW-1 & PW-5 came out from
the home. From the statement of PW-2 it is revealed that he learn
from from his wife his both daughters went to their grand-mother's
house. PW-2 deposed that he made search for his daughter for the
whole night but he did not whisper a single line that he went to
the house of grand-mother to search for his daughter. Place of
occurrence is just 4 to 5 house from his houses.

30. PW-1 stated they reached home in the next morning at 8
am. PW-5 did not state the exact time and only stated that in the
morning they came home. PW-2 informant in his ejahar stated his
daughter reached home at 5 am. While adducing evidence PW-2
stated it was he who brought Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y' to home from
the field. PW-3 & PW-4 deposed that on the next morning when
they went to the house of PW-2 they noticed Miss 'X' and Miss 'Y'

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 13 of 17
coming from the side of the field that means the statement of PW-
2 he found his daughter in the field is contradicted by PW-1, PW-3,
PW-4 & PW-5. PW-1 & PW-5 evidence pointed both of them are
present together. They stated that when accused took Miss 'X°' in
the field Miss 'Y' followed them and accused asked her to stay a
little distance when accused committed 'beya kam' with her sister
Miss 'X'. In cross PW-5 Miss 'Y' stated that she did not witness
accused committing 'beya kam' with her sister and this witness by
‘bpeya kam' means commission of rape. The cross-examination of
PW-5 further pointed that when accused called her sister, her
sister immediately went with the company of the accused. PW-1 in
her chief and in her cross-examination did not state that accused
used force on her to go with him in the field. In cross stated that
she did not raise alarm when accused took her sister to the field
and she stated that she, her sister and accused reached field
together but her sister stated she was lagging between them and
therefore, she followed them to meet them. The cross-examination
of PW-1 Miss 'X' further revealed that she did not shout nor raise
any alarm in the field and near the place of occurrence 4/5 houses
present and nearby house is the house of Pura. Her evidence and
evidence of PW-5 pointed that Miss 'Y' did not go to the house
when incident took place with Miss 'X' and her house is about
12/13 houses after the place of occurrence. The cross of PW-1, PW-
2, & PW-5 shown that near the place of occurrence there is 4/5
residents presence. Their house is not far from the place of
occurrence. PW-5 claimed that she was present at the time of
incident and accused asked her to stay at a little distance while
committing 'beya kam' (sexual intercourse with Miss 'X'). Her
evidence pointed that she was not given any threatening nor
accused given threatening to Miss 'X'. Accused was not armed
with weapon. There was no restraining. PW-5 was not tied or
prevented to remove from the place of occurrence. Under such
circumstances when PW-5 was present at he place of occurrence
and when she understood what does sexual intercourse means
and when her house is very near from the place of occurrence and
house of 4/5 others residents are present she could have rush to

those houses or to her own house to seek relief from the other to
Spl (P) Case No:19/19 14 of 17
save her sister if accused has committed rape upon her sister.
Thus, the story of penetrative sexual assault does not inspire
confidence.

31. The statement of PW-11 pointed as per estimated
radiological age Miss 'X' is above 16 years and below 18 years.
Radiological age is not accurate age and settled principle of law is
that there is error of 2 to 3 years in the estimated radiological
case. Here in the case if 2 to 3 years is added on either side,
maximum is above 18 years age. It is also settled rule that where
there is error in the estimated radiological age benefit goes in
favour of the accused.

32. The statement of PW-5 revealed PW-1 gos with accused and
at that time there was no force and her evidence produced that
she was not prevented by the accused to move. PW-3, PW-4
evidence and PW-1 and PW-5 evidence pointed both came home
together and at that time accused was not seen by PW-1, PW-3
and PW-4. So under such circumstances, accused gave
threatening and they did not disclose the incident out of fear,
create doubt and their evidence does not inspire confidence and |
am constrained to hold that their testimony is not acceptable
beyond all reasonable doubt.

33. In view of the aforesaid discussion, | come to my definite
finding that prosecution evidence is not sufficient enough to hold
accused Parimal Das guilty of committing of offence u/s-376 IPC
and section-4 of the POCSO Act and | hold prosecution failed to
bring home the charge u/s-376 IPC and section-4 of the POCSO Act
beyond all reasonable doubt and accused is entitled to benefit of
doubt.

34. In the result, accused Parimal Das is acquitted from the
charge of section-376 IPC and section-4 of the POCSO Act and is
set at liberty.

23. However, his bail bonds remain stands for next 6 (six)
months u/s-437-A CrPC.

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 15 of 17
Judgment is given under my hand and seal of this court on
this the 19" day of August, 2019.

Special Judge
Nalbari

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge,
Nalbari.

Typed by:
Devajit Roy, Stenographer Grade-ll

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 16 of 17
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witnesses
PW-1, Miss 'X' (victim),
PW-2, Suraj Ali,

PW-3, Abed Ali,

PW-4, Jabe Ali,

PW-5 Miss 'Y',

PW-6, Nepal Das,

PW-7 Gopal Dey,

PW-8 Hajrat Ali,

PW-9, Arabinda Devnath,

PW-10 Hrithviraj Rabha (I/O),

PW-11 Dr. Urmi Devi Choudhury (M/O).

B. Defence witness
NIL

C. Prosecution Exhibits
Ext-1 Statement of victim Miss 'X' recorded u/s-164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-2 Ejahar,
Ext-3 Statement of Miss 'Y' recorded u/s-164 CrPC,
Ext-4 Sketch map,
Ext-5 Charge-sheet,
Ext-6 Seizure list,
Ext-7 Medical report,
Ext-8 X-Ray report.

D. Defence Exhibit
Nil.

Special Judge
Nalbari

Spl (P) Case No:19/19 17 of 17
