1 eCourtIS copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,

Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State
Learned Counsel for the defence

Charge framed on
Evidence recorded on

SPECIAL CASE _NO.63/2018
U/S.365 IPC, R/W Sec.4 of POCSO
Act

STATE OF ASSAM

Vs

Sri Sonaram Kisku
S/O Sri Jiban Kisku
village- Rangapara
P.S.Gossaigaon
Dist. Kokrajhar

beeeaees Accused .

Mr. Manjit Ghosh, Special P.P
Mr. Shyam Tudu

30.3.2019

20.4.2019; 3.5.2019;
17.5.2019; 7.6.2019

Argument heard on 5.8.2019
Judgment pronounced on 16.8.2019
UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that on 21.7.2018, xxx, father of

the victim lodged an FIR with the In-charge of Simultapu Police Out-

post alleging that his daughter, xxx, a minor girl has been abducted

by accused Sonaram Kisku. The FIR was forwarded to Gossaigaon

Police Station and a case U/S 366 IPC was registered.
2 eCourtIS copy
2. Upon completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was laid
against the accused Sonaram Kisku for commission of offence U/S
365 IPC, R/W Section Section 4 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act. The case was transferred to this Court for

disposal.

3. The accused was summoned and on his appearance, copies of
the relevant documents were furnished to him. After hearing both
the sides charges under Section 365 IPC, R/W Section 4 of the
POCSO Act was framed against the accused to which he pleaded not

guilty and claimed trial.

4. In the course of trial, prosecution examined 7 witnesses. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined
U/S 313 of the CrPC. The defence plea is of total denial and the

accused declined to adduce any evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION $:-

(i) Whether the accused abducted the victim and confind her in a

secret place ?

(ii) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on

the victim?

DECISION AND REASONS :

5. Pw-1 Sri xxx, the elder brother of victim, deposed that in the

month of July, 2018, his sister xxx, the victim, aged about 13 years
3 eCourtIS copy
and a student of Class-Vil went missing from house. Initially, he
thought that she has gone to her friend's house. After 2 days when
victim did not return we started searching for her. He called his
relatives but victim was not there. After about a week, his friend
Sibulon Murmu informed him over phone that he has seen Urmila in
the residence of accused at Rangapara village. He immediately went
to the residence of accused but could not find his sister in the
residence of accused. Thereafter, he lodged an FIR at Simultapu
Police Out Post and after 3 days the victim was recovered. Pw 1
deposed that his sister told him that accused had forcefully abducted

her.

6. In cross examiation Pw-1 deposed that he does not know the
name of the writer of FIR. The FIR was typed in Gossaigaon Court
complex. His statement U/S 161 Cr.PC was recorded in the Police
Station. He admitted that he had not stated in his statement to
police that Sibulon informed him that he had seen xxx, the victim, in
the residence of accused. He also admitted that he had not stated
before police that victim informed him that accused had forcefully

abducted her.

7. Pw-2 xxx, is the father of the victim. He deposed that he came
to know about the accused after his arrest in this case. In the month
of July,2018 while he was away from home his daughter went
missing. He searched for the victim in the residence of their

relatives, but could not find her. After a week he came to know that
4 eCourtIS copy
victim has been seen in village Rangagaon. He had gone to
Rangagaon but there also he could not find Urmila. Thereafter, his
son lodged an FIR and later, police recovered his daughter. After
recovery, his daughter told that she was abducted by the accused

and kept in a separate place other than his residence.

8. In cross-examination PW-2 deposed that the distance between
Chandrapur and Rangagaon is about 2 miles. He does not remember
the name of person who informed that Urmila Soren has been seen

at Rangagaon village.

os Pw-3 Benjamin Kisku deposed that he learnt that about 9/10
months back that accused had taken away the victim. In this regard,
the brother of victim had loged an FIR and later police recovered the

victim.

10. Pw-4 Sri Bilian Mardi deposed that he know Dilip Soren. He
does not know Sonaram Kisku. About 9 months back, he had heard
there is a dispute relating to Urmilla Soren and her birth certificate
has been seized by police. Dilip Soren asked me to accompany him
to Police Station. Accordingly, he had gone to the Simultapu Police
Out Post and put my signature on the Seizure list. Exhibit-2(2) is his

signature.

11. ‘In cross examination Pw-4 deposed that he does not know why
his signature was taken in Exhibit-2. He had personally not read the

contents of birth certificate.
3 eCourtIS copy

12. Pw-5 is the victim of this case. She deposed that in the month
of July, 2018, she had gone to the residence of her relative at
Gurufella. Accused too had gone to the residence of his relative at
Gurufella. She deposed that she and accused were talking to each
other. She also deposed that accused told her that he would marry

me only when | attained majority.

13. At this stage, the learned Special P.P sought leave of the Court
to declare the witness as hostile. On perusal of the statement of the

witness under Section 16 CRPC, leave was granted.

14. ‘In cross-examination by the Special P.P, pw 5 deposed that she
had given a statement under Section 164 CrPC. Ext 3 is the
statement and Ext 3 (1)(2)(3) are her signatures. She admitted that
she had made a statement in Ext 3 that she had eloped with
Sonaram Kisku in the month of Apil, 2018 but her parents brought
me back. She also deposed that she also stated that she had made a
statement in Ext 3 that on 7.7.2018 again she eloped with Sonaram
and stayed with him for 20 days. She denied the suggestion that she
made a statement that she had sexual relationship with accused. Pw
5 also deposed in her cross examination by learned Special P.P that
she made certain statements before the Magistrate because she was

afraid of Police.

15. In her cross examination by defence pw 5 deposed that when
she was produced in the Court, her parents accompanied her. She

categorically admitted that accused never committed any sexual
6 eCourtIS copy
intercourse with me and that she made the statement under Section

164 CrPC because of fear of my parents.

16. The other evidence need not be reproduced her since the
principal prosecution witness has not supported the case of
prosecution. The evidence of pw 5 does not implicate the accused in
any manner so far as the charges are concerned. There is no
evidence that accused had any sexual relationship with the victim
nor is there any evidence that accused abducted the victim and
confined her in a secret place. So being the evidence on record, no

onus shift on the accused to prove otherwise.

17. The points for determination are answered in negative.
ORDER
Accused Sonaram Kisku is acquitted of the charges under
Section 365 IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act and set
at liberty forthwith.
Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this 16"

day of August,2019.

Dictated by

Addl. Special Judge Addl Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
1. Prosecution Exhibits :-

Exhibit-1
Exhibit-2
Exhibit-3
Exhibit-4
Exhibit-5

2. Defence Exhibit

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1
P.W.2
P.W.3
P.W.4
P.W.5
P.W.6
P.W.7

4.Defence Witness

5. Court witness

eCourtIS copy

Appendix

FIR

Seizure list
Statement
Birth certificate
Medical report

Nil

Sri xxx, brother of victim
Sri xxx, father of victim
Benjamin Kisku

Sri Bilian Mardi

victim

Smt. Sriti Kisku

Dr. Manisha Boro Phukan

Nil

Nil

Addl. Special Judge(FTC),
Kokrajhar
