HEADING OF JUDGEMENT IN SPECIAL CASES:
DISTRICT: DHUBRI.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: DHUBRI.

SPECIAL CASE NO: 19/2018
UNDER SECTIONS: 376 IPC
READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE POCSO ACT.

STATE OF ASSAM
VS.
NIBASH CHANDRA BHAKAT

PRESENT:- DIPAK THAKURIA, B.A., LL.M., AJS
SPECIAL JUDGE,
DHUBRI.

APPEARANCES:-
B. R. BASUMATARI, SPECIAL P. P. FOR THE STATE.
A. U. AHMED, ADV. FOR THE DEFENCE.

DATE(S) OF EVIDENCE:- 22-06-2018, 21-07-2018,
27-08-2018, 13-09-2018,
21-02-2019.

DATE OF ARGUMENT:- 12-04-2019.

DATE OF JUDGMENT :- 24-04-2019.

JUDGEMENT

1. Accused Nibash Chandra Bhakat stands trial for the offences punishable under section
376 IPC read with section 4 of the POCSO Act for allegedly committing rape or
penetrative sexual assault to a minor girl on 03-05-2017 at about 1.30 p.m. in her school

under Golokganj police station.
. The facts of the case, as revealed from the ejahar, in brief, are as follows:- that on 03-
05-2017 the complainant lodged a written ejahar before the in-charge of Halakura police
check post against accused Nibash Ch. Bhakat with an allegation that on that day while
her 12 year old minor daughter at about 1.30 p.m. entered into the wash room at her
school, then the accused entered into the wash room, locked the room from inside,
gagged her mouth and by force fulfill his lust. The daughter of the complainant
somehow able to rescue her from the clutch of the accused and informed about the

incident to the head mistress of the school.

. After receiving the ejahar, in-charge of Halakura police check post forwarded the ejahar
to Golokganj police station where a case as Golokganj P. S. Case No. 375/2017 under
section 354-A of IPC read with section 8 of the POCSO Act was registered.

. On 09-05-2017 the Officer-in-charge of Golokganj police station filed a petition before
the Special Judge with a prayer to substitute section 376 IPC read with section 4 of
POCSO Act instead of section 354-A IPC read with section 8 f POCSO Act. My learned
predecessor vide his order dated 09-05-2017 allowed the prayer of the Officer-in-charge.

. The I. O arrested the accused, produced him before the Court and the Court remanded
him to judicial custody, recorded the statements of witnesses under section 161 Cr. P. C.
Also recorded the statement of the victim girl under section 164 Cr. P. C. By completing
the investigation, I. O. has submitted charge sheet against the accused person to
prosecute him under sections 376 IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act.

. During investigation the accused was granted bail.

. Cognizance of the case was taken in charge sheeted sections and issued the Court
process against the accused. The accused appeared in the Court and he was allowed to

remain on previous bail.

. Copies were furnished to the accused and after hearing both the parties and perusal the
case record and case diary formal charges against the accused under section 376 IPC
read with section 4 of POCSO Act were framed. Charges so framed were read over and

explained to the accused which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

. The prosecution examined eight witnesses including investigating officer and closed the

evidence.
10.Judicial Magistrate K. Bora who recorded the statement of the victim girl and two

medical officers were examined as Court witness.

11.During trial the accused defaulted and NBW/A was issued against him. The accused was

arrested by police and he was remanded to judicial custody.

12.After completion of the prosecution evidence and recording the statements of Court
witnesses the statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr. P. C. by putting
questions to him from all incriminating evidence appearing against him on record and
thereby giving him an opportunity to meet the same. In response to which, the accused
denied the allegations as well as evidence on record and also declined to adduce

evidence in defence .
13.Heard learned counsels appearing for the parties and perused the evidence on record.
FOLLOWING POINTS HAVE BEEN SET UP FOR DETERMINATION

Whether the accused on 03-05-2017 at about 1.30 p.m. at the premise of Jinkata
Nidhiram Bhakat M. V. School under Golokganj police station committed rape on the
minor daughter of the complainant and thereby the accused is liable to be punished
under section 376 IPC?

Whether the accused on the same day time and place committed penetrative sexual
assault on the minor daughter of the complainant and thereby the accused Is liable
to be punished under section 4 of the POCSO Act?

DISCUSSIONS ON THE POINTS FOR DETERMINATION AND THE DECISION
ARRIVED THEREON WITH REASON:

14.In order to establish the charges framed against the accused, the prosecution has
examined eight witnesses. Among them P. W. 1 Dr. Mahammad Laskar Ali who ascertain
the age of the victim girl and exhibited his report as Ext. 1 and the X-ray plate as Ext. 2.
P. W. 2 Dr. Muskura Ahmed is the medical officer who examined the victim girl on 04-
05-2017 at Dhubri Civil Hospital in connection with the case and exhibited her report as
Ext. 3. P. W. 3 is the complainant and the mother of the victim girl who exhibited the

p
ejahar as Ext. 4. P. W. 4 is the victim girl who exhibited her statement recorded under
section 164 Cr. P. C. as Ext. 5. P. W. 5 Basanti Sarkar and P. W.6 Anjali Ray are the
head mistress and the choukider respectively of the school where the victim girl studied,
P. W. 7 Jadu Nath Bhakat is the member of the Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat M. V. School
and P. W. 8 Satin Singh is the investigating officer who exhibited the seizure list as Ext.

6, Sketch map of place of occurrence Ext. 7 and charge sheet as Ext. 8.

15.Community Health Officer Mintan Ch. Pradhani was examined as C. W. 1, Dr. Asmat Ali
Sheikh who was the medical officer of Halakura hospital was examined as C. W. 2 and K.
Bora is the Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate Dhubri who recorded the statement of the

victim girl under section 164 Cr. P. C. was examined as C. W. 3.

16.The defence examined none. Plea of the defence is total denial of the case.

17.Learned Special Public Prosecutor B. R. Basumatary has submitted that the victim girl at
the relevant time was a student of class VII of Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat M. V. School. On
the day of the incident she went to wash room of school and then the accused who was
working in that school as plumber committed rape on the victim girl. The victim girl
immediately informed the matter to the head mistress of the school and she was sent to
her home. Her mother was informed about the incident. The mother of the victim girl
asked her daughter what had happened and the victim girl disclosed everything. The
complainant immediately called a doctor whom the Court examined as Court witness No.
1. As per advice of C. W. 1 the victim was taken to Halakura hospital where the victim
was examined by C. W. 2. The complainant lodged the ejahar without wasting time. The
witnesses examined by the prosecution and Court witnesses supported the case of the
prosecution. The victim girl described how she was molested by the accused. The
statement of the victim girl given before Judicial Magistrate and the deposition given by
her in the Court are found consistent and trustworthy. There is nothing to disbelieve the
prosecution witnesses as well as the Court witnesses. The prosecution is able to
establish the charges framed against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. So, has
prayed to hold the accused guilty under framed charges and impose adequate

punishment to him.

18.0n the other hand learned counsel appearing for the defence A. U. Ahmed has
submitted that the charges framed against the accused are very serious in nature. It is

the duty of the prosecution to establish the charges against the accused beyond all

4
reasonable doubts. On the next day of the incident the victim girl was produced before
the medical officer at Dhubri Civil Hospital for her medical examination. The victim was
examined by a lady gynecologist; but she found nothing abnormal. On the previous
night the complainant called two medical practitioners whom the Court examined as C.
W. 1 andC. W. 2. C. W. 1 did not examine the victim girl and C. W. 2 Is an Ayurvedic
doctor. He is not expert to say whether there was rape or not. As the medical officer
does not support the case of the prosecution; so, question of committing rape by the
accused does not arise. Besides it the alleged incident took place at about1.30 p.m. in
school compound. It is not believable that the accused would dare to commit rape on a
girl in presence of teachers and students. The evidences led by the prosecution are not
sufficient to constitute the charges framed against the accused. The prosecution has
failed to establish the charges against the accused beyond all reasonable doubts. So, the

accused deserves benefit of doubt. Hence, has prayed to acquit the accused.

19.Before we proceed, let us reproduce the material parts of the witnesses examined by the
prosecution during trial and the deposition of Court witnesses.

19.1 P. W. 1 Mahammad Laskar Ali is the medical officer of Dhubri Civil Hospital.
He has deposed that on 04-05-2017, he was posted as Medical & Health
Officer-I at Dhubri Civil Hospital, Dhubri. On that day, he examined the victim
escorted by WHG Tapati Ray in connection with Halakura PP GDE no. 63
dated 03-05-2017. To ascertain the age of the girl, X-ray was done and after
perusal of the X-Ray plate he find the followings:

Left wrist joint: Lower end epiphysis of radius is not fused which means the
age of the girl is less than 16 years.

Left elbow joint: Radial head epiphysis is fused which means the age of the
girl is more than 14 years.

Left iliac crest: Iliac crest epiphysis is not fused which means the age of the
girl is less than 17 years.

Impression: Approximate Radiological age of the girl is 15 years. Ext-1 is the
report prepared by him and Ext- 1 (1) is his signature therein. Ext-2 is the X-
ray plate. In cross examination he has stated that the word Radius is not
mentioned in his report.

19.2 P. W. 2 Dr. Muskura Ahmed is the Sr. Medical Officer who examined the
victim girl. She has deposed that on 04-05-2017, she was posted at Civil
Hospital, Dhubri as Sr. Medical & Health Officer, Dhubri. On that day, she
19.3

examined the victim girl in connection with Golokganj PS case no. 63/17. The
victim was brought by WHG Tapati Bala Ray. According to the victim, on
previous date she went to school toilet and then one person entered into the
toilet and did physical assault to her by force. On examination, she found the
patient was normal. She detected some scratches and abrasions over her
both hands. She did not find any evidence of sexual intercourse / assault on
the victim at the time of examination. Ext-3 is the report prepared by her and
ext-3 (1) is her signature therein.

P. W. 3 is the complainant and the mother of the victim girl. She has deposed
that her daughter on the day of recording her deposition in the Court was
just 13 years. She knows the accused. Her daughter is a student of Jinkata
Nidhiram Bhakat M.V. School. Last year she was studying in class VII. On 03-
05-2017, at about 03:30 PM she met Bhadoi Pathak who is a teacher of the
school of he daughter. She told her that an incident had taken place with her
daughter in the school. She had not disclosed in details. She immediately
visited the school of her daughter and met the Head Teacher Basanti Sarkar.
On being asked, the Head Teacher of Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat M.V. School
told her that she engaged one Nibash Ch. Bhakat to repair the bathroom
fittings in the school toilet. She has also disclosed that her daughter told her
that while her daughter went to the school toilet then the accused caught
her, removed her dress and committed rape on her. As on that time, the
school time was over, so her daughter returned home. She immediately
returned home and found that her daughter was crying. On being asked, she
told her that while she went to school toilet during school hours then the
accused Nibash Bhakat caught her and committed rape on her. She examined
her daughter and found blood stains in her clothes. Her daughter was
suffering from waist pain and unable to walk. Thereafter, she called Dr.
Mintan Ch. Pradhani. Said doctor examined her daughter. Thereafter, she
took her daughter to Halakura PHC where Dr. Asmat Ali examined her. On
that day, she lodged a written ejahar before I/C, Halakura Police outpost. The
I.O. recorded her statement. Next day, the I.O. produced her daughter for
medical examination at Dhubri Civil Hospital. The statement of her daughter
was also recorded in the court. She handed over the panty of her daughter to
police. Police seized the birth certificate of her daughter and given jimmah to

her. Her daughter is suffering from epilepsy and neurological problem. Her

6
19.4

19.5

19.6

19.7

memory is not sharp. She has exhibited the ejahar lodged by her Ext-4 and
also authenticated her signature therein as Ext-4(1).

In cross-examination she has denied the suggestion of the defence that she
did not disclosed before the I.0. that she was informed about the incident by
Bhadoi Pathak on the day of incident, in her residence she noticed that her
daughter was crying and also noticed blood stains in the cloths of her
daughter. She has also denied the suggestion of the defence that she did not
disclose before the I.O. that her daughter was examined by Dr. Asmat Ali of
Halakura PHC. She has denied the suggestion of the defence that she did not
hand over the panty of her daughter to police and she detected injury marks
in the waist of her daughter and her private parts.

P. W. 4 is the victim girl. She has deposed that complainant is her mother.
She is studying in class VIII at Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat M.V. School. In the
last year, one day, she went to school toilet and then the accused Nibhas
Bhakat entered into the toilet and removed her cloths, touched her body and
committed rape on her and told her that if she disclosed the incident to
anyone, he would kill her. Thereafter, she told the incident to school teacher
and also told the incident to her mother. She was examined by doctor and
her statement was recorded in the court. She has exhibited her statement as
Ext-5 and also authenticated her signatures thereon as Ext-5(1) and 5(2).

In cross-examination she has stated that students and teachers were present
in the school on the day of incident. There are two toilets in her school. At
the time of incident, she raised alarm, but none had come to the bathroom.
She told the incident to her Head teacher Basanti Sarkar and one Baneswar
Ray. The bathroom can be bolted from the inside. She has denied the
suggestion of the defence that the accused did not misbehave her and also
not threatened to kill her.

P. W. 5 Basanti Sarkar is the head teacher of the school where the victim girl
studies. She has deposed that she knows the complainant. She knows the
accused. The victim is the daughter of the complainant. On 03-05-2017, she
was working at Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat M.V. School as Head Teacher. At
that time, the victim was studying in her school in class VII. On that day, at
about 2:15 PM the victim came to her chamber and told her that on that day
while she went to wash room then accused Nibash Ch. Bhakat misbehaved

her by touching her breast. Then she informed the matter to Baneswar Roy

7
who was working in the school as Asstt. Teacher. Thereafter, she informed
the matter over phone to the President of School Governing Body Upendra
Nath Bhakat and Member Jadu Bhakat. As the President of School Governing
Body Upendra Nath Bhakat was out of station, he could not come. Member
Jadu Bhakat immediately came to the school. Thereafter, mother of the girl
visited school and she informed her about the incident.

19.8 In Cross-examination she has stated that there are two toilets in the school
campus. The toilets can be blocked from inside. When the victim told her
about the incident then she was alone. She has denied the suggestion of the
defence that she did not disclose about the incident to Upendra Nath Bhakat,
Jadu Bhakat and Baneswar Roy and the victim did not disclose anything to
her.

19.9 P. W. 6 Anjali Ray is the Chowkidar of the school. She has deposed that she
knows the complainant and accused. Victim is the daughter of the
complainant. On 03-05-2017, she was working at Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat
M.V. School as Chowkidar. At that time, victim was studying in their school.
On that day, at about 2:15 PM victim was crying in the Verandah of school
toilet. She asked her what had happened and then she told her that the
person who was repairing the pipe of toilet misbehaved her. During that
period, accused was engaged to repair the pipes of school toilet. When victim
told her the incident then she had not seen the accused on spot. Thereafter,
she brought the victim to the chamber of Head Teacher Basanti Sarkar.

19.10 In cross-examination she has denied the suggestion of the defence that the
victim did not disclose anything to her. At the time of incident teachers and
students were in the school.

19.11 P. W. 7 Jadu Nath Bhakat was one of the members of School Managing
Committee. He has deposed that he knows the complainant, accused and the
victim girl. On 03-05-2017, at about 02:15 PM Head Teacher Basanti Sarkar
of Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat M.V. School over phone informed him that
accused Nibash Bhakat who was working as plumber in the school
misbehaved the victim. He immediately came to the school and informed the
matter to the mother of the victim.

19.12 In cross-examination he has denied the suggestion of the defence that Head
Teacher Basanti Sarkar of Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat M.V. School did not

disclose anything to him.
19.13 P. W. 8 Satin Singha is the investigating officer. He has deposed that on 03-
05-2017, he was working at Halakura Police Check Post under Golokganj P.S.
as In-charge as on that day the In-charge was on leave. On that day the
complainant lodged a written ejahar before the Halakura PCP which he
received and forwarded the same to Golokganj P.S. for registration of a case.
The complainant in her ejahar stated that her 12 year old daughter was a
student of Nidhiram Bhakat M.E. School. On that day at about 01:30 pm
while her daughter went to the urinal then accused Nibash Bhakat inside the
toilet gagged her mouth and did bad work with her. Her daughter was
somehow able to run away and informed the matter to her Head Mistress.
After receiving the ejahar O/C, Golokganj P.S. registered a case as u/s 354A
IPC read with section 8 of POCSO Act and entrusted him to investigate the
case. On the day of incident after receiving the ejahar he visited the house of
the complainant situated at Gharialdanga Pt-II. He recorded the statement of
the complainant and the victim girl. He brought the victim girl to Halakura
CHC. Dr. Asmat Ali Sk examined the victim. He had not collected report from
Halakura CHC. On that day at about 10:10 pm birth certificate of the victim
girl was seized by him. The date of birth of victim was shown as 19-07-2005.
The birth certificate was given jimmah to the complainant. Next day, at about
06:00 am he visited the place of occurrence i.e. Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat M.V.
School, inspected the place of occurrence and prepared a sketch map of
place of occurrence. He recorded the statements of witnesses u/s 161 Cr.P.C.
The victim was again sent to Dhubri Civil Hospital for examination and also
sent to Dhubri court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On that day
the accused was arrested and produced him in the court. Thereafter, he
collected the report from Dhubri Civil Hospital. During investigation, O/C,
Golokganj P.S. filed a petition in the court with a prayer to substitute section
376 IPC, R/w section 4 of POCSO Act and the court allowed the prayer of
O/C, Golokganj P.S. After completing the investigation, he submitted charge
sheet against the accused u/s 376 IPC, R/w section 4 of POCSO Act. Ext-6 is
the seizure list and ext-6(1) is his signature. Ext-7 is the sketch map and ext-
7(1) is his signature. Ext-8 is the charge sheet and ext-8(1) is his signature.

19.14 In cross-examination he has stated that the complainant did not disclose
before him that she was informed about the incident by Bhadoi Pathak on the

day of incident and in her residence she noticed that her daughter was

9
crying. The complainant did not disclose before him that she noticed blood
stain in the cloths of her daughter. He seized no wearing apparel of the victim
and the accused. He seized no document from school.

19.15 C. W. 1 Mintan Ch. Pradhani has deposed since 2012 he has been working as
Community Health Officer at Halakura CHC. He knows the complainant. On
03-05-2017, at about 05:00 pm, the complainant called him to her house to
examine her daughter who was just 12 years old. At that time, the girl was
crying. She complained lower abdomen pain. On examination, he found mild
bleeding from her private part. On being asked, the girl told him that in
school one person named Nibash Bhakat in the bathroom sexually harassed
her. He did not prescribe any medicine and advised mother of the patient to
take her to CHC for better treatment.

19.16 In cross-examination he has stated that he is a Diploma holder in Medicine
and Rural Health Care. He has not produced his appointment letter in the
court. The complainant called him over phone. There were MBBS Doctors at
Halakura CHC on that day. There was no Gynecologist at Halakura CHC. He
found 3/4 persons in the house of the complainant. I.O. did not examine him.
He has denied the suggestion of the defence that the victim girl did not tell
him that in school one person named Nibash Bhakat in the bathroom sexually
harassed her.

19.17 C. W. 2 Dr. Asmat Ali Sheikh has deposed that on 03-05-2017, he was
working at Halakura CHC as Medical Officer (Ayurbedic). He received court
notice and he brought Medico Legal Register of Halakura CHC and the
prescription given by him to the victim. On that day, at 10:55 pm, he
examined the victim, a girl of 12 years old at Halakura CHC. As per history of
the patient there was forceful sexual intercourse on 03-05-2017 at about
01:30 pm. On examination, he found abdominal pain with mild per vagina
bleeding. He also detected pain and swelling in her left forearm. He
prescribed medicine and referred the patient to Dhubri Civil Hospital. He has
exhibited the Medico Legal Register of Halakura CHC w.e.f. 24-01-2017as
Ext-I. Ext-I (1) is the relevant page. Ext-I (2) is his signature. Ext-II is the
prescription issued by him. Ext-IT (1) is his signature.

19.18 In cross-examination he has stated that he is not a Gynecologist. In case of
emergency OPD ticket is not necessary. He has denied the suggestion of the

defence that he did not examine the victim and found no abdominal pain on

10
her and mild bleeding and also not issued prescription to her.

19.19 C. W. 3 K. Borah has deposed that on 04-05-2017, she was working as Sub
Divisional Judicial Magistrate (S), Dhubri. On that day, she recorded the
statement of victim girl aged about 12 years,
in-connection with Golokganj P.S. Case No 375/2017 u/s. 354A IPC, r/w.
Section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 and she was escorted by WHG Tapati Ray. The
victim girl was of a tender age and she asked some questions in order to
ensure that she was fit to depose. The answers of the questions put to her
ascertained that victim girl was found fit to depose and accordingly her
statement was recorded u/s. 164 (5) Cr.P.C. She stated before her that
Nibash Bhakat is known to her. On 03-05-2017 when she went to the toilet
during school hours, Nibash Bhakat suddenly came from behind. Nibash
Bhakat forcefully opened her salwar, pants and her undergarments and then
touched her all over and raped her. She was hurt between her legs and it
also started to bleed. Nibash Bhakat touched her all over her body and then
threatened to tell her teacher that she is a bad girl who does bad things and
ordered her not to say anything to anyone. He then went away. The
bathroom was lonely. Then she went and told Basanti Bhakat about the
incident. The statement of the victim girl has been recorded by her on the
voluntary deposition of the victim and the same was read over and explained
to the victim girl by her. Ext-5 is the statement of the victim recorded by her
and ext- 5 (3) is her signature therein.

19.20 In cross-examination she has stated that the victim was escorted by WHG
Tapati Ray. Her mother though was with her but at the time of recording her
statement she was outside of the court. She has denied the suggestion of the
defence that the victim gave her statement before her as she was tutored by
her mother. She has further denied the suggestion of the defence that the

victim was not able to understand the court procedure.

20. On perusal the evidence on case record it appears that the alleged incident took place
in the wash room of the school compound of Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat M. V. School. All
the non-official witnesses have deposed that the place of the incident was the school
toilet. The investigating officer on the next day of the incident visited the place of
occurrence i.e. Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat M. V. School and after inspection prepared the

sketch map of the scene which the I. O. has exhibited as Ext. 7 and proved the same by

11
21

authenticating his signature thereon as Ext. 7 (1). On perusal the Ext. 7 it appears that
the Head Mistress of the school showed the place of occurrence to the investigating
officer. The defence raised no dispute regarding the place of occurrence. So, it is clear
that the alleged incident took place in the wash room of Jinkata Nidhiram Bhakat M. V.

School.

In a case under the provisions of POCSO Act the age of the victim girl is important.
Section 2 (d) of the POCSO Act defines that a child under the age of 18 is child as per
the Act. The complainant (P. W. 3) who is the mother of the victim girl has deposed that
on the day of recording her deposition in the Court during trial i.e. on 21-07-2018 her
daughter was 13 years old. The alleged incident took place on 03-05-2017. So, on the
day of the incident the victim was 12 years old. During the investigation the I. O. seized
the birth certificate of the victim girl vide Ext. 6 seizure list. In the seizure list the
description of the birth certificate has been given where the date of birth of the victim is
shown on 19-07-2005. The investigating officer has deposed that after seizing the birth
certificate it was given zimma to the mother of the victim. But the prosecution has failed
to produce the same during trail. The defence does not challenge the seizure list (Ext. 6)
and its contents. Arithmetical calculation shows that on the day of the incident the victim
girl was just 11 years 9 months 14 days old. To ascertain the age of the victim girl
ossification test was done by P. W. 1 at Dhubri Civil Hospital. As per P. W. 1 the
radiological age of the victim was 15 years. He has exhibited his report as Ext. 1 and the
X-ray plate as Ext. 2. The defence does not challenge the report of the medical officer.
There may be two years variation on the opinion of the radiologist. If two years is added
with the opinion of doctor still the age of the victim girl is found 17 years on the day of
the incident. So, there is no iota of doubt that on the day of the incident the alleged
victim was below the age of 18 years and as such she is a child as defined under section
2 (d) of the POCSO Act.

22 The allegation against the accused is that on the day of the incident the accused

committed rape on the victim girl inside the school wash room. The victim girl in her
deposition given in the Court during trial has deposed that when she went to the toilet
and then the accused entered into the toilet, removed her cloths, touched her body and
committed rape on her. The accused told her that if she disclosed the incident to
anyone, he would kill her. She told the incident to the school teacher and her mother.

Basanti Sarkar (P. W. 5) who was the head mistress of the school has also deposed that

12
on the day of the incident the victim girl came to her chamber and told her that the
accused misbehaved her in the toilet by touching her breast. The head mistress
informed the matter over phone to the Governing Body Member Jadu Bhakat. Said Jadu
Bhakat (P. W. 7) confirmed the same. Another witness Anjali Ray (P.W. 6) who was
working as Chowkidar of the school has deposed that on the day of the incident she
noticed that the victim girl was crying in the veranda of the school toilet. On being asked
she told her that the person who was repairing the pipe of toilet misbehaved her. Then

she took the victim girl to the chamber of head mistress.

23 From the evidence of the complainant (P. W. 3) it appears that she was informed about
the incident by one Bhadoi Pathak. Though Bhadoi Pathak did not disclose everything to
her but she came to know that some untoward incident had taken place in the school
with her daughter. She immediately visited the school and head teacher of the school
told her about the incident. Thereafter she returned home and came to know about the
incident from her daughter.

24 Here we have to consider the presence of the accused on the spot at the relevant day
and time. Jadu Nah Bhakat (P. W. 7) has deposed that at the relevant time the accused
was engaged as plumber. Anjali Ray (P. W. 6) has also deposed that while she noticed
that the victim girl was crying in the veranda of the school toilet then the accused was
engaged to repair pipes of the school toilet. When the victim told her about the incident

then the accused was not on spot.

25 From the evidence of the P. W. 6 and P. W. 7 it transpires that on the day of the
incident the accused was engaged to repair of pipes of the school toilet. When the victim
was crying then P. W. 6 had not seen the accused on spot. It means the accused after
the incident left the place.

26 During argument learned defence counsel has pointed out some discrepancies of the
prosecution witnesses that the complainant was informed about the incident by one
Bhadoi Pathak in the market; but the head mistress disclosed that she told the incident
to the complainant and so on. The discrepancies pointed out by leaned defence counsel
are considered. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai vs.
State of Gujarat Cr. L. R. (S. C.) 1983 has observed that a/screpancies which do not
go to the root of the matter and shake the basic version of the witnesses therefore

cannot be annexed with undue importance. More so when the all important “probabilities

13
factor” echoes in favour of the version narrated by the witnesses. The discrepancies
pointed out by learned defence counsel will not shake the basic version of the
prosecution case and it is natural to occur such type of minor discrepancies in criminal

trial.

27 In this case the victim girl is the vital witness for the prosecution. As per section 118 of
the Indian Evidence Act all persons are competent to testify unless the Court considers
them to be unable to understand the questions put to them or unable to give rational
answers due to tender years, old age, disease whether of body or mind or any other
cause of the same kind. The victim being a child is most vulnerable witness. The
evidence of child witness has to be subjected to closest scrutiny and can be accepted
only if the Court comes to the conclusion that the child understands the questions put to
her and she is capable to give reasonable answers. A child witness by reason of his/her
tender age, is pliable witness. The child can be tutored easily either by threat, coercion
or inducement. During the investigation the investigating officer produced the victim girl
before medical officer for medical examination and in the Court for recording her
statement. The prosecution examined the medical officer Dr. Muskura Ahmed (P. W. 2).
The medical officer before examining her took the history from the girl who told her that
on previous day i.e. on the day of the incident she went to the school toilet and then
one person entered into the toilet and did physical assault to her by force. Though the
medical officer did not find any evidence of recent sexual intercourse or assault on her;
but her deposition is important as the victim girl disclosed the incident to her. The
medical officer exhibited her report as Ext. 3 which she proves by authenticating her
signature thereon. The defence does not challenge the report of the medical officer. In

the report (Ext. 3) the medical officer jotted down whatever the victim girl told her.

28 From the evidence of Judicial Magistrate K. Bora (C. W. 3) it appears that the victim girl
was produced before her on 04-05-2017. Before recording the statement of the victim
girl under section 164 Cr. P. C., learned Judicial Magistrate tested her maturity of
understanding by putting some questions to her and the victim girl replied satisfactorily
and learned Magistrate after being satisfied recorded her statement under section 164
Cr. P. C. (Ext. 5).

29 From the evidence on record it appears that there was no enmity between the accused
and the family members of the victim girl. So question of falsely implicating the accused

by the complainant and the victim girl does not arise. The accused was engaged as

14
plumber in the school and the head mistress, chowkider and the member of Governing
Body of School have deposed against the accused. The defence has failed to show any
reason of falsely implicating him by the complainant and the victim. While the accused
was examined under section 313 Cr. P. C. he simply denied the allegations and evidence

on record.

30 The oral testimony of the victim girl is found consistent as she disclosed the same story
before the medical officer and the Judicial Magistrate. Another important witness for the
prosecution is the mother of the victim girl. Her evidence is also found trustworthy. The
oral testimonies of the member of School Governing Body, the head teacher and the
chowkider of the school are also found believable. The defence though categorically
cross-examined the witnesses; but failed to discard their evidence given in chief.
Learned defence counsel has submitted that the prosecution witnesses tried to develop
the case during trial by saying new facts which they did not disclose before the
investigating officer during investigation. If the so called improvement statements of the
prosecution witnesses, as shown by learned defence counsel, are not considered even it
is proved that on the day of the incident the accused misbehaved the victim girl.
Evidence of the child witness can be relied upon if the Court comes to the conclusion
that the child is not tutored and her evidence has a ring of truth. In this case the victim
girl initially disclosed the incident to her head teacher, then her mother, thereafter to the
medical officer and the Judicial Magistrate and ultimately deposed in the Court during
trial. This Court carefully examined her and the Judicial Magistrate (C. W. 3) also
carefully examined her at the time of recording her statement under section 164 Cr. P.
C. After scanning the evidence on record of the victim girl, head teacher, the chowkider
of the school, her mother, the medical officer and the Judicial Magistrate it is found that

the victim girl’s evidence is true.

31 Initially the case was registered under section354-A IPC read with section 8 of POCSO
Act. Subsequently on the prayer of Officer-in-charge of Golokganj police station my
learned predecessor substituted section 376 IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act. The
investigating officer submitted charge sheet (Ext. 8) under section 376 IPC read with
section 4 of the POCSO Act. Charge against the accused was framed under section 376
IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Act.

32 To establish the charge under section 376 IPC the prosecution has to establish any of

the circumstances mentioned in section 375 IPC. Likewise to constitute the offence

15
punishable under section 4 of POCSO Act the prosecution has to establish the
requirements under section 3 of the POCSO Act. The main requirement of the offence of
rape and penetrative sexual assault, the accused has to penetrate his penis, to any
extent, into vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of woman or child. In the case in hand the

victim girl has stated that the accused committed rape on her.

33 Learned defence counsel during the course of argument submitted that on the next day
of the incident the victim was examined at Dhubri Civil Hospital by a gynecologist and
she found nothing abnormal and in clear words has reported that there was no sign of

sexual intercourse or assault on the victim girl.

34 Evidence of P. W. 2 Dr. Muskura Ahmed shows that on the next day of the incident she
examined the victim girl and after examination she formed an opinion that that there
was no consistent with recent sexual intercourse/assault on the victim girl. Her report
(Ext. 3) shows that she did not examine the victim girl properly. She simply filled up the
printed medical form. Unfortunate thing is that she did not examine the hymen of the
victim girl. Even her opinion has also not written by her own handwritings. She simply

put tick mark in one of the option out of three probable clinical opinions.

35 As per Modi’s Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 21° Edition pages 373 to 377
during examination of the victim the medical officer should examine the clothes of the
victim, marks of violence on the body, the genitals. To examine the genitals for the
evidence of rape the female should be kept in the lithotomy or knee chest position in
good light and the thighs should be well separated. In children either due to non-
cooperation or due to the fact that the separation of the thighs is very painful, it may be
necessary to apply either local anesthetic solution to the parts, or to administer general
anesthesia. During the examination the medical officer should noted 1. In grown up
females, if the pubic hairs are found matted due to the presence of semen, they should
be cut off with a pair of scissors and examined for the presence of human spermatozoa
or they should be preserved to be forwarded to the Chemical Examiner for the same
purpose. 2. Recently effused or dried blood may be found upon the genital organs or in
the neighbourhood, and in recent cases there may be bleeding from the vagina, which is
usually very slight. It should not be forgotten that the bleeding may be due to
menstruation, which is possible to be induced by sexual intercourse. 3. Bruising and
laceration of the external genitals may be present with redness, tender swelling and

inflammation. 4. In nubile virgins the hymen, as a result of complete sexual intercourse,

16
is usually lacerated, having one or more radiate tears, the edges of which are red,
swollen and painful, and bleed on touching, if examined within a day or two after the
act.

36 After considering the report of the medical officer (P. W. 2) it appears that in the name

of medical examination the doctor (P. W. 2) did nothing.

37 From the oral testimony of the mother of the complainant it appears that her daughter
told her that the accused committed rape on her. She examined her daughter and found
blood stain in her cloths. She immediately called C. W. 1 who has also deposed that the
victim girl complained abdomen pain. On examination he found mild bleeding from her
private part. As per his advice the complainant took her daughter to Halakura hospital
where Dr. Asmat Ali Sheikh (C. W. 2) examined and he also found abdominal pain with
mild per vagina bleeding. He prescribed medicine and referred the victim girl to Dhubri

Civil Hospital.

38 C. W. 1 is the Community Health Officer and C. W. 2 is an Ayurveda doctor. They simply
noticed mild bleeding from the private part of the victim girl and abdomen pain. They
have stated nothing whether there was any sign of penetration into the vagina of the
victim girl or not. As stated above the prosecution has to establish that the accused
penetrate his penis, to any extent, into the vagina of the victim girl. But from the
evidence on record it is not established that the accused penetrated his private part into

the private part of the victim girl.

39 From the evidence of the complainant it appears that she handed over the panty of her
daughter to the investigating officer. Record shows that the investigating officer did not
seize the same. The accused was arrested on the next day of the alleged incident. The
investigating officer after seizing the panty of the victim girl and collecting sample of the
accused could have been sent it to the forensic laboratory and then it would have been
clear whether accused committed rape on the victim girl or not. But due to perfunctory
investigation from the side of investigating officer and casual examination by the doctor

of Dhubri Civil Hospital the actual truth could not come to the surface.

40 In view of the above discussion and observation it is clear that the charge of rape and

penetrative sexual assault to the victim girl has not been established.

17
41 Now let us examine whether the act of the accused falls any of the offence under Indian
Penal Code or POCSO Act or not.

42 From the evidence of the victim girl it transpires that the accused after entering into the
toilet removed her cloths, touched her body. C. W. 2 while examine the victim girl
detected pain and swelling in her left forearm. P. W. 2 while examined the victim girl on
the next date also detected some scratches and abrasion over her both hands. P.W 5 the
head mistress has also deposed that after the incident the victim girl told her that the
accused misbehaved her and touched her breast. Anjali Ray (P. W. 6) has also deposed
that the victim girl told her that accused misbehaved her. At the time of incident the
victim was studying in Class VII. So, she will feel comfortable to share her uncomfortable
experience with her mother and her mother (P. W. 3) deposed that her daughter told

her that the accused removed her cloths and committed rape on her.

43 After meticulous scanning the evidence on record it transpires that the accused caught
the hands of the victim girl inside the toilet and for that reason the victim girl received
injuries in her both hands. Thereafter the accused removed her cloths and indecently
touched her body and private parts. It appears that the accused on the day of the

incident disrobe the victim girl inside the wash room of Jinkata Nidhiram M. V. School.

44 Section 354-B IPC deals with the offence of assault or use of criminal force to woman
with intent to disrobe her. For the purpose of this section, the act of disrobing
contemplates either the intention of disrobing or compelling her to be naked. Therefore
when a person has the intention of either disrobing a woman or compelling her to be
naked, and in pursuance to this intention, if that person either himself uses assault or
criminal force, or abets the use of assault or criminal force, he becomes liable for
punishment under this section. It is irrelevant whether the accused was successful in
either disrobing the woman or compelling the woman to be naked. Merely required
action on the part of accused in either use or abetting the use of assault or criminal
force will be sufficient for the purpose of mischief defined in this section. From the
evidence of the victim girl it transpires that at the time of the incident she was alone.
The accused put her inside the school wash room and the accused by holding her hands
removed her cloths. The act of the accused that he removed the cloths of the victim
inside the wash room shows his criminal intention and without any hesitation it can be
concluded that the accused committed the offence of disrobing to the victim girl as
defined under section 354-B IPC.

18
45 From the evidence on record it transpires that the accused touched the breast of the
victim girl and her private parts. Sexual assault defines under section 7 of the POCSO
Act. As per section "Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or
breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such
person or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves
Physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.” The act of the

accused shows that he sexually assaulted the victim girl.

46 Sections 29 and 30 of the POCSO Act are important. Section 29 of the Act deals with
mandatory presumption against the person prosecuted for committing or abetting or
attempting to commit any offence punishable under section 3, 5, 7 and 9 of the Act that
such person committed or abetted or attempted to commit that offence. Likewise section

30 of the Act deals with the presumption of culpable mental state of the accused.

47 The presumption means “to believe or accept upon probable evidence” (State of
Maharastra vs. Som Nath Thapa (1996) 4 SCC 639). The expression ‘shall presume’
leaves no discretion with the Court and there is legislative command to it to raise a
presumption and regard such fact as proved unless and until it disproved. However, it is

rebuttable and cannot be held to be synonymous with ‘conclusive proof.’

48 In the case in hand, a girl of class VII went to wash room to response her nature’s call.
The accused who was engaged by the school authority to repair bathroom pipes
removed her cloths and indecently behaved with her. The accused has not taken any
specific plea in his defence. There was no enmity between the accused and the family of
the victim girl. So, question of implicating him falsely by the complainant does not

arise.

49 In view of the above discussion and observation it is concluded that the prosecution is
able to establish the requirements of the penal provisions under sections 354-B IPC and
section 8 of the POCSO Act.

50 Though the charges under section 354-B IPC and section 8 of POCSO Act have not been
framed; but the prosecution is able to establish the charges against the accused under
said sections beyond all reasonable doubts. There is no bar in holding the accused is
guilty under section 354-B IPC instead of section 376 IPC and section 8 of POCSO Act
instead of section 4 of POCSO Act vide provision of section 222 (2) Cr. P. C.

19
51 Hence, it is held that the prosecution is able to establish the charges against the accused
under section 354-B IPC and section 8 of the POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubt
and accordingly the accused is held guilty under said sections and he is convicted

accordingly.

52 The accused/convict is a person of 55 years old and the victim girl is just like his
daughter. The act of the accused gave her mental shock. It is the high time to protect
the children from such person. Considering the nature of the case and its mode of
execution I find no justifiable ground to extend the benefit of Probation of Offenders Act

to the accused/convict.

53 Heard accused/convict on quantum of sentence.

54 Also heard learned counsels appearing for the parties.

55 Accused/convict has stated that this was his first offence. He is the only earning
members of his family. His family will suffer a lot if he is heavily punished. So, has

prayed to excuse him and he will not repeat such type of offence in future.

56 Learned counsel for the prosecution has submitted that the accused/convict should be

given adequate punishment so that it becomes an example for the wrongdoer.

57 On the other hand learned counsel for the defence has submitted that the prosecution
has failed to show any criminal antecedent of the accused; so, has prayed to deal with

him leniently considering his family burden.

58 Prescribed punishment under section 354-B IPC is imprisonment of either description for
a term which shall not be less than three years but which may extend to seven years,

and shall also be liable to fine.

59 Prescribed punishment under section 8 of the POCSO Act is imprisonment of either
description for a term which shall not be less than three years but which may extend to

five years, and shall also be liable to fine.

60 The accused/convict is a person of 55 years and the victim girl is just like his daughter.
His criminal act does not deserve any kind of mercy. So, it is decided to impose following

punishment.

20
ORDER

 

61 The prosecution is able to establish the charges against the accused Nibash Chandra
Bhakat under section 354-B IPC and section 8 of POCSO Act beyond all reasonable

doubts and accordingly he is found guilty and convicted under said sections.

62 The accused/convict is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 7 (seven) years
and also pay fine of Rs. 5,000/ (rupees five thousand) in default rigorous imprisonment
for 2 (two) months under section 354-B IPC.

63 The accused/convict is further sentenced to go rigorous imprisonment for 5 (five) years
and also pay fine of Rs. 3,000/ (rupees three thousand) in default rigorous imprisonment
for 1 (one) month under section 8 of POCSO Act.

64 Both the sentences will run concurrently.

65 Fine amount, if realized, shall be given to the victim as compensation.

66 The period underwent during investigation and trial shall be set off as per law.

67 Return the seized birth certificate to the mother of the victim girl after expiry of appeal

period.

68 Furnish a free certified copy of the judgment and order to the accused/convict as per
provision of law forthwith.

69 Furnish another copy of judgment and order to the District Magistrate, Dhubri for

information and necessary action, if any, from his side.

Victim compensation.

70 The victim girl who was a minor girl at the time of incident and a student of class VII
faced such a situation which cannot be explained and I am of the view that the victim

girl is entitled to get compensation under section 357-A Cr. P. C.

71 So, District Legal Services Authority, Dhubri is asked to determine appropriate amount of
compensation to the victim girl as per victim compensation scheme and pay the same as

early as possible.

21
72 The bench assistant is directed to provide the name of the victim girl, her mother’s name
and address to the Secretary DLSA, Dhubri in a sealed envelope so that DLSA, Dhubri

can communicate with the victim or her legal guardian.

73 Send a copy of this judgment and order to the Secretary DLSA, Dhubri for information

and necessary action.

74 Given under my hand and seal of this Court this the 24"" day of April 2019.

(D. Thakuria)
Special Judge, Dhubri.

Dobe
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: DHUBRI.

SPECIAL CASE NO: 19/2018
UNDER SECTIONS: 376 IPC READ WITH SECTIOM 4 OF THE POCSO ACT.

STATE OF ASSAM

VS.

NIBASH CHANDRA BHAKAT

A. Prosecution exhibits:
Ext. 1
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.

CON DH BR WW DN

B. Defence Exhibits :

C. Court Exhibits

Ext. I
Ext. IT

D. Prosecution Witnesses:

APPENDIX

Radiological report.

X-ray plate.

Medical report.

Ejahar.

Statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr. P. C.
Seizure list.

Sketch map of place of occurrence.

Charge sheet.

Nil.

Medico Legal Register of Halakura CHC.

Prescription issued to victim.

P. W. 1: Dr. Mahammad Laskar Ali,
P.W.2: Dr. Muskura Ahmed,

P. W.3: Complainant,
P. W.4: Victim,
P.W.5: Basanti Sarkar,
P.W.6: Anjali Ray,

20
P.W.7: Jadu Nath Bhakat &
P.W.8: Satin Singha.

E. Defence Witness: Nil.
F. Court Witness
C. W. 1: Mintan Ch. Pradhani,

C. W. 2: Dr. Asmat Ali Sheikh &
C. W. 3: K. Borah.

(D. Thakuria )
Special Judge, Dhubri.

24
