Page|1

Before The Special Sessions Judge,

Cachar _at Silchar.

 

Present : Dr. M. Baruah, A.J.S
Spl. Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

Special (POCSO) Case No. 25 / 2018
u/s 366(A)/34 of IPC r/w Sec.4 of the POCSO Act.
The State of Assam

-Versus-
1. Bahar Uddin Mazumder
2.Siparul Haque Mazumder
beseeeeeees accused persons.

Date of evidence : 10.8.18
Date of argument : 24.8.18.
Date of judgment : 6.9.18.
Appearance:-
For the Prosecution: Miss. B. Acharjee, Id. Spl. P.P.

For the Defence : Mr. A.H. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.
Page |2

JUDGMENT

1. The brief facts of the prosecution case is that the
complainant Ashbarun Nessa lodge an ejahar before the O.C.,
Jirighat P.S against the present accused persons alleging that on
14.10.16 at night the accused No.1- Siparul Haque Mazumder
came to the house of the informant and in the late night the FIR
named accused persons kidnapped/abducted her minor daughter
(referred as Victim) and the accused person committed rape upon

the victim and hence this case was filed.

2. On receipt of complaint, the police registered a case being
Jirighat P.S Case No. 64/16 u/s 366(A)/34 of the IPC. After the
investigation was completed, a charge sheet was filed against the
present accused person namely, Bahar Uddin Mazumder u/s
366(A) of the IPC and u/s 366(A)/ of the IPC r/w sec.4 of the
POCSO Act against accused Siparul Haque Mazumder showing him
as an absconder. The other FIR named accused person namely,

Nur Ahmed Laskar is not sent up to face the trial.

3. The Ld. C J M, Silchar. Cachar committed the case to the
Court of Hon’ble Sessions Judge, Silchar and thereafter this case
was transferred to this Court for disposal. The accused persons

appeared before this Court. After hearing the prosecution and the
Page |3

defense counsel, charges u/s 366(A)/34 of the IPC was framed
against accused Bahar Uddin Mazumder and charges u/s
366(A)/34 of the IPC r/w Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act against
accused Siparul Hoaugq Mazumder and the contents of the
respective charges were read over and explained to the accused
persons to which the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to
be tried.

4. During trial the prosecution examined two witnesses i.e.
the informant and the victim of this case (i.e. the P.W.1 & the
P.W.2) and in view of the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses the
statement of accused persons u/s 313 of Cr. P.C are dispensed
with as nothing incriminating materials against the accused
persons has come out in their evidence. Heard argument of Ld.
Spl. P. P and the defense counsel and perused the materials on

record.
5. Points for determination

(i) Whether on or about the 14.10.16 at night at
Diglang(Forest village) under Jirighat P.S the accused persons
kidnapped/abducted the daughter of the informant with intent
that she may be compelled or Knowing it to be likely that she will
be compelled to marry any person against her will or in order that

she may be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, as alleged?
Page |4

(ii) Whether on the same date, time and place the
accused person namely, Siparul Hoauq Mazumder committed rape

upon the victim, as alleged ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS:-

 

6. In this case the Prosecution examined only two witnesses

i.e. the victim and the informant of this case .

7s The victim Musstt. Abjana Begum @ Bappi as the P.W.1 and
she has stated that she was having love affair with the accused
Siparul Haque since 4-5 years ago prior to the occurrence of the
incident. About two years ago she eloped with the accused for
which her mother lodged the ejahar after about 5 days she
returned home. She further stated that she studied up to Class-III
and dropped out from school about 10 years ago from the date
of occurrence and presently she got married with the accused and
stayed with him as his wife . During cross-examination she stated
that out of misunderstanding her mother lodged the ejahar and
she was 21 years of age. She denied that the accused had forcibly

kidnapped her and raped her.

8. | The informant- Asmarun Nessa deposed as the P.W.2 . In
her evidence she stated that about 2 years ago her daughter i.e.
the victim was missing from her house and after about 15-16 days
she came to know that her daughter was staying with the acused

in his house. Her daughter was recovered by the police. She
Page |5

further stated that her daughter was studying in Class-IV and
discontinued her study about 10-12 years ago. During cross-
examination she stated that the age of her daughter was 21 years
at the time of occurrence and accused did not kidnap or commit

rape on her daughter.

9. Thus, from the evidence of victim and the informant, it is
found that none of them implicated the accused persons for the
offence of kidnapping or committing rape upon the victim . The
police did not collect the birth certificate of the victim from the
school . Since, there is no exclusive proof of age of the victim ,
therefore, she cannot be considered as a minor at the time of
alleged occurrence. On the other hand, the victim herself and
the informant i.e. her mother stated that the victim was 21 years
of age at the time of occurrence . The victim admitted to have
had love affairs with the accused Siparul Haque. There is no
evidence of kidnapping or having forceful sexual relation with the

victim.

10. In view of the discussion made above, I found that the
prosecution side failed to prove the alleged offence u/s 366(A)/34
of the IPC r/w sec. 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused
persons beyond reasonable doubt.

ORDER
11. Considering the materials available on record, I found

that the prosecution has failed to prove the alleged offence u/s
Page |6

366(A)/34 of the IPC r/w sec. 4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused persons beyond reasonable doubt. As a result, the
accused persons namely, Bahar Uddin Mazumder and Siparul
Haque Mazumder are acquitted and set them at liberty forthwith.
12. The bail bonds of the aforesaid accused persons shall
remain in force for the next six months.

Set my hand and seal of this case on the 6" day of
Sept/ 2018.

( Dr. M Baruah),
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

Dictated & corrected by me ;

Special Judge, Cachar, Silchar

Transcribed by-
Sahid Ahmed Laskar,
Stenographer
