oe Proceeding

   

SESSIONS CASE NO. 02/2019

 

Order or other proceeding

Office action
Signature | takenon
of Court order with
date and
dated

signature of
pleaders of

parties when
necessary

 

 

 

 

   

31.10.2019

Accused person namely — Babul
Laskar is present along with his Ld. Counsel,
Shri. A. A. Laskar. E

The Judgment is delivered and
pronounced in the open Court today and a
separate copy of Judgment is tagged with the
case record.

I hold that the prosecution has
failed to establish the prosecution case beyond
reasonable doubt and accordingly accused
person namely — Babul Laskar is acquitted and
set at liberty forthwith.

A copy of the Judgment be sent to
the District Magistrate U/S 365.

Bail bond of the accused shall remain
in force for the next 6 (six) months u/s 437(A)
Cr. PG;
The Sessions Case No. 02/2019 is

disposed of on contest.

 

 

 

 

 
3 Sessions case No. 02/2019

 

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE ::::: DIMA HASAO, HAFLONG.

SESSIONS CASE NO. 02/2019

(Under Section 354 of IPC R/W Section 8 of the POCSO Act)

The State of Assam

 

-Vs me
Babul Laskar
ee ee accused,
PRESENT:- Shri. Abhijit Bhattacharyya
Sessions Judge, Dima Hasao.
COUNSELS:- Sri A. Chakravarty, Ld. PP for the State.

Shri. A. A Laskar, Ld. Advocate for the accused.

Date of Argument: 16.09.2019

Date of Judgment: 31.10.2019

 
2 Sessions case No. 02/2019

JUDGMENT

   

3 The prosecution case, in brief, is that one Shri. David
Tonsing, lodged an FIR before the OC, Haflong Police Station on 19.12.2018
at about 3:45 pm to the effect that the accused Babul Laskar had molested
his daughter (victim) aged about 15 years on 19.12.2018 at about 3:00 pm.
In the aforesaid FIR, it was alleged that the informant and his daughter
visited the shoe shop owned by the accused at Haflong Bazar. As his
daughter was searching for her likings at the shop of the accused, the
informant went out to a nearby shop leaving his daughter alone with the shop
keeper. Suddenly the informant heard his daughter crying and he ran towards
her. Then the informant’s daughter told him that the shop keeper had
touched her buttocks and other private parts.

After receipt of the above FIR a case was registered vide
Haflong PS case No. 94/2018 U/S 354 of IPC R/W section 8 of the POCSO Act.
During the course of investigation, based on the statement of the informant
and the victim, the accused was arrested. The statement of the victim was
also recorded u/s 164 of Cr. PC. On completion of investigation, the I.O filed
chargesheet against accused Babul Laskar U/S 354 of IPC R/W section 8 of
the POCSO Act.

My predecessor in office framed charges u/s 354 IPC R/W
section 8 of POCSO Act against the accused. Those charges had been read
over, interpreted and explained to the accused to which the accused pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried. The Prosecution examined as many as 7
(seven) witnesses including the M.O and the I.0. The accused was generally
examined on the circumstances coming up in the evidence of the PWs. The
accused pleaded total denial and stated that he had been falsely implicated in

the case.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

 
 
 

1. Whether the accused person namely, Babul Laskar assaulted or used

criminal force upon the victim/ Prosecutrix intending to outrage or
3 Sessions case No. 02/2019

   
 

knowing it to be likely to outrage her modesty and thereby committed
a the offence u/s 354 of IPC?

Cy 2. Whether the accused Babul Laskar with sexual intent touched the
. buttocks and other private parts of the victim/ prosecutrix and thereby
committed the offence of sexual assault under section 8 of the POCSO
Act?

DISCUSSION ON THE POINT FOR DETERMINATION AND THE
DECISION ARRIVED THEREON WITH REASONS:

PW — 1 is the Prosecutrix aged about 15 years. During
her deposition in court PW-1 stated thatshe had appeared in HSLC
Examination in the year 2019. She stated that on 19.12.2018 she had gone
to the shop of the accused accompanied by her father to buy a pair of shoes
and when she was searching for shoes her father had gone out of the shop.
She also stated that she had given her statement before the Magistrate u/s
164 of Cr. PC. She stated that in the said statement, she had said that the
accused Babul Laskar had touched her buttocks and other private parts.
Though at first she thought that it was accidental but when the accused
repeated his act the Prosecutrix cried and called her father. PW — 1 had
proved her statement given before the Magistrate u/s 164 Cr. PC as Ext — 2.
However, PW — 1 stated that she had given the statement out of prejudice
against the shop keeper against whom she had a clash.

During her cross examination PW — 1 stated that she had
a heated altercation with the accused shopkeeper while bargaining the price
for a pair of shoes that she had intended to purchase. She stated that the
shopkeeper in this connection had rebuked her for which she got offended
and started crying. She also looked for her father who was standing by at a

distance of around 10 metres at a nearby shop. PW — 1 told her father that

   
  

the shopkeeper is not a good person because he scolded her badly. PW — 1
further stated that she did not know why her father had filed the case. She
fated that she did not remember what she had stated before the Magistrate.
She further stated that the statement before the Magistrate that the accused

Babul Laskar had touched her private parts and her buttocks was not true.
 
 
 

  

   
 

knew the accused who has_ a shoe shop. He stated that on the date of
occurrence he had gone with his daughter to the shop of the accused to buy
a pair of shoes for his daughter. He also stated that he lodged the FIR
Ext — 1. Thereafter the said PW — 2 was declared hostile.

During his cross examination PW — 2 stated that he did
not know who had drafted the FIR nor the contents thereof. He stated that he
was outside the shop and was at a distance of 10 metres away from the shop
of the accused Babul Laskar. PW — 2 categorically stated that his daughter
(Prosecutrix) did not tell him about the accused Babul Laskar touching her
private parts and her buttocks. He also stated that he did not tell any of the
nearby shopkeepers regarding the alleged occurrence. He also admitted that
he did not see the incident.

PW —3 is Shri. Tinku Nath who is a business man
having a shop adjacent to the shop of the accused. PW — 3 stated that he
knows the accused Babul Laskar who has a shop adjacent to his shop. He
stated before the Police that he was not aware of any incident that had taken
place inside the shop of the accused. This witness was declared hostile by the
Prosecution.

Both PW — 4 Biswaranjan Ghosh and PW — 5 Uttam Roy
have shops adjacent to the shop of the accused. However both these
witnesses stated that they had not seen the incident. The counsel for the
defence declined to cross examine both these witnesses.

PW — 6 is Dr. Mousumee Bhattachejee working as
Senior M&HO at Haflong Civil Hospital. PW — 6 has proved her report as
Ext — 4 and had opined that no abnormalities were seen at the time of the
examination of the victim/ Prosecutrix.

PW — 7 is Shri. Ramesh Rajiyungsa, Inspector of Police
who was the I.O of the case. Amongst others PW — 7 stated that he
investigated Haflong PS Case No. 94/2018 on being entrusted by the OC

Sessions case No. 02/2019
     
  
 
 
 
  
  

Sessions case No. 02/2019

Haflong PS. On completion of investigation PW — 7 filed charge sheet Ext — 5
against accused Babul Laskar.

During his short cross examination PW — 7 stated that
ere were no eye witnesses apart from the victim / Prosecutrix. He denied
e e suggestion that he did not carry out the investigation properly and that
, S there was no material u/s 354 IPC R/W section 8 of POCSO Act.

In the instant case out of 7 (seven) prosecution
witnesses, PW — 6 is the medical officer whereas PW - 7 is the investigating
officer. Out of the remaining five witnesses PW — 2, PW — 3, PW - 4 and
PW — 5 did not state anything incriminating against the accused Babul Laskar.
Therefore the evidence of PW — 1 (victim/ Prosecutrix) is very important.

I have carefully gone through the evidence of PW — 1. However
a close and careful scrutiny of the evidence of PW — 1 would reveal that even
during her examination in chief, she stated that she had given her statement
before the Magistrate under section 164 of Cr. PC out of prejudice against the
accused Babul Laskar with whom she had a clash. Moreover, during her cross
examination, she stated that she had a heated altercation with the accused
while bargaining for a pair of shoes. She also stated that she cried as the
shop keeper had rebuked her for which she got offended. PW — 1 also stated
that she told her father that the shopkeeper was not a good person as he
scolded her badly. She also stated that she did not know why her father had
filed the case/ FIR. Further, PW — 1 categorically stated that the statement
made before the Magistrate that the accused had touched her private parts
and her buttocks was not true.

The above is the threadbare discussion of the prosecution
evidence on record.

I have gone through the entire case record including the

evidence. I have also heard Ld. PP, Dima Hasao as well as Ld. Counsel for the

   
 
 
 

accused.
In a criminal trial the prosecution has to prove its case

feyond reasonable doubt. However, from the above discussion I have come
6 Sessions case No. 02/2019

   
 

to the conclusion and finding that the prosecution has failed to bring home
the charges against the accused Babul Laskar beyond reasonable doubt.

In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the
case, the accused Babul Laskar is acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.

A copy of the Judgment be sent to the District
Magistrate U/S 365 of Cr. PC.

Bail bond of accused shall remain in force for the next 6
(six) months u/s 437(A) Cr. PC.
Given under my hand on this 31t day of October, 2019.

    

Sessions Judge,

Dima Hasao.
7 Sessions case No. 02/2019

APPENDIX:-

 

PROSECUTION WITNESSES :-

PW — 1 Prosecutrix

PW — 2 Shri. David Tonsing

PW — 3 Shri. Tinku Nath

PW — 4 Shri. Biswaranjan Ghosh

PW — 5 Shri. Uttam Roy

PW — 6 Dr. Mousumee Bhattacharjee

PW —7 Shri. Romesh Rajiyungsa, Inspector of Police

NOMARWNe

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :

 

. Ext>= 1 FIR

_ Ext — 2 Statement of the Prosecutrix u/s 164 Cr. PC.
. Ext -— 3 Sketch Map

Ext — 4 Medical Report

. Ext — 5 Chargesheet

mBWNE

 
  

Sessions
Dima Hasao.

J
