Pagel

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 79 of 2018
Under section 8 of POCSO Act of IPC.
(Arising out of Tezpur PS Case No. 1825/18)

State of Assam

—Vs—
Sri Gautam Upadhaya ves Accused Person

Present : Smti. I. Barman,AJS;
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State :  Mr.M.C. Baruah,
Special\Public Prosecutor

For the accused : “Mr. B. Borah , Advocate
Date of Argument : 14-08-2019
Date of Judgment : 17-08 -2019.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case against the accused person as projected in the

FIR (Ext. 1), in brief, is that on 05-07-2016, when the victim aged about 14
years, was at home with her brother, her uncle Gautam Upadhaya enterd into
their rented house and taking advantage of absence of her parents coming
close to her asked her to kiss him on his lips. Then on being asking the
accused for telling to do such thing, he came more close to her. Being scared
to avoid him when she went to another room, the accused following her

caught hold her hand and tried to kiss her. Then on raising alarm, the accused

 
Page 2

ran away. It is further alleged that accused also threatened her not to disclose

the incident to others.

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.1) on 02-09-2018 from the victim (PW 2),
Tezpur P.S. Case No. 1825/2018 u/s 8 of POCSO Act was registered and
launched investigation of the case. During investigation, the Investigating
Officer recorded the statement of the witnesses, got recorded the statement
of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation having found
materials, laid chargesheet against the accused Gautam Upadhaya u/s 8 of
POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of the accused person before this Court, after
furnishing the copies of the documents as required u/s 207 of Cr.P.C. and
having heard both parties, charge u/s 8 of POCSO.Act was framed against the
accused and particulars of the charge on being,read over and explained to the

accused person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.

4. To substantiate the «Case, prosecution examined as many as 4
witnesses. On closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of the accused
was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the accused denied all the incriminating
evidence and stated that asa relative he visited the house of the victim as
usual without any bad.intention but seeing him she shouted.

5. I.have.heard the argument of the learned counsel of both sides and

also have.gone through the materials on record.
6. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) " Whether the accused Sri Gautam Upadhaya on 05-07-
2016 at village Rowmari under Tezpur Police Station committed
sexual assault on the victim Miss "X°, a minor girl aged about
14 years, and thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 8 of POCSO Act?

 
Page 3

7. Mr. M. Baruah, the learned Special Public Prosecutor has submitted
that the materials on record particularly the evidence of the female child

victim undoubtedly project a case of sexual assault on the girl.

8. Refuting the said argument, Mr. Borah the learned counsel appearing
for the accused person has submitted that the delay in lodging the FIR
coupled with the evidence of the victim, it cannot be inferred that a case of

sexual assault or any case of sexual offence has been made out.
Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

9. In order to appreciate the argument advanced, on. behalf o both

sides, it is considered next to outline a sketch of the evidence on record.

10. PW 1 is the mother of the victim. She deposed that on 05-07-2016,
at around 2/2.30 p.m. she went to hospitah.with her mother when her victim
daughter and son were at home and at around 5 p.m. when she returned
home, the victim told her that. her »husband’s cousin brother Gautam
Upadhaya coming to their house, came close to her and sat near her on the
sofa where she was sitting. Then.she feeling uneasy went away from the sofa

and thereafter, the accusedalso left her house.

During.cross.she stated that actually the accused did nothing to her

daughter and. after two years, the case was filed by her victim daughter.

11. PW 2 the victim testified that on the day of incident in the month of
July, 2016, in the morning time, when she along with her younger brother
were at home, accused Gautam Upadhaya came to their house and sat beside
her in a sofa. As she felt uncomfortable, she went to the next room but the
accused followed her. Then feeling embrrassing, she shouted on which the
accused fled away. When her mother returned home, she reported the
incident. She proved the FIR as Ext. 1 and her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as
Ext. 2.

12. PW 3, the father of the victim stated that after one and half month

of the incident, his wife reported him that one day when the accused Gautam

 
Page 4

Upadhaya came to his house, their daughter shouted. He further stated that

sometimes the accused visited his house.

13. PW 4, the landlord of the victim’s father deposed that one day at
around 1.30/2 p.m. when she was drying clothes in the back side of her
house, she heard voice of the victim saying that she did not like those. As at
that time the parents of the victim were not at home, thinking that victim
picked up quarrel with her brother, she proceeded towards the rented house
of PW 3 and at that time she had seen the back side of a boy in the gate
going out from their premises. Lateron, victim’s mother told her that accused

Gautam Upadhaya misbehaved the victim girl.

During cross she stated that she had not seen the incident and as
she had seen only the back side of the boyxgoing out from the premises,

hence, she could not recognise him.

14. In the case the evidence of the victim’s father reveals that the
accused is his cousin brother and sometimes the accused visited his house.
The evidence of victim around whose revolves the whole prosecution story,
reveals that on the day of incident the accused came to her house when her
parents were not at home but her brother was present. The accused entering
into her house ‘sat.beside her on the sofa where she was sitting, but then she
being no ease.proceeded to another room of the house. The accused also
followed™her.. At this she feeling uncomfortable, when raised alarm, the
accused left the place. There is no iota of evidence that the accused touched
any.part of her body or did any act with sexual intent. There is also no any
evidence that the accused utter any word or gesture with sexual intention or
did any act to come within the purview of sexual harassment. The evidence of
the victim herself does not disclose any sort of sexual assault or sexual
harassment on the victim girl. She herself stated that the accused did nothing
except what she deposed before the court. The parents of the victim also
remained silent regarding any act of sexual assault or sexual harassment on
the victim girl. The victim only felt uneasy when the accused sat beside her in
the sofa. As a relative he visited her house as earlier and set beside her. He

did not came into physical contact with her. Moreover, the FIR itself reflects

 
Page 5

that incident occurred on 05-07-2016 whereas the FIR was lodged on 02-09-
2018 i.e. after two years without explaining the inordinate delay in filing the

FIR. This long delay creates doubt about the veracity of prosecution version.

15. Considering the evidence of prosecution witnesses in_ totality
particularly the evidence of the victim who is the most vital witness in this
case and other surrounding circumstances as discussed above, it is clear that
the allegation against the accused Gautam Upadhaya has not been
established beyond all reasonable doubt and the accused is entitled to benefit
of doubt.

16. Accordingly, accused Gautam Upadhaya isvacquitted’ on benefit of
doubt from the charge u/s 8 of POCSO Act and.set.him_at liberty forthwith.

His bail bond shall remain in force till next six months.

17. Judgement is pronounced and delivered’ in open court under the Seal
and signature of this Court on the 17" day of August, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Page 6

Prosecution witnesses.

1. PW 1 : mother of the victim

2. PW 2 : victim

3. PW 3 : father of the victim

4. PW 4 : Smti Touram Upadhyaya.
Exhibits.
Ext. 1 : FIR
Ext. 2 : 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim

(I.Barman)

Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
