ll eCourtIS copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC)::KOKRAJHAR
Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy, AJS

SPECIAL CASE NO.23/2019
Section 450/376 of IPC R/W- Sec. 4
of the POCSO Act, 2012.

STATE OF ASSAM
Vs

Sri Abdul Basit @ Sahinur
S/o- Sirajul Hoque

Vill- Asharikandi Pt-III

P.S. Gauripur, Dist.- Kokrajhar

becuase Accused person.

Appearance: -

Learned Counsel for the State Sri Manjit Ghosh, Special P.P
Learned Counsel for the defence Sri A.K. Miah, Advocate

Charge framed on 31.05.2019

Evidence recorded on 4.6.2019, 12.7.2019,19.8.2019.
Argument heard on 27.09.2019

Judgment pronounced on 30.09.2019

UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that on 20.04.2019 one Sri Simon
Hasda, lodged a written FIR at Tipkai Police out-post alleging that on
19.4.2019, accused Abdul Basit @ Sahinur has been carrying raw
materials for the construction of a mobile tower in their village. The
informant also alleged that on 19.4.2019, accused Abdul Basit @
Sahinur entered into the residence of his grandchild and committed
rape on her and when the victim raised a hue and cry, the

neighbouring people gathered and apprehended the accused.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
2 eCourtIS copy

2. On receipt of the FIR, it was sent to Bagribari Police station for
registration of a case and accordingly a case under Section 448/376
IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act was registered and
investigated. After completion of the investigation, a charge sheet
was laid against the accused Abdul Basit @ Sahinur for commission
of offences under Section 448 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO
Act. .

3. The accused person was in custody. On his production, copies of the
relevant documents were furnished to him and after hearing both
the side charges under Section 450/376 IPC read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act were framed against him to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed trial. During the pendency of trial, the case was
transferred to this Court for disposal.

4. In the course of trial, prosecution examined 6 witnesses. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, accused was examined under
Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and the
accused declined to adduce any evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-
a. Whether the accused committed sexual intercourse
with the victim, a child?
DECISION WITH REASONS: -
6. Pw 1 is the victim of this case. She deposed that accused had
come to their residence seeking water. At that time some villagers
gathered and became very angry seeing the accused in our
residence and they started beating her, her mother and her father.

7. Since the victim resiled from her statement under Section 164

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
CrPC, learned Special P.P declared the witness as hostile and sought
leave to cross-examine the witness and accordingly cross
examination was allowed. In cross-examination by prosecutor, the
victim admitted that accused had come to their residence for
drinking alchohol. She also admitted that accused had entered into
her room for drinking water. Pw 1 also admitted that she had stated
before the Magistrate that accused had sexual intercourse with her.
8. In cross-examination by the defence, the victim however,
stated that accused did not have any sexual intercourse with her
and that she gave the statement under fear and as tutored by the
people.

9. Pw 2 Hopna Tudu deposed that on the day of occurrence while
along with Sankar were returning from a function he heard noise
coming from the residence of Sagram Hasda, the father of the
victim. When he approached the house and peeped through a hole,
he saw the accused having sexual intercourse with the victim.
Accused opened the door and wanted to run away but he and
Sankar Hasda apprehended the accused and informed _ the
Gaonburah.

10. In cross-examination, pw 2 denied the suggestion he has
deposed falsely.

11. Pw 3 Sankar Hembrom also deposed in the lines of pw 2 that
he had seen the accused committing sexual intercourse with the
victim.

12. Pw 4 Simon Hasda is the informant. He deposed that he is a

Gaonburah. He deposed that some villagers came to his house and

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.

eCourtIS copy
informed that accused has been found sleeping with the victim. He
lodged an FIR in this regard.

13. In cross examination, he deposed that he lodged the FIR as
per the instruction of the villagers. He also deposed that he had not
talked to the victim before lodging the FIR.

14. Pw 5 xxx is the mother of the victim. She deposed that
accused had come to their residence and while he was having some
food, some villagers came and apprehended the accused.

15. Since pw 5 resiled from her statement under Section 161
CrPC, learned Special P.P declared the witness as hostile and sought
leave to cross-examine the witness and accordingly cross
examination was allowed. In cross-examination by prosecutor, pw 5
deposed that she has settled the dispute with the accused and the
villagers had settled the matter. She denied the suggestions with
respect to the statements given to police.

16. In cross-examination by the defence pw 5 stated that villagers
had beaten her on the ground as to why a person of different
community has been allowed an entry in our house. She deposed
that accused had no conversation with her daughter and that the
accused is innocent.

17. Pw 6 is the Investigating Officer and he deposed to about the
steps taken during investigation.

18. The principal prosecution witnesses, namely, the victim and
her mother have not supported the prosecution case. They have
categorically stated that accused had come to their residence only

to drink water and nothing else. Seen from the perspective of the

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.

eCourtIS copy
evidence of pw 1 and pw 5, no case has been made out for
sustaining conviction of the accused for the offences charged with.
19. There are two witnesses, namely Pw 2 Hopna Tudu and Pw 3
Sankar Hembrom who deposed that they are witnesses to the fact
that accused was seen by them while committing sexual intercourse
with the victim.

20. Thus, there are two version of the prosecution case, one
version as deposed to by the alleged victim and her mother, and the
other by pw 2 and pw 3. In my opinion when the victim herself
deposes that accused did not have any sexual intercourse with her,
such evidence being corroborated by her mother, the evidence of pw
1 and pw 5 will get precedence over the evidence of pw 2 and pw 3.
In any view of the matter a doubt is created whether the accused
committed sexual intercourse with the victim or not. When such a
doubt exists in view of two contradictory version of the prosecution,

the benefit of such doubt has to go the accused.

21. In the result, the point for determination is answered in
negative.
22. In the facts and circumstances of this case, | believe the

victim of this case is in need of care and protection. Hence, let a
copy of this judgment be sent to Child Welfare Committee,

Kokrajhar, for taking necessary steps for the welfare of the child.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.

eCourtIS copy
6 eCourtIS copy

ORDER

Accused Abdul Basit @ Sahinur is acquitted of the charges
under Section Section 450/376 IPC read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court.

Dictated and Corrected by:-

Addl. Special Judge ( FTC) Addl. Special Judge ( FTC)
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
A. Prosecution Witness

B. Defence Witness

C. Prosecution Exhibits

vii)

PW1
Pw2
Pw3
Pw4
PW5

PW6

Exhibit No-1
Exhibit No-2
Exhibit No-3
Exhibit No-4
Exhibit No-5
Exhibit No-6

Exhibit No-7

D. Material Exhibit

i)

M. Exhibit No-1

7 eCourtIS copy

APPENDIX

Xxx victim

Hopna Tudu
Sankar Hembrom
Simon Hasda
Muni Mardi

ASI Angaraj Chetry

Nil

Statement U/S-164 CrPC of PW1
Statement U/S-164 CrPC of PW2
Statement U/S-164 CrPC of PW3
FIR.

Seizure List

Seizure List.

Sketch Map.

Birth Certificate.

Addl. Special Judge ( FTC)
Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
