IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE : : TINSUKIA

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,
Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 3 (T) of 2015
U/s.448/354 of I.P.C., r/w Sec.8 of POCSO Act.

The State Of ASSAM ........ccccccccecsecesstteeeeeseeeesseseeeesssseeeesnseeessssteetaaeess Complainant
- Versus —

Sri Dipak Biswas,

S/o Late Digendra Biswas,

R/o Bashbari, Hijuguri, P.S. Tinsukia,

District: TinSUkia (ASSAM).........::cccscccceeessceeeeeeeecsseecsteeeseeseesssneennas Accused

Appearance:

Sri A. Hatikakaty,

Addl. Public ProSecutor............cccccccccseseeeeeees For the State
Smti N. Kalita,

ACVOCAtE.......0.ccccccccccccseeeeeeeeueeueausssnecseseeeaees For the Accused
Date of Argument: 19.06.2017

Date of Judgment: 19.06.2017

JUDGMENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. The prosecution case against the accused lies within a short campus.
On the day of occurrence, the victim was alone in her house and the accused
came to her house and wanted a glass of water. When the girl gave him a

glass of water, the accused squeezed her breasts.
2. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

The points for determination in this case are —

(i) Whether the accused had committed criminal trespass into the
house of the victim and thereby committed an offence u/s.448
I.P.C.?

(ii) Whether the accused had committed sexual assault upon the
victim girl and thereby committed an offence u/s.354 I.P.C.,
r/w Sec.8 of POCSO Act?

3. DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

In this case, the victim girl was aged about 17 years, when she
tendered evidence on 5.11.16. She has supported the prosecution case
against the accused in her evidence. The mother of the victim (PW3) has
stated in her evidence that on 5.11.16 her daughter was aged about 17

years.

4. In this case, Id. counsel has pointed out that in a case under POCSO
Act, it is the duty of the prosecution to prove that the victim was a child,
below 18 years of age on the day of occurrence. Ld. counsel has also
submitted that the victim was not examined by doctor during the period of
investigation, nor any school certificate available in the record to prove the

age of the victim girl.

5. On this, I have decided to agree with Id. counsel for the accused.
POCSO Act is a Special Act having stringent punishment. It is a well settled
principle of law that stricter is the law, higher is the degree of proof.
Therefore, in this case, prosecution has miserably failed to prove the age of
the victim girl on the day of occurrence, which allegedly took place on
6.2.2015.

6. Under the aforesaid circumstances, I hereby hold that the prosecution
has failed to prove that the victim was a minor, below 18 years of age on the
day of occurrence and therefore, failed to prove the offences against the

accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
O R D E R

7. That being the position, accused Dipak Biswas _ is found not guilty. He
is acquitted from this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 19" day of
June, 2017.
Dictated & corrected by me.

(P.J. Saikia)
Special Judge Special Judge
Tinsukia Tinsukia
A P PEN ODIJI XxX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1- Smti Ranu Rout

2 PW2 - Sri Nanhe Lal Sharma

3. PW3 - Smti Rita Sharma

4. PW4 - Smti Bandana Sharma
5. PW5 - Smti Sumita Deka (I.0.)
6. PW6 - Sri Paragjyoti Buragohain

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1  - Ejahar

2. Ext.2 - Statement of the victim u/s.164 CrPC

Be Ext.3 - Charge-sheet

4. Ext.4 - Sketch map

5: Ext.5  - Statement of wit. Nanhelal Sharma u/s.161
CrPC

Special Judge
Tinsukia
