HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SESSIONS CASE

District :- Goalpara.
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, GOALPARA.

 

Present:- Sri S. Hazarika, A.J.S.
Special Judge,
Goalpara.

Spl. Case No.26/2018.
U/s.8 of the POCSO Act.

State
-VS-

1. Ashraful Hoque @ Hussain

commas Accused.
Ld. Advocates appeared:-
For the State - Sri N. K. Nath, Addl. Public prosecutor.
For the accused - Mr.M. Hoque, Advocate.
Date of evidence Ie 29/11/2018, 02/02/2019 & 27/02/2019.
Date of argument - 27/02/2019.
Date of judgment - 18/03/2019.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case appears from the F.I.R lodged by one Sahar Ali, is

that, on 05/09/2018, at around, 4:00 P.M. his minor daughter( prosecutrix ) went to fetch
cows from the field and on her away, the accused suddenly grabbed her and took her into
his house. Thereafter, the accused squeezed her breasts and tried to commit rape upon
her. The daughter of the informant raised hulla and on hearing her cries, the informant's

son came forward and at this stage, the accused fled away from the P.O.
2, On receipt of the said F.I.R. O/C of Baguan P.S. registered the present
case as Baguan P. S. Case No.104/2018 and the investigation was done. During the
course of his investigation the I/O forwarded the victim girl to the Court for recording
her statement and accordingly, her statement was recorded. The I/O examined the
witnesses. The medical examination of the victim was done. After completion of

investigation submitted Charge Sheet U/S.8 of the POCSO Act against the accused.

3. The accused faced trial and the relevant copies of documents were

furnished.

Upon hearing the submissions of both parties and after considering the
materials on record, this Court was pleased to frame charge U/S.8 of the POCSO Act
against the accused. The contents of the charge read over and explained to which the

accused pleaded not guilt and claimed to be tried.
4, POINTS FOR DETERMINATION IS :

(i) | Whether the accused on 05/09/2019, at around 4:00 in the evening
at village Chengpota committed sexual assault by touching the private of the minor girl

aged about 13 years ?

5. The prosecution side examined four witnesses including the informant and
the prosecutrix. After the evidence of the prosecution side the statement of the accused
recorded U/S.313 of Cr.P.C. Wherein he denied each and every circumstances against

him.
6. I have heard submissions advanced by learned Counsel for both parties
and also gone through the evidence on record.

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :

7. In the instant case, the prosecution side examined four witnesses. Among
the witnesses P.W.1 , Sahar Ali is the informant, P.W.2, is the mother of the proecution

P.W.3 is the prosecutrix and P.W.4 S.Ali is the son of the informant.

8. The accused allegedly committed sexual assault by touching the private

parts of the prosecutrix who is a minor girl of about 13 years.

9. The informant in the F.I.R alleged that the accused squeezed the breast of
the victim and also attempted to commit rape.

In his evidence he stated that his younger brother called him on the phone
and returned home. He was informed by others that the accused touched the breast of his
daughter. For this he lodged the F.I.R. The witnesses admittedly was not present at the
time of the incident. He also admitted in cross-examination that he has got no personal

knowledge.

10. P.W.2 similarly gave evidence . She admitted that she only heard about the
incident and she has no personal knowledge. Both the witnesses are hearsay witnesses

and they have come to know about the incident on being informed.

11. P.W.3 is the prosecutrix of the case and she is the prime witness of the

case.

In her evidence she stated that 4/5 months earlier on a Saturday at about
4:00 P.M. she was in the Field. She was talking with Ashraful and her brother, Sabir Ali

saw them. Her brother assaulted Ashraful.

12. The prosecutrix remained silent as to any act of indecency by the accused
upon her. In her evidence she admitted that her brother assaulted the accused for which
the accused lodged an F.I.R. The informant also admitted that he lodged the F.I.R. five
days after odging the F.I.R. against his son.

13. The prime witness in this case did not support the case and without her

evidence, the charge against the accused cannot be proved.

14. Lastly P.W.4 stated that on 5/5/18 at 4:30 P.M. he saw his sister having
talk with the accused. The villagers asked his father to lodge the F.I.R.

P.W.4 is the eye witness to the occurrence. He remained silent regarding

any attempt made by the accused to touch his sister, who is the victim of the incident.

15. The prosecutrix as well as her brother(P.W.4) remained silent that the
accused had touched the prosecutrix. Therefore, there is nothing to hold that the accused

had committed the alleged offence.

16. Considering the discussion above made, it appears that the prosecution

has failed to bring home the charge against the accused and therefore, the accused
deserves to be Hon'ble acquitted.

17. The accused is accordingly acquitted.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 18" day of March,
2019.

Dictated and corrected by:-

( Sri S. Hazarika, AJS,)
(Sanjay Hazarika, AJS) Special Judge, Goalpara.

Addl. Special Judge, Goalpara.

Typed by: Jajneswar Nr. Deb, Stenographer, Goalpara.
APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW1-Sahar Ali

PW?2-Abiron Nessa
PW3-Prosecutrix

PW4-Sobian Ali

DEFENCE WITNESS :-
NIL

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :-

Ext.1 —164 Statement of the prosecutrix.

DEFENCE EXHIBITS :

Nil

DEFENCE EXHIBITS :-
NIL

Spl. Case No.26/2018.

(S. Hazarika, AJS)
Special Judge,Goalpara.
