 

Page 1 of 10

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE... BUNI.

Present: N.U. Ahmed,
Addl. Special Judge,
Bijni.

_ Special (P) Case No. 6(B)/19
U/s. 376(2)(i) of the IPC R/W Sec. 6 of POCSO Act.

THE STATE OF ASSAM
VS. -

Living Marak ........, Accused.

APPEARANCE :
—— Advocate for the prosecution : Mr. P. Dev Ray, Addl. PP.

 

$

Se | Advocate for the defence : Sri Swapan Kr. Das, Ld. Legal Aid counsel.
= \Date of charge : 24.04.19
| % pate of evidence : 21.05.19, 04-06-19, 01-07-19 & 10.07.19.
cS Date of Argument : 11.09.19

\* Bl yy we Date of Judgment : 18.09.19

  
 
  

JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that 29-01-19, the informant Monju Marak lodged
an FIR with the I.C Ballamguri Police outpost alleging inter-alia that on 25-01-13 at about
6 p.m. accused took her 10 years old daughter (name withheld herein after known as
victim “X”) from road on inducement and kept her in his house and committed penetrative
sexual assault on her three times. Her daughter unable to discharge her urine on 29-01-

2019 and she asked her and she disclosed the fact to her. Hence, the present case.

V 2. On receipt of the FIR, I/C Ballamguri O.P enter the same in the General Diary as
Av) G.D. E No. 394 dated 229-01-19 and forwarded the same to O/C Bijni P.S. to register a
\ . case and the I.C himself took the charge of investigation. On received of the FIR O.C Bijni
gpecial ae P.S registered the same as Bijni P.S. Case No. 31/19, u/s 376(2)(i) of the IPC read with
section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and started investigation. After completion of investigation
1.0 submitted charge-sheet against accused Living Marak u/s 376(AB) read with section 6
adal

.

   

os
“5 \.
wZ

 

cw

ecid!
pit

wn
S
>,
a?

Page 2 of 10

of the POCSO Act, 2012. On received of the charge-sheet cognizance was taken u/s 376(i)
of the IPC read with section 6 of the POCSO Act against the accused person. The accused
was unable to engaged advocate and as such Mr. Swapan Kr. Das, Ld. Advocate is
appointed as Legal Aid Counsel to defend the case of accused. Copy of the relevant
documents furnished to the accused as per provision of sec. 207 of the Cr. P. C.

3. Heard both the sides learned Advocate on the point of framing of charge and after
perusal of case diary, case record and the documents submitted along with the charge-
sheet, charge has been framed u/s 376(2)(i) of the IPC read with section 6 of the POCSO
Act and the contents of Charge read over and explained to the accused person to which
he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During trial the prosecution examined as many as 5 witnesses including the victim
and informant. After closing the evidence of Prosecution accused was examined u/s 313
of the Cr. P. C. and recorded his statement in separate sheet attached to the case record.
The defense case was of complete denial and the defense side has not adduced any

S efense evidence.

I have heard argument put forwarded by learned Addl. P. P. and learned legal aid

counsel. I have gone through the case record as well as evidence on record.

POINT FOT DETERMINATION

6. (i) What was the age of the victim “Xx” at the time of occurrence?

(ii) Whether the accused on 25.01.19 at night at village no. 12, Natunmati
under Bijni P.S committed rape on victim “X” a minor girl aged below 16 years?

(iii) | Whether the accused on the aforesaid date, time and place, committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault on victim “x”?

:DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

i. In this case to bring home the charges the prosecution all together examined five
witnesses including the informant. Let me scrutinize the evidence on record to decide the
point.

@
al suds PW1 is the victim “X”. PW1 in her deposition has deposed that the informant is her

mother and accused Living Marak is her grandfather. She further stated that one day

evening while she was crying on the road then her grandfather Living Marak took her to
"a
eS

 

ra also assured her to give money. Thereafter, she lodged the FIR. She Prove the FIR as Ext.2
ov

a

ecial Jud victim “X” was 10 years. She proved the birth certificate of victim as material Ext.-A,

and Ext.2(1) is her signature. She further stated that at the time of occurrence the age of

spe.
addl- pin During her cross-examination, she stated that the FIR was not read Over to her.
She further stated that she has not seen that Living Marak took her daughter in his house.
She also stated that she presumed that victim “X” was sleeping along with her
Page 4 of 10

the blood smear Cloth to the police. Defence side also put Suggestion to her that she
deposed falsely, which she denied.

  

10. P.W.3, Dr. Kukumoni Basumatary, is the M.O. of this Case. P.W.3 in her deposition
Son S deposed that on 30.01.19, he was working at JSB Civil Hospital as Medical & Health
om er-1. On that day around 10,25 AM, she examined victim “xX”, in connection with Bijni

Physical Examination:

Height 126 cm, weight 22 kg, chest girth 59 cm, abdominal] girth 52 cm and teeth
6/6, 6/6. Scalp hairs present, auxiliary hairs absent, pubic hairs absent, Menarche not
attained.

Genital Examination:

Genital organs_ no abnormality detected. Vulva- no abnormality detected. Hymen-
not raptured. Vagina- no abnormality detected. Cervic-no abnormality detected. Uterus-
no abnormality detected. Evidence of venereal disease absent. Vaginal smears taken on
glass slides for laboratory investigation-not done.

Mental condition:

Memory and. intelligence intact. Co-operation and behavior Co-operative and
conscious.

X-Ray for Age Determination.

01 Right elbow epiphysis of ulnar olecranon and radial head are not fused. Epiphysis
\

Orn of medical and lateral epicondyles appeared but not fused.
& : cial Ju Right wrist- Epiphysis of lower end of radius and ulna are appeared but not fused.

adsl oF aint Epiphysis (base) of 1% metacarpal is appeared but not fused.
All carpal bones are visualized however pisiform is faintly visible.
Right shoulder-Epiphysis of acromion and glenoid are not visualized. Epiphysis of
coracoid is faintly visible. Epiphysis of humeral head and tuberosity’s are Partially fused,

 
Page 5 of 10

Conjoint epiphysis of humeral head and tuberosity’s are not fused with the shaft.
Opinion:
As per radio-logical examination the age is above 10 and below 12 years. From the
above points it could not be ascertained whether she was raped or not. She proved the
medical report as Ext.2 and Ext.2(1) is her signature,

11. P.W.4, Smt. Tupuri Roy, in her deposition has deposed that she knows the
informant, victim and the accused person. She further stated that about 3 months ago one
evening at about 5 p.m. she saw that victim “X” was crying in the courtyard. Thereafter,
she came to know from victim “Xx” that accused was took her and kept her in his house on
that night and by putting of the light committed bad things with her. Thereafter, mother
of victim “X” filed this case. She went to hospital along with mother of victim.
Sens. During her cross-examination, she stated that after 2/3 days of the incident victim
NO) \X” reported the incident to them. After the incident, 2/3 days victim “X” was working in
ot eir house and at that time she did not disclose anything. At 10 p.m. she went to bed for
o g eeping. Five persons were Staying in the house of accused. There is no door inside the
. “ oe house of accused and there is only thin wall. In the house of accused there are 3 rooms.
na BIO pre they got the information they immediately took the victim “Xx” to hospital. Defence
side put suggestion to her that accused did not took victim “X” to his house and committed
any misdeed with her which she denied. Defence side also put suggestion to her that she
in collusion with mother of “x” lodged the FIR, which she denied.

    
      

12. P.W.5, Banajit Uzir, is the I.0. of this case. PW5, in his deposition has deposed on
29.01.19, he was working at Ballamguri outpost as I.C. On that day, he had received one
FIR, from one Manju Marak. On receiving the FIR he made a.GD Entry No. 39, dated-
29.01.19 and forwarded the FIR to 0.C Bijni Police Station to register a case and he took
the charge of investigation. 0.C Bijni P.S registered the same as Bijni police station case
No. 31/19 and entrusted him for investigation. At the time of filing the FIR on the basis of
GD entry, he recorded the statement of informant and the victim girl in the out-post. The
\w" victim was produced before court to record her statement u/s 164 Cr. P. C. and Magistrate

aX recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. He sent the victim girl for medical examination to

\o ial jud84cp Civil Hospitla, Kajalgaon. He visited the place of occurrence and recorded the
addl- Saini statement of the witnesses. He drew the sketch map of the place of occurrence. he proved
the sketch map as Ext.4, Thereafter, on finding evidence against Living Marak, he arrested

the accused Living Marak and forwarded him to court. During investigation, he seized one

birth certificate of the victim girl vide Ext.3 seizer list and Ext.3(1) is his signature. He

collected the medical report of the victim girl. On 28.02.19, he had submitted charge sheet
  

Page 6 of 10

against the accused Living Marak, U/s 376(AB) of the IPC and R/W Sec. 6 of the POCSO
Act. He proved the charge sheet as Ext.5 and Ext.5(1) is his signature.

During his cross-examination, he stated that he visited the place of occurrence on
the basis of GD entry. After registration of the case he had not recorded the statement of
victim girl again. On 29.01.19, while he visited the place of occurrence. He had not
recorded the statement of the witnesses except the informant and the victim. He drew the
sketch map of the place of occurrence after registration of the case. Later on, stated that
on the basis of GD entry he prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence. He had
not put any signature in the sketch map. In the house of Living Marak one daughter of
Living Marak is living with him. He had not met daughter of the accused in the place of
occurrence in spite of several attempt. Near the place of occurrence there is no other
residential house except the house of accused and informant. He had not seized any
wearing garments of the victim girl. The house of other people is about half a kilometer
away from the place of occurrence. Defence side put suggestion to him that there are
residential houses of other people around the place of occurrence but he willfully had not
corded their statement as witnesses, which he denied. Defence side also put suggestion
him that while he found the victim girl she was sound health, which she denied. The
Loy IR was written by a writer of the out-post campus. In the FIR there is no signature of the
JW oy writer. Informant Manju Marak signed but the signature was not legible and for this reason
he had written her name within bracket. Defence side also put suggestion to him that he
prepared a case and lodged the FIR through informant, which he denied. Defence side
also put suggestion to him that he had not properly investigate the case and filled false
charge sheet against the accused, which he denied.

13. Learned Addl. P. P. submitted that this is a case u/s 6 of the POCSO Act and as per
provision of section 29 of the POCSO Act, court shall presume that accused has committed
the offence as alleged in the FIR. The victim “X” in her evidence categorically stated that
accused committed penetrative sexual assault on her three times in a night and the age
of the victim girl is below 12 years and as such the prosecution able to prove the offence
u/s 6 of the POCSO Act against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt and this is a fit
case to convict the accused u/s 6 of the POCSO Act.

1 aude® 14. On the other hand, learned Advocate for the accused submitted that there is no
\gpecil dispute regarding age of the victim girl. The age of the victim girl is 10 years as stated by
PW2 i.e. the mother of the victim girl. PW1 i.e. victim girl in her evidence stated that one
evening accused took her into his house and committed penetrative sexual aSSaut Or “er
three times. The age of the victim girl is only 10 years but the doctors found hymen intact

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
Page 7 of 10

and there is no raptured in the hymen of the victim girl. The medical evidence negated
any penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl. So, doubt creates on the Prosecution case
and as such the prosecution shall prove the case beyond all reasonable doubt. But, the
Prosecution failed to prove this case against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt and
this is a fit case to acquit the accused person.

15. In this case the defence side has not disputed the age of the victim girl. From the
medical evidence it reveals that the age of the victim “X” was above 10 years and below
12 years at the time of occurrence. PW2 mother of the victim girl in her evidence stated
that at the time of occurrence age of victim “X” was 10 years. Material exhibit-A is the
birth certificate of the victim “x”. From material exhibit-A it reveals that her date of birth
is 15-02-2008. The occurrence took place on 25-01-2019. So, as per birth certificate age
of the victim “xX” was 10 years 11 months 10 days at the time of occurrence. Defence side
has not disputed the birth certificate. Hence, I have nothing to hesitate to hold that at the
go, time of occurrence age of victim “X” was 10 years 11 months and 10 days and she was
inor and child.

To consider the submission of both the sides Ld. Advocate let me scrutinize the

 

idence on record. From the evidence on record it reveals that except PW1 there is no
a4 ye witness. PW2 and PW4 are the reported witness. PW3 is the Medical Officer and PW5
> is the I.O of the case. So, PW3 and PW5 are official witness. PW2 and PW4 had not seen
the incident. So, in this case the entire case based on the evidence of PW1. It is settled
law that on the basis of sole testimonial of the rape victim conviction can be sustained if
the evidence of victim is probable and trustworthy. Ongoing through the evidence of PW1,
it reveals that at the time of occurrence her age was 10 years. PW1 in her evidence stated
that accused took her in his house put off the light of his house, removed his cloth and
the cloth of the victim and, thereafter, committed penetrative sexual assault on her for 3
times. PW1 remain in the house of accused whole night. The age of PW1 is 10 years. The
age of the accused is 59 years. If a man of the age of 59 years committed 3 times
penetrative sexual assault on a minor girl of the age of 10 years then there must be some
injuries and the hymen would be torn and raptured and there would be bleeding. But,
from the evidence of PW3, it reveals that she found hymen of the victim “X* was not
raptured. There is no injury mark on the body or private parts of the victim girl. So, the
medical evidence belie the prosecution case of penetrative sexual assault on the victim

 

Net guus’ "X”. From the evidence on record, it reveals that after 3 days of the occurrence the wictie:
a .

addl- om

sini “X” was unable to discharge her urine as a result of sexual assault and then she repertad
the matter to her mother. If a full grown male person committed penetrative sexual asaut
on a minor girl of 10 years then obviously there must be some raptured on the Gymnas anc
Page 8 of 10

 

the hymen would be torn. But here in this case, the hymen of the victim “X” was remained
intact and there is no raptured. The PW1 is a child witness, child witness is a most
dangerous witness as because he or she can be motivated or induce by any person to
depose falsely or she may be tutored witness. There is a quarrel going on between the
mother of the victim and the accused prior to the incident. So, it cannot be totally rule out
that for the previous enmity accused maybe falsely implicated in this case. Though the
provision of section 29 of the POCSO Act, cast duty on the court to presume the allegation
true but this provision also rebuttable. In a criminal case the burden of prove always lies

on the prosecution to prove the case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt.

17.__ As per allegation the incident took place on the night of 25-01-19 and informant
lodged the FIR on 29-01-2019. From the evidence of PW2 it reveals that since 26-01-19

~

till 29-01-19 she has not seen any abnormality of victim “X”. PW4 in her evidence also

aN
55 tated that after the incident victim “X” worked in his house for two days but she has not

  
  

or ported her about the incident. From the evidence of PW2 it reveals that after two days
5 the incident victim “X” became unwell and she asked her and she reported to her that
/ *raccused committed penetrative assault on her. As per allegation the incident took place on
«pl - the night of 25-01-2019. So, it appears that PW1 reported the incident to PW2 on 27-01-
2019. But PW2 lodged the FIR on 29-01-2019 stating that she came to know about the
incident on 29-01-2019. Therefore, I find that there is no corroboration between the

. ST bee

statement of FIR and evidence of PW2. Ongoing through the FIR it reveals that after four

days of the incident victim could not able to discharge her urine and she disclose the

matter to informant. But PW1 in her evidence nowhere stated that she was unwell after

three days of the incident. From the evidence of PW3 doctor it reveals that victim “X” not

attained the menarche and the hymen was not raptured and she found no abnormality of

the vagina of the victim “X”. Doctor also found no injury mark on the private part of the

victim “X”. If a full adult person committed penetrative sexual assault on a girl of 10 years

old who had not attained menarche then obviously the girl would got injury on her private

part and her hymen would be raptured and torn and there would be abnormality on her

vagina. But here in this case the age of the victim “X” was 10 years 11 months and 10

<\ days at the time of occurrence. She has not attained the menarche. Doctor found no

or rapture on her hymen and her vagina was found normal. Doctor found no injuries on the

7 aol judE body of victim “X” and on her private part. If the accused would committed thrice
addl- Sreinl penetrative sexual assault on PW1 then she would get injuries on her private part amd her
hymen would be raptured. The medical evidence totally belie the allegation of rape am the

victim “X”. For a girl of aged 10 years it is not bearable of force full thrice penetratiwe

sexual assault and she remain silent for three/ four days and normally she peruse her Gey
nnn

Page 9 of 10

to day work and other family member has not notice any abnormality. Hence, I find that
the evidence of PW1 is most improbable and most untrustworthiness. Therefore, I find
that it is not safe to rely on the evidence of PW1. Hence, I have nothing to hesitate to hold

that prosecution failed to prove the charges against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt.

18. From the discussion made above, I find that the prosecution side failed to prove
the charges against the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, accused
Living Marak is found not guilty u/s 376(2)(i) of the IPC, R/W section 6 of the Protection
of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and he is acquitted from the charges and set
him free at his liberty forthwith.

19. Senda copy of the judgment and order to the District Magistrate, Chirang as per
provision of section 365 of the Cr. P. Cs

20. Considering the fact and circumstance of the case, I find that this is not a fit
case to recommend the DLSA, Chirang for victim compensation u/s 357-A Cr. PC.

 

21. The seized birth Certificate be returned to the informant in due course of time.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 18" day of September,

Cay

Dictated and corr&ct dby me, Addition Webra, dge
Aa >) “Bijni, 4/nE

 
 

Page 10 of 10

APPENDIX
Prosecution witnesses:
P.W.1- Victim “X”
P,W.2-Monju Marak
P.W.3- Dr. Kukumoni Basumatary
P.W.4- Smti Tupuri Roy
P.W.5- Banajit Uzir

Prosecution exhibit-
Ext.1- Statement of the Victim.
Ext.2- FIR.
Ext.3- Seizure List.
Ext.4- Sketch Map.
Ext.5- Charge-sheet.
Material exhibit(A)- Birth Certificate.

Defence witnesses- Nil.
Defence exhibit- Nil.

 
