Page 1 of 21

 

DISTRICT- CHARAIDEO.

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE: CHARAIDEO: SONARI
TE SL LAL JUDGE: CHARAIDEO: SONARI
Present:- Syed Imdadur Rahman, AJS.

SPECIAL JUDGE
The 19" day of January, 2019.

 

SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 30 OF 2016

Under Section

 

6 of the Protection of Children

from Sexual offences Act, 2012.
Read With

376(2)(i) of the Indian Penal Code.

State of Assam
-Versus-
Berth Tigga

ee ee Accused Person,

This case was taken up for final hearing on 17/1/19 in the presence of

Sri Basanta Gogoi.............. Advocate for prosecution side.

Sri Krishna Konwar .......cccccece00.. Advocate of the accused.
F.I.R was lodged on rreiiits, 29.07.2016.

Charge framed on srrtrisiii: = 16.09.2016 & 02.11.2018.
Argument Heard on stsseseeees 17.01.19

Judgment Delivered on siriire1+: 19.01.19

Sr
Bo
Special Judge
Charaideo, Sonari
Page 2 of 21

 

JUDGMENT

 

In this case the accused person is facing
trial under section 6 of the P.O.C.S.O act
2012, and alternately Under Section
376(2)(i) I.P.C

i. The case of the prosecution is that, on 16.10.2015 the accused called the
daughter of the informant Miss XX to work at their house and after that the accused
induced her to have sexual relation with him, for which she became pregnant. It is also
the case, that, at the time of the incident the age of the daughter of the informant
was 15 years
ay That, after this incident the informant lodged an F.I.R before the Charaipung
Police station, which registered its P.S case no 20/16. Police after investigation
forwarded charge sheet U/S 4 of the Protection of children from Sexual offences Act,
2012, against the accused person. Thereafter, case was committed and charge U/S 4
of the Protection of children from Sexual offences Act, 2012 was framed against the
accused person. That, at a later stage the charge was altered and Charge under
section 6 of the Protection of children from Sexual offences Act, 2012 and alternatively
(as per section 42 of the P.O.C.S.O act) Charge under section 376(2)(i) I.P.C was
framed against the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the accused
person to, which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Prosecution examined
09 witnesses.
3. The accused person was examined U/S 313 Cr.p.c, where he denied the case
of the prosecution. The accused person examined no witness. I have heard arguments
put forwarded by both sides,
4, In this case the points for determination are:-

A) Whether, the accused committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault

Gra against the minor daughter of the informant?
7

Special Judge
yharaideo, Sonari

 

 
Page 3 of 21

 

Or, alternately,

B) Whether the accused on 16.10.15 committed rape upon the daughter
of the informant, who was below the age of 16 years at that relevant time?
se Discussion decision and reasons for the decision

Here in this case, prosecution is to prove that, the accused has committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon the minor daughter of the informant. The
allegation against the accused is that, he induced the minor daughter of the informant
to have sexual intercourse with him and as a result of that sexual relation, the minor
daughter of the informant became pregnant.

As per section 5(j)(ii) of the Protection of children from Sexual offences Act,
2012, whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child, which, in case of female
child, makes the child pregnant as a consequence of sexual assault, commits
aggravated penetrative sexual assault on a child.

Now let us scrutinize evidences on record, of this case, what is there on
record, basing on which the prosecution is trying to prove the case against the

accused,

Direct evidence

 

6. Here, in this case, prosecution examined the alleged victim of this case, as
P.W2. The P.W2 in her evidence deposed that, accused is known to her being her
neighbor. That, two years ago, on being called by the wife of the accused to help her
in domestic work, she went to the house of the accused. On the day of the incident,
while she was there, accused requested her to stay in his house and she stayed there.
That, the accused by paying her Rs.60/- “cohabited” with her for 3 days. That, on
detecting her pregnancy, after 2/3 months of the incident, she informed the matter to
her mother Smti. Lakhi Tasa. That, her mother took her to hospital, where pregnancy
was confirmed. That, her mother informed the matter to public. That, accused declined
to accept the responsibility, for which her father filed this case. That, about a year
back, she delivered one male child.

bm, In the cross examination this P.W deposed that, she left her school several

Special Judge

Charaideo, Sonarij
Page 4 of 21

 

years back. That, she has not submitted any document on her age. That, while she
was pregnant for about 3 months, she informed the matter to her mother and others.
NGO people insisted them to file this case. That, she used to go to the house of the
accused for work as domestic help. That, they were not willing to file this case and the
case was filed by NGO.

Here, I have considered the evidence of the P.W2 (alleged victim) and found
that, according to her, while she went to the house of the accused to work as domestic
help, she and the accused had sexual intercourse as the accused paid her Rs.60/-.
That, due to this physical relation, she gave birth to a male child.

Here, as per the P.W.2 she failed to place any documentary evidence
concerning her age, although she deposed specifically that she was 15 years old, while
the incident occurred.

The evidence of the P.W.2 failed to contain anything against the accused that,
he used force to have the sexual relation with her. In this regard evidence of the P.W.2
shows that there was neither using of force by the accused nor any objection was
there on her part.

The cross examination of the P.W.2 failed to bring out anything in favour of
the accused concerning the point of his sexual intercourse with the victim and giving
birth to a male child by the victim.

The essence of the evidence of the alleged victim is that, the accused had
sexual intercourse with her and as a result she (victim) became pregnant and later,
gave birth to a child. Here the evidence of the victim is clear and specific.

Concerning the point of consent and objection, it is clear that the present
Protection of children from Sexual offences Act, 2012 has no room for the aspect of
consent or no consent on the part of the victim. The act is clear that the action of the
wrongdoer on a child below 18 years will attract the penal provisions of the act,
regardless to the factor of consent or no consent on the part of the victim. Here in this
Case, evidence of the victim (P.W2) may fail to place anything that, accused had forced
her to have sexual intercourse, but as mentioned above, that aspect is a no factor
aspect, in this act.

Sm
Special Judge —
Charaideo, Sonar

 
Page 5 of 21

 

As per section 42 —A of this act the provisions of the act shall be in addition to
and not in derogation of the provisions of any other law for the time being in force
and, in case of any inconsistency, the provisions of this act shall have overriding effect

on the provisions of any such law to the extent of the inconsistency,

Other Evidences
yi In this case the informant is the father of the alleged victim, who was

examined as P.W.3. The P.W.3 in his evidence deposed that at the time of the incident
his daughter was 13/14 years old. That, on seeing symptoms of pregnancy on her
daughter Tulsi Tasa, his wife asked her about the incident. That, on this Tulsi told that
she was pregnant through accused Bartha Tigga. That, a village meeting was held in
which accused declined to accept the responsibility. On his denial, as insisted by
others, he lodged the FIR. That, one year back his daughter delivered one male child.

In the cross examination this P.W deposed that, victim Tulsi is his daughter
and she did not go to school. That, he has not submitted any document on the age of
his daughter to police. That, he has filed this case at the insistence of local SULFA
boys. That, he is not aware about the contents of the FIR. That, he came to know
about the incident while Tulsi was pregnant for about 4/5 months. That, his daughter
used to go to the house of the accused to work as domestic help.

I have scrutinized the recorded evidence of the P.W3. The essence of the
evidence of the P.W3/informant is that, 1) his daughter Tulsi Tasa, on the day of the
incident was 13/14 years old. (2) That, his wife after noticing symptoms of pregnancy
on their daughter, came to know about the incident.

8. The P.W4 is the mother of the alleged victim, who in evidence deposed that,
at the time of the incident her daughter was 16/17 years old. That, on seeing
symptoms of pregnancy on her daughter Tulsi Tasa, she asked her about the reason.
That, Tulsi Told her that she became pregnant through accused Bartha Tigga. That,
her daughter Tulsi told her that she went to the house of the accused to work as
domestic help and stayed in the house of the accused for the night. The accused on
two occasions committed physical relation with her and for the said relation she
a
Special Judge
sharaideo, Sonari

 
Page 6 of 21

 

became pregnant. That, a village meeting was held in which accused declined to
accept the responsibility. That, after filing of this case her daughter delivered one male
child.

In the cross examination this P.W. deposed that victim Tulsi is her eldest
daughter. At present she is about 18 years. That, Tulsi never went to school. That,
they have no document on age of her daughter.

I have considered the evidence of the P.W4/mother of the alleged victim. The
essence of the evidence of the P.W4 is ....1) Her daughter was 16/17 years old at the
time of the incident. 2) That, her daughter told her that she became pregnant due to
her physical relation with the accused. 3) That, they have no document concerning the
age of the victim.

Here, in this case, the evidences of the P.W3 and P.W4 (parent of the victim)

are clear and specific. The P.W3 and 4 have corroborated the evidence of the victim
.@. P.W2.
9. The P.W5 in evidence deposed that, Tulsi used to come to their house for
domestic work. She was unmarried. On seeing symptoms of pregnancy on Tulsi Tasa,
she asked her about the cause of pregnancy. Tulsi told her that she was pregnant
through accused Bartha Tigga. That, a meeting was held in which her husband has
accepted the responsibility. On his denial to accept Tulsi, father of Tulsi lodged the
case.

In the cross examination this P.W deposed that, at the time of her marriage,
Tulsi might be aged about 11/12 years. That, her eldest daughter is presently 13 years
old. That, while Tulsi used to stay in their house, she used to sleep with her. In her
absence never used to stay at her residence,

This P.W is the wife of the accused and as per her evidence the accused
accepted his responsibility, concerning the pregnancy of the victim. This P.W also
noticed that the victim was having symptoms of pregnancy. This P.W is one of the
most material independent witnesses of this case, being the wife of the accused. This
P.WS5 clearly supported the evidence of the alleged victim as well as the case of the

prosecution.
An
4
Special Judge
Charaideo, Sonari

 
Page 7 of 21

 

10. The P.W.6 in his evidence deposed that victim Tusli Tasa and her father Suren
Tasa are known to him, being resident of the same Tea Estate. That, from neighboring
residents, he heard that Tulsi was pregnant through accused Bartha Tigga. At that
time Tusli was unmarried. That, he heard that Tulsi gave birth to one male child. In
the cross examination this P.W. deposed that he did not ask the victim about the
incident.

141. The P.W.7 in his evidence deposed that from the parents of Tulsi Tasa she
heard that Tusli became pregnant through accused Bartha Tigga. At that time Tusli
was unmarried. That, he heard that Tulsi gave birth to one male child. In the cross
examination this P.W. deposed that he did not ask the victim about the incident.

12, The P.W.8 in his evidence deposed that on 29.07.2016 he was posted as
Officer-in-Charge of Charaipung Police Station. On that day at 4.30 P.M. complainant
Suren Tasa lodged an FIR. That, he examined the complainant, victim and recorded
statements. He visited the place of occurrence. He recorded statements of witnesses.
Thereafter he was transferred from that police station, for which he has handed over
the case diary to the new officer-in-charge.

In the cross examination this P.W. deposed that he was not given any
document with the FIR to see the age of the victim. During his tenure no DNA test was
conducted, neither applied. That, the victim did not tell him specifically that two times
accused had co-habited with her, but said about three times. The P.W.5 did not tell her
that accused caused pregnancy to the victim.

13, The P.W.9 in his evidence deposed that on 22.08.2016 he was officer-in-
charge of Charaipung P.S. As the previous officer was transferred, he was handed over
with the case diary of this case. That, he found that only medical report was to be
collected in this case, so he collected it and forwarded charge sheet against the
accused,

Scrutiny of evidences

14, Here in this case, the alleged victim i.e. P.W2 is the most important witness of

An this case. I have scrutinized her evidence and found that, through evidence, she
oe

Special Judge
‘haraideo, Sonari-

 
Page 8 of 2]

 

specifically and clearly deposed that, the accused had sexual intercourse with her. It is
clearly deposed that accused had sexual intercourse for three occasions, with her and
the accused paid her Rs 60/. Here, the evidence of the P.W2 is specific that, accused
had sexual intercourse with her. Also as per the P.W2 she reported the matter to her
mother, and that, she gave birth to a male child, one year back. The cross examination
of the P.W2 failed to bring out anything which may bring doubt over her evidence.

The evidence of the P.W2 consist of these following factual aspect ---- 1)
Accused had sexual intercourse with her. 2) That, she gave birth to a male child, later
on. and 3) from her evidence it can be gathered that at the time of the incident she
was below 18 years.

As per section 5 (j) (ii) of the Protection of children from Sexual offences Act
2012, whoever commits Penetrative sexual assault on 2 child, which, in case of female
child, makes the child pregnant as @ consequence of sexual assault, commits
aggravated penetrative sexual assault on that child. Here, in this case, as per the
alleged victim/PW2, the accused had sexual intercourse for 3 occasions with her and
for that reason she became pregnant and later on she gave birth to a male child. The
evidence of the P.W.2 failed to contain anything against the accused that, he used
force to have the sexual relation with her. In this regard evidence of the P,W.2 shows
that there was neither using of force by the accused nor any objection was there on
her part.

As mentioned above, concerning the point of consent and objection, it is
clear that the Protection of children from Sexual offences Act, 2012 has no room for
the aspect of consent or no consent on the part of the victim. The act is clear that the
action of the wrongdoer on a child below 18 years will attract the penal provisions of
the act, regardless to the factor of consent or no consent on the part of the victim.
Here in this case, evidence of the victim (P.W2) shows that she may be a consenting
party, but as mentioned above, that aspect is a no factor aspect, concerning P.O.S.C.O
act.

The P.W3 is the father of the P.W2/ alleged victim of this case. He supported

Hn the case of the prosecution and the evidence of the alleged victim/P.W2. According to

Special Judge

raraideo, Sonai;
Page 9 of 21

 

him, his wife was told by the alleged victim/their daughter that she became pregnant
through the accused Birth Tigga. Further, his daughter gave birth to a male child.

The P.W4 is the mother of the alleged victim of this case. She also supported
the evidence of the alleged victim and case of the prosecution. She, on seeing
symptoms of pregnancy on her daughter/victim of this case, she asked her about the
matter and was told by the victim, that, she became Pregnant through the accused.
She was also told by the victim that, while she went to work at the house of the
accused and stayed in his house, accused had sexual intercourse with her, twice, for
which she became Pregnant. Here, also the mother of the alleged victim supported the
evidence of her daughter/victim.

In this case the wife of the accused as P.W5 very clearly supported the
evidence of the victim. According to her, the accused accepted his responsibility in a
village meeting.

The cross examination part of these witnesses failed to bring out anything
which may create any reasonable doubt.

In this case I have considered evidences of all P.Ws and found the

followings:-

1) The evidence of the alleged victim is clear and specific that accused had
sexual intercourse with her for which she became pregnant. That, at that time she was
below 18 years old.

2) The P.W2 and P.W3 (parent of the alleged victim) supported the case of
the prosecution, They noticed symptoms of pregnancy on their daughter/victim. The
P.W4 was told by the victim that accused had sexual intercourse with her,

3) The wife of the accused as P.WS supported the case of the prosecution.
According to her, the accused i.e. her husband accepted his responsibility in a meeting,
in causing the victim, pregnant. She also noticed symptoms of pregnancy on the
victim,

Gn 4) Evidences of other witnesses also have supported the case of the
a

Special Judge Prosecution.
haraideo, Sonari
Page 10 of 21

 

5) Cross examination of P.Ws failed to bring out anything to create doubt
over the case of the prosecution.
15; Position of this case so far, is that, the alleged victim has adduced clear
evidence that, accused had sexual intercourse with her. That, she became pregnant
and at a later stage, gave birth to a child. The P.w4 (mother of the victim) was
reported by the victim that accused had sexual intercourse with her. Here the alleged
victim is a minor one, but her evidence is clearly corroborated by the P.W3, P.W4 and
other witnesses.

In Yogesh Singh V/s Mahabeer Singh 2016 (7) Supreme 427 : AIR
2016 :SC: 5160. The Hon'ble Supere Court held that,

"Testimony of Child Witnesses

22. It is well-settled that the evidence of a child witness must find
adequate corroboration, before it is relied upon as the rule of corroboration
is Of practical wisdom than of law. (See Prakash Vs. State of M.P., (1992) 4
SCC 225; Baby Kandayanathi Vs. State of Kerala, 1993 Supp (3) SCC
667; Raja Ram Yadav Vs. State of Bihar, (1 996) 9 SCC 287; Dattu Ramrao
Sakhare Vs. State of Maharashtra, (1 997) 5 SCC 341; State of U.P. Vs. Ashok
Dixit & Anr., (. 2000) 3 SCC 70; Suryanarayana Vs, State Of Karnataka, (2001)
9 SCC 129),

23. However, it is not the law that if a witness is a child, his evidence shal
be rejected, even if it is a found reliable. The law is that evidence of a child
witness must be evaluated more carefully and with greater circumspection
because a child is susceptible to be swayed b Y what others tell him and thus
2 Child witness is an easy prey to tutoring. [Vide Panchhi Vs. State of U.P.,
(1998) 7 SCC 177].

Further, In Golla Yelugu Govinda V/S State Of A.P 2008 Cr.L.J 2607
(2609) (SC) it was observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that,
n Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (in short the E vidence Act) does not Prescribe any

e
Special Judge Particular age as a determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent
haraideo, Sonari

 
Page 11 of 21

 

one, On the contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that all
persons shall be competent to testify, unless the Court considers that the Vv
are prevented from understanding the questions put to them or from giving
rational answers to these questions, because of tender years, extreme old
age, disease- whether of mind, or an y other cause of the same kind. A child
of tender age can be allowed to testify if he has intellectual capacity to
understand questions and give rational answers thereto. This position was
concisely stated by Brewer J in Wheeler v. United States (159 U.S. 523). The
evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected per se; but the
Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with close scrutiny and
only on being convinced about the quality thereof and reliability can record
conviction, based thereon. (See Surya Narayana v. State of Karnataka (2001
(1) Supreme 1).

8. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare v. State of Maharashtra (1997 (5) SCC 341 dit

was held as follows:

A child witness if found competent to depose to the facts and reliable one
such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other words even in the
absence of oath the evidence of a child witness can be considered under
Section 118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to
understand the answers thereof. The evidence of a child witness and
credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of each case. The
only precaution which the Court should bear in mind while assessing the
evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a reliable one and
his/her demeanour must be like an y other competent witness and there is

no likelihood of being tutored.

9. The decision on the question whether the child witness has sufficient
a“ intelligence primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his manners, his

se. apparent possession or lack of intelligence, and said Judge may resort to
Special Judge

haraideo, Sonari
itis

Naraideo, Sona

Page 12 of 21

 

any examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and intelligence as
well as his understanding of the obligation of an oath. The decision of the
trial court may, however, be disturbed b y the higher Court if from what is
preserved in the records, it is clear his conclusion was erroneous. This
Precaution is necessary because child witnesses are amenable to tutoring
and often live in a world of make beliefs. Though it is an established
principle that child witnesses are dangerous witnesses as they are pliable
and liable to be influenced easily, shaped and moulded, but it is also an
accepted norm that if after careful scrutin y Of their evidence the Court
comes to the conclusion that there is an impress of truth in it, there is no

obstacle in the way of accepting the evidence of a child witness. "

Here in this case, in consonance with the Judgments mentioned above, this
court has very carefully scrutinized the evidence of the alleged victim of this case who
is a minor by her age. This court has scrutinized every aspect of the evidence of the
child witness and did not find anything to discard or disbelieve the evidence. A careful

scrutiny of that evidence yields the following points::::

1) The evidence adduced by the alleged victim is clear and Straight, against the
accused. Nothing can be gathered from her evidence, which may be disturbing

towards acceptance of her evidence.

2) The cross examination failed to bring out anything against the concerned witness,

for discarding it, rather it inspires confidence.

3) Other witnesses have clearly corroborated the evidence of the P.W2/ alleged

victim of this case.

MEDICAL EVIDENCE

16. The P.W1 being the doctor who examined the victim, in his evidence deposed

 

that, on 30.07.2016 he was working at Sonari Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital as Medical &

Health Officer-I. On that day, at about 2.30 P.M. on police requisition, he examined
ri
Page 13 of 21

 

Tulsi Tassa, daughter of Sri Suren Tassa of Santipur Tea Estate, Line No.1 under

Charaipung P.S. in connection with Charaipung P.S. Case No.20/2016 under Section
376 I,P.C. R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act. That, the victim was accompanied by WHG

Mrs. Rupa Borgohain and she was examined in presence of female attended Mrs.

Sunmai Baruah, Staff Nurse on examination he found as follows:-

wP
Special Judge
Charaideo, Sonari

Brief history- Physical intimacy.

General physical examination:-

General behavious — Normal, Mental status — Normal
Cloths — Changed. Findings — None

Built and nutrition — average. Weight 49 Kg.

Height- 5 feet. Teeth- Total 28 Nos.

Marks of violence on the body- Nil

Examination of genitalia-

There was no injury seen. Hymen- ruptured and old.
Forchette- normal. Clitories-Normal

Labia, majora and minora- Normal.

Vagina — Normal, injury- nil.

Discharge and stains — Nil.

Internal examination- Adnexa was free,

Laboratory examination:

Vaginal smear examination- No spermatozoa seen.

Pregnancy text for H.C.G. in urine- positive.

Ultrasonography- Single viable inter-uterine pregnancy of 34.4 weeks of

gestation with cephalic presentation.

Rediological examination:-
X-Ray of left elbow joint reveals complete fusion of epiphysis around the elbow

joint.
Page 14 of 21

 

X-Ray of the left wrist joint reveals incomplete fusion of epiphysis around the
wrist joint reveals incomplete fusion of epiphysis around the wrist joint. On
examination of Tulshi Tassa, he is of the opinion that — (i) her age is above 14
years and below 17 years, (ii) no mark of violence seen in her body, (iii) no
spermatozoa seen in her vaginal smear examination and (iv) she was pregnant
of around eight months. Ext.1 is the medical report and Ext.1(1) is my
signature. Age of the victim is determined on the basis of the Radiological
report given by Dr. Ranjit Hazarika, Radiologist. Ext.1(2) is the report given by
Dr. Ranjit Hazarika.

I have considered the medical evidence of this case and found that, it revels
that the victim was pregnant at the time of her medical examination. Further the
medical evidence also reveals that the hymen of the victim is found to be ruptured

Here, the evidence of the alleged victim that, she became pregnant and her
pregnancy was confirmed in hospital has been clearly corroborated by the medical
evidence of this case.

id; I have considered evidences of the P.Ws and found that, they are specific to

the question in controversy and have supported the case of the prosecution.

Age of the Victim

18. During argument it was argued that evidences on record failed to prove that
alleged victim was below 18 years at the time of the incident, for which the case of the
prosecution falls. I have considered this vital aspect. As per the P.W2/ alleged victim of
this case, at the time of the incident she was 15 years old. According to the father of
the victim i.e. the victim was 13/14 years old at the time of the incident. Here the
mother of the victim i.e. as P.W4 deposed that at the time of the incident the victim
was 16/17 years old. According to the Doctor (P.W1) on 30/07/16, the age of the
victim was above 14 years and below 17 years. From the material evidences on record
it is clear that the age of the alleged victim at the time of incident was below 18 years.
di
ial.

nh
Special Judge

sharaideo, Sonari
Page 18 of 21

 

In this regard the cross part of P.Ws failed bring out anything to doubt the evidences

on record.

Legal aspect
19, As per section 29 of the POSCO act,"Where a person is prosecuted for

committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under section 3,5,7 and
section 9 of this act, the Special court shall presume, that such person has committed
or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may be unless the contrary
is proved. Here it is mandatory to presume that the accused has committed the
offence for which he has been charged.

As per section 4 of the Evidence act, the term “Shall Presume” connotes that,
“Whenever it is directed by this act that the court shall presume a fact, it shall regard
such fact as proved, unless and until it is disproved.

Here in this case, as per section 29 of the POSCO act, it is mandatory on the
part of this court, to presume that, accused has committed the offence defined in
section 5 of the P.O.C.S.O act, if not disproved by the accused.

The term “Disproved” as per Evidence act is as follows :-- “A fact is said to be
disproved when, after considering the matters before it, the court either believes that
it does not exist, or considers its non-existence so probable that a prudent man ought,
under the circumstances of the particular case, to act upon the supposition that it does
not exist.” I have considered the evidences on record and found that the accused
failed place any cogent evidence basing on which the court either disbelieve the case
of the prosecution or considers its non-existence. On record there is nothing to
disbelieve the case of the prosecution. The accused did not place any evidence before
court and the cross examinations failed to disprove the case of the prosecution.
POSITION OF EVIDENCES
20. If we place evidences on record of this Case then, we will find the following
positions.

I) In this case the alleged victim clearly deposed that accused had sexual

yn intercourse with her, resulting birth of a male child.
4

Special Judge

~haraideo, Sonari
Page 16 of 21

 

ii) The material witnesses have corroborated the evidence of the alleged
victim.

ii) The independent witness has also supported the evidence of the
prosecution.

iv) The medical evidence Supported the case of the prosecution,

Vv) Evidences on record shows that at the time of occurrence, the alleged
victim was below 18 years.

vi) Cross-examination of the witnesses failed to bring out anything which
may either disproves the case of the Prosecution or create any doubt over the

Prosecution evidences.

ALTERNATE POINT FOR DETERMINATI, ON.
SSE PLING FOUR DETERMINATION,

#1. Section 42 of the POCSO act 2012 reads as follows “ Where an act or
omission constitutes an offence punishable under this act and also under section 166A,
354A, 354B, 354C, 354D, 370, 370A, 375, 376, 376A, 376C, 376D, 376E, or section
509 of IPC then notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in
force, the offender found guilty of such offence shall be liable to punishment under this
act or under the Indain Penal Code as provided for punishment which is greater in
degree.” The prescribed maximum punishment of section 376(2) (i) I.P.C is greater
then, the maximum prescribed punishment concerning section 4 of the POSCO act.
Concerning the alternate point for determination, I have considered the
evidences on record and the discussions made above. To attract section 376(2) (i)
I.P.C the following conditions must be fulfilled. Condition no 1) That, there must be
penetration of the penis in to the vagina of the victim. The penetration level may be to
some extend only. Condition no 2) The victim woman must be below 16 years in age.
3) The action of the accused must be against the will of the victim. Here in this case,
from the evidence of the alleged victim /P.W2 it is clear that neither accused used any
force nor the action of the accused was without the consent of the victim. Considering
this aspect, in opinion of this court, here, prosecution has failed to fulfill conditions
Hn against the accused, concerning section 376 (2) (i) I.P.C.
Special Judge
-haraideo, Sonari
Page 17 of 21

 

aa Considering the concrete evidence on record, it is held that, prosecution has
proved the case against the accused, beyond all reasonable doubt, under section 6 of
the act. Here, the prosecution has proved all required ingredients to attract section 6
Protection of children from Sexual offences Act, 2012 act. The Prosecution proved that
accused caused pregnancy to the minor victim, after his sexual intercourse with her,
resulting birth of a male child.
FINDINGS
aa By now the position of this case is clear that, accused is guilty of offences
under section 6 of the Protection of children from Sexual offences Act, 2012. Perused
the section 42 of the act and the discussions on the previous Paragraph. Accordingly
the accused Sri Berth Tigga is here by convicted under section 6 of the Protection of
children from Sexual offences Act, 2012. I have considered the point as to whether the
convict can be released under section 360 Cr.P.C or any other relevant law. In this
regard record shows that, convict is 40 years. I have considered all aspects along with
the position that accused had committed aggravated sexual assault upon a mirror girl,
which is the age of the granddaughter of him. Record shows that accused called the
innocent girl to work in his house and by offering her money, he had sexual
intercourse with her, resulting pregnancy towards the victim girl. The position is that
the victim girl will remember the trauma rest of her life and there is less prospect that
she will be able to lead normal life forgetting the foul incident and the son of the victim
will be the most sufferer, Sexual intercourse of the minor girl, under the facts of this
Case, Cannot be compared with any beneficial factor which may favor for release of an
accused, unpunished. Here I have considered the age of the accused and found that,
he is a mature person and is not an adolescent, having ignorant of the consequence of
his action. The facts and circumstances of this case failed to bring anything which may
require this court to release the accused, unpunished,
24. Heard the accused on the point of sentence, During sentence hearing the
accused submitted that, he had sexual intercourse with the victim and now he is ready

Dn to take all responsibilities of the victim and the minor child. Except, this the accused

Special Judge
/haraideo, Sonari

 

 
Page 18 of 21

 

placed nothing before this court. I have considered all aspects of this case, the facts
and circumstances of the crime, the possible outcome of the crime and is with the
opinion that, accused is liable for adequate punishment and is not entitled for any
lighter punishment.

' In Alister Anthony Pareira V/S State of Maharastra « 2012 (2) SCC
272: the Hon‘ble Supreme Court held that, Sentencing is an important task
in the matters of crime. One of the prime objectives of the criminal law is
imposition of (an) appropriate, adequate, just and proportionate sentence
commensurate with the nature and gravity of the crime and the manner in
which the crime is done. There is no straitjacket formula for sentencing an
accused on proof of crime. The courts have evolved certain principles: the
twin objectives of sentencing policy is deterrent and correction. What
seritence would meet the ends of justice depends on the facts and
nee ETS OF justice depends on the facts

circumstances of each case and the court must keep in mind the gravity of
eee eee tte court must keep in mind the gravity o
the crime, motive for crime, nature of the offence and all other attendant

circumstances.

In State of M.P. V/S Bablu Natt: (2009);2 SCC. 272 : the Hon'ble
Supreme Court observed that ‘The principle governing im osition of
punishment would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case,
An offence which affects the morale of the society should be severely dealt
with. Socio-economic status, reli fon, race, caste or creed of the accused
en eennennieee LEMMON, race, caste or creed of the accusea

and the victim although may not be wholly Irrelevant, should be eschewed
n_@ Case of this nature, particularly when Parliament itself had laid down

minimum sentence, In India, we do not ha ve_sentencin uidelines.

Necessity of the guidelines on the judicial side has been highlighted in § tate
of Punjab vs. Prem Sagar & Others.[(2008) 7 SCC 250], wherein it was

noticed:

 

 

 

"5. Whether the Court while awarding a sentence would take recourse to the
n mt : ’ ’ :
“DB principle of deterrence or reform or invoke the doctrine of proportionality,
Special.

Charaideo, Sonari
Page 19 of 21

 

Y

would no doubt depend upon the facts and circumstances of e€ach case.

While doing so however, the nature of the offence said to have been

committed by the accused lays _an_ important role, The offences which

affect public health must be dealt with severely. For the said Purpose, the

courts must notice the object for enacting Article 47 of the Constitution of

India.

6. There are certain offences which touch our social fabric. We must remind
ourselves that even while introducing the doctrine of plea bargaining in the

Code of Criminal Procedure, certain types of offences had been kept out of
the purview thereof. While imposing sentences, the said principles should be
borne in mind.

7. A sentence is a judgment on conviction of a crime, It is resorted to after g
person is convicted of the offence. It is _the ultimate goal of any justice-
delivery system. Parliament, however, _in providing for a hearing on
sentence, as would appear from sub-section (2) of Section 235, sub-section
(2) of Section 248, Section 325 as also Sections 360 and 361 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, has laid down certain principles. The said provisions la
CE TS en certain principles. The said provisions lay

down the principle that the court in awardin the sentence must take into

consideration a large number of relevant factors; sociological backdrop o oF
the accused being one of them.

& Although a wide discretion has been conferred upon the court the same

must be exercised judiciously. It would depend upon the circumstances in
Which the crime has been committed and his mental state. Age of the

accused is also relevant.
25. I have considered all aspects of this case, through crime test, criminal test

 

 

and the R-R test, in relation with proper sentencing of the accused. Considering the
materials on record due to the age and possibility for reform of the accused, this court

is with the opinion to sentence the accused with imprisonment.

te
Special Judge
Charaideo, Sonari

 
Page 20 of 21

 

26. Accordingly the convict Sri Berth Tigga is sentenced to undergo Rigorous
Imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rupees 5000/-(Five thousand only) in
default S.I. for 5 (five) months under section 6 of the POSCO act. If circumstance
arises, then, period undergone detention, so far, by the accused will be set off,

Considering evidences on record, as the victim is a girl and her son were living
with her parent, this court is inclined to refer the matter to DLSA, Sivasagar, under
section 375(A) Cr.P.C. Accordingly matter is referred to DLSA, Sivasagar under section
357(A) Cr.P.C. Furnish free copy to the convict.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 19" day of January,

2019,
See
cease a\!| 4 — S moods
yped by me,
74/411
(S.I. Rahman) (S.I.Rahman)

aut. Speci Jute
Charaldeo, Sonar’ Charaideo, Sonari:

Charaideo,Sonari, . Charaideo, Sonari.
 

Page 21 of 21

Appendix

Prosecution Witnesses.

 

SI. 1---- Prosecution Witness 1 --- Dr. Diganta Chetia

Sl. 2---- Prosecution Witness 2 --- Miss tulsi Tasa

SI. 3---- Prosecution Witness 3---- Suren Tasa

Sl. 4---- Prosecution Witness 4---- Smti Lakhi Tasa

SI, 5---- Prosecution Witness 5---- Smti Sachinta Tigga

SI. 6---- Prosecution Witness 6---- Sri Debaru Bagti

Sl. 7---- Prosecution Witness 7---- Smti Nabanita Garh

SI. 8---- Prosecution Witness 8---- Prabhakar Singh

Prosecution Exhibits

.
a a ll

Prosecution Exhibits

Prosecution Exhibits

Prosecution Exhibits

Prosecution Exhibits
Prosecution Exhibits

EEE EME LAID,

Defence witness.
Nil.
Defence Exhibit.

Nil

1. Medical report

. 1(1) Signature of P.W. 1
. 2 Sketch Map

. 2(1) Signature of P.W. 8
. 3 Charge sheet

3(1) Signature of P.w. 9

LW
Gee 00
(S.I.Rahman)—— _

Addition SpeGiehdudge. sonar
Charaldeo, Sonari
