HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE BILASIPARA

Present:- Smti S. Bhuyan, AJS
Special Judge, Bilasipara
Special (POCSO) Case No- 07 of 2018

u/s 376(2)(i) of IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act
STATE
Versus

Fayzuddin

S/O Ahar Ali,

R/O vill- Chinamari,

PS- Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri, Assam

Accused person

(Corresponding to GR Case No- 1214/18 (arising out of Bilasipara PS case no.
847/18) u/s 4 of POCSO Act added section 376(2)(i) of I.P.C.

Advocate appeared:-

For the state:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Special P.P.
For the accused:- Mr. Rabiul Islam, Advocate.

Date of institution of the case :- 18-07-18

Date of Framing charge :- 15-12-18

Date of prosecution evidence :- 12-03-19, 19-03-19
Statement of accused recorded on _ :- 06-04-19

Date of Argument :- 06-04-19

Judgment delivered :- 20-04-19
2|Page

JUDGMENT
Prosecution Case

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 18-07-18 prosecutrix lodged written
ejahar before i/c Lakhiganj Watch Post inter alia citing that on 14-07-18 at about
10.00 pm, in absence of her mother, accused Fayzuddin called her and when she
opened the door, accused dragged her towards the tubewell and committed
sexual intercourse with her against her consent gagging her mouth and seeing
incident Ali Akbor And Ajidul apprehend accused Fayzuddin.
Investigation

if, On receipt of ejahar from prosecutrix, i/c Lakhiganj Watch Post forwarded
the same to O/C Bilasipara PS for registration of the case and O/C Bilasipara PS
registered a police case vide Bilasipara police case No. 847/18 under section 4 of
POCSO Act and section 376(2)(i) of I.P.C. and SI Bijoy Kumar Das was entrusted
to conduct the investigation of the case and after completion of investigation I/O
submitted charge sheet against the accused Fayzuddin u/s 376(2)(i) I.P.C and
section 4 of POCSO Act and cognizance taken.

Charge

3. After hearing learned counsel for both sides and perusal of material on
record charge u/s 376(2)(i) of I.P.C and section 4 of POCSO Act was framed
against the accused Fayzuddin and when charges are read over and explained
to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
Trial

4. In order to prove the prosecution charges against the accused person,
prosecution adduce evidence of all together 4 number of witnesses and exhibited
2 nos. of documents. PW-1 Prosecutrix, PW-2 Ajidul Ali, PW-3 Ali Akbor and PW-
4 Sanjab Ali. Ext-1 Ejahar, Ext-2 Statement of prosecutrix recorded u/s 164
Cr.P.C. After closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of the accused
person recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Accused plea is denial, however declined to

adduced evidence in support of the plea of denial.
3|Page

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:-

i) Whether accused on 15-07-18 at about 10.00 pm at village Chinamari,
under Bilasipara PS committed rape on prosecutrix under the age of 16
years?

ii) Whether accused on 15-07-18 at about 10.00 pm at village Chinamari,
under Bilasipara PS committed penetrative sexual assault on

prosecutrix?

ARGUMENT
6. I have heard Id. counsel for both sides. It has been argued by the Id.
defence counsel that prosecution case is not supported by either prosecutrix or
other PWs of the case and from the prosecution witnesses it is reveal that no
such incident was took place as alleged in the ejahar and therefore accused

entitled acquittal.

PROSECUTION EVIDENCE
7. PW-1 is the prosecutrix. She deposed accused Fayzuddin hails from her
village and about 6-7 months back at about 09.00- 10.00 pm while she came out
from her room, she noticed one boy in their compound. Seeing him she shouted
out of fear. Hearing her cry neighbouring people arrived at their home and nabs
the boy and the boy was Fayzuddin. Thereafter they came to know that accused
Fayzuddin came to their house to charge his mobile phone and at that time there
is solar light in her house and accused have neither electricity connection nor
solar light. She deposed on the next day village people took her to police station
and took her signature on a paper and submitted the same before the police
station. Thereafter police recorded her statement, taken her to Dhubri Civil
Hospital for medical examination and produced her before Ld. Magistrate wherein
she made statement before the Ld. Magistrate. She further deposed presently
she cannot recollect what statement she made before the Ld. Magistrate. She
deposed accused Fayzuddin did nothing with her and ejahar was not written by

her. She only put her thumb impression in the ejahar. In cross she stated the
4|Page

content of ejahar was not read over to her before taking her thumb impression.
Accused did not misbehave with her; accused did not touch her.
8. PW-2 Ajidul Ali deposed prosecutrix and accused is his close neighbour.
About 3-4 months back at about 07.00- 08.00 pm accused came to charge his
mobile in the house of prosecutrix and hearing hue and cry in the house of
prosecutrix, he went there and found several persons present in the informant’s
house and heard that accused came to charge his mobile handset. He further
deposed he did not ask prosecutrix what happened to her and prosecutrix did not
disclose her any incident. In cross he stated he did not witness the incident and
he has no actual knowledge about the incident.
9. PW-3 Ali Akbor deposed prosecutrix and accused is his neighbour and on
the day of incident at about 09.00 pm, accused came to the house of prosecutrix
to charge his mobile and noticing this some people apprehended him and there
took place hue and cry. Hearing hue and cry, he went to the house of prosecutrix
and came to know that some people apprehended accused, when accused came
to the house of prosecutrix to charge his mobile. Defence declined to cross
examined PW-3.
10. PW-4 Sanjab Ali deposed prosecutrix and accused is his neighbour and
about 2-3 months back about 08.00- 09.00 pm he heard hue and cry in the
house of prosecutrix. Hearing the same he went to the house of prosecutrix and
heard that accused came to the house of prosecutrix to charge his mobile. In
cross he stated he had stated before the police whatever he stated before the
court.

DISCUSSION, DECISION & REASON THERE OF:-

11. Prosecution allegation leveled against accused Fayzuddin is that on 15-

 

07-18 at about 10.00 pm at village Chinamari, under Bilasipara PS accused
Fayzuddin committed penetrative sexual assault on prosecutrix under the age of
16 years.

12. Admittedly in the case in hand, prosecutrix is aged about 13 years old at
the time of incident i.e she was under the age of 16 years at the time of incident.
Now, let me scrutinized the material and evidence on record to find out whether
evidence on record able to establish prosecution charges of penetrative sexual

assault on prosecutrix by accused Fayzuddin or not.
5|Page

13. PW-1 is the prosecutrix. Prosecutrix in her ejahar alleged that on 14-07-
18 at about 10.00 pm, in absence of her mother, accused Fayzuddin called her
and when she opened the door, accused dragged her towards the tubewell and
committed sexual intercourse with her against her consent gagging her mouth.
14. PW-1 while adducing her evidence before the court stated on the day of
incident at about 09.00- 10.00 pm while she came out from her room, she
noticed one boy in their compound. Seeing him she shouted out of fear. Hearing
her cry neighbouring people arrived at their home and nabs the boy and the boy
was Fayzuddin. Thereafter they came to know that accused Fayzuddin came to
their house to charge his mobile phone.

15. Evidence of prosecutrix pointed she subsequently changed her statement
and bring different story before the court. Evidence of PW-1 made before the
court did not substantiate her statement which she made in her ejahar. PW-1
while adducing before the court, not made any single statement against the
accused Fayzuddin of his involvement in the alleged offence. Thus seen that PW-
1 prosecutrix did not support the prosecution case and she totally overturn the
prosecution case.

16. Prosecutrix in her ejahar further alleged that alleged incident was seen by
Ali Akbor and Ajidul and they apprehend accused Fayzuddin. Said Ali Akbor and
Ajidul were examined by the prosecution as PW-3 and PW-2 respectively.
Evidence of PW-2 and PW-3 also pointed hearing hue and cry in the house of
prosecutrix, they went there and found several persons present in the house of
prosecutrix and later on they came to know that accused came to charge his
mobile handset in the house of prosecutrix. Evidence of PW-2 and PW-3 not
pointed that they had seen accused Fayzuddin committing penetrative sexual
assault on prosecutrix and seeing this they held accused Fayzuddin. Thus, it is
seen that evidence of PW-2 and PW-3 did not substantiate the statement of
Prosecutrix made by her in her ejahar and evidence of PW-2 and PW-3 does not
point any single incriminating material against the accused Fayzuddin.

17. Evidence of PW-4 is that hearing hue and cry in the house of prosecutrix,
he went there and heard that accused came to the house of prosecutrix to
charge his mobile. Evidence of PW-4 pointed he did not see any incident. He only
heard that accused came to the house of prosecutrix to charge his mobile. Thus,

from the evidence of PW-4 nothing appear against the accused Fayzuddin.
6|Page

18. From the scrutiny of entire evidence on record, I find that prosecution
failed to bring home a single material against the accused that on the day of
incident accused committed forceful penetrative sexual assault on PW-1. It is
also seen that in the instant case prosecutrix did not supported her statement
made in the ejahar and before the court she changes her statement and her
statement before the court totally overturn the prosecution case. PW-1, the
alleged victim girl also resile from her earlier statement and she made different
story before the court which makes her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C not believable
beyond all reasonable doubt. Therefore, I come to my definite judicious finding
that prosecution failed to bring home single ingredient of section 375 I.P.C and
section 3 of POCSO Act against the accused Fayzuddin.

19. Therefore, in view of my discussion, and on scrutiny of the entire
evidence on record, I come to my definite finding that prosecution miserably
failed to bring home charge u/s 376(2)(i) I.P.C and section 4 of POCSO Act
against the accused Fayzuddin. Accordingly accused Fayzuddin is acquitted from
the charge of section 376(2)(i) I.P.C and section 4 of POCSO Act and is set at
liberty.

20. Bail bond of accused person shall remain stands for next six (6) months
u/s 437(A) Cr.P.C.

21. Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 20" day of April, 2019 at
Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Dictated and Corrected by me,
(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Typed by,
Swmkhwr Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.
7|Page

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

PW-1 Prosecutrix,
PW-2 Ajidul Ali,
PW-3 Ali Akbor and
PW-4 Sanjab Ali.

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Ejahar,
Ext-2 Statement of prosecutrix recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT EXHIBITS os NIL
COURT WITNESS . NIL

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
