IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017
(G.R. Case No. 252 of 2017)
Titabar P.S. Case No. 122 of 2017

Committing Magistrate:-

Md. S.A. Pathan,

Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate [M],
Titabar Sub-Division,

Jorhat District

State of Assam

-Versus-

1]. Sri Bakul Das,
Son of Sri Gunai Das,
2]. Sri Uddhab Das,
Son of Sri Khagen Das,
[Both are resident of Bandar Chaliha Bahbari,
P.S. Titabar,
District-Jorhat. «1. Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri P.P. Goswami, Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 366 [A]/34 OF INDIAN PENAL CODE;
SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT,

2012 AS WELL AS UNDER SECTION 34 OF IPC

 

Date of Charge : 19-08-2017
Date of prosecution evidence : 31-10-2017; 06-12-2017; 06-01-2018;
22-02-2018; 06-04-2018; 28-06-2018;

& 04-09-2018
Statement of Accused
Recorded on : 03-01-2019
Date of Argument : 09-01-2019
Date of Judgment : 21-01-2019

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Titabar P.S. Case No.
122/2017 under Section 366 [A] of IPC was registered on the basis of a
F.I.R. lodged by Smt. Bhanu Das, mother of the victim girl [hereinafter referred
to as ‘X’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 22/05/2017 [Exhibit-2] the
informant Smt. Bhanu Das [PW-2] who is the mother of the victim girl alleged,
inter-alia, that on 21/05/2017 the accused Bakul Das kidnapped her minor
daughter after inducing her while she came out of her house towards the road
for the purpose of travelling.

On receipt of the ejahar by the In-charge, Madhapur O.P. under
Titabar P.S. the same was entered vide G.D. Entry No. 316 dated 22/05/2017.
The ejahar was sent to Titabar P.S. for registration of a case under proper
section of law. The Officer-in-charge, Titabar P.S., upon receipt of the ejahar,
registered the same vide Titabar P.S. Case No. 122/2017 under Section 366 [A]
of IPC.

During the course of investigation, the statement of the victim
girl was recorded by the I.0. of the case. The victim girl was medically examined
by the doctor, her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was recorded. Police
on completion of investigation filed charge-sheet in the case against the above
named accused persons namely Sri Bakul Das and Sri Uddhab Das u/S. 366 [A]
of IPC vide Charge-sheet No. 60/2017 dated 31-05-2017.

2). The learned Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Titabar Sub-Division,
District-Jorhat after furnishing copies of the relevant documents to the accused
u/S. 207 of Cr.P.C., committed the case to this Court for trial.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the
prosecution in this behalf and on finding ground for presuming that the accused
has committed offences under Section 366 [A]/34 of IPC as well as Section 4 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 read with Section 34

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017
of IPC, the charges were framed, read over and explained to the accused, to

which, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 11 [eleven] numbers of witnesses
including the victim, her mother-cum-informant and I.0. were examined on
behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge against accused.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that they did not
kidnap the victim girl. As per their version, at the time of incident, the victim was
a major girl. The mother of victim had lodged false case against him due to
misunderstanding of fact. The accused persons pleaded innocence. No witness

was adduced by the accused in his defence.

5). I have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor
for the State as well as Sri P.P. Goswami, learned Counsel for the accused who is
facing trial for commission of offence u/S. 366 [A] of IPC as well as Section 4 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 read with Section 34
of IPC.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on 21/05/2017 on the way, the accused Sri Bakul Das
alongwith co-accused Sri Uddhab Das, induced the minor victim
to leave her parent house or to do any act with intent that she
will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse against her will
and consent and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 34 of IPC?

2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused persons named
above committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl
and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 read
with Section 34 of IPC?

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017
DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

7). First of all, let us see the definition of relevant provisions of law to the
charged sections against accused. The section reads as follows:

Section-366 [A]—Procuration of minor girl — Whoever, by any means
whatsoever, induces any minor girl under the age of eighteen years to
go from any place or to do any act with intent that such girl may be, or
knowing that it is likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse with another person shall be punishable with imprisonment

which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Section-4 — Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to

imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

8). To decide the above points and sections of law against accused in
this case, let us examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses
alongwith the documents.

In the instant case the victim has deposed her evidence as PW-1.
In her testimony, she divulged that occurrence took place around six months
back. She started to like accused Bakul Das. On the date of incident accused
Bakul Das came to take her but she refused. At that time, accused Bakul Das
forcibly took her on his motorcycle. It was about 2.00 P.M. It is further version of
the victim that accused Bakul Das took her to the house of his family member
and thereafter the later disappeared after keeping her there. Further version of
this witness is that the accused Bakul Das was accompanied by co-accused
Uddhab Das in the motorcycle. She obstructed accused Bakul Das from taking
her but the later did not pay any heed to her request. On the next day morning
she was offered one glass of water by one lady and soon after consuming it she
became unconscious. Then she went to sleep. When she woke up the family

members told her to go to the police station. Police recorded her statement, took

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017
her before a doctor for medico legal check-up. She was also produced before the
Magistrate who recorded her statement vide Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-1 [1] and
Exhibit-1 [2] are her signatures.

During cross-examination, she stated that she did not call accused
Bakul Das to the field. She stayed in the house of her maternal grandmother.
The victim further stated that when she left her home at that time her aunt, her
mother and her elder brother were present inside the house. She [victim]
categorically stated that on the date of incident she voluntarily accompanied the
accused. She stated her age to be more than eighteen years. She told that

Magistrate did not ask her regarding her date of birth.

9). Smt. Bhanu Das [PW-2] is the mother of victim-cum-informant of
the case. During her testimony, she deposed in the same tune as that of her
ejahar. She exhibited her ejahar as Exhibit-2 and her signature thereon as
Exhibit-2 [1]. It is further stated by this witness that police recovered her
daughter after three days of lodging of the ejahar from the house of one
Jodumoni. Later on, victim narrated the incident before her.

This witness during cross-examination divulged that she cannot say
whether there was love affair between her daughter and accused Bakul Das. She
searched for her daughter when she went missing but nobody told her that they

have witnessed accused Bakul Das taking the victim forcibly.

10). The evidence of Sri Paramananda Das @ Dudu [PW-3] is to
the effect that on the date of incident accused Bakul Das came near him and
requested him to hand over his motorcycle to him as he had to visit a doctor for
treatment of his mother. In the evening hour, the accused Bakul Das returned
back the motorcycle. Thereafter, he heard hullah in the locality. He came to
know from the villagers that accused Bakul Das had brought one girl in his
residence.

This witness was declared hostile by the prosecution and during
cross-examination by prosecution side he denied to have stated before police
that “accused Bakul Das stated before him over mobile phone that he

had gone to Bandar Chaliha to bring one Magic vehicle; that co-accused

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017
Uddhab Das had taken away the motorcycle towards Bandar Chaliha
and hired one Magic vehicle for Rs. 300/-; that he witnessed accused
Bakul Das alongwith the victim; that he question accused Bakul Das
wherefrom the victim hails and to his query accused Bakul Das
informed him that he alongwith co-accused Uddhab Das had kidnapped
the victim from Tipomia and that accused Bakul Das told lie that his
mother was ill, instead he had taken the motorcycle for the purpose of
kidnapping the victim girl from Tipomia”.

This witness during cross-examination confirmed that he did not state
before police that “accused Bakul Das stated before him over mobile
phone that he had gone to Bandar Chaliha to bring one Magic vehicle;
that co-accused Uddhab Das had taken away the motorcycle towards
Bandar Chaliha and hired one Magic vehicle for Rs. 300/-; that he
witnessed accused Bakul Das alongwith the victim; that he question
accused Bakul Das wherefrom the victim hails and to his query accused
Bakul Das informed him that he alongwith co-accused Uddhab Das had
kidnapped the victim from Tipomia and that accused Bakul Das told lie
that his mother was ill, inspite he had taken the motorcycle for the

purpose of kidnapping the victim girl from Tipomia”.

11). The evidence of Sri Narayan Das [PW-4] is to the effect that on
the relevant day accused Bakul Das took the motorcycle of one Sri Paramanda
Das @ Dudu, who also worked as a mason alongwith him. Accused Bakul Das
disclosed before the owner of the motorcycle that his mother is ill and hence he
had to visit a doctor for the aforesaid purpose. On the same day, at about 8.00
P.M., he heard shout in the village and came to know from the villagers that
accused Bakul Das had brought one girl to his house. He witnessed the victim in
the residence of accused Bakul Das.

This witness was also declared hostile by the prosecution side.

 

During cross-examination by prosecution side this witness denied to have stated
before police that “accused Bakul Das stated before him to go to Bandar
Chaliha to bring one Magic vehicle; that co-accused Uddhab Das had

taken away the motorcycle towards Bandar Chaliha; that he went to

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017
Bandar Chaliha area and hired one Magic vehicle for Rs. 300/-; that he
witnessed accused Bakul Das alongwith the victim; that he questioned
accused Bakul Das wherefrom the victim hails and to his query accused
Bakul Das informed him that he alongwith other co-accused Uddhab
Das had kidnapped the victim from Tipomia”.

During cross-examination by defence side this witness denied to have
stated before police that “accused Bakul Das stated before him to go to
Bandar Chaliha to bring one Magic vehicle; that co-accused Uddhab Das
had taken away the motorcycle towards Bandar Chaliha; that he went
to Bandar Chaliha area and hired one Magic vehicle for Rs. 300/-; that
he witnessed accused Bakul Das alongwith the victim; that he
questioned accused Bakul Das wherefrom the victim hails and to his
query accused Bakul Das informed him that he alongwith other co-

accused Uddhab Das had kidnapped the victim from Tipomia”.

12). Sri Bajen Rajkhowa [PW-5] who is the owner of Magic vehicle
stated that on the date of incident at about 6.00 P.M. one Narayan Das,
neighbour came to his residence and told that accused Bakul Das is standing at
Titabar and requested him to give his vehicle on rent. Thereafter, he went
towards Titabar. He then dropped accused Bakul Das, Sri Paramananda Das and
Sri Narayan Das at Bandar Chaliha O.P. under Titabar P.S. When he returned
back home he came to know that accused Bakul Das had brought one girl to his
house from Titabar.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side stated that all
the passengers of the vehicle went normally and they did not make any hue and

cry.

13). The evidence of Dr. Biman Chandra Hazarika [PW-6] is to the
effect that on 23/05/2017 he examined the victim on police requisition and
opined that no any external injury seen at the time of examination. He exhibited
his report vide Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is his signature.

This witness during cross-examination admitted that he did not

mention the age of the injury in his report but he mentioned in his report

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017
[Exhibit-3] that no external injury was found at the time of examination upon the

body of victim.

14). Sri Lakhiram Das [PW-7] during his testimony divulged that on the
date of incident he witnessed accused Bakul Das and co-accused Uddhab Das

taking a girl in between both of them in a motorcycle.

15). Sri Paban Das [PW-8] during his evidence stated that after the
incident he heard from the villagers that one girl from his village fled away with
one boy.

Prosecution side declared this witness hostile and during cross-

 

examination by prosecution, this witness denied to have stated before police that
“he came to know that accused Uddhab Das and Bakul Das took the
victim with them; that accused persons falsely stated that Sri Dudu Das
would bring medicine for the mother of Bakul Das and thereafter took
his motorcycle and instead used the said motorcycle to take the victim

with them”.

16). Evidence of Sri Lakhidhar Das [PW-9] is to the effect that he

does not know anything about the incident.

17). Sri Suren Buragohain [PW-10] who is teacher of Tipomia
Bogodia Girl’s M.E. School stated that he issued certificate vide Exhibit-5 wherein
the date of birth of victim is reflected. He also exhibited his signature in the
Exhibit-5 as Exhibit-5 [1].

This witness during cross-examination stated that as per Exhibit-5
the age of victim was above sixteen years. He admitted that victim did not
produce any age proof at the time of admission in their school. He clarified that

the actual age of the victim might be more than sixteen years.
18). Sri Birendra Bordoloi [PW-11] is the investigating officer of the

case who deposed about the routine steps taken by him during investigation.

After taking charge of investigation he recorded statement of the informant at

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017
the police station itself. Thereafter, he proceeded towards the place of
occurrence and searched for both the victim as well as accused at Bandar Chaliha
village but he could not find them. While returning back to the police station he
recovered the victim girl alongwith accused Bakul Das near SDPO Office at
Titabar. During investigation, he seized the motorcycle vide seizure-list [Exhibit-
4] wherein Exhibit-4 [2] is his signature which was returned back to the original
owner. He also seized the school certificate of the victim girl from Tipomia M.E.
School vide seizure-list [Exhibit-5]. The I.0. drew Sketch Map of the place of
occurrence with index vide Exhibit-6 wherein Exhibit-6 [1] is his signature. On
completion of investigation, he submitted charge-sheet against both the accused
persons vide Exhibit-7 wherein Exhibit-7 [1] is his signature.

The 1.0. confirmed that witness Sri Paramananda Das @ Dudu
[PW-3] during his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. stated before him that
“accused Bakul Das stated before him over mobile phone that he had
gone to Bandar Chaliha to bring one Magic vehicle; that co-accused
Uddhab Das had taken away the motorcycle towards Bandar Chaliha
and hired one Magic vehicle for Rs. 300/-; that he witnessed accused
Bakul Das alongwith the victim; that he question accused Bakul Das
wherefrom the victim hails and to his query accused Bakul Das
informed him that he alongwith co-accused Uddhab Das had kidnapped
the victim from Tipomia and that accused Bakul Das told lie that his
mother was ill, inspite he had taken the motorcycle for the purpose of
kidnapping the victim girl from Tipomia”.

Witness Sri Narayan Das [PW-4] during his statement under
Section 161 Cr.P.C. divulged before him that “accused Bakul Das stated
before him to go to Bandar Chaliha to bring one Magic vehicle; that co-
accused Uddhab Das had taken away the motorcycle towards Bandar
Chaliha; that he went to Bandar Chaliha area and hired one Magic
vehicle for Rs. 300/-; that he witnessed accused Bakul Das alongwith
the victim; that he questioned accused Bakul Das wherefrom the victim
hails and to his query accused Bakul Das informed him that he
alongwith other co-accused Uddhab Das had kidnapped the victim from

Tipomia”.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017
10

The 1.0. further confirmed that witness Sri Paban Das [PW-8]
stated before him under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that “he came to know that
accused Uddhab Das and Bakul Das took the victim with them; that
accused persons falsely stated that Sri Dudu Das would bring medicine
for the mother of Bakul Das and thereafter took his motorcycle and
instead used the said motorcycle to take the victim with them”.

The I.O. during cross-examination by defence side stated that the
victim disclosed in the ejahar that she went at 4.00 P.M. on the date of incident
for travelling purpose and he found the accused as well victim while they were
walking on the street. He confirmed that he did not record statement of any
witness when he recovered the victim as well as accused. Further, he confirmed
that he did not record confessional statement of co-accused Uddhab Das in

connection with the case.

19). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that the
victim [PW-1] knew the accused prior to the incident.

In her testimony [PW-1] divulged that occurrence took place
around six months back. She started to like accused Bakul Das. On the date of
incident accused Bakul Das came to take her but she refused. At that time,
accused Bakul Das forcibly took her on his motorcycle. It was about 2.00 P.M. It
is further version of the victim that accused Bakul Das took her to the house of
your family member and thereafter the later disappeared after keeping her there.
Further version of this witness is that the accused Bakul Das was accompanied
by co-accused Uddhab Das in the motorcycle. She obstructed accused Bakul Das
from taking her but the later did not pay any heed to her request. On the next
day morning she was offered one glass of water by one lady and soon after
consuming it she became unconscious. Then she went to sleep. When she woke
up the family members told her to go to the police station. Police recorded her
statement, took her before a doctor for medico legal check-up. She was also
produced before the Magistrate who recorded her statement vide Exhibit-1
wherein Exhibit-1 [1] and Exhibit-1 [2] are her signatures.

During cross-examination, she stated that she did not call accused

Bakul Das to the field. She stayed in the house of her maternal grandmother.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017

10
11

The victim further stated that when she left her home at that time her aunt, her
mother and her elder brother were present inside the house. categorically stated
that on the date of incident she voluntarily accompanied the accused. She stated
her age to be more than eighteen years. She admitted that Magistrate did not

ask her regarding her date of birth.

20). From the evidence of Smt. Bhanu Das [PW-2] who is the mother of
victim-cum-informant of the case it is seen that she deposed in the same tune
as that of her ejahar. She exhibited her ejahar as Exhibit-2 and her signature
thereon as Exhibit-2 [1]. It is further stated by this witness that police recovered
her daughter after three days of lodging of the ejahar from the house of one
Jodumoni. Later on, victim narrated the incident before her.

This witness during cross-examination divulged that she cannot say
whether there was love affair between her daughter and accused Bakul Das. She
searched for her daughter when she went missing but nobody told her that they

have witnessed accused Bakul Das taking the victim forcibly.

21). The informant [PW-2] had contradicted the version of I.0. [PW-11]
who stated that he found the accused as well as victim while they were walking
on the street whereas the informant [PW-2] stated that police recovered her
daughter [PW-1] from the house of one Jodumoni whom the I.O. has not

examined in the instant case for the reasons best known to it.

22). On a close perusal of 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim who is
the star witness of the case [Exhibit-1] recorded by the learned Magistrate on
24/05/2017 it is seen that she met accused Bakul Das in a marriage ceremony
about four days ago where the accused gave proposal to marry her. Accordingly,
accused Bakul Das took her mobile number. On last Sunday, he called her and
invited her to the field near the school. Accordingly, she went to that field at
about 3.00 P.M. where accused Bakul Das gave proposal before her to elope with
him and thereafter accused Bakul Das took her on his bike alongwith his friend.

The victim gave her age before the learned Magistrate as 16 [sixteen] years.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017

11
12

23). Incident of the case took place on 21/05/2017. As per version of
Sri Suren Buragohain [PW-10] who is the teacher of Tipomia Bogodia Girls’ M.E.
School, who stated that he mentioned the age of victim in the Exhibit-5 as per
Admission Register of school to be 18/09/2001. From the above piece of
evidence of this witness it is seen that victim was aged 16 years at the time of
incident. It is interesting to note herein that prosecution side as well as the I.O.
of the case examined the doctor [PW-6] but the doctor did not state the age of

victim for the reasons best known to him.

24). It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole evidence of a
child witness is permissible, if such witness is found competent to testify and the
court, after careful scrutiny of its evidence.

However, in the present case, the victim has not been found
consistent on the material particulars with regard to the incident which is not
even supported by her statement given before the learned Magistrate under
Section 164 Cr.P.C.

25). On appreciation of the evidence on record as well as other facts and
circumstances of the case, it is found that there is no proof of forceful abduction
of the victim girl by the accused persons namely Sri Bakul Das and Sri Uddhab
Das.

Victim categorically deposed in her evidence under Section 164
Cr.P.C. that she voluntarily travelled with the accused Bakul Das in his
motorcycle. She did not specifically depose that accused induced her to leave the
house of her parent to go with them. She did not state that she was sexually

assaulted by either accused of this case.

26). On scrutinizing the evidence on record it is seen that no case has
been made out against accused persons namely Sri Bakul Das and Sri Uddhab
Das to warrant their conviction under Section 366 [A] IPC as well as under
Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 read with
Section 34 of IPC, as victim stated nothing in her statement under Section 164

Cr.P.C. [Exhibit-1] that accused had physical relation with her during her stay

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017

12
13

with the accused Sri Bakul Das in his residence. Prosecution has not been able to
make out a case against the accused persons namely Sri Bakul Das and Sri
Uddhab Das under the aforesaid sections of law beyond reasonable doubt, for
which, I am of the opinion that the accused persons are entitled to acquittal

under benefit of doubt which I accordingly do.

27). In the result, the accused Sri Bakul Das and Sri Uddhab Das are
acquitted of the charges under Section 366 [A] of IPC and Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 read with 34 of IPC.

Accused persons are on bail. The bail bond of accused is extended
for another 06 [six] months from today as per provision of Section 437-A
Cr.P.C.

28). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 21st day of
January 2019.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-14

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017

13
14

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURES:-

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

PW-1 Victim girl.

PW-2 Smt. Bhanu Das, mother of victim-cum-informant
of the case.

PW-3 Sri Paramananda Das, mason.

PW-4 Sri Narayan Das, mason.

PW-5 Sri Bajen Rajkhowa, businessman.

PW-6 Sri Biman Chandra Hazarika, M.O. of the case.

PW-7 Sri Lakhiram Das, businessman.

PW-8 Sri Paban Das, another businessman.

PW-9 Sri Lakhidar Das, businessman.

PW-10 Sri Suren Buragohain, Teacher of Tipomia Bagodia
Girls’ M.E. School.

PW-11 Sri Birendra Bordoloi, I.0O. of the case.

 

 

 

COURT WITNESS:- NIL
EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Statement of the victim recorded by the Magistrate
under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Medico legal report of victim

Exhibit-4 & 6 Seizure-list

Exhibit-5 Certificate

Exhibit-7 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index

Exhibit-8 Charge-sheet

 

 

MATERIAL EXHIBIT NO-1:- NIL

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017 14
SPECIAL CASE NO. 70 OF 2017

15

15
