IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, MORIGAON
Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 37/2017

Present : Mr. P. Das
Special Judge, Morigaon.

State of Assam

-VS-

Md. Inamul Hoque _...... Accused
Date of Charge : 22.10.2018.
Date of Argument : 18.03.2019.
Date of Judgment : 11.04.2019.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State :- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the Accused :- Mr. Rajaul Karim, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

Ls The prosecution case in brief is that on 07.09.2016 at about 12.30 AM, when
the informant-cum-victim was sleeping on her bed, accused Inamul Hoque, son of Md.
Abdul Mutaleb of village Dewaguri under Laharighat P.S. in the district of Morigaon
had entered into her house by opening the window of her house and took her 25
meters away from her house and committed rape upon her. On 08.09.2016, the
informant lodged a case before Laharighat P.S and accordingly, the O.C. of Laharighat
P.S. registered the case vide Laharighat PS case No. 388/16 U/S 4 of the POCSO Act,
2012.

2. After investigation of the case, charge sheet was filed against the accused.
Subsequently, vide order dated 22.10.2018, charge was framed against the accused
u/s 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The charge upon

being denied by the accused led to commencement of the trial.
3. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
Whether the accused Md. Inamul Hoque is guilty of committing an offence

punishable u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. Heard learned public prosecutor for the State and learned defence counsel for

 

the accused person. Perused the relevant materials on record.

5. Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012,
punishes the offence of penetrative sexual assault committed upon a child i.e. person

below 18 years.

6. In this case, the prosecutrix adduced her evidence as PW-1. Considering the
nature of the evidence adduced by the prosecutrix and after hearing the learned
prosecution, the prosecution evidence was closed after the evidence of the
prosecutrix. The prosecutrix/PW-1 stated in her evidence that her age at the time of
the incident was 18 years. She further stated in her evidence that she had a love affair
with the accused, which was not approved by her parents and that thereupon she had
eloped with him voluntary and when she came back home, her parents forced her to
lodge this case. The prosecutrix further stated in her evidence that after lodging of this
case, she got married to the accused and presently staying with him as his wife. She
proved as Exhibit 1, the ejahar lodged by her and her signature thereon as Exhibit 1
(1). She also proved her statement recorded before the learned Magistrate as Exhibit 2
and her signatures thereon as Exhibit 2 (1) and 2(2). The prosecutrix further stated in
her evidence that she does not yet have children from the marriage with the accused
and that after she voluntarily eloped with the accused, he did not commit any illicit
intercourse with her. The prosecutrix was cross examined by the defence and in cross-
examination she stated that now, she and the accused are married and living a
conjugal life together. She further stated in her cross-examination that the accused is

innocent and should be acquitted.
Ds Therefore, on the basis of aforesaid evidence of the prosecutrix, the
ingredients of Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO)
Act, 2012, with which the accused has been charged with in this trial, are not made

out.

8. Consequently, the prosecution case fails due to lack of evidence and the

accused is entitled to be acquitted.

ORDER
9. On the basis of the evidence and relevant materials on record of the case, the
accused Md. Inamul Hoque stands acquitted. The accused, if in detention, shall be set

at liberty forthwith, if not wanted in any other case.
10. —_ His bail bonds and sureties stand discharged.

11. A copy of this judgment and order shall be sent to the learned District
Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with Section 365 of the Cr.PC.

12. Given under my hand and seal on this the 11™ day of April, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by me (P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
(P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
APPENDIX
A. Prosecution witness
1. PW-1 :- Prosecutrix.
B. Defence witness : Nil.
B. Prosecution Exhibit :
1. Ext.1 :- The ejahar.
2. Ext.2 :- The statement of Prosecutrix recorded U/s 164 Cr. P.C.
C. Defense witness : Nil.

D. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

(P Das)

Special Judge, Morigaon
Special Sessions (POCSO) Case No. 37/2017
11.04.2019:

Accused Md. Inamul Hoque is present along with

learned defence counsel.

The judgment, in separate sheet is ready and
pronounced in the open court. On the basis of the relevant
materials and evidence on record, the accused Md. Inamul
Hoque stands acquitted. The accused, if in detention, shall
be set at liberty forthwith, if not wanted in any other case.

His bail bonds and sureties stand discharged.

A copy of this judgment and order shall be sent to
the learned District Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with
section 365 Cr.P.C.

The instant case is disposed of on the aforesaid

terms.

Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
