IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS J UDGE :: :: :: :: SIVASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions J udge cum Special J udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 u/ s 6 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Demow PS Case No. 05/2016 )

State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Suchen Konwar .......... Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P
For the accused ; Mr. D.K. Gohain, Advocate
(State defence counsel)

Date of framing Charge: 20.05.16
Dates of Evidence 15.07.16, 04.02.17, 27.03.17, 19.06.17,

19.12.17, 18.09.18, 28.11.18, 12.02.18
Date of S/D ; 15.03.19
Dates of Argument ; 22.08.19 & 16.12.19
Date of J udgment 23.12.19

UDGMENT
1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 05.01.2016, informant Smt.

Usha Konwar, lodged an FIR with O/C, Demow PS, alleging, inter alia, that
prior to six months of filing the FIR, on several occasions, in absence of other
family members in the house, accused Sri Suchen Konwar committed rape on
victim 'MK' (name withheld) by enticing the victim in her house. As a result,
the victim was five months pregnant. Subsequently, her pregnancy was

terminated in a Nursing Home at Dibrugarh.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Demow PS Case No. 05/2016, u/s 4 of

POCSO Act was registered and investigated into. During investigation, victim

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 1 of 16
was sent for medical examination. Statement of the victim was recorded u/s
164 CrP.C. Accordingly accused was arrested and remanded to judicial
custody. During investigation, the 1.0. has seized the original birth certificate
of the victim and also seized one medical discharge certificate from Sanjeevani
Hospital, Dibrugarh. On completion of investigation, 1.0. has submitted
Charge-Sheet against the above named accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

3. Upon taking cognizance on the Charge-Sheet, vide order dated
20.05.2016, my learned predecessor in office has framed the charge u/s 6 of
POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to stand trial. During trial, prosecution has examined eleven witnesses

including two M.O. and 1.0.

4. Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined u/s 313 CrP.C. After hearing both the sides u/s 232 CrP.C, and
observing that it was not a case of no-evidence, accused was called upon to
enter into defence to which he declined to adduce evidence in defence.
Defence case is of total denial and false implication. Defence also took the plea
that due to property dispute, with the father of the victim, he was falsely

implicated in this case.

Dis | have heard argument of learned Special PP Mr. Srimanta Gogoi
and Mr. D.K. Gohain, learned State defence counsel and gone through the

evidence on record. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE_ -

6. (i) | What was the age of the victim on the date of incident?

(li) Whether prior to six months of filing FIR on 05.01.2016, accused
Suchen Konwar committed the offence of penetrative sexual assault
(rape) on the victim on several occasions and caused her pregnant and
thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act, 2012?

DECI SION AND REASONS THEREOF :
7, PW 1 the victim MK in her evidence deposed that accused is her

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 2 of 16
uncle and he resides in the nearby house. About a year back, (deposing on
15.07.2016) accused committed sexual physical relation with her. Prior to this
accused did similar incidents with her on 4-5 occasions. On stopping of her
menstrual periods, her mother took her to Dibrugarh and upon confirming her
pregnancy, same was aborted. After this, by discussing with villagers, her
mother lodged the FIR. Police got her medically examined. Police also brought
her to Court where she gave her statement vide Ext. 1. In her cross
examination, she admitted that due to abdominal pain, her mother took her to
Moran and then they went to Dibrugarh. After examination, she was admitted
in hospital at Dibrugarh for 2 days. She cannot say whether doctor has aborted
her pregnancy at Dibrugarh or not. While giving her statement in Court,
members of Mahila Samittee has tutored her for giving the statement. Accused
never intimidated her and also never asked her for not to disclose the incident
to others.

8. PW-2 Dr. Prahlad Bordoloi of Sanjivani Hospital, Dibrugarh in his
evidence deposed that on 29.12.2015 he examined one Miss Bina Konwar and
upon examination she was diagnosed as missed-abortion and vaginal cyst. He
did dilatation and curettage and vaginal cystectomy under sedation on 30.12.
2018. She was discharged on 31.12.2015. He has proved his report vide Ext. 2.
He has issued Ext. 2 on police requisition. In his cross examination, Dr. Dr.
Prahlad Bordoloi deposed that as per certificate Ext. 2, he has not examined
victim MK. The dilatation and curettage actually means abortion of dead fetus.
Before conducting D & C, he has not referred the matter to police or any other
authority. In Ext. 2, there was no mention of issuing the certificate on police
requisition. He denied that, he has conducted the D & C illegally and issued Ext.
2 on demand of parents of Bina Konwar. In Ext. 2, he has not mentioned the
residential address of the patient or her parents. In Ext. 2, he has not

mentioned the way how the minor got conceived.

9. PW-3 Smt. Usha Konwar in her evidence deposed that about a

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 3 of 16
year back, while she returned for the residence of her eldest daughter after
Staying there for about a month, on noticing that her daughter MK was
pregnant for about three month, she asked her about the incident leading to
her pregnancy. Initially she was reluctant to tell her and on scolding her, she
reported her that she was pregnant through accused Suchen Konwar. On this,
village meetings were held and advised them to file a case. Accordingly she
lodged FIR at Demow PS. Exbt. 3 is the FIR. At that time, victim MK was aged
about 13 years. She brought her age certificate issued by Head Master Ekarani
Nahar Habi M. E. School, Sivasagar. M. Exbt. 1 is her age certificate, in which
date of Birth of victim was shown as 03.01.2002. Subsequently her pregnancy
was aborted by them with the consent of her daughter. In her cross
examination PW 3 deposed that on non-telling of the name of the person
responsible, on physically assaulting the victim MK by her, she disclosed the
name of the accused. Pregnancy was terminated at Dibrugarh prior to filling to
filling of this case. Thereafter case was filed under the pressure from Mahila
Samity Members. Her daughter was taken to doctor by telling him having low
blood pressure of her daughter. Victim did not tell her in detail as to how the
accused cohabitated with her. On her pregnancy or even before taking her to
Dibrugarh, immediately, she did not file any case. She denied that accused
was no way involved with the pregnancy of her daughter. She also denied that
She has instigated her daughter to implicate the accused by physically
assaulting her. M. Exbt. 1 was obtained on 27.02.2017. She denied that she
has procured false age certificate by pursuing the School Master. Accused has
separate house and landed property. She admitted that there are some dispute
on share of paternal property. Accused also did not maintain a good relation
with the neighbours after this case. She denied that out of property dispute,
She filed this false FIR against him.

10. PW-4 Sri D Konwar in his evidence deposed that accused is his

elder brother. Victim MK is his daughter. Presently she is reading in Class VII

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 4 of 16
and aged about 10-12 years. About a year back, while detecting that his
daughter was not subjected to menstruation period, she was taken to Doctor
by his wife. Doctor after examining her, reported that she was pregnant. On
asking, she reported them that she was pregnant through accused Suchen
Konwar. On this his wife lodged FIR at Demow PS. In his cross examination,
PW-4 Sri Duleswar Konwar deposed that the fact of pregnancy was detected
before 3-4 days of filling the case. On knowing her pregnancy, she was taken
to Dibrugarh and pregnancy was terminated. Accused used to visit his
residence. He resides in a separate house. He denied that while giving
Statement to police, he did not tell that “victim reported them that she was
pregnant through accused Suchen Konwar.” He denied that accused was no
way involved with the pregnancy of his daughter. He denied that he is
deposing falsely on being tutored by others. Accused has separate house and
landed property. Accused got some more share in land and he got less amount
of land. He denied that out of property dispute, he filed this false FIR against
him. They have filed this case on being forced by Mahila Samity.

11. PW-5 Sri Mridul Gogoi in his evidence deposed that on
05.01.2016, a village meeting was called and ongoing in the meeting, he
learnt that the meeting was called on the allegation of commission of rape on
the victim MK by her uncle/accused. In the meeting the victim MK has
reported that the accused has committed the rape on her. VDP Aditya Bora,
Putul Gogoi and several others were present in the meeting. On knowing this,
he left the meeting. Thereafter, he came to know that accused Suchen was
handed over to police by public. Police took his signature in Exbt. 4 seizure list.
In cross examination, PW-5 deposed that while giving statement to police, he
did not tell that “victim MK reported in the meeting that accused Suchen has
committed on her rape.” He denied that he is deposing falsely that victim MK
reported in the meeting that accused Suchen has committed on her rape.

Police took his signature in Exbt. 4 after 2 days of the meeting at his

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 5 of 16
residence. He has no knowledge of seizure of any certificate of age. While he

was present in the village meeting, Suchen was not present in the meeting.

12. PW-6 Smt. Gunati Gogoi in her evidence deposed on 05.01.2016,
a village meeting was called at the residence of informant. In the meeting
victim MK has reported that she was pregnant of about 2 months through
accused Suchen Konwar. Accused Suchen was present there. In the meeting
accused Suchen was also questioned and he confessed the fact of making the
victim pregnant. At that time victim MK was a student of Class VII. In her
cross examination, PW-6 deposed that he has no personal knowledge about
the incident except attending in the meeting. The meeting was organized by
Suryamukhi Self Help group of their village. She did not present in the meeting
till end. Police did not interrogate her in this case. She denied that she has
deposed falsely that “In the meeting victim MK has reported that she was
pregnant of about 2 months through accused Suchen Konwar. She denied that
accused Suchen was not present there. She denied that in the meeting

accused Suchen did not confessed the fact of making the victim pregnant.

13. PW-7 Smt. Rina Konwar in her evidence deposed that on 05.01.
2016, a village meeting was called at the residence of informant. In the
meeting victim MK has reported that she was raped by accused Suchen
Konwar and was pregnant through accused. Accused Suchen came in the
meeting. On this Suchen was taken to police station. Subsequently mother of
the victim informed her that pregnancy was terminated in hospital. In her
cross examination, PW-7 deposed that she has no personal knowledge about
the incident except attending in the meeting. While giving statement to police,
she has not stated that “In the meeting victim MK has reported that she was
raped by accused Suchen Konwar and was pregnant through accused. Accused
Suchen came in the meeting. On this Suchen was taken to police station.” She

denied that accused Suchen was not present in the meeting.

14. PW-8 Sri Putul Gogoi in his evidence deposed that on

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 6 of 16
05.01.2016, while he was VDP Secretary, he was called in the village meeting
held at the residence of Sri Duleswar Konwar. He arrived at the meeting late.
Subsequently, he heard that accused has some quarrel with victim MK. He also
heard that accused Suchen has physical relation with victim MK. At that time
victim MK was aged about 14-15 years from her appearance. In his cross
examination, PW-8 Sri Putul Gogoi deposed that he has no personal knowledge
about the incident. He was not allowed to stay in the meeting as related to

matter of women.

15. PW-9 Dr. Pranab Kr. Dutta of Sivasagar Civil Hospital, in his
evidence deposed that on 06.01.2016 he examined the victim in connection
with Demow PS Case No. 05/2016 and upon examination he found hymen
absent. The Uterus bulky. Radiological examination shows that left wrist joint
reveals incomplete fusion and left elbow joints shows complete fusion of
epiphysis. PW 9 also opined that victim is above the age of 13 years and below
the age of 17 years and that the findings were suggesting that the girl has

undergone abortion recently. He proved his report as Ext. 5.

16. PW-10 Sri Jadumani Bora in his evidence deposed that on
05.01.2016, while he was in charge Gaonburah of Laguabari Village, some
women from the said village called him to their place by informing incident of
rape by accused Suchen Konwar on victim MK. On arriving there, found that
several villagers have gathered at that house and one informal meeting was
going on. Victim MK and Suchen Konwar were present there. In the said
meeting in his presence, accused Suchen Konwar admitted that he has
committed rape on victim MK and that victim MK was made pregnant. In the
meeting it was also disclosed that pregnancy of victim MK was aborted at
Dibrugarh. On this admission by accused, he and other villagers informed the
matter to Demow PS over phone. After sometime, police came there and took
the accused and victim MK to police station. In his cross examination, PW-10

deposed that the meeting was informal. While giving statement to police, he

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 7 of 16
has not stated that “accused Suchen Konwar admitted that victim MK was
made pregnant by him.” He has no personal knowledge, as to how victim
become pregnant. No detail discussion was made as to how she become

pregnant.

17. PW-11 Sri Chittaranjan Iswary, the 1/O in his evidence deposed
that during investigation, he has examined the informant and victim MK at PS
campus. On the same day, victim was sent for medical examination.
Thereafter, he went to the place of occurrence and drawn a sketch map of the
PO. Exbt. 6 is the said sketch map. Accused Sushen Konwar was handed over
to PS by local public. On the next day victim was sent to Court for recording
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C and for detail medical examination at Sivasagar
Civil Hospital. Accused was also sent to Court for Custody. During investigation,
he has collected the medical report and statement given by victim in Court. He
has seized the original birth certificate of the victim as produced by informant.
Exbt. 4 is the seizure list. In the seizure list, date of birth of the victim was
mentioned as 03.01.2002. On 30.01.2016, He has visited Sanjeevani Hospital
and seized one hospital register and released the same in Zimma. Exbt. 7 is
the seizure list. He has recorded statement of Dr Prahlad Bordoloi of
Sanjeevani Hospital. He produced one medical certificate relating to treatment
of the victim by him. On completion of investigation, he has submitted charge
Sheet against the accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act. Exbt. 8 is the charge sheet. In
his cross examination, PW-11 Sri Chittaranjan Iswary deposed that he has not
seen the original birth certificate or its copy in the case record. He has not
kept the copy with seizure list. The Original discharge certificate of the victim
was also not made part of the seizure list. Exbt. 2 is the certificate collected
from Dr. Prahlad Bordoloi. In Exbt. 2, the name patient was made as Bina
Konwar. Witness Duleswar Konwar while giving statement to him did not state
that “victim MK reported to them that she was pregnant through accused

Suchen Konwar.” While accused was handed over to police, he was suffering

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 8 of 16
from neck pain as reported by doctor in inspection memo. He has not sent the

accused for recording his confessional statement in Court.

18. From the above evidence on record, let me decide the points

formulated for just decision of this case.

19. Point No. |: So far age of the victim is concerned, from the
evidence of PW 1 the victim, it appears that while adducing evidence she
claimed her age as 14 years. PW 3, the mother of the victim deposed that at
the time of incident, victim was aged about 13 years. She has proved one
school certificate showing the date of birth of the victim as M. Exbt. 1 in which
the date of birth of the victim is mentioned as 03.01.2002. PW 4, the father of
the victim claimed the age of the victim 10 to 12 years. During cross
examination, PW 3 admitted that M. Exbt. 1 was obtained on 27.02.2017 but
She denied that she procured false age certificate. PW 9 the M.O., who has
examined the victim after filing of this case in his evidence deposed that
basing on physical, dental and radiological report he is of the opinion that
victim is above the age of 13 years but below 17 years of age. He proved the
medical report as Exbt. 5. During cross examination of medical officer, no
challenge was made to the above findings on age which got corroboration
from oral evidence of the PW 1, PW 3 and M. Exbt. 1 the age certificate,
according to which at the time of incident the victim was aged about 14 years.
As such, | hold that at the time of alleged incident the victim was a minor and

aged below 14 years.

20. Point No. Il: So far allegation of penetrative sexual assault is
concerned, from the evidence of PW 1 the victim, it appears that on stopping
her menstruation she was taken Dibrugarh and her pregnancy got confirmed
and on her consent abortion was caused at Dibrugarh. PW 3, the mother of
the victim also deposed that on noticing the symptom of pregnancy of about
three months, on asking, the victim confirmed the fact of her pregnancy.

Prosecution has examined Dr. P. Bordoloi of Dibrugarh as PW 2, who in his

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 9 of 16
evidence categorically stated that on 29.12.2015, he examined one Bina
Konwar, who attended on her own with a history of bleeding per vagina last
three months and after examination, she was diagnosed as missed abortion
and accordingly he did dilation and curettage which actually means abortion of
dead foetus. Upon examination, PW 9 opined that findings were suggested
that girl has undergone abortion recently. At this point, it may be mentioned
here that at Dibrugarh, as per the evidence of PW 2, the abortion was done on
Bina Konwar. Though the name of the victim substantially differs, but her
parents name were same as mentioned in the report. It might happen that for
hiding the identity of the victim, her name was changed on records at the time
of abortion by PW 2 at Dibrugarh. However the evidence of PW 9 that the
victim has undergone abortion recently was never under challenge from the
defence. From the evidence of other witnesses, who has attended the village
meeting, it is clear that there was a discussion on the matter of pregnancy of
the victim. Though some challenge has been made as to the person
responsible for the pregnancy, but the fact that at the relevant time of filing
the FIR the victim has undergone abortion remains unshaken. As such, as the
victim was 14 years of age and admittedly unmarried and she had to undergo
abortion this fact clearly leads to show that she was sexually abused by way of

penetrative sexual assault on her.

21. Having coming to the conclusion as above, now the prime
question for decision is whether the accused is responsible for causing
pregnancy of the victim. As narrated herein above, the victim in her evidence
Stated that about a year back i.e. in the month of J uly 2015, accused Suchen
Konwar, who was her paternal uncle has committed physical sexual relation
with her and prior to this, on 4-5 occasions accused did physical relation with
her. In her cross examination victim admitted that during investigation, police
brought her to Court and she gave her statement on being tutored by the

Mahila Samity members. She further admitted that accused never put her

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 10 of 16
under threat or never restrained her from disclosing the same to others. PW 3,
the mother of the victim in her evidence deposed that on seeing the
pregnancy symptom, while she asked the victim, initially she was reluctant and
on scolding her, the victim reported that she was pregnant through the
accused and on this a village meeting was held and subsequently she lodged
the FIR. In her cross examination PW 3 disclosed that on non-disclosing the
name of the person responsible, she physically assaulted the victim and then
only she named the accused. PW 3 further admitted that the victim did not tell
her in detail as to how accused cohabited with her. She denied the defence
suggestion of falsely implicating the accused. PW 4, the father of the victim
also stated that from the victim he came to know that she was pregnant
through the accused. In his cross he denied the defence suggestion that
before police he has not stated regarding informing by the victim that she was
pregnant through the accused. However this fact was confirmed by the |.0. As
such, this vital part of evidence appears to be exaggerated. Similarly, PW 5,
PW 6, PW 7 and PW 10 in their evidence stated that there was a village
meeting on the matter of pregnancy of the victim and in the said meeting the
victim disclosed that she was pregnant through the accused. But during cross
examination these witnesses admitted that they have not stated before police
regarding disclosure by the victim. PW 6 and PW 10 also stated that during
question to the accused he confessed the guilt, but in their cross thy admitted
that no such statement was made before police. As such, this part of evidence,
l.e. confession of the accused as well as disclosure by the victim before the
villagers is apparently exaggerated. This being the vital part of evidence roping
the accused with the alleged crime, appears to be exaggerated and hence it

amounts to contradiction.

22. So far extra judicial confession before the villagers by the
accused is concerned, the evidence of PW 5, PW 6, PW 7 and PW 10 being

exaggerated cannot be relied upon to hold the accused guilty. Under these

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 11 of 16
facts and circumstances, the only evidence remains Is of the victim.

23. The other disturbing factor is the time of alleged crime and
pregnancy thereof. On looking at the facts and circumstances of this case, it
appears that the alleged physical relation was made in the month of J uly 2015
and prior to that victim has stated that neither she was threatened nor she
was restrained by the accused to suppress the matter. Even then admittedly
victim did not disclose the fact of physical relationship by the accused with her
on 5-6 occasions and remains silent for about three months. As per the
medical report she was aborted on 30.12.2015. As such, though having
complaint of stopping of menstruation for three months, it will become

doubtful as to whether the victim was pregnant through the accused.

24. The other disturbing aspect as appeared in the evidence of PW 3
is that only after physical assault by her, the victim disclosed the name of the
accused. There is admission in the cross examination of PW 3 that there are
some dispute regarding paternal property. PW 4 has admitted that accused got
more share in the paternal property and he got less. Though he denied of

having any dispute, but his wife, i.e. PW 3 has admitted that fact.

25. The other aspect is filing of FIR due to pressurize by Mahila
Samity members as admitted by PW 3. PW 1 in her cross also admitted that
she gave her statement in Court u/s 164 CrP.C. on being tutored by the Mahila

Samity members.

26. As stated earlier, non-disclosure of the name of the accused in
the village meeting, I.e. as discussed earlier being exaggerated and also the
fact that so called extra judicial confession by the accused was also
exaggerated and particularly the fact that there is nothing in the evidence of
the victim that in the meeting she disclosed the name of the accused before
the villagers clearly leads me to take a view that in this case the applicability of

Section 29 of POCSO Act, 2012 regarding presumption appears to be rebutted.

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 12 of 16
2/. Section 29 of POCSO Act provides for drawing of presumption
about truthfulness of the evidence of the victim. Hon'ble Gauhati High Court in
the case of Latu Das Vs State of Assam (Crl. Appeal (J) No. 55 of 2018 )
decided on 29.10.2019 has interpreted the application of Section 29 as follows:

“24. We also take note of the presumption under Section 29 of the
POCSO Act which provides that when a person is prosecuted for
committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
Section 3, 5, 7 and section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall
presume that such person has committed or abetted or attempted
to commit the offence as the case may be, unless the contrary is
proved. The above statutory presumption, which a Court is bound to
raise in a prosecution for offence under Section 3, 5, 7 and 9, of the
POCSO Act put a reverse burden on the accused, which is an
exception to the general principle of criminal justice, that burden to
prove the guilt beyond reasonable doubt lies on the prosecution,
and the accused has a right to remain silent. The statutory
presumption under Section 29 of the POCSO Act creates a
restriction on the accused’s right to remain silent. Because once
there are adequate material for raising a presumption under Section
29 of the PCSO Act, the special court is justified in recording
conviction on the basis of such presumption, unless the accused
rebut, the presumption, or proves the contrary, to what was/were
the basis of raising presumption.

25. However, one must bear in mind that presumption Is not in itself
evidence, it is only inference of fact drawn from other known or
proved facts; and as such, in order to draw a presumption, statutory
or otherwise, there must be existence of proved facts, from which a
presumption can be raised. Therefore, presumption under Section
29 of the POCSO Act, does not absolve the prosecution from its
usual burden to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable
doubt. It only lessen its burden to some extent and put a
corresponding burden on the accused. Initial burden in a criminal
case IS always on the prosecution to bring on record reasonable
evidence and materials to prove that the accusation brought against
the accused is true. Once such evidence or materials are brought on
record prima facie establishing the case of the prosecution, then
only the Court is obliged to raise presumption under Section 29 of
the POCSO Act and in that situation only the burden stands shifted
to the accused to rebut the presumption. If the accused fails to
rebut the presumption, Court is justified to hold the accused guilty
of offence under Section 3, 5, 7 & 9 of the POCSO Act.”

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 13 of 16
28. In view of above, looking at the evidence of the victim (PW 1)
alone, and particularly having no evidence to show that the accused used to
visit the residence of the victim, spending time in that house for committing
physical relationship with the victim, | am of the opinion that the evidence of
the victim is not free from doubt and trustworthiness. Her evidence alone
without any further corroboration cannot be treated as trustworthy. Section 29

of Pocso Act cannot be applied in this case.

29. From the totality of the fact, | am of the opinion that it will be
unsafe to rely the testimony of PW 1 and PW 3 so far allegation of penetrative
sexual assault by the accused is concerned, as doubt remains in the
prosecution case. Law is well settled that when there is any doubt remains in
the case, the benefit must go to the accused. In view of above, | am of the

Opinion that in this case accused is entitled for benefit of doubt.

30. Considering all above, | am of the opinion that prosecution has
failed to prove the charge u/s 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused
Suchen Konwar. As such, accused Suchen Konwar is acquitted from the charge
u/s 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 on benefit of doubt and set at liberty forthwith.

31. Issue release order to the Jail Supdt. of District Jail, Sivasagar
accordingly.

32. As the accused was in Jail custody, no order is passed u/s 437-A
Cr.P.C.

33. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the matter is

not referred to DLSA for granting compensation u/s 357-A CrP.C.

34, Learned State defence counsel is entitled for his professional fees

from Govt. of Assam as per rules.

35. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar u/s 365 CrP.C.

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 14 of 16
36. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of

on contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 23rd day of

December, 2019 at Sivasagar.

Special J udge
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 15 of 16
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses -

PW -1
PW - 2
PW - 3
PW -4
PW-5
PW - 6
PW - 7
PW - 8
PW - 9

Victim 'MK'

Dr. Prahlad Bordoloi (MO)
Smt. Usha Konwar (Informant)
Sri Duleswar Konwar

Sri Mridul Gogoi

Smt. Gunati Gogoi

Smt. Rina Konwar

Sri Putul Gogoi

Dr. Pranab Kr. Dutta (MO)

PW - 10 Sri Jadumani Bora
PW - 11 Sri Chittaranjan Iswary (10)

2. Defence witnesses - None

3. Court witnesses - None

4. Exhibits by prosecution -

Exbt.1 -
Exbt.2 -
Exbt.3 -
Exbt.4 -
Exbt.5 -
Exbt.6 -
Exbt.7 -
Exbt.8 -

Statement of the victim given in Court u/s 164 Cr-P.C.
Medical examination report
FIR
Seizure list
Medical examination report
Sketch map
Seizure list
Charge Sheet.

M.Exbt.1 - Age certificate of the victim 'MK'

Special | udge,
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 02 of 2016 Page 16 of 16
