CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 48/16

Informant: — Sri Ashutos Das,
S/o- Late Sarat Das,
R/o- Juria Pukhuri,
PS- Namrup,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Deepak Deb,
S/o- Late Prafulla Deb,
R/o- Juria Pukhuri,
PS- Namrup,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri Ranjit Phukan, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH
Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 48/16
G.R. Case No. 1354/16

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Deepak Deb

Charges: Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, read with Section 354 IPC.
Date of evidence on: 24-05-17, 07-09-17 & 11-05-18.

Date of argument : 08-08-18.
Date of Judgment — : 20-09-18.

JUDGMENT
1) The prosecution case in a narrow compass is that in the month of January, in
the year 2014, the victim 'X' went for tuition classes held by Sri Deepak Dev
(hereinafter the accused person). When the accused person’s house gradually
gets vacated during the tuition hours, the accused used to take undue
advantage and used to send away the remaining students and administered
spiked water. On the relevant day, he groped the breasts and back of the
victim. When the victim protested, the accused threatened her with her life.
In this manner, the accused used to take undue advantage and outraged the
modesty of several students and also threatened them not to divulge about
the incidents. The young victims were terrified and they concealed about the
incidents. On 28-05-16, at about 4:00 pm, the victim girls met the accused at
Juria Pukhuri Tiniali and when they protested about his misbehavior, the
public gathered and were apprised about the incidents. A disturbing situation

was stirred up and an ejahar regarding this incident was lodged by 'X's father
2)

3)

4)

Sri Ashutos Das. The FIR was registered as Namrup PS Case No. 79/16 under
Sections 354/506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC in short), read with Section 8
of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter
POCSO Act in short) and SI Sremanta Kumar Bharali was endorsed with the
investigation.

The investigating officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation. He
went to the place of occurrence and prepared the Sketch-Map. He recorded
the statements of the witnesses and the victims. He forwarded the victims to
the Magistrate for recording their statements. On finding prima facie
materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused person under
Section 354/506 IPC, read with Section 8 of POCSO Act.

On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and this case was
separated into two cases and registered as POCSO Case No. 48/16 and 69/16
vide Order dtd. 22-11-16 passed by my learned predecessor. This case was
separated as per Section 219 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC in
short) observing that the alleged offences occurred beyond one year and
three offences of the same kind can be jointly tried together. POCSO Case No.
48/16 was split up and separated into two cases, as the time period of the
offences extended beyond one year and the offences of the same kind were
more than three offences to be jointly charged in the same case. In this case,
the victims involved are namely U, V and W. After hearing both the sides, a
formal charge under Sections 8 of POCSO Act, read with Section 354 IPC was
framed and read over and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his
guilt and claimed innocence.

To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of eight

witnesses including the IO and exhibited several documents and the defence
cross-examined the witnesses extensively to refute the charges.
Submissions:

5) The learned Public Prosecutor Smti. Runumi Devi and Addl. Public Prosecutor
Mrs. Sahnaz Akhtar laid stress in their argument that there is clinching
evidence against the accused person. There are three victims who brought
home the charges leveled against the accused person. The learned defence
counsel Sri Ranjit Phukan laid stress in his argument that the age of the
students does not support that they were minors. There are no supporting
documents to prove the age of the victims. No criminal force or assault can
be attributed to the accused. The date and time of the occurrence was in the
year 2014 and the FIR was lodged after two years. Other tuition students
were not examined. All the witnesses are interested witnesses and so on and
so forth. The remaining part of the argument will be discussed at the
appropriate stage.

Points for determination:

i. Whether in the year 2014, at Rajgarh Rongali Gaon, the
accused committed sexual assault on the victims X, Y and
Z?

ii. Whether at the same time and place, the accused used
criminal force on the victim ‘Z’, intentionally or knowing it
likely to outrage her modesty?

Decision thereon and the reasons for the decision:

6) The informant’s daughter 'X' testified as PW-1 that the accused was her
private tutor and the informant is her father. The incident occurred in the
month of February or December, 2014. She used to take tuitions for English

in the accused person’s house to prepare for her HSLC examination which
7)

was held in the year 2015. On the evening of the incident, at about 5:00 pm,
she went for her tuition classes with her friends. The tuition classes were
over at 7:00 am and the accused asked her to wait while her friends went
away. He suggested her that he will provide her with question and answers
and so she waited. Then the accused offered her a glass of water and after
drinking the same, she became unconscious. When she regained her senses,
she charged the accused whether he misbehaved with her, because she was
aware of the accused person’s loose moral character. The accused replied
that he did whatever he felt like doing with her. When she stressed that she
will inform her parents about the incident, the accused remarked that her
image will be tarnished, because she is a girl. The accused accosted her and
insisted that she was a consenting party. She suspected that the accused
assaulted her, because she experienced pain on her hands. When she
returned home, she was terrified and she did not inform anybody about the
incident. After her examination, when she was in Class-XI, there was a
discussion amongst their friends and all the girls who were present in the
discussion, admitted that the accused misbehaved with them also during the
tuition classes. The girls who admitted about the accused person's violation
were the victims namely U, ‘V, W, Y and Z. She then informed her parents
about the incident. They also attacked the accused person and she assaulted
him. Then her father lodged an ejahar with the police. The police recorded
her statement and forwarded her to the Magistrate to record her statement.
Ext. 1 is her statement before the Magistrate and Ext. 1(1) is her signature.

Before discussing the cross-examination of the victim, it is pertinent to
mention at this stage that the victim could not incriminate the accused

person directly. It is true that her evidence depicts that the accused person
8)

9)

administered spiked water, but she was unconscious and was not wary
whether the accused person assaulted her. She experienced pain on her
hands and this left for us to gauge how she could experience pain on her
hands.

This witness was cross-examined in extenso. She is not connected with this
case, but the case was initiated by the complaint of assault upon her. In her
cross-examination, she testified that the accused person is a married man
and his family also stays in his house. There are two rooms in his house. She
was not certain whether the accused misbehaved with her or not. A few days
prior to the incident, she along with W and 'Y' and another girl went to watch
Papon’s programme in Bihu function at Namrup Bihutoli. W and 'Y' are related
to her. She did not meet the accused person in the Bihu function. She denied
the suggestion that she attended the Bihu function for the entire night
without permission from her parents and the accused rebuked her, because
she attended the function without informing her parents. The evidence of
PW-1 has been contradicted by her cross-examination and on the cross-
examination of the witnesses.

SI Sremanta Kumar Bharali is the IO and he testified as PW-8 that PW-1 did
not mention under Section 161 CrPC that she suspected that the accused
person assaulted her, because she experienced pain on her hands. PW-1 also
did not mention before him that she went to the tuition class at about 5:00

pm.

10) What can be deduced from the cross-examination of PWs-1 and 8 is that she

stated before the IO that the accused offered her sedated water after she
was left alone after the tuition classes. It is also implied that the accused

dared her to inform her parents about his violation and he threatened her
that her image will be tarnished if she divulged about what he had done with
her and that he did whatever he felt like with her.

11) The informant Sri Ashutos Das testified as PW-2 that 'X' and other victim girl
W are his daughters. He knows the other victims U, V, 'Y' and Z who resides
near his house. The accused is like his brother and he used to teach his
daughters since they were in Class-IX and X. They used to go to the accused
person’s house for tuition classes. About a year ago, he lodged an ejahar
when his daughters and their friends told his wife about the incident. His wife
informed him that when his daughter 'X' went for her tuition classes, the
accused asked her to wait after the class and he offered 'X' a glass of water
and after drinking the same, his daughter became unconscious and the
accused misbehaved with her. His younger daughter W informed him that the
accused used to display obscene gestures. Then he lodged the ejahar. Ext. 2
is the ejahar and Ext. 2(1) is his signature.

12)In his cross-examination, he testified that the police did not record his
statement. The name of the scribe is not mentioned in the ejahar and it is
also not mentioned in the ejahar that the ejahar was written according to his
narrative. His daughter informed him about the incident after two years. The
date and time of the incident is not mentioned in the FIR. He also admitted
that the accused person's wife and nephew resides in his house. There is only
one room in his house. He stated in his cross-examination that before
lodgment of the ejahar, his daughter and her friends went to watch Bihu
function, but he denied the suggestion that the accused person asked them
why they did not take permission from their parents to watch Bihu function
for the entire night, then his daughters and her friends protested and

assaulted the accused and lodged this case against the accused. One more
victim 'Y' is related to him and she is his niece. The other two girls are their
friends. The accused is still taking tuition classes, but none except the victim
girls have filed this case against him. The accused has around 100 students
and he earns his livelihood through tuition classes. He has denied the
suggestion that he has lodged this case against the accused on suspicion.

13) It is germane to mention at this juncture that 'X' was not aware whether the
accused misbehaved with her, because she was unconscious, but PW-2 was
certain that the accused misbehaved with her. Moreover, there is a lapse in
the investigation which extends a benefit of doubt to the accused person.
The police failed to record his statement as testified by PW-2.

14) It is germane to mention at this juncture that another victim in connection
with other case, i.e., POCSO Case No. 69/16, namely, Z testified as PW-3 that
she used to attend the tuition classes held by the accused in a private school
when she was a student of Class-IX. The informant Sri Ashutos Das is the
father of X. The other victims U, V, W, X and Y are all known to her. She met
them while she was studying in LP School. While she was attending her
tuition classes held by the accused, her younger brother Sri Manash Kundu
and another boy also used to attend tuition classes. During tuition classes,
the accused used to send her younger brother and his friend to bring pan and
in their absence, he used to feel and grope her back. Then she removed his
hand, but she did not inform anybody about the act of the accused. One day,
when she met him in the field, 'X' informed her that the accused used to
misbehave with her. Then the other girls, who met in the field, also disclosed
about their experience with the accused person and they also discussed
about the behavior of the accused person towards them. Then all the girls

confronted the accused in the tiniali when they met him on the same day and
there was a commotion and many people assembled. They all confronted the
accused about his misbehavior and 'X' and some other people assaulted the
accused. Meanwhile, the police arrived and then they went to the police
station. 'X's father lodged an ejahar with the police. During investigation, the
police recorded her statement. They were also forwarded to the Magistrate
for recording her statement. Ext. 3 is her statement and Ext. 3(1) upto Ext.
3(3) are her signatures.

15)It is pertinent to mention at this juncture that the statement of Z under
Section 161 CrPC is consistent to her testimony in the Court. The offence
described by Z does not constitute any offence under Section 8 of POCSO
Act. The testimony of Z is not clear on which part of her back, the accused
rubbed his hands. At the time she testified, she gave her age as 19 years and
according to her testimony, she was a student of Class-IX when the alleged
incident occurred.

16) After scrutinizing the evidence, it is held that when a teacher feels the back
of a student, it cannot be said to be an act with sexual intent to fall under the
definition of Section 7 of POCSO Act. Moreover, in her cross-examination, she
testified that the incident took place when she was a student of Class-VI._ It
is clear that she revealed about the incident when she completed her higher
secondary examination. She also testified in her cross-examination that she
used to take tuitions along with a group of students and the accused never
groped her back with bad intention. She admitted that a few days before the
incident, Angarag Mahanta came for a programme in their place. However,
she denied that she attended Angarag’s function without permission from her
parents and the accused confronted them and rebuked them and so they

hatched up a conspiracy against the accused by raking up an old issue and
10

assaulting him in public.

17) As far as the evidence of PWs-1, 2 and 3 goes, it is clear that the evidences
are too farfetched and sketchy to fasten the guilt on the accused. The
evidence does not corner him or close in on him. Moreover, the ejahar Ext. 2
was lodged after two years of the incident. The prolonged delay renders
every possibility of fabricating a case against the accused.

18) The victim 'Y' testified as PW-4 that she used to attend tuition classes at
Rajgarh Rongali Adarkha Vidyapith which was held by the accused person.
While attending the tuition classes, the accused held her hand with bad
intention, but she did not oppose, because she was terrified by the accused.
One day, all the girls met in the field and while discussing, all the girls
revealed that the accused used to misbehave with them in the same manner.
At that time, while they were in the field, they also met the accused in the
tiniali and all the victims U, V, W, X and Z and herself confronted the accused
as to why he used to misbehave with them. Meanwhile, many people
assembled. Some assaulted the accused and she also hit him. Meanwhile, the
police arrived and they went to the police station. The police recorded their
statements and the statements of other witnesses. She came to the court
and the Magistrate recorded her statement. Ext. 4 is her statement and Ext.
4(1) is her signature.

19) The statement of the victim under Section 164 CrPC is not consistent with her
testimony in the Court. She did not mention before the Magistrate that the
accused touched her hands with bad intention. The victim was a student
when she was about to appear her HSLC examination. After scrutinizing her
evidence, it is held that when the accused touched her hands, it can be held

that his intentions were not inappropriate. Moreover, the incident described
11

by this victim does not fall within the description of Section 7 of POCSO Act.
She had admitted that the complainant is her uncle (Moha).

20) The other victim ‘W’ testified as PW-5 that the informant is her father and the
incident occurred a month before her matriculation examination, when she
attended the tuition classes held by the accused. She used to attend the
tuition classes in the accused person's house in the morning. Before her
examination, the accused, on his own accord, used to visit her house in the
evening hours and took tuitions. He used to take tuitions with her alone in a
room and her parents used to allow her to take tuitions, in the room, alone
with the accused, in order that she may not be disturbed. While taking
tuitions in her house and while she was alone in the room, the accused
groped her body and held her hands. When she opposed and threatened to
inform her parents about his acts, the accused scared her. The accused
threatened her that he will spread rumour that she willfully allowed him to
grope her body and on being terrified of his threats, she concealed about his
inappropriate behavior towards her. Thereafter, the accused continued his
tuition classes. In the month of May, 2015, some of their friends met in the
field one day and while chatting, the topic about the accused person's
inappropriate behavior cropped up and all the girls revealed that the accused
misbehaved with them. While discussing, at that time, they met the accused
person in the tiniali and then they surrounded him and meanwhile, the police
was called and they went to the police station. The police recorded her
statement and they were also forwarded to the Court where the Magistrate
recorded their statements. Ext. 5 is her statement and Ext. 5(1) and Ext. 5(2)
are her signatures.

21)It is germane to mention at this stage that the statement of the victim ‘W’
12

under Section 164 CrPC is consistent to her testimony in the evidence. The
only discrepancy in this case is that all the victims came up with the
allegation after two long years and some victims came up with the allegation
after one year. It is not a case where the victim was complicit in order to
conceal their own involvement. It is a case where the accused person is
alleged to be complicit. It is not fathomable why the victims kept mum for
such a long time and on one fine day, they stoutly came up with this
allegation. The victim ‘W’ is the victim 'X's sister and victim "Y's cousin. The
accused gets the benefit of doubt, because this case came up after a
prolonged period of two years and one year. The victim 'X' testified that she
was assaulted by the accused in the year 2014, ‘Z’ testified that she was
assaulted when she was a student of Class-'X' and mathematics reveal that
she came up with the allegation after four years, while 'Y' testified that the
incident occurred before her HSLC examination and the mathematics reveals
that she was allegedly molested by the accused about three years ago.
Moreover, the cross-examination of the IO as PW-8 reveals that 'Y' did not
mention in her statement under Section 161 CrPC that all the victims met in
the field and while discussing, the accused person’s misdeed surfaced in their
discussion and at that time, they saw the accused in the tiniali and they
confronted and assaulted him in the tiniali. In this manner, it is clear that the
witnesses revealed about the allegation after a couple of years. The cross-
examination of ‘W’ further proceeds that she took tuition classes from the
accused since she was a student of Class-V until she was a student of Class-
X. If the accused is a man of such loose moral character, why did she
continue taking tuition classes for five long years? Moreover, the PW-8's

cross-examination reveals that she did not mention under Section 161 CrPC
13

that the accused took her tuition in a separate room alone and then he
groped her, but when she threatened the accused to inform her parents, the
accused exercised threats that he would inform her parents and that she
allowed him to grope her.

22) On scrutiny of the evidence of ‘W’, it is held that her evidence is replete with
contradictions. The discrepancies are that she revealed about the accused
person’s misdeeds after two years. Even if the accused had been complicit,
yet due to the prolonged day in informing the incident, not by one, but by six
victims, the accused person gets the benefit of doubt.

23) Another victim ‘U’ testified as PW-6 that the alleged incident occurred before
her matriculation. The accused used to take tuitions and sometimes, they
used to take tuition classes in the school and sometimes, the accused used to
take tuitions in her house. On the day of the incident, before her
matriculation examination, she was taking tuition classes with the accused in
her house, in the evening. At that time, the accused held her hand. So she
went outside. As she was scared about the incident, she did not inform the
incident to anybody. Thereafter, the accused did not visit her house to take
tuitions. One of her friends 'X' informed her about an untoward incident
committed by the accused person upon her. At that time, they were in the
field and 'X' informed them about the incident and thereafter, all the girls
revealed about similar incidents committed by the accused and when they
met the accused in the tiniali, the confronted him. The accused was
confronted by the girls and the public also gathered and they all assaulted
the accused. He was taken to the police station. She also went to the police
station and her statement was recorded. She was forwarded to the

Magistrate who recorded her statement. Ext. 6 is the statement before the
14

Magistrate and Ext. 6(1) and 6(2) are her signatures.

24) After scrutinizing the evidence, it is held that the evidence of this witness
does not implicate that the accused is complicit. Holding hand of a girl who is
a student is not an offence under the POCSO Act, more so when the victim
did not incriminate that her hand was held with inappropriate intention.

25) Another witness ‘V’ testified as PW-7 that she took tuitions under the accused
person before her matriculation examination. The accused used to go to their
house in the evening to take tuition classes and one day, while taking
tuitions, the accused held her hand. Then she removed his hand and did not
react. One day, all the girls met in the field and while chatting, they learnt
that the accused person misbehaved with all the girls and at that time, they
met the accused in the tiniali and they confronted him and then some people
assembled and assaulted him and took him to the police station. She also
went to the police station. She was forwarded to the Magistrate who recorded
her statement. Ext. 7 is her statement and Ext. 7(1) and 7(2) are her
signatures.

26) Scrutinizing the evidence of PWs-6 and 7, it is held that their statements
under Section 164 CrPC are consistent to their testimony in the Court.
However, holding hand does not form an offence under the POCSO Act or
under Section 7 of the POCSO Act. PWs-6 and 7 did not describe the offence
of the accused. While taking tuition classes, a teacher may hold hand or his
hands may brush against the hands of his students. The intention has to be
clear so as to fasten the guilt on the accused.

27)SI Sremanta Kumar Bharali testified as PW-8 that on 28-05-16, he was
posted at Namrup Police Station. On that day, the OC of Namrup Police

Station received an FIR from Sri Ashutos Das and registered Namrup PS Case
15

No. 79/18 under Section 354/506 IPC, read with Section 8 of POCSO Act and
endorsed him with the investigation. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext. 2(2) is the
signature of the OC Sri Biswajyoti Sharma. He recorded the statement of the
informant in the police station and went to the place of occurrence and
prepared the Sketch-Map. Ext. 8 is the Sketch-Map and Ext. 8(1) is his
signature. He recorded the statements the victims and forwarded them to the
Magistrate for recording their statements. The accused was already
apprehended by the public and kept confined in a shop at Rongali and he
went there and forwarded him to judicial custody on the next day. He
recorded the statements of the witnesses and finding prima facie materials,
he submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused under Sections 354/511 IPC,
read with Section 8 of POCSO Act. Ext. 9 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 9(1) is
his signature.

28) His cross-examination has already been discussed while analyzing the
evidence of the victims.

29) It has already been discussed in my foregoing discussions that the FIR was
lodged after two years. The evidence of the witnesses clearly reveal that all
the girls got together and slammed this case against the accused. Delay in
the lodgment of the FIR in this case, extends a benefit of doubt to the
accused person. The accused may have been complicit, but the girls woke up
from their slumber after two years. It is true that the girls became more
confident to confront the accused when they attained majority. They were
terrified to confront the accused earlier. However, due to the prolonged delay
in the lodgment of the FIR and due to the contradictions elicited by the
defence, the accused gets the benefit of doubt.

30)In this case, as the contrary is proved, the presumption under
16

Section 29 of POCSO Act is not tenable.

31) The prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused
outraged the modesty of the victims U, V and W and committed sexual
assault on them.

32)The accused is hereby acquitted from the charges under Section 8 of the
POCSO Act, read with Section 354 IPC on benefit of doubt and set at liberty
forthwith.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 20" day of
September, 2018.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Contd.
17

POCSO Case No. 48/16
APPENDIX

List of witnesses:

PW-1 Victim 'X';

PW-2 Sri Ashutosh Das;

PW-3 Victim ‘2’;

PW-4 Victim 'Y';

PW-5 Victim ‘W’;

PW-6 Victim ‘U’;

PW-7 Victim ‘V’; and

PW-8 SI Sremanta Kumar Bharali.
f Exhibits:

1.

List

9.

Se nN am ew hw Ke So we N eo SY

Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.

1 Statement of the victim PW-1 recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2 Ejahar;

3 Statement of the victim PW-3 recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
4 Statement of the victim PW-4 recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
5 Statement of the victim PW-5 recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
6 Statement of the victim PW-6 recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
7 Statement of the victim PW-7 recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
8 Sketch-Map; and

9 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
