Page 1 of 5

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 23/15

Informant: XXXX

Accused: Sri Haren Patnayak,
S/o- Sri Atul Patnayak,
R/o- Dinjoy Chapori Gaon,
PS- Chabua,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri UK Saha, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 5

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 23/15
G.R. Case No. 447/15

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Haren Patnayak

Charge u/S 8 PCSO Act, r/w S. 354 IPC.

Date of evidence on : 19-01-16.
Date of argument : 19-01-16.
Date of Judgment __: 19-01-16.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that while the victim, a minor, was alone in her house, the
accused person came and sexually assaulted her on 11-02-15. The father of
the victim lodged an ejahar on 20-02-15 before the Officer-in-charge of
Chabua Police Station who registered Chabua PS Case No. 25-15 under
Sections 376/511 IPC. In course of investigation, the Investigating Officer
visited the place of occurrence, drew up Sketch-Map and recorded the
statement of witnesses. The statement of the victim was also recorded by the
Magistrate under Section 164 CrPC and on completion of invesdtigation, the
Investigating Officer submitted Charge-Sheet under Sections 376/511 IPC,
r/w Section 8 Protection of Children from Sexual Offices Act.
Upon committal, this Court framed charges under Section 8 Protection of
Children from Sexual Offices Act (hereinafter PCSO Act), r/w Section 354 IPC
against the accused person and the charges were read over and explained to
the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined two witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Sri Saha, learned counsel

for the defence.
Page 3 of 5

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the prosecutrix was a child within the meaning of Section
2(d) of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(hereinafter ‘the Act’)?
2. Whether the accused committed sexual assault upon the victim or
used criminal force upon her with a view to outrage her modesty?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

5) The victim in this case was not medically examined. No documentary

evidence with regard to her age has been adduced in evidence and none is
found on the record either. The victim who was examined asPW-1 recorded
her age as 19 (nineteen) years and the father of the victim who was
examined as PW-2 also stated that the age of his daughter was 19 (nineteen)
years, the occurrence having taken place less than a year ago. Therefore,
going by the version of the victim as well as the informant, i.e., father of the
victim, it appears that the alleged victim had attained 18 (eighteen) years of
age at the time of occurrence. Therefore, the victim was not a child within

the meaning of the PCSO Act at the time of alleged occurrence.

Point No. 2:

6) The alleged victim as PW-1 deposed that on the day of occurrence, she was

7)

alone in her house and at that time, her father was cutting bamboo in the
bari. Then the accused came to their house and asked about the location of
her father and then she replied that he was in the bari. Her father saw the
accused going out from their house from the bari and thereafter, her father
and her paternal uncle threatened and beat her. Thereafter, her father lodged
an ejahar at the police station against the accused. Her father and mother
took her to the police station. She also came to the Court for recording her
statement by the Magistrate. Ext. 1 is her statement recorded by the
Magistrate wherein Ext. 1(1) and Ext. 1(2) are her signatures. She further
stated that she had given her statement before the police as well as the
police on being threatened and beaten by her father and paternal uncle. She
stated that the said statements were not correct. Defence declined to cross-
examined this witness.

PW-2 the informant and father of the victim deposed that on the day of

occurrence, at about 10:30 am, he was cutting bamboo in his bari. At that
8)

9)

Page 4 of 5

time, his daughter was inside the house. Then he heard the call of his
daughter and arriving at the courtyard of his house, he saw the accused at
the courtyard. Then he asked the accused as to why he had come. PW-2 also
asked his daughter about it. His daughter told him that the accused wanted
to enter into PW-2's house. As the accused wanted to enter into PW-2’s
house while his daughter was alone in the house in his absence, so he lodged
an ejahar against the accused at the police station.

There is no other eye-witness to the occurrence and the remaining witnesses
are not material ones.

In view of what has been deposed to by the victim herself as well as the
informant, there is no sufficient evidence to establish the ingredients of the
offence under Section 8 PCSO Act or Section 354 IPC.

10)In the result, I hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its case

beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused person is acquitted
of the offence under Section 8 PCSO Act, r/w Section 354 IPC and he be set
at liberty forthwith.

11) Previous bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6 (six) months

under Section 437-A CrPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 19" day of

January, 2016.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 5 of 5

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 The victim; and
2. PW-2 The father of the victim.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC; and
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
