Page 1 of 18

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 19 of 2017
Under section 377 of IPC/Section 10 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of G. R Case No. 1672/17)
State of Assam

—Vs—
Sri Joygeswar Dihingia ves Accused Person

Present : Smti I. Barman,AJS;
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur:

For the State : Mr. M.C.8Bartah)y
Special Public*Prosecutor

For the accused o\ MrsiE. Alam, Sr. Advocate

Date of Argument : 30-04-2019.

Date of Judgment : 14-05-2019.
JUDGMENT

1. the genesis of the present case is anal sexual assault on a eight
years male child (herein after called as “the victim”). It is alleged that
on 10-05-2017 at around 2 p.m., while the informant’s minor
son/victim aged about 8 years was playing with his friend (PW 5) Ram
(actual name withheld) at a few distance away from his house,
accused Joygeswar Dihingia by luring took him to his house and

sexually assaulted him.

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.1) on 11-05-2017 from the informant
that is the victim’s father (PW 1), the In-charge of the Kacharigaon
Police Out Post made the G.D. Entry No. 200 dated 11-05-2017 at

 
Page 2 of 18

around 11 a.m. and forwarded the FIR to the Officer-in-Charge of
Tezpur Police Station for registering a case. On receipt of the same,
the Officer-in-charge of Tezpur PS registered the case being Tezpur
P.S. Case No. 882/2017 u/s 8 of Special POCSO Act and entrusted SI
Tabibur Rahman to investigate the case who had already launched the
investigation of the case. In course of investigation, the Investigating
Officer (PW 9) visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement
of the witnesses, arrested the accused, sent the victim for medical
examination, got his statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.Gacand on
completion of investigation having found materials, laid ‘“chargesheet

against the accused Joygeswar Dihingia under section’8 of POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of the accused person before this Court, after
furnishing the copies of the documents U/s 207sof Cr.P.C. and having
heard both parties, my learned predecessor, framed charge against the
accused Joygeswar Dihingia u/s 377 ofthe IPC read with section 10 of
POCSO Act and particularS\ofsthescharge on being read over and
explained to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed for

trial.

4. To substantiate.the case, prosecution examined as many as 9
(nine) numbers, of witnesses. On closure of the prosecution evidence,
statement of ‘the accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the
aecused\denied all the incriminating evidence that emerged against
Aims

5) ‘I have heard the argument of the learned counsel of both sides

and also have gone through the materials on record.
6. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) " Whether the accused Joygeswar Dihingia on 10-05-2017 at
around 2 p.m. at Ushanagar under Tezpur Police Station committed
carnal intercourse against the order of nature with the victim, a
minor boy aged about 8 years and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 377 of IPC.

 
Page 3 of 18

(2) Whether the accused Joygeswar Dihingia on 10-05-2017 at
around 2 p.m. committed aggravated sexual assault on the victim
male child aged about 8 years and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 10 of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

7. Mr. M. Baruah, the learned Special Public Prosecutor strenuously
argued that the materials on record undoubtedly project a case of
sexual assault on a boy of 8 years old. He further submitted that the
evidence of the child victim of sexual assault and his cousih brother
(PW 5) who was present in the place of occurrence dS\enough to

convict the accused person.

8. Controverting the said argument, Mr. Alam,\theslearned Senior
counsel appearing for the accused, submitted that that no explicit
reliance can be placed upon the evidence of the minor victim who is a
tutored one. Morevover with the discrepancies in the evidence of the
prosecution witnesses during investigation and during trial, made the
prosecution case doubtfub and.as, such the accused is entitled to
benefit of doubt.

9. In this case,“thewictim and his parents categorically stated that
the victim was,7/8 years old at the time of incident and the medical
report also‘reflects that the victim was below seven years. Age of the
victimyis Not disputed in this case. As such, I unhesitatingly hold that
the. victim is a child below the age of 12 years at the time of the

incident.

10. Now, the question is whether the accused Joygeswar Dihingia
committed any offence on the victim child. In this respect, it would be

apposite to evaluate the evidence of the prosecution witnesses.

11. PW 8 is the victim. He deposed that on the day of incident at
around 2 p.m., when he along with cousin brother/friend Ram ( PW 5)
and one Riya were playing on the road infront of his house, the
accused came there and by luring to give money, called them to his
house. Accordingly, he along with PW 5 went to his house. The

 
Page 4 of 18

accused took him on his lap and touched his penis. Then the accused
took him and his cousin brother PW 5 to the roof of the house of the
accused. The accused offered them mango and thereafter they again
came down. The boys when felt the need to attend nature’s call,
accused asked PW 5 to go to the side of the tube well and asked him
(victim) to go to the bath room. In the bath room, the accused opened
his pant and thereafter the accused opening his own pant, inserted his
penis into the anus of the victim. At that time when his brother PW 5
called him up, the accused gagging his mouth closed the.door of the
bath room. PW 5 again called him up. Then giving one ‘blow, in the
abdomen of the accused, he ran away there frommHe met ‘his grand-
mother at the gate and reported the incident to his\grand- mother and

to his mother. He proved his statement u/s*L64.CriP.C. as Ext. 3.

During cross he admitted thatthe doctor did not find any
injury on his anus. He stated that when he was brought to the court,
police instructed him what dS‘to\bewstated before the Magistrate and
accordingly he made the statement. Again he denied the suggestion
that as per instruction of ‘his parents and police, he made the said
statement. He further stated that when he went to the house of the
accused whomshe.called as “Koka”, the wife of the accused whom he

called as*Aita” was also present there.

12.\, Close‘on the heels of the evidence of the victim child, PW 5 aged
about, 8 years, the cousin brother of the victim with whom the victim
was playing on the fateful day also stated that on the day of incident,
at around 2/3 p.m. when he along with the victim were playing, the
accused coming there gave them Rs. 3/- to buy “morton” but as at
that time, the shop was closed, hence they returned to his paternal
aunt’s house but again the accused called them and opening his gate
asked them to sit in the verandah. The accused also offered mango by
taking them at the roof of the building. Then when they felt the need
of urinate, he discharged near the tube well and the accused took the

victim to the bath room. He had seen the accused opening the chain of

 
Page 5 of 18

his (accused) pant and then closing the door. He called the victim to
which the victim replied that he is coming. At that time he met the
grand mother of the victim who came forward in search of them. In
the mean time the victim came out and said that the accused did have

carnal sex with him.

During cross, he stated that when he along with the victim were
playing, the accused gave money to the victim. He admitted that
before police he stated that after the victim went inside the bath room,

he did not know what happened.

13. The other witnesses are only reported aboutrthe occurrence. PW
1, the informant as well as the father of the_victim, deposed that on
the day of incident, in the evening when ‘he ‘returned from work, his
brother (PW 2) informed him that the ‘accused luring to give money
and mango, called his (PW1) 7 years.old son and PW 5 to his house.
Thereafter, the accused asked\his son/victim to touch his penis and
then opening his (accuSed) pant attempted to commit carnal
intercourse with his ‘Son. Bhe victim informed the matter to his
(victim) mother andsknowing about the incident his mother-in-law
rebuked the a€Cused hen he lodged the FIR, Ext.1.

During.cross, he admitted that he heard about the incident from
his, brether. He denied the suggestion that before police he did not
state ‘that the accused luring to give money and mango took his son
along with PW 5 to his house and asked his son to touch his penis and
that the accused opening his pant, attempted to commit carnal
intercourse with his son. He admitted that he did not inform about the
incident to his neighbours. He denied the suggestion that due to
previous incident of breaking the wall of the accused, an altercation
took place between him and the accused for which he concocted the

story and lodged the FIR falsely.

14. PW 2 is the brother of the PW 1. He testified that on the day of

incident when his nephew/victim was playing with a friend in front of

 
Page 6 of 18

their house, the accused called the victim to his house luring to give
money and thereafter, attempted to commit bad act. He was reported
about the incident by the mother of the victim while he returned from
his work. Knowing about the incident, he went to the house of the
accused and asked why he committed bad act but the accused

remained silent. Then he advised to lodge the FIR.

During cross, he stated that he heard about the incident from
others. He admitted that prior to the incident, a truck carrying articles

to the house of the informant damaged the wall of the accused.

15. PW 3 Sri Bikash Nath, deposed that on theday of incident,
hearing hulla in the house of PW 1, he rushed_therexand had found the
police there. From neighbours he heard that\the, accused committed
bad act on the victim child.

16. PW 4 is the mother of the victim.boy. According to her, on the
day of incident, when she wasvat‘home, at around 2/3 p.m., her victim
son aged about 8 years’ alongwith PW 5 were playing infront of her
house. At that time the accused called her son and PW 5 to his house
and gave one rupee note’each to the boys. Then they went to shop
but as the shop.was closed, they returned to the house of the accused.
When they*felt\the urge to urinate, PW 5 was allowed to go outside
and¢*the ‘accused taking her son inside the bathroom, touched his
private part through his private part. PW 5 called her son but he did
not.respond. Thereafter, her son came out and informed her by crying
that the accused taking him inside the bath room did have carnal sex

with him. Accordingly, she informed the matter to her husband.

During cross, she stated that she had not seen the incident. She
only heard it. She admitted that before police she did not state the

incident as narrated in the court.

17. PW 6 Dr. Pradip Kumar Barman, Radiologist, Assam X-ray clinic
and Laboratory, Tezpur deposed that on 11-05-2017 as referred by

doctor of KCH, Tezpur, he examined the victim and opined that the

 
Page 7 of 18

age of the victim boy appears to be below seven years. He has proved
the Radiologist report as Ext.2 where Ext. 2(1) is his signature.

During cross, he stated that he had not mentioned in the report
the name of the doctor who referred the patient and also did not note
in the certificate that it is co-related with clinical data and not for

medico legal purpose.

18. PW 7, Miss B. Khakhlary, the then Judicial Magistrate, 1° class,
Sonitpur, Tezpur, deposed that on 12-05-2017 she recorded the
statement of the victim, aged about 8 years, in presence of, thesfather
of the victim. She proved the statement of the victim as Ext.°3 and the
order of the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur,fezpur as Ext.
4.

During cross, she stated that shexhas not given any certificate

that the statement of the victim was made voluntarily.

19. PW 9 Tabibur Rahman,the Investigating Officer, deposed that
on 11-05-2017 on receipt ‘of an FIR from the informant he made the
GDE No. 200/17 dated. TT-05-2017 at 11 a.m. and sent the FIR to O/C
Tezpur Police station for registering a case. Accordingly, consequent to
the registration.ofethe case by O/C, he was entrusted to investigate the
case. During investigation he visited the place of occurrence, prepared
the Sketch, map of the place of occurrence vide Ext. 5, recorded the
statement of witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got
recorded his statement u/164 Cr.P.C., arrested the accused and on
completion of investigation, submitted chargesheet against the
accused u/s 8 of POCSO Act vide Ext. 6.

20. Bearing in mind, the age of the victim who is aged about 8/9
years, let me now turn to the question of alleged offence of
aggravated sexual assault on the child victim. While considering this
part of the matter, it is worth noticing that it is the victim PW 8 around
whose evidence revolves the entire case of the prosecution, as such,

his evidence is most credential. His evidence is that on the day of

 
Page 8 of 18

incident, at around 2 p.m. when he along with PW 5 and one Riya
were playing on the road infront of their house, accused came there
and luring to give money, called them to his house. Accordingly, when
he along with PW 5 went to the house of the accused, he took him on
his lap and touched his penis. Thereafter, the accused had taken him
and PW 5 to the roof of his house where the accused offered them
mango. Thereafter they came down from the roof and on feeling the
need to attend nature’s call, the accused asked PW 5 to discharge near
the well and asked him to go to the bath room but in the ‘bath room
the accused opened his own pant as well as that of.the victim and
inserted his penis into the victim’s anus. At that tinve when PW 5 called
the victim, the accused gagged his mouth and\closed the door. He
further stated that again his brother called ‘him. and then he giving one
blow in the stomach of the accused ran\away there-from and met his
grand mother at the gate. Then he reported the incident to his grand
mother as well as to his mothér. The victim made the same version in
his statement u/s 164 Cr.P.Cawhich is proved as Ext. 3. His friend as
well as the cousin brother (RW 5) aged about 8 years, categorically
deposed that on the dayrofsincident, at around 2/3 p.m. when he along
with the victin®wereXplaying, at that time the accused coming there,
offered three rupees to buy ‘mortan’. But as the shop was closed, they
camestoxtheirepaternal aunt’s house. He further stated that thereafter,
the‘acclsed’ again called them, opened the gate and asked them to sit
in the, verandah. Thereafter, the accused took them to the roof of the
building and offered mango. Then in need to urinate, he proceeded
towards the tube well but the accused took the victim to the bath
room. Then, the accused opened the chain of his pant and closed the
door of the bath room which he witnessed. He further stated that he
called the victim to which the victim replied that he is coming. At that
time their grand mother insearch of them was coming forward whom
he met at the gate. In the mean time, the victim also came out and
said that the accused inserted his penis in his anus. The evidence of
PW 8, the victim and PW 5, reveals that on the day of incident, the

 
Page 9 of 18

accused by luring took the victim and PW 5 to his house, offered them
mango and when the boys felt the urge to urinate, the accused asking
PW 5 to go near the Tube well, had taken the victim to the bath room
where he sexually assaulted the victim. Though PW 5 had not seen
the accused committing sexual assault, but he corroborated the other
parts of the incident starting from the accused calling them to his
house till taking the victim to the bath room and the accused opening

his pant’s chain.

21. PW 1 and PW 4 being the father and mother of the)victim are
the most natural witnesses. PW 4 heard about the,incident\from her
victim son who narrated that on the day at around 2/3%p.m. when the
victim along with PW 5 were playing in front oftheir house, accused
gave the boys one rupee note each. Then the boys went to shop but
finding the shop closed, they went to the™house of the accused.
Thereafter, on feeling the need to urinate the accused asking PW 5 to
go outside, took her son to¢the bath»room. In the bath room accused
touched his private part‘through his private part. At that time though
PW 5 called the victimybut her son did not respond. Thereafter her son
coming there from\informed her that accused took him to the bath
room and did have carnal sex with him. PW 1 the victim's father also
stated that ‘his brother (PW 2) informed him that the accused luring to
give’money and mango called the victim (PW 8) and PW 5 to his house
and, accordingly when they came, the accused asked the victim to

touch his penis and attempted to commit carnal intercourse.

22. PW 2 is the brother of the informant who reported the incident
to the victim’s father. According to this witness, on the day when he
returned home, the mother of the victim reported to him that the
accused calling the victim to his house attempted to commit bad act
with his nephew when he was playing along with friend infront of his

house.

23. From the evidence as discussed above, it reveals that the

corroborative evidence of the parents of the victim - PW 1 and PW 4,

 
Page 10 of 18

uncle - PW 2 and the friend as well as the cousin brother of the victim
(PW 5), is that on the day when the victim was playing with PW 5 in
front of their house, accused came there and luring to give money
called them to his house and also offered them mango at the roof of
his house. Thereafter, when PW 5 and the victim PW 8 felt the urge to
urinate, then PW 5 proceeded towards the tube well while the accused
took the victim to his bath room and then committed the offence.
Though the victim stated that the accused took him on his lap, touched
his penis and in the bath room opening his (accused) pant™as, well as
the pant of the victim inserted his (accused) penis in his.anus out PW4
the victim’s mother stated that the victim reported\towher that the

accused had touched the private part of the victim, by his private part.

24. The Ld. Defence counsel vehemently argued that the informant
nowhere stated that he disclosed the incident to neighbours whereas
PW 3 stated that he heard about the incident from his neighbour and
though PW 1 the victim’s@father™testified that his brother PW 2
reported him about theineident but PW 2 did not state that he had
reported to the informant and the version of PW 2 that PW 4/victim’s
mother reported him about the incident was not corroborated by PW 4
and therefore ‘the.evidence of those witnesses cannot be taken into

consideration being hearsay witnesses.

Insthis respect he placed reliance on the ruling reported in
1. 2011 Crl.L.J. 1844,
2. (1998) 2 GLR 334 and
3. (1980) SCC (Cri) 145.

But this is a case of sexual offence on a male child of 8 years old
only and it is well settled that a victim of sexual assault does not stand
on the same footing as that of an accomplice. Hence, her/his evidence
does not need corroboration. If the evidence of a victim is found

believable and trustworthy, no further corroboration may be insisted.

 
Page 11 of 18

The law that emerges on the issue is to the effect that the
statement of the victim, if found to be worthy of credence and reliable,

requires no corroboration.

25. The Hon’ble Apex Court in the case of State of Himachal
Pradesh Vs. Sanjay Kumar @ Sunny, reported in (2017) 2 SCC

51, in paragraph 31 observed as follows:

“After thorough analysis of all relevant and attendant factors,
we are of the opinion that none of the grounds, on*which the
High Court has cleared the respondents, has any_meritaBy now
it is well settled that the testimony of a victim im cases of sexual
offences is vital and unless there are compelling reasons which
necessitate looking for corroborationyofxa statement, the courts
should find no difficulty to act onthe testimony of the victim of
a sexual assault alone to..convict the accused. No doubt, her
testimony has to inspiréxconfidence. Seeking corroboration to a
statement before #elying.upon the same as a rule, in such
cases, would  literallysamount to adding insult to injury. The
deposition of thexprosecutrix has, thus, to be taken as a whole.
Needlessy, to “reiterate that the victim of rape is not an
accomplice and her evidence can be acted upon without
corroboration. She stands at a higher pedestal than an injured
witness does. If the court finds it difficult to accept her version,
it may seek corroboration from some evidence which lends
assurance to her version. To insist on corroboration, except in
the rarest of rare cases, is to equate one who is a victim of the
lust of another with an accomplice to a crime and thereby insult
womanhood. It would be adding insult to injury to tell a woman
that her claim of rape will not be believed unless it is
corroborated in material particulars, as in the case of an
accomplice to a crime. Why should the evidence of the girl or
the woman who complains of rape or sexual molestation be

viewed with the aid of spectacles fitted with lenses tinged with

 
Page 12 of 18

doubt, disbelief or suspicion? The plea about lack of
corroboration has no substance (See Bhupinder Sharma_v.
State of Himachal Pradesh). Notwithstanding this legal position,
in the instant case, we even find enough corroborative material

as well, which is discussed hereinabove.”

In this case the cogent evidence of the victim is that the
accused touched his penis. This part of the victim’s evidence is found
reliable and inspire confidence of the court and does not watrant any

further corroboration.

26. The Ld. Defence counsel placing reliance omthe ruling reported
in (2010) 4 GLR 567 and 1996 2 GLR_ 421, further submitted
that the statements made by the witn@sses before the court are
different from those made before the\Investigating Officer and
therefore cannot be acted upon.

But on careful perusal of the statement of the victim u/s 161
Cr.P.C. it is seen that the victim had stated before the Investigating
Officer specifically that the ‘accused opened his pant and touched his
penis. The fact of carnal intercourse however has not been stated by
the victim before the Investigating Officer. Therefore to the extent
that thesaccused_ opened the victim’s pant and touched his penis finds
place in thesdeposition of the victim in court and this can be acted
upon. ‘Further though during cross of PW 5, defence side confronted
hissstatement on oath with his statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C., but the
material particulars that the accused luring them by giving money
called them to his house where the accused offered mango and that
on their feeling the urge to urinate, the accused asked him to go near
tube well while the accused took the victim to the bathroom and later
on the victim told him that the accused asked him (victim) to touch
his penis was also stated before the Investigating Officer. So there
are only minor exaggeration or discrepancies in the factual aspect in

the PW's statement on oath.

 
Page 13 of 18

It is well settled that omissions in previous statement or
discrepancies in narrating the details of the occurrence due to fading
of memory or lapse of time etc., cannot be considered to brush aside
the entire testimony of a witness which is otherwise found to be
reliable. On a close and dispassionate scrutiny of the evidence of the
victim shows that defence could elicit nothing tangible to discredit his
version regarding the fact of accused taking him to his house by
luring him and thereafter touching his penis in the bath room. The
omission or contradiction which does not go to the root of the case is
not destructive of the prosecution case. The omissions that“has been
referred above by the defence is not enowgh, to shake the
authenticity of the case, as the evidence of the.victim and PW 5 are
found fully reliable, consistent and trustworthy on material particulars
regarding sexual assault. The minor omissions here and there cannot

be a ground to discard their evidence.

27. The defence counsel\claiming the victim as a tutored one
submitted that in cross-examination, the victim admitted that when
he was brought to\the ‘court for recording statement before the
Magistrate, policeinstructed him what is to be stated before the
Magistratexand -accordingly, he had made to statement before the
learnedsMagistrate on being tutored. But on further perusal of the
victim's Cross-examination, it is seen that victim had at the same time
denied that he had made his statement before the Magistrate on the
instruction of the parents and police. It is well settled that difference
in some minor detail, which does not otherwise affect the prosecution
case, even if present, would not prompt the court to reject the
evidence on account of minor variation and discrepancies. The
evidence of the victim does not clearly indicate that he is a tutored
one. In deposition as well as on statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. he made
the same version. Victim's evidence is also corroborated by PW 5 as
discussed above. Evidence of the victim is found spontaneous and
trustworthy without inviting any suspicion of being tutored. I find

nothing to disbelieve his evidence.

 
Page 14 of 18

28. Settled law is that a child witness is required to be considered
with care and caution and possibility of being tutored is required to
be ruled out, but cases involving sexual molestation and assault
requires a different approach. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare Vs.
State of Maharashtra (1997 (5) SCC 341), Hon’ble Supreme
Court held that: (i) A child witness if found competent to depose to
the facts and reliable one, such evidence could be the basis of
conviction. (ii) Even in the absence of oath the evidence of a child
witness can be considered under section 118 of the Evidence Act
provided that such witness is able to understand the answerssthereof.
(iii) The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof would
depend upon the circumstances of each. ‘case. iv) The only
precaution which the Court should bear in _mind\while assessing the
evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a reliable one
and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent witness
and there is no likelihood of*being tutored. (v) The decision on the
question whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence primarily
rests with the trial Judge ‘who notices his manners, his apparent
possession or lack of intelligence, and said Judge may resort to any
examinationgWhich will tend to disclose his capacity and intelligence
as well as his ‘understanding of the obligation of an oath. (vi) This
precaution is*necessary because child witnesses are amenable to
tutoring and often live in a world of make beliefs. (vii) Though child
witnesses are pliable and liable to be influenced easily, shaped and
moulded, but if after careful scrutiny of their evidence, the Court
comes to the conclusion that there is an impress of truth in it, there

is no obstacle in the way of accepting the evidence of a child witness.

29. Furthermore, taking the plea of enmity, defence pointed out
that during cross of parents of the victim and PW 2, defence
suggested that prior to the incident, the truck carrying materials to
the house of the informant damaged the wall of the accused
regarding which an altercation took place and hence this case was

falsely instituted. But it is unbelievable that the story even if true, a

 
Page 15 of 18

parent would set up their child that too a male child with such an
allegation of sexual assault. Even if the truck damaged the wall of the
accused, why the informant instead of the accused, would lodge a
case. Except that the informant could elicit nothing that he has any
sort of enmity with the accused for false implication. In the above, I

find no force in the argument of the learned defence counsel.

30. In the case in hand, according to PW1, the victim's father, he
was reported that the accused asked his son to touch his penis and
opening his pant attempted to commit carnal intercourse with his son
and according to PW 4 the victim’s mother, the victim™told, her that
the accused taking her son to his bath room touched ‘his private part
through his (accused) private part. Even if\PW 2's evidence is
discarded, the inevitable conclusion is‘thatxthe victim was sexually
assaulted by the accused. The Medical Officer Dr. Pradip Kr. Barman
who examined the victim, is a Radiologist and he only ascertained his
age and did not submit any\reportein respect of the victim's injury.
The victim child in cross examination also admitted that he sustained
no injury on his anus. As Such, from the unshaken evidence of PW 1,
PW 4, PW 5 it can be inferred that no carnal intercourse was done
but it is well-established beyond all reasonable doubt that the
accused\on, the unfortunate day giving money called the victim and
PWS to.his house and offered mango and when the boys felt the
urgexto ‘urinate, the accused asked PW 5 to go near tube well and
taking the victim to the bath room, touched his penis. The conclusion
that is arrived is on the basis of the clenching and unshaken
testimony of the aforesaid witnesses. Hence, the ruling placed by the
defence reported in (2019) 2 GLR 291 is distinguishable and
cannot come to the aid of the defence. Therefore, the prosecution
succeeded in establishing that the accused Joygeswar Dihingia
committed sexual assault on the victim who is below 12 years of age
and it comes within the purview of aggravated sexual assault u/s
9(m) of POCSO Act punishable u/s 10 of POCSO Act.

 
Page 16 of 18

31. Situated thus, conclusion which is irresistible is that the
prosecution succeeded in establishing that the accused Joygeswar
Dihingia committed sexual assault on the child victim below the age
of 12 years by touching his penis. Accordingly, accused Joygeswar
Dihingia is held guilty for the offence punishable u/s 10 of POCSO Act
and convicted accordingly and acquitted him from the charge u/s 377
of IPC.

32. I have heard the accused Joygeswar Dihingia on the, point of
sentence. His statement is recorded where he stated that he is a
retired govt employee and is to look after his wife with.his income
and prayed for leniency. On the other hand,\the learned Special
Public Prosecutor submitted that the crime, being heinous, the

accused should not be dealt with leniency.

33. I gave my anxious consideration on the aspect of quantum of
sentence. Section 10 of POGSO, Act prescribes punishment upto 7

years but the same shallsnot.beJess than 5 years.

34. In the instantycase), the offence committed by the accused is
sexual assault against’ a child of 7/8 years. Considering the
submission.of. dae accused, I am of the considered opinion that the
minimum “punishment provided by law for the offence u/s 10 of
POCSO Act will meet the ends of justice.

35. \Considering all aspects, I sentence the convict Joygeswar
Dihingia to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for 5 (five) years and
also to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/- (Rupees five thousand), in default to
undergo Simple Imprisonment for another 2 (two) months for the
offence punishable u/s 10 of POCSO Act. The period of detention
already undergone by the accused shall be set off against the terms
of imprisonment as per provision of section 428 of Cr.P.C. His bail

bond stands cancelled and surety be discharged.

36. Convict/accused convict Joygeswar Dihingia be sent to Central

Jail, Sonitpur, Tezpur to serve the sentence.

 
Page 17 of 18

Case is recommended for compensation of the victim as per
provision of Section 357 A of Cr.P.C. by District Legal Services
Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

37. Leta free copy of the Judgment be furnished to the convict.

38. Also send a copy of the Judgment to the District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur as per provision of section 365 Cr.P.C. and a copy to

the District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

39. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Courtsonythis the 14%
day of May, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and correctedsby me.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Page 18 of 18

Prosecution witnesses.

1. PWil1 : Father of the victim
2. PW2 : Uncle of the victim
3. PW3 : Bikash Nath
4. PW4 : mother of the victim.
5. PW5 : cousin brother of the victim.
6. PW6 : Dr. Pradip Kr. Barman, Radiologist.
7. PW7 : Miss B. Khakhlary, JM 1° class, Tezpur.
8. PW8 : victim
9. PW9 : SI Tabibur Rahman, I.O.
Exhibits.
Ext. 1 : FIR
Ext. 2 : Radiologist report
Ext. 3 : 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the.victim
Ext. 4 : Order of learned CJM, Sonitpur, Tezpur
Ext. 5 : Sketch map
Ext. 6 : Chargesheet.
Ext. 9 : Sketch(map
Ext. 10 : Ghargesheet.

Material Exhibit.

Material Ext. 1  w»Seized’panty.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
