IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 24 (DH)/ 2018.
U/S 366/376 of IPC R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

The State of Assam
- Versus —
1. Shri Lalbabu Rai @ Rajib
S/O Swapan Rai,
Vill. Paul Potty,
P.S. Silapathar,
Dist.- Dhemaji.

4
et | eines
\ earance:

Special Judge,
Dhemaji.

Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor
Shri K.C. Sonowal, Advocate

Date of prosecution evidence

Date of argument

Date of Judgment

bik eii had wats Accused Person

ence ee ene eeee

For the State
For the Accused

: 04-12-2018.

: 04-12-2018.

: 14-12-2018.
bb
ae
\v

ial Judge,
oP ohomal

JUDGMENT

i The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 26-11-2017
complainant- Nizam Ali lodged an ejahar with Silapathar Police Station
alleging interalia that on 22-11-2017 in the evening at about 6.30 PM while
his (complainant’s) minor daughter -Smti ‘X’ (name is withheld) was going to
the housed of Miss Rasida Begum of their same village, the accused-Lalbabu
Rai kidnapped/abducted her from the road.

a: On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused person u/s 366 of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of the POCSO
Act.

3. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 366/376 of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act
and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined two witnesses. At the
closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused person was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the defence
adduced no evidence in support of their case.

4. Point for determination :

(1) That, on 22-11-2017 in the evening at about 6.30 PM at
Village-Maduri-Pathar under Silapathar Police Station, you
kidnapped/abducted Smti ‘Xx’, a minor girl aged about 16 years, with
intent that she might be compelled to marry you against her will, or
that she might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby
you committed an offence punishable u/s 366 of IPC.

(2) That, on the same day, time and place and thereafter you
committed rape on Smti ‘Xx’, a minor girl aged about 16 years, and

thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 376 of IPC.
(3) That, you on the same day, time and place and thereafter
you committed penetrative sexual assault on Smti ‘X’ and thereby you
committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

5. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.
Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
6. PW1 Smti ‘xX’ stated that the Complainant is her father. The
accused-Lalbabu Rai @ Rajib is her husband. They developed love affairs and
got married without the consent of her parents. Hence, her father lodged
complaint against the accused and police apprehended him and handed-over
her to her parents. However, later on, her parents accepted her marriage
with the accused and out of the wedlock, a child was born to them and they
are staying peacefully together in the matrimonial house.
7, PW2 Md. Nizam Ali stated that he is the complainant. He knows
the accused person. Victim (PW1) is his daughter. Her daughter developed
love-affairs with the accused and they got married without their consent.
Hence, he lodged complaint against the accused and police recovered his
daughter and handed-over her to him. However, later on they accepted her
i yo marriage with the accused and out of the wedlock, a child was born to them
\ \\ and they are staying peacefully together in the matrimonial house. Ext.1 is
special Judge, the ejahar. He put his thumb impression in Ext.1.
Dhemail. In cross- examination PW2 stated that he has no objection if
the accused is acquitted in this case.
Appreciation of evidence :
8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that
in this case the victim and the complainant-Md. Nizam Ali were examined as
P.W-1 and PW2 respectively. In their evidence this two vital witnesses stated
that the victim girl had love affairs with the accused and she (victim) got
married with him (the accused) without the consent of her parents. So, PW2
(father of the victim) lodged complaint against the accused and police
recovered the victim and handed-over to her parent. Later on, parents of the
victim accepted victim’s marriage with the accused. As a result of the
wedlock, they ( victim & accused) were blessed with a child and now they are
living together peacefully as husband and wife in the matrimonial home. In
cross-examination, PW2, father of the victim, stated that he has no objection
if the accused is acquitted in this case. Prosecution side declined to examine
the remaining witnesses on the ground that examination of other witnesses
will not improve the prosecution case at all. Victim in her evidence stated that
her age is 19 years.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences. This is a case of no evidence. It is also seen from the
evidence of the PWs- 1 and 2 that both the parties have compromised the
case outside the Court and hence they have not deposed against the
accused. I find that the prosecution has totally failed to prove the charges
u/S 366/376 of IPC read with Sec.- 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused.
10. In view of the above, I find the accused-Lalbabu Rai @ Rajib
not guilty u/s 366/376 of the I.P.C. read with Section-4 of POCSO Act.
Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charges leveled against him. Set him at
liberty forthwith.

ti. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 14%
day of December/ 2018. ape
wn
( $\ Das )
Spgsdal Judge,

Banja)
