HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE BILASIPARA

Present:- Smti S. Bhuyan, AJS
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Special Case No- 08 of 2016
u/s 4 of POCSO Act

STATE
Versus
Mohasen Ali
Accused person

(Corresponding to GR case No- 1010/16 u/s 4 of POCSO Act)

Advocate appeared:-

For the state:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Special P.P.

For the accused:- Mr. N.I Choudhury, Smt Syeda Afruza Akhtar, Advocate.

Date of institution of the case :- 30-06-16
Date of Framing charge :- 07-06-17
Date of prosecution evidence :- 07-02-18,15-06-18,21-06-18,11-07-18

Statement of accused recorded on _ :- 27-08-18

Date of Argument :- 15-09-18
Judgment delivered :- 29-09-18
Hearing on sentence :- 04-10-18

Sentence pronounced :- 04-10-18
2|Page

JUDGMENT
Prosecution Case

1. This prosecution case set on motion based on the ejahar filed by
prosecutrix on 30-06-16 before i/c Salkocha out post inter alia citing that on
14-06-16 at about 02.00 pm while she was returning home from Salkocha
Public ME School, accused Mohasen Ali present near to his house restrained
her and by enticing her taken her to an isolated place and then sexual
intercourse with her. After committing sexual intercourse with her, accused
Mohasen given threatening to her that if she discloses the incident to anyone
he will kill her. Out of fear she could not disclose the incident to any other
person and left to some other place and her brother Baser Ali brought her
back from Haryana and then she disclosed the incident and due to said
reason there was delay in lodging ejahar.
Investigation

2. On receipt of ejahar from prosecutrix i/c Salkocha oust post forwarded
the same to O/C Chapar PS for registration of the case and O/C Chapar PS
registered the police case vide Chapar PS case no. 258/16 u/s 4 of POCSO
Act and SI Muktajur Rahman was entrusted to conduct the investigation of
the case and after completion of investigation I/O submitted charge sheet
against the accused person named herein above u/s 4 of POCSO Act and
cognizance taken and upon appearance of the accused person, necessary

copies has been furnished to him.

Charge

3. After hearing learned counsel for both sides and perusal of material
on record charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused person
Mohasen Ali and when charges are read over and explained to the accused
person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
Trial

4. In order to prove the prosecution charges against the accused person,
prosecution adduced evidence of all together 8 number of witnesses and
exhibited 5 nos. of documents. PW-1 Baser Ali, PW-2 Pastola Khatun, PW-3
Prosecutrix, PW-4 Mofijuddin Mollah, PW-5 Omela Khatun, PW-6 Hunufa Bibi,
PW-7 Dr. Muskura Ahmed (M.O) and PW-8 SI Muktajur Rahman( 1.0). Ext-1
3|Page

Ejahar, Ext-2 Statement of victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C, Ext-3 Medical
report, Ext-4 Sketch Map and Ext-5 Charge sheet. After closure of the
prosecution evidence, statement of the accused person recorded u/s 313
Cr.P.C. Accused plea is denial, however declined to adduced evidence in
support of the plea of denial.

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

i) Whether victim was below the 18 years of age at the time of incident
i.e on 14-06-16?

ii) Whether accused on 14-06-16 at about 02.00 pm at village Pachim
Salkocha under Chapar PS, committed penetrative sexual assault on

prosecutrix?

ARGUMENT

6. It has been argued by Ld. Addl. P.P that victim who had lodged the
case is vital witness and she is aged about 14 years and incident was took
place 2 years back when she was only 12 years old and at the time of
incident she could not disclose the fact as she was given threatening by the
accused person and therefore out of fear and embarrassment suffered by
her, she left to Haryana with her relative and she had explained the cause of
delay in filing ejahar which is reasonable and sufficient in view of the fact of
incident of rape upon the girl who is minor girl of only 12 years. He further
submitted victim in her all the statement made consistent statement that
when she was coming from school to her home, accused enticing her telling
sweet words and then committed rape on her in isolated place behind the
bushes. Her statement is fully corroborated by other witnesses and there
nothing comes out from her evidence why girl of 12 years old will falsely
implicate the accused and her evidence is un-assailable during her cross
examination by defence and her evidence alone is sufficient to hold accused
guilty but here her evidence is also supported and corroborated by other
piece of evidence. He further submitted the report of doctor does not wash
away the prosecution case and prosecution charge made against the accused
is established beyond all reasonable doubt.

i It has been argued by Ld. defence counsel that the delay of 16 days
of lodging ejahar is not properly explained and therefore prosecution case is
fatal. Learned counsel further submitted victim leaving to Delhi and Haryana

with her pehi shown that she went to Delhi for fun and if in reality the
4|Page

incident of rape was took place with her then by naturally she cannot go
outside for fun and her pleasurable fun tour with the pehi shown that this is
totally false case against the accused. He further submitted that prosecution
could not prove that on the day of incident victim went to attend school and
she returned from the school and her presence at school is not proved by
adducing evidence of school attendance register. He further submitted that
three persons went to Haryana to bring back victim girl but prosecution did
not produce the evidence of all the three persons and victim was brought
from Haryana is also not established by adducing cogent evidence and simply
PWs stated that victim went to Haryana and then she was brought back from
Haryana is not a true fact and this fact is not established. If she went to
Haryana then prosecution has to establish the same by showing the train
ticket/ flight ticket etc but prosecution did not dispense the same. He
submitted there is no missing report lodged by the parents prior to the
incident and bringing her from Haryana and no statement was recorded by
police when victim was brought from the Haryana and these are nothing but
lame excuse made by the prosecution only to cover the delay and the case is
not at all established. He submitted the victim mother not stated that
prosecutrix was missing and she did not report her son about victim's
departure to Haryana and her pehi Monowara is not examined with whom
victim went to Haryana. Therefore victim’s departure to Haryana is not
proved and she was at her home. He further submitted there is no believable
evidence coming out from the mouth of prosecutrix and other witnesses
which can be acted upon to hold accused guilty and the witnesses are related
witness and therefore their evidence cannot be acted upon and this case is
lodged only because accused raised objection when victim’s family wanted to
give marriage of victim girl who is a minor girl and therefore they sent victim
to Haryana and they brought up a story of rape against the accused which is
clearly evidence from the delay of lodging of the ejahar which is lodged
without showing and explaining sufficient reason of delay and therefore
prosecution case not all established and accused entitled benefit of doubt and
prays for acquittal.
PROSECUTION EVIDENCE

8. Evidence of PW-1 Baser Ali is that prosecutrix is his sister and he
knows the accused person present before the court. He deposed he being

rickshaw puller, was present at Guwahati at the time of incident. Getting
5|Page

information that his sister was missing, he came to his house and made
search of his prosecutrix sister and over phone he got information from his
relatives that his sister is found at Haryana. Accordingly he along with his
brother Islamuddin and dewani Aman Ali went to Haryana and bring
prosecutrix to their house. Thereafter on being asked, his prosecutrix sister
told before him that on the day of incident while she was going to school,
accused Mohasen Ali took her and committed rape on her and accused also
given threatening to her. Thereafter his prosecutrix sister lodged ejahar. In
cross he stated his sister lodged ejahar after one week of the incident and
his prosecutrix sister went to the Haryana with Monowara who hails from
their village. He stated they call Monowara “phupi” and long back Monowara
got married at Haryana. He stated his prosecutrix sister was studied at
Salkocha M.E School and she went to school to attend her class alone. He
stated his house stands less than one mile distance from accused’s house and
Rias, Sujal and Sahar Ali were his neighbour. He stated he was staying at
Guwahati for his work and his wife, prosecutrix, his parents, his other sisters
and one mentally sick brother live in their house. He further stated he
informed police and lodged ejahar about missing of his victim sister. He
stated police recorded his statement and he made statement before police
that on getting information that his victim sister went to Delhi, he proceeded
to Delhi and there he got to know that his victim sister was at Haryana and
accordingly he went to Haryana and bring her back from Haryana. He denied
they give prosecutrix to marriage at Haryana, thereafter brought her at their
house and falsely lodged case against the accused; as it is a decision making
case, ejahar was lodged after too much delay; his victim sister went to
Haryana of her own; accused did not commit rape on his victim sister.

9. PW-2 Pastola Khatun deposed prosecutrix is her daughter and she
knows accused person. She deposed at the time of incident her victim
daughter was studied in Salkocha ME School. She deposed when her
daughter returning back home from her school, accused Mohasen dragged
her daughter towards jungle and committed rape on her and said fact was
told to her by her victim daughter. She deposed accused given threatening to
her victim daughter that if she would disclosed the commission of rape on her
by accused, then accused would _ kill her and because of said threatening her
victim daughter went to Haryana at her relative Monowara’s house.
Thereafter they informed Baser Ali. Accordingly Baser Ali came home and

then went to Haryana and brought back her victim daughter from Haryana
6|Page

and thereafter her victim daughter lodged ejahar. She further deposed during
investigation her victim daughter was brought to Magistrate and she made
statement before the Magistrate. In cross she stated at the time of incident
her victim daughter was studied at Salkocha Pachim ME School and her victim
daughter left home for her school at 08.00 am alone. She stated her victim
daughter also return back from school alone and she does not have any
friend. She stated Monowara married at Haryana and she lived there. She
stated her victim daughter did not tell her at the time of living her to Haryana
that accused Mohasen committed rape on her. She stated her victim daughter
told her about the incident after returning from Haryana and she knew that
her victim daughter went with the company of Monowara to visit Haryana.
She stated her victim daughter returned back after 8/9 days of her leaving to
Haryana and there was no discussion took place at their home about the
incident during those 8/9 days stay of her victim daughter at Haryana. She
stated one village chalisa was held to discuss the incident and in the said
bichar Nur Islam, Sabor Ali, Aman Ali and other neighbours of her houses
were present. She denied they sent prosecutrix i.e ‘her victim daughter to
Haryana with Monowara to give marriage of prosecutrix at Haryana; as
marriage of prosecutrix was not held at Haryana, after bringing her at their
home, they lodged false case against the accused Mohasen; no village chalisa
held’.

10. PW-3 is the prosecutrix. Her evidence is that she knows accused.
Incident was took place about 1 year 8 months back and at the time of
incident she was studied at Pachim Salkocha ME school and classes were over
at 02.00 pm. She deposed after school while she was returning back to
home, accused was present near his house and accused dragged her towards
the jungle behind the back of his house and then committed rape on her.
Thereafter accused given her threatening not to disclose the matter to
anyone and if she disclosed the incident he would kill her. After that she went
to Haryana with her pehi Monowara and her brother Baser Ali getting
information brought back her from Haryana. She stated her brother and other
village people asked her what happened to her to which she narrated the
incident of rape committed by accused to other family members and
neighbours. She deposed one village chalisa was held to discuss about the
incident but as accused did not accept the verdict of village chalisa, she
lodged ejahar. She further deposed after lodging of the ejahar police

produced her before the doctor for medical examination, produced her before
7|Page

the Magistrate and she made statement before the Magistrate. She deposed
Ext-1 is ejahar and Ext-2 is her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C and Ext
1(1), 2(1), 2(2) are her signatures. In cross she stated she studies in school
and still she is studying in Pachim Salkocha ME School. She stated she went
to school with her sister Firoza and they reach school on foot which is one
mile away from their house. She stated she did not go to school in the public
carrier vehicle. She stated village market is about 2/3 farlong away from her
house. Thereafter several shops present at the village market and if she go
from the village market, then first accused’s house is reached and thereafter
her house. She stated she cannot say whether her sister and sister in law
were present at house at the time of incident. She stated after commission of
rape by the accused on her, she went home and on that day she told incident
to her kha/la Amena and Amena told her mother. She stated on the day of
incident she did not tell the incident of rape to her mother, her sister in law
and her sisters and she did not disclose the incident of rape to anybody on
the day of incident. She stated she went to Haryana with her pehi Monowara
and stayed there three days in the house of Monowara at Haryana and she
told her parents that she is going to Haryana with her pehi Monowara. She
stated she did not shout when accused dragged her and committed rape on
her as accused did not allow her to raise alarm. She stated she lodged ejahar
after returning home from Haryana. After returning from Haryana, bichar was
called but as bichar not held, she lodged ejahar. She stated ejahar was read
over to her after writing and thereafter she put her signature. She stated her
brother Baser accompanying Tahej went to Haryana to bring her back and
neither she narrated the incident of rape to her pehi Monowara nor to her
brother Baser at Haryana. She again stated on the day of incident she did not
narrate the incident to her khala Amena, she told her subsequently. She
denied she deposed falsely that accused had committed rape on her; her
parents, brother sent her to Haryana with Monowara to give her marriage; as
her marriage was not held at Haryana, she returned back to her hometown
and falsely lodged this case against accused.

11. Evidence of PW-4 Mofijuddin Mollah is that he knows prosecutrix and
accused person. He deposed about 2 years back when he came to his house
from Nagaland, police came to his house and took his name and address and
asked him if he knows anything about the incident to which he replied that he

has no knowledge about the incident. Defence declined to cross examine him.
8|Page

12. PW-5 Omela Khatun deposed she knows prosecutrix and accused
person. She deposed prosecutrix told her that accused called her while she
was taking bath but she did not disclose what accused did with her. She
deposed she made statement before police that prosecutrix later on disclose
her that she was hold (saboti dhorisi! ) by accused and accused Mohasen
raped and ravished her dragging in her in the jungle. In cross she stated
house of prosecutrix is near to her house and accused’s house is after 2/3
house from her house. She stated she heard that prosecutrix went to the
house of Monowara at Haryana. She stated her children studied at school but
her children did not go to school with the company of prosecutrix. She stated
prosecutrix disclose the incident to her after her returning from Haryana after
the case and when prosecutrix disclose her about the incident, she informed
the same to the mother of prosecutrix and she did not hear any incident prior
to the disclosure of the same by the prosecutrix after her returning from
Haryana. She stated she has no knowledge about holding of village bichar in
respect of the incident. She denied prosecutrix did not told her that accused
Mohasen called her while she was taking bath and accused raped and
ravished her; she did not made statement before police that accused hold
(saboti dhorisil) prosecutrix and committed rape on her dragging her in the
jungle and prosecution disclose this fact to her.

13. Evidence of PW-6 Hunufa Bibi is that she knows prosecutrix and
accused person. She deposed she heard from prosecutrix that when
prosecutrix was returning home from her school, accused Mohasen dragged
her holding her hand and accused embraced her (asami e prosecutrix ok hath
dhori jongolot tani pasra pasri korisil buli amak jonai) and prosecutrix told her
said fact after her returning from Haryana. She deposed prosecutrix told her
that as accused dragged her in the jungle and embraced her, she went to
Haryana. In cross she stated Baser Ali is her husband and prosecutrix is her
sister in law. She stated sisters of prosecutrix also attend their school and all
the three sisters studied in different school and they went to their school by
using different route and all of them used to attend their school on foot. She
stated she heard the incident when prosecutrix narrated the incident to other
person in her presence and the incident was not discussed at her in law’s
house when prosecutrix went to Haryana. She stated prosecutrix went to
Haryana in the house of Monowara and prosecutrix was first not allowed to
visit Haryana but prosecutrix did not listen and went to Haryana in the house

of Monowara. She stated her husband was not present when prosecutrix
9|Page

visited Haryana and her husband was working at Guwahati and they informed
her husband Baser Ali that something happen to prosecutrix and she did not
disclose same to them and went to Haryana inspite of their restriction. She
denied she deposed falsely as prosecutrix is her sister-in-law.

14. PW-7 Dr. Muskura Ahmed is M.O. Her evidence is that on 30-06-16
she examined prosecutrix under reference GD entry no. 596 of Salkocha out
post and found- general physical examination- no abnormality detected;
examination of injuries- no abnormality detected; local examination of genital
parts- external genitalia- no abnormality detected; hymen- torn; vagina and
cervix- no abnormality detected; anus- no abnormality detected; menstrual
history- normal; vaginal swab sent for clinical examination- no spermatozoa
was found. According to her opinion patient was not consistent with recent
sexual intercourse. In cross she stated as the patient was 12 years old, she
was unable to speak the history. She stated at the time of examination no
injury was detected on the body of patient.

15. PW-8 SI Muktajur Rahman is the I.O of the case. His evidence is that
on 30-06-2016 he was posted at Salkocha out post as in-charge. On that day,
prosecutrix lodged written ejahar at Salkocha O.P. and after making G. D.
Entry 596 dated 30-06-2016 in the General diary kept in the police outpost he
had forwarded ejahar to O/C Chapar P.S. for registration of the police case.
Accordingly O/C Chapar PS registered Chapar PS Case No. 258/16 u/s 4 of
the POCSO Act and endorsed him to investigate the case. He deposed during
investigation he had recorded the statement of the informant/victim,
produced her before the doctor at Dhubri Civil Hospital for her medical
examination thereafter produced her before the court to record her statement
u/s 164 Cr.P.C. He further deposed he had visited place of occurrence,
drawn sketch map, recorded statement of the available witnesses. Accused
Mohasen Ali surrendered before him at Salkocha O.P. on 08-08-2016.
Accordingly after interrogating him, finding material against him he had
arrested accused Mohasen Ali and forwarded him before the court. Thereafter
after collecting medical report of the victim and finding sufficient
incrementing material against the accused he have submitted charge sheet
against the accused Mohasen Ali vide Ext.5. In cross he stated prosecutrix
Studies in Pachim Salkocha M. E. School but he did not ask her distance of
the school from her home. He stated he did not record statement of the
Headmaster of the school, to find out whether prosecutrix attend her school

on the date of incident or not and prosecutrix and her relative not stated
10| Page

before him who accompanied victim to her school. He stated incident was
took place on 14-06-16 and FIR was lodged on 30-06-16 and he had taken
the reason of delay from the family member of the victim but not from the
victim. He stated he did not visit Delhi in connection with this case and
recorded statement of Monowara. He stated victim did not stated reason of
her visit in Delhi after the incident but her one brother stated that due to the
incident victim went to Delhi. He stated house of accused Mohasen Ali is near
to the house of victim in the same village and in his case diary and in Ext.4
sketch-map he had mentioned the mark A, B, C, D and P. He stated he
neither collect the age certificate of the victim from the school nor collect the
admission register of the school. He stated witness Hunufa not stated before
him that prosecutrix told her that accused dragged her inside the jungle
holding her hand and embarrassed (pasra-pasri kore). He stated when he
produced victim before the doctor for her examination he made prayer for

ascertaining age of the victim.

DISCUSSION, DECISION & REASON THERE OFF:-

 

16. This is a case of penetrative sexual assault on girl of 12 years old at
the time of incident by the accused. According to the ejahar Ext-1 incident
was took place in isolated place behind the bushes/jungle. Admittedly there is
no eye witness. In offence of sexual assault on girl/woman there is no
witness present and offender commit the offence when girl/woman is found
alone at their house or in isolated place so to flee from the incident easily and
so that none could see the incident and can easily suppress the incident and
this is a case of no eye witness. In cases when there is no eye witness the
circumstances appear in the case plays pivotal role and in the case of sexual
assault/rape on woman/girl the statement of the evidence of prosecutrix
(victim) is most vital to determine the fate of the case. As there is no eye
witness in this case, let me scrutinize the evidence on record and let me find
out whether evidence of victim girl is believable, derived confidence free from
biasness and in consistent with her earlier statement and trustworthy and
unassailable to hold accused guilty of the prosecution charge.

17. PW-3 is the victim girl of this case and therefore she is star witness of
this case. Now let me scrutinize her evidence. At the time of adducing her
evidence she stated her age as 14 years. According to her, incident was took

place 1 year 8 months back. The victim girl at the time of lodging ejahar
11| Page

mention her age as 12 years. At the time of making statement before the Id.
Magistrate, she stated her age 12 years when she was produced before the Id
Magistrate court to record her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C and IO of the case in
his forwarding stated age of victim as 12 years. PW—7, MO of the case in
cross stated victim was aged about 12 years. Accused in his 313 Cr.P.C stated
victim was minor at the time of incident. The defence plea is that as victim
was minor and her marriage was fixed so accused restrained her guardian to
give her in marriage and therefore this case has been filed against him. The
fact appears from the defence plea is that victim girl of the case was minor at
the time of incident and she was a student of ME school. When minority of
the victim is admitted by accused no other proof of age of the victim is
required and that victim was 12 years of age is proved beyond all reasonable
doubt and she was under the age of 18 years and was a minor at the time of
incident and was 12 years of age at the time of incident is established.

18. PW-3 victim in her evidence stated after school when she was
returning back, accused who was present near his house dragged her
towards the jungle behind the back of his house and committed rape on her
thereafter accused given her threatening not to disclose the incident to
anyone and if she disclose she will be killed. After that she went to Haryana
with her pehi and her brother getting information brought back her from
Haryana and on her returning back to her village, village people and her
brother asked her what happened to her and then she narrated the incident
of rape by accused to them and other family members and neighbour.
Thereafter, one village chalisa was held to discuss about the incident but
accused did not accept the decision of the village chalisa. Thereafter she
lodged ejahar and during investigation she was medically examined by the
doctor and she made statement before the Magistrate. Ext-1 is ejahar. Ext -2
is her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Ext 1(1), 2(1) are her signatures.
19. In the ejahar victim alleged that on 14-06-16 while she was returning
home from school on foot, accused restraining her enticed her and taken her
to isolated place of jungle and then sexual intercourse with her. Thereafter
accused given her threatening to kill her if she disclose the incident. Resulting
she did not disclose the incident to any other person and left to some other
place and her brother Baser Ali brought her back from Haryana and then she
disclosed the incident. In chief PW-3 victim of the case made statement
whatever she had stated in her ejahar that at the time of incident while she

was returning home from the school, accused Mohasen took her from the
12| Page

road towards the jungle and then committed rape on her and then accused
threatening her to kill if she disclosed the incident and for this reason she left
her home. Ext-2 is her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. In her statement
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C she stated at the time of incident about 1 month
back from the date of recording her statement, accused taken her from the
road to the back side of his house in the jungle and then committed rape on
her and given her threatening to kill her if she disclose the incident and then
She left to Delhi with her pehi Monowara. She stated she narrated the
incident to Amela and Amela narrated the incident to her mother. Thus
shown that in her 164 Cr.P.C statement, victim made similar statement what
she had made in her ejahar. Before court she made same consistent piece of
statement. In her 161 Cr.P.C statement she stated at the time of incident
after her school while she was returning home, accused dragged her towards
the jungle present at the back side of his house and then committed forceful
sexual assault with her and given her threatening not to disclose the incident.
Thereafter she went to Delhi with her pehi Monowara and her brother Baser
brought back her from Haryana. It is seen from reading of the statement of
victim that she has made similar statement in all the stages and there is no
addition and no making and concoction. Her piece of statement remain intact
in all the stages and she does not deviate from her earlier statement and I
find her piece of statement consistent with her all earlier piece of statements
and same is trustworthy.

20. During cross examination by the defence she stated still she is school
student. At the time of recording her examination she was student of class
VIII. She stated at 07.00 am she went to Mukteb thereafter she went to
school with her sister Firoza which is about 1 mile away from their house and
they went to school on foot. In cross she further stated she did not board
public vehicle to reach the school. She stated village market is about 2/3
farlong away from their house where several shops were present and about
7/8 other people living near her house. Her cross shown that when she has to
go from the village market accused house is reach first thereafter her house
came and her house is near the house of accused in the same line. She
stated after rape she went home and told incident to her khala Amena and
her khala Amena told the same to her mother but she did not told incident of
rape to her mother, her sister in law and her sisters and not disclose the
incident of rape to anybody after the incident. She stated she went to

Haryana with her pehi where she stays for 3 days in the house of pehi and
13| Page

she told her parents she was going Haryana with her pehi Monowara. Her
cross shown while accused was dragging and committing rape on her, she
was alone and she could not raise alarm as accused did not allow her to raise
alarm. She denied defence suggestion that she lodged false case against the
accused and therefore she did not disclose the incident to anybody. Her cross
is that after returning from Haryana one bichar was called but as bichar was
not held she lodged the ejahar and she put her signature on the ejahar after
writing the ejahar and at the time of lodging ejahar her father and brother
were also present and ejahar was read over to her after writing and
thereafter she put her signature. Her cross is that her brother Baser
accompanying Tahej went to bring back her and Tahej is her cousin brother
but she did not disclose the incident of rape to her pehi and not disclosed the
incident of rape at Haryana to her brother Baser. She denied defence
suggestion that her parents, brother sent her to Haryana with Monowara to
give her marriage and as her marriage was not held at Haryana, she returned
back to home town and falsely lodged case against the accused.

21. On the close scrutiny of the statement of PW-3 it is seen that she
went to Haryana after the incident is clearly appearing from the cross
examination of the defence. Thus, the submission of Id. defence counsel that
prosecution failed to prove that victim girl went to Haryana is not proved is
beyond the cross examination of defence and the defence plea. The victim at
the time of incident is 12 years old and accused at that time was man of aged
about 46+. Scanning of her evidence shown that accused given her
threatening not to disclose the incident to any other person and if she
discloses she will be killed. One 12 years old girl is getting threatening from a
man of 46+ after committing sexual intercourse with her so, it is easily
imaginable what would be the after math of said 12 years old girl and what
would be her psychology, mental condition so thus when accused given her
threatening to kill her if she disclosed the incident it is quite natural for the
victim that out of fear she did not disclose the incident to anyone and when
she get chance to go outside with her pehi, she went outside to relieve
herself from the pain strain, stress that she had been suffering from the time
of commission of rape on her. The tender age of the victim girl is the answer
itself not to disclose the incident immediately to other when she get
threatening from accused after the incident.

22. PW-1 in his evidence stated that he used to reside at Guwahati being

rickshaw puller at the time of incident and getting information of his sister
14| Page

missing he came to his native house and got information that his victim sister
is at Haryana. Accordingly he along with his brother Islamuddin and dewani
Aman Ali went to Haryana and bring his victim sister to home. Thereafter
when they asked what happened to her, she replied that on the day of
incident accused Mohasen Ali took her and committed rape on her and also
given her threatening. The victim PW-3 stated that after returning from
Haryana she narrated the incident to her brother Baser Ali and it was her
brother Baser Ali with other went to Haryana to bring back her. The conjoint
reading of the statement of PW-1 with PW-3 shown that both of them
corroborated each other statement on the material point that after the
incident prosecutrix went to Haryana and then she was bring back by her
brother and after that she narrated the incident that accused had committed
rape on her while she was coming from school and accused given threatening
to her. Cross of PW-1 pointed victim girl went to Haryana with one Monowara
hails from their village. Victim girl also stated she went to Haryana with
Monowera after the incident due to threatening given by accused. Cross of
PW-1 further pointed at the time of incident victim girl was student of
Salkocha ME School and she went to school alone. This again establish the
statement of the PW-3 that she was student of Salkocha ME School at the
time of incident and went to school alone on the date of incident. The house
of accused is on west side of PW-1’s house. Evidence of PW-3 further pointed
that to reach their house from school, she had to cross the house of accused.
Thus again establish from the cross examination of PW-1 and PW-3 the victim
of the case that accused house is near to their house and accused house
reached first if victim come from school to her home and on the date of
incident victim went to school and incident was took place when she was
returning home from the school. In cross PW-1 denied defence suggestion
that they give prosecutrix in marriage at Haryana, thereafter they brought her
at their house and falsely lodged case against the accused. While cross
examining victim, defence put suggestion to PW-3 victim that she was send
to Haryana for her marriage and as her marriage not held at Haryana she
returned to her native village and lodged the case. Thus, shown defence plea
itself is contradictory and conflicting one to another. Cross examination of
PW-1 revealed that defence totally failed to distract from his stand and he
made similar consistent statement in all the stages that on the date of

incident victim went to her school. Incident was took place on her returning
15|Page

home from school. Accused given her threatening and thereafter victim went
to Haryana.

23. PW-2 stated victim girl is her daughter. She knows accused and about
1 and 8 months ago from the day of adducing her evidence incident was took
place and at that time her victim daughter was studying in Salkocha ME
School. When her victim daughter was returning home from her school,
accused Mohasen dragged her towards the jungle and then committed rape
on her daughter and her daughter disclose the incident to her. Her further
evidence pointed accused had given threatening to her daughter if she
disclose the incident to anyone, accused will kill her and because of said
threatening her daughter went to Haryana at their relative Monowara’s
house.

24. — The victim at the time of incident studied at Salkocha ME school is
established from the evidence of PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 and other PWs. PW-2
in her cross as well as in her chief stated accused given threatening to her
daughter not to disclose the incident. It is reveal form the record that at the
time of incident victim was minor girl of 12 years and accused given her
threatening to kill her if she disclose the incident to other and accused
restrained 12 years old victim girl not to disclosed the incident to other on
threatening to kill her so thus, it is quite possible that out of fear to die, she
did not disclose the incident to other and went to Haryana with her relative
Monowara to relieve herself from the pain, strain, trauma and mental
condition. PW-1, PW-2 stated that after bringing her from Haryana by PW-1
Baser Ali, the brother of victim, victim girl disclosed the incident when her
brother Baser asked about the fact of her leaving to Haryana and at that time
she got courage to disclose the same as her elder brother is with her and
after meeting all the family members she narrated the incident as by this time
she was able to collect sufficient mental courage to disclosed the incident of
rape to other. It is reveal that at the time of incident her brother Baser was
not present and Baser Ali questioned to her what happened to her when they
reached at their native house. So on way she did not stated incident of rape
to him as he did not ask her anything at that time. When incident of rape
occurred to 12 years minor girl it is easily understood the trauma, mental
condition of the girl and she has received threatening to get killed if she
disclose and this is sufficient reason at that time PW-3 victim did not
disclosed the incident. But she did not disclose the incident at that time does

not mean that she is lying before the court. PW-3 in all her statement
16| Page

categorically and specifically stated that she was raped by the accused
Mohasen after dragging her into the jungle on the back side of his house
while she was returning home from the school and was given threatening not
to disclosed the same to others and if she disclosed he will kill her.

25. Both PW-1 and PW-2 denied defence suggestion that they sent victim
girl to Haryana with Monowara to give her marriage at Haryana. PW-1 and
PW-2 further denied that they lodged false case against the accused as
marriage of victim girl was not held at Haryana. Cross of PW-1 pointed that
one village chalisa was held to discuss about the incident which was held
after returning back of victim girl from Haryana.

26. Evidence of PW-5 shown that she made statement before police that
PW-3 victim later on disclose to her that accused held her (saboti dhorisil)
and accused committed rape on her dragging her to jungle. The statement
admitted by PW-5 while adducing her evidence on oath made crystal clear
that victim at one point disclose the incident of rape committed by accused to
her before PW-5. PW-3 stated she narrated the incident to Amela after the
incident. Thus the piece of statement made by PW-3 that she narrated the
incident to one Amela on the very first day after the incident is again
corroborated by the statement made by PW-5 in her in chief. The facts once
admitted need not to be proved again. PW-5 admitted in her in chief that she
made statement before the police about the disclosing of the incident to her
by PW-3. Her cross reveals that when victim girl narrated the incident to her,
she narrated the same to her mother. Victim girl also stated while adducing
her evidence that she narrated the incident to one Amela and Amela narrated
the same to her mother. Cross of PW-5 strengthen the statement made by
PW-3 before the court and there is nothing to presume against the PW-3 that
she had falsely implicate the accused. Victim girl stated she went to school
alone. Her mother also stated she went to school alone. Cross examination of
PW-5 also shown that her daughter did not go to school with victim girl and
victim girl also studied in school. She also known that victim girl went to the
house of Monowara at Haryana. The cross examination of PW-5 by the
defence pointed that victim went to Haryana with Monowara and the fact
which accused admitted while cross examining the witnesses that victim went
to Haryana cannot turn down at the time of argument that she did not went
to Haryana and her visiting Haryana is not established and proved because of
non-submission of train ticket, flight ticket etc. The fact that she went to

Haryana is admitted fact and again fact once admitted need no prove.
17| Page

27. PW-6 also stated in her evidence that she heard from victim girl that
while she was returning home from school, accused Mohasen dragged her
holding her hand and embraced her. PW-6 stated accused had held the hand
of prosecutrix and did pasra pasri with prosecutrix. The word pasra pasri
stated by the PW-6 shown that victim was sexually assaulted by the accused.
The girl of 12 years old was dragged by man of 46+ years and he did pasra
pasri with the poor little girl mean nothing but sexual assault on her. In
appropriate touching of a minor girl by a man is nothing but sexual assault in
penetrative form. PW-6 further stated the victim also told her that accused
dragged her in the jungle and embraced her. The statement of PW-6 makes it
abundantly clear that accused sexually assaulted victim which is penetrative
in nature. The words spoken by the PW-6 only goes to show that PW-3 is the
victim of sexual assault in the hands of accused Mohasen. Her evidence
further pointed victim girl narrated the incident to other persons in her
presence. Her further evidence shown her husband Baser Ali was not present
when incident of rape took place on victim and victim girl went to Haryana
and he was informed about the incident after the incident. The victim in all
the statement specifically stated that she went to Haryana out of fear and
because of incident of rape. Reason of victim to visit Haryana is carefully
explained by victim and corroborated by other PWs. The allegation of the
victim made against the accused has been fairly corroborated by the PW-6.
The case of the prosecution is not of kidnapping of victim as such none of the
PWs including PW1 stated that victim was kidnapped and therefore no case of
kidnapping was lodged. Prosecution case is of committing penetrative sexual
assault on victim by accused and victim narrated this incident of penetrative
sexual assault on her by accused to all the PWs and same has been
corroborated by all the PWs except the PW-4 who shown ignorance about the
incident.

28. It is easily understood the mental condition of rape victim after the
rape incident. When rape incident took place on a girl, a girl mentally and
physically broke down because of loss of her chastity, loss of honour, loss of
her inner voice of womanhood and it is insult and injury of the womanhood
and when 12 years old girl is rape under threatening, so her condition and
mental status is even worse and very miserable and here in the case in hand
the poor victim girl who was aged about only 12 years only to forget the
incident of rape that took place on her, she went to Haryana. On the very

beginning victim stated her reason to visit to the Haryana and she reasonably
18| Page

stated the reason of delay in filing the ejahar because of the aforesaid fact of
threatening she received from the accused after the incident for which she
went to Haryana and when her brother brings back her from Haryana and
asked her reason of her leaving to Haryana, she narrated the incident and
when village salisa was failed she lodged the ejahar. The reason of delay
which have been coming out from the evidence on record under the facts and
circumstances is reasonable ground of delay in filing the ejahar.

29. Hon’ble Apex court in State of Punjab vs Gurmeet Singh & Ors, (1996)
2 SCC, 384 observed “The courts cannot over-look the fact that in sexual
offences delay in the lodging of the FIR can be due to variety of reasons
particularly the reluctance of the prosecutrix or her family members to go to
the police and complain about the incident which concerns the reputation of
the prosecutrix and the honour of her family. It is only after giving it a cool
thought that a complaint of sexual offence is generally lodged”. In Tulshidas
vs State of Goa, AIR 2004 SC 978 It is held that Prosecution case cannot be
discarded solely on the ground of delay.

30. In the case in hand I find prosecution fairly able to explain the reason
of delay in filing the case and I do not find any adversary for 16 days delay in
filing the case when victim and her family member lives in village where
social stigma present and victim is a girl of only 12 years and it is a case of
rape on 12 years old minor girl and minor girl of 12 years is giving
threatening call by accused to end her life.

31. It has been argued by learned defence counsel that evidence of PWs
are hearsay evidence and not an admissible piece of evidence and PW-1, PW-
2, PW-5 PW-6 are close relative of victim so their evidence is not acceptable.
32. Cross examination of PW-1, PW-2 PW-3, PW-5 and PW-6 revealed
that all of them heard incident from PW-3, the victim of the case. Evidence of
PW-1, PW-2, PW-5 and PW-6 further pointed victim went to school to attend
her class alone and evidence of PW-6 further shown all the three sister of
victim girl attended their school and studied in different school and they went
to their school by using different route and all of them went to school on
foot. She again stated whatever statements she made before the court are
disclosed to her by victim girl. Thus when their piece of testimonies reflect
they stated what they had been heard from the victim is not the hearsay
evidence but primary evidence.

33. Section 60 of the Evidence Act say oral evidence must of direct.

Oral evidence must, in all cases whatever, be direct; that is to say— If it
19| Page

refers to a fact which could be seen, it must be the evidence of a witness
who says he saw it; If it refers to a fact which could be heard, it must be the
evidence of a witness who says he heard it; If it refers to a fact which could
be perceived by any other sense or in any other manner, it must be the
evidence of a witness who says he perceived it by that sense or in that
manner; If it refers to an opinion or to the grounds on which that opinion is
held, it must be the evidence of the person who holds that opinion on those
grounds: Provided that the opinions of experts expressed in any treatise
commonly offered for sale, and the grounds on which such opinions are held,
may be proved by the production of such treatises if the author is dead or
cannot be found, or has become incapable of giving evidence, or cannot be
called as a witness without an amount of delay or expense which the Court
regards as unreasonable: Provided also that, if oral evidence refers to the
existence or condition of any material thing other than a document, the Court
may, if it thinks fit, require the production of such material thing for its
inspection.

34. Reading of section 60 of the Evidence Act and perusal of testimonies
of the PW-1, PW-2, PW-5 and PW-6, I find their piece of testimonies covered
with the provision of section 60 Evidence Act and they have stated whatever
they heard from the victim and their evidence is not hearsay evidence and it
is primary evidence and submission of learned counsel not accepted.

35. Upon meticulous scrutiny of the evidence of PW-1, PW-2, PW-5 and
PW-6 it is seen that during lengthy cross examination of all the aforesaid PWs
by the defence, defence failed to bring a single words, reason as to why they
would falsely implicate the accused of raping one 12 year minor girl. When
there is nothing to show on record of their being falsely implicate the accused
of raping one 12 years old girl, the mere fact that PW-1, PW-2 and PW-6
being relative of the victim their evidence cannot be taken into account is not
acceptable one and therefore submission of learned defence counsel get no
force.

36. From the medical report the hymen of the victim found torn. Recent
Sign of rape not found as she was medically examined after several days of
incident. Even if doctor did not find recent sign of sexual assault on victim,
the evidence of victim cannot be thrown out when her piece of testimonies
derives confidence and unassailable piece of evidence and credit worthy and

truthful honest piece of evidence.
20|Page

37. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Himachal Pradesh vs Sanjay
Kumar @ Sunny (2017) 2 SCC 51 held that “ By now it is well settled that the
testimony of a victim in cases of sexual offences is vital and unless there are
compelling reasons which necessitate looking for corroboration of a
statement, the courts should find no difficulty to act on the testimony of the
victim of a sexual assault alone to convict the accused. No doubt, her
testimony has to inspire confidence. Seeking corroboration to a statement
before relying upon the same as a rule, in such cases, would literally amount
to adding insult to injury. The deposition of the prosecutrix- has, thus, to be
taken as a whole. Needless to reiterate that the victim of rape is not an
accomplice and her evidence can be acted upon without corroboration. She
stands at a higher pedestal than an injured witness does. If the court finds it
is difficult to accept her version, it may seek corroboration from some
evidence which lends assurance to her version. To insist on corroboration,
except in the rarest of rare cases, is to equate one who is a victim of the lust
of another with an accomplice to a crime and thereby insult womanhood. It
would be adding insult to injury to tell as woman that her claim of rape will
not be believed unless it is corroborated in material particulars, as in the case
of an accomplice to a crime. Why should the evidence of the girl or the
woman who complains of rape or sexual molestation be viewed with the aid
of spectacles fitted with lenses tinged with doubt, disbelief or suspicion? The
plea about lack of corroboration has no substance.”

38. The Hon’ble Apex Court in State of HP Vs. Asha Ram (2005) 13 SCC
766 held that “ It is now well settled principle of law that conviction can be
founded on the testimony of the prosecutrix alone unless there are
compelling reasons for seeking corroboration. The evidence of a prosecutrix is
more reliable than that of an injured witness. The testimony of the victim of
sexual assault is vital unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate
looking for corroboration of her statement, the courts should find no difficulty
in acting on the testimony of a victim of sexual assault alone to convict an
accused where her testimony inspires confidence and is found to be reliable.
It is also well settled principle of law that corroboration as a condition for
judicial reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix is not a requirement of
law but a guidance of prudence under given circumstances. Minor
contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of the
prosecutrix should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable

prosecution case.”
21|Page

39. Rape is a crime not only against victim but also against entire society.
It is a crime against the basic human right. Rape killed the soul of the girl/
woman and rape victim suffered social and mental stigma every second in her
rest of life.

40. Evidence on record clearly pointed that accused Mohasen committed
penetrative sexual assault (rape) on victim finding her alone under threat and
her evidence is un-impeached and her evidence alone is sufficient to book
accused guilty of commission of the prosecution charge u/s 4 of the POCSO
Act against accused. More so in the case in hand evidence of victim is
corroborated by the evidence of other PWs and there is no rebuttal of the
prosecution evidence. Section 29 of the POCSO Act draws presumption that if
sexual assault is alleged by a minor unless it is rebutted by the accused it is
presumed that accused had committed sexual assault on the minor as
alleged. In the case in hand victim in a cogent manner in specific words
stated that accused committed rape on her forcefully and rape amounted to
penetrative sexual assault within the meaning of section 3 of the POCSO Act
and same is punishable under section 4 of the POCSO Act and I do not find
any space/room to disbelief the evidence of victim of the case and her piece
of evidence is accepted beyond all reasonable doubt against the accused.
Accordingly I come to my considerate judicious finding that prosecution fairly
able to establish the charge of section 4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused Mohasen beyond all reasonable doubt and I hold him guilty u/s 4 of
the POCSO Act and accordingly accused Mohasen Ali is convicted u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act. Bail of accused Mohasen Ali stands cancelled.

41. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and nature of the
offence committed by the convicted accused Mohasen Ali, he is not entitled
the benefit of Probation of Offender Act or section 360 I.P.C. Accordingly,

convicted accused is heard on the point of sentence.
HEARING ON SENTENCE

42. I have heard accused and his counsel and prosecution side on the
point of sentence. Accused pleaded mercy and his sentence is written in a
separate sheet enclosed with the case record.

43. Ld. Accused counsel prayed for leniency considering the fact that
accused is poor person and only earning member of the family. Ld. Addl. P.P

submits that accused be sentenced in accordance with law.
22|Page

44. Considering the tender age of the victim girl and nature of the offence
and facts and circumstances under which accused have committed the
offence of rape on victim girl, spoiling of her life, loss of chastity and
womanhood, mental agony suffered by the victim in view of the rape and her
future agony because of the rape committed on her, her status and future life
in the society because of the rape, and increasing number of sexual assault
on child, I am of the opinion that accused does not deserve any leniency and
he is to be dealt with exemplary punishment.

45. Accordingly, convicted accused Mohasen Ali is sentenced to undergo
rigorous imprisonment for life and to pay fine of Rs. 25,000/- i/d another
1 year RI u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.

ORDER
46. Accused Mohasen Ali is found guilty u/s 4 of the POCSO Act and he is

convicted u/s 4 of the POCSO Act and he is sentenced to undergo rigorous

 

imprisonment for life and to pay fine of Rs. 25,000/- i/d another 1 year RI u/s
4 of the POCSO Act. Period under detention is set off u/s 428 Cr.P.C. Let
furnish free copy of Judgment to convicted accused Mohasen Ali. Fine, if paid,
be pay it to the victim.The surety of accused Mohasen Ali stands discharged.
47. The convicted accused is told that he has right to appeal against the
judgment and order of this court before Hon’ble High court through the jail
authority or independently of his own. Convicted accused is further informed
that he is entitled free legal aid to prefer appeal before the Hon'ble High
court.

48. Right to life and protection is a fundamental right and none can
Snatch it and state duty is to protect life of person and his property.
Increasing number of crime in the society means failure on the part of state
to protect the life and property of the citizen of the State and State has to
compensate the same to the victim of the case. From the evidence on record
it is appeared that PW-3 who is a minor is a victim of rape sexual assault
case and due to rape on her she immensely suffered mental agony which is
evident from her statement that because of rape with threatening she had to
leave her native village and because of the rape her esteem is effected and
her agony is not stopped and she is suffering all the time. Rape is murder of
the inner soul of the girl/woman and its pain is unaccountable and cannot be
seen by other. In murder case person is killed but in respect of rape/sexual
on assault victim, the very soul of the victim killed, she lost her chastity which

is the most valuable assets of the girl/woman, her dignity, esteem in the
23|Page

society lowered and she is made to suffer and she is looked in other ways for
no fault of her and therefore, she being victim of rape case needs
rehabilitation for her future security and therefore, I find victim of this case
PW-3 entitled compensation u/s 357 A Cr.P.C under Victim Compensation
Scheme and secretary DLSA, Dhubri will determine the quantum of the
compensation payable to the PW-3 victim of this case.

49. Send copy of judgment and order to Ld. Secretary DLSA, Dhubri for
determination of the quantum of compensation under the victim
compensation scheme under section 357 (A) Cr.P.C.

50. Send copy of judgment to learned District Magistrate Dhubri u/s 365
Cr.P.C.

51. Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 04" day of October,
2018 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Dictated and Corrected by me,
(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Typed by,
Swmkhwr Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.
24|Page

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

PW-1 Baser Ali,

PW-2 Pastola Khatun,

PW-3 Prosecutrix, (victim)

PW-4 Mofijuddin Mollah,

PW-5 Omela Khatun,

PW-6 Hunufa Bibi,

PW-7 Dr. Muskura Ahmed (M.O) and
PW-8 SI Muktajur Rahman ( I.O).

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Ejahar,
Ext-2 Statement of victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-3 Medical report,
Ext-4 Sketch Map and
Ext-5 Charge sheet

DEFENCE WITNESS _ :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT EXHIBITS ™ NIL
COURT WITNESS " NIL

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
