IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, DARRANG, MANGADLAI

Present: Sri G. Baruah
Special Judge,
Darrang, Mangaldai

Reference : Sp] (POCSO) Case No.04/15
Complainant : State of Assam

Vs
Accused : Mania Ali

Charge: U/S-354(A) IPC, R/W Sec.8 of POCSO Act.

Date of Charge : 19.09.2015
Dates of deposition : 14.10.2015

Date of statement U/S- 313 CrP.C. : 14.10.2015

Date of hearing : 14.10.2015

Date of Judgment : 14.10.2015

For the State : Sri G.R. Baruah, Public Prosecutor.
For the Accused : Md. N. Hoque, Advocate, Mangaldai.

JUDGMENT
PROSECUTION CASE

. The prosecution case as appears during trial in short is that on
29.03.2015 one Miss Asifa Begum, aged 15 years, daughter of Md. Matleb
Ali lodged an FIR before the O/C, Sipajhar P.S. inter-alia alleging that the
FIR named accused person Md. Mania Ali used to visit their house
frequently in order to marry her elder sister and also used to financially
help her parents. She stated that on 28.03.2015 at around 9.30 PM the

accused person has hugged her from back side and tried to give her
Rs.2,000.00. She stated that she raised hue and cry and the neighbouring
people came and thereafter the accused went away and as such prayed

to take necessary action.

On receipt of the FIR the O/D, Sipajhar P.S. registered Sipajhar P.S. Case
No.201/15, U/S-448/354(A) IPC, R/W Sec.6 of POCSO Act and entrusted
ASI Sarat Ch. Tumung to complete the investigation. During the course of
investigation the I/O has recorded the 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim
girl as well as recorded the statement of other witnesses and thereafter
finding sufficient materials against the accused Md. Mania Ali submitted
the charge sheet U/S-447/354(A) IPC, R/W Sec. 6 of POCSO Act. Upon
submission of the charge sheet summon was issued to the accused

person and on apperance he was allowed to go on bail.

. After completion of appearance of the accused person and after perusal
of record this court found prima-facie materials to frame charge against
the accused person U/S-354(A) IPC and U/S-8 of POCSO Act and on
being read over and explained the said charges the accused pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.

. The prosecution in order to bring home the charge against the accused

person has examined only three PWs including the victim and her father
and one independent witness. The 313 Cr.P.C. statement of the accused

person was recorded. His plea was of complete denial.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether on 28™March, 2015 at around 9.30 PM the
accused person used criminal force against the victim
girl aged about 15 years in order to outrage her
modesty?

(ii) Whether on the same date, time and place the accused
committed sexual assault upon the victim girl, and
thereby committed an offence punishable U/S-354(A)
IPC, R/W Sec.8 of POCSO Act?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF
5. Prosecution has examined 3 PWs in connection with this case. PW1 is the
victim girl. She has deposed in her evidence before this court on oath that
she knows the accused person and that she lodged the FIR about 3
months ago and identified the same as Ext.1. She stated that her father
had monetary transaction with the accused Mania Ali and on the day of
occurrence the accused came to her residence in the evening and asked
for her father. She stated that she getting feared has raised alarm.
However, her father rebuked her for raising alarm and as such lodged the
FIR against the accused person. She also stated that she lodged the FIR
falsely against the accused. She further stated that her statement was
recorded before the magistrate u/S-164 Cr.P.C. In cross-examination she
deposed that the incident occurred after her final examination of HSLC
but before result was declared. In cross she also stated that the accused
used to visit their house frequently and that no other incident took place
on that day except that the accused asked her for her father.

6. PW2 is Mustt. Tahjahan Begum who is an independent witness and she
denied about the incident.

7. PW3 is Md. Matleb Ali, father of the victim girl. He deposed on oath
before this court that the accused used to visit his home frequently and
on the day of occurrence in the evening also he visited his home and tried
to examine whether the two numbers of Rs.1,000.00 notes were genuine
or not in the light of the lamp and at that time his daughter seeing the
accused person raised alarm. He stated that he has rebuked his daughter
of raising alarm and no other incident had happened. In cross-
examination he stated that his daughter lodged the FIR without taking his
permission.

8. While scrutinising the evidence of PW1, PW2 and PW3 it is found that
PW1, the victim girl has appeared in HSLC final examination at the time of
incident and at the time of deposing she was studying in HS First Year.
From it, it appears that she is college going student, well educated. In her
evidence she herself has not supported her own case and deposed that
she lodged the FIR falsely as her father rebuked her for raising alarm
after the accused person asked for her father. I have also gone through
the 164 CrP.C. statement of the victim girl. In her 164 Cr.P.C. statement

also she deposed that on the night of occurrence the accused person
10.

11.

touched her hand for which she raised alarm. However, during her cross-
examination she categorically stated that no incident took place except
that the accused asked for her father. In his evidence PW3, father of the
victim girl also corroborated the evidence of PW1 that he rebuked her for
raising alarm after seeing the accused person. From the above it appears
that none of the witnesses have stated anything to attract any of the
ingredients of Section 354(A) IPC or Section 8 of POCSO Act. In view of
the above I have no hesitation to hold that the prosecution has failed to
bring home the charges against the accused person.
ORDER
Accordingly the accused persons Md. Mania Ali is acquitted from all the

charges. He is set at liberty forthwith.

However, his bail bond shall remain in force for next six months U/S-437
(A) Cr.P.C.

The case is disposed of on contest.

Given under by hand and seal of this Court on this the 14" day of
October, 2015.

( G. Baruah)
Special Judge,
Darrang, Mangaldai
APPENDIX:

Prosecution witnesses:

PW1: Miss Asifa Begum
PW2: Mustt. Tahjahan Begum
PW3: Md. Matleb Ali

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:
Ext.1: FIR
Ext.2: 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Given under my hand and seal of this court on this 14” day of

October, 2015 at Mangaldai Court.

Dictated and corrected by me

and each page bears my signature.

(G. Baruah)
Special Judge,
Darrang, Mangaldai

(G. Baruah)
Special Judge,
Darrang, Mangaldai

Transcribed and typed by

(P.K. Kalita)
Stenographer
