Page | of 14

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR AT SILCHAR.

Present :- Sri K. Choudhury,
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

Spl. POCSO Case No : 14/2016.
U/S..4 of POCSO Act.

SEITE) GE PASSE eee cee sees BSG OF ES BU On AS Be Gr are ERY eT mY BG GW BTS Complainant.
-\/s-
Abhijit Dutta.

S/O Late Monindra Dutta.

Tarapur. Silchar. i:i:iiii: Accused person.

Charge framed on: - 09.08.2016.

Date of recording evidence: - 01-10-16, 06-10-16, 21-10-16, 23-11-
16,09-12-16.

Statement of the accused person recorded on:- 17-12-16.

Argument heard on - 05-01-17.

Judgment delivered on :- 21-02-2017.
ADVOCATE APPEARED

For the prosecution :- Mr. S. Dutta. P. P.

For the defence :- Mr. A. Roy. Learned advocate.

JUDGMENT.

1. Prosecution case as reflected in the FIR in brief is that about
one and half prior to lodging of the FIR the accused finding the daughter

of the complainant aged about nine years (here in below mentioned as
Page 2 of 14

victim) alone in the house called her to his house and with evil intention
and forcibly did bed things with her. The victim however did not disclose
the same instantly to the complainant. Subsequently about one month
prior to filing of the FIR it was noticed that the victim felt ill thereafter on
06-10-15. The victim was taken to Child Specialist for treatment. The
victim then disclosed the evil act of the accused to the doctor from
whom the complainant came to know that the victim was raped by the
accused. It could further be known that the victim since after the alleged
incident had been suffering from stomach ache and many other
sicknesses. Subsequently after taking of medicines the victim was again
examined by doctor on 27-10-15. As per the doctor the incident had
allegedly be committed on 05-10-15. After that having fully known about
the alleged incident from the mouth of the victim the complainant
informed her husband who then came and asked to file ejahar.
Accordingly the ejahar was lodged. The same was received vide Tarapur
GDE No. 646 dated 31-10-15 and forwarded to O/C Silchar B.S. where it
was registered as Silchar P.S. case No. 2940/15 U/s 6 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act 2012.

2. During investigation, the victim was produced before doctor
who opined the age of the victim is above nine years and below 11
years. As per the doctor report, there was old tear at 1’0 clock and 5’0
clock position. She also gave statement before the Magistrate U/S 164 of
Cr.P.C. She inter alia disclosed before the Magistrate that about one and
half months back at about 3.00 p.m. while she was proceeding towards
her home from the veranda the accused suddenly came and caught hold
her mouth and shut her mouth with clothes and took her to terrace.
After that he put of her clothes touched her breast, played with her

breast, touched her vagina and spitted in her vagina. She felt pain on her
Page 3 of 14

back. The accused slept over her, something white substance came out
from her vagina, the accused shown her a knife and threatened her to
the effect that he would kill her and her family members in case she
disclosed the same. Accused was arrested. On completion of
investigation I.O. submitted charge sheet against the accused U/S 6 of
POCSO Act 2012.

3.Learned J.M. Ist class, Silchar procured the attendance of the accused
on the strength of W/A issued on the prayer of I.O. and forwarded the
accused to this Court. On production of the accused copies of
necessary police papers were furnished to him. This Court after hearing
both sides framed formal charge against the accused U/S Sec.4 of
Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act 2012 (POCSO Act).
The charge was read over and explained to the accused to which he

pleaded not guilty. Hence, trial began.

4. To prove the case, prosecution examined as many as seven
witnesses (P.Ws) including the victim, two Doctors and wife of the
accused. Son of the accused has been examined as C.W. Defence plea is
that the land lady and the accused used to create pressure upon the
complainant for vacating the house, but the complainant was reluctant to
vacate the same and for that the complainant in connivance with her
husband lodged false FIR against the accused and the victim being
tutored falsely gave statement before the police, Magistrate and also
before the Court. The accused in his statement recorded U/S 313 of

Cr.P.C. pleaded as innocent.

5. Now, the moot question for determination is whether, under
the facts and circumstances of the case, the accused committed or

penetrative sexual assault on the victim.
Page 4 of 14

6. To decide the above appoint I have heard both sides at
length and perused the entire evidence on the record. My findings and

decisions with reasons thereof are given below.

7. It is evident that since prior to the date of alleged incident
the complainant along with her victim daughter had been residing as a
tenant in the homestead of the house under the mother-in-law of the
accused. It is further evident that wife and two sons of the accused also
resided in the same homestead along with the accused and his mother-
in-law, and it is evident that that after few days of filing of the ejahar the

complainant left the said rented house. These points are not all disputed.

8. P.W.1 deposed that her husband for the previous one year
had been working at Monipur in Assam Rifles. When her victim daughter
was aged about six months she started to reside in the in-laws of the
accused as tenant. About one year back she noticed some illness on the
person of the victim. She then took the victim to doctor Bidyut Nath.
After examination, the doctor reported to her that the victim was once
raped by someone. After that the victim disclosed everything to the
doctor in her (P.W.1) presence. The victim disclosed that about 15-20
days prior to her examination while she was playing in the veranda, the
accused took her to the roof of the building and embraced her, and did
sexual inter course with her. P.W.1 further deposed that the victim also
disclosed that the accused threatened her (victim) asking not to disclose
anything and in case of disclosure he would kill her family members and
for that she did not disclose anything prior to that. After such disclosure
they returned to their rented house to the wife of the accused. On being
so reported the wife of the accused highly reacted and started to abuse
the victim. Wife of the accused took the victim inside the room of the

accused and attempted to assault by holding her (victim) body. P.W.1
Page 5 of 14

further deposed that seeing the embarrassing situation she returned with
the victim and reported the matter to her husband who told that he
would return after one month and would do the needful. After one
month her (P.W.1) husband came and they took the victim to the doctor
for checking. After that she lodged the FIR against the accused. Through
the police the victim was medically examined at SMCH Silchar and was
also produced before the Magistrate for recording statement. After filing
of the FIR she left the rented house. She further deposed that the victim
was reading in Class-IV in K.V. Silchar. After the alleged incident the
victim suffered both mentally and physically and for many days the
victim did not attend school. The victim was forcibly made to attempt
school. However, the victim remained irregular in attending school for
about 9-10 months. The victim was then taken to Guwahati for
counselling. After that since one month prior to the recording of evidence
the victim had been attending school regularly. At the material time the

victim was aged about eight years.

9. P.W.2 is the victim. She being found below 12 years age no
oath was administered. Some questions were put to her to testify her
capacity as witness. She being found capable to adduce evidence
examined in camera. She deposed that the accused used to reside as a
Gharjamai_ in his in-laws house, where previously they (complainant &
the victim) also used to reside as tenant. The accused had two sons,
elder was reading in Class IX and younger one is reading in Class-V. At
the material time on many occasions at different times, such as
12.00p.m., 5.00 p.m. the accused used to take her to the roof of the
house pressing her mouth and had sexual inter course with her
penetrating in her private parts. The accused used to press her body and

used to touch her different parts. The accused threatened her with dire
Page 6 of 14

consequences in case of disclosure to her parents stating that the
accused would kill her and her parents with a knife and for that she did
not disclose the matter to her parents. She further deposed that when
She felt ill, her mother took her to the doctor namely, Bidyut Nath and
she disclosed the entire matter to the Doctor and her mother. According
to her, about after one month of the last incident she was medically
examined at SMCH by a lady doctor and she also gave statement to the
Magistrate. Ext-2(1) is her signature in the medical report. After the
incident she could not attend school for one month and was reluctant to
attend the school. Her mood was lost and for that she was taken to

Guwahati for counseling and after that she started to attend school.

10. This Court observed that this witness was very much shy to
disclose everything and during recording of her evidence she used to
loiter here and there inside the room like a very small girl and very fickle
in mind and very unrest and curasive and cute. Ext-3 is her statement

recorded by Magistrate.

11. PW. 5 — Dr. Orina Raha is the doctor of S.M.C.H. According
to her on 30-10-15 while she was working as GDMO in the Deptt. of
Forensic science examined the victim girl in connection with the relevant
police case. AS per the victim girl in around mid-September 2015 the
accused took her to the terrace in day light and sucked her breast and
had sexual inter course with her, keeping a knife aside, telling her that
she tell the truth to anybody her family would be injured. This incident
took place on five days. She revealed the story after going to
pediatrician. Her mother also gave same history. One of further finding of
the doctor is that there was an old hymnal tear at one O clock and five o

clock position. The doctor opined the age of the victim was above nine
Page 7 of 14

years and below 11 years. According to her this report is based on

radiological and physical examination.

12. P.W.6 is Doctor Bidyut Nath. According to his evidence on
06-10-15 he examined the victim aged about 8 years being accompanied
by her mother. The patient complains about white discharge from her
vagina. He prescribed medicine and advised her for re-examination. On
her second visit on 27-10-15 he found the patient suffering from Anemia
and warm infection. He further deposed that on the date of Ist
examination he suspected that the victim have sexual transmitted
decease and accordingly he prescribed medicine. On the second visit he
found the victim had abdominal pain and anemia. His further evidence is
that on the ist visit he asked the mother of the victim to know as to
whether there had been any sexual assault and also asked the mother to

get examined the child by Gynecologist.

14. P.W.-7 is the I.O. According to his evidence during
investigation he sent the victim to SMCH got recorded the statement of
the victim U/S 164 CrP.C., visited the P.O. recorded statement of
witnesses at the P.O. which is the house building of Lila Rani Das where
she used to reside along with her daughter and two grandsons on the
first floor and sometimes the accused also resided. On the ground floor
two tenants were there. Own house of the accused is situated at
Saratpally, Silchar. 1.0. further deposed that he visited the house on 02-
11-15, 05-11-15, 25-11-15, 20-12-15 for apprehension of the accused
but the accused was found absconding. He also visited the P.O. for
apprehension of the accused but the accused was found absent. In 27-
06-16 he got information that the accused just arrived at his home and

take in bath. The I.0. immediately went there and apprehended the
Page 8 of 14

accused from his house at Saratpally.

In the cross-examination he stated that the P.W.1 did not
exactly state that the Doctor Bidyut Nath disclosed to them that the
victim once sexually assaulted. He further stated that no witness could
disclose the exact date of incident and he did not record the statement
of the victim U/S 161 of CrP.c. He asserted about his search of the

accused in the house of P.O.

15. During hearing learned P.P. submitted that there is no
material contradiction or omission and evidence of the victim is fully
corroborated by the evidence of two doctors and her mother and there is
no reason to disbelieve their testimony especially of the victim. Further it
is submitted that the subsequent conduct of the accused as come out in
the evidence of both the I.O. and also the wife of the accused regarding
absence of the accused after the alleged incident for a long period in his
ordinary place of residence is most relevant U/S 8 of the Evidence Act
and the same can be in the absence of proper explanation adversely
inferred being a strong circumstances indicating his involvement with the
alleged offence. Learned defence counsel strongly contended that the
exact date of the alleged incident is not mentioned in the FIR give rise
doubt about the genuineness of the prosecution allegation mainly on the
ground that the defence could establish some probability of such false
implication being a tenancy dispute between the parties. Further it is
submitted that such probability also gets support from the fact that in
the cross-examination the P.W.2 the victim clearly stated that her mother
promised her to purchase a Mobile phone for her to play games and for
listening music.
The learned defence counsel cited following decisions:
1. Criminal Appeal 2238/10 passed by Hon’ble High Court.
Page 9 of 14

2. Criminal Appeal No. 2073 of 2014. Appellant: Dinesh Kr.
Maurya —Vs- State of U.P.
Criminal No. 425 of 2015 @ SLP (Crl) No. 9896 of 2011.
4, Delhi High Court. State of NCT of Delhi -Vs- Rashid 3
Feb/15.
16. Perused the same. Facts and circumstances of all the
above cited cases are different with that of the present case in hand.
However, I considered the observation made therein with regard to the

appreciation of evidence.

17.It is seen that in the cross-examination that the victim stated that she
had got a personal Mobile set having SIM No. 9954006207. On this point
there is no further cross-examination. The victim asserted that whatever
she narrated before the Magistrate, Doctor and the Court is correct. She
denied that she being tutored adduced false and fabricated evidence.
She gave the topography of the PO. On her examination before
recording her evidence she was found intelligent enough to depose. Her
evidence could not be shaken out in the cross-examination made in
detail. P.W.3, the Judicial Magistrate Ist Class deposed that she recorded
the statement of the victim. It is evident that the statement recorded by
the Magistrate corroborates the evidence of the P.W.2. The P.W.3 further
stated that the victim was found capable of giving rational answer and

was intelligent.

18.P.W. 5 is the wife of the accused. She deposed that 4-5 days after the
allegation of rape the accused left their house i.e. the P.O. where the
accused used to reside as Gar-jamai. According to her the allegation of
rape was brought 4-5 days after the previous Kali-puja. The accused did

not return to her parent’s house after the allegation of rape. She further
Page 10 of 14

deposed that she had no contact with the accused for about 7-8 months.
The accused even did not come to meet her and their two minor sons
and also to see her ailing mother who was having breast cancer. The
above piece of evidence totally confirms the evidence of I.0. with regard
to conduct of the accused as absconder. She further confirms in the
cross-examination about the visit of the I.O. in their house. She further
stated that for the previous 4-5 years their relation with the complainant
was normal and they had good relation and _ since about 2-3 months
prior to the previous Kali Puja i.e. since September 2015 the victim
started creating troubles. Sometimes the victim pelted lock and
sometimes grooms towards her mother. She further stated that when
she interfered into the matter mother of the victim re-acted. She further
stated that she asked the mother of the victim for vacating the house.
Father of the victim was reluctant to pay due house rent. It is evident
that the land lady never issued any rent receipt to the complainant side
and after the alleged inside the complainant side vacated the house and
evidence does not disclose continuation of the tenancy dispute if any for
plea of non payment of rent. The evidence of the wife of the accused is
found to be not cogent enough to believe that there might have been
some tenancy dispute and for that the complainant involving chastity of
her own minor daughter could have filed a false FIR. Evidence of P.W.4
(lady doctor) clearly shows that hymen of the victim was found torn. This
piece of evidence remain unrebutted in the cross-examination. That
apart disclosure of the victim before the Doctor i.e. P.W.4 with regard to
the sexual act of the accused is also not categorically denied in the
cross-examination. Therefor it can also be relied upon that the victim
reported to the lady doctor about the sexual activities of the victim as
eluded earlierThe behavioural change of the victim in the month of

September has come out in the evidence of P.W.5 is also found in the
Page 11 of 14

evidence of P.W.1 and P.W.2. Now question comes as to why a normal
child would behave abnormally unless there is something happened. This
abnormal behaviour as found in the evidence of wife of the accused also

fortifies the veracity of the prosecution witnesses.

19. Under such circumstances non recording of statement of the
victim by the I.O. under the facts and circumstances of this case cannot
be considered as fatal. Furthermore some discrepancies as come out in
the cross-examination of P.W.2 with regard to identification of some of
her own signatures also can be ignored. No reason is found to disbelieve
the testimony of the victim corroborated by other cogent evidence of

doctors and other P.Ws.

20. In view of the above discussion of evidence, contention and
consideration of evidence on its entirety it is held that prosecution has
been able to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubt U/s 4 of POCSO

Act. Therefore, the accused is held guilty and convicted accordingly.

21. Heard the accused on the point of sentence. He has stated
that he is having two minor sons, wife and ailing mother-in-law whom he
is to maintain and thus prayed for leniency. Having considered the above
and the age of the accused and also intention of the legislature and all
other aspects I convict and sentenced the accused U/S 4 of POCSO Act
2012 to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment (R.I.) for seven years with fine
of Rs. 5000/- and in default shall further undergo R.I. for a period of two

month.

22. As regard victim compensation, having considered the age
of the victim, her abnormal behaviour for months together, her leaving of

school for months together, counseling at Guwahati, for the trauma,
Page 12 of 14

mental pain, agony and physical sufferings and all other aspects an
amount of Rs. 1,00,000/- is highly recommended to be paid to the
victim, the PW.2 being the victim of the crime as an_ interim
compensation. Therefore, the Secretary DLSA shall take necessary steps
for payment of the interim compensation and also take further necessary
step for payment of any further compensation on the prayer of the victim
or her parents. Copy of the Judgment be forwarded to the Secretary
DLSA along with the copy of deposition of P.W.1 and P.W.2.

23. Copy of the Judgment be furnished to the accused
free of cost as per provision of Sec. 363 Cr.P.C. and to be forwarded to

the District Magistrate as per provision of Sec. 365 Cr.P.C.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court

under my seal and signature on this 21° day of February, 2017.

Dictated & corrected be my

(Shri K. Choudhury)
Special Judge. Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
Page 13 of 14

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR.
Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2016.
APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — Smti Dipali Das
PW. 2 — Smti. Riya Das.
PW. 3 — Smti Sarbani Bhattacharjee.
PW. 4— Dr. Orina Raha.
PW. 5 — Mrs. Soma Dutta.
PW. 6 — Dr. Bidyut Nath.
PW. 7 — Sri Nirupom Nath (1.0.)

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL.

(C) COURT WITNESSES: -
C.W.-1 Sri Anik Dutta.

(D) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — FLR.
Ext. 1 (1) — Signature of P.W.1.
Ext. 2 — Medical report..

Ext-2(1) Signature of P.W.2.

Ext-2(2) to 2(4)- Signature of P.W.4
Ext-2(5) - Signature of Dr. Gunojit Das.
Ext.-3 : Statement of P.W.2.

Ext-3(2) & 3(4) - Signature of the victim.
Ext-3(6) - Signature of P.W.3
Page 14 of 14

Ext. 4 — Police requisition.
Ext. 4(1)— — Signature of PW-4.
Ext-4(2) | - Signature of P.W.7.
Ext. 5 — Sketch map.

Ext. 5 (1) — Signature of PW-7.
Ext-5(A) - Search slip.
Ext-5(A-1) — Signature of P.W.-7

Ext-6 - Another Search slip.

Ext-6(1) — - Signature of P.W.7.

Ext-7 - Serch slip.

Ext-7(1) - Signature of P.W.7

Ext-8 - Search slip.

Ext-5-A to Ext-8 exhibited under objection.

Ext-9 - prayer for recording of statement of the victim.
Ext-9(1) — - Signature of P.W.7.

Ext-10 -Charge sheet.

Ext-10(1) - Signature of P.W.7
(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ Nil.

(Shri K. Choudhuy),
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
