Pagel

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR

SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 23 of 2016
Under section 4 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Jamuguri PS Case No. 98 of 2016 )

State of Assam

—Vs—
Sri Bogai Das and
Sri Srimanta Das we Accused Persosn

Present: SmtiI. Barman, AJS
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State : Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah, Spl.P.P.
For the accused : \Md. I. Ansari, Advocate
Date of Argument : 07-09-2019
Date of Judgment : 21-09-2019.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case against the accused person as projected in

the \FIR (Ext. 2), in brief, is that Srimanta Das had love affairs with the
informant’s 15 years old victim daughter and due to having physical relation,
she carried pregnancy. When it comes to the knowledge of accused
Srimanta Das that the victim would be examined by doctor to confirm her
pregnancy, on 28-06-2016, at around 6 p.m. he took the victim to his house
and keeping her in the room of his father Bogai Das, he fled away. Then
taking advantage of absence of Srimanta Das, accused Bogai Das by

gagging mouth of the victim, rapped her inspite of being resisted by her and

 
Page 2

asked her to get marry with him. It is further alleged that the accused Bogai

Das also threatened the victim to kill if she would not marry him.

2. Upon receipt of the ejahar from the informant (PW 1), the O/C
registered the case being Jamuguri P.S. Case No. 98/16 u/s 366 (A)/376(2)
(i) IPC, read with section 4 of POCSO Act and launched investigation. The
Investigating Officer (PW 9) recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent
the victim for medical examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. arrested the accused persons Srimanta Das and Bogai Das, and on
completion of investigation, having found materials, PW 8 SI Keshab Ranjan
Choudhury submitted the charge-sheet against the accused Srimanta Das
and Bogai Das u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

3. On being appeared the accused persons before this Court, my
learned predecessor, after hearing both parties, framed charge u/s 4 of
POCSO Act against the accused Srimanta Das and Bogai Das and particulars
of the charge on being read over and.explained to the accused persons, they

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. To substantiate ‘the case, prosecution examined as many as nine
witnesses. In statement recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C, the accused denied all the
allegations leveled.against them and taking the plea of total denial, accused
Srimanta Das.stated that the victim’s mother took the victim to his house but
as his father did not allow them to enter into their house, a quarrel took
place.and.thereafter falsely implicated them with a concocted story.

5. I have heard the argument of learned counsel of both sides and

also. have gone through the evidence on record.
6. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) Whether the accused Srimanta Das on several occasions prior to
28-06-2016 and accused Bogai Das on 28-06-2016, at Panpur,
Chengelimara, under Jamuguri Police Station committed penetrative
sexual assault on the child victim Miss "X” and thereby committed an
offence punishable under section 4 of POCSO Act.
Page 3

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

7. In order to appreciate the argument advanced on behalf of both

the sides, it is considered next to outline a sketch of the evidence on record.

8. PW1, the mother of the victim, stated that on the day at around
6 p.m. when her victim daughter, aged about 15 years was near the gate,
accused Srimanta Das took her daughter by holding her hands to his house.
Knowing from Nabajyoti Das and Radhika Das that accused ‘Srimanta Das
took her daughter to his house, they went to the house of Srimanta Das but
Gopal Das, elder brother of Srimanta Das did not allow them to enter into
the house. She informed the matter to the Village head man Prabhat Das
(PW 3) and called him to the house of Bogai\Das.to.rescue her daughter.
They hearing commotion inside the house, suspected that Bogai Das might
be inside the house. Then he along with Gaonburah and one Jewel Das went
to the house of Bogai Das and*kKnocked» at the door of Bogai Das and
accordingly on opening the door).they rescued the victim from the clutches
of Bogai Das. They noticed Some marks on the face of the victim. She
further stated that the willage headman Prabhat Das asking her to put
Signature on a paper,.forced her not to file any case. Thereafter, they
brought back»sthe. victim home and on being asked the victim reported her
that accused Bogai Das committed her rape. As it was night, hence, on the
next day*she filed the FIR, Ext. 2. According to her, her daughter had love
with accused Simanta Das and through him she carried pregnancy of three

months at the time of incident.

During cross she asserted that at the time of incident, the victim
was pregnant of three months from the side of Srimanta Das but they did
not file any case for pregnancy of her daughter and after the day of incident

only, she came to know about the pregnancy of her daughter.

9. PW 2 is the victim. She testified that she used to go to the house of
Srimanta Das three days in a week for tuition. On the day of incident also at

around 6 p.m., she went to the house of Srimanta Das for tuition. She

 
Page 4

admitted that she had love affairs with the accused Srimanta Das and for
having physical relation with her consent, she carried pregnancy through
him. She further stated that after carrying pregnancy, one day when
Srimanta Das came to her house, she reported him about her pregnancy.
Then his mother gave her six pills for causing miscarriage, out of which she
consumed four pills and finding the remaining two pills under her bed, her
mother confirmed that those tablets are used for causing abortion. When
she informed Srimanta Das that her mother came to know about her
pregnancy, on the very day, at around 6 p.m. Srimanta Das took*her to his
house and keeping her in his house, he went away. At that time,the.parents
of Srimanta were present at home. Thereafter, accused,»Bogai Das, father of
accused Srimanta Das taking her to his room, raped ‘her)forcefully. She
stated that when her family members came to“the. house of Bogai Das in
search of her, he denied her presence in his\house, At that time, accused
Bogai was gagging her mouth so that shexcould not raise alarm and asked
her to say to the villagers or Gaonburah, if they come, that she got married
with Bogai Das. She further stated.that‘at night when her family members
along with Gaonburah came to the house of Bogai Das to take her, then
accused Bogai Das asked“toxgive a writing that no case would be filed.
Finding no other alternative, her mother gave a writing to the Goanburah.
According to her, after consuming pill, miscarriage was caused to her. At
that time she. was“reading in class IX and 15 years old. She proved her
statement.u/S.164 Cr.P.C. as Ext. 3. She denied the suggestion that she did
not..carry- pregnancy. According to her, after 2/3 days of consuming pill,
miscarriage was caused to her and she suffered from bleeding for two to
three months. She admitted that she did not produce any document
regarding abortion. She further stated that when Bogai Das committed her
rape she sustained injury on her private parts and had shown the same to

the doctor.

10. PW 3 Prabhat Chandra Das, the village headman, turned hostile.
He testified that on 28-06-2016, mother of the victim coming to his house
informed him that her daughter went on missing since 7 p.m. She also told

her that her daughter sometimes visited the house of Srimanta Das, S/O

 
Page 5

Bogai Das, so she suspected that victim might be in the house of Bogai Das.
Thereafter, he along with Shyam Das (PW 4) proceeded to the house of
Bogai Das and met the victim there along with Srimanta Das. They also

found Bagai Das in the court yard of his house.

During cross by defence he stated that the mother of the victim
wanted to give marriage her daughter with Srimanta Das. He stated that as
the accused Bogai Das restrained the victim from entering into his house
being accused Srimanta Das was a student, they handed over the girl to her
mother. According to him, Bogai Das did not allow the victim to, marry his
son Srimanta Das, hence the case was filed falsely. He further stated that on
being asked, the victim reported that at her own will,.she went to the house

of Bogai Das.

11. PW 4 Shyam Das, related brother of the accused Bogai Das, also
turned hostile. He accompanied the village.head.-man PW 3 to the house of
the accused after being informed by the,victim’s mother about missing of the
girl. He stated that on the day.of ‘incident, the victim went to the house of
Srimanta Das but his father Bogai Das driven her out from his house
regarding which a quarrel took place and on arrival of village head man, the

girl was handed over'to her.mother.

This. witness also in the same tune with PW 3 stated that
intending«to, give marriage of the victim with Srimanta Das, the mother of
the victim sent her to the house of Bogai Das but Bogai Das vehemently
opposed\being his son was a student and thereafter the village headman

handed over the girl to her mother.

12. PW 5 Jewel Das testified that victim’s mother informing him that
Srimanta Das had taken her daughter to his house, asked him to bring back
her daughter. Then he went to the house of the accused and found accused
Bogai Das sitting in the court yard but on being asked Bogai Das as to
whether his son had brought the victim, he denied. Then he advising the

victim’s mother to inform village headman, returned home. In the next day

 
Page 6

from the victim’s mother he heard that victim was recovered from the house

of the accused persons.

13. PW 6 Dr. Tutumoni Handique, the Medical Officer deposed that
on 30-06-2016 she examined the victim and found hymen absent but found
no injury mark on her body or private part and as per X-ray report victim
was above 18 years. There was no sign of recent sexual intercourse and
victim was pregnant of one and half month. She proved the report as Ext.3.
14. PW 7 Biswajyoti Hazarika, the Head Master of Panpur High
School, proved the School Admission Register of Panpur High School as Ext.
9 wherein the victim was reading in class VIII at the, time,of, incident.
According to him, as per admission register, the date_of birthvof the girl was
31-12-1999. He proved the attendance Register of class VIII of Section A as
Ext. 10 which disclosed her attendance till 26-11-2015. He also proved the
counterfoil of School certificate as Ext. 11.as perwhich her age was 16 years
5 months 28 days on 28-06-2016.

During cross he stated, thateon 01-01-2013 the victim got

admitted in class VI in Panpur High School but at the time of admission no
birth certificate was produced. He stated that the date of birth in Ext.11 was
entered as per school certificate submitted at the time of admission but he
had not produced. the said school certificate. He admitted that they issued
Ext. 11 as a Reading certificate.
15. PW'9, ASI Phanidhar Hazarika, the Investigating Officer visited
the place ‘of ‘occurrence, prepared the sketch map of the place of
occurrence, Ext. 13 and recorded the statement of the victim and the
informant at the police station. He also recorded the statement of other
witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got recorded her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and also arrested the accused Bogai Das and
Srimanta Das. He confirmed the statement of hostile witness PW 3 Prabhat
Das and PW 4 Shyam Das made before him u/s 161 Cr.P.C.

During cross he stated that no DNA test was conducted. He
confirmed that as per the medical report that age of the victim is above 18

years.

 
Page 7

PW 8 SI Keshab Ranjan Chowdhury, another Investigating
Officer submitted the charge sheet, Ext. 12, against the accused persons u/s
4 of POCSO Act.
16. In the case, regarding age of the victim girl, prosecution
examined PW 7 Biswajyoti Hazarika, the head master of Panpur High School.
He produced the Admission Register of the school proved as Ext.9 wherein
the date of birth of the victim is mentioned as 31-12-1999. According to him,
at the relevant time she was a student of class VIII, Section A. This witness
proved the Student Attendance Register as Ext. 10 in which her attendance
had shown till 26-11-2015. He proved the counter foil of Reading ‘certificate
of the victim as Ext.11, as per which the victim was 16years,;/5 months 28
days on 28-06-2016. During cross, he stated that on 01-01-2013 the victim
got admitted in their school in class VI but at thatstime no birth certificate
was produced and they mentioned her date of.birth in the counterfoil as per
school certificate submitted at the time of admission but the said school
certificate is not produced. He admitted that the basis of date of birth
mentioned in the LP school certificate only can say by LP School authority
and they issued Ext. 11 as a reading certificate. Though PW 7 during cross
stated that as per the school certificate submitted at the time of admission,
the date of birth of the victim is 31-12-1999 but the said certificate is not
produced in the courtsProsecution also failed to produce any document or
register wherein the victim was admitted first. On the other hand, the
medical, report, Ext. 3 reveals that the victim is above 18 years. Though in
oral.evidence, the victim and her mother claimed her age as 15 years at the
time of incident but it is not supported by Admission Register of the Panpur
High School wherein her date of birth was entered as 31-12-1999 and in
that case she was 16 years 6 months 27 days old on the day of incident i.e.
on 28-06-2019. So, the evidence of the victim and her mother that she was
15 years old is not acceptable. The victim’s mother PW 1 who is the best
person to say the age of her daughter remained silent regarding date of
birth of the child. Though the prosecution side by examining PW 7 proved
the reading certificate but it was not seized during investigation, it was

produced in court during trial. Furthermore, for non proving the LP School

 
Page 8

certificate of the girl where she was first admitted, the reading certificate of
Panpur High School cannot be accepted to be authentic age proof certificate
confirming the age of the girl as minor. That being the position coupled with
the medical evidence, I am of the view that the prosecution failed to prove
that the victim was below 18 years of age at the relevant time.

17. In the above, now, let us see other facts and circumstances of
the case. The prosecution story of this case is that out of love affairs
accused Srimanta Das did have physical relation with the victim, as a result
of which she carried pregnancy of three months at the time of filing the FIR
dated 29-06-2016 and knowing that her pregnancy came to.the Knowledge
of victim’s mother, accused Srimanta Das took the victimegirl on 28-06-2016
at around 6 p.m. to his house and keeping her in_his.house, he fled away
and then accused Bogai Das, father of Srimanta Das.committed her rape. In
this respect, the most material witness, the victim PW 2, admitting her love
affairs with accused Srimanta Das, stated that the accused Srimanta Das did
have physical relation with her consent, as a result of which she carried
pregnancy through him and when she.informed the matter to Srimanta Das,
his mother gave her six numbers ‘of tablets to consume, out of which she
consumed four tablets and*kept the remaining two tablets under her bed but
finding the said twortablets, her mother when got confirmed that the tablets
were for causing abortion, she informed Srimanta Das that her mother came
to know about her pregnancy and then on the very day i.e. on 28-06-2016,
at around6 psm.*he took her to his house but thereafter he went out from
home. At-that time the mother of Srimanta and father accused Bogai Das
were present. She further alleged that after Srimanta Das left his house, his
father accused Bogai Das taking her to his room raped her. It is unbelievable
that when the wife of accused Bogai Das was very much present at home,
he would commit rape to a girl. She being a major or in the verge of
majority can resist the accused or raise alarm to draw attention the wife of

the accused but she did nothing.

18. Further the alleged incident occurred in the evening after 6
p.m. of 28-06-2016 at 1.35 p.m. i.e. within less then 48 hours but no injury

was found on her body or on private part though she alleged that due to

 
Page 9

rape by accused Bogai Das, she sustained injury on her private part and had
shown the same to doctor. Though the victim’s mother stated that on the
day, when they went to the house of the accused in search of the victim
they noticed some marks over the face of the victim but the medical

evidence does not suggestive of any injury on her person.

19. The victim alleged that after committing rape, Bogai Das asked
her to say the villagers or Gaonburah that she entered into the marriage with
Bogai Das and when her mother along with Gaonburah came to the house of
the accused to bring back her, accused Bogai Das did not allow to send her
back instead her mother had to give a writing that no case. would be filed
but PW 5 Jewel Das, the neighbour stated that when they went to the house
of Bogai Das they found him in the court yard. Hostile;witness PW 3 Prabhat
Das, the village headman also stated that when he ‘went to the house of
Bogai Das along with Shyam Das (PW 4)/met the*victim and Srimanta Das
there when Bogai Das was in the court ‘yard. PW 4 Shyam Das who
accompanied PW 3 to the house of ‘Bogai»Das also corroborated the version
of PW 3. So PW 3 to PW 5 categorically stated that hearing about the
incident, when they immediately,went to the house of the accused, found
accused Bogai Das in his court yard. So, the evidence of PW 1 that on
opening the door of the.house of accused Bogai Das they rescued the victim
from the clutches.of Bogai Das or the evidence of the victim that when her
family members came to the house of the accused in search of her, accused
Bogai,Das was ‘gagging her mouth cannot be acceptable to be reliable and
believed» Further, the evidence of the victim that on that evening accused
Srimanta Das keeping her in his house, he went away negates by the
evidence of PW 3, the hostile witness who stated that when they went to the
house of the accused found the victim along with Srimanta Das. They made
different version in that respect. In the case, the testimony of the witnesses
particularly the testimony of the prosecutrix, the associated circumstances
and the medical evidence leave a mark of doubt to treat the testimony of the
prosecutrix as truthful to inspire confidence regarding rape by accused Bogai

Das and he cannot be held guilty of alleged rape on the victim.

 
Page 10

20. With regard to allegation of penetrative sexual assault against
accused Srimanta Das, the victim in evidence admitted her love with the
accused Srimanta Das. She also admitted that the accused Srimanta Das did
have physical relation with her consent. She nowhere stated that accused
Srimanta Das did have physical relation with her forcefully or under coercion
or threat. Rather she submitted herself to accused Srimanta Das. Other
witnesses remained totally silent with regard to physical relation between the
victim and accused Srimanta Das. The evidence of the victim clearly
indicates that she being a major one or in the verge of majority was a
consenting party in having physical relation with accused Srimanta‘Das, as a
result of which she carried pregnancy and lateron after. filing the FIR,
miscarriage was caused to her for consuming pills forsabortion. In the case
prosecution also failed to prove that the victim\was below the age of 18
years as discussed above, therefore, it cannot‘be:safely held that the alleged
offence attracted the provision under_POCSO Act for holding ‘consent’ in
having sexual relation with Srimanta ‘Das as immaterial.

21. On a consideration of the.entire evidence in this case, I am of
the view that the prosecution did not succeed to establish the charge u/s 4
of POCSO Act or rape against.accused Srimanta Das and Bogai Das beyond
all reasonable doubt*C€onsequently accused Srimanta Das and Bogai Das are
acquitted from the charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act on benefit of doubt and set
them at liberty forthwith. Their bail bonds shall remain in force till next six
months,

22. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 21** day
of September, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(I.Barman)

Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

 
2S Ye bo YP

—

Page 11

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8

Prosecution Witness No.9

EXHIBITS.

‘- Mother of the victim

I Victim

: Sri Prabhat Ch. Das,

i Shyam Das

'- Jewel Das

i Dr. Tutumoni Handique, M.O.

te Sri Biswajit Hazarika:

- SI keshab Ranjan Choudhury, I.O.

ASI Phanidhar Hazarika, I.O.

Exhibit 2 : FIR.

Exhibit 3 164 Gr.P.C.,statement of the victim.
Exhibit 3 Medicahreport

Exhibit 4 X-ray plates

Exhibit 5 vaginal smear report

Exhibit 6 HCG report

Exhibit 7 Advice slip

Exhibit 8 Police requisition

Exhibit 9 School admission register

Exhibit 10 student attendance register

Exhibit 11 counter foil of transfer/reading/leaving
certificate of Marami Das

Exhibit 12 Charge sheet

Exhibit 14 CD of Jamuguri PS Case No. 98/16.

(I.Barman)
SESSIONS JUDGE,

 
Page 12
