IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SPECIAL JUDGE......... BUNI.

Present: N.U. Ahmed,
Additional Special Judge,
Bijni.

7 Special (P) Case No. 30 (P)/2018
{Arising out of GR Case | No. 31/2018)

U/S 363 of the IPC R/W Section 17 of the POCSO Act.

THE STATE OF ASSAM

VS -
Md. Mojibar Ali.......... Accused.
“2 \APPEARANCE :
| Advocate for the prosecution : Mr. P. Dev Ray, learned Addl. PP.
/§ > ‘Advocate for the defence : Mr. N.K. Ghose, learned Advocate
fe Date of framing of Charge : 25.09.2018
Date of recording Evidence : 4.01.2019, 21.1.2019, 4.02.2019, 22.02.2019
and 2.03.2019
Date of Argument > 18.04.2019 & 29-04-19,
Date of Judgment > 4.05.2019
JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 15.01.2018, informant NM usstt. Joba Bibi
lodged an FIR with the O. C. Panbari P. S. alleging that on 31.12.2017 at arout 7 pm while
she was preparing food then her 13 years old daughter “X” (name withheld here in after
known as victim “X”) was missing. The informant and her family members search her
daughter and at about 2 AM of the same night one Abdul Hussain residence of village-
No. 3 Goraimari informed her that accused Rahim Ali and her daughter are in his house

and called them to take over them. Thereafter, informant brought Rahim Ali @ Babu and

cot ot Shor daughter to her house and on interrogation accused Rahim Ali G @ Babu reported that
pect

he made a conspiracy with accused Majibur Ali and in the bike (motor cycle) took her
AY te Ais \-

Ad

é

  

~

i)

daughter near No. 3 Goraimai LP School and tried to commit rape on her, but she raised
alarm and Abdul Hussain recovered her daughter and he taken her daughter and Rahim
Ali @ Babu in his house. Hence, his present case.

dn On receipt of the FIR, O/C Panbari PS registered the same as Panbari PS Case
No. 8/2018, U/S 363/376/511 of the IPC and Started investigation. After completion of
usual investigation I.0 submitted charge sheet against the accused Rahim Ali and Majbar
Ali, u/s 363 IPC read with Section 8 of the POSCO Act, showing accused Rahim Ali as

absconder

3. Since the offence u/s 8 of POSCO Act, triable by Special Judge and as such learned
Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Bijni forwarded the case to this court. On receipt of the

o Case record cognizance was taken against accused Rahim Ali and Majbur Ali, u/s 363

~

\ ‘ IPC read with Section 8 of the POSCO Act and register a Special (P) Case No. 30 (P)/ 2018

i oe

} Sand issues Summons to the accused persons. During pendency of the case Rahim Ali @
f EP

———

 

\

2€

ope.
pin

7
A
a , P

Fat ¥

wo

<

i.

fs
2

/ Babu appear and has taken a plea of juvenility and vide order dated 8.08.2018, this court

declared Rahim Ali @ Babu has juvenile in conflict with law and his case Is split up and
sent to the Juvenile Justice Board, Chirang for inquiry.

4. Copies of the relevant documents were furnished to the accused Majbar Ali as per
provision of section 207 of the Cr. P. C. After hearing both the sides learned Advocate and
on perusal of the case diary charge was framed u/s 363 of the IPC, R/W section 17 of the
POCSO Act against accused Majibur Ali and contents of charge was read over and

explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. During trial prosecution side examined as many as eight witnesses including
informant and victim. Accused was examined u/s 313 of the Cr. P. C and recorded his
statement in separate sheets attached to the case record. The defence case was of

complete denial and the defence side has not adduced any defence evidence.

6. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of both sides. I have

gone through the case record as well as evidence on record.

1g?

aie
us POINT FOR DETERMINATION

(i) what is the age of the victim “x”?
~
ee

(ii) Whether accused Majibur Ali on 31.12.2017 at about 7 p.m. at village No. 2
Monakosha under Panbari P.S kidnapped victim “X” a minor girl aged 13 years from the lawful
guardianship of Musstt. Joba Bibi and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 363 of
the IPC.

(iii) Whether on the aforesaid date time and place accused Majibar Ali abated Rahim Ali @
Babu, to commit an offence punishable u/s 8 of the POSCO act and thereby committed an
offence punishable u/s 17 of the POSCO Act, 2012.

LN :DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:
eh \

c= |

Mey ai The Prosecution to bring home the charges examined all together eight witnesses including
. _/ informant and victim. Let me scrutinize the evidence on record to decide the points.

SLATES
9. PW 1 Musstt. Juba Bibi is the informant of the case. PW 1 in her deposition has deposed
that victim “X” is her daughter and she did not know the accused person present in the dock.
She further stated that she knows Rahim Ali. In her evidence she further stated that about 1
year ago, one day afternoon while she was preparing food then her son Gafur Ali reported her
that her daughter “Xx” is missing. Thereafter, she search her daughter but did not found. In the
night at about 9/10 p.m. one Saheb Ali and Abul Hussain came to their house and told that her
daughter and one boy were standing on the road and were talking and Abul Hussain brought
them to his house and kept there. Thereafter, she, her daughter Najma Khatun, one Eyar Ali
and Mafidul were went to the house of Abul Hussain and brought her daughter and the boy to
their house. She asked her daughter about the incident and she reported to her that Rahim Ali
brought her from the road on foot and Majbur was standing with a bike. They abroad on the
motor cycle and went to the backside of one school house. Rahim Ali tried to bring her backside
the school and she objected and some men arrived and Majibar left the place of occurrence
along with bike. From Nalbari Police Came and taken Rahim Ali. Along with police, Majibur was
came to their house. She further stated that at the time of occurrence age of her daughter was

13 years and police recorded her statement. During cross examination she stated that she

  

N could not say the date of occurrence. She lodged the FIR after 15 days of the occurrence, but

Ag? .
Ws, $'8he did not explain the reason of delay in the FIR. She did not know the contents of the ejahar.
4A oa Her daughter acquainted with Rahim Ali in a brick industry. Rahim stay in their house for 4 days

this

had

and thereafter police came and taken him. She heard the incident from her daughter. She
x

+

v, ~,

. Ay
& Ad

we,

i
i

 

further stated that she did not know the date of birth of her daughter. Defence side put
suggestion to her that Majibar Ali did not bring her daughter in a motorcycle which she denied.

10. PW 2, is the victim “x”, Pw 2, in her deposition has deposed that she know Rahim Ali, but
she did not know another accused. She further stated that about 1 year ago in the first day of
January, Rahim came to their house and called her on the road. From road they went to their
school on foot. There Majibar was waiting with a motor cycle. She and Rahim broad on the
motorcycle of Majibar and went to Goraimari on the backside of school. In the backside of
school Rahim and Majibar tried to commit misdeed with her and then she raised alarm and the
villagers came there along with Abul Hussain and thereafter they brought her and Rahim to the
house of Abul Hussain and Majibar fled away from the place of occurrence with motorcycle.

‘Thereafter, Saheb Ali and Abul informed her mother and her mother and sister brought her to

3

4,

eee

) )

i
*

pe

. od
tim night Abul Hussain called him to the house of Nalu and there he came to know that daughter

thefE house. Babu @ Rahim Ali telephoned his father and his father came to their house along
GY

wit¥'police and take Rahim Ali. Thereafter, her mother filed this case. She further stated that

ws /
_~“@ftet filing the case, she was brought before doctor for her physical examination and she was
yn ae

~ also Produced before Magistrate for recording her statement. She proved her statement as

Exhibit 1 and Exhibit 1 (1) and Exhibit 1(2) are her signatures. During cross-examination she
Stated that she did not know her date of birth. She further stated that Eyar Ali, Najma Khatun
and Mafidul took her to the house of Abul Hussain from Goraimai LP School. Defence side put
suggestion to her that before Magistrate, she did not state that accused Majibar Ali take her to
Goraimari LP School on his motorcycle which she denied. She further stated that Rahim Ali stay
in their house for 4 days. She also stated that in the vehicle of police Majbar also came to their
house. Defence side also put suggestion to her that before police she did not state that in the
backside of Goraimari LP School, Rahim Ali and Majbar Ali tried to commit sexual assault on
her which she denied. She also stated that she did not know Majbur Ali earlier. Rahim Ali told
him that Majbar Rahman is his brother-in-law. While she was walking on the road, she did not
raise any alarm. Defence side put suggestion to her that Majibar Ali did not try to commit
misdeed with her which she denied. Defence side also put suggestion to her that at the time
of occurrence her age was above 18 years which she denied. Defence side put suggestion to

her that Majibar did not taken her in his motorcycle and she deposed falsely which she denied.
dase PW 3, Md. Shaheb Ali in his deposition has deposed that about 1 year ago one day at

of Nalu was kept in the house of Abul Hussain. He did not go to the house of Abul Hussain.
During cross-examination he stated that he did not know who caught the girl and boy.
 

Wa

12. PW 4, Md. Mofidul Hussain in his deposition has deposed that he did not know the accused
person and he know the informant and the victim girl. He further deposed that about 1 year
ago while he was sleeping in the house of Safiur Rahman, then Nalu called him and took him
to the house of Abul Hussain from where Nalu bring one boy and his daughter. He along with
them went to the house of Nalu and thereafter left the place of occurrence. During cross-
examination he stated that he did not know the boy and he did not know how the boy and girl
came to the house of Abul Hussain.

13. PW 5.Md. Nalu Sheikh is the father of the victim girl and husband of the informant. PW 5

in his deposition has deposed that about 1 year ago, one day evening about 7/7:30 PM, he was

at market and at that time his wife informed him that his daughter “X' is missing from the
house. Thereafter he came to his house and searched his daughter in different places but could
pt, found. Thereafter, Abul Hussain and Saheb Ali came to his house and reported him that
Babul and his daughter are kept in his house. Out of anger he has not went to the house of
Abi ‘Hussain to bring his daughter. His wife, one daughter, one Mofidul and his son-in-law went
y. te the house of Abul Hussain and bring Babu and victim “x” to their house. On being asked

~ Ay * B ys

 

them they told him that Majibar also along with them. Thereafter, his wife filed this case. During
cross examination he stated that he did not know wherefrom his daughter went there.

Thereafter, from Nalbai police came and taken away Babu from their house.

14, PW6 Md. Anser Ali, in his deposition has deposed that he knows the informant and did
not know the accused person. He further deposed that, about 1 years ago one day morning
Nalu Sheikh called him to his house. In the afternoon he went to the house of Nalu Sheikh and
saw Rahim Ali in the house of Nalu Sheikh. Nalu Sheikh reported him that on the last night his
daughter and Rahim Ali went to Goraimari LP School and people caught them and brought
them in the house of Abul Hussain. The boy told that he would marry daughter of Nalu. But
age of the boy and girl are below 18 years. They informed in the house of Rahim Ali over
phone. The boy told him that his brother-in-law Majibar also along with them. During cross-

examination he stated that he has no direct knowledge about the incident.

  

15. PW 7, Dr. Mina Hazarika is the Medical Officer of this case. PW 7 in her deposition has
A deposed that on 16.1.2018, she examined the victim "X” in connection with Panbari P.S. Case
Ah suit 8/18 and after examination he opined that according to school certificate her dated of birth
is 10.2.2006. She proved her medical certificate as Exhibit 2 and Exhibit 2 (1) his her signature.
6

16. PW8, Sri Putul Chandra Karmakar, SI of Police is the investigating Officer of this case. PW
8 in his deposition has deposed that on 15.1.2018 he was working at Panbari Police Station.
On that day O.C Panbari PS. entrusted him to investigate the Panbari PS. Case No. 08/18. After
taking the charge of investigation he went to the place of occurrence, recorded the statement
of witnesses, sent the victim girl to hospital for her physical examination, and her statement
Was recorded in the court by Judicial Magistrate u/s 164 Cr. P.C. He prepared the rough sketch
map of the place of occurrence, seized one school certificate of the victim girl by preparing
seizure list. He proved the seizure list as Exhibit 4 and Exhibit 4 (1) is his Signature. He also
proved the sketch Map as Exhibit 3 and Exhibit 3 (1) is her signature. He further stated that
he arrested accused Majibar Ali and sent him to court. Rahim Ali was absconder. After
completion of investigation he submitted charge sheet against accused persons u/s 8 of PCSCO

“Aef\and u/s 363/376/511 of the IPC. He proved the charge sheet as Exhibit 5 and Exhibit 5 ( 1)

} \ ®

* \
ws ‘
re.

wt A AS

  

WX

Bi

ig his signature. During cross-examination he stated that as per FIR the date of occurrence iS

3192.2017. In the FIR there is no mention of reason of delay in lodging the FIR. On the same

YOO | _<otght the mother of the victim girl recovered the victim girl from their relative's house. He
Nx Ary Ys .

further stated that he has not seen the school certificate which was seized by him. Defence
side, put suggestion to him that he has not duly investigated the case which he denied.

17. In this case first of all we should decide the point No.7 (i) i. e the age of the victim girl.
In this regard learned Addl. P. P. submitted that PW1 is the informant as well as mother of the
victim in her evidence stated that at the time of occurrence age of her daughter was 13 years.
PW2 is the victim of the case and she also in her evidence stated that her age is 14 years. PW1
and PW2 in their evidence Clearly stated that at the time of occurrence the age of the victim
girl was below 18 years. So, the prosecution able to prove the age of the victim girl beyond all
reasonable doubt and therefore there is no doubt that the age of the victim girl was below 18
years at the time of occurrence and such she was child as per POCSO Act.

18. On the contrary, learned advocate for the accused submitted that the Prosecution failed
to prove the actual age of the victim girl at the time of occurrence. Learned advocate also
submitted that though the victim girl was medically examined but the doctor in her report
Stated that as per school certificate the date of birth of the victim girl is 10-02-2006. The I. O.
during investigation seized one school certificate of the victim girl but the Prosecution has not
pioduced the school certificate and also failed to prove the school certificate. The victim Girl is
school going girl and as such the prosecution withheld the best evidence as regard age of the
victim girl. The defence side challenge the age of the victim girl. Though PW1 in her evidence
 

ON i
~~

 

stated that the age of the victim girl was 13 years at the time of occurrence but she during

cross examination could not able to say the date or year of birth of her daughter i. e. victim
girl. PW2 also failed to say her date of birth or year. So, they in their evidence stated the age
of PW2 on assumption and as such their evidence is not reliable and the prosecution failed to
prove that at the time of occurrence age of the victim girl was below 18 years. As the
prosecution withheld the best evidence so an adverse inference would go against the
prosecution that if the prosecution produce the best evidence then it would go against the
prosecution and it would prove that age of the victim girl was above 18 years at the time of

occurrence.

19, I have duly considered the submission of both the sides learned advocate. Ongoing

through the evidence on record it reveals that during investigation the I. O. seized one school

ertificate of the victim girl. But during evidence prosecution side neither produced the school

Fei cate nor called any witnesses from the school of the victim girl to prove her age. The

/sietim girl was medically examined but the doctor to ascertain the age of the victim girl has not

‘Mm 7 eS wy “conducted the radiologist test or ossification test and doctor in her report stated that as per

  

Ware
ws

|

school certificate date of birth of the victim girl is 10-02-2006. PW1 in her evidence simply
stated that at the time of occurrence age of her daughter was 13 years. But during cross-
examination she could not say the date of birth of the victim girl even the year of birth. Then
what basis she stated the age of the victim girl. Though parent is the best person to say the
age of the child but there must be some basis. So, I find that her evidence regarding age of
the victim girl is not believable. PW2 victim girl in her evidence stated her age 14 years but she
could not say her date of birth or year of birth. Then she on what basis stated her age.
Therefore, I find that her evidence regarding her age also not believable. The prosecution failed
to produce any other evidence regarding age of the victim girl. Hence, I find that prosecution
failed to prove that at the time of occurrence age of the victim girl was below 18 years. It is
settled law that in a criminal proceeding if two view can be taken and one is goes in favour of
the accused and another goes against the accused then which evidence goes in favour of the
accused should be accepted. In this case two view can be taken i. e. the age of victim may be
above 18 years or may be below 18 years. The view that the age of victim girl may be above
18 years would go in favour of the accused and may be below 18 years would go against the

accused. So, in this case there is no other option but to hold that at the time of occurrence age

AGF the victim girl was above 18 years.

20. To attract the provision of offence under the POCSO Act, the victim must be a child. A
child is defined u/s 2(d) of the POCSO Act. From the definition of child, it appears that a child
means any person below the age of 18 years. From the discussion made above, it appears that
the age of victim girl was above 18 years and as such the provision of the POCSO Act is not
applicable in this case and accused is not found guilty u/s 17 of the POCSO Act.

21. Next we should see whether the prosecution able to prove the offence u/s363 of the IPC
against the accused person. The offence of kidnapping is punishable u/s 363 of the IPC. The
offence of kidnap is define u/s 361 of the IPC as follows:-

361. Kidnapping from lawful guardianship.—Whoever takes or entices any minor
under [sixteen] years of age if a male, or under 2[eighteen] years of age if a female,
or any person of unsound mind, out of the keeping of the lawful guardian of such minor
or person of unsound mind, without the consent of such guardian, is said to kidnap such

\“? \ minor or person from lawful guardianship.
' - * u“ . utes . . -
} = Explanation.—The words “lawful guardian” in this section include any person

lawfully entrusted with the care or custody of such minor or other person.

 

: as ” (Exception) —This section does not extend to the act of any person who in good faith
believes himself to be the father of an illegitimate child, or who in good faith believes himself
to be entitled to lawful custody of such child, unless such act is committed for an immoral or
unlawful purpose.

22. On plain reading of the definition of kidnap it reveals that to constitute an offence of
kidnap, the age of the victim is vital. In case of male he should not be above 16 years and in
case of female she should not be above 18 years. Here, in this case the age of the victim girl
is revealed above 18 years. So, in this case the ingredient of offence u/s 363 of the IPC is
lacking.

23. Next we should see whether accused Majibar Ali committed any offence or not. 1° of all
we should see how far the prosecution case is believable. As per allegation the incident took
place on 31-12-2017 at night and on the same night the victim girl was recovered along with
a boy Rahim Ali. From the evidence on record it reveals that the informant kept Rahim Ali in
her house for four days and thereafter father of Rahim Ali came to the house of informant

along with police ant taken Rahim Ali to his house. From the evidence on record it also reveals

  

\) that while father of Rahim Ali came to the house of informant along with police then accused
, adMajibar Ali also came with the police. The informant filed the FIR on 15-01-2018 i. e. after 15

Wi °

“ we tat
a 4 py"

 

days of the incident. The informant neither in her FIR nor in her evidence stated reason of
delay in lodging the FIR. While accused Majibar Ali came to the house of informant along with
f police then also informant has not reported the incident to the police. Though it is settled law
 

that delay always not fatal to the prosecution case but in ordinary and unexplained delay is
fatal to the prosecution case. The informant kept the boy Rahim Ali in her house for four days
without informing the police. After four days father of the boy and accused Majibar Ali came to
the house of informant along with police and taken away Rahim Ali but the informant then also
has not informant the matter to police. After 15 days of the incident she woke up and decided
to lodge an FIR. She has not given any explanation of the delay. So, I find that the FIR of the
informant is after thought and delay in this case is fatal to the prosecution case. Hence, I find

that the delay in lodging the FIR is create doubt on the prosecution case.

24. From the evidence of PW1 and the FIR it reveals that the incident took place on the night
of 31-12-2017. On the other hand PW2 in her evidence and statement u/s 164 of the Cr. P. C.
stated that the incident took place on the night of 01-01-2018. So, it appears that there is no
corroboration regarding date of occurrence. To consider the evidence of PW2 victim, her
: ostatement u/s 164 of the Cr. P. C. is very much important. PW2 in her statement u/s 164 of the
c. R C. stated that on 01-01-2018 at about 7 PM Rahim Ali called her at mobile phone and
yk aged her to accompany him. After some time Rahim Ali came to her house and she went with
“o\ ‘or Zé /rim in his motorcycle to Goraimari L. P. School. There, one Majibar Rahman, who is brother-in-
Mees Taw of Rahim Ali took the motorcycle and left the place of occurrence. Thereafter, one Abul met
them and took both of them to his house. On the other hand PW2 in her evidence stated that
on the 1° day of January in the evening Rahim Ali asked her to come to road and she according
came to road and they walk up to the School of their village where they met Majibar and
accused Majibar took them to Garaimari school on his motor cycle and Majibar and Rahim tried
to take her back side the school to commit misdeed and then she raised alarm and villager
came their and Abul Hussain took her and Rahim to his house and Majibar left the place of
occurrence along with motorcycle. So, it appears that there is no consistency in the evidence
of PW2 which also cast doubt on her evidence. Hence, I find that the evidence of PW1 and
PW? are not reliable and trustworthy. Other witnesses had not seen the incident. Hence, I have
nothing to hesitate to hold that prosecution failed to bring home the charges against the

accused person beyond all reasonable doubt.

Ew 25. From the discussion made above, I find that the prosecution side miserably failed to prove
see’ charges against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, accused Majibar Alli is
wt ound not guilty u/s363 of the IPC, R/W section 17 of the POCSO Act and he is acquitted from

ie the charge of offence u/s 363 of the IPC, R/W section 17 of the POCSO Act and set him free

at his liberty forthwith.

 
 

26. Send a copy of the judgment to the District Magistrate, Chirang as per provision of Section
365 of the Cr.P.C.

27. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case I find that this is not a fit case to
refer the matter to DLSA, Chirang for victim compensation.

28. Bail bonds furnished by the accused persons shall remain in force till next six months from
today as per provision of section 437-A of the Cr. P. C.

~ \ The seized school certificate be returned to the informant in due course of time.

Given under my hand & seal of this court on this the 4" day of May, 2019.

| f i)
(NU. Ahmed)

Asaitional Sprcal judge,

BL nBijni.

 

 
 

APPENDIX
(A) Prosecution witnesses:
PW1- Musstt. Juba Bibi
PW2-Victim “X”
PwW3- Md. Shaheb Ali
PW4- Md. Mofidul Hussain
PW5- Md. Nalu Sheikh
PW6- Md. Anser Ali
~ 288 PW7- Dr. Mina Hazarika
ah & PW8- Sri Putul Ch. Karmakar
B\ é > / (B) Defence witnesses: Nil.
Be x (C) Prosecution exhibits:
0 4 BIW Exhibit-1, Statement of victim u/s 164 of the Cr. P. C.
Exhibit-2, Medical report.
Exhibit-3, Sketch map.
Exhibit-4, seizer list.
Exhibit-5, Charge sheet.
(D) Defence witnesses: Nil.
(E) Defence exhibits: Nil.
(F) Court Witnesses: Nil.
(G) Court exhibits: Nil.

oo

Yash

, —“

Additio
Bijni.

AY
