 

|
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE...... BUNI.

Present: N.U. Ahmed,
Special Judge,
Bijni.

_ Special(P) case No.13(B)/2019

U/S 354 of the IPC, R/W section 8 of the POCSO Act.

THE STATE OF ASSAM
WS -
Md. Anar Ali..... Accused.

 

APPEARANCE:
| Advocate for the prosecution - Mr. P. Dev Ray, learned Addl. P.P. «
| s : % . Advocate for the defence : Mr. S. Kr. Das, learned Advocate.
& NZ, Date of charge : 29-08-2019.
3 ) Sm | Date of evidence : 11-09-19, 24-09-19, 06-12-19, & 18-12-19.
A eee Ji, pate of Argument : 04-02-2020 & 15-02-2020
*/ Date of Judgment : 26-02-2020.

JUDGMENT
i. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 20-07-2019, informant Asak Ali lodged an
FIR with the I/C Ballamguri O. P. alleging inter-alia that on 20-07-2019 at about 1:00 PM
his daughter (name withheld herein after Known as victim ‘X’) along with Sabina Khatun,
Jesmina Khatun and Kamala Khatun were gone to Khayar garden to collect fire wood.
While they were searching fire wood, then suddenly accused Anar Ali came there and
_ with a pretext to uplift victim “X’"s bundle of firewood on her head, tried to disrobe her
V’ and tried to commit rape on her. The other girls were searching fi rewood inside the jungle.
v Victim “X” raised hue and cry and on hearing hue and cry of the victim “xX”, her two friends
yo” came to the place of occurrence and accused Anar Ali fled away from the place of
“ghos occurrence. Hence, the present case.
eam
2. On receipt of the FIR, 1/C Ballamguri O. P. entered the same in General Dairy
vide GDE No.168 dated 20-07-2019 and forwarded the same to O. C. Bijni P. S. On receipt
2

of FIR, O. C. Bijni P. S. registered a case being Bijni P. S. case No. 238/19, U/S 354 of
the IPC R/W section 8 of the POCSO Act and started investigation. During investigation
I. O. visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of witnesses, recorded the
statement of victim girl under section 164 of the Cr. P. C. by Judicial Magistrate, sent the
victim girl to Hospital for medical examination, seized one school certificate of the victim
girl and after completion of investigation I.0. submitted charge sheet against accused
Anar Ali u/s 354 of the IPC R/W section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 ( in short here in after called as POCSO Act)

3. After receiving the charge sheet cognizance was taken u/s 354 of the IPC, R/W
section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, against the
accused Anar Ali and started a Special (P) case. Copies of the relevant documents were
furnished to the accused person as per provision of section 207 of the Cr. P. C. After

hearing both the sides learned Advocate and on perusal of case record charge was framed

ad fj oy
whe

2 Was read over and explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and
“aimed to be tried.

@)

  
 

4. During trial prosecution side examined as many as nine witnesses including
14 informant and the victim. Accused was examined u/s 313 of the Cr. P. C. and recorded
his statement in separate sheets. The defence case was of complete denial and the

defence side has not adduced any defence evidence.

5. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of both sides. I have

gone through the case record as well as evidence on record. |

POINT FOT DETERMINATION

6. (i) Whether accused on 20-07-19 at about 1 PM at No.3 Dakhin Makra, Khayar
\ garden under Bijni P.S., voluntarily assaulted victim “X” a minor girl with intending to
AP outrage her modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 354 of the IPC?
dy (ii) Whether accused on the same day, time and place, sexually assaulted victim
ao" “X” and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012?
 
  

3

: DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

Vn To bring home the charges the prosecution examined nine witnesses including the

informant, M.O and victim. Let me scrutinize the evidence on record to decide the points.

8. PW1 Md. Esak Ali is the informant of this case. PW1 in his deposition has deposed
that he knows the accused Anar Ali. Victim “X” is his daughter. About two and half months
ago, one day at about 11/12 am he came to his house and his wife reported him that
while victim “X” went to collect fire wood then Anar Ali caught hold her and tried to disrobe
her and she raised hue and cry and on hearing her hue and cry two girls namely, Jesmina
Khatun and Sabina came near the place of occurrence and accused fled away from the
place of occurrence. Thereafter, his wife and he went to the house of accused Anar Ali
and they report the incident to the parents of the accused but accused Anar Ali assaulted
him and his wife. Thereafter, they returned to their house. Thereafter, he filed this case.

\Z\ He proved the FIR as Ext.1 and Ext.1(1) is his signature. After filing the case police went

 
 

* to the place of occurrence and asked him about the incident. Police also seized one school
S / certificate of his daughter and he put his signature in the seizure list. He proved the seizer
list as Ext.2 and Ext.2(1) is his signature.

During his cross-examination, he stated that the land from where his daughter
was collecting fire wood is belong to one Satish Master. Near the place of occurrence Gazi
Rahman has a betel-nuts garden. Gazi Rahman is the elder brother of Anar Ali. In a little
distance from the place of occurrence there is natural Pond. He heard the incident at
about 12/1 P.M. There is a bamboo fencing around the betel-nuts garden of Gazi Rahman.
Defence side put suggestion to him that his daughter i.e., victim “x” along with two others
girls went to the betel nuts garden of Gazi Rahman to pick up the bamboo fencing stick
and the accused persons along with his brother and his son tried to prevent them from
picking up the bamboo fencing and at that time other two girls fled away but his daughter
fell down on the ground, which he denied. Defence side put suggestion to him that he

\ deposed falsely, which he denied. The incident of assaulting him and his wife by the
| vv np accused had not seen by any other persons except the family members of the accused

Av person and his family members. Defence side put suggestion to him that accused did not
6 try to remove the cloth of his daughter and accused has not touch the body of his
~ ye? daughter, which he denied. Defence side also put suggestion to him that he filed false
oo case against the accused and depose falsely, which he denied.

69°

9. PW2, Johura Khatun, in her deposition has deposed that informant is her husband.
4

She knows the accused Anar Ali. Victim “X” is her daughter. About 3 months ago, one day,
while she was in her house then her daughter returned back after collecting fire wood
and she fell down in the courtyard and reported her that while she was coming back with
fire wood in her head then she was tried, she sit down to take rest near the betel nuts
garden and at that time accused Anar Ali was going near the place of occurrence to catch
fish and accused touch her body and she raised hue and cry and the accused fled away
on the East. After getting the information, she along with her husband went to the house
of accused and reported the incident to his parents. The parents of the accused person
stated that they abandoned their son and they express their inability to help them.
Thereafter, Anar Ali came out and pushed and gagged her and assaulted her husband.
Thereafter, they returned to their-house and her husband filed this case. Police asked her
oo about the incident and recorded her statement.
> \ During her cross-examination, she stated that a talk of compromise was going on
\Batween them and they sought Rs.10,000/- as compensation but accused and his family
giémbers denied to pay the amount. Near the place of occurrence there is a betel nuts
/ garden of Gazi Rahman. Gazi Rahman is the brother of accused Anar Ak. Defence side put
"” suggestion to her that her daughter along with two others girls went to the betel nuts
garden of Gazi Rahman to pick up the bamboo fencing stick and the accused person along
with his brother and his son tried to prevent them from picking up the bamboo fencing
and at that time other two girls fled away but her daughter fell down in the ground, which
she denied. She further stated that the incident was seen by several people. Defence side
put suggestion to her that they filed a false case against the accused and she deposed
falsely, which she denied. Defence side also put suggestion to her that accused did not
touch the body of their daughter, which she denied. Defence side also put suggestion to

her that in the interest of her husband she deposed falsely, which she denied.

10. P.W.3, is the victim “X”. PW3 in her evidence stated that informant is her father.
She knows the accused Anar Ali. About 1 month ago, one day at about 10 a.m. she and
her two friends went to collect fire wood from Khayar garden. After collecting firewood at
np about 12:00 noon while they were returning then they sit down under Shisu tree to take
CY rest. At that time accused Anar Ali was going to catch fish from this side. She lifted
\\ firewood bundle on her head but her cloth fell down from her head and she tried to pick
WP ‘ yo” up the cloth. Then accused Anar Ali told her that he would lift the cloth. But at the time

 

a
ge a™ of lifting the cloth accused touched her chest. Thereafter she raised hue and cry and
returned to her house. On hearing her hue and cry her two friend who were proceeded

in front of her came to her and she met two persons and she reported the incident to that
5

two persons and the persons asked her to report the matter to the parent of accused.
She came to her house and reported the incident to her mother. After getting the
information, her mother and father went to the house of accused and reported the
incident to his parents and Anar assaulted her parents. Thereafter, her father filed this
case. She further stated that the name of her two friends are Jesmina and Sabina. After
filing the case police took her in the court and Magistrate recorded her statement. She
proved her statement as Ext.3 and Ext.3(1), 3(2), 3(3) and 3(4) are her signatures. She
also stated that accused persons touching her chest and tried to disrobe her.

During her cross-examination, she stated that while accused Anar Ali lifting her
fire wood on her head then her two friends gone ahead and name of another two persons
are Gaji and Rafik. Near the place of occurrence there is a betel nuts garden of Gaji
Rahman and the betel nuts garden was surrounded by bamboo fencing. The bamboo

SON fencing was in broken conditions. Defence side put suggestions to her that she took the
an ‘\% bamboo stick from the bamboo fencing, which she denied. Defence side also put
Vy Say § suggestion to her that while she was taking bamboo stick from the bamboo fencing of the
er oy garden of Gaji Rahman then accused Anar, his son and his brother Gaji prevented her and
thereafter, they run away, which she denied. Gaji Rahman is the brother of accused Anar.
Defence side put suggestion to her that accused person did not lifted her fire wood bundle
on her head, accused did not touch her chest and also did not try to disrobe her, which
she denied. Defence side put suggestion to her that accused person did not assault her
father and mother, which she denied. Defence side further put suggestion to her that her

father filed this case on false allegation and she deposed falsely, which she denied.

11. PW4, Lalchand Ali, in his deposition has deposed that he knows the informant Asak
Ali and the victim “X”. He also knows accused Anar Ali. About 2 months ago, he heard
that while victim “X” was returning after collecting fire wood then accused Anar Ali caught
her on the road. The informant lodged the FIR and Police took one School Certificate of
victim “X” and seized the same. He put his signature in the seizure list. He proved the
seizer list as Ext.2 and Ext.2(2) is his signature.

During his cross-examination, he stated that he cannot say the date of hearing

W about the incident. Police went to the house of informant and, thereafter, took them to

 

wh ye place of occurrence and in the place of occurrence police took his signature in a paper.
Wr yr” He has not notice whether Ext.2 was written or blank at the time of taking his signature.

oP

Vode Police went to the place of occurrence on the next day of the incident.

12.  P.W5 Miss Jesmina Khatoon, in her deposition has deposed that she knows the
 

  
 

6

informant, victim “X” and the accused person. She further stated that about 2 months
ago, one day noon they went to the garden of Satish Master to collect fire wood. While
they were returning to their house along with the fire wood bundles and she was ahead
of victim “X” then accused Anar Ali was going on that side. From their back side victim
“x” screamed and they run to the place of occurrence and found that victim “X” was crying
and she told her that accused touch her chest. Thereafter, they took the victim “X” to her
house. Victim “X” reported the incident to her parents and parents of the victim “X” went
to the house of accused to inquire about the incident and accused Anar Ali tried to assault

them with spade. Thereafter, father of victim “X” filed this case.
During cross-examination, she stated that they three friends went to the victim
“X” but they did not found accused Anar Ali there. Defence side put suggestion to her that
[ So, adjacent to the garden of Satish Master there is land of brother of accused, which she
J Niienied, Defence side also put suggestion to her that they broke the fencing of Gaji All,
4 \ Which she denied. She further stated that while they were returning towards their house

~
ys

Vo ae | & |
>\ ae | fhen accused Anar Ali, his brother and his son chased them. Defence side put suggestion

;
i

ON ~ /, 0 her that as the accused chase them and for this reason father of victim “X” filed this

s.™“ a
agian ce

“false case and on the tutor of informant she falsely deposed, which she denied.

13.  PW6, Miss Kamala Khatun, in her deposition has deposed that she knows the
informant, victim and accused person. She further stated that about 2 months ago, one
day, she, Sabina, Jesmina and the victim “x” went to the khayar garden for collecting fire
wood. She alone collected the fire wood and returned to her house. Victim “X” was came
later. After she reached home and while she was taking food then victim “X” told her that

accused touched her body.

14.  PW7, Miss Sabina Khatun, in her deposition has deposed that she knows the
informant, victim “X” and the accused person. She further stated that about 2 months
ago, one day, she, Kamala, Jesmina and victim “X” went to garden for collecting fire wood.

The fire wood was fell down from the head of victim “x” and while the accused lifting the

a . . wy .

4 fire wood on the head of victim “X” then accused caught her. Victim X” raised hue and
\ cry and she went there. She saw that accused was caught hold the victim “X” and on
'

\\

Pe a) seeing that incident she raised hue and cry and ran away from the place of occurrence.

VN ww o

( Lak :
Los along with her there was Kamala and Jesmina. She further stated that she deposed in

S

° During cross-examination, she stated that at the time of hue and cry of victim “x"

court on the tutor of informant Asak Ali who is his maternal grandfather. Defence side put

suggestion to her that while they were collecting fire wood then accused Anar, his brother

 
 

 

- qi”

7

and his son chased them which she denied and accused did not touch the body of the
victim “X”, which she denied.

15. PW8, Dr. Amritamsh Mishra, is the M.O of this case. PW8 in his deposition has
deposed that on 31.07.2019, he was working at Ballamgri P.H.C as M.O. On that day at
about 12.40 PM, he had examined Md. Ashak Ali and Jahanara Khatun in connection with
Bijni PS case No. 238/19. The patient was escorted by Babulal Basumatary. On
examination he found simple fresh injury of Md. Ashak Ali and he has not found any visible
injury of Miss Johura Khatun. He proved the medical report as Ext.4 and Ext.4(1) is his
signature. ,

During cross-examination, he stated that in Ext.4 he had not described the injury

of Ashak Ali. He has not given any opinion regarding injury.

16. PW9, Sri Lohit Medhi, is the 1.0 of this case. PW9 in his deposition has deposed

\ that on 21-0-19, he was working at Ballamguri outpost. On that day infermant Asak Ali
=| lodged an FIR and he entered the same in the general diary vide G.D.E No. 168 dated

21-07-19 and forwarded the FIR to Bijni P.S to register a case and he took the charge of
investigation. He further stated that during investigation he visited the place of
occurrence, recorded the statement of witnesses, prepared the sketch map of the place
of occurrence, sent the victim girl to hospital for medical examination and arrested the
accused person. Thereafter, O.C Bijni P.S registered a case being Bijni PS Case No.
238/19 and entrusted him for investigation. He collected the medical report and School
certificate of the victim girl and also sent the victim girl for recording her statement U/s
164 CrP.C. Thereafter, after completion of investigation he submitted charge-sheet
against the accused Anar Ali u/s 354 of the IPC and Section. 8 of the POCSO Act. He
proved the seizure list as Ext.2 and Ext.2(3) is his signature. He also proved the sketch
map as Ext.5 and Ext.5(1) is his signature. He also proved the charge-sheet as Ext.6 and
Ext.6(1) is his signature.

During cross-examination, he stated that PW7 Sabina Khatun before him has not

stated that at the time of incident she was near the victim “X”. Defence side put suggestion

»¥’ to him that he has not properly investigated the case, which he denied.

y

.”17. Learned Addl. P.P. submitted that when an allegation leveled against an accused

under the POCSO Act, then the special Court shall as per provision of Section 29 of the
POCSO Act presumed that accused has committed the offence. Here in this case the
allegation against the accused is u/s 8 of the POCSO Act and as such court shall presume
  

8

convict the accused person.

Learned advocate further submitted that the victim girl along with PW5, PW6

that accused has committed the offence. Learned Addl. P.P. also submitted that the victim
girl in her evidence categorically stated that the accused person touch on her chest and
tried to disrobe her and as such the prosecution able to prove the offence u/s 8 of the

POCSO Act against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt and this is a fit case to

18. | On the contrary, learned advocate for the accused person submitted that though
under the POSCO Act a statute presumption goes against the accused person but the
presumption is not absolute and it is rebuttable and the prosecution should prove its case

to the extent of guilt of tHe accused and, thereafter, the presumption come to play.

and PW7

went to the betel nut garden of the brother of accused and they broke the bamboo fencing

of the garden and while the accused and his brother Gaji Rahman and his son were going

See to catch fish then on seeing them they chased the victim and other girls and for this

 

oh,

\\Oreason the victim girl falsely implicated the accused person. Learned Advocate also

esubmitted that PW5 in her cross-examination clearly stated that while they were coming

Sea /.S%0 their house then accused Anar Ali, brother of Anar Ali and son of Anar Ali chased them.

ree /” PW6 who was also accompanied of the victim girl, in her evidence stated that after

collecting the fire wood she come to the house and then she came to know about the

incident. Learned advocate further submitted that PW7 also in her cross-examination

stated that on the tutor of informant she deposed in the court. So, there are

so many

anomalies in the prosecution witnesses and as such it creates doubt on the prosecution

case and the accused is entitled to benefit of doubt. Learned advocate also submitted that

prosecution failed to prove this case against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt and

this is a fit case to acquit the accused person.

19. Ihave duly considered the submission of both the side learned advocate. In this

case there is no dispute regarding age of the victim “X”. Victim “x” in her evidence stated

7) her age 12 years. The defence side has not challenged the age of the victim girl.

a

/

is no doubt that at the time of occurrence the age of the victim girl was below

\) , Ne w and she was child as per definition of section 2(d) of the POCSO Act.
| IN WP P

~~ > 2
,
}

°

om a 20. As per section 29 of the POCSO Act the statute cast duty on the specia

So, there

18 years

| court to

presume that if an allegation leveled against the accused person then the special Court

shall presumed that accused person committed the offence. Section 29 of the POCSO Act
provide as follows:-

“29, Presumption as to certain offences.- Where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under section 3, 5, 7
and section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may be, unless

the contrary is proved.”

21. On plain reading of section 29 of the POCSO Act, it reveals that the statute cast
duty on the special court to presume that accused had committed the offence unless the
contrary is proved. So, it Feveals that the presumption u/s 29 of the POCSO Act it
rebuttable. So, to presume the accused to be guilt we should scrutinize the evidence on

record.

22.  PW3 is the victim girl of the case. PW3 in her evidence stated that while the
~ accused lifting fire wood on her head then accused touch on her chest and tried to disrobe
Nper and she raised hue and cry and on hearing hue and cry PW5, and PW7 came to the
a "hace of occurrence and on seeing them accused person fled away. In her evidence she
ot JE “Also stated that on the way she met two persons and during cross-examination she
e 7 ‘disclosed the name of those two persons are Gaji and Rafik. Gaji is the elder brother of
the accused. PW5 also in her evidence stated that accused Anar Ali, his brother and his
son chased them while they were coming towards their house. From the evidence of PW5
it reveals that she has not seen accused Anar Ali in the spot. PW6 in her evidence stated
that she come to know about the incident after she returned home. PW7 in her evidence
stated that she saw that accused Anar Ali caught hold the victim girl and on seeing the
incident she raised hue and cry and ran from the place of occurrence but during her cross-
examination she stated that she deposed in the court on the tutor of the informant. But
on the other hand from the evidence of PW5, it reveals that she and PW7 on hearing hue
and cry of PW3 went to the place of occurrence and PW3 reported them about the incident
and she has not seen accused Anar Ali in the place of occurrence. If PW5 and PW7 were
vP went to the place of occurrence at the same time then obviously both of them should see
Ap the accused person. But PW7 in her evidence stated that she saw the accused caught
a oe hold the victim girl and on seeing the said incident she raised hue and cry and left the

> place of occurrence. On the other hand PW5 in her evidence stated that she and PW7

 

brought the victim girl to her house and reported the incident to PW1 and she has not
seen accused Anar Ali in the place of occurrence. Pw3, PW5, PW6 and PW7 are child
10

witness and they are most vulnerable witness and there is every possibility of tutor of
child witness. PW7 in her evidence clearly stated that on the tutor of informant she

deposed in the court.

 

23. PW1 and PW2 had not seen the occurrence. PW1 after hearing the incident from

PW3 lodged the FIR. Though the FIR is not substantive piece of evidence yet it is soul of

the prosecution case. The prosecution case set into motion on the basis of FIR. So, the
statement of FIR should also be considered at the time of appreciation of evidence. PW1

in the FIR stated that on the day of occurrence at about 1 P.M. while his daughter was
collecting fire wood at Khayar garden then accused suddenly came there and on the
pretext of lifting the bundle of fire wood on the head of his daughter tried to disrobe her

and attempt to commit rape on her. She raised hue and cry and her accompanied girls
came to the place of occurrence and accused Anar Ali fled away. But from the evidence

of PW1 and PW2, it reveals that after PW3 reported the incident to them then they went

to the house of accused Anar Ali and accused Anar Ali had assaulted PW1 and PW2 and,
thereafter, he filed this case. But PW1 remained silent about his assault inethe FIR. PW2

in her cross-examination also stated that a talk of compromise was going on and they

: Saimed Rs.10000/-, but the accused person denied to pay the money and for this reason
ns NS husband filed this case. From the evidence of PW5 it reveals that on the day of

gcturrence accused, his brother and son chased them while they were returning home. If

 

N set Hey were chased then there is no question of lifting of bundle of firewood on the head
"of victim by accused person. Every fact has to some probability. From the evidence on
record it reveals that while PW3, PW5, PW6 and PW7 were returning to their house then
accused, his elder brother and son were going on that road to catch fish and they chased
them. If along with accused there were his elder brother and son, then it is not probable
that in presence of his son and elder bother he would tried to molest a little girl. From the
evidence on record it also reveals that there is butel-nut garden of the elder brother of
the accused which is surrounded by bamboo fencing and the bamboo fencing was in
broken condition. So, the defence plea of collecting bamboo stick of the fencing by the
victim and her friends and accused and his brother chasing the victim and her friends
Ap cannot be ignored. Rather PWS in her evidence clearly proved the plea of the defence.
ah dence, considering entire evidence on record I find that it is not safe to rely on the
s¥ 0° evidence of PW3 and PW7 and evidence of PW3 and PW7 are not believable at all. Other

 

VO
one ow” Witnesses had not seen the incident. Therefore, I have nothing to hesitate to hold that
prosecution failed to prove the charges against the accused person and the prosecution

case is doubtful.
24. From the discussion made above, I find that prosecution failed to bring home the
charges against the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, accused Anar
Ali is found not guilty u/s 354 of the IPC R/W section 8 of the POCSO Act. So, accused
Anar Ali is acquitted from the offence u/s 354 of the IPC R/W section 8 of the POCSO Act
and he is set free at his liberty forthwith. .

22. Bail bond furnished by the accused person shall remain in force till next six

months from today as per provision of section 437-A of the Cr. P. C.

26. Send a copy of judgment and order to the District Magistrate, Chirang as per
provision of section 365 of the Cr. P. G

27. The seized document be returned to the informant in due course of time.

Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, I find that this is not a fit

to recommended the DLSA, Chirang for victim compensation u/s 357-A of the Cr.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 26" day of February,
2020.

AP
lA

 
   

CW. U. Ahmed)
Judge
Dictated and corre at wae spec F fudge, i
Bijni.

ial VO
' Bijni

Bijni.

 
 

APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

PW1- Asak Ali

PW2- Johura Khatun

Pw3- Victim “X”

PW4- Lalchan Ali.

PW5- Miss Jesmina Khatoon.
PW6- Miss Kamala Khatun.
PW7- Miss Sabina Khatun.
PW8- Dr. Amritamsh Mishra
Pw9- Sri Lohit Medhi.

(B) Prosecution exhibit-

Ext.1- FIR.

Ext.2- Seizure List.

Ext.3- Statement of the victim “X” u/s 164 of the Cr. P. C.
Ext.4- Medical examination report.

Ext.5- Sketch Map.

Ext.6- Charge sheet.

(C) Defence witnesses- Nil.
(D) Defence exhibit- Nil.

Spemahudger udge

Bijni. Bifni

 
