1

_IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 34/2018
_U/S 12/18 of POCSO Act

PRESENT : Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi, AJS,

Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:- 10.05.2018

State of Assam
- Vs -
Ranjit Arjya

Date of Recording Evidence on - 27.02.2019

Date of Hearing Argument on - 27.02.2019.

Date of Delivering the Judgment on - 27.02.2019.

Appearance :

Advocate for the State------------------ Mrs. P. Das, Learned Addl. P.P.

Advocate for the Accused-------------- Mr. Faijur Rahman, Learned Advocate.
UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that, on 19.06.2018 one Subhash

Khatriya lodged an ejahar in Barpeta Road P.S. alleging inter alia that his 13
years old sister reading in Class Vill was subjected to sexual harassment by
the accused person in the way to her school and on 18-06-2018 at about 7
pm accused trespass into his house accompanied with another unknown
youth with a view to take his sister, but the family members caught the
accused and handed him over after smothered him. Hence the case.

2. Acting on the information police got a case registered being Barpeta
Road P.S. case No. 288/18 u/s 448 IPC and section 4/12/18 of POCSO Act
and investigated the case.

3. On completion of investigation, police finally laid the charge sheet
against accused Ranjit Arjya u/s 448 IPC and section 4/12/18 of POCSO Act
with a view to stand trial.

4. In due course, when accused entered his appearance in court vide
order dated 08-10-2018 all the particulars relating to the case have been
Z

furnished to him as mandated by section 207 Cr.P.C. Thereafter, having
heard the learned counsel and on perusal of the record having found a
prima facie case charge u/s 12/18 of POCSO Act were framed. The
substance of the offences on being read over and explained accused
pleaded not guilty and claim trial.

5. During the course of trial, the prosecution examined 2 witnesses
namely the informant and the alleged victim as PW-1 and PW-2
respectively, but considering the nature of evidence adduce by them
giving an opportunity of hearing to the learned Addl. P.P. further prosecution
evidence stands closed.

6. Examination of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C. is also dispensed with in view
of lack of implicating materials. The plea of the accused is total denial of the
prosecution case. As such, on being asked accused declined to adduce
defence evidence.

7; Now point for determination ;-

.1. Whether on 18-06-2018 at about 7 pm accused committed sexual
harassment on the victim as alleged ?

.2. Whether on 18-06-2018 at about 7 pm accused attempts to
commit an offence punishable under this act or cause such an
offence to be committed as alleged ?

8. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-

 

| have heard the learned lawyers appearing for both sides and also
carefully scanned the prosecution evidence available on record.
9. The learned counsel appearing for the State Smti. P. Das submitted
that though the prosecution examined 2 witnesses but the court may pass
judgment after assessment of evidence as the quality of evidence adduce
by them does not justify to proceed further with the case for recording
evidence of remaining witnesses.
10. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the accused
person vehemently contended that there is absolutely nothing in the
evidence of the prosecution witnesses which constitute the ingredients of
the offences u/s 12/18 of POCSO Act. According to the learned defence
counsel, the prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of accused for
sustaining conviction for the offence u/s 12/18 of POCSO Act. As such, the
learned counsel prays to acquit the accused person.
3

11. In the context of the submission of the learned counsel appearing for
both sides it would be in the fitness of things to refer to section 12 & 18 as
defined in the POCSO Act 2012.

“12. Punishment for sexual harassment. - Whoever, commits
sexual harassment upon a child shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to 3 years and shall also be
liable to fine.”

“18. Punishment for attempt to commit an offence . - Whoever,
attempts to commit any offence punishable under this act or to cause such
an offence to be committed, and in such attempt, does any act towards the
commission of the offence shall be punished with imprisonment of any
description provided for the offence, for a term which may extend to one
half of the imprisonment for life or, as the case may be, one half of the
longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence or with fine or with
both.”

IZ. Now, on perusal of the offences u/s 12 and 18 of POCSO Act and
having heard the learned counsels appearing for both sides and on careful
perusal of the evidence available on record particularly the evidence of the
alleged victim it transpires that she has depose in court contrary to the
allegations made in the FIR (Exhibit 1). In Exhibit 1 it was alleged that
accused followed her and gave sexual gestures towards her on her way to
school and back and also allegedly came to her house accompanied with
another person with a view to take her in the odd hours, but in her evidence
in court she stated that accused quarrel with her when she visited the
market following which case was filed by her brother even though in her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. also (Exhibit 2) she has stated that accused
disturb her while visiting school alone and also visited her house in odd
hours.

13. Like wise her brother PW-2 also deposed in similar vein. He even
expressed his ignorance what has been written in the FIR (Exhibit 1) as he
stated in court that he do not know how to read and write. The evidence of
PW-1 & PW-2 are found not credible and trust worthy in any manner.

14. The evidence of alleged victim also does not inspire any confidence
in the mind of the court regarding commission of the alleged offences u/s 12
and 18 of POCSO Act, 2012 by accused person. Form the evidence on record
it transpires that the prosecution fail to establish the age of the alleged
victim girl by way of proving her date of birth or by way of any other
4

credible documents. In the absence of any such documentary proof no
inference can be drawn that the girl was minor at the relevant time. In her
cross-examination she stated that now she married. So, her evidence is at
variance and no conclusive evidence is there as regards her age.

15. In the result, this court has no option but to acquit the accused Ranjit
Arjya from the charges u/s 12 and 18 of POCSO Act on the ground of benefit
of doubt and set him at liberty forthwith.

16. The terms of bail bond of accused is extended for a period of 6 (six)
months from to-day as provided U/S 437(A) of Cr.P.C.

17. Let a copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District
Magistrate, Barpeta as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.

18. Let case record be consigned to record room as per procedure.

19. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on 27th day of February,
2019, at Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me Sd/-
Sd/- (Sri C.B. Gogoi)
(Sri C.B. Gogoi) Special Judge,
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Barpeta.
APPENDIX

The prosecution has examined the following 6 nos. of witnesses:-

PW-1

is Subhash Khatriya.
PW-2 = is Usha Khatriya, the victim.

The prosecution has exhibited only one document :-

Ext. 1 = isthe FIR
Ext.1(1) = is the signature of informant
Ext. 2 = is the statement of victim girl u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

Ext. 2(1) and 2(2) = are the signatures of the victim girl.

Sd/-

(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
