eCourtIS Copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SESSIONS JUDGE (FTC)::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,
Addl. Sessions Judge (FTC),
Kokrajhar.

SPECIAL CASE NO.9/2018
U/S.363 |I.P.C read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

STATE OF ASSAM
Vs

Sri Munshi Murmu,
S/o Sri Alma Murmu
Vill:- Patharbari,
P.S. Kachugaon.
District :- Kokrajhar

beeeeaes Accused person.

Appearance: -

Learned Counsel for the State Sri Manjit Ghosh, Special P.P
Learned Counsel for the defence Sri Shyam Tudu, Advocate

Charge framed on 10.5.2018

Evidence recorded on 11.7.2018, 26.9.2018, 17.11.2018,

30.11.2018
Argument heard on 14.12.2018
Judgment pronounced on 19.12.2018
UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that on 16.02.2018 one Sri xxxxx,
the father of the victim, lodged a written FIR at Gurufella Police
out-post alleging that on 4.2.2018, while his daughter, the victim
child, was returning home from the house of her maternal uncle Sri
Xxxx, accused Munshi Murmu kidnapped her. The informant also
alleged that he has inquired from the accused Alma Murmu, father
of accused Munshi Murmu, about his daughter but the latter has
been dilly-dallying and has not produced the victim girl despite
repeated requests.

2. On receipt of the FIR, it was sent to Kachugaon Police station for
eCourtIS Copy

registration of a case and accordingly a case under Section 363
IPC was registered and investigated. In the course of investigation,
the statement of victim child was recorded and thereafter, on the
prayer of the Investigating Officer, Section 4 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, (POCSO Act) was added.
After completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was laid
against the accused Munshi Murmu for commission of offence
under Section 363 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. Accused

Alma Murmu was however, not sent up for trial.

. The accused person was in custody. On his production, copies of

the relevant documents were furnished to him and after hearing
both the side charges under Section 363 IPC read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act were framed against him to which he pleaded not
guilty and claimed trial. During the pendency of trial, the case was

transferred to this Court for disposal.

. In the course of trial, prosecution examined 10 (ten) witnesses

including the Investigating Officer and the Medical Officer. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, accused was examined under
Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and
the accused declined to adduce any evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

Whether the accused kidnapped the victim?

Whether the accused committed sexual intercourse with the

victim, a child?
eCourtIS Copy

SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE

. Pw 1 is the victim child and she deposed that he incident took
place on 4.2.2016 at about 3 p.m. She said that she was returning
from the home of her maternal Uncle and at that time the accused
met her on the road and forcibly took her to Udalguri. She also
deposed that accused took her to the house of one of his relative
and committed rape on her. She further deposed that she stayed
at Udalguri, with the accused, for about three weeks, as husband
and wife and thereafter, the father of the accused brought her to
Gurufella. She exhibited her birth certificate, seized by Police as
Ext 2.

. In her cross examination she denied having any love affairs with
the accused. She deposed that after her kidnapping, she came to
Madhyanagar bus stand on foot. She also stated that accused did
not tell him where was he taking her nor did she inquire from the
accused. According to pw 1, she, along-with accused, reached
Udalguri at night. The relatives of the accused, at Udalguri,
inquired about her relationship with the accused to which she
replied that accused had brought her to Udalguri but she does not
love the accused. She also stated that she had given her
statement to the Magistrate and prior to that, accused had told her
to state before the Magistrate that she had love affair with the
accused. She admitted in her cross examination about making a
statement to Police that she loves the accused for the last 2 years.
. Pw 2, Sri xxxxx, is the father of the victim and he deposed that

accused kidnapped his daughter, the victim, at Pathorbari, while
eCourtIS Copy

she was returning from the residence of her maternal Uncle. He
deposed that he inquired with the father of accused and also
searched several places but could not find his daughter. Later,
when the police prevailed upon the father of the accused, the
latter brought back the victim. Pw 2 also deposed that on his
inquiry with his daughter, he learnt that accused had taken her to
Udalguri and there she stayed with the accused as husband and
wife.

8. In cross-examination, he deposed that house of the accused is
opposite to their house. He also stated that there was no love
affair between the accused and his daughter. He denied the
suggestion that because he scolded his daughter she was
compelled to leave his residence.

9. Pw 3, Smt xxxxxxx, is the mother of the victim child. She deposed
that accused, after having kidnapped and forcibly taking the victim
to Udalguri, committed rape on her and stayed with her as
husband and wife. She learnt about this from her daughter.

10.In cross-examination, she stated that there was no love affair
between the accused and the victim child. She denied the
suggestion that accused took the victim child only because the
child insisted.

11.Pw 4, Gita Tirkey, deposed that she heard that accused has
kidnapped the victim child. She deposed that the parents of the
victim could not trace her despite frantic search but after some
days accused Munshi brought the victim to the house of village

headman and thereafter, the accused was handed over to police.
12.

13.

eCourtIS Copy

In cross-examination she deposed that she has personally not seen
the accused kidnapping the victim. She also denied having any
knowledge of love affair between the accused and the victim.

Pw 5 Suniram Hembrom s/o Dendra Hembrom, deposed that he
had heard that accused had kidnapped his niece. He also deposed
that he searched various places but could not find the victim.
Later, the father of the victim approached the police and after few

days, the victim was produced by the accused.

14.In cross-examination he denied having any knowledge of love

L5.

affair between the accused and the victim.

Pw 6, Xxxxx, is the maternal Uncle of the victim. He deposed that
he had requested the victim to take care of his wife on post-natal
issues. The victim was staying in their residence. On 4.2.2018 pw
6, along with his wife, had gone to see a Doctor for their new born
child and in their absence, accused Munshi Murmu came to their
house and took away the victim. Thereafter the accused was
search at various places but could not be found. The victim was
recovered after 10-15 days. Pw 6 also deposed that the victim told

his wife that accused had sexual intercourse with the victim.

16.In cross-examination pw 6 denied the defence suggestion that he

had not stated before the Police that the victim told his wife that
accused had sexual intercourse with the victim. Pw 6 also denied
having any knowledge of love affair between the accused and the
victim. He also denied the suggestion that the victim had
voluntarily gone to the accused because she had love affair with

the accused.
eCourtIS Copy

17.Pw 7 Matal Baskey and pw 8 Shyamal Hasda deposed that accused

18

19

20

21.

22.

had taken away the victim from the house of Hakim Tudu (pw 6)
and in this regard there was a village meeting and an FIR was
lodged against the accused. After few days, the victim was

recovered.

.The cross-examination of pw 7 and pw 8 was declined.

.Pw 9, Sri Mantu Ram Barman, is the Investigating Officer of the

case. He deposed about the usual course of investigation

conducted by him on receipt of the FIR.

.In his cross-examination he stated that victim did not make any

statement to him regarding her whereabouts in between the date
of her kidnapping and recovery. He stated that victim in her
statement under Section 161 CrPC stated that she had voluntarily
left with the residence of her father because her father used to
rebuke her.

Pw 10, Dr. Manisha Boro Phukan is the Investigating Officer of the
case and she deposed that the victim was sent for medical
examination but she refused hence her medical examination was
not done.

DECISION ON POINT (i) WITH REASONS :

Learned defence Counsel argued that trend of the cross
examination of pw 1 would show that she had visited various
places along with the accused and hence, if she wanted to raise an
alarm, about her kidnapping, there was no dearth of opportunities.
Pointing out at the statement of the victim, recorded under Section

164 of CrPC, learned defence Counsel submits that the victim has
23.

24.

25

eCourtIS Copy

clearly stated that she had love affair with the accused and that is
why she eloped with the accused. Thus, learned defence Counsel
argues that ingredients of kidnapping are missing in this case and
the accused deserves to be acquitted.

Learned Special Public Prosecutor, on the other hand, argued that
the victim being a child, her consent is irrelevant hence the
accused be convicted in this case.

Now, Ext 2, the birth certificate of the victim child, establishes
beyond doubt that victim is below 18 years of age, her date of
birth being 15.04.2004. In-fact defence has not even disputed the
age of the victim. In view of the fact that victim is below 18 years
of age her taking away by any person, even it be with the consent
of the victim, would attract the penal provisions of Section 363 of
IPC because the essence of the offence lies in depriving a person

of his right to lawful guardianship of his minor children.

.In State of Haryana v. Rajaram (1973) 1 SCC 544 the Hon'ble

Supreme Court considered the meaning and scope of Section 361
IPC and held that the object of this section seems as much to
protect the minor children from being seduced for improper
purpose as to protect the rights and privileges to guardians having
the lawful charge or custody of their minor wards. The gravamen
of this offence lies in the taking or enticing of a minor under the
ages specified in this section, out of the keeping of the lawful
guardian without the consent of such guardian. The words ‘takes
or entices any minor ... out of the keeping of the lawful guardian of

such minor’ in Section 361, are significant. The use of the word
eCourtIS Copy

‘keeping’ in the context connotes the idea of charge, protection,
maintenance and control: further the guardian's charge and
control appears to be compatible with the independence of action
and movement in the minor, the guardian's protection and control
of the minor being available, whenever necessity arises. On plain
reading of this section the consent of the minor who is taken or
enticed is wholly immaterial: it is only the guardian's consent
which takes the case out of its purview. Nor is it necessary that the
taking or enticing must be shown to have been by means of force
or fraud, persuasion by the accused person which creates
willingness on the part of the minor to be taken out of the keeping
of the lawful guardian would be sufficient to attract the section.

26.In Rajaram (supra), the Hon’ble Supreme Court also approved the
ratio of certain English decisions in which it has been stated that
forwardness on the part of the girl would not avail the person
taking her away from being guilty of the offence in question and
that if by moral force of a willingness is created in the girl to go
away with the former, the offence would be committed unless her
going away is entirely voluntary.

27.The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Rajaram (supra), held that the
principles of English law same seems to be the position under
Indian law. The expression used in Section 361 IPC is “whoever
takes or entices any minor”. The word “takes” does not necessarily
connote taking by force and it is not confined only to use of force,
actual or constructive. This word merely means, “to cause to go”,

“to escort” or “to get into possession”. No doubt it does mean
eCourtIS Copy

physical taking, but not necessarily by use of force or fraud. The
word “entice” seems to involve the idea of inducement or
allurement by giving rise to hope or desire in the other. This can
take many forms, difficult to visualise and describe exhaustively;
some of them may be quite subtle, depending for their success on
the mental state of the person at the time when the inducement is
intended to operate. This may work immediately or it may create
continuous and gradual but imperceptible impression culminating
after some time, in achieving its ultimate purposes of successful
inducement. The two words “takes” and “entices”, as used in
Section 361 IPC are intended to be read together so that each
takes to some extent its colour and content from the other. The
statutory language suggests that if the minor leaves her parental
home completely uninfluenced by any _ promise, offer or
inducement emanating from the guilty party, then the latter
cannot be considered to have committed the offence as defined in
Section 361 IPC. But if the guilty party has laid a foundation by
inducement, allurement or threat, etc. and if this can be
considered to have influenced the minor or weighed with her in
leaving her guardian's custody or keeping and going to the guilty
party, then prima facie it would be difficult for him to plead
innocence on the ground that the minor had voluntarily come to
him. If he had at an earlier stage solicited or induced her in any
manner to leave her father's protection, by conveying or indicating
or encouraging suggestion that he would give her shelter, then the

mere circumstance that his act was not the immediate cause of
10
eCourtIS Copy

her leaving her parental home or guardian's custody would
constitute no valid defence and would not absolve him. The
question truly falls for determination on the facts and
circumstances of each case.

28.In the present case, since the learned Counsel for the defence has
argued that it was the voluntary act of the victim that she went
with the accused, | have examined the statement of the victim
made under Section 164 CrPC. In her statement under Section 164
CrPC, the victim stated that she is in love with the accused which
her parents did not like. She left for Udalguri with the accused and
married him as per their rituals. She lived with the accused as his
wife and had sexual intercourse with him.

29.If the statement under Section 164 CrPC is taken in its entirety
what surfaces is that the initial act of elopoement of the girl from
her residence may be considered to be voluntary and therefore,
the elements of taking or enticing may be missing, but the
subsequent conduct of the accused, in taking the victim to
Udalguri, at a distances of about 300 kilometers, cannot be
without the active participation of the accused. The act of
elopement, thus, cannot be without a previous love affair with the
accused. The accused being a major, there is more responsibility
cast on him regarding the consequences of having an affair with a
minor girl. Hence, his act of taking away the victim to Udalguri
does amount to taking away within the meaning of Section 361
IPC, made punishable under Section 363 IPC.

30.The evidence of the victim has established that she was along with
31.

a2,

a3.

34.

11
eCourtIS Copy

the accused for about 10-15 days. The examination-in-chief of the
victim establishes the fact that victim was taken to Udalguri, by
the accused, without the consent of the parents of pw 1. A reading
of cross examination would further reveal that its trend is more on
the fact that victim had consented to her taking away by the
accused but the taking away of the victim to Udalguri is not
disputed by the defence.

Coupled with the evidence of pw 1, the victim, are the evidence of
pw 2, XxXxxx and pw 3 xxxxx, the parents of the victim. Both these
witnesses have deposed to in categorical terms that accused had
taken away their daughter, pw 1. None of these witnesses have
been cross-examined on the point that victim was never found in
Udalguri.

In the attending facts of this case, the conduct of the accused in
taking away the victim to Udalguri, away from her parents and
without their consent, does make out an offence under Section

363 IPC.

The point No. (i) is decided in affirmative.

 

Coming now to the charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, |
would like to point that Section 29 of the POCSO Act provides that
where a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or
attempting to commit any offence under Sections 3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that such
person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the

offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is proved.
35.

36.

37

12
eCourtIS Copy

Along-side, Section 29 is the provision of Section 30 of the Act
which provides for reverse burden enabling the Court to presume
the existence of culpable mental state.

In Noor Aga v. State of Punjab, (2008) 16 SCC 417 it was
held by the Hon’ble Supreme Court that the provision for reverse
burden is not only provided for under the special Acts but also
under the general statutes like the Penal Code. The Evidence Act
provides for such a burden on an accused in certain matters, as,
for example, under Sections 113-A and 113-B thereof. It further
held that enforcement of law, on the one hand, and protection of
citizen from operation of injustice in the hands of the law
enforcement machinery, on the other, is, thus, required to be
balanced. The constitutionality of a penal provision placing burden
of proof on an accused, thus, must be tested on the anvil of the
State's responsibility to protect innocent citizens. The court must
assess the importance of the right being limited to our society and
this must be weighed against the purpose of the limitation. The
purpose of the limitation is the reason for the law or conduct which

limits the right.

.The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Noor Aga (supra), added that

presumption would operate in the trial of the accused only in the
event the circumstances contained therein are fully satisfied. An
initial burden exists upon the prosecution and only when it stands
satisfied, would the legal burden shift. Even then, the standard of
proof required for the accused to prove his innocence is not as

high as that of the prosecution. Whereas the standard of proof
13
eCourtIS Copy

required to prove the guilt of the accused on the prosecution is
“beyond all reasonable doubt” but it is “preponderance of
probability” on the accused.

38.In the present case, a reading of the evidence of pw 1, reproduced
above, would clearly show that she had sexual intercourse with the
accused. It may be added that even though pw 1 has deposed in a
tenor that accused committed sexual intercourse without her
consent, the evidence of pw 1, when seen from the perspective of
her statement under Section 164 CrPC, as also from the cross
examination, indicates she did not resist the sexual intercourse
with the accused.

39.The cross-examination has not been able to impeach the
testimony of pw 1 that willingly or unwillingly, accused did have
sexual intercourse with the victim. The essence of offence under
Section 3, punishable under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, does not
lie in non-consensual acts, but sexual intercourse with a child, be it
with consent or without consent. Section 3 of the POCSO Act is

reproduced below;

3. Penetrative sexual assault.—A person is said to commit
“penetrative sexual assault” if—

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the
vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the
child to do so with him or any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the
body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or
anus of the child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person; or
14
eCourtIS Copy

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as
to cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or
any part of body of the child or makes the child to do so
with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus,
urethra of the child or makes the child to do so to such
person or any other person.

40.Thus, in view of Section 3 of the POCSO, if sexual intercourse is

41.

established it would be entirely the onus of the accused to
probabilise by convincing evidence that he never had any sexual
intercourse with the victim.

Not only the victim was categorical in her deposition before the
Court that she lived with the accused as husband and wife, she
equally deposed that accused had sexual intercourse with her. This
deposition is sufficient, in view of Section 29 of the Act, to shift the
onus on the accused to establish, at least by preponderance of

probabilities, that he had no occasion to have sex with the victim.

42.The perusal of cross examination shows that onus placed on the

accused under Section 29 of the POCSO was never even

attempted to be discharged.

43.There is one aspect which needs a mention at this juncture. Pw 10,

the Medical Officer, deposed that victim refused medical
examination when so requisitioned by the Investigating Officer. A
medical examination of the victim could have afforded some
reasonable inferences about any of the facts-in-issue involved in
the case. However, the fact remains that medical evidence is after
all opinion evidence--it can never substitute direct oral evidence. A

direct oral evidence, subject to its credibility, always stands on a
15
eCourtIS Copy

higher footing than an opinion evidence. In the present case, the
direct oral evidence convincingly establishes, without adequate
rebuttal from the defence, that accused had sexual intercourse
with the victim during their stay at Udalguri. A reading of Section 3
of the POCSO Act would reveal that consent is absolutely irrelevant
ingredient so far as the evidence under Section 3, made
punishable under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, is concerned.

44.In view of the above discussion, the charge under Section 4 also
succeeds. The point No. (ii) is answered in affirmative.

Probation: -

45.Probation cannot be considered in this case since the offence
under Section 4 of POCSO Act attracts a maximum penalty of
imprisonment for life.

Hearing on sentence: -

46.1 have heard the accused on the point of sentence. The accused
submits that he is only 20 years of age and had no understanding
of the law. The victim sincerely loved her and he never meant any
wrong for the victim. He pleads mercy.

47.| have considered the submissions. The offence under Section 363
IPC attracts a penalty of maximum of seven years of
imprisonment. On the other hand, offence under Section 4 of the
POCSO Act attracts a maximum penalty of imprisonment for life
with a minimum of 7 years of imprisonment.

48.1 am taking into account the peculiar facts of this case. There
remains no doubt that the victim and the accused were

emotionally attached to each other and the evidence on record
16
eCourtIS Copy
establishes this fact. The issue arising herein is that with respect to
applicability of the law, the emotional quotient as well as
consensual acts is rendered irrelevant when it comes to a case of a
girl child below 18 years of age.
49.In the present case, what is missing is criminal intent to defile the
victim for lust. The offence on the part of the accused is borne
more out of emotional aspects than a deliberate criminal act in an
organized manner.
50.1 believe this is a fit case for awarding minimum permissible
sentences on both counts be it under Section 4 of the POCSO Act

or under Section 363 of the IPC.
17
eCourtIS Copy

ORDER
Accused Munshi Murmu is convicted for the offences under
Section 363 IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act. For his
conviction under Section 363 of IPC the accused is
sentenced to a rigorous imprisonment of 3 years with fine of
Rs 1000 in default to simple imprisonment for 2 months.
For his conviction under Section 4 of POCSO Act the accused
is sentenced to a rigorous imprisonment of 7 years with fine
of Rs 1000 in default to simple imprisonment for 2 months.
Both the sentences shall run concurrently. The detention
undergone during trial shall be set-off from the substantive
sentence.
A free copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused

Given under the hand and seal of this Court

Dictated by

Addl Sessions Judge (FTC) Addl Sessions Judge (FTC)
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
18
eCourtIS Copy

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES
PW 1 Victim
Pw 2 Father of the victim
Pw 3 Mother of the victim
Pw 4 Smt Gita Tirkey
Pw 5 Sri Suniram Hembrom
Pw 6 Maternal uncle of the victim
Pw 7 Sri Matal Baskey
Pw 8 Sri Shyamal Hasda
Pw 9 S.I Mantu Ram Barman, Investigating Officer
Pw 10 Dr. Manisha Boro Phukan
PROSECUTION EXHIBIT: -
Ext 1 Statement under Section 164 CrPC
Ext 2 Birth Certificate
Ext 3 Chargesheet
Ext 4 Sketch-map
DEFENCE EVIDENCE

Nil
COURT EVIDENCE

Nil

Addl Sessions Judge (FTC)
Kokrajhar
