Page 1 of 8

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, DARRANG,MANGALDAI.

 

Spl(POCSO) Case No.2 of 2016.
(U/S : 376(2)(i) & 377 I.P.C. read
with Section 4 of POCSO Act)

State
-Versus-
Sri Lakhi Ram Deka
S/O Sri Dandi Ram Deka
Village -No.2 Kopati grant
P.S- Dalgaon,
Dist-Darrang (Assam)
-- Accused.

PRESENT: Sri P.K.Bora,A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge.
Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPERANCE:

Learned advocate for the State : Mr.Premeswar Sarma.
AND

Learned advocate for the accused :Mr. Hemanta Sarma
Evidence recorded on :01/08/17, 16/11/17, 25/04/18,

03/01/18, 01/02/19, 09/04/19
Argument heard on :25/09/2019

Judgment delivered on :03/10/2019.
Page 2 of 8

JUDGMENT:
The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 09/07/2015 one Miss Safia
Khatun lodged an FIR before the O/C Dalgaon Police Station stating that
on 03/07/2015 at about 3 p.m. her 9 years old daughter Miss X was
intercepted by the accused while the former was on her way to sell log in
the Kopati daily market and she was told by the accused that he would
buy log from her and thereby he took her side of the road and she was
raped leaving injury on her vagina. It is also mentioned in the FIR that
due to intervention of the villager to settle the matter the lodging of FIR

was delayed.

Having received the ejahar, Police registered a case and one Someswar
Konwar, S.I. of Police was entrusted to investigate the matter. During the
course of investigation besides recording the statement of the witnesses,
the statement of the victim was recorded in the court and she was also
medically examined in Mangaldai Civil Hospital. Finally, the I.0. has
submitted charge sheet against the accused U/S 376(2)(g) IPC read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act.

The committing Magistrate committed the case to this Court for disposal

of the case.

On appearance of the accused before this Court, the learned advocates
were heard on the point of charge. A prima-facie case against the
accused person U/S 376(2)(i) I.P.C. read with Section 4 of POCSO Act and
U/S 377 I.P.C. found and the written charge U/S 376(2)(i) read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act and 377 I.P.C. explained and read over to the

accused to which the accused pleaded not guilty.

Point for determination:

Whether on 03/07/15 at 3 p.m. the accused committed rape of a minor
girl Miss X and thereby committed an offence U/S 376(2)(i) I.P.C. read
with Section 4 of POCSO Act?
Page 3 of 8

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same date, place and_ time

10.

committed carnal intercourse against the order of nature with the victim
Miss X?

REASONS AND DECISION THEREON
In the course of trial, the prosecution examined Dr. Ajanta Bordoloi(PW1),
PW2 Arfan Ali, PW3 Saharu Kandula, PW4 Miss X, PW5 Sairuddin, PW6

Safiya Khatun and PW7 Someswar Konwar.

PW1 has stated in her evidence that on 09/07/2015 on Police requisition
she examined Miss X aged 9 years and found no spermatozoa in the
vaginal swab examination and as per the radio logical examination her
age was 10 to 12 years. Dr. Bordoloi also did not find evidence of recent
sexual intercourse and five nos. of old stitches found in perineum

region of the victim.

PW2 Arfan Ali, maternal uncle of the victim has stated in his evidence that
on the next day of the incident he learnt about the incident from one
Fajal Ali. Thereafter, he went to her sister's house, but he did not find his
sister and her victim daughter in the house. At that time they were at
Dalgaon Police Station. Thereafter, he along with some other persons
went to the Dalgaon Police Station. He was not examined by the I.O.

during investigation.

PW3 Saharu Kandula knew nothing about the incident.

PW4 victim Miss X has stated that on the day of the incident at about 3
p.m. while she was carrying wood for sale at Kopati bazaar she came
acrossed with accused Lakhiram Deka who told her that he would
purchase wood from her. Then she was taken to a nearby jungle and she
was raped there. Thereafter, the accused took her to the road and in the
meantime she met her father. She proceeded with her father to her

house. Reaching her house she narrated the incident to her mother.
11.

12.

13.

Page 4 of 8

PW5 Sairuddin, father of the victim has stated that on the day of the
incident her two daughters namely Miss X and Azida_ went out to collect
fire wood from a nearby place. After sometimes Azida came and told him
that Miss X was taken by one person and he also driven her away.
Therefore, he went out in search of Miss X. On the same day at about 7
p.m. Miss X came home with her blood stained cloth. When inquired Miss
X narrated that on the previous day she was raped by one person. She
learnt from one Siddik that he saw Miss X and Lakhiram at a time and the

accused taken Miss X.

PW6 Safiya Khatun, mother of the victim has stated that on the day of
the incident her daughter Miss X and Azida went out to sell wood. In the
evening at 6 p.m. Azida came home and told her that Miss X was taken
by the accused Lakhiram. That after sometime Miss X returned. She told
her that Lakhiram raped her. She went with Miss X to the place where
Miss X was raped and from that place, they recovered Lakhi Ram's sandal
and cloth. Thereafter, Lakhi Ram came to her house and proposed for a
compromise, but she refused. After 3 days from the date of incident an

FIR was lodged.

In her cross-examination, she asked one Khadimul to write an FIR
regarding an incident, but Khadimul told her that by disclosing the facts in
such a way Miss X would not get medical facility. He advised that if Miss
X was shown that she sustained injury on falling in the latrine then she
would get the medical facility. Therefore, she along with Khadimul and
Miss X went to Bahbari Dispensary and Miss X got medical treatment
there. Thereafter, they went to Dalgaon Police Station. In the Dalgaon
Police Station a Mohora wrote the FIR. When she came out in search of
Miss X she found Miss X sitting on the road. At that time she was
weeping. She was asked why she was weeping, but she did not reply. On
the following day morning Miss X was found sitting here and there and
she also had temperature. When she was again asked then she told that
she was raped by Lakhiram on the previous day under a bamboo grove.

Thereafter, mother of the accused approached them for settlement, but
14.

15.

16.

17.

Page 5 of 8

they opposed the settlement. In her cross-examination, she also stated
that the villagers of her village asked for a land from the father of
Lakhiram to construct a Mazjid , but Lakhiram's father declined to offer

land for construction of a Maszid.

PW7 Someswar Konwar has stated that he was entrusted to investigate
the case by the O/C, Dalgaon Police Station. Thereafter, he went to the
place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the
victim to doctor and collected the medical examination report and he

finally submitted charge sheet against the accused.

The accused person denied the indictments.

Heard argument advanced by the learned counsel for the sides.

On a meticulous examination of the evidence advanced by the
prosecution witnesses, it is seen that there are different stories which
crept up in their evidence and the facts stated by the prosecution
witnesses do not meet in one point. PW1 Arfan Ali, who is the maternal
uncle of the victim learnt from villagers by one Ataful and Kurban that on
the pretext of buying fire wood from the victim he took the victim to his
house and raped there. This is one set of facts. PW5 Sairuddin, who is the
father of victim Miss X is that on the day of the incident though her sister
namely Miss X and Azida went out to collect fire wood from nearby place
Azida came soon and informed him that Miss X was taken by person. He
went out in search of Miss X, but did not find her. At 7 p.m. Miss X came.
On the following day her mother discovered blood in her wearing cloth.
When inquired Miss X told that she was raped by one person on previous
day. One Siddik told him that he saw Miss X being taken away by Lakhi
Ram on the day of the incident. PW6 Safiya Khatun, wife of PW5
Sairuddin also stated a different way on her evidence. She stated that on
the day of the incident Miss X and Azida went out to sell wood. Azida
returned and informed her that Miss X was taken by Lakhiram Deka. After

sometime Miss X came and informed her that Lakhiram Deka had raped
18.

19.

Page 6 of 8

her. Thereafter, she went to the place of occurrence with Miss X and

recovered sandal and cloth of accused Lakhi Ram.

PW6 is the informant. In her evidence she admitted that after 3 days
from the date of incident he lodged the FIR, but in her evidence she did
not state why the delay was caused. It has come in her evidence that
Miss X was taken to Bahbari Hospital. Thereafter, she attended Dalgaon
P.S. and thereafter, an FIR was lodged against the accused. It was
advised to her by one Khadimul that Miss X would not get medical
treatment if real fact is disclosed. So, she was advised by Khadimul that
to get a medical treatment at Bahbari hospital Miss X should be shown to
have received injury by falling in the latrine. PW5 and PW6 are husband
and wife. The fact stated by PW6 did not come in the evidence of her
husband (PW5). According to the PW5 on the following day victim's
mother discovered blood in the cloth worn by the victim and when
inquired she told that she was raped by one person and it was Siddik,
who told that he saw Miss X being taken away by Lakhi Ram Deka on the
date of the incident. The victim who was examined as PW4 has stated
that on the day of the incident at about 3 p.m. while she was carrying
wood for sale to Kopati bazaar she met Lakhiram, who expressed his
intention to buy wood and thereafter she was taken to nearby jungle
where she was raped by Lakhiram by closing her moth with his "genji".
Thereafter, the accused brought her to the road and in the meantime she
met her father and reaching her home, she informed about the incident
to her mother. From the evidence of the victim,(Miss X), it is seen that
she knew accused Lakhiram Deka before, but in her father's evidence, it

has come that the name of the accused was known to victim Miss X.

It is seen that the crux of the evidence advanced by the vital witnesses is
deviated from each other to a great extent. If we discard the evidence of
other witnesses and take only the evidence of victim Miss X(PW4), then
also some unanswered question will be there. The evidence of a witness
has to be considered with its entirety. She stated that she was on her way

to sell wood she met Lakhiram. She was taken to a nearby jungle and she
20.

21.

Page 7 of 8

was raped. Thereafter, she was taken to a road. Thereafter, she met her
father. She did not disclose about the incident to her father. She went
with her father, but she did not disclose anything to her father. The victim
is a young girl. She is allegedly raped by matured person. Definitely she
got a bitter and painful experience. After the incident she met her father.
It is not expected that a young girl would say nothing to a person which
is none but her father about the incident. If she was raped she had
definitely had a mode to get the matter disclosed so that the offender
would not escape and the offender be caught and handed over to Police.
But the victim did nothing. The other witnesses also did not support her

evidence so far the facts after the alleged incident of rape are concerned.

The direct evidence may not be available. In such case court relies
available circumstantial evidence. It is held in Bijoy Kumar Arora -VS-
State Govt. of NCT of Delhi reported in (2010) 2 SCC 353 that —
The law relating to the circumstantial evidence is well settled. In dealing
with circumstantial evidence, there is always a danger that conjecture or
suspicion lingering on mind may take place of proof. Suspicion, however,
strong cannot be allowed to take place of proof and ,therefore, the court
has to be watchful and ensure that conjectures and suspicions do not
take place of legal proof. However, it is no derogation of evidence to say
that it is circumstantial. Human agency may be faulty in expressing
picturisation of actual event, but the circumstances cannot fail. Therefore,
many a time it is aptly said that " men may tell lies, but circumstances
do not". In cases where evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the
circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should,
in the first instance, be the fully established. Each fact sought to be

relied must be proved individually.

In our case, the facts that came in the evidence of the prosecution
witnesses are failed to give a common incident and the facts pulled
apart each making the whole evidence of each witness except the formal

witnesses unreliable and untrustworthy.
22.

23.

Page 8 of 8

In the result, the accused deserves benefit of doubt. Thus, the accused
Lakhiram Deka is acquitted for want of credible evidence. He is set at
liberty forthwith.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court this 3 day of October,2019.

(P.K.Bora)
Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
Dictated and corrected by me.

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPENDIX:

(A)Prosecution witnesses:

(i)PW1 Dr. Ajanta Bordoloi
(ii)PW2 Arfan Ali,

(iii)PW3 Saharu Kandula
(iv)PW4 Miss X

(v)PW5 Sairuddin

(vi)PW6 Safiya Khatun
(vii)P\W7Someswar Konwar

(B)Defense witness: Nil.

(C)Exhibits:

(i)Ext.1 medical report
(ii)Ext.2 FIR

(iii)Ext.3 sketch map
(iv)Ext.4 charge sheet

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
