1
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. CASE NO. 29 OF 2017
Under Section 366(A)/376(2)(1) I.P.C.

Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-versus-

Md. Rafiqul Islam _ ... Accused.

APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Mr. A. Kayem, learned PP.
For the accused : Mr. N.M.H Rahman, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 21.12.2017,06.01.2018,06.02.2018
Argument heard on : 06.02.2018
Judgment delivered on : 06.02.2018.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that on 11-04-2016 at about
9.00 P.M.,accused Rafiqul Islam kidnapped Jesmina Khatun aged about
15 years assuring to marry her and made co-habitation with her.
Coming to know about the occurrence Manik Uddin father of accused
Rafiqul armed with a dagger attempted to kill the victim. Out of fear
the victim took shelter in the house of one Mayej Uddin but in his
house also Manik Uddin assaulted her. Hearing the shouting
neighboring people arrived at the place of occurrence and they rescued
the victim and handed over to her father. Accordingly the father of the
victim Asim Uddin lodged an F.I.R on 18.04.16.
2

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against accused Md. Rafiqul Islam U/S 366-A/376(2)(1) I.P.C read
with section 4 of POCSO Act.
3. The accused person appeared before this court and faced trial.
copies are furnished to him. Charges are framed against the accused
person U/S 366-A/376(2)(1) read with section 4 of POCSO Act. Charges
are read over and clearly explained to the accused person to which he
has pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.
4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined as many as
three witnesses including the M/O. Examination of the accused person
under section 313 Cr.P.C is dispensed with. The accused person
declines to adduce' evidence.
5. Points for determination:-
(1) | Whether the accused person on 11-04-2016 at about 9.30 P.M. at
Dimarpur, within the jurisdiction of Kalgachia Police Station,District
Barpeta, kidnapped Jesmina Khatun, daughter of informant Asim Uddin
with intent that she might be compelled to marry him against her will
or knowing to be likely that she might be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse by means of criminal intimidation or by any other method,
to go from any place with intent that she might be forced or seduced to
illicit intercourse with any other person ?
(2) | Whether the accused person on the same date,time and place
committed rape on the victim Jesmina Khatun, aged about 15 years,
daughter of informant Asim Uddin by committing penetrative sexual
assault ?

Decision and reasons thereof:
6. The allegation against the accused person as narrated in the FIR
is that on 11.04.2016 at about 9 PM., he kidnapped the victim aged
about 15 years assuring to marry her and keeping her in his house
made sexual intercourse with her. The victim was recovered on the
Same _ night and handed over to her guardian on the next morning.
The Medical Officer who has examined the victim on 19.04.2016 has
opined that :-
3

There iS no sign of sexual intercourse, but the victim is
accustomed to sexual intercourse.

There is no sign detected.

There is no injury mark on her private parts.

Victim is not suffering from any physical or mental disability.

There is no foreign particle on her cloth/body.

The Medical Officer has not framed any opinion regarding the

age of the victim.
7. The father of the victim who is the informant of this case as PW3
has mentioned her age as 18 years at the time of occurrence. He has
deposed that without informing him the victim had gone to the house
of the accused. They loved each other. Thereafter the victim returned
home alone. Out of suspicion he lodged the F.Il.R against accused
person. After the occurrence the victim got married with another boy.
The matter was already settled by the ,Samaj'. He is not willing to
proceed the case.

In his cross examination he has admitted that at the time of

occurrence he was not at home. He was at Udmari. The F.l.R was
written by somebody else. He put his signature only. He does not know
what is written in the FIR.
8. The victim as PW1 has corroborated the statement of her father
by stating that on the date of occurrence she had gone to the house of
the accused without informing her father. But the accused and his
parents did not allow her to stay there. Without knowing the real fact
her father lodged the F.I.R. However, later on he came to know the
actual fact.

In her cross examination she has stated that just after the
occurrence she was married by Mufa Sheikh Ali by executing
Kabinnama. In the Kabinnama her age was mentioned as 18 years.
Prior to the occurrence she had love affairs with Rafiqul and she had
gone with him at her own will. The accused person did not do any illicit
act with her. She made the statement before the magistrate as tutored
by the police. At the time of occurrence her father was at Udmari and
4

without knowing the real fact he lodged the F.I.R. In fact no occurrence
took place as narrated in the F.I.R. Accused Rafiqul is not guilty.
9. On the basis of above facts and circumstances and the
evidences on record it is found that none of the prosecution witnesses
has supported the case of the F.I.R. Both the informant and the victim
have stated that at the time of occurrence her age was 18 years and
love affairs was going on in between the accused and the victim. The
victim has clearly stated that she had gone to the house of the accused
at her own will and accused did not do any illicit act with her. Hence, it
is crystal clear that the prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt
of the accused person for any offence. Therefore, the accused person is
acquitted and set at liberty.
10. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
extended for another period of six months from the date of this
judgment under section 437-A Cr.P.C.
11. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section
365 Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 6" day of
February,2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
APPENDIX

(A)Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1 ‘Statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 CrPC.
Ext.1(1), Ext.1(2)
& Ext.1(3) :Sigs. of Jesmina Khatun..

Ext.2 : Medical Report.
Ext.2(1) :Sig. of Dr. A. Boro.
Ext.3 : Ejahar.

Ext.3(1) : Sig. of Asimuddin.
(C)Exhibits produced by witnesses:Nil.
(D)Court Exhibits:Nil.

(E)Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 : Jesmina Khatun.
P.W.2 : Dr. Anima Boro.
P.W.3 : Ashimuddin

(F)Defence witnesses:Nil.

(G)Court witnesses:Nil.
Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta
