Page 1 of 11

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 7/14

Informant: Smti. Ratna Rai,
W/o- Sri Kamal Rai,
R/o- Nogajan,
PS- Duliajan,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Nipen Bora,
S/o- Late Dhareswar Bora,
R/o- Moran Lengrai,
PS- Moran,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri S. Seal, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 11

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 7/14
G.R. Case No. 780/14

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Nipen Bora

Charge u/S 8 PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 08-05-15, 08-07-15 & 25-04-16.
Date of argument : 11-06-15.
Date of Judgment —_: 25-05-16.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that the accused Sri Nipen Borah, who is a Home Guard
personnel, on 26-03-14 committed sexual assault upon the prosecutrix who is
a child of 7 (seven) years. The mother of the prosecutrix lodged the Ext. FIR
on 26-03-14 and upon registration of a police case, investigation commenced.
In course of such investigation, the Investigating Officer recorded the
statement of witnesses, visited the place of occurrence and arrested the
accused person, got the prosecutrix medically examined and on completion of
investigation, submitted Charge-Sheet.
Upon committal, my learned predecessor framed charge under Section 8
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (hereinafter PCSO Act)
against the accused person and the charge was read over and explained to
the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined six witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Sri S. Seal, learned counsel
for the defence.
POINT FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the accused person sexually assault or sexually molest her or

harass her in any manner?
Page 3 of 11

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

5)

6)

7)

8)

The prosecutrix was examined as PW-1. She stated her age to be 7 (seven)
years, which is not disputed by the defence and therefore, she is a child
within the meaning of the PCSO Act. Before her examination, certain
questions were put to her to test her intelligence and understanding and on
being satisfied that she could give rational answers, her evidence was
recorded.

PW-1 deposed that she knew the accused person and identified him by his
photograph. She deposed that at the time of occurrence, she was playing in
her house, her mother being present. The accused came towards her and
called her from a nearby distance and displayed his penis by opening his
pant. She started to cry out of fear and ran towards her mother and told her
about it. Thereafter, the accused left towards the road. During cross-
examination, PW-1 deposed that at the time of occurrence, her mother, her
younger sister and her aunt were present in the house. She denied the
defence suggestion that she deposed falsely against the accused as tutored
by her mother. She further deposed that many other persons are residing
near her house, but she cannot say their names, but she knows the names of
her school teacher. In her statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC before
the learned Magistrate, she had stated that an old man Dodo’came to their
house while she was with her mother and called her to the backside of her
house and after that he pulled down his pant and showed her his penis.
However, during cross-examination, she stated that the date on which she
came to the Court with her mother and others, they tutored her as to what
she would have to say before the Magistrate. She also stated that her parents
have accompanied her to the Court (on the date of recording her evidence at
the trial) and they had tutored her what she has to say before the Court and
she has deposed accordingly. On clarification sought by the Court, the child
witness appeared to be confused.

In view of the fact that the PW-1 has admitted in her cross-examination,
regarding having been tutored what to say before the Magistrate as well as
before the Court, some difficulties have arisen in accepting her version at
face value.

PW-2, the mother of the prosecutrix deposed that on the day of occurrence,
9)

Page 4 of 11

at about 2/3 pm, while she was in her house, her younger daughter was
crying due to her ailment and then the accused came to their house and
asked whether there is any person in their house and also asked for Sada.
PW-2 further deposed that she gave him a stool to sit and also gave him
sada. Her victim daughter was playing in the house and PW-2 was busy with
my younger daughter as she was crying. PW-2 further deposed that after
some time, her elder daughter (prosecutrix) raised hue and cry and she
rushed to her and saw that the accused was holding her shoulder with his
two hands from her backside and seeing PW-2 the accused left her daughter
and fled from the place of occurrence. PW-2 further deposed that on being
asked, prosecutrix told her grandmother that the accused showed his penis
by opening his pant in front of her. She further stated that the village people
found the accused in the house of Sri Bipul Gogoi and policed arrived and
took him under their custody. During cross-examination, she stated that she
can read the Assamese language. It was then put to her by the defence that
it was written in the ejahar as follows: (Translated)
"On the day of occurrence, at about 2/3 pm, in the afternoon,
While I was in my house, my younger daughter was crying due to her
ailment. Then the accused came to our house and asked as to whether or
not there is any person in our house. He also asked for Sada. Then I gave
him a stool to sit. I also gave him sada. My victim daughter after coming
from her school, was playing in the house. I was busy with my younger
daughter as she was crying. After some time, my elder daughter
prosecutrix raised hue and cry and then I rushed to her and saw that the
accused was holding on her shoulder with his two hands from her
backside. Seeing me, the accused left my daughter and fled from the
place of occurrence.”
PW-2 however denied that the same was written in the ejahar.
A perusal of the FIR shows that what is actually written therein is that on
26-03-14, at around 2:30 pm, the accused Sri Nipen Borah pulled and pushed
the prosecutrix behind her house in an attempt to commit sexual assault and
at that time, the prosecutrix raised hue and cry and her mother, i.e., PW-2
intervened and village people gathered there whereafter one Sri Babul Gogoi,
a co-villager gave shelter to the accused and threatened the village people

with a dao.
Page 5 of 11

10) The most specific and vital allegation against the accused person is that he
displayed his penis before the prosecutrix, but the said fact find no mention
in the FIR which, according to PW-2 was read over and explained to her
whereafter she put her signature therein. It is trite to mention here that an
FIR is not an encyclopedia of all the facts of a case, but it is equally true that
the FIR is the foundation of the criminal case and omission to mention the
most vital fact of a case therein by one who claims to have knowledge of the
facts gives rise to ample suspicion regarding the truthfulness of the contents
of the FIR. Consequently, the claim made by the PW-2 that the prosecutrix
told her or her mother-in-law that the accused showed his penis by opening
his pant in front of her, cannot be believed without corroboration.

11) During further cross-examination, PW-2 denied having admitted to state
before the police that while she was busy with her younger daughter, her
elder daughter, i.e., the prosecutrix raised hue and cry and then PW-2 rushed
towards her and saw that the accused was holding her shoulder with his two
hands from her backside and seeing her, the accused left her daughter and
fled from the place of occurrence. Therefore, even in her alleged statement
before the police, there is no illusion about the accused having showed his
penis to the prosecutrix. Moreover, although the PW-2 mentioned one Sri
Babul Gogoi as having sheltered the accused, he was neither made an
accused nor a prosecution witness. The Investigating Officer during cross-
examination confirmed the aforesaid omission and therefore, PW-2 cannot be
regarded as a reliable witness.

12) PW-4 Smti. Alina Ekka deposed that the alleged incident took place about
one year back and at the time of occurrence, she was sitting in the garden,
basking in the sun and at that time, her sister-in-law, i.e., the mother of the
prosecutrix raised hue and cry and she went to her, but did not know
anything regarding the incident. It is quite surprising to find that the mother
of the prosecutrix did not narrate anything about the occurrence to her sister-
in-law, i.e., PW-4 although she allegedly appeared at the place of occurrence
immediately after the alleged occurrence.

13)PW-3 Sri Indra Bahadur Rai, the grandfather of the prosecutrix and PW-5
Smti. Manisha Tamang did not see the occurrence and nor did they hear
anything from the prosecutrix and their evidence must be treated as hearsay.

14) PW-6 Bishwajyoti Sharma, Sub Inspector of Police deposed that on getting
Page 6 of 11

the information, he rushed to the place of occurrence with his staff and saw
that the accused person was being assaulted by a crowd whereafter police
recovered and rescued the accused person, who had suffered grievous
injuries and accordingly, was sent to hospital. During cross-examination, the
Investigating Officer stated that he recovered the accused from the house of
Sri Bipul Gogoi outside which the people were assaulting the accused, but he
did not record the statement of said Sri Bipul Gogoi and his family members.
He further stated that he lodged an ejahar against the persons, who had
assaulted the accused person and on the basis of the same, Duliajan Police
Station Case No. 105/14 was registered.

15)Mr. S Seal, learned defence counsel, apart from pointing out many infirmities
and contradictions in the prosecution case as indicated above, has drawn
attention of the Court to the deposition of the Investigating Officer during
cross-examination wherein he has stated that there are OIL Pipe Lines near
the place of occurrence and to control the incident of theft, a Security Camp
was set up near the place of occurrence. The security personnel of the said
camp used to apprehend the oil thieves and hand them over to police. It may
be noted that the accused person was the In-Charge of the said Security
Camp, as it appears from the deposition of the Investigating Officer during
cross-examination. Furthermore, the PW-3 also stated during cross-
examination that lots of occurrences of theft of material belonging to Oil
India Limited used to take place in the locality and police often used to arrest
local persons in this regard. During cross-examination of PW-2, it was put to
her that at the time of occurrence, Sri Bhupen Baruah, Sri Dhruba Konwar, Sri
Santu Gogoi, Sri Pranjal Saikia and Sri Arup Bora were arrested by police from
her house, which she denied. She also denied the defence suggestion that
her husband was involved with the act of cutting pipe lines belonging to Oil
India Limited and that being sought by the police in the aforesaid pipeline
cutting case, they have falsely implicated the accused in the present case.
She also denied that her husband was involved with the theft of oil pipes and
that he was evading arrest by the police. The Investigating Officer stated that
on 26-03-14, a case being Duliajan Police Station Case No. 103/14 under
Section 379 IPC was registered, but he did not know whether the husband of
the complainant and his other family members were involved with the said

case. The Investigating Officer further denied the suggestion that he could
Page 7 of 11

not record the statement of said persons as they were absconding and that
he had purposefully suppressed the fact in his case diary. The fact, however,
remains that the Investigating Officer did not examine the father of the
prosecutrix, i.e., husband of the complainant which provides a ring of truth to
the defence version that he was on the run.

16) The accused stated in his statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC that he
was posted at Nagajan Camp. The people of the locality were always involved
with the theft of OIL property like oil, steel, etc., and he caught them many
times earlier. The father of the alleged victim was also involved with those
activities. On 25-03-14, some persons were arrested in connection with
Duliajan Police Station Case No. 103/14 for theft of OIL property. Whenever
the men folk are arrested, womenfolk would come rushing and surrounded
the camp and threaten them. On 26-03-14, i.e., the date of alleged incident,
when he was on duty at Nagajan and so moving on the road, Sri Kamal Rai
and his wife Smti. Ratna Rai along with some of their associates attacked him
on the road and dragged him to their house and caused grievous injury to his
person and at last, he became on conscious. He was rescued by police of
Bhadoi Police Outpost and he was hospitalized in Duliajan OIL Hospital and
thereafter, to AMCH, Dibrugarh. In fact, he recovered consciousness in AMCH,
Dibrugarh. He further stated that allegations are false and motivated and he
was innocent.

17) The accused person also adduced evidence and was examined as DW-1. He
deposed that since prior to the alleged incident, he was posted at Nagajan Oil
Security Camp under Duliajan Police Station. On the day of occurrence, while
he was on duty, he received a phone call from the Duliajan Police Station to
the effect that regarding the incident of theft of OIL pipe, he would have to
go to the house of one Sri Bipul Gogoi for inquiry. Getting the phone call, he
went to the house of Sri Bipul Gogoi and was interrogating Sri Bipul Gogoi.
He further stated that on prior occasions also, incident of theft of OIL Pipe,
condensate oil, etc., was going on in the said locality and DW-1 and his staff
often used to apprehend the local persons regarding the theft. On the day of
occurrence, while he was interrogating Sri Bipul Gogoi about the theft
incident of OIL properties, the villagers involved with the incident of theft of
OIL Pipe and condensate oil, cordoned off the house of Sri Bipul Gogoi and

started to assault him badly and as a result, he became unconscious. Due to
Page 8 of 11

the assault made by the villagers, he sustained injuries on various parts of his
body including the neck. Later on, police personnel of Duliajan Police Station
arrived on the spot and recovered him. At first, he was taken to Duliajan OIL
Hospital for check-up and thereafter, he was taken to Assam Medical College
& Hospital, Dibrugarh for better treatment as his injuries were found to be
grievous where he had to stay for about 20 (twenty) days. He further stated
that the documents pertaining to the treatment of his injuries at Assam
Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh were available with police. Later on, he
came to know that police had arrested some of the persons who had
assaulted him and cases were registered vide Duliajan PS Case No. 103/14
under Section 379 IPC & Duliajan PS Case No. 105/14 under Sections
147/149/353/325/326/427/34 IPC against them. Ext. A contains certified
copies pertaining to Duliajan PS Case No. 103/14 corresponding to GR Case
No. 773/14 containing 36 pages. Ext. B is the case record of Duliajan PS Case
No. 105/14 containing 19 pages in total. He stated that Sri Bhupen Saikia, Sri
Dhruba Konwar, Sri Indra Bahadur Rai, Sri Kamal Rai, Sri Ujjal Saikia, Sri Arup
Baruah were among the villagers who had assaulted him in the house of Sri
Bipul Gogoi and caused grievous injuries on his person. As cases were filed
against the above mentioned persons and others for assaulting him in the
house of Sri Bipul Gogoi, so the instant case was filed later on against him
implicating him with the offence. During cross-examination, the prosecution
only gave suggestion to the DW-1 with a view to discredit his evidence. The
above version of the DW-1/accused is consistent with the various suggestions
given the PWs to the effect that the informant side falsely implicated the
accused person as they were involved with theft of OIL materials.

18) It also appears from the Ext. A exhibited by DW-1 which is a bunch of
certified copies of GR Case No. 773/14 corresponding to Duliajan PS Case No.
103/14 under Section 379 IPC that a First Information Report was lodged on
25-03-14 at the Duliajan Police Station by the Company Commander
(Industrial), CISF Unit, OIL, Duliajan regarding theft of materials belonging to
Oil India Limited and as per connected forwarding report, the name of the
accused persons in the said case are Bhupen Baruah, Dhruba Konwar, Santu
Gogoi, Pranjal Saikia and Arup Bora. Out of them, the names of Dhruba
Konwar, Arup Bora are mentioned by DW-1 as the persons who had assaulted

him. It may be noted that the First Information Report of the present case
Page 9 of 11

was lodged on the following day, i.e., 26-03-14. But there is no mention of
the father of the prosecutrix Kamal Rai in the First Information Report of
Duliajan PS Case No. 103/14 or in the Forwarding Report of the said case.
Defence Ext. B contains the certified copy of the First Information Report of
Duliajan PS Case No. 105/14 lodged on 26-03-14, i.e., the date of alleged
occurrence of the’ present case’ registered under Sections
147/149/341/353/325/336/427 IPC wherein the assault on the accused
person made by the villages is noted by the informant SI Bishwajyoti Sharma,
In-Charge of Bhadoi Police Outpost, but no mention of the individual accused
has been stated therein. In the said case, subsequent Final Report has been
submitted by the Investigating Officer vide Ext. A. In the notice to the
informant (Ext. A) certified copy, it is stated that the case is true, but no clue
had been found. A series of Injury Reports issued by the OIL Hospital,
Duliajan, certified copy of which have been also made part of Ext. A shows
that a number of police personnel, namely, JJ Baruah (SI), Mohibul Ali (ABC-
347), Prafulla Gogoi (UBC-264), Poli Gogoi (HG), Jyotish Choudhury (CN-
188), Podmoram Pasung (NK-527) and the accused Nipen Bora sustained
injuries in the said occurrence. The Investigating Officer of the present case
PW-6 also corroborated the incident of assault on the accused person and
police personnel

19)From the materials brought forwarded by the defence and also from the
deposition of the Investigating Officer, it thus appear that incident of theft of
OIL materials used to take place in the locality and that the accused was In-
Charge of the Security Camp which was tasked with the detection and
prevention of such theft. It is also established that the accused along with
other police personnel were injured in a mob attack that took place on the
alleged date of occurrence where it is possible that such attack took place as
a reaction to the offence allegedly committed by the accused, it is also not
improbable that the same was an act of gratuitous violence by persons
involved in theft of OIL materials.

20) PW-2 mother of the prosecutrix had deposed that she along with her mother-
in-law went to the nearby Home Guard Camp and reported the matter and
further, her husband on getting the information over phone went to the Home
Guard Camp and reported the matter. But the Investigating Officer did not

examine anybody from the said Camp, nor did he examine the husband of
Page 10 of 11

PW-2. There is no explanation as to why none from the informant side went
straight to the police.

21) But regardless of the story set up by the defence, the fact remains that the
prosecutrix herself cannot be regarded as a credible or reliable witness in
view of the fact that her version before the Court as well as before the
Magistrate are admittedly tutored ones and PW-2, the mother of the
prosecutrix for reasons already discussed cannot be regarded as a reliable
witness either. The sister-in-law of PW-2 who immediately came to the place
of occurrence deposed that she did not know anything regarding the incident
and mother-in-law of PW-2 who also allegedly arrived immediately after the
occurrence was never examined by the Investigating Officer and was not
made a prosecution witness.

22) Considering as a whole, a good number of omissions and contradictions in
the prosecution evidence has come to the fore, casting sufficient doubt on
the prosecution story and possibility of false implication cannot be ruled out
in the present case. In view of the above, it cannot be said that the
prosecution has established that the accused person committed sexual
assault upon the prosecutrix and the point is answered accordingly.

23)In the result, I hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its case
beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused person is acquitted
of the offence under Section 8 PCSO Act and he be set at liberty forthwith.

24) The bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6 (six) months
under Section 437-A CrPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 25" day of May,

2016.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 11 of 11

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
(1) PW-1 XXXXx;
(2) PW-2 XXXX;
(3) PW-3 XXXX;
(4) PW-4 Smti. Alina Ekka;
(5) PW-5 Smti. Manisha Tamang;
(6) PW-6 SI Bishwajyoti Sharma;
(7) DW-1 Sri Nipen Bora.
List of Exhibits:
(1) Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
(2) Ext. 2 Ejahar;
(3) Ext. 3 Sketch-Map;
(4) Ext. 4 Medico-legal Report; and
(5) Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.
List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
