|

IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE...... BUNT.
Present: N.U. Ahmed,
Special Judge,
Bijni.

Special(P) case No.44/2018
Under section 8 of the POCSO Act.

THE STATE OF ASSAM

-VS ~

Shri Narayan Mandal ..... Accused.

APPEARANCE :

Advocate for the prosecution
«Advocate for the defence

Lf
e of charge
Zz

 

w e of evidence

L9 Bate of recording statement of accus

Mr. P. Dev Ray, Ld. Addl. PP.
Mr. N. K. Ghosh, Ld. Advocate.

: 11-03-19

: 04-05-19 and 14-05-19.

ed: 21-05-2019

* — * “Date of Argument : 21-05-19
Date of Judgment : 21-05-19.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 27-02-2018, informant Sri Bimal Das

lodged an FIR with the O. C. Bijni P. S. alleging inter alia that on 21-08-2018 at about 7-
30 PM while he and his wife were not at home and his 14 years old daughter “xX” (name
withheld, here in after known as "X") was alone in his house, then accused Narayan
Mandal entered into his house and touched the body of his daughter and tried to commit
sexual assault on her. Hence, the present case.

} os 2. On receipt of the FIR, O/C Bijni P. S. registered the same as Bijnii P'S Case No.
262/18, U/S 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and started
investigation. During investigation I. O. visited the place of occurrence, recorded the

C \" statement of witnesses, recorded the statement of vict under section 164 of the Cr FC.
\\S | dudady Judicial Magistrate and after completion of investigation 1.0. submitted charge sheet
Addl. syetit against the accused Sri Narayan Mandal under section 8 of the Protection of Children from
NM

Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ( in short here in after called as POCSO Act)

3. After receiving the charge sheet cognizance was taken u/s 8 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, against the accused Sri Narayan Mandal and
started a Special(P) case. Copy of the relevant documents were furnished to the accused
Person as per provision of section 207 of the Cr. P. C. After hearing both'the sides learned
Advocate and on perusal of case record charge was framed u/s 8 of the POCSO, Act, 2012
and the contents of charge was read over and explained to the accused person to which

he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During trial prosecution side examined as many as 5 witnesses including informant
and victim. Accused was examined u/s 313 of Cr. PR. C. and recorded his statement in
separate sheets. The defence case was of complete denial and the defence side has not

adduced any defence evidence.

gz
5; I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of both sides. I have

gone through the case record as well as evidence on record.

 

POINT FOT DETERMINATION

6. (i) Whether accused on 21-08-18 at about 7- 30 PM at village- Patgoan Bhatipara
under Bijni P. S. committed sexual assault on “X"( a minor girl of 14 years) and thereby
committed an offence punishable u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.?

:DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

re To bring home the charges the prosecution examined five witnesses including the

informant and victim. Let me scrutinize the evidence on record to decide the points.

8. PW1 “X” is the victim of the case. PW1 in her deposition stated that her age is 18
years. She further deposed that about one month ago one day afternoon her mother went
to the house of accused to Prepare Curry for birth day party and she went to road. Then
ar accused Narayan Mandal asked her whether she would go to birthday party or not. The
villager saw them and asked her father to file the case and accordingly her father filed

ON duet case. After filing the case police brought her in the court and her statement was

ade °

recorded by Magistrate. She proved her statement as exhibit-1 and exhibit- 1(1) and }(2)
 

3

are her signatures. During cross-examination she stated that public forced her father to
file this case and accused has not committed anything with her. She made statement
before Magistrate on the instruction of public.

9. PW2 Sri Bimal Das is the informant of the case. PW1 in his deposition has deposed
that about two months ago one day he came home from his work place and his daughter
reported him that accused told something to her. Thereafter, villager forced him to file this
Case and accordingly he filed this case. During cross examination he stated that public
saw that his daughter and accused were talking and public suspected them and forced
him to file this case.

10. PW3 Smt. Minati Das is the mother of the victim “X”. PW3 in her deposition has
deposed that about one year ago one day she went to the house of accused to prepare
food for the birthday party. While her daughter was standing on the road then accused
So asked her to go to the birthday party. Public saw their talking and suspected them and
ced her husband to file the case. Accordingly her husband filed this case. She further
& ted that at the time of occurrence age of her daughter was 17 years. During cross-
amination she stated that accused do nothing with her daughter. At the time of

  

ry /

Ay, —— \ Occurrence age of her daughter may be above 18 years and she stated age of her
oa) RY) ry ao

a

daughter on assumption.

11. PW4 Sri Amulya Das in his deposition has deposed that he about 6/7 months ago
heard that his brother-in-law filed a rape Case against the accused. PW5 Sri Basudev Das
also in his deposition has deposed that he heard that accused entered into the house of

informant and tried to commit sexual assault on the victim “x”

12. From the evidence on record it reveals that while victim girl and accused were
talking on the road then public saw them and suspected them and public forced the
informant to file this case. PW1 in her deposition clearly stated that accused has not
committed any misdeed with her. Though the informant in the FIR stated that accused
entered into his house and tried to commit sexual assault on PW1, but during his evidence

he stated that accused has not committed anything with her daughter. Though the victim

  

. in her statement u/s 164 of the Cr. P. C stated that accused entered into her house and
touched her body and tried to sexual assault on her, but during her evidence she stated

Av" that accused has not committed anything with her. Hence, I find that there is no
\\ ial d onsistency in the evidence of PW1 and PW2. So, I find that prosecution case is doubtful.

ddl Fant Hence, I have nothing to hesitate to hold that prosecution failed to prove this case against
4

the accused beyond reasonable doubt. Therefore, I find that prosecution failed to bring
home the charge u/s 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubt.

LS: From the discussion made above, I find that the prosecution side failed to prove
the charges against the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, accused Sri
Narayan Mandal is found not guilty under section 8 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and he is acquitted from the charge and set him free at his

liberty forthwith.

14. Send a copy of the judgment and order to the District Magistrate, Chirang as per

provision of section 365 of the Cr. P. C.

   

f,
f ry 15. Considering the fact and circumstance of the case, I find that this is not a fit
2 / case to recommend the DLSA, Chirang for victim compensation u/s 357-A Cr. P. C.
oO \
wi}
\e A

Given under my hand & seal of this court the 21* day of May,20f9.

ai 3
~| 3
+
\

Ponte

Adationg) special Judge,

 
Go

“

Se

SN

IO
Bee (D) Defence exhibit- Nil.

 

APPENDIX
(A) Prosecution witnesses:
PW1- Victim “X”
PW2- Shri Bimal Das
PW3- Smt. Minati Das
Pw4- Sri Amulya Das
PW5- Sri Busudev Das

 

(B) Prosecution exhibit-
ae \ Ext.1- statement of victim girl u/s 164 of the Cr. P. C.

ls ~ © Defence witnesses- Nil.

7

 
