HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE BILASIPARA

Present:- Smti S. Bhuyan, AJS
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Special Case No- 01 of 2015
u/s 4 of POCSO Act
STATE
Versus

Bellal Hussain,

S/O Abdul Gofur,

R/O Vill- Sontoshpur,

PS- Chapar, Dist- Dhubri, Assam

Accused person

(Corresponding to GR case No- 377/14 (Chapar PS Case No. 377/14) u/s 4 of

POCSO Act)
Advocate appeared:-
For the state = Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Special P.P.
For the accused - Mr. Mozahar Ali Prodhani &

Mr. Tofazal Hoque, Advocate.

Date of institution of the case :- 08-08-14
Date of Framing charge :- 28-07-15
Date of prosecution evidence :- 05-12-15, 08-02-16, 14-02-17,24-08-17

20-02-18,28-02-18
Statement of accused recorded on _ :- 12-09-18

Date of Argument :- 03-11-18, 07-01-19
2|Page

Judgment delivered :- 21-01-19

Hearing on Sentence :- 25-01-19

Sentence Pronounced :- 25-01-19
JUDGMENT

Prosecution Case

1. This prosecution case set on motion based on the ejahar filed by
informant Md. Sultan Ali on 08-08-14 before i/c Salkocha out post inter alia
citing that on 08-08-14 at about 10.30 am accused Bellal Hussain enticed his
granddaughter Miss X, (name changed, herein after read as Miss X) at his
house and thereafter accused had committed rape on her. Hearing cry of the
Miss X, mother of Miss X rushed to accused’s house and she witnessed the
incident and thereafter mother of Miss X brought the victim girl Miss X from the

house of accused Bellal and narrated the whole incident.

Investigation
2. On receipt of ejahar from informant i/c Salkocha oust post forwarded

the same to O/C Chapar PS for registration of the case and O/C Chapar PS
registered the police case vide Chapar PS case no. 377/14 u/s 4 of POCSO Act
and ASI Nirendra Ch. Nath was entrusted to conduct the investigation of the
case and after completion of investigation I/O submitted charge sheet against
the accused person named herein above u/s 4 of POCSO Act and cognizance
taken and upon appearance of the accused person, necessary copies has been

furnished to him.

Charge

3. My Ld. predecessor after hearing learned counsel for both sides and
perusal of material on record framed charge against the accused Bellal Hussain
u/s 4 of POCSO Act and when charge is read over and explained to the accused
person he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

Trial
4. In order to prove the prosecution charges against the accused person,

prosecution adduced evidence of all together 9 numbers of witnesses including
3|Page

one court witness and exhibited 8 nos. of documents. PW-1 Sultan Ali, PW-2
Moniza Bibi, PW-3 Abbas Ali, PW-4 Abu Shama Sk, PW-5 Mustt. Fatema Bibi,
PW-6 Mr. Sankar Chandra Rabha (FSL expert), PW-7 ASI Nirendra Ch. Nath (
1.0), PW-8 Dr. Rinku Anmed( M.O) and CW-1 Miss X, ( victim child). Ext-1 FSL
report, Ext-2 forwarding letter, Ext-3 Ejahar, Ext-4 Sketch Map, Ext-5 Seizure
list, Ext-6 Seizure list, Ext-7 Statement of victim girl recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C
and Ext-8 Charge sheet. After closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of
the accused person recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Accused plea is total denial,
however declined to adduced evidence in support of the plea of denial.

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

i) Whether accused on 08-08-14 at about 10.30 am at village Sontoshpur
under Chapar PS committed penetrative sexual assault on informant’s

granddaughter Miss X (aged about 4 years old) ?

ARGUMENT

6. Ld. Addl. P.P submits prosecution by adducing the evidence of
informant, victim, FSL expert and other witnesses, the eye witness of the case
established the charge framed against the accused and accused failed to rebut
the evidence of prosecution and accused entitled the punishment prescribed
under the law.

7. It has been argued by Id. defence counsel that Ext-3 cannot treated as
ejahar as IO of the case reached place of occurrence on receiving of
information made by one Komar Ali vide GD entry no. 141 dated 08-08-14 and
Komar Ali is not examined by the prosecution and therefore prosecution case is
fatal. Ld. counsel further submitted informant lodged ejahar on 08-08-14 but he
has lodged ejahar after 6 Y2 hours and delay of 6 % hours in lodging of ejahar
not being explained and disclosed by informant, the prosecution case totally
failed to prove. Ld. counsel further submitted the victim girl urinated on her
panty when accused rebuked her after quarrelling with his daughter and there
appears two stories in the prosecution case. One is commission of rape and
other is quarrel between informant and accused’s daughter and accused
rebuked victim girl, so wet panty of victim girl is due to urination of victim girl
on her panty on standing position out of fear. Ld. counsel further submitted
PW-1 did not stated before the police that he see semen on the under garment

of the victim girl and PW-2 not stated panty of the victim girl was wet and PW-
4|Page

5 did not stated police seized gamosa of accused and undergarment of the
victim girl, so wet panty does not established that it contain semen and police
seized gamosa of accused and wet panty of victim girl not stated before
witness so seizure not proved and therefore their evidence does not stand. He
further submitted victim girl in her evidence stated colour of her undergarment
as yellow and police seized one green colour under wear. So there is
differences in the statement of victim girl and she made different statement in
her 161 and 164 Cr.P.C statement and before the court and therefore her
evidence cannot be relied upon. Ld. defence counsel further submitted PW-2
found victim girl naked, so falling of the semen of accused on the
undergarment of victim girl caste doubt and prosecution case is not established
against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt and evidence of PW-1, PW-2,
PW-4, PW-5 and victim child cannot be acted upon and therefore ingredient of
section 3 of POCSO Act not at all comes out from the evidence on record. Ld.
defence counsel in support of his argument relied on decisions of Ashok
Debbarama @ Achak Debbarama Vs. State of Tripura, 2014 CRI. L.J. 1830;
Tukan Sharma Vs. State of Tripura, 2016 CRI. L.J. 4019; Manoj Das Vs. State of
Assam, 2018(2) Gauhati Law Journal 182; Ahizul Hoque Vs. State of Assam,
2013 (3) Gauhati Law Journal 684; Allauddin Vs. State of Assam, 2003(2)
Gauhati Law Journal 578; Partha Dey Vs. State of Tripura, 2013 (3) Gauhati
Law Journal 220; State of Tripura Vs. Dulal Dey, 2008 (1) Gauhati Law Journal
( NOC) 112.
PROSECUTION EVIDENCE

8. CW-1 Miss X, victim girl of the case deposed complainant is her
grandfather and she knows accused Bellal Hussain. She deposed about 2 years
back while she was proceeding to a grocery shop, accused Bellal called her to
his house and assured her to give sugarcane. Thereafter accused took her to
his house and removed her pant and committed sexual assault on her. She
raised hue and cry and hearing the same her mother came and rescued her. In
cross she stated when accused Bellal took her, she raised hue and cry and on
hearing her shout, her mother came to the house of accused and recovered
her. She stated at the time of incident she was wearing yellow colour pant and
Bella was wearing a gamosa. “She denied on the day of incident, quarrel took
place between the daughter of accused and her and accused Bellal warned her

and then she urinated in her undergarment out of fear; she deposed falsely as
5|Page

per instruction of her parents; accused Bellal did not commit any sexual assault
on her”.

9. PW-1 Sultan Ali is the informant of the case. His evidence is that victim
girl is his granddaughter and at the time of incident victim girl was aged about
4 years old. He deposed on the day of incident at about 10.30 am he was lying
on bed in his room. At that time he heard shouting from outside. Hearing the
same he came out from his room and saw his daughter in law coming to his
house along with victim girl. He deposed his daughter in law narrated before
him that accused had committed sexual intercourse and assault on the victim
child and undergarment of the victim child got wet as a result of sexual assault
made by the accused. He deposed his daughter in law further told him that
accused took the victim child to his house and committed sexual assault on her.
Thereafter when matter was known to the mother of the victim child, she made
hue and cry and accused run away from the scene. He deposed they found
presence of semen on the undergarment of the victim child and undergarment
of the victim child was also wet. He deposed later on accused was caught by
village people and accused was handed over to the police. On the same day he
lodged ejahar and after lodging of ejahar victim child was examined by doctor.
He further deposed he also made statement before the Ld. Magistrate and
police seized the undergarment of the victim child. In cross he stated Salkocha
police out post is situated at a distance of 1 km from his house and he lodged
ejahar in the evening on the same day of the occurrence of the incident. He
stated accused has also a daughter namely Khodeja Khatun who is almost of
the age of his granddaughter. He stated house of his son Rahim Badsha, Musa,
Nisha & Monnaf are situated adjacent to his house and at the time of incident
he did not see Monnaf, Nisha & Musa coming to his house. He stated there was
no wall in between the house of his son and accused Bellal. He stated there are
nearly about 6 family members in the house of accused Bellal and there are 8
family members in his family and his dwelling house is adjacent to the house of
his son Rahim Badsha. He stated he did not see accused Bella running away
from the scene after the incident and he only heard that accused was caught by
public later on. He denied he did not see semen in the undergarment of the
victim child after the incident; there was a dispute with regard to the common
path of land between the mother of the victim and the accused Bellal; on the

day of incident his granddaughter was playing with the daughter of accused
6|Page

and when accused scolded his granddaughter, his granddaughter urinated on
her undergarment out of fear.

10. PW-2 Moniza Bibi deposed informant is her father in law and victim girl
is her daughter. She deposed her victim daughter was aged about 4 years old
at the time of incident and on the date of incident at about 10.00 am, while she
was preparing food in her kitchen, she heard shouting of her daughter outside
her house. When she came out, she heard shouting of her daughter coming
from the house of accused Bellal. Accordingly she went to the house of accused
Bellal and found her daughter inside the room of accused Bellal and she found
her daughter naked and accused was sitting above her daughter. She deposed
undergarment of her daughter was removed by the accused and accused Bellal
had committed sexual assault on her daughter. Thereafter, she went to the
house of her father in law and told the incident and matter was also reported to
the neighboring people. Later on village people caught accused Bellal and police
arrived and asked her about the incident to which she narrated about the
incident to police. She deposed her victim daughter was brought before the
Magistrate and she made statement before the Magistrate and police seized her
victim daughter’s undergarment and one gamosa of accused Bellal. She further
deposed later on village people handed over the accused to police. In cross
she stated accused Bellal has 3 years old daughter at the time of occurrence
and house of accused Bellal is adjacent to her house. She stated she did not
see her daughter going to the house of accused and after the incident her
neighbors Musa, Nisha & Monnaf came to her house hearing her shouting. She
stated prior to the occurrence of the incident, her daughter went to a grocery
shop to buy some articles and her daughter did not return back to house from
the shop and she was called by accused to his house. She stated there are 6
family members in the house of accused and her parents in law did not see the
occurrence of the incident. She stated her daughter went to shop at about
10.00 am at the time of occurrence and prior to the occurrence of the incident,
she and her parents in law were in her house. She stated she did not find
accused Bellal at naked state at the time of incident. She denied since they had
dispute with accused Bellal for some land issue, therefore she lodged the case
against the accused; prior to the occurrence of the incident, her daughter and
daughter of accused were quarrelling each other and accused Bellal warned her

daughter and then her daughter urinated in her undergarment out of fear.
7|Page

11. PW-3 Abbas Ali deposed he knows complainant and accused. On the
day of incident hearing hue and cry in the house of complainant he went there
and saw some people gathered in the campus of the complainant. From the
gathering he came to know that accused had scolded the granddaughter of the
complainant and he found undergarment of the granddaughter of the
complainant wet. He deposed later on he came to know that police arrested
accused Bellal. In cross he stated many people gathered at the campus of
complainant and at that time hue and cry was took place there. He stated he
did not see Musa, Nisha and Monnaf at the place of occurrence and the
undergarment of the victim was wet.

12. PW-4 Abu Shama Sk. deposed incident was took place at about 10.00
am. Hearing hue and cry in the house of accused Bellal Hussain, he rushed to
the house of accused Bellal and found informant’s granddaughter crying and
also found undergarment of informant’s granddaughter wet. He deposed
accused Bellal Hussain was also present at the place of occurrence and accused
fled away seeing gathering of the people at the place of occurrence. He
deposed many people gathered at the place of occurrence and later on
informant lodged ejahar before the police station. In cross he stated victim girl
is daughter of his daughter Manjita and there were 4/5 houses present in
between his house and her daughter. He stated he did not see Abbash Ali at
the place of occurrence. He stated one grocery shop house is present near the
house of accused Bellal. He denied accused did not commit rape on victim child.
13. PW-5 Musstt. Fatema Bibi deposed house of accused stands near to her
house. Hearing hue and cry in the house of accused Bellal, she went to the
place of occurrence and there she saw victim child in naked condition. Accused
Bellal Hussain fled away from that place but later on he was apprehended by
villager. She deposed victim child told her that accused had taken her to his
house and committed beya kam with her. She deposed underwear of victim
child was wet. She deposed later on police came at the place of occurrence and
police seized gamosa of accused and wet underwear of victim child. Thereafter
victim child was medically examined by the doctor. In cross she stated on the
southern side of her house, house of accused Bellal Hussain is present and one
shop is present after three houses from her house. She stated she saw accused
Bellal Hussain taking victim girl to his house. She stated Abu Shama is her
brother. She stated hearing hue and cry first mother of victim girl went to the

place of occurrence and subsequently she visited the place of occurrence and
8|Page

when mother of victim child visited the place of occurrence, accused Bellal
Hussain was standing there. She stated police recorded her statement in the
house of accused Bellal Hussain i.e at the place of occurrence. She stated prior
to the incident victim child used to visit the house of accused Bellal and used to
play with children of accused Bellal. She denied she in collusion with others had
lodged false case against the accused; she did not made statement before
police that police seized gamosa of accused and wet undergarment of victim
child; on the day of incident victim child went to play in the house of accused
Bellal and one altercation took place.

14. PW-6 Mr. Sankar Chandra Rabha, Scientific Officer deposed on 26-09-14
he received a parcel through Director, FSL, Kahilipara in connection with Chapar
PS case no. 377/14 u/s 4 of POCSO Act 2012. The parcel sealed cloth over in
one carton box consist of two exhibits. After opening the parcel he found- i. one
green colour underwear contains stain of suspected semen mark as A. MR no.
114/14. My examination number SERO 3390/A and ii. One white and red colour
gamosa contains stain of suspected blood and semen mark as B. MR no.
115/14. My examination number SERO 3390/B and after examining aforesaid
articles he found- i. Ext No. SERO 3390/A gave positive test for human semen
and ii. Ext. No. SERO 3390/B gave positive test for human blood and negative
test for spermatozoa (semen). He deposed Ext. 1 is his report and Ext. 1(1) is
his signature. He deposed he had examined one green colour underwear
contains stain of suspected semen and one white and red colour gamosa
contains stain of suspected blood and semen and _ he had seen the same before
the court at the time of adducing his evidence after opening of the seal cover
carton. He deposed Ext M(1) is one green colour underwear contains stain of
suspected semen and Ext M(2) is one white and red colour gamosa contains
stain of suspected blood and semen. In cross he stated the process of present
examination was completed within one month and he had examined only one
green colour under wear.

15. PW-7 ASI Nirendra Ch. Nath, IO of the case deposed on 08-08-2014, he
was posted at Salkocha O.P. as ASI of Police. On that day i/c Salkocha O.P.
received one information over mobile from one Komar Ali Talukdar that one boy
was apprehended by the villager suspected him to be involved in illicit act.
Accordingly i/c Salkocha out post after making GD entry vide GD no. 141 dated
08-08-14 send him to village Santoshpur. He visited the village Santoshpur and

took custody of one 4 year old girl Miss X and one 22 year old boy Bellal
9|Page

Hussain. On that day he had recorded statement of the witnesses, drawn
sketch map of the place of occurrence, seized Panty of the 4 year old victim girl
and one Gamosa belonging to the accused by preparing seizure list. Thereafter
he brought accused Bellal Hussain and 4 year old victim girl Miss X to the
Salkocha Police O.P. and he produced accused Bellal Hussain and victim at
Salkocha SHC for Medical examination. He deposed in connection with this
incident written ejahar was filed on 08-08-14 by Sultan Ali and he finding
material against the accused Bellal Hussain produced accused Bellal Hussain
before the Magistrate and on 9-8-14 and he produced victim girl at Dhubri Civil
Hospital for her further Medical Examination and thereafter he had produced
victim girl before the Magistrate to record her state u/s 164 Cr.P.C. He deposed
he sent seized articles to FSL for examination. Thereafter he had collected
Medical examination report of the victim, FSL examination report and after
completion of the investigation he had submitted charge sheet vide Ext-8. He
further deposed M. Ext. 1 is the green colour Panty (underwear) which he had
seized vide M R No. 114/14 by Ext. 5 and M Ext.2 is one white and red colour
Gamosa, which he had seized vide M.R. No. 115/14 by Ext. 6. In cross he
stated one Kumar Ali given information over mobile to then i/c Salkocha out
post about the incident but he did not recorded statement of Kumar Ali. He
stated he had recorded statement of the witnesses as per GD entry and after
lodging ejahar another GD entry is made vide GD entry 148 dated 08-08-14. He
stated after receiving ejahar, he did not record statement of any further witness
and he did not again visit the place of occurrence after receiving ejahar. He
stated in his case diary he had made note that in presence of guardian he had
recorded the statement of the victim girl as she is a minor. He stated he had
mentioned the colour of the seized panty in the seizure list and it was green
colour. He stated he first provided preliminary medical examination of the
victim on 08-08-14 and on next day 09-08-14 he had produced victim girl to
Dhubri Civil Hospital and on 09-08-17 he had produced victim to court to record
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. He stated victim girl stated before him that
accused Bellal had committed sexual assault on her. He stated witness Sultan
Ali did not stated before police that he saw semen in the undergarment of
the victim girl. He stated witness Moniza Bibi did not stated before him that she
found the undergarment of her daughter wet. He stated witness Moniza Bibi
stated before him that accused committed sexual assault (beya kam) on her

daughter. He denied seized articles were connected with the present case; the
10| Page

case is a false and therefore he had recorded only the statement of the relative
of the victim girl.

16. PW-8 Dr. Rinku Ahmed is M.O. She deposed on 09-08-14 in connection
with Chapar PS Case No. 377/14 u/s 4 of POCSO Act she had medically
examined Miss X, victim girl and on examination found- Patient was oriented in
space & time. Clothing fresh, victim has washed her genitalia and changed her
cloths after the incident; Examination of injuries- No injuries found; Local
examination of genital parts- External Genitalia — Normal; Hymen- not
mentioned in medical report; Vagina & Cervix- Normal. Laboratory. As the
vaginal orifice is very small so she could not do the vaginal examination but the
vaginal smear is made from the panty which patient was wearing as she has
not washed the panty; Laboratory findings no spermatozoa seen in the smear.
According to her opinion- patient was not consistent with recent sexual
intercourse or assault. She further deposed during medical examination patient
narrated history before her as- on 08-08-14 at 10.30 am the person called her
and sexually assaulted her. In cross she stated in column 9 of Ext-9 as per
history incident was took place on 08-08-14 at about 10.30 am and she had
examined on 09-08-14 at about 11.30 am after 25 hours of the incident. She
stated if a minor girl of the age of 4 suffers from any urine infection then there
is not white discharge or vaginal discharge and there is no similarity of white
discharge, vaginal discharge with sugar cane juice. She stated to find out the
presence of semen, the smear found in the panty is sent to State Forensic
Science Laboratory for chemical examination. She denied she has prepared a
medical report without examining patient.

DISCUSSION, DECISION & REASON THERE OF:-

17. Prosecution allegation against the accused Bellal Hussain @ Hosen is

 

commission of penetrative sexual assault on victim girl, minor grand-daughter
of informant Sultan Ali who was aged about 4 years old on the day of incident.
Therefore, prosecution must bring on record the ingredients of section 3 of the
POCSO Act.

18. Section 3 of the POCSO Act says- Penetrative sexual assault- A

person is said to commit "penetrative sexual assault" if-

a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra
or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or
11| Page

b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the
penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the
child to do so with him or any other person; or

c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the
child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the child or

makes the child to do so to such person or any other person.

19. When allegation is made under section 3, 5, 7 and 9 of the POCSO Act
and same is proved as alleged against the offender ( accused), presumption is
drawn against the offender u/s 29 of the POCSO Act that offender ( accused)
has committed/ abated or attempted to commit the offence, unless the contrary
is proved. The Penal Provision of section 3 of the POCSO Act is section 4 of the
POCSO Act.

20. Keeping in mind the statutory provision of law, now let me scrutinized
and scanned the evidence on record, whether prosecution able to bring home
the charge of section 4 of the POCSO Act as alleged against the accused Bellal
Hussain.

21. At the very outset let me see whether the victim girl was minor on the
date of incident. Ext-3 is the ejahar. In the ejahar, the grandfather of the child
made statement that victim was aged about 4 years old on the day of incident.
PW-8 is the medical officer, who had examined victim girl on 09-08-14, that is
on the next day of the incident and PW-8 in her medical report noted age of the
victim on 09-08-14 as 4 years. Medical report shown victim's vaginal orifice is
very small so not possible to do the vaginal examination. This report of the
Medical officer (PW-8) clearly pointed that victim girl was child on the date of
incident and she was not a minor only but she is a child. PW-1 informant, PW-2
mother of the victim girl stated victim was 4 years old at the time of incident.
Other PWs and PW-7 IO of the case stated victim was a child of 4 years. There
is no cross examination from the accused side on the age of the victim. That
means age of the victim child at the time was 4 years is an admitted fact. Ext-7
statement of victim girl recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C clearly pointed that victim girl
was 4 years old on the date of incident. Thus, from the evidence on record it is
abundantly clear that victim girl was 4 years old at the time of incident and she

was just a toddler whose age is to play and merry and she has not developed
12| Page

any sexual character. Now let me find out whether accused Bellal Hussain
committed penetrative sexual assault on victim child as alleged against him by
prosecution.

22. In the Ext-3 ejahar it has been alleged that accused Bellal on 08-08-14
at about 10.30 am enticed victim child at his house when child went to nearby
grocery shop and thereafter he had committed rape on her. Hearing cry of the
child, her mother PW-2 rushed to accused’s house, wherefrom cry of child is
coming and witness the incident and PW-2 brought the child victim from the
house of accused Bellal and narrated the whole incident to other members of
the family including the informant.

23. PW-1, informant of the case at the time of adducing evidence before the
court stated victim child is his grandchild and on the day of incident while he
was lying on bed in his room he heard shouting and saw his daughter in law
PW-2 is coming with victim and told him that accused Bellal committed sexual
intercourse with his granddaughter (PW-2’s daughter) and he _ noticed
undergarment ( panty) of the victim girl wet. His evidence shown he got to
know from PW-2 that accused Bellal took away victim child at his house and
hearing cry of the child, PW-2 rushed to accused’s house and seen the incident,
she bring her daughter and accused fled away from the place of occurrence.
PW-1 informant fully substantiates his statement made in his ejahar and before
police. There is no laches in his testimonies and he stand firmly what he stated
in his earlier statement.

24. PW-2 deposed on the date of incident when she was preparing food in
the kitchen, she heard cry of her victim daughter and she came out from the
kitchen and senses cry of her daughter coming out from the house of accused,
she went there, found her daughter naked and accused was sitting above her
daughter and seeing her accused run away pushing her and then she bring her
daughter and went to her father in law’s ( PW-1’s) house and narrated the
incident. Her further testimony is that accused removed undergarment of her
daughter and committed sexual assault on her daughter. She deposed later on
village people apprehend accused Bellal.

25. Testimonies of PW-2 reveals she told incident to PW-1, her father in law
and informant of the case. PW-2 immediately rushed to the house of accused
Bellal, place of occurrence hearing cry of her victim child, seen accused sitting
over her daughter, her daughter was naked, she bring her daughter and
narrated the incident to PW-1. Reading of statement of PW-1 and PW-2 made it
13| Page

crystal clear that both corroborated each other statement and except the
allegation made in the ejahar no other facts, stories coming out from their
statement. Statement of PW-2 bring on record other people rushed to accused's
house when hue and cry was taken place. Her evidence further pointed accused
fled away from the crime scene when she rushed to the place of occurrence
pushing her and later on village people manage to apprehend accused Bellal
and handed over to police.

26. House of accused is present on the south boundary of PW-5. It means
PW-5 is the adjacent neighbour of accused Bellal. In between accused Bellal
and PW-4 house there present other 5/6 houses because accused is the
adjacent neighbour of PW-2 and house of PW-2 is after 4/5 houses from the
house of PW-4. Both the PWs rushed to accused Bellal’s house hearing hue and
cry of the victim child and found victim was crying and her undergarment was
wet, accused run away from his house on arrival of PW-4, PW-5, PW-2 at his
house. Both the PWs found victim naked and on being asked victim child told
them that accused did beya kam ( here witness means beya kam sexual
intercourse/rape) with her after bringing her at his house. Their evidence
shown village people later on managed to apprehend the accused. PW-5 rushed
to the place of occurrence immediately after PW-2.

27. Reading together statement of PW-1, PW-2, PW-4 and PW-5 pointed
they heard cry of the victim child, cry of the victim child coming from the house
of accused Bellal, all of them rushed to the house of accused Bellal, found
victim child in naked condition, undergarment of victim child was wet and
accused Bellal run away seeing their arrival. Accused person trying to abscond
and run away from the place of occurrence immediately on arrival of the
witnesses of the case at place of occurrence leaving the child victim naked at
place of occurrence only goes to show accused involvement in the commission
of the offence as alleged against the accused. Victim child told them that
accused ( had sexual intercourse with her ) did beya kam with her. All the PWs
specifically and categorically stated that victim girl narrated incident to them.
More so, PW-2, PW4 and PW-5 witness accused running away from the place of
occurrence on their arrival. PW-3 is another witness of the case and his
evidence pointed he heard hue and cry in the house of informant, came there
and found undergarment of victim child wet.

28. | CW-1 is the victim child. Her evidence shown accused Bellal took her to

his house in the name of giving sugarcane and then removed her pant and
14| Page

committed sexual assault on her. She raised hue and cry and her mother came
and rescued her. Her cross shown she denied all the suggestion put to her by
defence. She denied having quarrel with daughter of accused, urinate in her
undergarment when accused scolded, Bellal did not commit sexual assault on
her. Cross examination of CW-1, child victim shown her mother came to
accused’s house when she made hue and cry and recovered her and Bellal was
wearing a Gamosa. PW-2, mother of the child victim stated hearing shouting of
her child, she came out from the kitchen, senses her daughter's cry coming out
from the accused’s house and she rushed to the accused’s house and saw her
daughter in naked condition and accused was above her daughter and she
bring her daughter and accused run away pushing her. The statement of PW-2
and CW-1 is fully corroborated by each other statement. CW-1 is a child of 4
years old so there may be omission in her statement. The minor omission in her
statement does not waive her whole statement when victim child categorically
and specifically in all her statement stated that accused did beya kam with her
by which she mean accused sexually assaulted her. Her statement before
police, Ld. Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C and before the court is exclusive and she
stated accused removed her pant, committed sexual assault on her. Her
statement shown she made statement in all the stage without any pressure, not
being tutored and her evidence alone is acceptable beyond all reasonable
doubt. It is not the rule of law that child will only speak what the child is asked
to say. Here CW-1 is the victim of extreme sexual assault at her very tender
age. She suffered the trauma so she will speak what she suffered and nothing
else. A female child possesses modesty from the date of her birth and same is
attribute of her sex. The tender age of the victim cannot be sole ground to
discard her evidence when nothing comes out against her that she made
statement not being tutored or being influenced by other. Why a girl of 4 years
will lie before others pointing her fingers towards one major person that he had
removed her pant and had sexual assaulted her. She has no knowledge what
sex is all about. She is an innocent girl and 4 years old girl pointing her finger
toward one man that he removed her pant, did sexual assault her only means
accused Bellal had committed sexual assault on her. Cross examination shown
victim child was bring by her mother from the house of accused and she was
found naked with accused with wet undergarment and accused run away from
his house when PW-2, PW-4, PW-5 came his house. Accused run away from his

house seeing arrival of mother of the child victim of sexual assault and PW-4
15|Page

and PW-5 further strengthen the prosecution allegation made against the
accused. Accused failed to give any answer why child was found naked with
him inside the room of his house if she was playing at her house with his
daughter. Presence of accused with the naked child victim and accused sitting
above the victim and victim is naked with wet undergarment only drawn
presumption that accused had committed sexual intercourse with the child
victim.

29. On scrutiny of the cross examination of the PW-1, PW-2, PW-4, PW-5
and victim child only goes to show that accused run away from his house after
the incident on arrival of the mother of the victim child, PW-4 and PW-5. Cross
examination of PW-1, PW-2, PW-3, PW-4 and PW-5 reveal that accused was
apprehended by villager, police was informed and accused was handed over to
police on arrival of the police and PW-7 corroborated the same while adducing
his evidence before the court. When accused run away from the place of
occurrence, villager got alerted and apprehended him inform police and handed
over to police on their arrival.

30. It is further evident from the cross examination of PWs that all the PWs,
that is to say PW-1 to PW-5 noticed wet undergarment of the victim. Defence
during cross and at the time of argument stated there was quarrel took place
between accused daughter and PW-2’s daughter while she was playing with
accused's daughter. But this cross examination and defence argument is totally
failed and nullified by defence cross examination of PW-2 that victim child went
to grocery shop just before the incident. Victim child and her mother PW-2
stated just before the incident victim girl went to grocery shop wherefrom
accused picked up her and taken to his house. In villages little girl alone went
to nearby village shop and parents also allowed them to go on the assumption
that they are known to each other and no untoward incident would befall on
them. They are rustic village people. Do not think much before sending their
little one to nearby shop. Cross examination of PWs further bring on record that
grocery shop house is at a little distance from the accused and PW-2’s house.
Prosecution allegation against the accused is that he lured child victim to his
house and sexually assaulted her when she went to nearby grocery shop and
prosecution fairly able to bring home the same and accused totally failed to
overrule and rebut the evidence of the prosecution witnesses. Victim’s mother
saw her little child naked and accused is above the child. Accused failed to

rebut this fact and nothing comes out in favour of the accused from the cross
16| Page

examination of PWs and there is no two story appearing from the evidence of
PWs as contended by the learned counsel. Rather cross examination of PWs
makes it crystal clear that there was no dispute between accused and family
member of child victim prior to the incident or just prior to the incident. It is
also noticeable from the evidence on record accused run away from his house
after just arrival of child victim’s mother and PW-4 and PW-5 to his house. PW-
5 is not related to PW-2 and she is the adjacent neighbour of accused and one
of the neighboring people of PW-2 and she had deposed what she noticed and
heard from the victim girl. The running away of accused further establish
commission of the offence by him. A person will not run away from the place of
occurrence if it is simple case of rebuking. More so, if altercation took place
between accused daughter and child victim and accused rebuked him that too
while playing outside and in the house of PW-2, then how victim found in the
house of accused, why his daughter was not found in and around the place of
occurrence not been able to answer the accused and failed to rebut by the
accused. The evidence on record squarely covered the prosecution allegation
made against the accused.

31. Defence took plea that victim child urinate in her undergarment in
standing position so her undergarment (pant) was wet. But this plea is totally
disproved by the statement of PW-6 and Ext-1 the Scientific officer’s report on
seized article. It has been stated by PW-1, PW-2 and PW-5 police seized
Gamosa and wet panty of victim. PW-7 corroborates that he had seized panty (
wet) of the victim child and Gamosa of the accused vide Ext-5 seizure list and
send both seized material for examination at FSL Kahilipara, Guwahati. PW-6 is
the Scientific Officer and he stated one green coloured underwear contains
stain of suspected semen gave positive test for human semen and one red and
while gamosa gave positive test of human blood. All the witnesses stated they
saw wet panty of the victim child. PW-1, PW-2, PW-5 stated panty of child
victim contain semen of accused. The testimony of PWs together with expert
report establish that wet panty of child victim is found with human semen and it
totally discarded and disproved defence version that victim child urinate in
standing position so her panty got wet. This further totally ruled out and thrown
away defence story of quarrel between victim child and accused daughter while
playing in the house of victim child and child victim urinate in the standing
position when accused rebuked her. Presence of the semen in the panty of the

victim, mother of the victim seen victim naked and accused sitting above her
17| Page

and wet panty of the victim all goes to show and prove the prosecution
allegation made against the accused.

32. — This is a case of penetrative sexual assault on child victim. Evidence on
record shown when PW-2, the mother of the child went to the house of
accused and she witness the incident of sexual intercourse on her child by
accused, accused pushing her run away from the place of occurrence. PW-4
and PW-5 also noticed victim crying, wet undergarment and accused run away
from his house. It is the evidence of all PWs, villagers caught accused and
inform police, police arrived, took custody of accused and victim child. On the
same day grandfather of the child victim lodged the ejahar. It has been coming
out from the testimonies of PW-1 and PW-2 that, PW-2 after bringing her child
from the house of accused went to PW-1, her father in law’s house and
narrated the incident. Statement of PW-4, PW-5 shown they asked victim what
happened to her and she had narrated the incident of penetrative sexual
assault to them. PW-3 and other villager also went to the house of informant
and asked what happened to the child victim CW-1. All of them seen went
panty of victim girl. When sexual assault ‘rape’ incident took place upon 4 years
old girl, it is easily imaginable what pressure, trauma, befall on the mother and
other family member of the girl. On one side there is future of the child,
prestige of the family and stigma upon the child and her family and on other
side fear, shame and then to gather courage to fight with the culprit. So thus
there is a delay in lodging the ejahar for 6 hours. Under the facts and
circumstances of the case and its nature, community, condition, village life,
stigma, pressure, fear, future of the girl all coupled with led six hour delay in
lodging the ejahar and that does not effected the prosecution charge coming
out against the accused. The circumstances, nature of the crime, age of the
victim, though silently but all clearly speaks, explained and narrated reasonable
cause of the delay of 6 /12 hours in lodging the ejahar.

33. Hon’ble Apex Court in a catena of judgment made observation that
delay in filing FIR in rape case is not of much significance as victim has to
muster courage to come out in open and expose herself in a conservative social
milieu. Hon’ble Apex court in State of Punjab vs Gurmeet Singh & Ors, (1996) 2
SCC, 384 observed “The courts cannot over-look the fact that in sexual offences
delay in the lodging of the FIR can be due to variety of reasons particularly the
reluctance of the prosecutrix or her family members to go to the police and

complain about the incident which concerns the reputation of the prosecutrix
18| Page

and the honour of her family. It is only after giving it a cool thought that a
complaint of sexual offence is generally lodged”.

34. In Tulshidas vs State of Goa, AIR 2004 SC 978 It is held that
Prosecution case cannot be discarded solely on the ground of delay. There is no
straight jacket formula can be adopted for delay in sexual offence due to
various reason and most prominent reason is the mental condition of the
girl/woman who is a victim of sexual harassment/assault/rape

35. In the present case coupled with the aforesaid principle of law laid down
by the Hon’ble Apex Court together with the facts and circumstances of the
case, nature of the case, age of the victim, village life of the informant and his
family member goes to show that 6 hour delay in filing of the ejahar is not fatal
for the prosecution case and this six hour delay has nothing to do when
prosecution evidence bring only one inference of the guilty of the accused and
under such circumstances delay cannot be the barrier to render the justice to
the victim of the case.

36. Statement of PW-7 IO of the case is that on 08-08-14 i/c Salkocha
police out post received one information over mobile from one Kamar Ali
Talukdar that one boy was apprehended by the villager suspected him to be
involved in illicit act. Thereafter i/c Salkocha police out post making GD entry
no. 141 dated 08-08-14 send him to village Sonteshpur and he took custody of
the boy named Bellal aged about 22 years and child Miss X, ( named changed)
aged about 4 years. Defence plea is that for this reason Ext-3 cannot be treated
as ejahar in view of GD entry no. 141 dated 08-08-14.

an Statement of all the PWs shown when accused Bellal run away from the
place of occurrence he was chased and caught by village people and police was
informed. Police arrived and took custody of accused Bellal. GD entry no. 141
dated 08-08-14 shown police received one information of holding of one boy by
public suspected to be involved in illicit act. This information is just a cryptic
information to inform police about the apprehension of one boy suspected to be
involved in commission of crime and police party alerted to come to the place of
occurrence to take stock of the situation and to took custody of accused. The
GD entry does not speak what incident was took place. So it cannot be treated
as first information report and Ext-3 is the first information report.

38. It is observed by Hon’ble Apex Court that cryptic information to police is
not amounted to FIR as per section 154 Cr.P.C. In Sidhartha Vashisht @ Manu
Sharma vs State (Nct Of Delhi) (Jessica Lal murder case) decided on 19 April,
19| Page

2010 in para no. 37 Hon'ble Apex Court held that "Znsofar as the decision in
Bhagwant Kishore (supra), it was noted in para 8 at page 224 that the
information received by the officer was not vague, but contained precise
particulars of the acts of misappropriation committed by the accused and,
therefore, the said information could be treated as FIR. On the contrary, it is
evident from the facts established on record in the present case that none of
the three telephonic messages received by police furnished any detail about the
offence or the accused. The judgment in Khwaja Nazir Ahmad (supra) Is also
distinguishable as the law laid down in the said case does not concern the issue
involved in the present case. Cryptic telephonic messages could not be treated
as FIR as their object only is to get the police to the scene of offence and not to
register the FIR. The said intention can also be clearly culled out from a bare
reading of Section 154 of the Criminal Procedure Code which states that the
information, if given orally, should be reduced in writing, read over to the
informant, signed by the informant and a copy of the same be given free of
cost to the informant.”

39. In Yanob Sheikh alias Gagu vs. State of West Bengal, reported in (2012)
6 SCC 428, It was observed by Hon’ble Apex court that “a First Information
Report normally should give the basic essential in relation to the commission of
a cognizable offence upon which the Investigation Officer can immediately start
his investigation in accordance with the provisions of Section 154 CrPC. It was
further observed that cryptic telephonic message cannot be treated as FIR as
their objective is only to get the police to the scene of offence and not to
register the FIR. Information which gives no details would not constitute First
Information Report as contemplated under Section 154 of the CrPC but there is
an obligation on the part of the police officer to register the information
received by him in respect of commission of a cognizable offence. In Crl. A. (J)
12/2012 Sarif Uddin Son of Mozaid Ali, Village: Ratanpur, Police Station —
Patherkandi, District: Karimganj, Assam. - Appellant - Versus — State of Assam -
Respondent Our home High Court held not exhibiting the GD Entry is a lapse on
the part of the prosecution and for this lapse, cause of justice cannot be
allowed to suffer, especially when no prejudice is caused to the accused
because of not exhibiting the same”.

40. Ejahar was lodged on the day of incident and PW-7 recorded statement
of witness, seized Gamosa and wet panty of the victim child, drawn sketch map

of the place of occurrence, bring victim child before doctor on 09-08-14 for
20|Page

medical examination, produced victim child before the Ld. Magistrate to record
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C all can safely be presumed that actual
investigation started only after lodging of the ejahar. Simply police rushed to
the place of occurrence to took custody of the accused from the public who was
caught hold by public on receipt of information of apprehending of a person
suspected to be committed illegal act cannot be treated as FIR and GD entry
no. 141 dated 08-08-14 cannot be termed as FIR and it has no impetus on Ext-
3 ejahar and I do not find any merit on the submission of Ld. defence counsel
and same is out rightly rejected. Therefore when Kamar Ali Talukdar is not
examined by prosecution same does not made any lacuna in the prosecution
case.

41. | Submission of Id. defence counsel is that PW-1 did not made statement
before police that he saw semen in the undergarment of the victim. PW-2 did
not state she found wet undergarment of her victim child. PW-5 did not state
police seized Gamosa of accused and wet panty of victim does not contradict
their statement when police seized wet undergarment of the victim child and
Gamosa of the accused and sent seized material for FSL examination and wet
undergarment of the victim gave positive test of human sperm and Gamosa
gave positive test of human blood and therefore submission of Id. defence
counsel is devoid of merit. There is no cross examination of defence side to
PW-1, PW-2, CW-1 or to other PWs such as PW-3, PW-4 and PW-5 with regard
to the argument of the defence side about regular visiting of CW-1 at accused
house. Hence this submission has no relevancy and is totally outside the
material on record. Prosecution by exhibiting the seizure list and seized article
Gamosa and panty duly authenticate the seizure of panty of the victim which is
green colour and Gamosa of the accused which is red border white body. Mere
fact that one 6 year old girl said different colour of the panty does not
invalidate the seizure item with the case in hand. CW-1 was aged about 4 years
old at the time of incident so there may be omission on her part when her
evidence was recorded after two years from the date of incident and under the
facts and circumstances entire evidence on record, material present on record,
nature of the offence, trauma suffered by her on account of sexual assault on
her at the very tender age may be the cause of her forgetting the actual colour
of the panty. As she faced most gruesome incident at the very tender age, it
drawn line on her brain on the said notorious incident that kill her very childish

character so she remember the cruel incident that took place on the day of
21|Page

incident and she in plain words stated before the court and that inspire
confidence.

42. In Krishan Lal Vs. State of Haryana 1980 AIR 1252, 1980 SCC (3) 305
held “ The tender years of the child, coupled with other circumstances
appearing in the case, such, for example as its demeanour, unlikelihood of
tutoring and so forth, may render corroboration unnecessary but that is a
question of fact in every case. The only rule of law is that this rule of prudence
must be present to the mind of the judge or the jury as the case may be and
be understood and appreciated by him or them. There is no rule of practice that
there must, in every case, be corroboration before a conviction can be allowed,
to stand." "It would be impossible, indeed it would be dangerous to formulate
the kind of evidence which should, or would, be regarded as corroboration. Its
nature and extent must necessarily vary with circumstances of each case and
also according to the particular circumstances of the offence charged."

43. Hon’ble Apex Court in Tarkeshwar Sahu Vs. State of Bihar held ““The
other important ingredient is penetration of the male organ within the labia
majora or the vulva or pudenda with or without any emission of semen or even
an attempt at penetration into the private part of the victim completely,
partially or slightly would be enough for the purpose of Sections 375 and 376
IPC. This Court had an occasion to deal with the basic ingredients of this
offence in the case of State of U.P. v. Babul Nath . In this case, this Court dealt
with the basic ingredients of the offence under Section 375 in the following
words:- "8. It may here be noticed that Section 375 of the IPC defines rape and
the Explanation to Section 375 reads as follows:

"Explanation: | Penetration is sufficient to constitute the sexual
intercourse necessary to the offence of rape."

From the Explanation reproduced above it is distinctly clear that
ingredients which are essential for proving a charge of rape are the
accomplishment of the act with force and resistance. To constitute the offence
of rape neither Section 375 of IPC nor the Explanation attached thereto require
that there should necessarily be complete penetration of the penis into the
private part of the victim/prosecutrix. In other words to constitute the offence
of rape it is not at all necessary that there should be complete penetration of
the male organ with emission of semen and rupture of hymen. Even partial or
slightest penetration of the male organ within the labia majora or the vulva or

pudenda with or without any emission of semen or even an attempt at
22|Page

penetration into the private part of the victim would be quite enough for the
purpose of Sections 375 and 376 of IPC. That being so it is quite possible to
commit legally the offence of rape even without causing any injury to the
genitals or leaving any seminal stains. But in the present case before us as
noticed above there is more than enough evidence positively showing that
there was sexual activity on the victim and she was subjected to sexual assault
without which she would not have sustained injuries of the nature found on her
private part by the doctor who examined her."

Further in Tarkeshwar Sahu Vs. State of Bihar Hon’ble Apex Court held
"The crux of the offence u/s 376 IPC is rape and it postulates a sexual
intercourse. The word "intercourse" means sexual connection. It may be
defined as mutual frequent action by members of independent organization. By
a metaphor the word "intercourse" like the word "commerce" is applied to the
relation of sexes. In intercourse there is temporary visitation of one
organization by a member of the other organization for certain clearly defined
and limited objects. The primary object of the visiting organization is to obtain
euphoria by means of a detent of the nerves consequent on the sexual crisis.
There is no intercourse unless the visiting member is enveloped at least
partially by the visited organization, for intercourse connotes reciprocity. In
intercourse between thighs the visiting male organ is enveloped at least
partially by the organism visited, the thighs; the thighs are kept together and
tight."

The word "penetrate", according to Concise Oxford Dictionary means
"find access into or through, pass through".

In order to constitute rape, what section 375 IPC requires is medical
evidence of penetration, and this may occur and the hymen remain intact. In
view of the explanation to section 375, mere penetration of penis in vagina is
an offence of rape. Slightest penetration is sufficient for conviction under
Section 376 IPC. Position of law in England is the same. To constitute the
offence of rape, there must be a penetration . Even the slightest, penetration
will be sufficient. Where a penetration was proved, but not of such a depth as
to injure the hymen, still it was held to be sufficient to constitute the crime of
rape. This principle has been laid down in R v. M'Rue and R v. Allen . In the
case of R v. Hughes and R v. Lines , the Court has taken the view that 'proof of
the rupture of the hymen is unnecessary’. In the case of R v. Marsden , the

Court has laid down that ‘it is now unnecessary to prove actual emission of
23|Page

seed; sexual intercourse is deemed complete upon proof of penetration only. In
the case of Nirmal Kumar v. State , the Court held as under:- "Even slightest
degree of penetration of the vulva by the penis with or without emission of
semen is sufficient to constitute the offence of rape. The accused in this case
had committed rape upon a minor girl aged 4 years and he could not explain
the reasons regarding congestion of labia majora, labia minora and redness of
inner side of labia minor and vaginal mucosa of victim. Stains of semen were
also found on the underwear worn by the accused. The conviction of accused
held proper."

The distinction between rape and criminal assault has been aptly
described in the English case Rex v. James Lloyd . In this case, while summing
up the charge to the jury, Justice Patterson observed: "In order to find the
prisoner guilty of an assault with intent to commit a rape, you must be satisfied
that the prisoner, when he laid hold of the prosecutrix, not only desired to
gratify his passions upon her person but that he intended to do so at all events,
and notwithstanding any resistance on her part."

44. In state of UP Vs. Chhoteylal Hon’ble Apex court in para no. 22 held
“The important thing that the court has to bear in mind is that what is lost by a
rape victim is face. The victim loses value as a person. Ours is a conservative
society and, therefore, a woman and more so a young unmarried woman will
not put her reputation in peril by alleging falsely about forcible sexual assault.
In examining the evidence of the prosecutrix the courts must be alive to the
conditions prevalent in the Indian society and must not be swayed by beliefs in
other countries. The courts must be sensitive and responsive to the plight of
the female victim of sexual assault. Society's belief and value systems need to
be kept uppermost in mind as rape is the worst form of woman's oppression. A
forcible sexual assault brings in humiliation, feeling of disgust, tremendous
embarrassment, sense of shame, trauma and lifelong emotional scar to a victim
and it is, therefore, most unlikely of a woman, and more so by a young woman,
roping in somebody falsely in the crime of rape. The stigma that attaches to the
victim of rape in Indian society ordinarily rules out the leveling of false
accusations. An Indian woman traditionally will not concoct an untruthful story
and bring charges of rape for the purpose of blackmail, hatred, spite or
revenge. This Court has repeatedly laid down the guidelines as to how the
evidence of the prosecutrix in the crime of rape should be evaluated by the

court.
24|Page

45. Scenario that were coming out from the evidence on record is summed

up below:- i) victim child went to nearby grocery shop of her house;

ii) She did not return home;
iii) PW-2, mother of the victim, PW-4 and PW-5 heard cry of the victim
child;

iv) PW-2 came out from kitchen and she senses cry of her child is
coming out from the house of accused and she rushed to the house
of accused;

Vv) On reaching house of accused she finds her daughter naked and
accused is sitting above the victim child in the room of the accused
house;

vi) Seeing PW-2’s arrival accused pushing her run away from the place
of occurrence;

vii) PW-5 one of the adjacent neighbour of the accused heard crying of
the victim child coming out from accused house and rushed to
accused house next to PW-2;

viii) | On reaching accused house she found victim child naked and she
was crying and accused seeing her and Pw-2 run away from the
place of occurrence;

ix) PW-4 also seen victim child naked in the house of accused and
accused run away from the place of occurrence;

x) Hue and cry was took place and villager rushed to place of
occurrence and got to know about the incident;

xi) PW-2, Pw-3, PW-4 and PW-6 noticed panty of the child wet;

xii) Villager apprehend the accused and called police and hand over
accused to police;

xiii) | Police took custody of the accused seized wet panty of the victim
and gamosa of the accused containing blood stain and send to FSL
for examination;

xiv) | FSL examination report gave positive test of sperm in the panty of
the child victim and presence of human blood in the gamosa of the
accused;

xv) — Victim child in her all the statement stated she was raped by the
accused and PW-2, witness accused above the victim and victim was
naked and her panty was wet and victim child disclosed incident to

her mother and others.
25|Page

46. — To full fill the ingredients of section 3 of the POCSO Act, prosecution
only need to bring on record that accused had penetrate his penis not the
penetration of the victim is required and accused had insert penis or any object
into the vagina, mouth, urethra, anus or manipulate any of the part of the body
of the child and make the child to do the same full fill the ingredients of section
3 of the POCSO Act. Complete insertion of penis is not required. In the case in
hand accused was sitting above the victim after undressing her and her panty
was wet containing human sperm is sufficient to bring home the ingredients of
section 3 of the POCSO Act to establish the prosecution charge of section 4
leveled against the accused. Coupled with the aforesaid decision and on
scanning of the evidence of victim child, I find her testimonies firm, cogent, un-
rebutted. The testimonies of PW-2, PW-4, PW-5 who rushed to the place of
occurrence and saw accused running away from the place of occurrence given
more strength to the prosecution evidence.
47. Upon entire scrutiny of the evidence on record it only goes to show that
on the date of incident accused Bellal taken away the victim child to his house
when she went to nearby grocery shop and committed penetrative sexual
assault on victim child who was aged about 4 years at the time of incident. In
the case in hand prosecution beyond all reasonable doubt fairly able to bring
home the charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused Bellal and
accused failed to dislocate the prosecution charge leveled against him.
CONCLUSION
48. Section 29 of POCSO Act says “Presumption as to certain offences.-
where a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to
commit any offence under sections 3, 5, 7 and section 9 of this Act, the Special
Court shall presume, that such person has committed or abetted or attempted
to commit the offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is proved”
49. Evidence on record clearly pointed that accused Bellal Hussain
committed penetrative sexual assault (rape) on victim after calling her to his
house in the name of giving sugarcane to the victim child and her evidence
alone is sufficient to book accused guilty of commission of the prosecution
charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act against accused. More so in the case in hand
evidence of victim is corroborated by the evidence of other PWs and there is no
rebuttal of the prosecution evidence and testimonies of PW-2, PW-4, PW-5

remains un shaken and inspires confidence and accordingly acted upon.
26|Page

50. Section 29 of the POCSO Act draws presumption that if sexual assault is
alleged by a minor unless it is rebutted by the accused it is presumed that
accused had committed sexual assault on the minor as alleged. In the case in
hand victim in a cogent manner in specific words stated that accused
committed rape on her forcefully and rape amounted to penetrative sexual
assault within the meaning of section 3 of the POCSO Act and same is
punishable under section 4 of the POCSO Act and I do not find any space/room
to disbelief the evidence of victim of the case and her piece of evidence is
accepted beyond all reasonable doubt against the accused. Accordingly I come
to my considerate judicious finding that prosecution fairly able to establish the
charge of section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused Bellal Hussain
beyond all reasonable doubt and I hold him guilty u/s 4 of the POCSO Act and
accordingly accused Bellal Hussain is convicted u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.

51. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and nature of the
offence committed by the convicted accused Bellal Hussain, he is not entitled
the benefit of Probation of Offender Act or section 360 I.P.C. Accordingly,

convicted accused Bellal Hussain is heard on the point of sentence.
HEARING ON SENTENCE

52. I have heard accused and his counsel and prosecution side on the point
of sentence. Accused pleaded mercy and his sentence is written in a separate
sheet enclosed with the case record. Ld. Accused counsel prayed for leniency
considering the fact that accused is only earning member of the family and he
is to look after his ailing father and mother and his children. Ld. Addl. P.P
submits that accused be sentenced in accordance with law.

53. Considering the nature of the offence and facts and circumstances
under which accused have committed the offence of rape on victim girl, spoiling
of her life, loss of chastity and womanhood, mental agony suffered by the
victim in view of the rape and her future agony because of the rape committed
on her, her status and future life in the society because of the rape, and
increasing number of sexual assault on child, I am of the opinion that accused
does not deserve any leniency and he is to be dealt with exemplary

punishment.
27|Page
RESULT

54. Accordingly, convicted accused Bellal Hussain is sentenced to undergo
rigorous imprisonment for life and to pay fine of Rs. 25,000/- i/d another 1 1%
years R.I. u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.

ORDER
55. Accused Bellal Hussain is found guilty u/s 4 of the POCSO Act and he is

convicted u/s 4 of the POCSO Act and he is sentenced to undergo rigorous

 

imprisonment for life and to pay fine of Rs. 25,000/- i/d another 1 % years R.I.
u/s 4 of the POCSO Act. Surety of accused Bellal Hussain stands discharged.
56. Period under detention is set off u/s 428 Cr.P.C. Let furnish free copy of
Judgment to convicted accused Bellal Hussain.

57. Seized goods be disposed of in accordance with law in due course of
time.

58. The convicted accused is told that he has right to appeal against the
judgment and order of this court before Hon’ble High court through the jail
authority or independently of his own. Convicted accused is further informed
that he is entitled free legal aid to prefer appeal before the Hon’ble High court.
59. Right to life and protection is a fundamental right and none can snatch
it and state duty is to protect life of person and his property. Increasing number
of crime in the society means failure on the part of state to protect the life and
property of the citizen of the State and State has to compensate the same to
the victim of the case. Form the evidence on record it is appeared that CW-1
who is a minor is a victim of rape (sexual assault) case and due to rape on her
she immensely suffered mental agony which is not measurable, countable and
not perceivable and because of the rape her esteem is effected and her agony
is not countable. In murder case person is killed but in respect of rape/sexual
assault upon victim, the very soul of the victim killed, she lost her chastity
which is the most valuable assets of the girl/woman, her dignity, esteem in the
society lowered and she is made to suffer and she is looked in other ways for
no fault of her and therefore, she being victim of rape case needs rehabilitation
for her future security and therefore, I find victim of this case CW-1, who is
made to suffer at her very tender age of her life entitled compensation u/s 357
A Cr.P.C under Victim Compensation Scheme for her secured future and
accordingly Ld. Secretary DLSA, Dhubri will determine the quantum of the

compensation payable to the CW-1 victim of this case.
28| Page

60. Send copy of judgment and order along with copy of charge sheet to
learned secretary DLSA, Dhubri for determination of the quantum of
compensation under the victim compensation scheme under section 357-A
(il aks

61. Send copy of judgment to learned District Magistrate Dhubri u/s 365
CrP.

62. Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 25" day of January,
2019 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Dictated and Corrected by me,
(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Typed by,
Swmkhwr Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.
29|Page
APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

PW-1 Sultan Ali,

PW-2 Moniza Bibi,

PW-3 Abbas Ali,

PW-4 Abu Shama Sk,

PW-5 Mustt. Fatema Bibi,

PW-6 Mr. Sankar Chandra Rabha (FSL expert),
PW-7 ASI Nirendra Ch. Nath (1.0),

PW-8 Dr. Rinku Ahmed( M.O).

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 FSL report,
Ext-2 forwarding letter,
Ext-3 Ejahar,
Ext-4 Sketch Map,
Ext-5 Seizure list,
Ext-6 Seizure list,
Ext-7 Statement of victim girl recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C and
Ext-8 Charge sheet.

DEFENCE WITNESS _ :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT EXHIBITS ™ NIL
COURT WITNESS fs CW-1 Miss X, ( victim child)

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
