e]

 

Judge Spl. Court
Baksa, Mushalpur

IN THE SPECIAL COURT, BAKSA czisssersssestsssssissseessesetsetssssssesetessss AT MUSHALPUR

Present : Shri C. Das
Judge, Special Court
Baksa, Mushalpur

JUDGMENT IN SPECAIL POCSO CASE NO.41/2018
u/s 4 of POCSO Act r/w Section 366 IPC

State

-versus-

Sri Uday Kalita

.... Accused

Appearance :
For the State : Mr. R. Chetry, Public Prosecutor, Baksa

For the accused: Mr. A. Rabha, P. Das, R. Barman, Advocates

Date of recording evidence : 8.8.18, 9.11.18
Date of argument : 5.3.19
Date of judgment : 19.3.19

JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution briefly, is that on 13.8.17, the
complainant Sri Ganesh Bayan lodged a FIR before the Officer-in-charge of
Mushalpur police station, alleging inter-alias that on 9.8.17 at about 4 pm., while his
15 years old daughter/ victim girl (name is withheld) went out oh the home to go to
her uncle's house, but on her way, some culprits kidnapped her From the road. After
searching his daughter, later on, he came to know that the accused kidnapped his
daughter from the road to Chennai. He alleged Further that the father of the
accused admitted about involvement of the accused in the occurrence. But he

could not find out whereabout of the accused in Chennai.

2, The police accordingly, registered the Mushalpur PS. Case
No.85/2017 and started its investigation. During the investigation, the I/O visited
  
  
 

iv

—
Judge Spl. Court
Baksa, Mushalpur

- the place of occurrence, drew its sketch map and examined the witnesses. He also,
seized the birth certificate of the victim girl and recovered the victim. The I/O sent

the victim For medical examination and recording her statement u/s 164 of Code of

'Criminal Procedure (in short ; the CrPC ) after her recovery. Further, the I/O handed

: ' re j over the victim girl to her legal guardian and collected the all necessary documents

of the case. The I/O arrested the accused. At the end of the investigation, the I/O
having found a prima-facie case well established, submitted the charge-sheet

against the accused to face trial in the court.

3. The accused when appeared in the court, he was Furnished with the
relevant copies of the case immediately. After hearing both the sides and on
perusal of the materials on record, the charge u/s 366 IPC r/w Section 4 of POCSO
Act was framed against the accused person. The charge so framed, was read over

and explained to the accused who pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution during the trial, examined as many as, 5(five)
witnesses including the victim girl to support its case. In the statement recorded
u/s 313 of CrPC., the accused person denied all incriminating circumstances
appeared against him in the evidence. But the accused declined to adduce any
defence evidence in his favour. The argument of the parties was heard at length

and perused the evidence on record.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ;

5. Whether on 9/8/17 at about 4 pm., at village; Srirpurdeor (Khanalia
supa), the accused kidnapped the victim girl with intent that she may be compelled
to marry against her will or in order that she may be forced or seduced to illicit

intercourse with another person;

6. Whether on same day, time and place as above, the accused

committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl For Five days;

DICISION AND REASON THEREFORE :

7. Learned Public Prosecutor initiating the argument, submitted that it
is a case where the minor victim girl was First kidnapped From her lawful guardian

by the accused and then, committed sexual assault upon her for few days which
leads to Filing of the FIR by the informant and her legal guardian. He submitted
Further that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses along with the testimony of
‘the victim clearly shows the involvement of the accused in the offence as alleged

& jand as such, there is no other view comes out except the guilt of the accused. He
fi 7 submitted that in such type of cases where sexual offence is committed, the sole

testimony of the victim girl without treating her as an accomplice to the offence,

 

can be the basis of conviction of the accused. Hence, the accused is liable to be

punished as per provisions of law, he urged.

8. Per contra, learned counsel for the accused submitted that there is
no evidence of the prosecution witnesses which can implicate the accused in the
offence as alleged. IF the evidence of the evidence of the victim girl is perused, ti
would disclose that there was love affairs between them and for that she went
with the accused and thus, it can easily be held that the case is of elopement and
not of kidnapping of the victim by the accused. He submitted further that the
evidence of the prosecution witnesses cannot be relied upon to hold that the
accused committed the offence of kidnapping of the victim girl from her lawful
guardian. Moreover, there is much delay in lodging the FIR without showing
sufficient cause of it which indicates of concealing the real facts by the
complainant, thereby creating doubt over the prosecution case and as such, the
accused is entitled to be acquitted.

9. It appears that the prosecution examined the complainant Sri
Ganesh Bayan as PW1. He is the Father of the victim girl. He deposed inter-alias that
on the Fateful day at about 3.30 pm the victim girl went out to the house of her
uncle to stitch some cloths. But the victim girl thereafter was missing. He searched
For the victim girl but could not trace her out. Hence, after 3 days, he filed the FIR
vide Ext.1 with his signature. According to PW1, the police recovered the victim girl
after a week. The victim girl was sent for medical examination and recording her
statement in the court. On his inquiry, the victim girl told him that the accused took

her away to Chennai.

b 10. In the cross-examination, PW1 stated that he filed the FIR on
Judge Spl. Court 13.8.17. He did not mention the reason of delay in filing the FIR in Ext.1. He
Baksa, Mushalpur mentioned in Est.1 that he suspected that the accused took away his daughter to

Chennai. The police recovered the victim From Mushalpur. He could say whereabout
of his missing daughter for one week. PW1 corroborates the claim of the

prosecution regarding taking away the victim girl.
 
   
   

judg

11, PW2 is the victim girl. Her name is withheld due to bar under the
law. She was examined in camera in presence of her father. She stated inter-alias

». that on the Fateful day at about 3 pm., her mother assaulted her physically for her

z failure to draw her attention to her study. Hence out of her anger, she left For the

-" g house of her aunt. But her aunt was absent in her house. Therefore, she went with

e Spl. Court

{ Gag tt
RASTA S
Niust

the accused for a strolling. She went to Jorhat with the accused where her aunt
resided. She informed her mother over phone regarding her stay in her aunt's
house. Someone told her mother that the accused kidnapped her. As such, the FIR
was filed. After few days, she returned to her home. Her Father specified her not to
leave home on such minor reason. The police took her for medical examination and
Ext.2 is her medical report with her signature. She made her statement vide Ext.3
with her signatures. She was in Class-IX at the time of occurrence. But she was 18

years of age at that time. The accused is not related to her by blood.

12. In the cross-examination, PW2 stated that her Father Filed the case
without consulting her about the facts. The accused did not Force her to go with
him. She refused medical examination since the accused did not cause any sexual
assault upon her. She made her statement in Ext.3 as tutored by her mother. She
stated Further that she failed in her class examination thrice before reaching Class-
IX. Thus, the evidence of the victim girl does not lend support to the prosecution

case.

13. PW3 Smti. Tarulata Bayan is the mother of the victim girl and wife of
PW1. She stated that the victim girl was very weak in her study. Hence, she rebuked
the victim to attend to her study properly. Thereafter, the victim went out of the
house to the house of the aunt. From there, the victim went to Gujarat with her
uncle and aunt. The police seized the birth certificate of the victim vide Ext.4 with

her signature.

14. In the cross-examination, PW3 stated that her husband Filed the
case due to pressure From local persons. She tutored the victim to make statement
before the Magistrate. The victim was 18 years of age at the time of occurrence.
She had no knowledge about the contents in Ext.4. Apparently, PW3 lends no
support to the version of PW1.

15. PW4 Pranjit Bayan deposed inter-alias that before the day of
occurrence, the mother of the victim assaulted the victim physically For her poor

attention to her study. Hence, the victim out of her anger, went to the house of the
 

accused. Accordingly, the victim was missing from 4 pm. Mother of the victim
inquired about the victim to him but he could not give any clue. The whereabout of

the victim was not known till the night. So, the FIR was lodged. After 12 days

x % whereabout of the victim was known through the police. It was informed that the

f x j victim was at the police station. Accordingly, he went to the police station and

brought back the victim to her home. He stated that the victim was 18 years of age

at the time of occurrence.

16. The evidence of PWS Narakanta Kalita is that the informant told him

that the victim was missing and as such, he came in search of the girl.

17. Apparently, From the above evidence of the Prosecution witnesses,
it appears that the victim girl went missing from her home on the fateful day. But
the evidence of PW1, 2 and 3 is never consistent on the material point and it is
Found to be full of major discrepancies and contradictions between them. The
evidence of PW1 discloses that he came to know that the accused took away the
victim after her missing. But PW2 stated that she went for a strolling with the
accused to her aunt's house without force by the accused. Apparently, she went
with the accused on her own will and her evidence does not disclose that she went
on missing as stated by PW1. The evidence of PW3 shows that PW3 never
implicated the accused while she is the mother of the victim girl. Her version
discloses that the victim went to Gujarat to her uncles' house. The evidence of PW3
does not show that PW2 went missing as claimed by PW1. Thus, such evidence of
the prosecution witnesses has weakened the version of the Prosecution story with
doubt over the allegation of kidnapping of the victim girl by the accused. IF the
victim went to the house of her uncle, it does not appear that the accused was
involved the offence of kidnapping the victim from her lawful guardian. As far as
the age of the victim is concerned, the I/O seized her birth certificate vide Ext.4.
There is no dispute raised regarding the authenticity of Ext.4. Thus, in the Ext.4, the
birth certificate of the victim shows that age of the victim was less than 15 years.

Hence, the victim was a minor at the time of occurrence.

18. The accused is alleged to have committed the offence u/s 366 IPC
and section 4 of POCSO Act. The offence u/s 366 IPC mandates For the First part of
the section--

1) The accused kidnapped or abducted a woman;

2) The accused intended or knew it likely that -

a) the woman abducted or kidnapped would be compelled to marry
 

    

—2

_ rt
sage Spl. Cou
cae Mushalpur

any person against her own will, or
b) she would be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse.
For the second part of the section —
1) Accused induced any woman to go from certain place;
2) Accused did it by criminally intimidating her ;
3) He did so by abuse of his authority; or
4) He did so by any method of compulsion ;
5) Accused intended or knew it likely that such woman would be forced or
seduced to illicit intercourse.

19, On the other hand, the offence u/s 4 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act makes such offence is punishable under POCSO Act (in short :
the POCSO Act) as defined u/s 3 of the POCSO Act that a person is said to commit
“penetrative sexual assault’ if--
(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or
anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or
(b) he insets, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the
penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the child to
do so with him or any other person; or
(c) he manipulates any part of the child so as to cause penetration into the
vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the child or makes the child to
do so with him or any other person ; or
(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the child or

makes the child to do so to such person or any other person.

20. IF the evidence of PW2 who is the sole victim of the occurrence of
this case is perused, it would show that she was never kidnapped or abducted by
the accused. She claims that she went to with the accused without being Forced by
the accused. Hence, the case of the victim cannot be termed as abduction as there
is no apparent, force used by the accused. Since PW2 stated that she went to her
uncles’ house and for strolling with the accused to Gujarat, it cannot be held that
the accused kidnapped her from the lawful custody of her guardian. It can be said
that from the evidence of PW1 that the accused took away the victim from her

lawful custody even though it was not purely kidnapping or abduction.

21. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in (1979) SCC 336 Chote Lal vs. State
of Haryana, held that Besides proving the fact of abduction, it is also, necessary to

prove that it was for one of the purposes mentioned in the section.
 
  
 

judge

Baksa.

Spl. coun
Nushalpuf

22. However, in Nawabkhan vs. State 1990 Cri. LJ 1179 (MP) it was
held that Use of force is not an essential ingredient of offence u/s 366 IPC. Abduction
and kidnapping can be achieved by deceitful means. Thus, the above law has
settled the requirements u/s 366 IPC.

; 23. In Kabita Chandrakanta Lakhani vs. State of Maharashtra (2018) 6

SCC 664, wherein, it was held that the volition, the intention and the conduct of the
accused is necessary to determine the offence. That to establish an offence u/s
366 IPC mere finding that a woman was abducted is not enough, it must
further be proved that the accused abducted the woman with the intent that
she may be compelled to marry a person against her own will or may be forced
or seduced or knowing it to be likely that she will be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse. Unless prosecution proves that abduction is for purposes
mentioned u/s 366 IPC, court cannot hold the accused guilty and punish him
u/s 366 IPC.

24. Thus, From the above law, it can be said that if on one hand, the
prosecution proves the abduction of a woman, on the other, it has to prove that
such abduction was aimed at for using the woman for illicit intercourse or to marry
against her own will to complete the ingredients of the section 366 IPC. Apart from
that if there are deceitful means in the abduction or kidnapping, force may not be
the vital factor to complete the offence.

25. In the case in hand, it appears that there is no evidence on record
that the accused used Force or seduce the victim to marry against her own will and
to involved her in illicit intercourse with any person apart from using Force or any
deceitful means to the victim to take her away. Hence, the ofence u/s 366 IPC is not
attracted to against the accused. Further, it appears that PW2 never stated that the
accused some kind of sexual assault upon her by method of penetration into her
vagina, urethra or anus. If the victim did not adduce any evidence to that effect, the
accused cannot be held u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

26. Under the above facts and circumstances of the case, the
sresecution has Failed to prove its case against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt. Accordingly, the accused is held not guilty u/s 366 IPC r/w section 4 of
POCSO Act. The accused is acquitted and set at liberty. However, his bail bond shall
stand extended for another 6 months u/s 437-A of CrPC. The seized articles shall be

returned to its owner as claimed in due course of time. Forward a copy of
judgment to the District Magistrate, Baksa, Mushalpur u/s 365 of CrPC. It appears
that the victim is entitled to get monetary compensation. Hence, this court

Ss Fecommends For payment of compensation of Rs.1Lakh to the victim by the DLSA
ye “\Baksa under Assam Victim Compensation Scheme.

Given under the hand and seal of this court on this 19" day of March

 

Dictated and corrected by:

fae BBL Cour fae unt
Baksa

_Mushaia::
Baksa, Mushalpur shaleur “

Typed by:
P. Deka, Com. Typist
ANNEXURE :

List of prosecution witness:

PW1 ... Sri Ganesh Bayan ... complainant
PW2 ... the victim girl (name is withheld)
PW3 ... Smti. Tarulata Bayan

PW4 ... Sri Pranjit Bayan

PWS ... Sri Narakanta Kalita

 

List of defence witness:
Nil

List of documents exhibited :
Ext.1... FIR
Ext.2 ... medical report
Ext.3 ... statement of the victim

Ext.4 ... seizure list

Jud Ree ul
J
ugg ate uShalpu f
r

Baksa, Mushalpu
