eCourtIS Copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC)::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,
Addl. Sessions Judge (FTC),

Kokrajhar.
SPECIAL CASE NO.22/2018
U/S. 4 of The Protection of Children
from Sexual Offences Act, 2012
STATE OF ASSAM
Vs
Sri Romjan Ali
Med. Abed Ali
Vill:- Ajmal Model village, P.S.
Kokrajhar.
beneeaes Accused person.
Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghosh, Special P.P
Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. Narayan Sarkar
Charge framed on 16.11.2018
Evidence recorded on 15.12.2018,
7.1.2019
Argument heard on 25.1.2019

Judgment pronounced on 25.1.2019
JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that on 20.5.2018 one xxxx, the
father of the victim, lodged a writen FIR at Kokrajhar Police Station
alleging that on 20.05.2018 at about 12.30 a.m the accused induced
his daughter, the victim, and having taken her to a nearby abandoned

house committed rape on her, by force.

2. On receipt of the FIR, a case U/S 4/8 of the The Protection of

Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act) was registered
eCourtIS Copy
and investigated. After completion of the investigation, a charge
sheet was laid against the accused Romjan Ali for commission of

offence U/S 4 of the POCSO Act.

3. The accused person was summoned and on his appearance,
copies of the relevant documents were furnished to him. The case

was, later, transferred to this Court for disposal.

4. A charge U/S 4 of the POCSO Act was framed against the

accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. In the course of trial, prosecution examined 5 witnesses. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined
U/S 313 of the Cr.PC. The defence plea is of total denial and the

accused declined to adduce any evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused commiited the act of penetrative
sexual assault on the victim and thereby committed an offence

under Section 4 of the POCSO Act?

DECISION AND REASONS :

6. Pw 1 is the victim of this case. She deposed that the
occurrence took place about 5 months back at about 12 night. At that
time, she was talking to accused Ramjan at a nearby place. One co-
villager, Faisal, came at that time and started shouting. Later,
villagers gathered and some one informed police. Few moments later,
Police came to the place of occurrence and took her. Ramjan had fled

away in the meanwhile. Pw 1 also deposed that the villagers told her
eCourtIS Copy

father to lodge a case to protect her name.

7. The learned Special PP took leave of the Court to cross
examine the pw 1 and after the leave was granted, pw 1 was cross
examined by the learned Special PP. In her cross examination by
learned Special PP, pw 1 deposed that she had given a statement
under Section 164 CrPC before the Judicial Magistrate. Ext 1 is her
statement. Ext 1 (1), Ext 1 (2) are her signatures. She admitted that
she had stated before the Magistrate that she voluntarily had sexual
relationship with the accused on many occasion in different places.
She also admitted that after the lodging of FIR, accused has entered

into marriage agreement with her.

8. In her cross -examination by the defence, pw 1 stated that she
had stated about sexual intercourse with the accused because her
village people asked her to state so. She deposed that in-fact accused

never had any sexual relationship with her.

9. Pw 2, is the father of the victim and he deposed that the
occurrence took place about 5 months back and that his daughter
and accused Ramjan love each other. On the day of ocurrence, at
night hours, his daughter was talking to accused at a place. Someone
informed the police and my daughter was picked up by police. |

lodged the FIR. | had given thumb impression in the FIR.

10. The learned Special PP took leave of the Court to cross
examine the pw 2 and the after the leave was granted, pw 2 was
cross examined by the learned Special P.P. In his cross-examination,

pw 2 admitted that he had stated before the police that his daughter
eCourtIS Copy
is aged 16 years. He admitted that there has been an agreement that
accused will marry his daughter and that is why he has settled the

dispute.

11. In cross-examination by the defence, pw 2 deposed that the

accused has not commiited any sexual intercourse with his daughter.

12. Pw 3 Faizal Hoque deposed that the occurrence took place
about 5 months back. He had come out of his residence at 11.30 p.m
for relieving. At that time he saw some movements in a house and
started shouting. A boy fled away from the house but he could not
recognize him. Later, villagers assembled and the girl, the victim, was
found in the house. From the victim he came to know that the boy

was Ramjan. Later, police came and took away the victim.

13. Pw 4 Anowar Hussain deposed that about 5 months back, at
about 11.30 p.m, while he was sleeping, he heard Faisal shouting as
“thief”, “thief”. When he went to the place of occurrence, he found
the victim in the house and she told him that she loves accused

Ramjan. Later, police came and took away the victim.

14. Pw 5 Nur Islam Ahmed is the Investigating Officer of the case
and he deposed in his examination in chief that pw 1, the victim,
stated before him that accused had committed sexual intercourse

with her.

15. The perusal of the evidence on record reveals that even though
the learned Special P.P had sought the leave of the Court to declare
the pw 1 and pw 2 as hostile witnesses, he cross-examined them only

with respect to their statements under Section 161 CrPC. The
eCourtIS Copy
Investigating Officer, pw 5 has confirmed only the statement of the
pw 1 and pw 2 as made to him under Section 161 CrPC. A
statatement under Section 161 CrPC is not an evidence in the eye of
law and hence even if the victim has stated in her statement under
Section 161 CrPC that accused did have sexual intercourse with her,
such an evidence would have no utility in the eye of law. What is

essential is the evidence tendered in Court.

16. So far as the evidence tendered in Court is concerned, the
victim categorically stated that accused did not have sexual
intercourse with her. In view of the evidence on record, no conviction

under Section 4 of the POCSO Act can be sustained.

17. In the result, the point for determination is answered in

negative.

ORDER
Accused Romjan Ali is acquitted of the charge under Section 4
of the POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.
Bail bonds shall remain valid for six months.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court.

Dictated by: -

Addl. Special Judge, Addl Special Judge

Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
eCourtIS Copy

APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses: -

l.

2

3.

4.

as

Pw 1 -victim

Pw 2- father of the victim
Pw 3- Faizal Hoque

Pw 4-Anowar Hussain

Pw 5-Nur Islam Ahmed, Investigating Officer

Defence Evidence-

l.

Nil

Court evidence

l.

Nil

Addl. Special Judge,

Kokrajhar
