er

 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 13/2018.

(Under Section10 of the POCSO Act)

State
Versus
AN Se Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance and particulars :-

For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.

For the accused person :- Sri K.U. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.

Date of recording evidence :- 28.8.2018, 5.10.2018, 4.12.2018, 19.1.2019.,
Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC :- 01.02.2019.

Date of Argument s7- ROMA ROLS,
Date of Judgment - - 05.03.2019,
JUDGMENT
x, The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 10.06.2018 the

informant Kalyani Mazumder, Principal of Aaka-Shekha Art School, Lala, lodged an
ejahar with the Officer-in-charge, Lala Police Station alleging that on the same day
at about 2 PM the accused person Akash Nath, a Teacher of the Aaka-Shekha Art
School, with evil intention caught the hand of the victim (name withheld), aged
about 12 years, in the class room and dragged her forcefully.

as On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as Lala P.S.
Case No. 223/2018 under Sec. 10 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and during investigation,
CONG siticevonrts P/2,
 

ecial (POCS -1 se No. 13/2018.
-2-
police visited the place of occurrence, drew up rough sketch map thereof, recorded
statements of witnesses, got the victim medically examined and also got her
statement recorded under Sec. 164, CPC, arrested the accused person and

forwarded him to the court and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against the accused person Akash Nath under Sec. 10 of the POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of accused person Akash Nath, copies of
relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to him.

4. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence
Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record, having found sufficient
grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed the offence, the
formal charge has been framed against the accused person Akash Nath under Sec.
10 of the POCSO Act. The charge so framed was read over and explained to the
accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, the
trial.

5. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined 6 Nos. of
PW including Medical Officer and Investigating Officer. The accused person
wasexamined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he denied all the allegations levelled
against him by the prosecutionwitnesses and further stated that the relevant time,
he was working as a teacher at Aka Sekha Arts School and on 10.6.2018 he was
imparting arts to the victim in the said school. He has further stated that the
Principal of Aaka Sekha Arts School was not paying his salary since last one year
before the incident and he made repeated demand for his salary but paid no heed to
his demand, thereafter on the relevant day, he pressurized the Principal to release
his salary, to which the Principal replied that on the next day, she would clear the
arrear money and thereafter, he started proceeding towards his home and when he
boarded a bus at Hailakandi Bus stand, some people attacked him for no reason and
therefore, he realized that the Principal has engineered the case only to get rid of
CON Aes P/.
 

ecial (P T-1 se No. 13/2018.
>
the money payable to him. The defence did not adduce any evidence.
6. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.
POINT FOR DETERMINATION

Whether the accused person on 10.06.2018 at about 2 P.M. in
his school at B.T. Road, Lala, being a Teacher, committed aggravated sexual assault
on his student viz. the victim aged 12 years and thereby committed an offence
punishable under Section 10 of the POCSO Act, 2012?

DI ION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. Before entering into the merits of the case, at the very outset,
it is apposite to go through the evidence available on record and therefore, the
relevant evidence adduced by the prosecution witnesses has been reproduced

below:-

The PW. 1, the victim, has deposed that on 10.6.2018 she and
her friend Sukanya Nath were in the class room of Aaka Shekha Art School. The
Principal was present in the Art school in a different room. At that time, the accused
appeared in the class and asked her friend Sukanya to leave the room saying that
Sukanya is too much talkative girl. Thereafter, Sukanya went out of the class room.
While she was drawing art, the accused came near her and was coming close to her,
she also was shifting herself maintaining a distance from the accused. Then the
accused asked her as to why she was going far from him and thereafter, the
accused touched her chest and she forcefully moved his hand from her body. Then,
the accused asked her to promise that she would not disclose the same to anybody
and by saying the same, the accused left the room. Thereafter, she went to her
house and narrated the entire incident to her parents and also informed the same to
the Principal over telephone. The Principal lodged the FIR. Police got her medically

CORT veniicestnn P/4,
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 13/2018.

-4-

examined and also her statement was recorded by Magistrate under Sec. 164, CrPC
vide Ext. 1. Police seized her birth certificate vide Ext. 2.

In cross examination, she has stated that at the relevant time,
she was a student of Class Adya in the Art school. There are 10 classes in the
school. In the first floor of the building, her class room is situated. There are 4
rooms in the first floor. Some of the guardians take their children to the school. The
school building is situated to the North-South direction. The northern room is the
last room of first floor where her class was held. In front of her class, there are
benches on which guardians sit. In every Sunday, classes are being held. There are
total 3 teachers in the school. She does not know the residence of the accused as
well as the Principal and other teachers. The room in which teachers sit and the
room in which she was sitting are intervened by another room. The Art School starts
at 12 Noon and ends by 2 P.M. Before she reached her home, she did not disclose
about the incident to anybody. On the relevant day, after the incident she went to
her home and thereafter, she did not come to school again.

8. The PW-2, Smt. Kalyani Mazumder, Principal of the Aka
Shekha Academy, has deposed that on 10.06.2018 it was Sunday and on that day,
the victim came to Art School and after the school was over, the victim left for her
home. On the same day at about 3 P.M., victim again came with her father and
uncle to the school and reported her that while she was in the class room alone, the
accused caught her hand and touched her chest. Thereafter, she (PW-2) took them
to the police station and she (PW-2) lodged the FIR vide Ext.-3. After the incident,

she discharged the accused from her academy.

In cross examination, she has stated that the accused was
working in the academy since two years before the incident. The students attend
school along with their guardians. At the relevant, there were 4 teachers including
her. She knows the residence of the victim. She lodged the FIR after meeting the

OE coscinsase P/5.
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 13/2018.

-4-

examined and also her statement was recorded by Magistrate under Sec. 164, CrPC
vide Ext. 1. Police seized her birth certificate vide Ext. 2.

In cross examination, she has stated that at the relevant time,
she was a student of Class Adya in the Art school. There are 10 classes in the
school. In the first floor of the building, her class room is situated. There are 4
rooms in the first floor. Some of the guardians take their children to the school. The
school building is situated to the North-South direction. The northern room is the
last room of first floor where her class was held. In front of her class, there are
benches on which guardians sit. In every Sunday, classes are being held. There are
total 3 teachers in the school. She does not know the residence of the accused as
well as the Principal and other teachers. The room in which teachers sit and the
room in which she was sitting are intervened by another room. The Art School starts
at 12 Noon and ends by 2 P.M. Before she reached her home, she did not disclose
about the incident to anybody. On the relevant day, after the incident she went to
her home and thereafter, she did not come to school again.

8. The PW-2, Smt. Kalyani Mazumder, Principal of the Aka
Shekha Academy, has deposed that on 10.06.2018 it was Sunday and on that day,
the victim came to Art School and after the school was over, the victim left for her
home. On the same day at about 3 P.M., victim again came with her father and
uncle to the school and reported her that while she was in the class room alone, the
accused caught her hand and touched her chest. Thereafter, she (PW-2) took them
to the police station and she (PW-2) lodged the FIR vide Ext.-3. After the incident,
she discharged the accused from her academy.

In cross examination, she has stated that the accused was
working in the academy since two years before the incident. The students attend
school along with their guardians. At the relevant, there were 4 teachers including
her. She knows the residence of the victim. She lodged the FIR after meeting the

RANA sivctissi P/5.
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 13/2018.

-5-

victim. At about 3/3:30 P.M. the victim came to her and she lodged the FIR at about
6:30 P.M. The FIR was scribed as per her version. In the FIR she mentioned that the
accused with evil intention touched the victim but she did not state specifically that
the accused touched the chest of victim. On the relevant day, the accused as usual
after the school was getting over, left for his house. She has further stated that
when the victim reported her about the incident, there were 2 other teachers also
present and they are Ritu Agarwal and Biswajit. There was no any allegation against
the accused prior to the incident.

9. The PW-3, Sri Pankaj Deb has deposed that he knows the
accused Akash Nath as well as the informant Kalyani Mazumder. On 10.06.2018 at
about 2 P.M. his niece (victim) returned home from Art School namely Aka Shekha
Academy and was crying and told his sister i.e. victim’s mother that the accused
touched her chest with bad intention which his sister informed him over phone.
Thereafter, he along with others went to school and talked to the Principal. They
started searching the accused but did not find him in the school. Then they came to
Hailakandi Town and found the accused in a vehicle near S.S. College, Hailakandi.
They apprehended the accused and handed over him to Lala P.S. At the relevant
time, the victim was 12 years old and was student of Class-VI.

In cross examination, he has stated that he did not see the
occurrence. When they came to school, the father of the victim talked to the
principal and he along with others were searching the accused. The victim identified
the accused to them. The father of accused lodged a case against him and others
after the incident.

10. The PW-4, Sri Debasish Sen has deposed that he is a teacher
of Aka Shekha Academy and the accused also was a teacher of the said Academy.
On 10.06.2018 at about 2 P.M. he was in a class room and was teaching art to the
students. In another room, the accused was also teaching art. On that day at about
CORI, cs visavedes Pf.
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 13/2018.
-6-
2:30 P.M. the principal informed him that the accused did some bad acts with a girl

student. He also heard that the accused touched the chest of the student in a class
room.

In cross examination, he has stated that when he joined the
school as a teacher, he found the accused working in the school as a teacher.
Except principal, there were other two teachers in the school. There was another
person who is a student-cum-teacher. He did not see the incident. The guardians
remain outside the school gate. There is no security in the gate. There is a bench in
the veranda of Adya Class. He went to the police station along with the principal. He
never heard anything about bad character of the accused.

a4, The PW-5, Dr. Rehana Begum has deposed that on 12.06.2018
she examined the victim at Civil Hospital, Hailakandi and no mark of violence over
her body and as per birth certificate, the age of the victim is 12 years. The victim
gave history of touching her breast.

12. The PW-6, Investigating Officer has deposed that he
investigated the case and during investigation, he got the victim medically examined
and also got her statement recorded by Magistrate under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. He
also collected the birth certificate of victim, according to which, the date of birth of
victim is 01.04.2006. He prepared the rough sketch map of the place of occurrence
vide Ext.-6. After completion of investigation, he submitted charge sheet against the
accused under Section 10 of POCSO Act.

In cross examination, he has stated that the victim party
brought the accused to the police station. He did not verify the genuineness of the
birth certificate of the victim. He has further stated that the PW-1 (victim) did not
state before him that the accused touched her chest and then she applied force to
shift his hand. The PW-2 did not state in the FIR that the victim left the Academy for

CORT inl, P/7.
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 13/2018.

pa
her home and after sometime, she (victim) along with her father and uncle came to
her and reported about the incident. In the FIR it is also not mentioned that the

accused touched the chest of victim. The PW-2 did not state before him that the
accused touched the chest of victim.

13. In the backdrop of above evidence of prosecution witnesses, it
is appeared that the PW-2 is the victim and she is the only witness upon whose
testimony, the fate of the entire case depends. Since the allegation against the
accused is under POCSO Act, at the very outset, it is to be determined as to what
was the age of the victim at the relevant point of time of occurrence. The victim in
her evidence has stated that her present age is 13 years. From the Ext.-4, medical
report, it is revealed that the doctor opined on the basis of birth certificate, the age
of the victim as 12 years. The PW-6, Investigating Officer has deposed that during
investigation he collected birth certificate of the victim and according to which, the
date of birth of victim is 01.04.2006. The Ext.-2, birth certificate of the victim
discloses her date of birth as 01.04.2006. The age of the victim was not disputed by
the defence and therefore, there is no difficulty to hold the view that at the relevant
time, the victim was aged about 13 years.

14. The PW-1, the Principal of the Arts School is the informant of
the case where the incident occurred. The accused was a teacher of the said school
at the relevant time, which he himself admitted in his statement under Section 313
of Cr.P.C. and during the relevant point of time he was teaching Art to the student.

15. The victim has deposed that she learns Art in the said school.
The PW-2, Principal of the Arts School has testified that on Sunday the Arts School is
being held. The date of occurrence i.e. on 10.06.2018, it was Sunday.

16. From the evidence as reproduced above, it is appeared that
the victim herself is the only eye witness to the occurrence. It is a settled proposition
COVE isieseass P/8.
Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 13/2018.

-8-

of law that in cases involving sexual harassment, molestation, etc., the court is duty-
bound to deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. Evidence ofthe victim of
sexual assault is enough for conviction and it does not require any corroboration
unless there are compelling reasons for seeking corroboration. The statement of the
prosecutrix is more reliable than that of any injured witness as she is not an
accomplice. (Ref: State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh, reported as (1996) 2 SCC
384). Thus, a conviction can be sustained on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix,
if it inspires confidence. (Ref: Vishnu (alias) Undrya v. State of Maharashtra
reportedas (2006) 1 SCC 283; State of M.P v. Dayal Sahu, reported as
(2005) 8 SCC 122)).

aes From the evidence of PW-1 (victim) it is found that on

10.06.2018, she and her friend Sukanya Nath were in the Arts School and while they
were in their class room, their teacher viz. the accused appeared there and asked
Sukanya to leave the room and accordingly, in compliance with the direction of
teacher, Sukanya left the room. Thereafter, the accused came close to the victim
and touched her chest and the victim by applying her force moved his hand from her
body. Then the accused left the room saying her not to disclose the same to
anybody. The victim in her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. vide Ext.-1 has
also made the similar statement and stated that the accused put his hand on her
chest. It is clearly discernible from her evidence that at the relevant time, she was
alone in the class room as the accused ousted her only friend Sukanya from the
class and as such, she is the sole witness to the occurrence. The credibility of her
testimony has been tested and found that she is very much consistent and
corroborative to the fact that the accused who is a teacher of Arts entered into her
class room while she and her only friend Sukanya were sitting and made her friend
to go outside and by taking advantage of her loneliness, the accused with evil intent
came closer to her and touched her chest, to which she protested by moving his
hand.

CONDE, Bcccieece as P/9.
Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 13/2018.

Ade

18. The Ld. Defence counsel has submitted that the victim in her
statement under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. did not state before police that the accused
touched her chest and thereby she has exaggerated her earlier statement while
adduced evidence. Therefore, it would not be safe to rely upon her evidence as
there is every possibility of her being tutored.

The above contention of the Ld. Counsel for the defence is not
found to be confidence inspiring because at the initial stage before police the victim
a small child due to shyness might not have specifically stated that the accused
touched her chest but at the earliest possible opportunity, when she was produced
before Magistrate, she very specifically stated that the accused touched her chest.

19. The Ld. Counsel for the defence further submitted that
according to victim, after the incident, she went to her home and narrated the entire
incident to her parents but none of the parents was examined by the prosecution
which is very much fatal to the prosecution case.

As discussed above, the evidence of victim is found highly
credible and reliable and as such, non-examination of parents does not in any way
affect the prosecution case. Further, the PW.3, the maternal uncle of the victim
adduced evidence and stated that the victim reported the incident to her mother and
on being identified by the victim they apprehended the accused when he boarded a
bus. It is appeared from Ext.-7, charge sheet that the parents of the victim have not
been cited as witness and this might be the reason for their non-examination. The
evidence of victim clearly speaks that she was sexually assaulted by the

e accused,thus, due to lapses of investigating agency or any other State machinery,

 

the victim must not be deprived of getting justice.

20. The victim has testified that after the incident, she went to her
house and narrated the entire incident to her parents. The PW-2, Principal of the
OMG, vases P/10.
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 13/2018.

-10-

School has deposed that after the Class was over, the victim left for her home and
on the same day at about 3 P.M. the victim again came with her father and uncle to
the school and reported her that while she (victim) was in the Class room, the
accused caught her hand and touched her chest. Being a Principal of the school, the
PW-2 in discharging her duty, took the victim to the police station and lodged the
FIR. It is further revealed from the evidence of PW-2 that after the incident she
discharged the accused from her school from the job of teacher. The evidence of
victim (PW-1) and the evidence of Principal (PW-2) are also very much consistent
and corroborative to the fact that after the incident, the victim went to her home
and narrated the entire incident to her parents and thereafter, her guardian came to
the school along with her and made complain against the accused of what he has
done with the victim.

21. The defence plea is that the accused Was not paid his salary
for one year by the Principal and when he pressurized the Principal for releasing his
arrear salary, the Principal has filed the false case against him using the victim.

The Principal herself is a female person, aged about 35 years
and this being the position, if she had the intention to harass the accused by filing
false case, she had that much advantage to file a case against the accused herself
and for this purpose, she need not have used a child of 13 years. Further, there is
nothing on record to show that the victim who is a 13 years old minor girl or her
family members had any sort of enmity with the accused. It is very much available
on the record that the victim even does not know the residence of accused. As
discussed above, the victim is very much consistent and corroborative to her
statement made under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. and her evidence before Court and as
such,even there is no scope to doubt that the victim was tutored by anybody.

22. In view of above discussions, it is safely arrived that the
accused who is teacher of the Arts School, at the relevant time, getting the victim
COMA, « osscicask P/11.
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 13/2018.

2

alone in the class room, sexually assaulted the victim by touching her chest and the

said act of the accused comes within the definition of aggravated sexual assault

in terms of Section 9(f) of POCSO Act, 2012.

23. Section 9(f) of the POCSO Act, 2012 reads as follows:-
“Whoever being on the Management or staff of an

educational institution or religious institution, commits Sexual assault on a

Child in that institutionyeriessss..., is said to commit aggravated sexual
assault,”
24. The definition of sexual assault is provided in Section 7 of

POCSO Act, 2012 which is quoted below:-

"Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does any act
with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is
said to commit sexual assault.”

25. In the light of the above provisions of law, under the facts and
circumstances of the case, this Court finds that the act of the accused squarely falls
within the definition of aggravated sexual assault for which punishment is prescribed
under Section 10 of POCSO Act, 2012.

26. Therefore, this Court is of the firm opinion that the prosecution
is successfully able to Prove its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubt and accordingly, the accused Person Akash Nath is
convicted under Section 10 of POCSO Act, 2012,

27. Heard the convict on the point of sentence. He has pleaded for

~ Clemency. He has stated that he is 22 years old and student of Degree 6" Semester.

In the next month, he will appear the final examination. He has further stated that
his detention in jail would spoil his life.

COVE fioscn cc. P/12.
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 13/2018.

ye.

28. After hearing the convict on the point of sentence as well as
the Ld. Defence counsel and considering the young age of accused, this Court is of
the opinion that the following punishment would meet the ends of justice.

The accused Akash Nath is sentenced to suffer simple
imprisonment for 5 (five) years and to pay fine of Rs. 5,000/-, in default,
he shall undergo further simple imprisonment for 2 (two) months under
Section 10 of POCSO Act, 2012.

29. The fine if realized shall be paid to the victim. The period of
detention already underwent by the accused shall be set off from the sentence.

30. The bail bond of the accused stands discharged.

31. Furnish a free copy of judgment to the convict immediately.
oa Send a copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate,
Hailakandi.

33. The Special (POCSO) Case is disposed of accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 5 day
of March, 2019 at Hailakandi.

eA
hes
= S
(Ve
pan ro
AR,
Dictated and corrected by me: HAILAKAN.»:
SpeciakJudge,Heitakandi.
HAILAK ANT)
Dictation is taken and transcribe Samsher Bahadur, Stenographer

 

Grade — III. COME. Fo cick P/13.
 

 

 

-13-

 

Appendix :-

Oral Evidences :-

PW-1, Victim.

PW-2, Smt. Kalyani Mazumder.
PW-3, Sri Pankaj Deb.

PW-4, Sri Debasish Sen.

PW-5, Dr. Rehana Begum.

PW-6, Sri Bijay Roy.

Documentary Evidences :-

Ext.-1, Statement of victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext.-2, Xerox copy of birth certificate.
Ext.-3, FIR.

Ext.-4, Medical report.

Ext.-5, FIR Form.

Ext.-6, Sketch map of the place of occurrence.

Ext.-7, Charge sheet.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

ecial (P

T-1

ase No. 1 2018.

  

MANLAKAND!

 
