1

 

ek
‘ae,

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON.

PECIAL CASE NO. 48(N) OF 2016

PRESENT: Smti. Rita Kar,
Special Judge,

Nagaon
State Of ASSAM ss caaucunenseneees Complainant
-Versus -
Ramdhan NamusSudra ss .aseuuecees Accused Person

@ Monoranjan

ADVOCATES WHO APPEARED IN THIS CASE

 

DY" nO
Ver” For the Complainant :Smti. B.Phukan,
Public Prosecutor &
Sri. M.Neog, Special P.P., POCSO.

For the accused : Sri S.N.Talukdar,
Sri P.Bordoloi,

Advocates.

Date of evidence : 29-11-2016, 20-01-2017, 16-03-2017,
07-04-2017, 05-05-2017, 23-06-2017,
21-07-2017, 18-08-2017, 01-09-2017,
15-09-2017, 26-09-2016.

Date of final Argument : 22-03-2018,
Date of Judgment : 24-04-2018.

 
 

J UDG MEN T

I. The prosecution case as unfolded from the FIR is that
on 27-12-2015, informant Nitai Namasudra, resident of 2 No.
Sariahbari, lodged an FIR before the Samaguri Police Station alleging
that on 27-12-2015, at 5.30 p.m. accused Ramdhan Namasudra
offered Rs.10/- to his sister namely 'X' for purchasing chocolates and
took her enticingly from her house and later on as she did not return
for a long time, her mother searched for her daughter and found her
in naked dead condition in a abandoned latrine of Hemendra Biswas’
which is located in the backyard. It is as such suspected that
accused Ramdhan Namasudra after committing rape had_-killed her
and thrown in the latrine. Hence, the FI.R.

2. On basis of the said FIR, the Officer-in-Charge of
Samaguri P.S. registered a case vide Samaguri P.S. Case No.472/15
U/S 302 IPC R/W Sec.4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offence Act 2012 against the accused and police started usual
investigation thereon. Upon completion of the investigation police
laid charge sheet in the case U/S 302 IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO
Act against accused Ramdhan Nomosudra @ Monuranjan.

Thereafter, the case was received in this court for trial.

3. The accused person was furnished with all the
necessary copies as required U/S 207 of Cr.P.C by the court. The case
being exclusively triable by the Court of Special Judge,, the learned
Judicial Magistrate, 1° Class, Nagaon committed the case for trial to
the Court of Special Judge.

4. After receiving the case the accused person was
furnished with all the necessary copies as required U/S 207 of Cr.P.C
by the court. Formal charge U/S 302/376(2)(i) of Indian Panel Code
Read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act against accused Ramdhan
 

 

Namasudra was framed by my learned predecessor after perusal of
police papers U/S. 173 of Cr.P.C. and also after hearing the learned
counsels for both sides. The charge was also read over and
explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.

5. During trial of the case the prosecution side examined
altogether 15 PWs. The accused person was examined u/s 313
Cr.P.C. Defense plea is total denial of the prosecution case. Accused
has adduced evidence of two Dws including himself.

6. After hearing arguments for both sides, | hereby
proceed to deliver my judgment in the case.

7. Points for decision :-

i) Whether on 27-12-2015 at about 5.30 p.m. at 2 No.
Sarioh-bari under Samaguri P.S. accused person committed murder
by causing the death of victim, namely, 'X' and thereby committed
an offence punishable u/s 302 |.P.C ?

ii) Whether on or about the same day, time and place
the accused person committed rape on 'X' a minor girl of 7 years and
thereby committed an offence u/s 376(2)(i) IPC ?

iii) Whether on or about the same day, time and place
the accused person did the act with sexual intent which involves
penetrative sexual assault upon a minor girl of 7 years namely, 'X'
and thereby committed an ofence u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.

8. Discussion, decision and reasons thereof :-

 

Before entering into the discussion, the gist of the

prosecution evidence is laid down below.

 
 

 

4

PW 1 Kartik Namadas has deposed that the age of the
deceased at the time of her death was 6/7 years and was reading in
school. PW 1 further deposed that incident took place a little less
than one year from his deposition. PW 1 further deposed that
incident took place in the evening at about 5/6 p.m. PW 1 further
deposed that at the time of incident he was sleeping at his home
then his wife told him that in the deserted latrine of Hemendra,
deceased 'X' was found. PW 1 further deposed that on hearing hue
and cry he went to the house of his uncle (father of deceased) and
found the dead body of deceased 'X' covered with a white cloth. PW
1 further deposed that he came to know that in the evening 'X' was
taken by accused Ramdhan by offering Rs.10/- for taking chocolate
and thereafter 'X' was untraceable. PW 1 further deposed that
thereafter people called Gaonburah, Barnabas Orang and then
Gaonburah informed the police. PW 1 further deposed that police
came there and recorded the statement of witnesses. PW 1 further
deposed that on the next day, police came and seized school skirt,
some article used in hair, sleeper (Sandal) and panty of 'X’. PW 1
further deposed that school skirt was stained with blood and soil. PW
1 further deposed that he put his signature in the seizure list in Ext.1
wherein Ext.1(1) is his signature. PW 1 further deposed that Ext.2 is
another seizure list and Ext.2(1) is his signature. PW 1 further
deposed that Mat. Ext.1 is a blue colour skirt, panty and a pair of
sleeper(Hawai Sandal). PW 1 further deposed that Mat. Ext.2 is a

man long pant and jungia.

PW 2, mother of deceased has deposed that informant
Netai Namasudra is her nephew and deceased 'X' was her daughter.
PW 2 further deposed that incident took place in the month of
December. PW 2 further deposed that on the day of incident, in the
evening at about 4 p.m. while she was booming her house, then
accused Ramdhan came to their house and enquired for her
husband. PW 2 further deposed that at that time her 7 years
daughter was warming herself by sitting around fire in their

 

 

 
 

ALL | f
Pondsg, Wren wena o
5 “PCA FY f (ye. =5%° ”

verandah. PW 2 further deposed that at that time accused Ramdhan
sat beside her daughter and puffed a biri(smoke) and engaged
himself in some chit-chat talk with her daughter. PW 2 further
deposed that thereafter accused Ramdhan departed from there. PW
2 further deposed that after a while her daughter told her(PW 2) that
accused Ramdhan would offer chocolates, as such she wants to go to
the house of Ramdhan but she resisted her to go there. PW 2 further
deposed that then the deceased told that she would go to the house
of Niranjan for warming herself around fire and as such she went
there. PW 2 further deposed that when her daughter did not return in
half-an-hour, then she went to the house of Niranjan and asked, if
deceased came to their house but they replied that deceased had
not come there. PW 2 further deposed that she went to the house of
accused Ramdhan and enquired about Ramdhan, then the sister of

the accused told that the accused after keeping his bicycle in the

_ house went out somewhere but they do not know where he has

“gone. PW 2 further deposed that while they were searching the

deceased, then the wife of Hemendra Namasudra, namely, Niyati
Namusudra told that they heard crying of a child behind their house
near the latrine but as it is a cremated place they have not come
out. PW 2 further deposed that thereafter she called the villagers
and went in the garden near the latrine and found that her daughter
was inside the latrine in kneel down position while backside of her
body was without clothes. PW 2 further deposed that she also
noticed bleeding from her urinal organ. PW 2 further deposed that
then she picked up the deceased in her lap and from her, deceased
was taken by Kanu. PW 2 further deposed that thereafter they
brought her daughter in their veranda and she wanted to shift it to
hospital but the people told her that she was already dead. PW 2
further deposed that then they covered her daughter with a cloth.
PW 2 further deposed that when gaonburah and police were
intimated they came there and took them to the place of occurrence.
PW 2 further deposed that near the latrine they found blue colour
school skirt stained with blood and mud, hair clip, sleeper with red
   

ae

ribbon (scandal), yellow colour jangia of her daughter were lying
there and police seized those things. PW 2 further deposed that she
put her thumb impression on the seizure list. PW 2 further deposed
that Mat. Ext.1 is the said seized articles and police recorded her
statement. PW 2 further deposed that police took the dead body of
her daughter and later on police caused recorded her statement in.
the Court of Kaliabor.

PW 3, Nitai Namasudra has deposed that incident took
place one year ago and on the day of incident he was in his house.
PW 3 further deposed that then someone told his mother that
deceased ‘X’ was killed by somebody. PW 3 further deposed that
getting the news he came to the house of deceased and found that
the dead body of deceased was lying in the verandah and it was
covered with a dhoti. PW 3 further deposed that dhoti was stained
with blood and there was bleeding from the female organ of the
deceased. PW 3 further deposed that many persons thronged at that
place. PW 3 further deposed that while he asked her uncle (mama),
he told him that accused Ramdhan called the deceased enticing her
to offer chocolates and thereafter the deceased was untraceable. PW
3 further deposed that though her aunt went to the house of
accused Ramdhan in search of her daughter but she was not found
in the house of Ramdhan. PW 3 further deposed that later on the
dead body of the deceased was found behind the house of
Hemendra near an old latrine. PW 3 further deposed that when
Gaonburah intimated the police about the incident police came
there. PW 3 further deposed that police seized the clothes and took
the dead body. PW 3 further deposed that on the day of incident at
night he lodged the ejahar. PW 3 further deposed that Ext.3 is the
ejahar, Ext.3(1) is his signature and during investigation police

recorded his statement.

PW 4, father of the deceased has deposed that incident
took place on 27-12-2015 and at the time of occurrence her

 
 

 

7

deceased daughter was 7 years old. PW 4 further deposed that at
the time of incident he was in the market and at that time his elder
sister’s brother-in-law informed him over phone that his daughter
was not in home. PW 4 further deposed that while he was returning
home, on the path he got the news that his daughter was killed by
Ramdhan. PW 4 further deposed that when he reached home he
found the dead-body of his daughter lying in the verandah and he
became unconscious. PW 4 further deposed that on the next day, at
9 p.m. inquest on the dead body of his daughter was conducted at
Samaguri Police Station. PW 4 further deposed that he put his
Signature in the inquest report vide Ext.4.

PW 5, Barnabas Orang deposed that incident took place
1 year ago at about 4/5 p.m. of the evening. PW 5 further deposed
that at the time of incident he was in his house along with one
Hemendra Biswas. PW 5 further deposed that then he heard hue and
cry from the side of Sariahbari as such they proceeded forward and
found gathering of people in the house of father of the deceased. PW
5 further deposed that at the house of father of the deceased he
found ‘Xx’ lying in the verandah covered with a white cloth. PW 5
further deposed that when he uncovered the cloth, he found blood
on the female organ of the deceased ‘X’. PW 5 further deposed that
then he rang over to police station and after sometime police came
there. PW 5 further deposed that when he asked to the mother of
deceased ‘X’, she told him that accused took the deceased by
enticing her that he would offer money for chocolates to the
deceased and later on deceased dead body was found behind the
house of Hemendra Biswas in an left out latrine from where the dead
body was recovered. PW 5 further deposed that police apprehended
the accused Ramdhan and took him to police station. PW 5 further
deposed that police recovered the dead body when it was covered
with blood stained white cloth. PW 5 further deposed that he put his
signature in the seizure list vide Ext.3 and Ext.3(1) is his signature.

PW 5 further deposed that he also went to the police station and
 

police seized the wearing long pant and jungia of accused person.
PW 5 further deposed that Ext.2 is the said seizure list and Ext.2(2)
is his signature. PW 5 further deposed that police again visited the
place of occurrence and he also visited with them. PW 5 further
deposed that behind the house of Hemendra Biswas near the latrine
police seized a hair rubber, clip, a pair of sandal(Hawai), one jangia
and blue colour skirt where he put his signature vide Ext.1(2) in
Ext.1 seizure list. PW 5 further deposed that Mat. Ext.3 is the seized
white colour cloth, Mat.Ext.1 is the blue colour skirt, clip, sandal,
jangia and Mat. Ext.2 is longpant and jangia.

PW 6, Sri Hiralal Sarkar has deposed that the incident
occurred a years ago. PW 6 further deposed that in the evening at
about 5.30 p.m. while he was at his shop, then the deceased alone
had come to his shop and purchased a packet of biscuit, chocolates
and Ladu of total cost Rs.10/-. PW 6 further deposed that after about

~ half-an-hour or 25 minutes, the mother of deceased came to his

shop enquiring about the deceased and then he told about the visit
of the deceased to his shop. PW 6 further deposed that later on the
dead body of deceased was found behind the house of his uncle
Hemendra Namasudra lying near a latrine in the western side. PW 6
further deposed that the dead body was brought to the house. PW 6
further deposed that he noticed blood oozing out from the urinal
organ of the deceased. PW 6 further deposed that police recorded

his statement.

PW 7, Kanu Namasudra has deposed that incident took
place more that a year ago from his deposition. PW 7 further
deposed that the incident took place in the evening at about 5.30
p.m. PW 7 further deposed that on the day of incident from 4.30
p.m. he was warming himself by sitting around fire along with
Niranjan and Niranjan’s wife. PW 7 further deposed that at that time
accused Ramdhan came to them and talked for some time and

thereafter taking a glass of water from the wife of Niranjan, he left

 
mgt Ww

Vv

NY
Cr
Se ow

Wed!

Gs
3
&
a be
°

ws oo

  

B

all

towards the house of daughter of the deceased. PW 7 further
deposed that after about 1 hour, Rani Namasudra came to him in
search of her deceased daughter and also enquired about accused
Ramdhan and then they told that they have not seen them. PW 7
further deposed that thereafter few of them have started to search
the deceased. PW 7 further deposed that they also went to the
house of accused Ramdhan but the deceased was not found there.
PW 7 further deposed that Rani also narrated to them that Ramdhan
had told the deceased that he would give Rs.10/- and chocolates to
her. PW 7 further deposed that while they were searching for the
deceased then wife of Hemendra told them that a little earlier she
had heard screaming of a girl in their garden. PW 7 further deposed
that thereafter they went towards the garden in search of the girl.
PW 7 further deposed that thereafter on the flash of the torch light
they noticed a head of girl inside the abandon latrine and backside
of the girl was in expose condition. PW 7 further deposed that there
were no clothes in the body of the girl and blood was oozing out from
the urinal organ. PW 7 further deposed that when the mother of the.
girl embraced her child asking what was she doing there, then the
girl lean down and then he lifted the girl and brought to the house of
daughter of the victim. PW 7 further deposed that by that time the
deceased was dead and knowing it they covered with a white cloth.
PW 7 further deposed that at that time many people gathered there
and the Gaonburah Barana Orang intimated to police over phone.
PW 7 further deposed that after a while police arrived there and
investigated about the matter. PW 7 further deposed that then the
villagers caught brought Ramdhan there and then the police took the
dead body and accused Ramdhan to the police station. PW 7 further
deposed that he also went to the Police Station and police seized the
dhoti from the house of father of deceased. PW 7 further deposed
that police also seized the wearing long pant and jangia of the
accused person and 9 p.m. of the night they came back to their
house. PW 7 further deposed that again at 10 p.m. of the night
police came to the house of father of deceased and recorded their

 
 

o y Pe
Sa PN
& if [Rew oF
maee Af ft

statement and took them to the place of occurrence. PW 7 further
deposed that from the place of occurrence police seized wearing
Skirt, panty, sandal, clip of the deceased girl. PW 7 further deposed
that Ext.1, Ext.2 and Ext.3 are the seizure lists and Ext.1(3), 2(3) and
3(2) are his signatures. PW 7 further deposed that Mat.Ext.1 is the
blue colour skirt, sandal, jangia, clip and rubber band, Mat.Ext.2 is
the long pant and jangia and Mat.Ext.3 is white colour dhoti. PW 7
further deposed that police caused recorded his statement at
Kaliabor Court vide Ext.5 wherein Ext.5(1), Ext.5(2) and Ext.5(3) are
his signatures.

PW 8 Hemendra Biswas has deposed that the incident
was of one year old from his deposition. PW 8 further deposed that
on the day of incident at about 5/6 p.m. he was in the house of
Barnabas Orang and at that time they heard hue and cry outside the
house and was alighting torch. PW 8 further deposed that then he
and Barnabas Orang came outside and found many people and went
towards the house of father of deceased. PW 8 further deposed that
there they found the deceased ‘X’ lying in the verandah covered with
white cloth. PW 8 further deposed that when someone removed the
cloth they saw bleeding in the urinated organ and at that time Rani
Namasudra was lamenting told that accused Ramdhan killed her
daughter. PW 8 further deposed that then on being informed by
Barnabas Orang, police came there and people brought Ramdhan
there. PW 8 further deposed that police took Ramdhan to the Police
Station. PW 8 further deposed that from the attending persons he
came to know that in the backyard of his house in an abandon latrine
the deceased was found lying from where she was brought.

PW 9, Shasti Namasudra has deposed that incident took
place 1 % years ago at about 6 p.m. PW 9 further deposed that at
that time her husband, Kanu and herself were warming themselves
around the fire in their courtyard. PW 9 further deposed that at that

time Ramdhan came and sat besides them and after taking a glass

 
11

 

of water he went to the house of father of deceased. PW 9 further
deposed that about 10 minutes thereafter, mother of the deceased
came there and enquired about her daughter and told them that in
the evening at about 4 p.m. Ramdhan came to her house and told to
her daughter that he would provide money to purchase chocolates.
PW 9 further deposed that then mother of the deceased along with
Kanu went to the house of Ramdhan. PW 9 further deposed that as
the mother of the deceased and Kanu did not find the deceased in
the house of Ramdhan, then they themselves carried on the search
of deceased in the village and then the village people also came out
and searched for the deceased. PW 9 further deposed that he also
went for searching the deceased. PW 9 further deposed that then the
mother of the deceased, Rani found the deceased near a latrine in
upside down position and hug-lifted her but finding deceased in dead
condition she became senseless. PW 9 further deposed that then he
helped Rani and Kanu picked up the deceased in her lap and
brought them to the house father of deceased. PW 9 further
deposed that at that time blood was oozing out from the urinated
organ of the deceased. PW 9 further deposed that they also noticed
bite marks on the face and chest of the deceased. PW 9 further
deposed that later on police came and recorded his statement.

PW 10, Niyati Biswas has further deposed that incident
took place 1 % years ago, one day, at about 5 p.m. PW 10 further
deposed that while she was at her home, then the mother of the
deceased enquired about the deceased, then she told her that she
has not seen the deceased. PW 10 further deposed thereafter the
mother of the deceased along with Kanu again came to her house,
then she told that she had heard sound of crying behind their house.
PW 10 further deposed that getting the information, mother of the
deceased Rani and Kanu went behind their house and she also
followed them. PW 10 further deposed that while they were
searching the deceased, then Kanu in her torch light noticed the

deceased lying in their left out latrine while the head of the
 

12

 

ait

deceased was in the pit. PW 10 further deposed that there was no
clothes on the body of the deceased and blood was oozing out from
the urinated organ. PW 10 further deposed that seeing such
condition of the deceased, the mother of the deceased became
senseless and then Kanu brought lifted the deceased to the house.
PW 10 further deposed that thereafter there occurred hue and cry
and many people gathered there. PW 10 further deposed that when
Rani regained senses, she told before the people that accused
Ramdhan enticingly took the deceased by giving Rs.10/-. PW 10
further deposed during investigation, police recorded his statement.

PW 11, Niranjan Namasudra has deposed that incident
took place about 1 % years ago and at the time of incident deceased
was about 6 years old. PW 11 further deposed that incident took
place at about 6 p.m. and at that time he was warming outside his
house near fire. PW 11 further deposed that at that his wife Sasti and
Kanu Namasudra were also with him, then accused Ramdhan came
there and after taking a glass of water, he went to the house of
father of the deceased. PW 11 further deposed that thereafter about
half-an-hour the mother of the deceased, Rani came to their house
and enquired about the deceased but they replied that deceased
had not come to their house. PW 11 further deposed that the
mother of the deceased told them that accused Ramdhan had given
Rs.10/-for taking chocolates, as such she might had gone with
Ramdhan. PW 11 further deposed that thereafter he, Rani, his wife
and Kanu moved in search of the deceased. PW 11 further deposed
that while they were searching for the deceased, then Niyati told
them that she had heard crying of a girl behind their house near
their left out latrine. PW 11 further deposed that then they rushed
towards that side and found the deceased in the latrine set in kneel
down position while the head was in the sloping end side and there
was no clothes in her lower side and blood was also oozing out from
the urinal organ of the deceased. PW 11 further deposed that

thereafter Kanu lifted the deceased and brought to the house of

 
oo

 

13

father of deceased and by that time the deceased was dead. PW 11
further deposed that thereafter many people gathered there and
somebody informed the police and then police came and took the
dead body of deceased and the accused Ramdhan. PW 11 further
deposed that during investigation police recorded his statement.

PW 12, Dr. P.J.Borah has deposed that on 28-12-2015, while he
was serving as M & H.O.| at B.P. Civil Hospital, Nagaon, on that day at
2.00 p.m. he performed post-mortem examination on the dead body
of the deceased 'X', PS. Case
No.472/2015 u/s 302 IPC R/W 4 of POCSO Act. PW 12 further
deposed that on examination of the dead body he found the

in connection with Samaguri

following :-
External Appearance : 3 % feet long thin body pre-pubertal

body with no thelarchy or no pubic and axillary hair seen. Wearing a
frock, bleeding seen from vagina, froth is present in nose and mouth.

1. Rt. Cheek - multiple less than 1 cm dicrete marks of

bruises present.

2. 4 in Nos. in same vertical plane - bruises -in left side of
neck - less than 1 cm.
3 Nos. same size marks in right neck posteriorly.
Left breast - curvilinear bruise 3 in Nos.

Vaginal injury as described.

Au eR w

Anal injury as described.

Cranium and spinal canal :- All organs are normal.
Thorax : Laryax and trachere - Thyroid cartilage is broken (torn) in
the middle. All other organs are normal.

Abdomen : Stomach and its contents - Normal, digested rice inside.
Other organs are normal.

Organs of generation, extema and internal :

Vagina is torn, due to forceful penetration. Causing rectum injury,
causing complete perennial tear. Laceration present in vagina,
Causing pelvic hemotoma and circular bruise in vulva. Rigor mortis is

present.
 

 

14

Details : Small bruises in the neck and cheek are like nail marks,
bruises in left breast are like teeth marks, No public hair is collected
as it is absent. The thyroid cartilage is fractured, vagina is torn,
lacerated causing complete perennial tear and rectal injury. Vaginal
laceration inside cause pelvic hematoma.

PW 12 further noted that both hand nail clippings, vaginal two
Swabs are sent for forensic testing as per request in police
requisition through the escorted police personal and results are
awaited. PW 12 opined that cause of death was (homicide due to)
asphyxia due to compression of wind pipe of neck, signs of sexual
assault is present in the body, the time of death is within 24 hours of
post-mortem done. PW 12 further deposed that signs of throttling is
present in the neck. PW 12 further deposed that Ext.6 is his report
and Ext.6(1) is his signature. PW 12 further deposed that it is a case
of brutal murder besides wild sexual harassment. PW 12 further
deposed that sexual assault was so forceful so there was rectal injury
causing complete perennial tear.

PW 13, Mrs. Renu Bora Handique has deposed that on
04-01-2016 while she was serving as Scientific Officer, Serology
division, Directorate of Forensic Science, Kahilipara Assam, on that
day, he received a parcel through their director which was sent by
S.P. Nagaon in connection with Samaguri P.S. Case No.472/15 u/s 302
IPC R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act vide Memo No.IV/167/16/149 dated 04-
01-2016. PW 13 further deposed that parcel consisted of one sealed
cloth cover carton box of 9 (nine) exhibits enclosed with a seal cover
which was sealed with the impression of seal corresponding with the
seal impression forwarded S.P.Nagaon. PW 13 further deposed that
exhibits were marked by her as :-

1. One paper enveloped contains both hands nail clippings
contains suspected blood and semen, Marked as “A’(victims)

and marked it as Sero-3627/A.

 
 

a yt shee gi

. Two Nos. of smear slide of vaginal swab (bloods mixed),

marked as 'B”. Again marked as Sero-3627/B.

. One navy blue coloured skirt contains stain of suspected blood

and semen. Marked as “C”. The exh. Mixed with mud. Again
marked as Sero-3627/C.

. One light green coloured (small size) panty contains

suspected blood and semen. Marked as “D”. Again marked as
Sero -3627/D.

. One white colored Dhuti contains stain of suspected blood and

semen. Marked as “E”. Again marked as Sero- 3627/E.

. One air tight glass vial contains nail clippings contains

suspected blood and semen. Marked as “F”. Again marked as
Sero 3627/F.

. One air tight glass vial contains swab of accused person.

Marked as “G”. Again marked as Sero-3627/G.

. One air tight plastic pack contains public hair. Marked as “H”.

Again marked as Sero-3627/H.

. One (jocky) underwear (blue and red bordered) and black

coloured long pant contains stain of suspected blood and

semen. Marked as “I”. Again marked as Sero-3627/I.

PW 13 further deposed that after her careful examination of the

above exhibits he found as follows:-

1. Ext.No.Sero-3627/A gave positive test for human blood
and negative test for spermatozoa.

2. Ext.No.Sero-3627/B gave positive test-for blood and
negative test for semen.

3. Ext.No.Sero-3627/C gave positive test for blood and
semen.

4. Ext.No.Sero-3627/D gave negative test for blood and
semen (spermatozoa)

5. Ext.No.Sero-3627/E gave positive test for human blood
and spermatozoa.
 

16

6. Ext.No.Sero-3627/F gave positive test for human blood
and negative test for semen (spermatozoa)

7. Ext.No.Sero-3627/G gave positive test for spermatozoa
& negative test for blood.

8. Ext.No.Sero-3627/H gave positive test for human blood
and negative test for spermatozoa.

9. Ext.No.Sero-3627/Il gave positive test for spermatozoa
and negative test for blood.

PW 13 further deposed that Ext.7 is her report wherein
Ext.7(1) is her signature. PW 13 further deposed that Ext.8 is the
forwarding report and Ext.8(1) is the signature of Minendra Narayan

Bora, Director of Forensic Science lab. Kahalipara, Guwahati.

PW 14, Dr. Sahidul Alom has deposed that on 28-12-
2015, while he was serving as M & H.O. At B.P.civil Hospital, Nagaon,
on that day at 11.00 a.m., he examined Ramdhan Nomosudra, S/O
late Rosmoi Namasudra, village Soriohbari, PS. Samaguri, District
Nagaon as per requisition of I/c Salonah P.P. Under Samaguri P.S.
Which was escorted by UBC/537 Ananta Nath and Ap Bn. Staff of
Salonah P.P. and found the following :-

Pubic hair was collected and sent for examination. Swab
of the accused person was collected and sent for examination.
Smegma absent. Nails clipped collected and sent for examination.
Potency present. No external injuries seen. PW 14 further deposed
that Ext.10 is the report and Ext.10(1) is his signature.

PW 15, SI Biju Kingkar Basumatary has deposed that on
27-12-2015 while he was serving as Sub-Inspector of Police and I/C
of Salanah P.S under Samaguri P.S, at about 7.30 he received a
phone call from Barnabas Orang, Gaonburah of village Rekapahar
under Samaguri: P.S. Informing that at 6.30 p.m. The deceased of

village Soriah bari, namely, “X”, aged 10 years was raped and
 

17

murdered by someone and left her at tea garden in a latrine. PW 15
further deposed that on the basis of said information, he recorded
the Salanah P.P. GDE No.398 dated 27-12-2015 and proceeded
towards the place of occurrence. PW 15 further deposed that Ext.10
is the GD entry book and Ext.10(1) is the GD entry record No.398
dated 27-12-2015. PW 15 further deposed that he visited to the
house of Rani Namasudra and found the dead body of minor lying in
the veradah covered with a blood stained white cloth (dhoti). PW 15
further deposed that he seized the white cloth(dhoti) vide Ext.3
wherein Ext.3(3) is his signature and Mat. Ext.3 is the said 'dhoti'. PW
15 further deposed that he also recorded the statement of witnesses
and then shifted the dead body to Samaguri Police Station due to
insufficient of light. PW 15 further deposed that in the meantime
gathered people confined Ramdhan Namasudra in connection with
the occurrence and handed over to him and thereafter he brought
him to Samaguri P.S. PW 15 further deposed that he also seized the
under wear (jangia) and longpant of the accused person. PW 15
further deposed that accordingly he prepared a seizure list vide Ext.2
and Ext.2(4) is his signature and Mat. Ext.2 is the said jangia and
long-pant. PW 15 further deposed that again at 9.35 p.m. he visited
the place of occurrence, then the mother of the deceased showed
him the place of occurrence which is is deserted latrine of Hemendra
Biswas. PW 15 further deposed that he drew the sketch map vide
Ext.11 wherein Ext.11(1) is his signature. PW 15 further deposed that
in and around the place of occurrence he found a navy blue color
school skirt uniform which was stained with mud and blood and he
also recovered one Hawai sandal, one jangia of light yellow colour,
one rubber band of pink colour and seized the same. PW 15 further
deposed that he prepared the seized list Ext.1 while Ext.1(4) is the
his signature. PW 15 further deposed that in the meantime he came
to know that one Nitai Namasudra has filed one written ejahar at
Samaguri P.S. and the O/C of Samaguri PS. registered the case as as
Samaguri P.S. Case No. 472/15 u/s 302 IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSOI! Act

and accordingly entrusted him to take up the investigation of the

 
 

18

case. PW 15 further deposed that Ext.3(a) is the said FIR wherein
Ext.3(a)(2) is the signature of O/C Nabin Chandra Mahanta which is
acquainted to him. PW 15 further deposed that he also recorded the
statement of complainant at the PS. and after interrogation he
arrested accused Ramdhan Namasudra. PW 15 further deposed that
he sent the accused to B.P. Civil Hospital for health check-up and
potency test and also to collect pubic hair, nail clippings and semen
of the accused.

PW 15 further deposed that Circle Officer-cum-
Executive Magistrate held the inquest over the dead body while
Ext.4 is the Inquest Report and Ext.4(2) is the signature of Circle
Officer, Kalaibor whose signature is acquainted with him. PW 15
further deposed that thereafter he sent the dead-body for post-
mortem examination. PW 15 further deposed that he also made
requisition to collect the pubic hair and to preserve, collect her swab
and to preserve, if snegma found, collect and to preserve, collect
the nail clipping and preserve, whether any injury marks on her body
and private parts, whether any sign of any recent sexual activity on
her body and also requested to conduct the post mortem under the
coverage video- graph. PW 15 further deposed that he also
forwarded the accused before the Court of learned S.D.J.M., Kaliabor
and took the accused in police custody for two days. PW 15 further
deposed that materials collected by the B.P.Civil Hospital, Nagaon
from the accused and the deceased were sent to Forensic Science
Labortary, Kahilipara along with seized articles vide Ext.1,2 and 3.
PW 15 further deposed that he got recorded the statement of Kanu
Namasudra and Rani Namasudra recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. by the
learned S.D.J.M., Kaliabor. PW 15 further deposed thereafter he
collected the statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C., post-mortem
report, medical examination of accused and also collected Forensic
lab. Report. PW 15 further deposed that after completion of
investigation and having found prima facie materials against

accused Ramdhan Namasudra @ Monuranjan, he filed charge-sheet
 

19

against the accused u/s 302 IPC R/W 4 of the POCSO Act while Ext.12
is the charge-sheet and Ext.12(1) is his signature.

9. DW 1, Ramdhan Namasudra has deposed that two
years ago, one Sunday, in the morning at about 8.30 a.m. he went to
the house of PW 4 to talk about monetary transaction in regards of
weaving of bamboo basket. DW 1 further deposed that as he did not
find the father of deceased at his house, so he came back and went
to the Jakhalabandha market with basket (locally call 'Duli' used for
storing paddy). DW 1 further deposed that while he was returning
from Jakhalabandha bazar, it was about 3/3.30 p.m. DW 1 further
deposed that while he was cooking vegetable, then the village
people along with police came to his house and asked him to go the
house of father of deceased. DW 1 further deposed that then he
went to the house of father of deceased and subsequently police
took him to the Police Station in a vehicle. DW 1 further deposed that
police after harassing two days in the police station recorded his
statement. DW 1 further deposed that police took his old clothes by
exchanging with new clothes. DW 1 further deposed that he did not
know anything about the deceased and also did not know how the
deceased died.

DW 2, Chanchala Biswas has deposed that accused
Ramdhan is her husband. DW 2 further deposed that incident took
place about 2 years ago and on the day of incident, in the evening
she was in her house and her husband was cooking food along with
her. DW 2 further deposed that at that time few of their villagers
enquired for her husband and then her husband came with those
villagers and the villagers thereafter handed over her husband to
police. DW 2 further deposed that later on she came to know that
somebody had killed the deceased and suspecting her husband to
be involved with her death local people handed over her husband to
police. DW 2 further deposed that her husband did not commit any
offence and never brought the deceased to their house.

 

 
 

20

 

From the prosecution evidence it is evident that there is
no eye witness in this case and the case is based on circumstantial
evidence. As such as per established principle of law, it is necessary
to scrutinize the evidences carefully so to ascertain whether the

entire chain of circumstances is complete or not.

10. Appreciation of evidence.

Out of 15 prosecution witnesses, evidence of PW 2, the
mother of the deceased victim carries much importance because it is
her evidence which pointed towards the involvement of the accused
in commission of offence and chain of circumstance begins from her

evidence.

According to PW 2, on the day of occurrence at about 4
p.m. while she was sweeping her house then the accused came to
their house and enquired about her husband. At that time her 7 year
old daughter was sitting near the verandah, then Ramdhan talked
with her(deceased) for sometime and went away. After some time
her daughter told her that Ramdhan told her that he will give her
logence (chocolate) and she wanted to go to Ramdhan's house. She
(PW 2) restrained her. Then her daughter told that she will go to her
uncle's house and by saying this she went away. After half-an-hour
when her daughter did not return then she went to the house of
Niranjan and asked them about her daughter and in reply they told
that her daughter did not come there. Then she went to the house of
Ramdhan and then Ramdhan's sister told that keeping his cycle in
the house, Ramdhan went out but they cannot say where he has

gone.

Now, from the evidence of PW 2, it is evident that

Ramdhan came to their house and talked with her deceased

 
 

 

21

daughter and after some time he went away. PW 7 (Kanu
Namasudra), PW 9 (Shasti Namasudra) and PW 11 (Niranjan
Namasudra) has confirmed the fact that on the day of occurrence at
about 5.30 p.m. accused Ramdhan Namasudra came to the house of
Niranjan while they were sitting around the fire and after drinking a
glass of water went to the house of PW 4 and after 2/1 hours PW 2
came to their house and enquired about her daughter. PW 7 (Kanu
Namasudra) has stated that he along with PW 2 went to the house of
Ramadhan in search of her daughter but did not find her there. In his
cross-examination he has stated that while they asked Ramdhan's

wife then she told that Ramdhan came with a girl.

PW 6 (Hiralal Sarkar) is the owner of a shop. According
to him on the day of occurrence at about 5.30 p.m. the deceased girl
came to. his shop and purchased one packet biscuit,
morton(chocolate), laddu. She purchased the whole items by paying
Rs.10/-.

It is evident from the evidence of PW 2, PW 7, PW 9, PW
11 that while they were searching the deceased girl then Niyati
Biswas (PW 10) told them that she heard cry of a girl from the back
side of their house and after search they found the dead body of the
deceased in the abandoned latrine in the back side of Hemendra
Biswas (PW 8) and PW 10. It is also evident that soon after the
recovery of the dead body, police was informed and the accused was
handed over to the police and police took him to the police station
along with the dead body. According to PW 1(Kartik Namasudra), PW
5(Baunabas Orang) and PW 7 (Kanu Namasudra) police seized the
Jangia and long pant vide Ext.2 which the Ramdhan was wearing.

According to PW 15 (I.0.) he arrested the accused
Ramdhan and sent the accused to B.P. Civil Hospital for health

 

 
 

22

Checkup, potency test and to collect pubic hair, nail clipping and

semen of the accused.

As per PW 14, Dr. Sahidul Alom on 28-12-2015 at about
11 a.m. he examined Ramdhan Namasudra at B.P. Civil Hospital
Nagaon and collected his pubic hair, swab, Nail clipping and sent for
examination. He found potency present. Ext.10 is his report.

PW 12, Dr. PJ.Borah conducted the post-mortem
examination on the dead body of the daughter of PW 2 and PW 4. He
found small bruises in the neck, nail like marks on her cheek and

bruises in left breast are like teeth marks.

PW 13 Mrs. Renu Bora Handique is the Scientific Officer,
Serology Division, Directorate of Forensic Science, Assam. From her
evidence it is evident that she has examined nail clipping containing
suspected blood and semen which has been again marked as Sero
3627/F, she has also examined pubic hair marked as Sero 3627-H.
According to her Ext.No. Sero 3627/F (nail clipping) gave positive
test for human blood, Ext.Sero.3627/H (pubic hair) gave positive test
for human blood and negative test for spermatozoa.

Now, the accused Ramdhan in his statement u/s 313
Cr.P.C. has denied that his nail clipping, pubic hair, swab was
collected but in course of his cross-examination as DW 1 he has
admitted that at Nagaon Civil Hospital doctor has collected some
substance from his body by cotton and collected his pubic hair, nail
clipping and also tested his potency. From the evidence it can be
seen that within a very short period of time since the incident
occurred, accused was taken into police custody and his under wear
and long-pant were seized. It is also evident that on the next day, at
11 a.m. his nail clipping, pubic hair etc. were collected by PW 14. In
his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. accused has not given any explanation

 
 

~
$n carne ten
23 meanest

regarding presence of blood in his pubic hair and nail clipping. It is
evident from the evidence of PW 2 that when she went to the house
of accused Ramdhan in search of her daughter then she did not find
the accused in his house. Accused Ramdhan in his statement u/s 313
Cr.P.C. has taken the plea of alibi. According to him at the time of
occurrence he was in the market. Again in his evidence he has
stated that in the morning at 8.30 a.m., he went to the house of PW
4 and PW 4 was not in his house, he went to the Jakhalabandha
market and at about 3/3.30 p.m. he came back to his house and
while he was cooking then villagers along with police came to his
house and took him to the house of deceased father. It can be seen
that he has contradicted his own statement. Again it can be seen
that in course of cross-examination of PW 2, suggestion was given
that at about 1 p.m. Ramdhan went to meet her husband concerning
business matter but PW 2 has denied this suggestion. From this
suggestion and from the statement of the accused and his evidence
it can be seen that accused has admitted that he went to the house
of PW 4 although he has given different version regarding the time
and this suggestion has falsified his own testimony that in the
morning he went to the Jakhalabandha market and came back to
home at 3/3.30 p.m. But evidence of PW 7, PW 9 and PW 11 have
negated his plea.

Defence side has extensively cross-examined PW 2, PW
6, PW 7, PW 9, PW 11 but they have failed to shake their evidence.

11. Argument of Prosecution side.

It is the argument of prosecution side that although
there is no direct evidence in this case but from the cogent evidence
of PW 2, PW 6, PW 7, PW 9, PW 11 and the evidence of PW 13 and
PW 14, it is clearly established that it is only the accused who has

committed such heinous crime.
 

24

12. Argument of Defence side.

Refuting the argument of prosecution side learned
defence counsel has submitted that there is discrepancy in the
statement of Pws. It is the contention of the learned defence counsel
that mere finding of semen in the undergarment of the accused is
not the conclusive proof that he has committed rape. 1.0. has not
taken any step for matching the semen of accused with the semen
found in the skirt of the deceased. It is the contention of the learned
defence counsel that the accused is a married man and finding of
semen in his undergarment is not unnatural. It is also their
contention that presence of blood in the pubic hair of the accused is
also not sufficient to establish the guilt of the accused because it is
not known how the doctor has collected the pubic hair of the
accused and there is possibility that at the time of collecting his
pubic hair blood might have come out. It is also the contention of the
defence side that PW 7, PW 9 and PW 11 have seen accused
Ramdhan going to the house of PW 4 but they have not seen the

 

accused coming out from his house. Moreover, no one has seen the
deceased along with the accused . Overall argument of the defence
side is that the prosecution has failed to establish the chain of
circumstance completely which is the golden principle in respect of
circumstantial evidence. In support of his contention learned counsel
has placed reliance on the following citations seeking acquittal of the
accused.

(i) 2008 Cri.L.J.3052, Supreme Court ( Ventatesan V.
State of Tamil Nadu)

(ii) 2014 Cri. L.J.2371 Supreme Court ( Dharam Deo
Yadav V. State of U.P).

(iii) AIR 1973 SC 343 (Rahim Beg and ano. Vs. State of
U.P)
25

13. Now, from the FIR it can be seen that on 27-12-2015
around 5.30 p.m. occurrence took place. It was the winter season
and during winter season it is almost dark by that time. It is already
established from the evidence of PW 2, PW 7, PW 9 and PW 11 that
accused Ramdhan came to the house of PW 4. PW 2 has stated that
Ramdhan came to their house and talked with her daughter sitting
near her (deceased) and after some time he went away. Her
daughter told that Ramdhan told her that he will give her logence
(chocolate) and she wants to go to his house and when she (PW 2)
resisted her daughter she(deceased) went away telling lie. Now age
of the deceased is about 6/7 years, as such it is quite natural that
she could not resist the temptation of eating chocolate and went
away by telling lie. PW 7, PW 9 and PW 11 stated that they did not
see when Ramdhan went away from the house of PW 4. Now PW 7
has stated in his cross-examination that there is another path near
the courtyard of PW 4 to go to the main road. PW 9 (Shasti
Namasudra) stated in her cross-examination that there are three
paths which go to the main road from the house of PW 4. Thus, it can
be seen that the path which the accused used first, is not the only
path for his exit from the house of PW 4 and as such the accused has
used any other path at the time of leaving the house of PW 4, so that
no one can see him. Had he did not nurture any guilty intention, he
might have used the same path through which he came to the house
of PW 4.

Now defence side has cross-examined PW 14 (Dr.
Sahidul Alom) who collected pubic hair, nail clipping, swab etc. of the
accused, but in course of his cross-examination neither question was
put to him regarding the manner of collection of pubic hair nor it was
challenged and as such contention as raised by learned defense
counsel in this regard is not tenable. Attitude of the accused does
not point towards his innocence because in his statement u/s 313
Cr.P.C., he has stated that his pubic hair, nail clipping etc. was not
collected. Again in his (DW 1) cross-examination he has admitted
that those things were collected by the doctor. PW 12 Dr. PJ.Borah

 
 

we \
Ms

26

R S72.
% Ag een, a
a .
¢

4 Rit

found small bruises in the neck and cheek are like nail marks. PW 13”
(Mrs. Renu Bora Handique), the Scientific Officer has substantiated
the fact that nail clipping (Ext.-Sero-3627/F) of the accused gave
positive test for human blood but the accused has failed to give any
explanation regarding presence of blood in his nail clipping and
pubic hair.

Now, it can be seen within one hour since the deceased
left her house search was made. During that period accused was not
found in his house by PW 2, PW 7 and others. Thus false and
contradictory plea of the accused regarding his .presence in his
house has established the important link and strengthened the
prosecution case. Evidence of PW 6 has further strengthened the
prosecution story as he has substantiated the fact that the deceased
bought chocolate, biscuit and laddu from his shop by paying Rs.10/-.
From the time of arrival of the accused in the house of PW 4 and
meeting the deceased and her mother till the recovery of the body of
the deceased, time span is very short and within such time no other
person met the deceased. As soon as the accused left their house,
the deceased followed him. PW 6 has fully substantiated the
testimony of PW 2 regarding the fact hat the accused told her

daughter that he will give her logence(chocolate).

From the prosecution evidence it can be seen that after
crossing the main road there is the house of PW 8 (Hemendra
Biswas) and PW 10 (Niyati Biswas) and thereafter is the house of the
accused. PW 8 in his cross-examination has stated that in the back
side of his house is the abandoned katcha latrine which is
Surrounded by garden and open and from there one can go to any
direction. Thus, it was not difficult for the accused to reach his house
when the PW 2, PW 1 and other were searching the deceased.
Evidence of vital witnesses like PW 2, PW 6, PW 7, PW 9, PW 11 is
consistent and steady and defence could not shake their evidence
and as such | do find their testimony trustworthy. Apart from their
 

27

evidence there is medical evidence and expert scientific evidence.
Mere lacuna on the part of the 1.0. for not taking any step for
matching the semen of the accused with that found in the skirt of
the deceased does not appear to be fatal for the prosecution when
there are other clinching evidence against the accused regarding
commission of the offence.

| have gone through the citations so referred by the
learned defence counsel and | am of the opinion that those citations
will not help them as the facts and circumstance of the instant case
is different.

In view of discussion of evidence so far made, | am of
the opinion that prosecution has succeeded to establish the chain of
circumstances against he accused regarding his involvement in

commission of the offence as alleged in the FIR.

Now let us see whether prosecution has been
succeeded to bring home the charges against accused person. PW
12 (Dr. PJ.Borah) conducted the post-mortem examination on the
dead body of 'X'. From his evidence and from the PM Report (Ext.6) it
is evident that there are several injuries on her body. PW 12 found
following ‘injuries on the organs of generation- external and

internal :-

Vagina is torn due to forceful penetration, causing
rectum injury, causing complete perineal tear. Laceration present in

vagina, causing pelvic haematoma and circular bruise in vulva.

Apart from the above injuries on the private parts, PW

12 has found other external injuries which are as follows:
 

28

1.Rt. Cheek - multiple less than 1 cm discrete marks of
bruises present.

2. 4 in Nos. in same vertical plane - bruises -in left side
of neck - less than 1 cm.

3. 3 Nos. same size marks in right neck posteriorly.

4. Left breast - curvilinear bruise 3 in Nos.

As per PM report (Ext.6) Thyroid cartilage is found
broken (torn) in the middle and PW 12 has opined that cause of
death was ( homicide due to ) asphyxia due to compression of wind
pipe of neck. Sign of sexual assault is present. PW 12 has deposed
that it is a case of brutal murder besides wild sexual harassment.
Signs of throttling is present in the neck.

A

oy BOE g Defence has not challenged the medical evidence.
\ WwW ad g
aft ar ‘ bS?

 

Now from the PM Report (Ext.6) as well as from the
evidence of PW 12 it is found that the age of the deceased was 7
years. From the oral evidence of PW 2, PW 6, PW 7, PW 9 and PW 11
coupled with medical and expert scientific evidence it is established
that the accused has committed wild penetrative sexual assault on
the child of 7 years and as such he is found guilty of committing
aggravated penetrative sexual assault punishable u/s 6 of the
POCSO Act, 2012.

It is pertinent to mention herein that maximum
punishment prescribed for Section 4 and Section 6 is life

imprisonment as such alteration of charge is not necessary.

Since the accused is found guilty u/s 6 of the POCSO Act
as such finding on Section 376(2)(i) IPC is not necessary.
 

29

Considering the medical evidence accused Ramdhan

Namusudra is also found guilty of committing offence u/s 302 IPC.

14. Finding -:- | have heard submission of both sides and gone
through the evidence and materials on record. | have arrived at the
finding that prosecution has succeeded to establish its case against
accused Ramdhan Namasudra @ Monoranjan U/S 6 of the POCSO Act
and Section 302 IPC beyond all reasonable doubt and accordingly he
is convicted under these sections.

Considering the punishment prescribed for the offences,
| am of the opinion that the accused is not entitled to get any benefit
either under the provision of Probation of Offender Act or u/s 360
CrP.

15. Sentence hearing: | have heard the accused person on
sentence and his statement in this regard is recorded separately and

kept with the case record. Accused has prayed for showing leniency.

16. Sentence :- Under the facts and circumstance, the
instant case does not come within the category of rarest of the rare
case so far as Section 302 IPC is concerned and as such the convict
is sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for life and also to
pay fine of Rs.10,000/- in default R.Il. for another 6 (six) months
under Section 302 IPC. The accused is also sentenced to undergo
Rigorous Imprisonment for life and also to pay fine of Rs.10,000/- in
default R.I. for another 6 (six) months under Section 6 of the POCSO

Act. Both the sentences will concurrently.

Seized materials shall be destroyed in due course of

law. .
The accused person is already in custody. Issue
Imprisonment Warrant against the accused to serve the sentence

passed against him.
 

30 * a ae

Free copy of judgment be furnished to the convict

immediately.

Copy of the judgment be sent to learned District
Magistrate of Nagaon u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

The DLSA, Nagaon will make necessary enquiry to
provide compensation to the next of the kins of deceased 'X' under
the victim compensation scheme as envisaged u/s 357-A of Cr.P.C

Copy of the judgment be sent to the DLSA, Nagaon accordingly.

The Judgment is written on separate sheets and

pronounced in open court.

Given under my hand and seal of this court, | have
signed and delivered this Judgment on this 24" day of April, 2018 at

Nagaon. tS, ba W 8
(R.Kan Mud
speldanquaigare ain
Nagaon.
Dictated & corrected by me.
ey - 4-18
(RKax) Judge,
Special Judge,
Nagaon.
Dictation taken & transcribed by
WV fe— Refel onia
(Nipen Rajkhowa)
Stenographer.
OL

 

ANNEXURE

Prosecution Witnesses

Pox Peer
70
un

. PW.9
10.P.W.10
11.P.W.11
12.PW 12
13.PW 13
14.PW 14
15.PW 15

Kartik Namadas

Rani Namasudra

Netai Namasudra
Gourmoni Namasudra
Barnabas Orang

Hiralal Sarkar

Kanu Namasudra
Hemendra Biswas

Shasti Namasudra

Niyati Biswas

Niranjan Namasudra
Dr.P.J.Bora

Mrs. Renu Bora Handique
Dr. Sahidul Alom

S| Biju Kingkar Basumatary.

Prosecution Exhibits.

1.Ext.1
2.Ext.2
3.Ext.3
4.Ext.3(A)
5.Ext.4
6.Ext.5
7.Ext.6
8.Ext.7
9.Ext.8
10.Ext.9
11.Ext.10
12.Ext.11
13.Ext.12

Mat.Exhibits:

beeaes Seizure list.
beseees Seizure list.
= Seizure list.
benees FIR.
vs Fone Inquest Report Form
te Statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
beneaes Post-mortem Report
beeeeee FSL Report.
ree FSL acknowledgement.
vesees Injury certificate.
beeeees Sketch-map.
becees Charge-sheet.

1. Mat.Ext.1 is the blue colour skirt, sandal, jangia, clip
and rubber band,

2. Mat.Ext.2 is the long pant and jangia and

3. Mat.Ext.3 is white colour dhoti

 
, \ g \
x]
32 2
Defence Witness.
1. DW 1... Ramdhan Namasudra
2. DW 2. oo. Chanchala Biswas

Defence Exhibit
Nil
Say 18
Special: ude)

Nagaon.Assam.

 

 
