Spl.(POCSO) Case No.48/2019

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: CACHAR.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.48 of 2019
(U/S 366 IPC and Sec. 6 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......cccccccsseecccecssssaessseeeessstseeees Complainant.
-Versus-

Abdul Karim Uddin Laskat.................00c0c0 Accused person.

Charge framed On :m...........cccccccccccceteeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeetess 5/11/19

P.WS. @XAMINE ON ir... eceseeeeeeeeveueeveueeseveusavauss 26/11/19

Argument heard ON !- ou... eccccccccccccccceeeeeeeeeeeseeeeseeeees 26/11/19.

Judgment pronounced and delivered on:-...........006 26/11/19.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : MrJ.U. Laskar, Ld.advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an

FIR with the O/C Borkhola P.S. stating the facts that on 04.06.17 at about
4 a.m. the accused persons Karim Uddin Laskar and Ramjan Ali Laskar
trespassed in to the dwelling house of the informant and kidnapped the
minor daughter of the informant. Thereafter on search the victim was
found in the house of the accused persons. The accused persons did not

hand over the victim to the informant rather abused the informant and
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.48/2019

drove him out from his house.

2. On receipt of the FIR, a regular PS case was registered vide
Borkhola P.S. Case No.137/19 U/S 366 A / 34_ IPC. Police started
investigation and during the course of investigation the statement of the
victim girl was recorded U/S 164 CrP.C. The victim girl was also sent to
SMCH, Silchar for medical examination. The investigating officer visited the
place of occurrence and prepared a rough sketch map. He also recorded
statement of the witnesses and subsequently after completion of
investigation submitted charge sheet against present accused person Abdul
Karim Uddin Laskar only U/S 366 IPC read with Section 6 of POCSO Act.

3. The offence u/s Sec.6 of POCSO Act being exclusively triable
by the Court of Special Judge, this case was_ transferred to this court by
the Ld.Judicial Magistrate, 1% class, Cachar, Silchar and the same is taken
up for trial by this court. In due course, upon appearance of the accused
and after hearing both sides formal charge U/S 366 IPC and Section 6 of
POCSO Act was framed by this court against the accused person. The
charges having been read over and explained the accused pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(i) Whether the accused person on 4.06.2017 at about 4 a.m.
kidnapped the victim- daughter of the informant, with intent that she might
be compelled or knowing it likely that she would be seduced or forced to
sexual intercourse, as alleged ?

(2) Whether the accused person committed aggravated

penetrative sexual assault upon the victim, as alleged ?
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.48/2019

ah During trial, prosecution side examined two witnesses i.e, the
victim and informant as PW.1 and PW.2. As per submission of Id. P.P. the
evidence of the prosecution side is closed. As no incriminating materials
appears to be found against the accused during evidence the recording of
statement of the accused U/S 313 CrP.C. is dispensed with. Defence

declined to adduce any evidence.

6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have

also heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF

Pe Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused

person as mentioned in point for determination.

8. PW.1 is the victim who is the prime witness of this case and she
deposed in her deposition that about a year ago, the occurrence took place.
She was in love affairs with the accused Abdul Karim. She further deposed
that her father intends to give marriage with some other boy to which she
was not willing and as such she eloped with the accused. Thereafter her
father lodged the FIR and he assured that he would give her marriage with
the accused person and thereaftr herself and the accused appeared before
the Borkhola PS. Police sent her to SMCH, Silchar for her medical
examination and to Court wherein her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was
recorded. She further deposed that her parents gave her marriage with the
accused person and presently, she has been staying with the accused. At

the time of occurrence, she was a student of higher secondary 2™ year.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.48/2019

In her cross examination she stated that at the time of
occurrence, she was aged about 18 years 6 months. She went with the
accused out of her own accord and she is having one child from the side of
the accused and residing with the accused in his house as his wife. She
further deposed that her parents socially gave her marriage with the

accused after the incident.

9. PW.2 Komor Uddin Mazumder who is the informant of the case
deposed that the occurrence took place about 2 years ago and at that time,
her daughter, the victim was a student of higher secondary 2" year. He
further deposed that as his daughter had not returned to his home and as
such he lodged the FIR before Borkhola PS. He further deposed that later
on,he came to know that her daughter due to her love affairs eloped with
the accused and then PW.2 told his daughter that he would give her
marriage with the accused. He further deposed that they gave marriage of
the victim with the accused. He also deposed that in the meantime, the
victim gave birth to a female child and presently she is living peacefully with
the accused as his wife. In his cross examination PW.2 stated that at the
time of occurrence the age of his victim daughter was 18 years and 6

months.

10. So, from the evidence of prime witnesses i.e. the victim PW.1
and the informant PW.2 it appears that they did not at all implicate the
accused person in the alleged offence of crime U/S 366 of IPC and Sec. 6
of POCSO Act. Rather, it is cropped up from their evidence that while the
victim was major she eloped with the accused out of love affairs and
subsequently they got married and presently they have been living as

husband and wife happily and they are blessed with a female child.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.48/2019

11. Upon consideration of all the above aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/S 366 IPC and Sec.6 of

POCSO Act against accused person —Abdul Karim Uddin Laskar.

12. In view of the above, accused person is not held guilty and
stand acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty
forthwith. Bail bond stands discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court
on this the 26" day of November, 2019.
Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee,
Stenographer
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.48/2019

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 48 of 2019.

APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — victim
P.W. 2 — Komor Uddin Laskar

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.1 - Statement

Ext. 2 — FIR

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
