IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE tititiititiiuitiininiiitiin: DHUBRI

Present :- Shri J. Borah, AJS
Special Judge,Dhubri.

SPECIAL CASE NO.108 OF 2018
U/s.376(2)(i) of Indian Penal Code
U/s.4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,2012

State of Assam

Vs
Samsul Hoque
@ Samsul Sk
... Accused Person.
Date of Framing Charge :-12-12-2018
Dates of Recording Evidence :-21-12-2018
03-01-2019
Date of Argument :- 03-01-2019
Date of Judgment :- 03-01-2019

Advocates Appeared :
For the State of Assam :- Shri S.C. Ray

Learned Addl.P.P.

For the Defence :- Shri G. Ahmed
Learned Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. This case is U/s.376(2)(i) I.P.C and Section 4 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, so, the name of the victim is
not mentioned here and she is hereinafter referred to 'X'.

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Rabeya Beya, the
informant lodged an ejahar with Golakganj Police Station on
12.8.2014 informing that 'X' is the minor daughter of the
informant. On 2.8.014, there was none in the house of the
informant except her daughter 'X'. The accused Samsul Hoque,
conspired by the accused Dil Mohammad, entered into the

Contd.Page-2.
household compound of the informant and he committed sexual
intercourse with 'X'. when the accused wanted to go away after
commission of rape, the villagers caught hold of the accused
Samsul Hoque. One Maharuddin Bepari took away the accused
giving promise that he would arrange a meeting. The informant
waited for village meeting, but it did not hold.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against
the above named accused.
3. The Golakganj Police Station received the ejahar and
registered vide Golakganj Police Station Case No.612/014
U/s.120(B)/447/376(1)(i)/420/34 |.P.C R/W Sec.4 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act. The case was investigated by
the police and having found prima facie U/s.120(B)/447/376(1)
(i)/420/34 I.P.C R/W Sec.4 of Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, in short, POCSO against the accused Samsul Hoque
@ Samsul Seikh laid the charge sheet before the court for trial.
4. The accused Samsul Hoque @ Samsul Seikh appeared in the
court of Special Judge, Dhubri. The Hon'ble Special Judge received
the case and transferred to this court for trial.
5. The accused Samsul Hoque @ Samsul Seikh, hereinafter
called the accused, appeared in this case. He was furnished copy.
Charge was framed U/s.376(2)(i) IPC and Sec.4 of POCSO Act
against the accused. The charge was read over and explained to
the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.
6. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against
the accused, examined 4 (four) witnesses, namely --

1. Rabeya Bewa PW-1
2. X/the victim PW-2
3. Gul Majar Seikh PW-3
4. Jakiron Bibi PW-4

Contd.Page-3.
Vs Since there found no incriminating evidence adduced by
the prosecution witnessess against the accused, so the accused
was not examined U/s.313 Cr.P.C.

8. Heard argument for both sides.

9. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :

(i) Whether the accused on 2.8.018 at about 4-00 in the
afternoon at village Biskhowa Part-V under Golakganj Police Station
committed rape on the daughter of the informant 'X' under the
age of sixteen and thereby committed an offence U/s.376(2)(i)
I.P.C.

(ii) Whether the accused on 2.8.018 at about 4-00 in the
afternoon at village Biskhowa Part-V under Golakganj Police
Station committed penetrative sexual assault on the daughter of
the informant 'X' and thereby committed offence U/s.4 of POCSO
Act.

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :
10. In this prosecution case, PW-1 Rabeya Bewa is the
informant, PW-2 'X' is the alleged victim, PW-3 Gul Mazar Seikh
and PW-4 Jakiron Bibi are two independent witnessess.
12. Let us now go through the evidence available on record.

PW-1 Rabeya Bewa has stated in her evidence that she is
the informant in this case and she lodged the case against the
accused. The accused is their relative. He used to visit their house
now and then. The villagers asked her to lodge this case against
the accused and accordingly she followed it. Ext-1 is the said
ejahar and Ext-1(1) is her signature.

In her cross, PW-1 has stated that she did not read the
ejahar. The villagers wrote the ejahar and he signed it. The
accused did not perform any sexual intercourse with her daughter
nor he did any evil against her.

Contd.Page-4.
13. PW-2 'X' has stated in her evidence that the accused used
to visit their house. He did not commit sexual intercourse on her.
PW-2 has also stated that the villagers compelled her mother to
lodge the case against the accused. She gave her statement
before the Magistrate and she gave the said statement as per
instruction of the villagers.

In her cross, PW-2 has stated that she was 20 years at the
time of occurrence. There was enmity between the villagers and
them. The accused did not commit sexual intercourse with her.

14. PW-3 Gul Mazar Seikh has stated in his evidence that he
knows nothing about the occurrence. There was hue and cry in the
village, but he did not know the cause behind it.

In his cross, PW-3 has stated that the villagers prepared a
false story. The accused did not do any evil on 'X'.

15.  PW-4 Jakiron Bibi has stated in her evidence that she knows
nothing about the occurrence nor she heard about it.

In her cross, PW-4 has stated that she resides nearby the

house of the informant.
16. Thus, careful scrutiny of evidence of prosecution witnessess
1 to 4, it appears that PW-1 being the informant and PW-2 being
the alleged victim has adduced evidence not incriminating the
accused. Both of them sternly denied to commit sexual
intercourse with PW-2 'X'. They also categorically denied to
perform any evil on 'X'. They have, rather, stated that it is the
village people who compelled them to lodge the case against the
accused. Both PW-1 and PW-2 have admitted in their respective
evidence that the accused used to visit their house. But the
accused is their relative. There was enmity between villagers and
the family of the informant. This enmity led the villagers to
instigate the informant to lodge the case against the accused. PW-
1, the informant has stated in her evidence that she only signed

Contd.Page-5.
the ejahar, Ext-1. She did not know the content of it. PW-2 who is
the alleged victim sternly denied to commit sexual intercourse on
her by the accused. She reiterated in her evidence that the
accused being relative to their family used to visit their house and
for this act, the village people, out of enmity, compelled her
mother to lodge the case against the accused. PW-2 has also
stated that she gave her statement before the Magistrate as
taught by the villagers.

17. Thus, there found no inculpatory evidence adduced by the
prosecution witnessess against the accused. The prosecution
evidence is not sufficient and satisfactory to prove the offences as
alleged against the accused.

The prosecution has failed to prove it's case U/s.376(2)(i)
|.P.C and Sec.4 of POCSO Act.
18. Held, the accused is not guilty U/s.376(2)(i) I1.B.C and U/s.4 of
POCSO Act.

Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty.
The bail bond stands cancelled and the bailor is discharged
from all liabilities.

The case is disposed of.
Given under my hand and seal of this court on this 3rd day of
January,2019.
Transcribed & Typed by
Special Judge
Stenographer Dhubri
Court of the Special Judge
Dhubri

Contd.Page-6.
APPENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses
PW-1 Rabeya Bewa
PW-2 X/the victim
PW-3 Gul Mazar Seikh
PW-4 Jakiron Bibi
Defence Witness :- Nil
Prosecution Exhibits
Ext-1 Ejahar

Special Judge
Dhubri
