PAGE:1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, NORTH SALMARA,
ABHAYAPURI

Present: Shri P. Bora, A.J.S.
Special Judge
North Salmara, Abhayapuri

Special (P)44 (A) of 2019
U/S 8 of POCSO Act,2012

State of Assam
Vs
Dhrubajyoti Das

Appearance

Smti.R.Choudhury ~~ --------- Special P.P. for the State.
Mr.M. Kalita 4 4 42 w=+e===- Ld. Defence Counsel.
Charge framed On ln sa eaeeees 18.12.2019

Evidence recorded on ~_ ---------- 19.02.2020

Argument heard on ~=~_ —--------- 28.02.2020

Judgment Pronounced on --------- 06.03.2020

UDGMENT

1 The case for the prosecution in brief is that on 22.06.2018, the
informant Alok Kumar Das lodged an F.I.R before the office-in-charge of
Abhayapuri Police Station alleging inter alia that his daughter who used
to go her school in the auto-rickshaw which was driven by the accused
and on the day of occurrence the accused person misbehaved with his
daughter, put her some ridiculous question and wanted to touch the
private parts of the body of his daughter. Hence, the case.

2 After receiving the said ehahar, the officer in charge of
Abhayapuri Police Station was pleased to register the same vide
Abhayapuri PS case No. 349 dated 22.06.2018. Police started
PAGE:2

investigation and after completion of the investigation the investigating
officer submitted charge sheet against the accused person U/S 8 of
POSCO Act, 2012. .

3. The accused person appeared before court to face the trial. The
copies of all the relevant documents furnished to the accused. After
perusing and considering all the relevant documents referred to U/S
173 Cr.P.C, finding a prima facie case a formal charge U/S 8 of POCSO
Act, 2012 has been framed against the accused and the same on being
read over and explained to the accused person to which accused
person pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4 To bring home the charge against the accused person in this
case the prosecution side has adduced and examined as many as 2
(two) witnesses including the informant and victim, but defence
examined none. After perusing and considering th evidence on record,

examination of the accused person u/s 313 Cr.P.C is dispensed with.
5.POINTS FOR DECISIONS

Whether the accused person on 15.06.2018, committed any
sexual assault upon the victim and thereby committed an offence
punishable U/S 8 of the POCSO Act,2012.

6. DECISION AND REASONS FOR DECISION-

| have gone carefully through the entire evidence of the record. |
have also heard and considered the argument put forwarded by the Ld
SplI.P.P for the State as well as Ld. Counsel for defence. In this case the
prosecution side has examined Sri Alok Kumar Das, the father of the
victim, who is the informant of this case as PW-1 and exhibited the F.I.R
vide Ext. 1 and Ext. 1(1) is the signature of PW-1.

7. In course of evidence PW-1, who is the informant of this case
stated that he himself have not written the F.I.R and does not know
who has written the F.I.R. It also reveals from the evidence of PW-1 that
neither he himself read out the contents of the F.I.R nor the contents of
PAGE:3

the F.I.R was read over to him by anyone and hence he does not know
what has been written in the F.I.R. Thus, it is revealed that PW-1, who is
the informant of this case expressed his ignorance about the fact as
alleged in the F.l.R and in my considered view such kind of ignorance
on the part of the informant about the fact as alleged in the FI.R
definitely weaken and reduced the weight, authenticity and credibility
of the F.I.R, which puts the machinery of law into motion. Accordingly,
on this point the benefit goes to the defence.

8. PW-1, the father of the victim and the informant of this case in
course of evidence stated that about one year back on a day he heard
that while his daughter, who was coming to her house from her school
by boarding in the auto-rickshaw of the accused person, suddenly
when a chaotic situation arose among the passengers, who were also
coming along with his daughter in the auto-rickshaw, which was driven
by the accused person, then the hands of the accused person fell down
on the body of his daughter, but in course of cross examination PW-1
clearly stated that after lodging the F.I.R, he came to know that while
the chaotic situation arose among the passengers, who were coming in
the auto-rickshaw of the accused person along with his daughter, the
hands of the accused person fell down on the body of his daughter
unintentionally and in fact the accused person actually wanted to save
his daughter from sustaining any kind of injury by falling down from the
auto-rickshaw. In course of cross examination PW-1 reiterated that so
far his knowledge is concerned the accused person never touched the
body of his daughter with any bad intention and the said fact was also
stated to him by his daughter. That apart, PW-1, the informant, who is
the father of the victim in course of cross examination clearly stated
that in fact he has lodged the F.I.R as pressurized by the passengers,
who were coming in the auto-rickshaw of the accused person along
with his daughter and the F.I.R was lodged by him only due to some
misunderstanding. PW-1 further stated that so far his knowledge is
concerned the accused person never committed any misdeed or

mischief with his daughter.
PAGE:4

9. Thus, after perusing and considering the evidence of PW-1, the
informant along with the F.I.R, which was exhibited by the prosecution
vide Ext.1, the oral testimony of PW-1, the informant, who himself
lodged the F.I.R appears to be not in conformity with the fact as alleged
in the FIR.

10. In this case the prosecution side has examined the daughter of
PW-1, the victim as PW-2. The prosecution side has also exhibited the
statement of PW-2, the victim, as recorded u/s 164 Cr.PC vide Ext.2
and Ext. 2(1) and Ext. 2(2) are the signatures of PW-2.

11. Now let us discuss, assess and evaluate the evidentiary value of
the victim, who was examined by the prosecution as PW-2. In course of
evidence PW-2 stated that about one year back while she was studying
in Class-X at Abhayapuri Monfort School, she used to come and go to
her school by the auto-rickshaw of the accused person. PW-2 further
stated that about one year back on a particular day after fishing her
school hour when she along with her friends were coming to their
house in the auto-rickshaw of the accused person, on their way while
they make noise in the auto rickshaw, the accused person, who was
driving the auto-rickshaw, rebuked to control them and while she was
about to fall down from the auto-rickshaw by making noise, the
accused person saved her by holding her hands and thereafter the
accused person also rage and rebuked her, in connection with which
her father has lodged the F.I.R. In course of cross examination PW-2
stated that the accused person never hold her hands with any bad
intention, rather the accused person hold her hands only to save her
while she was about to fall down from his auto rickshaw. PW-2 further
stated that the accused person on whose auto rickshaw she used to
come and go to her school never make any mischief or misdeed with
her not only on that day but on previous occasions also. In course of
cross examination PW-2 clearly stated that the accused person is
totally innocent and her father has lodged this case only due to some
misunderstanding. In this case although the prosecution side has
PAGE:5

exhibited the statement of the victim as recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C, vide
Ext. 2 and Ext. 2(1) and Ext. 2(2) are her signatures, but in course of
cross examination PW-2 clearly stated that she has given her
statement as tutored and forced by the police personnel.

12. The above is the threadbare discussion of the evidence on
record.

13. After perusing and considering the evidence on record in its
entirety and considering the argument put forwarded by the learned
counsel for the prosecution as well as defence, it appears that in this
case the prosecution side has failed to produce any solid and concrete
evidence against the accused person. The evidence of P.W.1, who is the
informant as well as father of the victim of this case appears to be not
only in conformity with the fact as alleged in the F.I.R, but at the same
time, it appears that PW-1 was completely silent about the involvement
of the accused person in commission of the offence as alleged. That
apart PW-1 who is the informant of this case has also expressed his
ignorance about the fact as alleged in the F.I.R, and such kind of
ignorance about the fact as alleged in the F.I.R, on the part of the
informant definitely weaken and reduced the weight and authenticity
as well as credibility of the whole prosecution case. None of any single
witnesses aS examined by the prosecution in support of its case
supplements any fuel to strengthen the case of the prosecution. Even
from the evidence of the victim, who is the star witness of the
prosecution case, the prosecution side has failed to inspire any support
to build up its case as alleged against the accused person as from the
evidence of victim and the informant, who is the father of the victim,
the prosecution side has totally failed either to collect or accumulate
any materials or evidence involving the accused person in
commission of the offence as alleged. After perusing and considering
the evidence on record no any inference can be drawn from the
evidence of any single witnesses that the accused person is in any way

involve in commission of the offence as alleged.
PAGE:6

14. In the ultimate analyses on the light of above discussions, it
appears that in this case the prosecution side has failed to produce any
single iota of evidence against the accused person which is sufficient to
fasten the accused with the charge as alleged against him beyond all
reasonable doubt. Thus, in this case the prosecution has not only failed
to operate the switch of the prosecution case for ignition but could not
even identify and point out the proper switch of the prosecution on the
board itself, hence the court have no any alternative but to acquit the
accused person from the charge as levelled against him.

15. | therefore acquit the accused person from the charge levelled
against him. | also released the accused person from liability of bail
bond and set him at liberty.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this 06 ™ day of
March/2020.

Dictated and corrected by me

Special Judge Special Judge
North salmara, Abhayapuri North salmara, Abhayapuri
PAGE:7
APPENDIX

. Prosecution Exhibits

Exhibit 1 - The FIR

Exhibit 1(1) - The signature of PW-1

Exhibit 2 - The statement of P.W.2 U/S
164 Cr.PC.

Exhibit 2(1)

Exhibit 2(2) - The signatures of PW-2

. Material Exhibit by prosecution
Material Ext.1- Nil

. Defence Exhibits NIL

. Prosecution Witnesses

PW1 Musstt. Morjina Nessa, the informant
PW2 Lal Bhanu, the victim

. Defence Witnesses NIL

. Court Witnesses NIL

Special Judge
North Salmara, Abhayapuri
