Page 1 of 8

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE DARRANG,MANGALDAI.

 

Special(POCSO) case No.3/15.
(U/S :354 IPC & 8 of POCSO )

State
Versus

1)Md. Ajahar Ali,

S/O Md. Sahed Ali

Vill- No.1 Dhalpur,

P.S.- Sipajhar,

Dist- Darrang(Assam)
--Accused.

PRESENT: Sri G.Baruah,A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge.
Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPERANCE:

For the Prosecution : Sri G.R.Baruah, P.P.,Mangaldai
AND

For the accused : Md. B. Ali, Advocate.

Evidence recorded on: 11/08/15, 18/12/15, 12/11/15, 01/12/15,
and 28/03/16.

Argument heard on — : 27/04/2016.

Judgment delivered on: 30/04/2016.
Page 2 of 8

JUDGMENT:

. The prosecution case as unfolded during trial is that one Md.Abdul Bakki
on 25/12/14 lodged an FIR before the O/C, Sipajhar PS inter alia alleging
that on 24/12/14 at around 4.30 p.m. while his daughter Miss Phul Banu
aged about 10 years had gone to bring back their goat from the nearby
field, the FIR named accused person Ajahar Ali dragged her by her hand
to the maize field and with bad intention pressed her on the ground.
When his daughter raised alarm nearby people came and caught the
accused person and handed over to Dhalpur VDP and as such, prayed to
take necessary action. In the FIR he has named Ajahar Ali as accused.

. On receipt of the FIR, O/C, Sipajhar PS registered Sipajhar PS case
No.803/14 U/S 354 I.P.C. read with Section 6 of POCSO Act. Police during
the course of investigation has recorded the 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the
victim through a Judicial Magistrate First Class, Mangaldai, examined her
before a Doctor, arrested the accused and forwarded him to judicial
custody and after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet
against the accused Ajahar Ali U/S 354 I.P.C. read with Section 6 of the
POCSO Act.

. During the course of investigation the accused was allowed to go on bail.
After submission of charge sheet the accused made his appearance
before this court and he was allowed to remain on previous bail. After
going through the record and after hearing the learned counsel of both
sides, this court found prima-facie materials to frame charge U/S 354
I.P.C. read with Section 8 of POCSO and accordingly, framed charge. On
being read over and explained the accused person pleaded not guilty and
Claimed to be tried.

. The prosecution in order to bring home the charges against the accused
person has examined altogether 7 PWs including Medical Officer and one
Investigating Officer.

313 CrP.C. statement of the accused person was recorded. In his
statement the accused took the plea that on the day of occurrence one
goat entered into his field and destroyed the crops for which he was

dragging the goat with a rope. He stated that the victim along with her
10.

Page 3 of 8

friend Khudeja and Hasina arrived and asked him to leave the goat and
when he refused the victim girl dragged the goat from one side and when
he dragged the goat from other side the victim fell on the ground and
sustained injury. He stated thereafter he left the goat and victim took the
same. He also took the plea that he has previous quarrel with the father
of the victim.
I have heard the argument put forwarded by the learned Public
prosecutor as well as the learned defence counsel. I have gone through
the entire case record, evidence brought into record, both oral and
documentary.
Points for determination:
(i)Whether on 24/12/14 at around 4.30 p.m. at village Dhalpur under
Sipajhar PS the accused Ajahar Ali used criminal force against the victim
girl aged about 10 years intending to outrage her modesty and at the
same time committed sexual assault on the victim girl and thereby
committed an offence punishable U/S 354 IPC read with Section 8 of
POCSO Act?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

The prosecution has examined Dr. Archana Baruah as PW6 who has

 

deposed that on 26/12/14 she has examined the victim girl, daughter of
Abdul Bakki in connection with Sipajhar PS case No.803/14 and after
examination found her age approximately between 12 to 14 years. She
has not found any injury mark on her private party. She has exhibited her
report as ext.2 and Ext.2(1) as her signature. The defence has not cross-
examined PW6.

From the evidence of PW6 it is found that she has not been cross-
examined and from her evidence it is clear that the victim on the day of
occurrence was approximately aged 12 to 14 years and that the Doctor
has not found any injury on her private part. From the evidence of PW6 it
is clear that the victim was a minor girl on the day of occurrence.

The prosecution has examined the informant Abdul Bakki as PW1. He has
deposed that on 24/12/14 at around 4.30 p.m. his victim daughter aged

about 10 years went in search of their goat and at that time the accused
11.

12.

13.

Page 4 of 8

person Ajahar Ali dragged her towards the maize cultivation and tried to
commit rape upon her. He also deposed that at that time his daughter
was accompanied by two of her friends and as they raised hue and cry
nearby people gathered there, his daughter was recovered and the
accused was caught and handed over to VDP who in turn handed him
over to Police station. He stated that in this connection he lodged the FIR,
where he put his thumb impression. During his cross-examination PW1
stated that at the time of occurrence he was in the market. He stated that
the accused has cultivable land adjacent to his own land and boundary
dispute is going on between them for quite sometimes and on the day of
occurrence he came to home only at 8 p.m.. He also stated that he heard
about the incident from the village people and lodged the FIR.

While going through the evidence of PW1 the informant it is found that
he has not seen the occurrence. He filed the FIR after hearing about the
incident from village people. He has not stated during his evidence from
whom he has heard about the incident. He admits during cross that the
cultivable land of the accused is adjacent to his land and a boundary
dispute was going on between them.

The prosecution examined the victim girl as PW2 who deposed that the
occurrence took place in the month of Puh in the year 2014 when she
was studying in class V. He deposed that on that day at around 4.30 p.m.
she along with his friend Khudeja and Hasina went in search of their goat
and while they were searching their goat the accused Ajahar dragged her
towards the maize field and tried to commit rape upon her. But when they
raised hue and cry some other persons appeared and rescued her. She
also stated that the accused person was caught by the other person and
handed over to VDP party. She also stated that she gave her statement
U/S 164 Cr.P.C. before the Magistrate and she identified the same as ext.1
and ext.1(1)and 1(2) as her signatures.

During her cross examination she deposed that on the day of occurrence
she along with Khudeja and Hasina went in search of their goat to the
maize field. She admitted that the maize cultivation of her family is

adjacent to the maize cultivation of the accused. She also stated that she
14.

15.

16.

Page 5 of 8

saw her goats when inside the maize field of the accused and the accused
dragging their goat towards his home. She stated that she went to bring
back the goat from the accused person. She further stated in cross
examination that when the accused dragged the goat through a rope she
fell on the ground and thereafter she raised alarm. She also stated that
after hearing her alarm one Latif who was working near the maize field
came running and took her up from the ground. She also stated that she
saw other persons also gathered at the spot. In her cross she specifically
stated that the accused person has not committed any act of outraging
her modesty. She also stated that a dispute is going on between her
father and the accused person.

While going through the evidence of PW2 victim girl we found that she in
her evidence in examination-in-chief has deposed that on the day of
occurrence the accused dragged her towards the maize field and tried to
commit rape upon her and on the other hand, during cross examination
she specifically stated that the accused has not done anything to outrage
her modesty. She also specifically stated in cross that she fell on the
ground when the accused dragged the goat with a rope and thereafter
she raised alarm. From the evidence of the victim it appears that she is
contradicting her own statement which she has given in her examination-
in-chief.

While scrutinizing the evidence of the victim girl , we found that there is
no dispute that she is a child aged 10 to 12 years. Hon’ble Supreme Court
in catena of cases has observed that while evaluating the evidence of a
child witness court has to be very careful as the child is an easy prey to
tutoring. Therefore, before acting on the testimony of child witness court
should look for adequate corroboration from other evidence( reported in
(1998)7 SCC 177 Panchi and others VS State of UP).

In another case reported in 2000(3) SCC page 70 State of UP Vs Ashok
Dixit, the Hon’ble Supreme Court held that it is always subject to question
of fact in every case, and there is no universal rule that the evidence of a
child witness, even if it cannot be dislodged on the test of facts and

probability of a particular case the same can never be sufficient for
17.

18.

19.

20.

Page 6 of 8

convicting an accused without corroboration. A careful perusal of the
observation of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in connection with the
evaluating the evidence of a child witness it is clear that though there is
no rule that the testimony of the child witness cannot be accepted, but it
is always safe for the court to look for corroboration.

In our case we have found that the victim in her evidence has
contradicted her own statement during cross examination. The
prosecution has examined Must. Khudeja aged about 11 years who is the
friend of the victim and was present with the victim on the day of
occurrence as PW4. She deposed before the court that she knows both
the accused and victim girl who is her friend and also stated that on the
day of occurrence goats of the victim went to the maize field of the
accused, where the accused has kept the goat for which some hue and
cry took place. She specifically stated during cross that she was present
with the victim girl. She stated that the goats of the victim girl has
destroyed some maize cultivation of the accused and when the victim
tried to bring back the goat from the field of the accused person the
accused resisted the same by dragging the goat for which the victim fell
on the ground. She also stated that at that time one Latif Ali appeared at
the place of occurrence.

The prosecution has examined Md. Latif Ali as PW5. He deposed that at
the time of occurrence he was working in the field and heard crying of
the victim girl and one Hasina and another girl and he went towards them
and saw the accused person trying to go away from the place of
occurrence. He stated that he caught the accused and handed over him
to the VDP personnel. During cross he confirmed when he reached the
place of occurrence he has found the victim lying on the ground with her
two friends nearby along with goats. He also stated that thinking that
accused might have assaulted the victim he caught hold of him.

The prosecution has also examined one Hasen Ali as PW3, who simply
stated that he heard that the accused tried to assault the victim when the
victim went to the maize field to bring her goats.

While evaluating the evidence which has come into record together we

found that the testimony of the victim which she has deposed in her
21.

22.

Page 7 of 8

examination-in-chief has not been corroborated by the other witnesses.
At the same time whatever the victim has deposed during her cross
examination is found to be corroborated by the other witnesses. In her
cross examination the victim has stated that when the accused dragged
the goat with a rope she fell on the ground and thereafter, raised alarm
and one Latif Ali arrived there. She has also stated in cross that Khudeja
and Hasina were with her. That she fell on the ground while the accused
dragged the goat with a rope has been corroborated by her friend
Khudeja during her evidence. Another witness Latif has only stated that
he caught the accused thinking that the accused might have assaulted
the victim. He also confirmed to have seen victim, her friends and goat in
the place of occurrence. Latif Ali has not seen any other incident. The
Hon’ble Supreme Court as discussed earlier have observed that before
acting on the testimony of a child witness the court must seek for
corroboration, if not as a rule, but as a rule of prudence. While going
through the evidence available we only found that the victim on the day
of occurrence went to the maize field along with her friend in search of
goats and her goats have entered into the maize field of the accused
person and at the time of dragging the goats she sustained injury. The
victim in her cross examination has clearly stated that the accused has
not done anything to outrage her modesty. We also found that during the
entire course of trial the accused person has been taking this plea that
the goats of the victim girl has destroyed some of his maize cultivation for
which he refused to return the goats and was dragging the goats towards
his home and when the victim also dragged the goats she fell on the
ground and sustained injury.

It is a settled position of law that in a criminal case the prosecution must
prove the guilt of the accused beyond all reasonable doubts and the
accused person can not be convicted on presumption or assumption.
From the earlier discussion we have found that the prosecution has not
been able to prove the guilt of the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubt. As such, in my view the accused is entitled for acquittal .

Accordingly, the accused Md. Ajahar Al is acquitted from all charges. He is
23.

Page 8 of 8

set at liberty forthwith. However, his bail bond shall remain in force for
next 6(six) months U/S 437(A) CrP.C.

Seized articles, if any, be destroyed in due course of time.

Givein under my hand and seal of this Court this 30 day of April,2016.

Dictated and corrected by me and

each page bears my signatures.
( G. Baruah)
Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.

Sessions Judge,

Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPENDIX:

A)Prosecution witnesses:
i)PW1 Abdul Bakki

ii)PW2 Miss Phul Banu.

iii)PW3 Md. Hasen Ali

iv)PW4 Mustt. Khodeja Khatun.
v)PW5 Md. Latif Ali

vi)PW6 Dr. Archana Baruah.
vii)PW7 Sri Sarat Ch. Tamung.

B)Defence witness: Nil.

C)Exhibits:

i)Ext.1, statement of victim
ii)Ext.2, Medical Report.
iii)Ext.3, FIR.

iv)Ext.4, sketch map.
v)Ext.5, charge sheet.

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
