IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE eziiit:: KOKRAJHAR

Sessions case No.116/2014

State of Assam
Vs.
Md Mohibul Hoque _............. Accused

Present: Sri P.K.Bora, A.J.S.
Sessions Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocates for the accused : Mr A.K.Miah

Ld. advocate for the State : Mr N.Roy (P.P.)

Evidence recorded on : 04.4.15, 30.4.15, 22.5.15, 03.7.15,

01.8.15
and 19.9.15
Argument heardon — : 08.10.2015
Judgment delivered on : 16.10.2015
JUDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 27.01.2014 one

Mosstt Asia Bibi lodged an FIR (Ext.1) before the In-charge of Chithila P.P.,
Fakiragram P.S. stating that on 25.01.2014 in the evening at about 5.30 p.m.
her daughter Ruksana Begum had set out to bring cattle from the paddy field,
but she did not return, that on the next day morning she heard from Samser Ali
that the dead body of Ruksana Begum was found in the paddy field.

2. Having received an Ejahar police registered a case and
investigated the matter and finally submitted the charge sheet against the

accused Mohibul Hoque and Nashiruddin Sk. The accused Nasiruddin Sk. was
a juvenile so he was sent to face trial before the Juvenile Justice Board.
Learned
Sess.case

No.116/14

2

committing court committed the case to this court. On his appearance before
this Court the written charge under section 302 IPC read with section 6 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,2012 was explained and read
over to the accused to which the accused pleaded not guilty.
3. Point for determination:

1) Whether the accused person committed penetrative sexual

assault to minor Ruksana Begum ?

2) Whether the accused person committed murder of the minor

Ruksana Begum ?
4. Reason and decision thereon:

In the course of trial prosecution examined the informant Mosstt
Asiya Bibi as PW1, Miss Rehana Khatun as PW2, Md Jabbar Ali as PW3, Md
Sahad Ali as PW4, Dr Nihar Ranjan Biswas as PW5, Md Bachu Ali as PW6,
Md Samser Ali as PW7, Mosstt Momina Bibi as PW8, Md Yakub Ali has
already been examined as PW8, Md Jahan Ali as PW9, Sri Nabajit Pathak as
PW10 and Sri Kanthiram Barman as PW11.
5. PWs 1, 2, 3 and 4 stated in their evidence that on the date of the
incident Ruksana Begum set out to bring cattle from the field and on the
following day the dead body of Ruksana Begum was found in the paddy field.
6. PW5 conducted the post mortem of the deceased Ruksana
Begum. According to him the death was due to strangulation which was ante
mortem and homicidal in nature. He found ligature in the hymen. Vagina swab
tests positive for spermatozoa contain. There is sign of recent penetration.
7. PW6 Md Bachu Ali father of the deceased Ruksana Begum

stated in his evidence that he suspected that the accused had murdered
Ruksana Begum because accused wanted to marry Momina Bibi elder sister of

Ruksana Begum and Momina Bibi was married to some other person. Accused

had warned that he cannot be prevented from marrying Ruksana Begum.
Sess.case

No.116/14

3
8. PW7 stated in his evidence that on the date of incident when he
reached paddy field to keep cattle he found a dead body. Later, he confirmed
that the dead body was belonged to his niece Ruksana Begum.
9. PW8 stated in her evidence that the accused wanted to marry her
and that when she got married to some other person accused told that he would
marry Ruksana Begum, otherwise he would do some unfair acts.
10. Pws 8 and 9 stated in their evidence that they saw a dead body of
Ruksana Begum.
11. PW10 Sri Nabajit Pathak conducted inquest of the deceased
Ruksana Begum and he found ligature mark in the neck and genital exposed
which was covered with the sand.
12. PW11 Sri Kathiram Barman investigated the case and as he was
transferred to some other station charge sheet of the case was filed by SI Lal
Chand Sikdar.
13. The accused person denied the indictment.
14. Mr A.K.Miah learned advocate for the accused submits that PW6
Bachu Ali and PW8 Momina Bibi suspected accused's hands in the alleged
incident of murder of Ruksana Begum. PW6 is the father of the deceased
Ruksana Begum while PW8 is the elder sister of the deceased Ruksana
Begum. According to Mr Miah the evidence of PWs 6 and 8 are not sufficient
to hold the accused person guilty for the commission of such a heinous
offence.
15. On perusal of the evidence of PW6 it reveals that he stated to the

1.0. that he did not suspect anyone.
16. On careful examination of the evidence it is seen that the I.O.
roped the accused Mohibur Hoque with this case on the basis of oral evidence
of the witnesses related to the deceased. The I.O. did not search for any
corroborative evidence. During the course of evidence before this court it has
not been proved that the accused was in search of an opportunity to
take

Sess.case

No.116/14

4

revenge of Momina's refusal to marry him. If that be so and the petitioner was
scared of that the accused might cause problem to his family than why he did
not institute a village 'mel' so that the village would aware of the fact the
accused would get a lesson. Not a single incident has been brought before this
court to show that the accused was faced some to the deceased or the member
of the family of the informant. Our case is based on circumstantial evidence.
The circumstantial evidence must form a circle of truth. In our case the
evidence falls short to point the guilt of the accused. Since the prosecution has
not been able to bring a single circumstance to show that none but the accused
had committed rape on Ruksana Begum and thereafter killed her by
strangulation, accused person cannot be held guilty. Thus, the accused person
deserves benefit of doubt. Thus, the accused person is accordingly acquitted
and set at liberty forthwith.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 16th day of
October/2015.
Dictated & corrected by me

Sessions Judge, Sessions
Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
Appendix

The prosecution witnesses are:
1. Mosstt Asiya Bibi ..PW1
2. Miss Rehana Khautn ....PW2

3. Md Jabbar Ali .PW3
4. Md Sahad Ali .PW4
5. Dr Nihar Ranjan Biswas ....PW5
6. Md Bachu Ali ....PW6
7. Md Samser Ali ws PW7
8. Mosstt Momina Bibi ..-PW8
9. Md Yakub Ali .... PW8
10.MdJahanAli a... PW9
11. Sri Nabajit Pathak ....PW10

12. Sri Kathiram Barman _....PW11

Sess.case
No.116/14
5
The Court Witness is : Nil
The exhibited documents:
1. Extd oo ow. FIR
2. EXt2 one Post Mortem report
3. Ext2 oa. Inquest report
The Defence witness and exhibit : Nil
Sessions

Judge,
Kokrajhar
