EcourtIS copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC)::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,
Addl. Sessions Judge (FTC),
Kokrajhar.

Special Case No.46/2018

U/S.4 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 Act &
363 of IPC

STATE OF ASSAM
Vs

Sri Ananda Barman,
S/O Sri Mondal Barman
Vill:- No.2 Dolgaon ,
P.S. Gossaigaon
District :- Kokrajhar.

beeenees Accused person
Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Monjit Ghose

Learned Counsel for the defence Mr.Madhab Prasad Upadhyay

Charge framed on 16.11.2018
Evidence recorded on 15.12.2018; 21.12.2018; 16.02.2019.

Argument heard on 27.02.2019
Judgment pronounced on 08.03.2019

UDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution is that on 27.8.2018 one xxx, the
father of the victim, lodged a writen FIR at Gossaingaon Police Station

alleging that on 26.8.2018 at about 6 p.m, accused Ananda Barman
EcourtIS copy
induced his daughter, the victim, and took her to the vacant residence
of Goriya where he committed rape on his daughter and forcibly took

her to Tamarhat.

2 On receipt of the FIR, a case U/S 363 of Indian Penal Code read
with Section 4 of the Protection of Children fom Sexual Offences Act,
2012 (POCSO Act) was registered and investigated. After completion of
the investigation, a charge sheet was laid against the accused Ananda
Barman for commission of offence U/S 363 IPC read with Section 4 of

the POCSO Act.

3. The accused person was not released on bail hence his trial took
place as under trial prisoner. A legal aid Counsel was also appointed for
the accused due to his impoverised means to enagage a Counsel of his

own choice. Later, the case was transferred to this Court for disposal.

4. After furnishing copies relevant under Section 207 CrPC and upon
hearing both sides, charges U/S U/S 363 IPC read with Section 4 of the
POCSO Act were framed against the accused to which he pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. In the course of trial prosecution examined 7 witnesses. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined U/S
313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and the accused

declined to adduce any evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused kidnapped the victim?

(ii) Whether the accused committed sexual intercourse with the
EcourtIS copy

victim, a minor girl?

DECISION AND REASONS :

6. PW 1 xxx is the mother of the victim. She deposed that the
occurrence took place about 3 months ago. She was ill and lying in bed.
During evening hours her daughter, the victim, had gone out for
nature’s call. At that time, accused Ananda Barman apprehended her
daughter and took her to the residence of Goriya. Goriya was away
from his home and his house was lying vacant. The accused kept her
daughter the whole night at the residence of Goriya and on the next
day he took her to Tamarhat. Pw 1 further deposed that we kept
searching for our daughter but could not find her. At Tamarhat, the local
boys detained the accused and the victim. Later, her husband went to
Tamarhat and brought her daughter. According to pw 1, her daughter,
he victim, informed her that accused committed sexual intercourse with

her.

7. In cross-examination pw 1 deposed that her daughter is now
aged about 12 years. When she searched for her daughter she had

gone to the house of accused.

8. Pw 2 xxxx, iS the victim of this case. She deposed that the
occurrence took place about 3 months back. She deposed that the
accused had given her a mobile phone but the phone was lost. The
accused was angry as to why she lost the phone. On the date of
occurrence, at about 6 p.m in the evening, while she had gone for
nature’s call, accused came and accosted her. Pw 2 deposed further

that accused held her mouth and took her to the residence of Goriya. At
EcourtIS copy
the residence of Goriya, the accused opened her wearing apparel and
forcefully committed sexual intercourse with her. She was suffering in
pain. At about 3 a.m in the morning, the accused took her to
Gossaingaon and from there to Tamarhat at his Aunt’s place. At
Tamarhat, some loal boys detained the accused along-with her. Later,
as deposed to by pw 2, her father went to Tamarhat and brought her to

village.

9. In cross-examination, pw 2 deposed that accused was working at
brick kiln at Rangia and wanted to take her to Rangia. She also deposed
that the accused entered the residence of Goriya first and then she
entered but she could not escape. She denied the suggestion that
accused did not take her by force. She admitted that she had not
created any alarm at night. She further deposed that on the following
day, the accused took her to Gossaingaon railway station for Rangia but
since they could not catch the train accused took her to Tamarhat. She
deposed that she had not created any alarm while the accused was
taking her to railway station or to bus stand. As deposed to by pw 2, at
Tamarhat the accused kept her in the residence of one Ram Prasad
Singha and informed Manjit Roy to tell her father that he has taken her
to Tamarhat. She also deposed that she had not informed Ram Prasad
Singha that accused has taken her by force. Pw 2 admitted in her cross-
examination that she knows Gobinda and that Gobinda too had
committed sexual intercourse with her by putting her in fear. The
defence then suggested that she was sexually abused by Gobinda and

not by accused but the victim denied this suggestion.
EcourtIS copy
10. Pw 3 xxx, is the father of the victim. He deposed that about 3
months back when he returned home he learnt that his daughter
Batashi Roy is missing. He could not find her at night. On the following
day, at about 9 a.m, he came to know that his daughter has been taken
to Tamarhat by the accused. He then went to Tamarhat and brought his
daughter. Pw 3 also deposed that he came to know from his daughter
that accused committed sexual intercourse with her at the residence of
Goriya. He thereafter lodged an FIR and had put thumb impression

therein.

11. In cross-examination, pw 3 deposed that he returned home at
about 6-7 p.m. While searching for his daughter he had gone to
residence of Nengcha, and some other villagers. He deposed that his
wife had gone to the residence of accused searching for their daughter.
He also deposed that he does not know from whose residence his

daughter was recovered.

12. Pw 4 Basanta Barman deposed that the occurrence took place
about 3 months ago. At night, xxx, the father of the victim, informed
him that his daughter is missing and accused has taken her. Following
day he came to know that the girl is at Dingdinga Mechpara. The girl
and the accused were brought to our village. There the girl informed us
that accused committed sexual intercourse with her at the residence of

Goriya. Later police was informed about the incident.

13. In cross-examination, he deposed that he came to know at
morning hours that child of xxx, the father of victim, was missing. He
admitted that he had not gone to bring the victim. The victim was

brought at about 2 p.m at Dalgaon.
EcourtIS copy
14. Pw 5 Bidyut Roy deposed that about 3 months back while he was
at his home watching television, xxx, the mother of the victim, came to
our residence and informed him that accused Ananda has taken her
dauhter and she is missing. He searched various places at Dalgaon but
could not find the girl. On the following day, at about 9 a.m, he learnt
that the girl has been found at Kharkhari Dindinga. The girl was brought
to village and in a village meeting the girl stated that she has been
raped by the accused at the residence of Goriya. Later police came and

took away the victim and the accused.

15. In cross-examination he deposed that he came to know from
Kartik that accused and the girl have been detained at Kharkhari
Dingdinga. He also deposed that the victim and the accused came to
their village at about 3.30 p.m and that he had personally asked the

child about the occurrence.

16. Pw 6 Dr. Sushma Brahma deposed that on 28.8.2018 deposed
that she was as Senior Medical Officer, RNB Civil Hospital, Kokrajhar. On
that day, on police requisition, she had examined the victim, and gave
her finding in the Form of Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2(1) is her
signature. In her opinion after clinical examination, ossification test,

vaginal smear, the the following results were noted;

i. The age of the girl is 13 years but below 15 years.

ii. No injury mark found on her body and private parts.

lii. She has been exposed to sexual intercourse several times

before 36 hours.
EcourtIS copy

iv. She is habituated to sexual intercourse.

17. In cross examination PW6 stated that that the age was
determined on the basis of radiological inferences. Pw6 also deposed
that in her opinion, the sexual intercourse with the victim was not

forceful.

18. PW7 Sri Rajib Lochan Das is the Investigating Officer of the case

and he deposed to about the usual aspects of the investigation.

19. In cross-examination PW7 deposed that victim and the accused
were apprehended by public and handed over to police. He admitted
that he had not visited Mechpara. He also deposed that he has not
examined Goria in the course of investigation. He also deposed that he
had not found any blood stains in the place of occurrence and that he
had also not found semen drop in the place of occurrence. He denied
the suggestion that no such occurrence, as alleged, ever took place in

the place of occurrence.

20. The evidence reproduced above, particularly, of the victim,
reveals that she was lured by the accused to accompany him. The
accused first induced the victim for sexual intercourse and then took
her away to a different place. The age of the victim is not in dispute.
The medical opinion also suggests that the victim has been exposed to
sexual intercourse. The cross-examination of the prosecution witnesses
has not been able to impeach the credibility of the witnesses on the
point that the victim was taken away by the accused, that she was
detained in Tamarhat by local boys and that she was brought from

Tamarhat. The evidence is also cogent on the point that victim was
EcourtIS copy
subjected to sexual intercourse by the accused. These evidence, as
adduced by the prosecution, are sufficient to shift the onus on the
accused to prove the contrary in view of the statutory reverse onus, as

provided in view of the provisions of Section 29 of the POCSO Act.

21. In this regard, the learned defence Counsel argued that medical
opinion as well as the cross-examination of the victim reveals that she
also had sexual relationship with the one Gobinda and hence the sexual
intercourse, if any, was done by Gobinda and not the present accused.
Learned defence Counsel also argued with reference to the conduct of
the victim that she had sufficient opportunity to raise alarm while she
was being taken away by the accused, to various places, but she did
not raise any alarm suggesting that she wanted to go with the accused

on her own volition.

22. While appreciating the defence arguments, what needs to be
seen is not whether the victim was sexually abused by any other
person, not facing trial in the instant case, but what needs to be seen is
whether she has alleged sexual abuse at the hands of the accused. The
evidence on record leaves no room for doubt that the victim is found
believeable when she states that accused committed sexual
intercourse with her. Hence, the fact that someone else too, committed
sexual intercourse with her does not belie the evidence of the victim

vis-a-vis the accused.

23. Coming now to the conduct of the victim in not raising alarm, it
does not assist the defence in asbolving the accused from penal liability
for the reason that victim is admittedly a minor that too of a very

tender age of 13 years. Even if it is assumed that she consented to
EcourtIS copy
sexual intercourse and also her taking away by the accused, it would
not be a material aspect to determine the guilt or otherwise of the
accused. The law attaches more responsibility on the accused, who has
sufficient maturity of understanding in view of his age, to avoid

inducing a minor girl and to take undue advantage of her tender age.

24. It will be, therefore, seen that onus placed on the accused, in
view of the provisions of Section 29 of the POCSO Act, stands not
discharged. The inescapable conclusion is that the prosecution has

been able to establish the following facts;

(i) That the accused took away the victim, a minor girl of 13

years, to the vacant residence of one Goriya

(ii) That the accused committed sexual intercourse with the

victim at the residence of Goriya

(iii) That the accused further took away the victim to Tamarhat

25. The aforesaid facts establish the charge under Section 363 IPC

and also under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

26. The points for determination are answered in affirmative.

27. In view of the nature of offence estbalished, this is not a fit case
to release the accused on probation. Hence, the benefit of probation is

not extended to accused.

28. | have heard the accused on the point of sentence. He submits
that he is father to three children and all of them are minors. He being

the only bread earner for the family, earns his livelihood by petty labour
10
EcourtIS copy

works. His detention in imprisonment will throw his entire family to

vagrancy and hence he prays for mercy and leniency.

29. | have considered the submissions of the accused. The
aggravating factor appearing against the accused is that he lured a
minor girl of 13 years of age and exposed her to sexual intercourse. The
accsued took advantage of the tender age of the victim and exploited

her.

30. The mitigating circumstances appearing in favour of the accused
is that he is a father to three minor children and hence his detention in
imprisonment, shall in all probability, cause severe inconvenience to his
family who should not be made to suffer much for the acts of the

accused.

31. The punishment for the offence under Section 363 IPC extends
to 7 years in imprisonment whereas the punishment for the offence
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act extends to imprisonment for life with

the minimum being 7 years.

32. Balancing the aggravting factors with the mitigating factors, |
believe a sentence of 2 years of rigorous imprisonment for the offence
under Section 363 IPC and a sentence of 7 years of rigorous
imprisonment for offence under Section 4 of the POCSO Act will be a
proper sentence in the facts of this case. Both the sentences shall run

concurrently.

Contd....
11
EcourtIS copy

ORDER

Accused Ananda Barman is convicted for the offences under
Section 363 IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

For his conviction under Section 363 IPC, the accused is
sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for a period of 2 (Two) years
with fine of Rs 1,000 and in default of payment of fine to undergo
further imprisonment for 2 months.

For his conviction under Section Section 4 of the POCSO Act, the
accused is sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for a period of 7
(Seven) years with fine of Rs 1,000 and in default of payment of
fine to undergo further imprisonment for 2 months.

The sentences shall run concurrently.

A recommendation is also made to the District Legal Services
Authority, Kokrajhar, for payment of adequate compensation to
the victim under Section 357A CrPC.

A free copy of the judgment be also given to the convict.

A copy of the judgment be also furnished to Sri Madhab
Upadhyay, Legal Aid Counsel. He will be entitled to his

remuneration.
A copy of this judgment be sent to District Magistrate, Kokrajhar

Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this 8 day
of March, 2019

Dictated by: -

Addl. Special Judge Addl. Special Judge

Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
12

EcourtIS copy
Appendix
1. Prosecution Exhibits :-
Exhibit-1 Statement of Victim
Exhibit-2 Medical report
Exhibit-3 Charge sheet
Exhibit-4 Ejahar
2. Defence Exhibit Nil
3. Prosecution Witness
P.W.1 xxx, Mother of victim
P.W.2 Xxx, Victim
P.W.3 xxx, father of the victim
P.W.4 Sri Basanta Barman
P.W.5 Sri Bidyut Roy
P.W6 Dr. Sushma Brahma
P.W.7 Sri Rajio Lochan Das

4.Defence Witness Nil

5. Court witness Nil

Addl. Special Judge(FTC),
Kokrajhar
