Page 1 of 12

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the, Prosecution

Gounsel for Accused

68 OF 2018

(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 2942/18)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Santi Dhar,
Son of late Jogendra Dhar,
Resident of Thelamara Rohinibil,
Police Station.— Thelamara
Dist:-Sonitpur, Assam
01/10/2018

14/11/2018

14/11/2018

14/11/2018

14/11/2018
Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah,

Special Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. P. Biswas, Advocate.
Page 2 of 12

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Santi Dhar is put for trial for allegation
of charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The factual matrix of the case, according to the FIR, is that at
about 9.30 a.m. of 23-07-2018, while the minor daughter of the
informant, who is aged about 7 years, went to the shop of the accused
to buy some materials, accused raped his daughter. On being. enquired
the accused, the accused confessed his guilt before the local public.
Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar was filed \by.Sri Gagan
Chandra Das, before the O/C of Thelamara Police Station on 25-07-
2018.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, the.Officer-In-Charge of Thelamara
Police Station registered a case being Thelamara P.S. Case No. 136/18
u/s 6 of the POCSO Act. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C
Thelamara Police Station sent up*the accused for trial by filing charge
sheet u/s 6 of the POCSO Act. against the accused Sri Santi Dhar.

4. On being..appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, framed. charge under section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012
against the. accused Sri Santi Dhar and particulars of the charge was
read.over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not guilty and

claims:to be tried.

5 To substantiate the case, prosecution examined three numbers
of witnesses i.e. the complainant/father, mother of the victim and the
victim. After completion of prosecution evidence, the learned counsel for
the accused submitted to close the evidence on the ground that none of
the witnesses even the victim and the complainant failed to reveal any
ingredients of alleged section of law against the accused. Learned Public

Prosecutor also conceded.

6. On scrutiny of the record, particularly the statements of the

witnesses, it appears that the victim and her parents no way supported

 
Page 3 of 12

the prosecution case against the accused as alleged. So, considering the
aforesaid evidence even if examined the other witnesses the case of the
prosecution could not develop. Considering these aspects, prosecution
evidence is closed. Speedy trial is the fundamental right of the accused
person. Accused is examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made
against the accused and evidence appears against the accused are put
before him for explanation where he denied the allegations and declined

to adduce defence evidence.
7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on or about 9.30 a.m.cof 23-07-2018, at
Ruhinibil under Thelamara Police Station, the accused
committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim (7
years of age) and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 6 of the Protection.of Child from Sexual
Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicialdecision, let me appreciate the evidence

on record.

9. PW 1 Sri,Gagan.Das, the complainant of this case and father of
the victimstated that at the relevant time his victim daughter was about
sevensyears old. The occurrence took place on 23-7-18 at about 9:30
asm, The ‘accused has a grocery shop situated at their village. At the
relevant time his daughter/victim went to the shop of the accused to
bring something. Front side of door of the accused was closed but the
backside door was open. So his daughter went to purchase material
from the back side door. After purchasing “hajmula” from the shop of
the accused she attempted to return home. During that time some of
the mustard oil suddenly fell upon the clothes of his daughter. Then she
raised alarm. Hearing alarm, her mother came and called her.
Thereafter his victim daughter reported the incident to them. During
that time public gathered there. They suspected the accused that he
may attempt to commit rape on his daughter. Then he lodged the FIR.

The FIR was written by scribe namely Enamul. Ext.1 is the FIR wherein

 
Page 4 of 12

Ext.1(1) is his signature. After instituting the case statement of his
victim daughter was recorded by police and also sent to hospital for
medical examination. His victim daughter was also sent to court for

recording her statement U/s.164 of Cr.P.C.

In cross-examination, he admitted that the FIR was lodged after
2/3 days of the occurrence. Initially they did not like to file FIR but at
the instigation of some students union they lodged the FIR. His
daughter did not report him any of the incident. His victim, daughter
made statement before Ld. Magistrate as tutored by local‘public and her
mother. He does not have any allegation against/the accused because
he knows the accused for last fifteen years and therefore he does not

have any objection if the accused is enlarged on acquittal.

10. PW 2 Smt. Swapna Das, mother of ‘the victim girl, stated that
she knows the accused who isthe owner of a shop. The occurrence
took place on 23-07-18 at_about 9:30 a.m. In the morning time her
victim daughter was sent to shop for purchasing some materials. The
shop is situated at a little bit distance from their house. When her
daughter went.tosthe.shop of the accused, the front side door of shop
of the accused was closed so she went to purchase material from the
back side.door*of the shop. Her daughter hurriedly returned by taking
some» “hajmula. The accused accidentally fell down some mustard oil
upon her clothes. So her daughter started crying and returned home by
running. On hearing hulla local people gathered there. They suspected
the accused involving in attempt to commit bad act. She knows that the
accused never did any misdeed to her daughter. At the instigation of
local public, her husband bound to file FIR. Thereafter statement of her
daughter was recorded by police and also her statement was recorded
through Ld. Magistrate. Her statement was also recorded by Ld.
Magistrate U/s.164 of Cr.P.C. Ext.2 is her statement U/s.164 of Cr.P.C.

wherein Ext.2(1) and Ext.2(2) are her signatures.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she never suspected the

accused any of the alleged occurrence. At the instigation of local public

 
Page 5 of 12

her husband bound to file the FIR. The local public instigated them to
make such statement before Ld. Magistrate and accordingly she made
statement U/s.164 of Cr.P.C. She does not have any grievance against
the accused. She does not have any objection if the accused is enlarged

on acquittal.

11. PW 3, the victim, who was examined after making enquiry to
test her intelligence and ability to give rational answers, has stated that
she knows the accused. He is their neighbour. He has a grocery.shop.
The incident took place about 2/3 months ago. At the relevant time she
went to the shop of the accused to purchase some “hajmula”. When she
reached the shop she found the front door of.the.shop was closed. So
she went to the shop of the accused through back side. During that time
the accused was there at his shop. Then she purchased three “hajmula”
at the consideration of Rs.3/-. During that\time her mother called her.
During that time the accused was measuring mustard oil and suddenly
some of the mustard oil fell on her*clothes. Then out of fear she ran to
her house by crying and reported the matter to her mother and father.
On hearing hulla people gathered there. Thereafter her father filed this
case. As reported by\her mother her father filed this case. After
institution’ of, the “case, police recorded her statement and then
examined her‘through doctor. She has also taken to court for recording
her “statement U/s.164 of Cr.P.C. Ext.3 is her statement U/s.164 of
Cr.P.C. wherein Ext.3(1), 3(2), 3(3) are her signatures .

In cross-examination, she admitted that she visited the shop of
the accused quite off and on. The accused never told her any slang
language. When she went to the shop of the accused he was measuring
mustard oil and suddenly some of the mustard oil fell into her frock. Out
of fear she was crying and ran towards house. The accused never made
any misdeed to her. Local people and some of the student tutored her
what to say before Ld. Magistrate. They have also tutored and asked
her mother what to say before Ld. Magistrate. Accordingly they made

such statements as tutored by the said local public. In fact the accused

 
Page 6 of 12

never open her pant. Today what she has stated before this court is
true statement. The accused never misdeed her. He even not took her

into his lap. She made statement at her free will without any fear.

12. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence

plea is total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

13. Before entering into the record, I am inclined to see what is the
ingredients of section 5 of the POCSO Act to convict the accused u/s 6
of the POCSO Act.

14. To prove the charge under section 6 of the Protection of Child

from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, prosecution.mustyprove that —

Section 5-_sexual assault-

" 5, Aggravated penetrative’sexual assault.-(a) Whoever,
being a police officer, commits penetrative sexual assault on a child-

(i) within the limits of the police station or premises at which he
is appointed; or

(ii) in the premises of any station house, whether or not
situated in the police station, towhich he is appointed; or

(iii) in the course of his duties or otherwise; or

(iv) where ‘he is Known as, or identified as, a police officer; or

(b) whoever being a member of the armed forces or security
forces

commits penetrative sexual assault on a child-

(i),within the limits of the area to which the person is
deployed; or (ii) in any areas under the command of the forces or
armed forces; or (iii) in the course of his duties or otherwise; or

(iv) where the said person is known or identified as a member
of the

security or armed forces; or

(c) whoever being a public servant commits penetrative sexual
assault on a chil d; or

(d) whoever being on the management or on the staff of a jail,
remand home, protection home, observation home, or other place of
custody or care and protection established by or under any law for the
time being in force, commits penetrative sexual assault on a child, being
inmate of such jail, remand home, protection home, observation home,
or other place of custody or care and protection; or

(e) whoever being on the management or staff of a hospital,
whether Government or private. commits penetrative sexual assault on
a child in that hospital; or

(f) whoever being on the management or staff of an
educational institution or religious institution, commits penetrative
sexual assault on a child in that institution; or

 
Page 7 of 12

(g) whoever commits gang penetrative sexual assault on a
child.

Explanation.-When a child is subjected to sexual assault by one
or more persons of a group in furtherance of their common intention,
each of such persons shall be deemed to have committed gang
penetrative sexual assault within the meaning of this clause and each of
such person shall be liable for that act in the same manner as if it were
done by him alone; or

(h) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child
using deadly weapons, fire, heated substance or corrosive substance;
or

(i) whoever commits penetrative sexual assaults.causing
grievous hurt or causing bodily harm and injury or injury to the sexual
organs of the child; or

(j) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault»onsa child,
which-

(i) physically incapacitates the child ‘orscauses the child to
become mentally ill as defined under clause (%) of section 2 of the
Mental Health Act, 1987 (14 of 1987) or causes impairment of any kind
so as to render the child unable to perform regular tasks, temporarily or
permanently; or

(ii) in the case of female child, makes the child pregnant
as a consequence of sexual assault;

(iii) inflicts the child with Human Immunodeficiency Virus
or anyother life threatening disease or infection which may either
temporarily or permanently. impair.the child by rendering him physically
incapacitated, or mentally. ill to perform regular tasks; or

(k) whoever, taking, advantage of a child's mental or physical
disability, commits penetrative sexual assault on the child; or

(1) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on the child
more than once or repeatedly; or

(m) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child
below.twelve years; or

(n) whoever being a relative of the child through blood or
adoption or marriage or guardianship or in foster care or having a
domestic relationship with a parent of the child or who is living in the
same_or shared household with the child, commits penetrative sexual
assault on such child; or

(0) whoever being, in the ownership, or management, or staff,
of any institution providing services to the child, commits penetrative
sexual assault on the child; or

(p) whoever being in a position of trust or authority of a child
commits penetrative sexual assault on the child in an institution or
home of the child or anywhere else; or

) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child
knowing the child is pregnant; or

(r) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child and
attempts to murder the child; or

(s) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child in
the course of communal or sectarian violence; or

(t) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child and
who has -teen previously convicted of having committed any offence

 
Page 8 of 12

under this Act or any sexual offence punishable under any other law for
the time being in force; or

(u) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child and
makes the child to strip or parade naked in public, is said to commit
aggravated penetrative sexual assault.

This clause defines the offence of aggravated penetrative
sexual assault. It provides that a person is said to commit aggravated
penetrative sexual assault, if he-

(a) being a police officer, commits penetrative sexual.assault on
a child -(i) within the limits of the police station or premises at which he
is appointed; or (ii) in the premises of any station house;.whether.or not
situated in the police station, to which he is appointed} ors(ili) in the
course of his duties or otherwise; or (iv) where he is. Known as, or
identified as, a police officer; or

(b) being a member of the armed, forces or security forces
commits penetrative sexual assault on aschild -(i) within the limits of the
area to which the person is deployed; or,(li) in any areas under the
command of the forces or armed forces; or (iii) in the course of his
duties or otherwise; or (iv) where the,said person is known or identified
as a member of the security or armed forces; or

(c) being a public.servant commits penetrative sexual assault
on a child; or

(d) being.on the management or on the staff of a jail, remand
home, protection home, observation home, or other place of custody or
care and protection established by or under any law for the time being
in force, commits penetrative sexual assault on a child, being inmate of
such jail, remand home, protection home, observation home, or other
place.of custody or care and protection; or

(e) being on the management or staff of a hospital, whether
Government or private, commits penetrative sexual assault on a child in
that hospital; or

(f) being on the management or staff of an educational
institution, commits penetrative sexual assault on a child in that
institution; or

(g) commits gang penetrative sexual assault; or

(h) commits penetrative sexual assault on a child using deadly
weapons, fire, heated substance or corrosive substance; or

 
Page 9 of 12

(i) commits penetrative sexual assault causing grievous hurt or
causing injury t6 the sexual organs of the child; or

(j) commits penetrative sexual assault upon a child which - (i)
physically incapacitates the child or causes the child to become mentally
ill or to become mentally unfit to perform regular tasks, temporarily or
permanently; or (ii) in the case of female child, makes the child
pregnant as a consequence of sexual assault; (iii) inflicts the chil-d with
Human Immunodeficiency Virus or any other life threatening disease or
infection which may either temporarily or permanently impair the child
by rendering him physically incapacitated, mentally ill or mentally. unfit
to perform regular tasks; or

(k) commits penetrative sexual assault on\a child taking
advantage of his mental or

physical disability; or

(1) commits penetrative sexual ‘assault on the child more than
once or repeatedly; or

(m) commits penetrative sexual’ assault on a child below twelve
years; or

(n) being arfrelative of the"child through blood or adoption or
marriage or guardianship or in foster care, or having a domestic
relationship with a parent of the child, or who is living in the same or
shared household ‘with the child, commits penetrative sexual assault on
such child; or

(0) being, in the ownership, or management, or staff, of any
institution providing services to the child, commits penetrative sexual
assault on the child; or

(p) being in a position of trust or authority of a child commits
penetrative sexual assault on the child in an institution or home of the
child or anywhere else; or

(q) commits penetrative sexual assault on a child knowing the
child is pregnant; or

(r) commits penetrative sexual assault on a child and attempts
to murder the child; or (s) commits penetrative sexual assault
on a child in the course of communal or sectarian violence; or

(t) commits penetrative sexual assault on a child and who has
been previously convicted of having committed any offence under this

 
Page 10 of 12

Act or any sexual offence punishable under any other law for the time
being in force. (Notes on Clauses).

15. In this type of case, the statement of the victim is much more
relevant including the other witnesses. In the instant case, it appears
that PW 2 Smti Swapna Das who is the mother of the victim who
deposed that at the relevant time her daughter went to the shop of the
accused, as the front side door of the shop of the accused was closed so
she went to purchase material from the back side door: of\the sshop.
During that time the accused was busy in measuring mustard oil but
suddenly some mustard oil fell into her daughter’s clothes and out of
fear she came running and crying. On hearing “hulla local people
gathered there. They suspected the accused. involving in attempt to
commit bad act. Similarly, the father ‘of the victim PW 1 stated that
initially they did not like to fileyFIR but\at the instigation of some
Students Union, they lodged the ejahar»His daughter did not report any
of the incident to him. Her daughter*made statement before the learned
Magistrate as tutored by local\public and her mother. He does not have
any allegation against*the, accused because he knows that the accused
for last fifteen years, and therefore, he does not have any objection if

the accused is enlarged on acquittal.

Similarly, victim PW 3 who was examined after making enquiry
to,test her intelligence and ability to give rational answers stated similar
Story as stated by her mother and complainant. She stated that at the
relevant time she went to the shop of the accused to purchase some
hajmula. When she reached the shop she found the shop of the front
door was closed so she went to the shop of the accused through back
side. During that time the accused was there at his shop. Then she
purchased three “hajmula” at the consideration of Rs. 3/-. During that
time her mother called her. During that time accused was measuring
mustard oil fell on her clothes. Then out of fear she ran to her house by
crying and reported the matter to her mother and father. On hearing

hulla people gathered there. As reported by her, her father filed the

 
Page 11 of 12

case. After institution of the case, police recorded her statement and
then examined her through the doctor. In cross-examination, she
admitted that she visited the shop of the accused quite off and on. The
accused never told her any slang language. When she went to the shop
of the accused he was measuring mustard oil and suddenly some of the
mustard oil fell into her frock. Out of fear she was crying and ran
towards house. The accused never made any misdeed to her. Local
people and some of the student tutored her what to say before Ld.
Magistrate. They have also tutored and asked her mother what to say
before Ld. Magistrate. Accordingly they made such statements as
tutored by the said local public. In fact the accused never open her

pant.

16. Therefore, in view of the ‘aforesaid evidence of victim,
complainant/father and mother of the accused, I have no hesitation to
hold that the prosecution has failed toxprove any of the ingredients of
alleged charge against the accusedUnder such circumstances, I acquit
him and set him at liberty.forthwith.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 14” day
of November, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
1.

Z

3.

Page 12 of 12

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 : Sri Gagan Chandra Das, complainant.
Prosecution Witness No.2 - Smti Swapna Das
Prosecution Witness No.3 - Victim Miss “X”.
EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 1 : Ejahar

Exhibit 1(1) : Signature of the complainant Gagan Ch. Das.
Ext. 2 : 164 Cr.P.C. statement*of Smti Swapna Das,
Ext. 2(1) & 2(2): Signatures Smti, Swapna,Das,

Ext. 3 : 164 Cr.P:C. statement of the victim girl.
Ext. 3(1) to 3(3): Signatures of victim girl.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
