IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON ::: ASSAM.

Special (POCSO) Case No.-86/2017
U/S-342 of IPC, r/w Section-6 of the POCSO Act.

State
- Versus -

Rafiqul Islam
: Accused person.

Present :
Shri P.P. Bairagi, AJS
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Mr. M.J. Neog, Ld. Special Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person : Mr. PK. Bora, Ld. Senior Advocate.
Charge framed on : 06/07/2018.
Evidence recorded on : 20/02/2019, 18/12/2019.
Date of Argument : 24/02/2020.
Date of Judgment : 29/02/2020.

Contd...
UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution in brief is that the informant who
is the father of the victim filed First Information Report before the
In-Charge of Haiborgaon Town Out Post under Nagaon Sadar Police
Station on 12808/2017 stating inter alia that accused Rafiqul Islam and
accused Ajufa Khatun sometimes forcefully took her daughter for
domestic help in their residence. The victim was age about 13(thirteen)
years and 6(six) months. Juvenile 'Y' (S/O- Rafiqul Islam who is juvenile
in conflict with law) committed rape upon his daughter and threatened
her with dire consequences. After 2(two) days of the said incident,
juvenile 'Y' again committed rape upon the victim. Accused Rafiqul
Islam and his wife told that they would give huge amount of money to
the victim for not informing anyone about the incident. Juvenile 'Y'
again committed rape on his daughter. After 7(seven) days of that
incident, accused Md. Rafiqul Islam committed rape upon the daughter
of the informant and for that reason she became 5(five) months
pregnant. Village Mel was held; but nothing was happened.

2. On receipt of the said First Information Report, vide
Haiborgaon T.O.P. GDE No.-664, dated-28/07/2017 was made and
forwarded it to the Officer-in-Charge of Nagaon Sadar Police Station for
registering a case under proper section of law. Accordingly, Nagaon
Sadar Police Station Case No.-2033/2017 was registered u/s-342/506 of
IPC, r/w Section-4 of the POCSO Act. After investigation, Charge Sheet
was filed against accused Md. Rafiqul Islam under the aforesaid
sections of law, who is facing trial before this court. On the other hand,
'Y' (the son of Rafiqul Islam) is shown as juvenile in conflict with law
and the wife of Rafiqul Islam namely- Ajufa Khatun not sent up for trial.

Contd...
3. On appearance of accused Rafiqul Islam before the court of
learned Special Judge, Nagaon / Sessions Judge, Nagaon, copy was
furnished to him and he was charged u/s-342 of IPC, r/w Section-6 of
the POCSO Act. The accused person pleaded not guilty when the
charges were read over and explained to him.

4. During the trial, the prosecution has examined altogether
3(three) witnesses including the informant as well as the victim of the
case and closed the evidence.

5. | have heard learned counsels for both the sides and perused
the record.
6. Now the points for determination are as follows :-

1. Whether in the year 2017 in the month of February the
accused wrongfully confined the victim 'X' in his house as
alleged?

2. Whether in the same time the accused committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim 'X' as
alleged?

7. DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF
Now let me see the evidence on record.

 

8. PW-1 who is the father of the victim and informant of the
case has deposed that he filed this case against accused Rafiqul Islam
and his on 'Y'(juvenile in conflict with law). The incident was occurred

Contd...
4

1 % years ago. The victim and 'Y' (juvenile) studied together. There
was a marpit with each other. As such, with the help of Advocate's
Clerk, he filed the First Information Report. This witness was declared
as hostile. He was cross-examined also by both sides.

9. PW-2 is the victim 'X' who deposed that she knew accused
Rafiqul Islam and his son (juvenile 'Y'). They are neighbours. On the
day of incident while she was nearby the house of accused Rafiqul
Islam, then one Joynal came and committed bad things with her. Her
father lodged the case and she was taken to hospital and her
statement was recorded u/s-164 Cr.P.C. Ext.-2 is the statement and
Ext.-2(1) and Ext.-2(2) are her signatures. She was 3(three) months
pregnant; but her pregnancy was terminated.

During her cross-examination, she has deposed that accused
Rafiqul Islam and his son 'Y' (juvenile) had not committed any bad
things with her.

10. PW-3 is the mother of the victim who has deposed that as
the mensuration of her daughter was stopped, as such she asked her
daughter about the reason. Then, her daughter (victim) intimated that
accused Joynal committed bad things with her daughter and she was
warned by Joinal not to disclose anyone, else Joynal would kill her.
Joynal worked in the house of accused Rafiqul Islam. As Rafiqul Islam
failed to produce Joinal and helped Joynal to flee away, as such her
husband filed the case against Rafiqul Islam and his son 'y' (juvenile).

During her cross-examination, she denied the suggestion
that Rafiqul Islam did not help Joynal to flee away.

Contd...
11. Earlier this case was pending before another court of the
Special Judge, Nagaon (Sessions Judge, Nagaon) who was pleased to
close the evidence of the remaining witnesses on the basis of the
prayer made by the learned Special Prosecutor. Thus, the evidence of
the prosecution was closed and said court was also vide its order
dated-08/01/2020 dispensed with the examination of the accused u/s-
313 Cr.P.C. having considered the fact that there is no incriminating

material to examine the accused.

12. From the evidence of PW-1, it is noticed that he became
hostile and he has not implicated the accused person with the alleged
offence. On the other hand, the Investigating Officer was not examined
by the prosecution to know any contradiction of evidence of this
witness which was done by the way of cross-examination by both the
sides. On the other hand, the victim has clearly deposed that accused
Rafiqul Islam was not involved with any bad activity with her. She has
nowhere deposed that the accused had wrongfully confined her and
committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault with her. The victim
has deposed that one Joynal was involved with sexual assault with her;
but interestingly enough this Joynal is not the accused in this case.
From the evidence of PW-3, it is noticed that she gave another story of
this case by deposing that as accused Rafiqul Islam failed to bring
Joynal who worked under him before the victim's family. As such, the
case was filed against Rafiqul Islam and his son 'Y'. So, these much of
evidence can not be accepted to convict a person. There are
insufficient evidence on record to convict accused Rafiqul Islam with
the alleged offence. No witness has deposed that the accused has
committed wrongful confinement and aggravated penetrative assault
upon the victim. Therefore, the prosecution has failed to prove its case
and by way of cross-examination the accused has demolished the
evidence of the prosecution and presumption against him stands

Contd...
6

rebutted. Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

13. Bail bond of the accused person will be automatically
cancelled after expiry of 6(six) months if no appeal is preferred.

14. This Special (POCSO) Case is disposed of accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of
this court on this 29% day of February,
2020 at Nagaon.

Dictated & corrected by me.
Special Judge, Nagaon.
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
APPENDIX :-

Oral evidence :-

PW-1 Father of the victim (name withheld).
PW-2 Victim 'X' (name withheld).

PW-3 Mother of the victim (name withheld).

Documentary evidence :-

Ext.-1 Ejahar.

Ext.-2 Statement of the victim recorded by Magistrate u/s-164
Cr.P.C.

Defence side did not adduce any evidence.

Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
