IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE iitiiiitttinsiniiitiins: DBHUBRI

Present :-Shri J. Borah, AJS
Special Judge,Dhubri.

SPECIAL CASE NO.87 OF 2018
U/s.447 I.P.C.
R/W Sec.4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence
State of Assam
Vs
Samiul Alom
pare 2 Accused Person.

Date of Framing Charge :- 13-09-2018
Date of Recording Evidence :-24-09-2018
Date of Argument :- 29-09-2018
Date of Judgment :- 29-09-2018

Advocates Appeared :
For the State of Assam :- Shri S.C. Ray

Learned Addl.P.P.

For the Defence :- Shri R.K. Jain

Learned Advocate.

}jJ UD GM ENT

1. Since this case is under section 4 of Protection of Children
from Sexual Offence, hereinafter referred to POCSO, so the name
of the victim has not been mentioned and she is hereinafter
referred to 'X'

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Abdul Aziz Seikh, the
informant lodged an ejahar with the Dhubri Police Station on
23.3.018 informing that 'X' is his granddaughter, aged about 15
years. She is a school going child. On 19.3.018 at about 7-00 P.M
'X' went outside the house to attend natural call. The accused
Samiul Alom, all of a sudden, appeared there, caught hold of 'X'
and committed rape on her.

Contd.Page-2.
So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against
the accused Samiul Alom.

3. The Dhubri Police Station received the ejahar and registered
vide Dhubri P.S. Case No.332/018 U/s.447/341 |I.P.C R/W Sec.4 of
POCSO Act. The Dhubri Police Station also investigated the case
and having found prima face U/s.447 |.P.C R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act
against the accused Samiul Alom laid the chargesheet before the
court for trial.

4. The accused Samiul Alom appeared in the court of Sessions
Judge, Dhubri and he was furnished copy. The case was, later, on,
transferred to this court for trial.

5. The Samiul Alom, hereinafter called the accused, appeared
in this case. Charge was framed U/s.447 I.P.C R/W Sec.4 of POCSO
Act. The charge was read over and exaplined to the accused to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

6. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against
the accused examined three witnesses, namely --

1. Abdul Aziz PW-1

2. Anjuma Bibi PW-2

3. X/victim PW-3.

7. Since there found no incriminating evidence against the
accused in the evidence adduced by the prosecution witnesses
against the accused, so he is not examined U/s.313 Cr.P.c.

8. Heard argument for both sides.

9. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :

(i) Whether the accused on 19.3.018 at about 7-00 in the
evening at village Silghagri Part-Il under Dhubri Police Station
committed criminal trespass by entering into the land of the
informant-Abdul Aziz Seikh with an intent to commit an offence or
to intimidate or insult or annoy informant and others and thereby
committed offence U/s.447 I.P.C.

Contd.Page-3.
(ii) Whether the accused on 19.3.018 at about 7-00 in the
evening at village Silghagri Part-ll under Dhubri Police Station
committed penetrative sexual assault on the minor child X and
thereby committed offence U/s.4 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :

10. In this prosecution case, PW-1 Abdul Aziz is the informant,
PW-2 Anjuma Bibi is the mother of the alleged victim and PW-3 'X'
is the alleged victim.

11. PW-1 Abdul Aziz has stated in his evidence that the
occurrence took place five months ago. 'X' is his granddaughter,
she is about 16/17 years old. On the day of occurrence in the
evening, the accused came to their house and had talk with his
granddaughter. At such, the villager caught the accused. The
villagers asked him to lodge case against the accused and
accordingly he lodged the ejahar, Ext-1 & Ext-1(1) is his signature.

In his cross, PW-1 has stated that both his granddaughter
and the accused read in the same class and both of them are
friend. The accused did not commit rape on his granddaughter. He
has no allegation against the accused.

12. PW-2 Anjuma Bibi has stated in her evidence that five
months ago, the accused came to their house to meet 'X'. Both the
accused and 'X' read in the same class and they are friend. The
villagers then asked them to lodge criminal case against him. The
accused did not commit rape on 'X'.

In her cross, PW-2 has stated that the accused did not commit
rape on her daughter.

Contd.Page-4.
13. PW-3 'X' has stated in her evidence that informant is her
father and the accused is her class mate. On the day of
occurrence, the accused came to their house and he had talk with
her. The accused is her friend, so they were talking freely in their
house. The villagers suspected them and they asked her
grandfather to lodge criminal case against the accused. She gave
her statement before the Magistrate, Ext-2 is her statement and
Ext-2(1) is her signature.

In her cross, PW-3 has stated that the accused neither
committed rape on her nor he did any wrong against her. She has
no objection if the accused gets acquittal. She gave her statement
Ext-2 as per instruction of villagers.

14. Thus, careful scrutiny of evidence of PW-1,2 and PW-3, it
appears that PW-1 being the informant has clearly stated that he
lodged Ext-1, the ejahar as per suggestion of the villagers, but the
accused did not do anything to her granddaughter. Same is the
evidence of PW-2, the mother of the alleged victim. PW-2 has
reiterated in her evidence that the accused neither committed
rape on her daughter nor did anything wrong against her daughter.
PW-3 who is the alleged victim has made it clear that the accused
is her class mate and they were talking at the time of occurrence.
But the villagers misunderstood the same and they asked her
family members to lodge case against the accused. It is reiterated
by PW-3 that the accused did not commit rape on her.

So, there is no inculpatory evidence adduced by PW-1,2 and
PW-3 against the accused. All the witnesses have sternly denied in
their respective evidence to commit rape on 'X'.
15. Sec.4 of POCSO Act reads as follows:

Contd.Page-5.
“Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
Shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to
imprisonment for life, and shall be liable to fine.”

The provision is itself clear that there must be penetrative
sexual assault on the victim to attract Sec.4 of POCSO Act. In this
case instant, there is no such evidence adduced by the
prosecution witnesses that there was penetrative sexual assault on
'X' by the accused. So, no evidence is available to prove the
ingredients as required U/s.4 of POCSO Act.

16. The prosecution evidence, thereby, found not satisfactory
and sufficient to prove the offence as alleged against the accused.
The prosecution evidence is found dearth of merit.

17. The prosecution has failed to prove it's case U/s.447/ I.P.C
R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt.

Held, the accused is not guilty U/s.447 |I.B.C R/W Sec.4 of
POCSO Act.

Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty. The
bail bond stands cancelled and the bailor is discharged from all
liabilities.

The case is disposed of.
Given under my hand and seal of the court on this 29th day of
September, 2018.

Transcribed & Typed by
Addl. Sessions Judge
Stenographer Dhubri
Court of the Addl.Sessions Judge
Dhubri

Contd.Page-6.
APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses

PW-1 Abdul Aziz PW-1
PW-2 Anjuma Bibi PW-2
PW-3 X/the victim PW-3

Defence Witness -:- NIL.

Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext-1 Ejahar
Ext-2 Statement of the victim U/s.164 Cr.P.C

Addl. Sessions Judge
Dhubri
