IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE ......... CACHAR.
SEPECIAL( POCSO) CASE NO_.60f 2015
(U/S.6 of POCSO Act)
Present:-Shri K. Choudhury, LL.M.,
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM ........ccccseeseeccecessssteeeeeeeeeeeeeens Complainant.

-Versus-
Dulal Das
S/o Late Dinolal Das
RongpurSImultal PS Silchar

Cachar ASSAM .........:ccccccsceeeeeeeeeeeenaeanaeanass Accused
Charge framed On !- ooo... ceeeceececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 21/05/15
P.Ws. examined On:- ...ccseeseeveeeees 8/9/15
Statement of accused recorded under’ section 313 CrPC-
vedeeeeeeeeeeeenas 8/9/15
Argument Near ON: oo... ceeeecscsceccceccceceeeeceeeeeeeeeee seseeeeeeeeeeeeeees 8 8/9/15
Judgment pronounced and delivered On: ......ccceeeceeceetee ceeeeeees 8/9//15
Counsel Appeared
For the State : MrS.Dutta, Ld. PP
For the Accused : MrA.Das,Advocate
JUDGMENT
1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 30/9/13 at about 5 p.m.

four and half year of daughter of the complainant herein below stated
as victim was called and taken by the accused to his house and there
at she was raped by him. During search hearing call of her grand
mother, she responded from inside the house of the accused. The
grand mother of the victim then went to the house of the accused and
saw the incident. Hearing hue and cry people of the locality arrived
and rescued the victim. Accordingly ejhar was lodged by the mother of
the victim. The case was registered as Silchar PS case No.2178/13 u/s
342 IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act of 2012.During investigation the

victim was got medically examined.

a On completion of investigation I/O submitted charge sheet
against the accused person u/s 342 and Sec.6 of POCSO Act . On
appearance of the accused Id. SDJM furnished copies of all the
necessary police papers committed the offence.After hearing both sides
and perusal of the materials on the record framed formal charge against
the accused person U/S6 of POCSO Act. The charge was read over and
explained to which accused person pleaded not guilty. Hence, trial

began.

3. To prove the case prosecution side has examined as many
as three witnesses including victim, of them one is declared hostile.
However, the Id PP considering the nature of evidence vide petition no.
550/47 has informed this court that prosecution does not want to
examine any further witness. Considering the nature of evidence and

hearing both sides I closed the prosecution evidence.
4. Defence plea is that victim was not found in the house of the
accused. Accused is examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. He has merely pleaded

as innocent.

5. Now, point for decisionis that whether the accused
committed the offence of sexual assault as punishable u/s 6 of the
POCSO Act ?

6. To decide the above point I have heard Id. counsels of both
sides and perused the evidence on the record. My findings and

decisions are here in below :-

7. PW.1,is the complainant the mother of the victim, she has
deposed that about two years back at about 2/2-30 p.m. the alleged
incident took place . On that evening when she came home from work
came to know from her mother in law that the victim was found missing
and subsequently heard crying of the victim in the house of the
accused at about 4-30 p.m. He has further deposed that she saw
injury mark on the hand of the victim and on suspicion lodge the ejhar
against the accused. In the cross examination she has stated that she
is an illiterate person and does not know the contents of the FIR and
she did not see the occurrence and at the instance of the neighbourer

she lodged the case.

8. PW.2 the grand mother of the victim deposed that on the

date of alleged occurrence at about 4 p.m. the victim went out to play.
Sometimes after that the victim returned to her home on crying and
on query the victim she told that out of fear she cried. She denied
the statements recorded by the IO that victim was found missing and
during search on call of the complainant the victim gave reply from the
house of the accused and the victim was found being raped by the

accused and on their raising alarm the accused fled away.

9. PW.3 is the victim. She is found to be aged about six years.
Before recording her evidence she has been put certain questions to
test her ineligibility and she has found to have proper understanding
to be testified. Her evidence is recorded in camera in presence of her
mother but in absence of the accused who is identified by her seeing

his photograph taken on mobile camera.

10. During her examination she deposed that many years back in
one morning she sustained injuries on her hand by fall and at that
time her mother and grandmother were in the house. It is observed
that the victim kept herself mum on query about any other incident.
Subsequently after repeated query she replied that the accused took
her to his house and bolted the door. At that time her grand mother
called her and on hearing calls accused opened the door when she
came out. She has further stated that she had forgotten about any
other happenings if any. In the cross examination she has disclosed that
she calls the accused as Dada and some times visited his house which

is adjacent to their house .
11. During argument Id. Counsel for the defence submitted that
the visit of the victim is not an unnatural one as accused is her close
door neighbour. Further it is submitted that there is no implication
both on the part of the PW.1 and PW.2 and also the victim with regard
to the alleged charge. It is also submitted that complainant is an
illiterate and could not understand what is written in the FIR and
according to her she _ lodged the ejhar at the instance of the

neighbouring people and merely on suspicion.

12. The previous statement of PW.2 being not confirmed by
way of examination of the IO , the non implicating evidence of
the PW.2 can be relied upon. She further deposed that she did
not see the occurrence. As the alleged victim PW.3 deposed
that she has forgotten about anything more about the
happening her evidence that accused took her to his house and
bolted the door being not supported by any other witnesses
under the facts and circumstances of the case can not be
considered adversely against the accused. It is seen that the
medical report does not reveal any injury on the body of the
victim.

13. In view of the above it is held that any ingredients of the
prosecution allegation is not proved to prove the guilt any offence as
charged or whatsoever against the accused. Accused is thus acquitted
and set at liberty forth with.
Their bail bonds stand discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court under my
seal and signature on this 8'" day of September , 2015.

Dictated and corrected by

(K.Choudhury)
Sessions Judge,Cachar Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar
Transcribed by K.Bhattacharjee,
Stenographer
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR

 

SpIPOCSO_ Case No.6 of 2015
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

PW 1 —Smti Arati Choudhury

PW 2 — Smti.Radharani Choudhury,

PW 3 — Smti Dipika Choudhury,

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL.

(C) COURT WITNESSES: - NIL.

(D) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -Nil

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - Nil.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

(Shri K. Choudhuy),
Sessions Judge,Cachar
