Page |/41
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

IN THE SPECIAL COURT :: SONITPUR, TEZPUR:: ASSAM

PRESENT:- N. AKHTAR, AJS
Addl. Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur:: Tezpur.

Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018.
U/s. 8/12 of

Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

 

State of Assam
-Vs-

Sri Hemanta Nath

FOR THE PROSECUTION

Mr. S.K.Moitra, Special PP.

FOR THE DEFENCE a Mrs. D.Sinha, Advocate.
EVIDENCE RECORDED ON © :- 12.3.19, 5.4.19, 18.7.19, 16.8.19 and
11.09.2019.
ARGUMENTS HEARD ON “ 11.02.2020.
JUDGMENT DELIVERED ON_ :- 20.02.2020.
JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 23.08.2018, while the
daughter of the informant was alone at home, the accused above-
named entered their house and attempted to commit rape on the
daughter of the informant but she somehow rescued herself from the
clutch of the accused and raised alarm while the accused ran away.

Hence, the FIR was lodged.

Page 1 of 13
Page [2
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

2. Based on the said FIR, a case being Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 629/2018
U/s 8/12 of the POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and after completion
of investigation, the accused was charge-sheeted U/s. 8/12 of the
POCSO Act, 2012.

3. On appearance of the accused person, copies of relevant documents
were furnished to him in compliance of the provision of Sec.207 CrPC.
Having heard both the sides and considered the materials on record,
formal charges were framed against the accused u/s 8/12 of the POCSO
Act, 2012 and had been read over and explained to the accused person

to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During trial, the prosecution has examined as many as 9 (Nine)
witnesses including the medical officer and the investigating officer. The
accused was examined U/s 313 CrPC. Defence has also examined one
witness as DW1. At the end of the trial, the argument advanced by the

learned counsel for both the sides were heard at length.
POINT FOR DETERMINATION

> Whether the accused person on the alleged day and time of
occurrence, committed sexual assault on the victim girl XXX
namely, aged 14 years and thereby committed an offence
U/s 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012?

> Whether on the same day and time, the accused also
committed sexual harassment on victim girl namely XXX and
thereby committed an offence U/s 12 of the POCSO Act,
2012?

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASON FOR DECISION

5. I have heard the arguments advanced by learned counsel for both the
sides and also gone through the evidence on record including the law

relevant to the issue in hand.

Page 2 of 13
Page /3
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

6. The learned Special Public Prosecutor had strenuously argued that this
is a case where the accused perpetrated the crime with surgical
precision. It is submitted that the evidence of the victim girl alone goes
to show how the accused had given vent to his lustful desire after fully
discovering the fact that she was alone at home and it was the right
time for him to satisfy his evil design. It was further argued that the
evidence of the victim girl stands fully corroborated by the evidence of
other witnesses though no corroboration is in fact, required under the
law and the evidence of the victim alone can be acted upon. It is
further argued that the case projected by the defence that there was an
enmity between the parties and so, the accused is falsely implicated
only to wreak an old vengeance, does not hold good in the facts and
circumstances of this case. In support of his argument, the learned

Special PP has also relied on the following case laws:

> Shiv Charan Talukdar Vs State of Assam, 2017 (4) GLT
395 and,

> Aktar Mohammed Vs State of Assam, 2018 Legal Eagle
262.

7. Per contra, the learned defence counsel had argued that this is a case
where the accused has been falsely implicated on account of a long
standing enmity between the parties. It is also argued that the evidence
of the victim girl also suffers from serious discrepancies and so, cannot
be acted upon for basing conviction of the accused. her evidence is
highly tutored and does not inspire confidence of the court. It is also
argued that the defence has set up its case through DW1 and the
evidence of DW1 clearly goes to show that owing to the enmity alone,
this case has been falsely slapped against the accused. It is therefore,
argued that the case of the prosecution fails and the accused is entitled

to acquittal. There are some other aspects of the argument of the

Page 3 of 13
Page |4
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

learned defence counsel which would be dealt with at appropriate

places as the discussion progresses.

8. I have duly considered the arguments in the light of the evidence
adduced. The alleged victim girl namely XXX has been examined as

PW4. Her evidence goes as follows:

9. On 23.08.2018, at about 10-30 am, she was alone at home and was
reading. Then, the accused came to their house and asked for lime.
After taking lime, he went away. After a while, the accused again came.
At that time, the victim girl was entering her house with dried cloths.
The accused asked her whether she would take guava. She replied in
negative. The accused then asked her to bring a knife and some salt. As
the victim girl proceeded towards the kitchen to bring knife and salt,
the accused grabbed her from behind and made her lie in a supine
position in the bed and squeezed her breast. He also gagged her mouth
and told her not to disclose about the incident to her parents and else
threatened to kill her. She then threw the salt over his body and ran out
to the house of Lipika, her neighbor and reported about the incident. At
that time, the mother of the victim girl was in Anganbadi Centre and
her father was in his shop. Mrs. Pratibha Kalita, the mother of Lipika
had informed about the incident to her mother over phone. Her parents
came. Police sent her for medical examination and her statement was
also recorded U/s 164 CrPC which is Ext-2 and Ext-2 (1) to 2 (3) are her

signatures.

10.In her cross-examination, the alleged victim girl had deposed that the
house of the accused is near their house. There was a guava in the
hand of the accused when he came for the second time to the house of
PW4. Their house had three rooms. The house is adjacent to the road.
When the accused grabbed her from behind, she felt pain. The accused

gagged her mouth with one hand and pressed her breast with another

Page 4 of 13
Page [|5
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

hand. The accused had fled away as PW4 left her house. She had

denied some suggestions put to her by the defence.

11.What is important to point out here is that PW4, the alleged victim girl
had clearly deposed in her evidence that when she left her house after
getting rid of the clutch of the accused, she immediately rushed to the
house of one Lipika Kalita who has been examined as PW6. It appears
that PW6 is absolutely an independent witness being the neighbor of
PW4. PW3 (Smt. Pratibha Kalita) is the mother of PW6 and is also an
independent witness. Nothing could be brought on record to show that
PW3 and PW6 are interested witnesses. Rather they are witnesses who
were immediately informed about the incident by PW4. PW3 had
deposed that on the day of occurrence, PW4 came to their house crying
and told her that the accused came to her house asking for lime and
when she went inside to bring lime, the accused grabbed her from
behind and also grabbed her breast. PW3 then informed the matter to
the mother of PW4. PW6 had also deposed that PW4 came to their
house crying and informed her that while she was alone at home, the
accused came to their house and in the pretext of asking for lime,
entered their house and grabbed her and made her lie upon a bed and
wanted to rape her. It thus clearly appears from the aforesaid evidence
of PW3 and PW6 that their evidence has been fully supported by the
evidence of PW4. There is nothing in the evidence of PW3 and PW6

rendering their evidence unworthy of credence.

12.It is also to be noted that PW1 (Mother of the victim) had deposed that
she was informed about the incident by PW6 over phone and then, she
came to the house of PW6 along with her husband. When PW1 asked
her daughter, she narrated the incident to her. PW2 (Father of the
victim) had also deposed that at the time of the incident, he was in his
shop. His daughter was alone at home. His wife informed him over

phone that something happened to their daughter. PW2 immediately

Page 5 of 13
Page /6
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

came to the house of PW6 along with his wife and met their daughter

who told them about the incident.

13.PW5 (Sri Hiralal Sarmah) is the Gaonburah who had deposed that he
was informed by PW2 that on the day of the incident, while his
daughter was alone at home, the accused came to their house asking
for lime from their daughter and getting a chance, he grabbed her and
touched her breast. He also made her lie on bed and wanted to commit
rape on her. He had also stated that the victim girl then ran to the
house of PW6 and told them about the incident.

14.PW7 (Dr. Debajit Hazarika) is the medical officer who examined the
victim girl on 23.08.2018 at Dhekiajuli CHC. He found multiple scratch
marks over front side of neck of size 1 cm x Y2 cm x ¥2 cm. The injury
was simple and caused by blunt weapon. Ext-3 is the medical report
and Ext-3 (1) is his signature. In his cross-examination, he had stated
that in the report, he only mentioned the size of largest injury. There
are some smaller injuries. The injuries sustained by the victim may be
caused on attacking by a person or by falling on hard substance. The
age of the injury was one day that means it is within 8 hours or 24

hours.

15.PW8 (SI Cheniram Gogoi) is the investigating officer. He had deposed
that on 23.8.2018, an FIR was received and Dhekiajuli PS Case No.
629/2018 U/s 8/12 of the POCSO Act was registered and he was
entrusted with the investigation. He recorded the statement of the
victim girl and sent her for medical examination. He also visited the PO
and prepared a sketch map of the PO. The victim girl was also sent for
getting her statement recorded U/s 164 CrPC. The medical report of the
victim was also collected by him and then, he handed over the Case

diary.

16.PW9 (Sri Tosheswar Baruah) had deposed that on receiving the case

diary, he found that the previous investigating officer had already

Page 6 of 13
Page [7
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

completed the investigation and so, he submitted chargesheet against
the accused U/s 8/12 of the POCSO Act.

17.It is now important to point out here that in a case of sexual assault,
the evidence of victim alone is sufficient to bring home the guilt of the
accused. Even corroboration is only a rule of prudence and not of law.
In the case of State of Himachal Pradesh Vs Sanjay Kumar @
Sunny, reported in (2017) 2 SCC 51, the Hon’ble Apex Court had

observed as follows:

"By now It is well settled that the testimony of a victim in cases
of sexual offences Is vital and unless there are compelling
reasons which necessitate looking for corroboration of a
statement, the courts should find no difficulty to act on the
testimony of the victim of a sexual assault alone to convict the
accused, No doubt, her testimony has to inspire confidence.
Seeking corroboration to a statement before relying upon the
same as a rule, in such cases, would literally amount to adding
insult to injury. The deposition of the prosecutrix has, thus, to
be taken as a whole. Needless to reiterate that the victim of
rape Is not an accomplice and her evidence can be acted upon
without corroboration. She stands at a higher pedestal than an

injured witness does.”

18.In the present case, there is no discrepancy in the evidence of the
alleged victim girl which renders her evidence unreliable. There is no
contradiction in her evidence. Her evidence inspires total confidence.
Moreover, in the present case, the evidence of the victim receives
sufficient corroboration from the evidence of PW3 and PW6 who are
apparently independent witnesses. They immediately got to know about
the occurrence and deposed keeping complete tune with the evidence
of PW4. This apart, it is to be mentioned here that Ext-2 is the
statement of the alleged victim girl recorded U/s 164 CrPC. I have gone

through the said statement and it would be clearly seen that PW4 had

Page 7 of 13
Page /8
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

clearly stated the entire facts with all minute details in Ext-2 as she had
deposed in the court. There has been total corroboration of her
evidence in the court with the statement which she made during
investigation which has been recorded as Ext-2. This further lends
credence to the evidence of PW4 and makes her evidence completely

reliable and worthy of acceptance.

19.PW1 and PW2 who are the mother and the father of the alleged victim
girl had also supported the version of PW4. They have stated that they
got to know about the incident from their daughter on reaching the
house of PW3 and PW6. Their daughter told them that the accused
came to their house asking for lime and when she went inside the
house to bring lime, the accused grabbed her from behind and also
squeezed her breast and also made her lie on the bed and wanted to do
bad act. This is all what is stated by PW4 as well and thus, there is
nothing in the evidence of PW1 and PW2 which is inconsistent with the
evidence of PW4. The evidence on record are consistent, cogent and

inspires confidence.

20.It is important to point out here that PW1 clearly deposed in her
evidence that at the relevant time of the occurrence, her daughter was
14 years of age. PW2 being the father of the victim had also deposed
that the victim girl was aged about 14 years at the time of the incident
and she was born in the year 2004. This evidence was not disputed by
the defence in any way. This is therefore, clearly established by the
evidence adduced in the case that the alleged victim girl was a child
within the meaning of Sec.2 (1) (d) of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

21.The learned defence counsel had argued that this case has been falsely
Slapped on the accused on account of a long standing enmity between
the parties. In order to prove the facts centering round the said enmity,

the defence has examined DW1 (Smt. Mamoni Devi). She had deposed

Page 8 of 13
Page /9
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

in her evidence that the accused is her brother. She knew the
informant, the victim girl and her father. She had further deposed that
the father of the victim girl, wanted to marry DW1 about 20 years back
but her family refused to give her in marriage with the father of the
victim girl as DW1 was just below 18 years of age at that time. After
about 8 years, the brother of PW2 had taken away the sister of DW1
and married her. The father of DW1 went to the house of PW2 to bring
back his daughter but she was not allowed to come back to her
parental home. Since then, there was no visiting terms with the family
of PW2 and PW2 threatened that he would take revenge upon the
family of DW1. It is therefore, stated that this false case is now slapped

on the brother of DW1 just to wreak the old vengeance.

22.1 have carefully considered the aforesaid evidence of DW1 but regret
my inability to agree to the said story put forward by the defence. It is
highly improbable that PW2 being a father, would file a false case
jeopardizing the chastity of his grown daughter only because a
bitterness developed between the two families some 20 years back.
Nobody would opt to put the character of his own daughter at stake by
brining a false case even if he has an axe to grind against the family of
the accused. It is therefore, highly improbable that such a weird course
of action would be adopted by a father as claimed by the defence. The
defence story of false implication is therefore, liable to be rejected lock,
stock and barrel in the face of the clinching and overwhelming evidence

led by the prosecution.

23.Now, Section 7 of the POCSO Act, provides that whoever, with sexual
intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of a child, or makes the
child touch the vagina, penis, anus, or breast of such person or any
other persons, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves

physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.

Page 9 of 13
Page /10
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

24.So far as the evidence of the victim girl is concerned, it is already seen
that her evidence is consistent and worthy of credence. There is
nothing in her evidence to reject the same. Since the victim is found to
be believable and the remaining evidence also inspires confidence, the
onus, in view of Sec. 29 of the POCSO Act, would shift on the accused
to establish by cogent evidence as to why the prosecution evidence
with respect to the charge against him should not be relied upon. But
the defence had neither elicited anything adverse by way of cross-
examination nor could project a believable defence story to negate the
prosecution case. Thus, the defence has totally failed to discharge the

onus placed on it.

25.In view of the definition provided for sexual assault in Section 7 of the
POCSO Act, the act of accused in grabbing the victim from behind and
making her lie down in supine position on the bed and squeezing her
breasts, falls within the ambit of sexual assault and the sexual intent is

explicitly gathered from the circumstances.

26.In the result and for the reasons and discussions made herein
above, I have no hesitation in my mind in holding that the prosecution
has succeeded in proving the case against accused person above-
named. He is hence, found guilty of the offence U/s 8 of POCSO
Act, 2012 and convicted accordingly. There is however, nothing in
the evidence to show commission of any offence punishable U/s 12 of
the Act and as such, the accused is not found guilty of any offence U/s

12 of the Act and acquitted of the same.

27.I have reconsidered the facts and circumstances of this case to see as
to whether the benefit of Sec. 360 of the CrPC or the provisions of
Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 can be extended to the accused
person. This is a case where the accused taking advantage of the
loneliness of a child of 14 years at home, sexually assaulted her and

perhaps, he would have gone further but for the good fortune, an

Page 10 of 13
Page /|11
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

aggravated assault on the victim could be averted. This act in itself is,
highly reprehensible. The accused is a man of matured understanding
to perceive the implication of his misdeed. He does not deserve any
leniency. Hence, I am not inclined to extend the benefit of Sec. 360 of
the CrPC or the provisions of Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 to the

accused person.

28. HEARING ON QUESTION OF SENTENCE:

Sec. 235 (2) of the CrPC is a mandatory provision of law. The court is
required to hear the accused on the question of sentence. I have
accordingly heard the accused. He had stated that he is married having
wife and two children. He is stated to be the only bread-winner of the
family and so, he prayed for leniency in the matter of imposition of

sentence.

29.Having so heard and on conviction as aforesaid, the accused is
sentenced to suffer RI for 4 (Four) years and to pay a fine of Rs.
5000/- (Five thousand) and in default of payment of fine, to
suffer further RI for 6 (Six) months u/s 8 of POCSO Act, 2012.

30.The period already undergone by the accused shall be set off.
31.COMPENSATION TO VICTIM:

I have considered the provision of Sec. 33 (8) of POCSO Act, 2012 and
also Rule 7 of POCSO Rules, 2012. Having considered the facts and
broad circumstances of this case under which the offence was
committed and all other relevant aspects of this case including the age
of the victim, her social background as perceivable from the evidence
and severity of the mental trauma presumably suffered by the victim, I
am of the considered view that an order as to compensation deserves
to be suo moto, passed in favour of the victim girl. In this regard, I

have also duly considered the directions rendered by the Hon’ble

Page 11 of 13
Page | 12
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

Apex Court in the case of Nipun Saxena and Another Vs Union of
India and Others, WP(C) No. 565 of 2012 dated. 05.09.2018.

32.It is therefore, directed that a compensation which is
quantified at Rs. 75,000/- (Rupees Seventy Five Thousand)
shall be paid to the victim girl by the District Legal Services
Authority, Tezpur after complying with the norms and
procedures prescribed therefor. Let a copy of this judgment be
also sent to the District Legal Services Authority, Tezpur, for

doing the needful as directed above.

33. Let a free copy of this judgment be forthwith furnished to the accused

person.

34. Forward a copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate in compliance
of Sec.365 CrPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on the 20"
day of February/2020.

Typed and Corrected by me:

Addl. Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur:: Tezpur.

Page 12 of 13
Page | 13
Special (POCSO) Case No. 76 of 2018

APPENDIX
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

PW1 (Smt. XXX)

PW2 (Sri XXX)

PW3 (Smt. Pratibha Kalita)
PW4 (Miss XXX)

PW5 (Sri Harilal Sharma)
PW6 (Smt. Lipika Kalita)
PW7 (Dr. Debajit Hazarika)
PW8 (Sri Cheniram Gogoi)
PW9 (Sri Tosheswar Baruah)
PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:

Ext-1: FIR.

Ext-2: Statement U/s 164 CrPC of the Victim girl.
Ext-3: Medical Report.

Ext-4: Chargesheet.

DEFENCE WITNESSES:

DW1 (Smt. Mamoni Devi)

DEFENCE EXHIBITS:

NIL.

Addl. Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur:: Tezpur.

Page 13 of 13
