Spl POCSO 32/16.

State of Assam. sii: Complainant.

Saidul Alam. Es... Accused person.
S/O Md. Mohibur Rahman Choudhury.
Siknarayanpur.

P.S. Katigorah.Cachar.

ORDER
Dated: 23-02-17.

Accused is present. The victim and complainant are presentas P.Ws. They
are examined. Only victim is cross-examined and they are discharged. Considering the
nature of evidence learned P.P. has submitted for closure of the prosecution evidence on
the ground that examination of accused any further witness would not in any way
improve the prosecution case. Sufficient force is found in the submission. Hence,
evidence is closed. I would like to dispose of the case under provision of Sec 232
Cr.P.C. Accused is examined .Heard argument of both sides.

In the instance case charge was framed U/S 366 IPC R.W. Sec 4 of POCSO Act
on the accusation that on 13-12-13 at about 10.00 p.m. the accused kidnapped the
victim minor girl of the complainant and subsequently committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim. The charges were when read out accused pleaded not guilty.

P.W.1 is the complainant, the mother of the victim. According to her out of
misunderstanding she lodged the complaint against the accused. Ext-1 is the FIR. She
further she had no grievance against the accused.

P.W.2 the victim. According to her out of love affairs with the accused she fled
away with the accused and subsequently she got married with the accused. Out of their
wedlock two children were born but subsequently died.She has also stated that out of
misunderstanding she lodged the FIR. And they have been residing as husband and
wife. She has no grievance against the accused.

From the above, it reveals that there is nothing comes out against the
accused to establish the allegation of any sexual assault. That being so, the
prosecution charge is held to be not proved at all for want of implicating evidence.
Accused is thus held to be not guilty of the offence as charged or whatsoever and he is
therefore acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.

Bail bond stands discharged.
This order of acquittal is pronounced and delivered in the open Court under my
seal & signature of this Court on this 23rd day of February, 2017.

Special Judge.
Cachar.Silchar.
