Page 1 of 5
Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2018

IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI
RE ENA TNS EAINGAALL,
SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl POCSO Case No. 14/2018
u/s 18 r/w Sec. 8 of POCSO Act, 2012

 

State of Assam
-VS-
Sri Ajoy Munda

ee Accused person

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Special Judge,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Advocates _Appeared:-
For the prosecution: Ms. J. Kalita, learned Addl. P.P

For the defence : Mr. P.P. Borah, learned Advocate.

Dates of recording Evidence: 01.11.2018, 09.01.2019, 02.04.2019, 13.06.2019.
Date of Argument : 31.07.2019.
Date of Judgment : 31.07.2019.

JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 10.04.2018 the informant namely, Sri Ramsingh
Munda lodged an ‘ejahar' with the OC, Biswanath Chariali PS stating inter alia that on
04.04.2018 at about 10 AM, taking advantage of absence of other inmates in his house,

 

the accused criminally trespassed into his house and he thereafter noticing his 15-year-old
sister sleeping, tied both her hands with a 'gamosa'. As soon as his sister awoke from her
Sleep, he pressed her neck with his hands and threatened to kill her. He with another
‘gamosa'’ gagged her mouth and tried to commit rape on her. At that very moment, he
arrived there and the accused then fled away. He stated that on 08.04.2018 at about 9 AM
a 'bichar' was held where the accused had admitted to his guilt.
2. Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After
investigation, the police submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 448/506 IPC, r/w
8 of the POCSO Act.
3. The accused in due course appeared before this court, wherein the copies of the relevant

documents were furnished to him. After hearing both the sides on the point of charge and
 

Sn

AnM\
ai"

4

Page 2 of 5
Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2018

taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173 CrPC, as this court found grounds for
presuming that the accused had committed an offence u/s 18 of the POCSO Act, 2012, r/w
Section 8 of the said Act, the charges were accordingly framed against him, which on being
read over and explained, he pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial, the prosecution examined 8 witnesses in all including the Medical Officer as

PW7 and the Investigating Officer as PW 8. The accused was thereafter examined u/s 313
CrPC. His plea was total denial. He refused to any evidence on his behalf. The case was
thereafter, argued by both the sides.

Points for determination

 

Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence attempted to commit sexual
assault on the said victim, who is a child below the age of 18 years, and in that attempt
tied her hands and mouth with 'gamosa' in her house?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

5. PW 1 is the informant, Sri Ramsingh Munda. He stated that the occurrence took place

about 7 months back. According to him, his sister- the victim PW2- was suffering from
fever and was in the house sleeping. At about 10 AM of the said day, the accused
entered into their house when other inmates were absent and tied the hands and the
mouth of the victim with 'gamasa'. At that relevant time, he came to his house. When
he opened the door of his house, the accused fled away. He thereafter, untied the victim
who told him weeping that the accused wanted to commit 'bad work’ on her and he told
her that if she would raise alarm, he will kill her by pressing her neck. Later, he caught
hold of the accused and given him in custody of the villagers. One ‘bichar’ was arranged
by him but that did not take place. Later, the victim was medically examined. He proved
his ‘ejahar’ as Ext. 1. In his cross-examination he stated that at the time of the
occurrence he was on the road. The door of his house was closed from inside and he
entered into the house by breaking the door hook. Later, he stated that the door could
be opened from outside and he opened the door in that way. He does not know the
exact age of the victim.

~ 6. PW 8, the Investigating Officer, SI, Amal Chandra Dey however contradicted the PW 1

and stated that the informant did not state before him that he found the victim being
tied up. He did not seize any 'gamosa' as the informant did not produce any 'gamosa'
before him. When we turn to the evidence of PW 2- the victim, we find her stating that
she was sleeping at that relevant time for her illness as she had headache. She thereby
contradicted PW1 who had stated that the victim was sleeping in the house at that

relevant time due to fever. PW 2 further stated that she was alone in her house when
10.

Page 3 of 5
Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2018

the accused entered into their house. She stated that she could not detect as to when
the accused entered into their house. The accused tied up her hands first and
thereafter, her mouth after she raised 'hullah’. According to her, the accused threatened
to kill her, if she would raise 'hullah’. At that moment the informant came and the
accused fled away. The informant then untied her hands. She stated that the accused
after tying her hands did not harm her, She was medically examined. She proved her
statement recorded u/s 164 CrPC as Ext. 2.

Thus from the evidence of PW 2- the victim, we find that the accused did not do
anything to her which suggests that his intention was to commit any sexual assault on
the victim. According to her, the accused did not do anything to her except tying her
hands and mouth. In her cross-examination she stated that she too was not aware of
her actual age.

PW 7- the Medical Officer, Dr. Mitali Borbora proving the medical examination report of
the victim as Ext. 3 stated that she did not find any sign of recent sexual activity on the
said victim. According to her, the victim was aged about 17 years. Thus we noticed that
the Medical Officer, i.e., the PW 7, did not find any sign of recent sexual activity on the
victim.

. PW 3 Kania Munda had stated that he had heard that the accused had committed rape

on the said victim, which however is not supported by the victim, PW 2. PW 4, Bhagrai
Munda had heard that the accused had entered into the house of the victim but he
could not say as to why he had entered into their house. PW 5, Bikram Bhumij stated
that he has no knowledge about the said occurrence. PW6 Baida Munda stated that he
could learn from the informant that the accused had tied up the hands of the victim
inside their house and the accused could not do any ‘bad work' with her.

Thus from the evidence of all the witnesses examined by the prosecution and more
particularly from the evidence of the victim- PW 2, we find nothing to show that the
accused on the given day had tied the hands of the victim with an intention to commit
sexual assault on her. PW 2 stated in her evidence that the accused did not do anything
to her except tying her hands with ‘gamosa’. PW 8 on the other hand contradicted the
PW 1 and stated that he did not state before him during investigation the case that the
accused had tied the hands and mouth of the victim inside their house. PW 7, the

~ Medical Officer did not find mark of any sexual assault committed on the said victim. All

these therefore, go to show that the prosecution has failed to prove its case against the
accused. As such, I acquit the accused from the offences charged against him and set
him at liberty forthwith. His bail bond stands discharged. The provision u/s 437-A CrPC
is not complied with after taking note of the evidence on record. A copy of the judgment
be forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec. 365 CrP.c.
Page 4 of 5

Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2018
The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 31st day of July, 2019.

A
we “) \ | "

(D. BORA)
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.
Page 5 of 5

Spl. POCSO Case No. 14/2018

ANNEXURE

 

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Sri Ramsingh Munda

PW2- Victim

PW3- Sri Kania Munda

PW4- Sri Bhagrai Munda

PWS- Sri Bikram Bhumij

PW6- Sri Baida Muda

PW7- Dr. Mitali Borbora (M.O.)

PW8- ASI Amal Chandra Dey (1.0.)

“ Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
-Exhibit-1: Ejahar
-Exhibit-2: photo-copy of Ext. 5 (mistakenly marked)
Exhibit-3: Medico-legal Report

Exhibit-4:Sketch Map

Exhibit-5: Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC
Exhibit-6: Charge sheet

Witnesses examined by the Defence:
None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:
None.
