1 Special (POCSO) Case No.81/2018.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE : LAKHIMPUR :
AT NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

PRESENT- M.A.Choudhury,
Special J udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

SPECI AL (POCSO) CASE NO.81/ 2018.
Under Section - 366 IPC and under Section - 4 of the POCSO Act.

PARTIES

State of Assam. ... Complainant.
-versus-

Sri Rajib Mandal. ... Accused.

ADVOCATES APPEARED IN_ THE CASE :

Mr. Madhab Gogoi, Special Public Prosecutor. ... For the State of Assam.
Mr. S.1. Hazarika and Mr. M. Ahmed, Advocates. ... For the Accused.

Date of framing of charge. :08.08.2018.
Date of taking evidence. :04.09.2018.
Date of hearing Argument. (04.09.2018.
Date of delivery of J udgment. :06.09.2018.

UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution, in brief, as follows :
On 24.05.2018, Sri David Mali, the General Secretary of All
Adivasi Students’ Association of Assam, lodged an ejahar with Laluk Police
Station to the effect that the victim X is a minor girl, who is the daughter of Sri
Puran Bhumiz of village- Dakhin Ohat. It is stated in the ejahar that some days
Contd...
2 Special (POCSO) Case No.81/2018.

back since the filing of this ejahar, the accused, Sri Rajib Mandal of village
Kutokai (Raj-Ali) had taken away the victim X in his house in order to marry her.
In the ejahar, it is also stated that the victim X was a minor girl and has been

reading in class-X.

2. On receiving the ejahar, the Officer-in-charge of Laluk
Police Station registered a case vide Laluk P.S. Case No.148/2018 under Section
366(A) IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and entrusted the charge of

investigation to SI Gobin Chandra Das.

3. After taking the charge of investigation of the case, the
1.0. visited the place of occurrence, prepared sketch map of the place of
occurrence and recorded the statement of the witnesses u/s 161 CrPC. The 1.0.
recovered the victim X and got her medically examined by a doctor at North
Lakhimpur Civil Hospital. Thereafter, the 1.0. got recorded the statement of the
victim X u/s 164 CrPC before the court. The |.0. arrested the accused, Sri Rajib
Mandal and forwarded him to the judicial custody. After completion of the
investigation of the case, the 1.0. on being found sufficient incriminating
materials against the accused, Sri Rajib Mandal under Section 366(A) IPC and
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, submitted the charge-sheet against the
accused, Sri Rajib Mandal under Section 366(A) IPC and under Section 4 of the
POCSO Act.

4. The accused, Sri Rajidb Mandal made his appearance
before the court and necessary copies were furnished to him. After hearing the
learned advocates of both sides and perusing the case record, sufficient
materials under Section 366 IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act had been
found against the accused person in the case record. Accordingly, charge under
Section 366 IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act had been framed against
the accused, Sri Rajib Mandal. The charges were read over and explained to the
accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. In course of trial, the prosecution side examined 2 (two)
witnesses.

Contd...
3 Special (POCSO) Case No.81/2018.

6. The recording of the statement of the accused person
under Section 313 CrPC is felt not necessary as because the prosecution
witnesses examined have not implicated the accused person in their evidence

regarding commission of any offence.

7. The accused person led no evidence in his defence.

8. Heard Argument from the learned advocates of both

sides.

9. Perused the case record and the evidence adduced by

the prosecution side in the case very carefully.

10. The points for determination in this case are :

(1) Whether the accused, Sri Rajib Mandal on 15.05.2018
at about 3 pm at Dakhin Ohat under Laluk Police Station, Dist. Lakhimpur,
kidnapped the victim X, a minor girl aged above 12 years and below 18 years
with intent that she might be compelled or knowing it to be likely that she would
be compelled to marry him or that she might be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse with him?

(11) Whether the accused, Sri Rajib Mandal after
kidnapping the victim X, a minor girl aged above 12 years and below 18 years,

committed penetrative sexual assault on her person?

11. DECISION AND REASONS

The prosecution side examined 2 (two) witnesses. PW.1 is

the victim of the case. PW.2, Sri Puran Bhumiz is the father of the victim X.

PW.1, the victim X stated, in her evidence, that she knows
the accused, Sri Rajib Mandal. The house of the accused is situated at Kutukai
under Laluk Police Station. She, in her evidence, stated that she knows the
accused person because the accused person often comes to her house. She also

Contd...
4 Special (POCSO) Case No.81/2018.

stated that on 15.05.2018, she had gone to Bank Tiniali, Itanagar (Arunachal
Pradesh) in the house of her elder sister without informing her parents. She, in
her evidence, also stated that she stayed for four days in the house of her elder
sister in Arunachal Pradesh, and after four days, she came back to her house
from Arunachal Pradesh, and then she came to know that a case was lodged with
the Police Station alleging that the accused, Sri Rajio Mandal had kidnapped her.
She, in her evidence, further stated that the accused, Sri Rajib Mandal had not
kidnapped her. She also stated that she had not gone with the accused person.
She further stated that she had not performed any sexual intercourse with the
accused person. She also stated that this case has been lodged falsely with the

Police Station.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.1, the victim X. On
careful scrutiny of the evidence of PW.1, it is found that she has not implicated

the accused person in her evidence regarding commission of any offence.

PW.2, Sri Puran Bhumiz is the father of the victim X. PW.2,
in his evidence, stated that the victim X is his daughter, who is 19 years old. He
also stated that he knows the accused, Sri Rajib Mandal. He, in his evidence, also
stated that the accused, Sri Rajib Mandal often comes to the house of his
paternal aunt, which is situated nearby his house. He also stated that about
three months back, his daughter victim X had gone to Bank Tiniali, Itanagar
(Arunachal Pradesh) in the house of his elder daughter without informing him
and his family members and stayed there for four days, and thereafter, his victim
daughter X came back to his house. He, in his evidence, further stated that the
accused, Sri Rajib Mandal had not kidnapped his daughter. The accused person
also had not made any bad relation with his daughter victim X. He, in his
evidence, further stated that this case has been lodged falsely by the Students’
union against the accused, Sri Rajib Mandal.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.2, the father of the
victim X. On careful scrutiny of the evidence adduced by the PW.2, | do not find
any incriminating material in his evidence against the accused person regarding
commission of any offence.

Contd...
5 Special (POCSO) Case No.81/2018.

12. The prosecution evidence is made close as the victim X
and her father, PW.2, Sri Puran Bhumiz did not implicate the accused person for
committing of any offence in their evidence and as on the basis of the evidence
adduced by the victim X and PW.2, her father Sri Puran Bhumiz, it seems that

further evidence will not improve the prosecution evidence.

13. Because of what have been discussed and pointed out
here-in-above, it is appeared that the prosecution side has totally failed to prove
the charges under Section 366 IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act
brought against the accused person, Sri Rajidb Mandal and the accused person

deserves to be acquitted.

14. |, therefore, hold the accused person, Sri Rajib Mandal
not guilty and acquit him from the charges under Section 366 IPC and under
Section 4 of the POCSO Act. The accused person is set at his liberty forthwith.

15. Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the
6'" day of September, 2018.

( M. A. Choudhury )
Special | udge,

Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Dictated & corrected by me -

( M.A.Choudhury )
Special J udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by-
Sri Satyabrata Kshattry, Stenographer.

Contd...
6 Special (POCSO) Case No.81/2018.

APPENDIX
1. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE :
PW.1 - Victim X.
PW.2 - Sri Puran Bhumiz.

2. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE :
Nil.

3. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED IN THE CASE :
NIL

( M. A. Choudhury )
Special | udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
