 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 16 (T) of 2018

U/s 8 of POCSO Act &
u/s 370 of I.P.C.

The State of ASSAM —___haacaeesacseeceeeeeesenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Ashraful Haque,
S/o- Sri Saharab Ali
R/o- Tistapar Gaon
P.S- Dhubri
District- Dhubri, ASSAM a... eect eeee eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor ...........0.. For the State
Naresh Prasad,
Advocate —__hinecacecucveueeeaees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 04/09/2019

Date of Judgment: 04/09/2019

} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. On 16/04/2018, at about 7 pm, the daughter of the
informant disappeared from his house. She was born on
23/01/2001. The father searched for his daughter, but could
not find her. Next morning, he went to the Talap Outpost and
informed police about the disappearance of his daughter.

2. On that day, at about 7 /8 am, Pankaj Changmai, who is
a relative of the informant father got an information that a boy
and a girl were taking shelter in a house at Bokapathar gaon.
The information was immediately transmitted by Pankaj
Changmai to the father of the victim girl. After that, the father
of the victim girl along with police went to Bokapathar village
and on reaching there, they could come to know that the
couple had already left that area. From the owner of the house
at Bokapathar, the father of the victim came to know that a
boy and a girl had stayed at the night in his house.

3. On that day, at about 2 pm the Officer-in-Charge of
Duliajan P.S called the father of the victim girl and told him
that his daughter was detained in the said police station.
Thereafter, Doomdooma Police Station brought the victim girl

from Duliajan.

4. The victim girl was subjected to medical examination.
On that day, she was menstruating, so Doctor could not
examine her private parts. The victim told Doctor that on
16/04/2018, at about 7.30 pm somebody forcibly took her in a
van and kept her for the night at Bokapathar and on the next
day, she was taken to Duliajan. The victim also told before the
Doctor that a person called Ashraful Haque had committed
rape upon her, while she was kept at Bokapathar gaon.

5. The victim was also sent to a court for recording her
statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. She claimed before the Magistrate
that she was 17 years old. She further stated that the accused
Ashraful Haque had called her over phone and told her that he
would be taking her away. The accused also told the victim
that she should bring gold ornaments with her, while she
would be coming with him. The victim girl told before the
Magistrate that as per the instruction of the accused Ashraful
Haque, she took an amount of Rs. 12,000/- in cash and also
took with her gold ornaments and came out of the house in
order to meet the accused. According to the victim, when she
came out of her house, she found that a Maruti van was
waiting for her on the road, but the occupants of the vehicle
were unknown to her. The victim also stated before the
Magistrate that she fell in love with Ashraful Haque, by seeing
his picture in Facebook and WhatsApp. The victim told
Magistrate that she did not see that person, whose
photograph she had seen in Facebook and Whatsapp. The
victim claimed before the Magistrate that Ashraful Haque had
cheated her by uploading someone else photograph in his
profile and lured her to love him. The victim has stated before
the Magistrate that Ashraful Haque took her to Bokapathar
and kept her in the house of an unknown person, where
Ashraful Haque wanted to commit rape upon her. The victim
stated before the Magistrate that next morning, she was taken
to Duliajan in a Bolero vehicle and on reaching Duliajan,
Ashraful Haque had hired another car for going to Jorhat. The
victim has stated before the Magistrate that the driver of the
said vehicle suspected that something wrong was going on
and therefore, he took the vehicle to Duliajan PS. and in that
way the victim came to the custody of Duliajan PS.

6. On conclusion of investigation, police filed the charge
sheet against the accused Ashraful Haque u/s 366 (A) of I.P.C.
and u/s 8 of the POCSO Act. On his appearance before this
court, the charges u/s 8 of the POCSO Act and u/s 370 of the
Indian Penal Code was framed against the accused.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

7. The points for determination in this trial, are as to:-

l. Whether on 16/04/2018, at Bokapathar Gaon, the
accused Ashraful Haque had committed rape upon the victim
girl, who was below 18 years of age? and

ll. Whether on 16/04/2018, at Bokapathar Gaon, the
accused Ashraful Haque for the purpose of exploitation
transfered the victim girl by using force?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

8. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as _ eight
witnesses. The defence plea is total denial. | have carefully
gone through the prosecution evidences.

9. Here in this case, the victim girl is the only eye witness
to the occurrence, therefore | shall first take up her evidence.
The victim girl has stated in her evidence that at the time of
occurrence, she was in love with a person named Mujamil
Sarkar, whom she knew as Raju Roy. She has stated in her
evidence that on 16/04/2018, at about 7 pm, the aforesaid
Raju Roy @ Mujamil Sarkar called her over phone and asked
her to elope with him immediately. The victim girl stated that
in response to the call of Raju Roy, she went out of the house.
The victim claimed that she took with her gold ornaments like
finger rings, bangles, chain, ear rings etc. and also took an
amount of Rs. 12,000/- in cash. The victim has stated that she
was promised by Raju Roy that he would be waiting infront of
her house in a van. The victim has stated that when she had
reached the said van, its occupants were unknown to her. She
asked those unknown persons about the whereabouts of Raju
Roy. The victim girl has stated that those unknown persons
told her that Raju Roy was there, but she could not see him.
According to the victim girl, the unknown occupants of the
vehicle forcibly pulled her inside the vehicle and put one black
cloth on her face and took her to Bokapathar village. Those
unknown persons had told her that Raju Roy was waiting for
her in a house at Bokapathar. The victim girl has stated that
she was taken to a house at Bokapathar, but she could not
find Raju Roy there. The victim disclosed that the accused
Ashraful Haque was with her, but at that time she did not
know his name. The victim has stated that she slept with the
accused Ashraful Haque that night and had _ physical
relationship. She has stated that on the next morning, she was
taken to Duliajan and she was told by the present accused
that he would be taking her to his house. The victim girl has
stated that on reaching Duliajan, they hired one vehicle in
order to go to Jorhat, but the vehicle driver brought her and
the accused to Duliajan PS. and handed them over to police.
The victim has proved her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.PC,
as Ext. 2.

10. Now, | shall take up the evidence of the Police
Investigating Officer. He has stated in his evidence that the
victim girl was maintaining friendship with the accused
Ashraful Haque in Facebook for a period of about 6 months. He
also came to know that the victim had collected the phone
number of the accused from a person named Raju Sarkar. The
1.0 has stated that the victim was regularly chatting with the
accused Ashraful Haque in Whatsapp. The I|.0 has further
came to know that in the Facebook account, the accused
Ashraful Hague did not post his photograph; rather he had
posted somebody else's photograph and therefore, the victim
never saw the accused Ashraful Haque prior to the

occurrence.

11. The other witnesses in this case are the informant, the
father of the victim girl, Ankur Deb, Chinmoy Baruah,
Chidananda Baruah, Bubul Munda and the Doctor, who had
examined the victim girl during the period of investigation.

12. The father of the victim girl has stated in his evidence
that his daughter told him that she was in love with a person
named Raju Roy @ Mujamil Sarkar and on the day of
occurrence, though she went out of the house, after being
called by the said Raju Roy, but she could not meet him;

rather she met some unknown persons, who took her away in
a vehicle. The father of the victim girl has quoted his daughter
as saying to him that after she was forcibly put in the vehicle,
she had lost her consciousness.

13. The witness Ankur Deb has stated that one day he was
traveling in a Bolero vehicle and was coming from Bokapathar
to Tinsukia. He noticed that one boy and a girl were also
sitting inside the vehicle. Ankur Deb has stated that within a
very short time, he came to know that the girl was from
Bokapathar village and the boy was a Muslim and he came to
know that both had eloped together. Ankur Deb has stated
that when the vehicle reached Doomdooma, he got down from
the said vehicle and borrowed one motor cycle from a friend of
his and went to house of the parents of the victim and
informed them that their daughter had eloped with a boy.

14. The witness Chinmoy Baruah is a relative of the victim
girl. His evidence is hearsay. When the victim girl was
recovered by police, he went to Duliajan PS. and brought her

home.

15. The witness Chidananda Baruah is also a relative of the
victim. He has stated in his evidence that one day the victim
disappeared from her house and after two days, she returned
home. The witness has stated that he did not ask any question
to the victim.

16. The witness Bubul Munda has stated in his evidence
that one day he saw that a Bolero vehicle was parked infront
of the house of his neighbour Amit Munda. He has stated that
the victim and the accused had boarded the said vehicle and
after that he and the witness Ankur Deb also boarded that
vehicle in order to go to Tinsukia.
17. All the prosecution witnesses have been extensively
cross examined by the defence counsel.

18. During cross examination, the victim has admitted that
she knew the accused Ashraful Haque for a long time, as he
was working as a contractor at Dholla. She has also stated
before the defence counsel that when she reached Bokapathar
with the accused, she had food in the house, where she was
kept by the accused. She also admitted that when she and the
accused were traveling from Bokapathar to Duliajan, two other
persons also traveled in the same vehicle and they got down
at Doomdooma.

19. On scrupulous perusal of the evidence of the victim
girl, | find that she never stated in her evidence that the
accused had forcible sexual intercourse with her. The victim
has stated before the Magistrate that while she was kept at
Bokapathar gaon, the accused attempted to commit rape
upon her. Therefore, | have before me two views. In one view,
the victim stated that the accused attempted to commit rape
upon upon her; whereas on the other view, the victim stated
that she had physical relationship with the accused.

20. Apart from the aforesaid facts, on closed scrutiny of the
evidence of the victim girl, | find that the evidence of the
victim girl to the effect that she was raped by the accused and
transfered for the purpose of exploitation, remained not
proved beyond all reasonable doubts against the accused. |
have no doubt that the victim girl was a consenting party to
the act of the accused.

21. According to the birth certificate of the victim girl, she
was born on 23/01/2001 and the birth certificate was issued
on 20/10/2016. Therefore, there is a doubt about the actual
age of the victim girl. The birth certificate must have been
procured for some other purposes. Under the aforesaid
circumstances, | find myself foreclosed against all options, but
to hold that the offences u/s 8 of the POCSO Act and u/s 370 of
the Indian Penal Code are not proved against the accused
Ashraful Haque beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

22s That being the position, the accused Ashraful Haque is
found not guilty and accordingly the accused is acquitted from
this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
Ath day of September, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
10

A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

PW1 -
Pw2. -
PW3 -
PW4 -
PW5 -
PW6 -
PW7 -

ps ewer eS MP

PW8 -

Sri Phanindra Nath Baruah

Smti Jupitara Baruah

Dr. Ashma Zekia Hussain Ghaznavi
Sri Ankur Deb

Sri Chinmoy Baruah

Sri Chidananda Baruah

Sri Bubul Munda

Sri Thagish Doley, S.I.

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

Ext.1-

Ext. 2-
Ext. 3-
Ext. 4 -

1.

2.

3

4

5. Ext. 5 -
6 Ext. 6-
7 Ext. 7 -
8 Ext. 8 -
9 Ext. 9 -
10. M. Ext. 1-

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Ejahar

Statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.PC
Medical report

Statement u/s 164 Cr.PC

Seizure list

Statement of Bubul Munda
Sketch map

Seizure list

Charge sheet

Birth certificate

Special Judge

Tinsukia
