1.
aged about 14 years visited the house of her maternal uncle Rafiqul Islam for an
outing and she stayed there. On the eventful day i.e. on 22.05.2016, at around
10.00 AM,the accused person by way of inducement took her minor daughter
(victim) to his house and confined there. Subsequently, the accused tried to marry
her forcefully and when the victim girl refused to marry him, the accused
assaulted her minor daughter (victim). It is further alleged that during that

captivity her minor daughter was subjected to repeated sexual assaults by the

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sessions (Spl.) Case No.29/2016
U/S 417/376 (2) (i) IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act

Present : Mr. D. K. Das
Sessions Judge, Morigaon.

State of Assam

Vs.
Md. Mainuddin
eceeeeeeas Accused Person

Date of Charge :- 05.11.2016.

Date of recording evidence :- 23.10.2017.

Date of Argument :- 23.10.2017.

Date of Judgment :- 24.10.2017.

Appearance for the Parties

Advocate for the State:- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused:- Mr. A.U.Siddique, Ld. Advocate,.

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in brief is that, the minor daughter of the informant

accused.
On 31.05.2016, the informant filed a complaint petitionbefore the court
for the aforesaid incident. On receipt of the compliant, the O.C of Mikirbheta PS
registered a case vide Mikirbheta PS Case No.188/2016, U/s 417/376/323/34o0f
IPC r/w Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

The investigation was set in motion. During the course of investigation,
the I.0. visited the place of occurrence, examined the victim as well as other
material witnesses and also got the victim medically examined and got her
statement recorded U/s 164 Cr.P.C before the Magistrate. Thereafter, the
learned trial court committed the case to this Court having found it to be
exclusively triable by this Court. The accused was produced before the Court,
wherefrom, he remanded to judicial custody. Thereafter, the I.0. having
completed the investigation and having found sufficient materials against the
accused person submitted charge-sheet against the above-named accused
person for the offences punishable U/s 417/376 (2) (i)of IPC r/w Section 3/4 of
the POCSO Act.Thereafter, this Court furnished with copies of relevant
documents as mandated U/s 207 Cr.P.C. to the accused person. At the time of
submitting the charge-sheet the accused person was languishing in jail and
subsequently, the accused waslet off on Court bail.

Thereafter, having heard Ld. Counsel of both sides and basing upon
materials on record, this Sessions court framed charge U/s 417/376 (2)
(i) IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused person, which was
read over and explained to the accused person to which he pleaded innocence

and claimed to be tried.

2. Point for determination :

(i) Whether the accused personon the eventful day i.e. that you on
22.05.2016, at about 10.00 AM, cheated the victim girlX by inducing her to his
house with an intention to marry her against her wish and that, such act, caused
harm in her (victim) person, body or mind and reputation?

(ii) Whether the accusedpersonon the same day, time and place

committed rape upon the victim X, a minor girl, aged about 14 (fourteen) years?
(iii) | Whether the accused person on the same day, time and place
committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim X, a minor girl, aged 14

(fourteen) years?

a. In this case prosecution has examined 2 (Two) PWs includingthe most
material witnesses of this case, the informant, who is the mother of the victim
girlas PW-1 and the victimas PW-2. But their evidence did not support the
prosecution case on material aspects. In such circumstances, prosecution was
not willing to examine the remaining witnesses and at the instance of the
prosecution its evidence stands closed. Having found no incriminating materials
against the accused, the examination of accused as warranted U/s 313 Cr.P.C.
was dispensed with for ends of justice. The accused declined to adduce defence

evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. In this case, it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful day, i.e.
on 22.05.2016, the above-named accused person by way of inducement took the
victim to his house and wanted to marry her against her will and when the victim
refused to do so then the accused assaulted her and she was subjected to
repeated sexual assaults by the accused.

(a) To prove this fact, the prosecution has examined PW-1, the mother of the
victim girl, who in her evidence has clearly negated the prosecution case as
alleged. She told thatshe is the informant of this case and the accused person is
her nephew.The victim X is her daughter. The alleged incident took place about 1
year ago. At the time of occurrence of the incident, her daughter (victim) X was
18 years old. On the date of occurrence of the incident, her daughter (victim) X

went to the house of her maternal uncle who is the father of the accused. The
accused had an intention to marry her daughter. With regard to this a quarrel
took place between her and the accused. Later on, her daughter was married to
somebody else. Since the accused wanted to marry her daughter forcefully
therefore,she lodged this case. She put thump impression in the complaint
petition.

In her cross-examination, she told that Later on, she realized that she
lodged the case out of misunderstanding. She also told that she do not know the
contents of the complaint petition. It was written by somebody else. Since, she
did not agree to that proposed marital relationship therefore she lodged the case

against the accused but the case was settled mutually.

(b) PW-2 (Victim X) in her evidence she deposed that the informant is her
mother. Sheknows the accused person who is the son of her maternal uncle. The
accused wanted to marry her but her mother did not agree to the said
relationship. A quarrel also took place between her mother and the accused. As
the accused was adamant to marry her therefore, her mother lodged the case
against the accused. After institution of the case, shewas married to somewhere
else. She also made statement before Magistrate as well as before the Police but
shedoes not know the contents thereon.

In her cross-examination, she told that she made statement before the
Magistrate as per the wish of her mother.Her mother lodged the case against the
accused out of misunderstanding. Their dispute is also settled down between the
family members mutually.

Thus, we have found that none of the witnesses including the most vital
witnesses as PW-1 and PW-2 (i.e. theinformant and the victim) examined by the
prosecution have not stated anything as regards to rape and penetrative sexual

assault being allegedly committed by the accused.

6. Considering the evidence on record, we have found that the material part
of the prosecution case remained un-substantiated, as the victim and her mother

herself stated that after institution of the case the victim married to somewhere
else and they also stated that the accused did nothing wrong to her and the case
was lodged out of misunderstanding against the accused person and it was
mutually settled between both the parties and, therefore, the accused person
may be released. So, we have found that the most material witness of this case
as PW-1& PW-2 did not support the prosecution allegation in its material aspects.
Section 232 Cr.P.C. mandates an acquittal of the accused from an offence, which
states that “If, after taking the evidence for the prosecution, examining the
accused and hearing the prosecution and the defence on the point, the Judge
considers that there is no evidence that the accused committed the offence, the
Judge shall record an order of acquittal.”

7. In view of the above discussion and in view of Section 232 Cr.P.C., I have
found that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the accused beyond
any reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused personis not found guilty for the
offences punishable U/s 417/376 (2) (i)of IPC, r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act and

as such, he is acquitted and set at liberty.

Judgment is delivered and pronounced in the open Court on this 24" day

of October, 2017 under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Special Judge.
Morigaon.
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witness

1. PW-1 :- Musstt. Azufa Khatun
2. PW-2 :- Miss X

B. Defencewitness : Nil.

C. Prosecution Exhibit : Nil.

D. Defenceexhibits :- Nil.

Special Judge,
Morigaon.
