SPL. POCSO No. 22/17.
State. n122 353333335. Complainant.
-Vs-

Gautom Ree.

S/O Baikanta Ree..

Vill. Alipur Bagan.

P.S. Lakhipur. niin) Accused.

U/s 366 IPC & U/s 4 of POCSO Act.

ORDER
Dated 17-07-17.

Accused is present.

Heard both sides on the matter of consideration of
charge. Perused the materials on record. Prima facie case is made
out U/S 366 IPC and 4 of POCSO Act. Accordingly formal charges
are framed, read over and explained to which accused pleaded not
guilty. It is submitted by the learned P.P. that both the complainant
and the victim are present and they may be examined today.
Satisfied. Both the complainant and the victim are examined, cross-
examination is declined. Learned P.P. vide petition No. 182(A)/2
has prayed for closure of the prosecution evidence on the ground
that both the victim and the accused got married and out of their
wedlock the victim gave birth of a child and recording of further
evidence would be futile. Sufficient force is found in the
submission. Hence, evidence is closed. I would like to dispose of
the case under provision of Sec 232 Cr.P.C.

Accused is examined. Heard argument of both sides.

In the instance case charges are framed U/s 366 IPC
and U/S 4 of POCSO Act with the accusation that on 01-12-16 the
accused kidnapped the victim and thereafter committed penetrative
sexual assault with the victim. The charges when read out and
explained, the accused has pleaded not guilty.

To prove the case prosecution side has examined two
witnesses. P.W.1 is the complainant, the father of the victim.
According to him, at the material time finding the victim missing
lodged the FIR. Subsequently the victim was recovered from the
house of the accused. It was reported by the victim both of them
got married .Subsequently he gave marriage with the accused and
out of that wedlock the victim gave birth of a male child. He has
further deposed that at the material time the victim was a major.

P.W.2 is the victim. She has also deposed that she at her own
went with the accused out of love affairs and got married at
Kamakhya temple at Guwahati. Out of their relation she gave birth
of a son and presently residing with the accused as his wife. At the
material time she was major.

The above being the non implicating nature of
evidence and age of the victim according to the material witnesses
was above 18 at the material time. This Court is not hesitating to
hold that prosecution case is not proved against the accused.
Accused is thus being held not guilty of the offence as charged or
whatsoever is acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.

Bail bond stands discharged.

This order of acquittal is pronounced and delivered in
the open Court under my seal & signature of this Court on this 17"
day of July, 2017.

Special Judge.
Cachar, Silchar.
