1 eCourtIS copy

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,

SPECIAL CASE NO.49/2019
U/S 366 of IPC R/W Sec 4 of
POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM

Vs

Sri Biswajit Karmakar

S/O Sri Mantu Karmakar
village- Tengapara, W No.5
P.S.Kokrajhar

District- Kokrajhar

beneaees Accused person.
Appearance: -

Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghose, Special P.P
Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. U. C. Nath

Charge framed on 03.02.2020
Evidence recorded on 17.02.2020; 13.03.2020
Argument heard on 13.03.2020
Judgment pronounced on 13.02.2020
UDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution is that on 27.10.2012 one Smt xxx,

mother of the victim, lodged a writen complaint before the Chief Judicial
Magistrate, Kokrajhar alleging that accused Sri Biswajit Karmakar has
abducted her minor daughter. The complaint was forwarded to Kokrajhar

PS and a case under Section 366A/324/34 IPC was registered. In the

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
2 eCourtIS copy
course of investigation, a charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act was

added.

2. After completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was laid
against the accused Sri Biswajit Karmakar for commission of offence

U/S 363 of IPC , R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. The accused person was arrested and produced before the
Special Judge. On his production, copies of the relevant documents were
furnished to him. After hearing both the sides charges under Section 366
of IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused to

which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

4. In the course of trial prosecution examined 4 (four ) witnesses. At
the closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined
U/S 313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and the

accused declined to adduce any evidence.

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(ii) Whether the accused is guilty of offence under

Section 366 of IPC ?

(i) Whether the accused is guilty of offence under
Section 4 of the POCSO Act?
DECISION AND REASONS :

6. Pwl1 Smti. Xxx, mother of the victim, deposed that about 8 years
back her daughter, xxx, the victim, went missing. She had lodged an

FIR at Kokrajhar Police Station. After about 2/3 years, her daughter

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy
came home. She came to know that her daughter had married the
accused and has girl child. Her daughter is presently living with the
accused. She has 2 children. At the time of lodging the FIR she did not
know that there was a love affair between accused and her daughter.
She had lodged the FIR before the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Kokrajhar. Exhibit-1 is the complaint and Exhibit 1(1) and 1(2) are her
signatures.

7. In cross examination Pwl deposed that her daughter had already
attained the age of 18 years at the time when she eloped with the
accused.

8. Pw2 Smti. Xxx, the vicitm, deposed that she knows the accused.
He is her husband. About 8 years back she eloped with the accused
and married her. She has 2 children. The eldest one is a daughter, aged
about 6 years and the younger one is a son is aged about 3 years. Her
mother lodged the FIR out of mistake of facts. She is presently living
with the accused.

9. Pw3 Smti. Rubi Das deposed that about 8 years back xxx, the
mother of the victim, was her tenant. One day she learnt that her
daughter has married the accused. She does not know anything else
about the case.

10.. Pw4 Sri Jnantu Sarkar deposed that he know the informant. He
deposed that in the year 2012 the daughter of informant eloped with a
boy. He only knows this much about the case. He does not know with
whom she eloped.

11. The evidence on record does not reveal any ingredients for the

offence of kidnapping or for the offence of penetrative sexual assault on

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
4 eCourtIS copy
a minor child. The mother of the victim deposed that the victim had
attained the age of 18 years at the time when she eloped with the
accused. So being the evidence on record, the charges fail and points for

determination are answered in negative.

ORDER

Accused Sri Biswajit Karmakar is acquitted of the charges under

Section 366 of IPC , R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act and set at liberty

forthwith.

His bail bonds shall remain valid for six months.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this 13 day of

March 2020.
Dictated by
Special Judge Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-
Exhibit-1 Complaint

2. Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1 Smti. Sarada Sarma
P.W.2 Smti Anima Karmakar
P.W.3 Smti. Rubi Das
P.W.4 Sri Jnantu Sarkar
4.Defence Witness Nil
5. Court witness Nil

Special Judge(FTC),
Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
