IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE tittiiiiiitiinnintinnninniinitii: DHUBRI

Present :-Mr. R.A. Tapadar,AJS

Date : 02.03.2020.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 102 of 2018
(Under Section 448 IPC R/W Sec.8 of POCSO Act)
The State of Assam
-Versus-
Mohammad Ali
beeeeeees Accused Persons.

APPEARANCE

For the State........ Mr. Uttam Kumar Sarkar, learned Spl.P.P.
For the Defence ....Mr. Y.A. Bepari, learned Advocate.

Date of framing charge : 07.03.2019

Evidence recorded on ~— :-05.04.2019, 25.11.2019.
Argument heard on :-17.02.2020

Judgment delivered on :- 02.03.2020.

JUDGMENT

1. Mohammad Ali (hereinafter referred to as “accused”) is before this
court facing accusation for the commission of offence U/s. 448 IPC R/W

Sec.8 of POCSO Act.

2. The prosucution case, in brief, is that the informant, Ms. 'X' lodged an
FIR before the I/c., Paglahat Watch Post under Tamarhat P.S on 2.2.17 and
inter-alia stated that on 31.1.17 at about 1-30 A.M., while she was

sleeping with her sister-in-law in the same house, at that time, the accused
2

person by opening the door of the house entered into her room and touched
her different parts of her body and attempted to commit rape upon her. The
informant stated that when she and her sister-in-law made hue and cry, the
accused person threatened to kill her and left the place. The informant
further stated that the accused person on earlier occasion attempted to
commit rape of her sister-in-law. The informant also stated that the accused
person gave her obscene gesture while coming from School. The informant
prayed to investigate the case and to take action against the accused
person.

3. Based on the FIR, the police of Paglahat Watch Post gave GDE No.26
dated 2.2.17 and forwarded the FIR to O/C., Tamarhat P.S for registration of
the case. Accordingly, Tamarhat P.S Case No. 37/17 under Section
448/376/511/506 I.P.C read with section 8 of the POCSO Act was registered.
S.I. Babul Ch. Boro took the investigation of the case. During the course of
investigation, accused Mohammad Ali was arrested and was remanded him
to judicial custody. The police after investigation of the case, submitted
charge-sheet against the accused person under Section 376/506 I.P.C and
Section 8 of the POCSO Act. The learned Special Judge transferred this case
to this court for trial. The copies U/s.207 Cr.P.c were furnished to the
accused person. The charges U/s. 448 I.P.C and Sec.8 of the POCSO Act
were framed against the accused person. The charges were read over and
explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed

trial.
3
4. — The prosecution in order to establish the guilt of the accused persons
examined as many as 4 (four) witnesses including the victim. The defence
chooses not to lead any evidence. The statement of the accused person
under Section 313 CrP.C. is recorded. The accused person pleaded his
innocence.
5. Heard both sides.
6. POINS FOR DETERMINATION:-

i) Whether on 31.01.17 at about 1.30 AM at village Kachakhanachar,
the accused person criminally trespassed into the dwelling house of the
informant with an intention to commit offence of sexual assault and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 448 IPC?

ii) Whether on the same date, time and place, the accused person
committed sexual assault to the informant who was a minor and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 8 of POCSO Act ?

7. DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:-

I have gone through the evidence on record and also considered the
submissions of the learned Special Public Prosecutor and also the learned
counsel of the accused person. The charge against the accused person is
that he criminally trespassed into the house of the informant and sexually
assaulted her. The informant, PW-1, the victim in her evidence stated that
about one year ago, there was some quarrel with the family of the accused
person and at night, some unknown person threw stone on the roof of their

house. PW-1 in her cross
4
examination stated that the accused person did nothing to her and her
brother took her signature on a blank paper and she deposed earlier as
tutored by her sister-in-law. PW-2, in her evidence stated that on the date of
the incident, there was quarrel between the accused person and her
daughter-in-law. PW-2 stated that the accused person did nothing to the
informant. Both PW-3 & 4 in their evidence stated that there was some
quarrel. The evidence on record does not discloses the ingredients of
Sec.448 I.P.C and Sec.8 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, the accused person
is aquitted from the charges under Section 448 I.P.C R/W. Sec.8 of the
POCSO Act and set at liberty, forthwith.

The bail bond of the accused person shall remain in force for a period
of six months in terms of Section 437A Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this 2™ day of
March,2020.
Dictated & corrected by me

Mr. R.A. Tapadar, AJS
Special Judge, Dhubri Special Judge, Dhubri
5

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:
PW- 1 Ms. 'X'

PW-2 Anowara Bibi
PW-3 Md. Abdul Kalam
PW- 4 Md. Nowsad Ali

B. Documents Exhibited by Prosecution:-

 

Ext-1 Ejahar
Ext-2 The statement of the victim.
C. Defence Witnesses :- Nil

D. Defence Exhibit : Nil

Mr. R.A. Tapadar, AJS
Special Judge, Dhubri
