Page 1 of 18

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence
Date of examination of accused
u/s 313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

23 OF 2015

(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 2720 of
2014)

Mridul Kumar Kalita, AJS

Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“VSs-
Md. Abdul Kalam,
Son of Md. Harjat Ali
Resident of Pabhamari
Police Station — Missamari,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
03/08/2015.

07/09/2015, 06/10/2015
30/11/2015 & 07/01/2016.

25/01/2016.
05/02/2016, 26/02/2016
10/03/2016

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Smt. Dulumoni Sinha, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. On 11/11/2014, the Officer-In-charge of Missamari Police Station

received an FIR (First Information Report) from one girl, who is herein

after referred to as “the Victim’, wherein it was alleged, /nter ala, that

about five months prior to filing of FIR, the accused Md. Abdul Kalam,

by promising the victim that he will marry her, committed sexual

intercourse with her three times, as a result of which, she became

pregnant. It is also stated that in this connection, village meetings were

 
Page 2 of 18

also held, however, the accused refused to confess his guilt in the
village meetings also. The first informant has stated that the delay in
lodging the FIR was due to the promise given by the accused to marry
the victim and also due to an expectation that the matter would be

resolved in the village meeting.

Zs On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of
Missamari Police Station registered Missamari P.S. Case No. 117/15 u/s
419/376 of IPC, and entrusted Sri Ramen Borah, Sub-Inspector of Police
to investigate the case. After completion of the investigation formal
charge sheet was laid U/s 493/376(2)(i) of IPC r/w section 6 of the
POCSO Act against the accused Md. Abdul Kalam in the Court of Chief
Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur. The case was transferred to the Court of
Smt. J. Bora, Judicial Magistrate 1° Class, Sonitpur and as the charge
sheet laid under the provision of POCSO Act also, this case was sent to
this Court and a POCSO Case was registered on 23/07/2015.

3. The accused Md. Abdul Kalam appeared before this court to face
trial. After hearing the accused as well as the learned Addl. Public
Prosecutor and after going through the materials on record, charge u/s
4 of POCSO Act, 2012, was framed against the accused Md. Abdul
Kalam. The charge was read over and explained to the accused and on
being asked, he refused to plead guilty and claimed to be tried. During
trial, prosecution side examined 8 (eight) witnesses. The accused was
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. during which, he denied the truthfulness of
the testimony of the prosecution witnesses and pleaded innocence. The

accused declined to adduce any evidence in defence.
4. The point to be determined in this case is as follows:-

"Whether the accused, five months before 11/11/2014 (i.e.
the date of filing the FIR), at Pabhamari, under Missamari
police Station, committed penetrative sexual assault on
“the Victim” and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act?

 
Page 3 of 18

5. I have gone through the entire materials on record, including the
oral testimonies of the witnesses and the statement of the accused
recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C, very carefully as well as heard
argument advanced by Ld. Public Prosecutor and learned Defence

counsel, at length.

6. Let me, at the very beginning scrutinise the evidence adduced

by the prosecution witnesses.

7. P.W-1, the Medical Officer, Dr. Tutumoni Handique, has stated
that on 11-11-2014 she was posted as Medical & Health Officer-1 in the
Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at about 3.30 p.m. in
the labour room complex of KCH, she examined Musstt Aibina Khatoon,
D/O Abdul Nabed Ali of village Pabhamari, PS- Missamari, in reference
to Missamari PS case No. 117/14 u/s 419/376 of IPC on being escorted
and identified by Woman PC AB 170 Prabhabati Nazary, in presence of

GNM Jitumoni Das. On examination she found the following:

No menstruation for last five months.
Menstrual history- regular. Exposure history- present.
Identification mark — Mole on right breast.

Height — 148 cm., Weight — 42 Kg, Teeth — 7 in all four
quadrants. She was well dressed, neat and tidy with normal gait and
average built.

Per abdomonial examination :
Uterine size 24 weeks +
Fetal movement positive.
Breast examination :
Milk secretion positive.
No injury seen on her body as well as on her private parts.
Investigation reports:

1. Vaginal smear — no sperm seen done at KCH Laboratory, Lab No.
136/14

 
Page 4 of 18

2. Urine for pregnancy test — weekly positive done at Assam X-ray
Clininical Laboratory by Pathologist Dr. D.K. Mahanta. Patient ID -
22027 .

3. X-ray for determination of age :

Age of the person under investigation is below 18 years.

4. Ultra sonography of abdomen;
5. Normal intra uterine gestation done at Assam X-ray Clinincal
Laboratory by Radiologist Dr. P.K. Barman. Patient ID — AX 264.

OPINION:

1. No sign of recent sexual intercourse

2. No mark of violence in her body as well as in her private
parts.

3. Victim is pregnant of five months.
4. Actual age of the victim is below 18 years.
Ext. 1 is the Medical Report and Ext. 1(1) is her signature.

During cross-examination, the doctor has stated that she has
assessed the age of the victim as per report of the Radiologist and she
has given her opinion on the basis of clinical examination. She has

stated that the estimation of age may vary two years on either side. .

8. PW 2, Nazbina, who is the mother of the victim, has stated that
she knew the accused as he is her neighbour. The accused used to
come to her house and used to tell that he will marry her daughter
(victim). Thereafter, the accused went to Kerela. Her daughter informed
her that she was five months pregnant from the side of the accused.
After about 3 months, the accused came back from Kerela. When she
asked the accused to marry her daughter, the accused refused to do so.
Thereafter there were village meetings for about three times and there
also the accused refused to marry her daughter. Thereafter, her
daughter lodged an FIR in the Police Station. Her daughter delivered a
baby girl (presently six months of age). She is now staying with her. At
that time, the age of her daughter was about 15/16 years.

 
Page 5 of 18

During cross-examination, she has stated that the victim is the
second out of her five children. She married 20/25 years ago. Her son
was born one year after their marriage. The victim was also born after
one year of the birth of eldest son. The victim read up to class V. She
left her school one/two months before the incident. This PW has also
stated that she came to know about the pregnancy of her daughter
when it was five months. She has also stated that when the accused
was in Kerela, she called village meeting twice and when he came back
village meeting was held once. In the village meeting written
proceedings were made. In the meeting the accused has said that the
baby born to the victim is not from his side. She denied the suggestion
put by learned defence counsel that at the time of the incident, the age
of her daughter was 19/20 years and her daughter was not pregnant

from the side of the accused.

9. PW 3, Abdul Naused Ali, who is the father of the victim, has
stated that the occurrence took place about one year ago. At that time
the age of his daughter was 17 years. The accused used to come to his
house. After coming to know about pregnancy of his daughter, the
accused fled away to Chennai. His daughter told his wife about the
pregnancy from the side of accused Abdul Kalam. His wife told him
about the incident. His wife told him that his daughter had told her that
the accused had done this with a promise to marry her. He informed
about the incident to the father of the accused. His father assured that
he bring his son after one month. After one month the accused came
back, but he disowned the pregnancy of his daughter. He also refused

to marry his daughter. Later on his daughter lodged the FIR.

During her cross-examination, he stated that he married 17
years ago. He has six children. The name of his elder son is Saiful
Islam. He works at Chennai. His elder son was born one year after his
marriage. His second child who was a female was born after two years
of birth of Saiful Islam. He has also stated that his third daughter was

Aibina. She was also born after one year of the birth of second

 
Page 6 of 18

daughter. His other children were also born after the gap of one to two
years in between them. Aibina went to school and she studied upto
class V. Aibina was admitted in Phabhamari LP School when she was 9
years old. She studied for 6 years in that school. She left her school one
year before the incident. His daughter was not working in any body’s
house. The house of the accused is near his house. His wife used to
work on daily wages occasionally. He has further stated that when his
daughter was having pregnancy of about 3/ 4 months, his wife told him
about the incident. Prior to that, the accused had left away. Accused
Kalam had gone to Chennai for work earlier also. 12 days after coming
to know about the incident, he informed the matter to Kalam’s father.
The village Meeting was held in his house after two days. In that
Meeting one Matleb was President and Abdul Salam was Secretary. The

proceedings of the meeting were also prepared.

Police took his statement. He has also stated that he has not
stated before police that the accused after coming to know about the
pregnancy, fled away to Chennai. He has also stated that he has not
stated before police that “my daughter told my wife about the
pregnancy from the side of accused Abdul Kalam. My wife told me about
the incident. My wife told me that my daughter had told her that the

accused had done this with a promise to marry her’.

He was asked many other suggestive questions by learned

defence counsel, he answered all those questions in negative.

10. PW 4, the victim, has stated that she knew the accused. She
filed this case one year ago. Six months prior to filing of this case, the
accused used to come to her house and also used to tell her that the
accused loved her and he will marry her. The accused also use to come
to her house and use to do bad act with her in her house and in the
house of the brother of the accused. The accused also told her that he
will marry her and committed bad act with her. PW 4 also deposed that
2™ time the brother’s son of the accused called her to the house of his

brother Sahid Ali. At that time no one was present in the house of Sahid

 
Page 7 of 18

Ali. At that time she was wearing Churidar semis etc. The accused took
her to the kitchen. The accused removed her clothes and also removed
his clothes and committed bad act on her. She protested, but the
accused committed bad act on her saying that he will marry her. It was
night. She stayed there for one hour. House of Sahid Ali is near her
house. She did not tell anybody about the incident. She only told about
the incident to Yasin, who is her uncle’s daughter. After coming to know
that she is pregnant, she told about the incident to her mother. After
about three days of the incident, the accused went to Kerela. Before
going to Kerela, the accused told before her that he will marry her after
coming back from Kerela. Her father told about this incident to the
father of the accused. The father of the accused called the village
meeting. After village meeting, about 8 days after that, the accused
came from Kerela. In the village meeting the accused told that he only
hold her hand and did not commit any bad acts with her. Thereafter,
she lodged an FIR in Missamari Police Station. As per her instruction,
one person wrote the FIR. She has exhibited the FIR as Ext. 2 and Ext.
2(1) is her signature. Police sent her for medical examination and she
was brought to Court for recording her statement. She gave her

statement to the Magistrate.

During her cross-examination, she stated that she studied up to
class V in Pabhamari Primary School and she do not know the date of
her birth. She has also stated that he failed for two years and her elder
brother one year older than her and has two children. She has also
stated that the house of Aijul Islam and Hanif are there near their
house, however, they have not seen the accused Abdul Kalam coming
to her house. She has also stated that when Kalam took her to his
brother’s house, only her sister Ruksana was in her house and she did
not told Ruksana where she was going. She has also stated that the
accused Kalam did bad acts on her for about one hour. She has also
stated that she did not inform her neighbours that the accused
committed bad acts on her. She has also stated that the accused

removed her clothes and her clothes were torn when the accused

 
Page 8 of 18

committed bad acts on her. She has also stated that when she did not
had her monthly periods she told her cousin sister Yashin about it. She
has also stated that she has delivered a female child five months ago
(prior to her deposition). She was asked many other suggestive
questions by learned counsel for the defence which were all answered in
negative by her. She has admitted that she has not informed police
about the fact that she informed about the incident to her cousin sister

Yashin.

11. PW 5, Abdul Rahman, has stated that he knew both the accused
and the victim. One day the father of the victim came to his house and
called him to attend the meeting in his house on that day. He went to
the meeting and in the meeting he came to know that the victim
became pregnant from the side of the accused. He has no personal
knowledge about the incident. The accused stayed near the house of
the victim. The meeting was held once more after three days. In that
meeting the accused was present. In the meeting, the victim alleged

that she was pregnant from the side of the accused, but he denied it.

12. During cross-examination, this PW has stated that he has no
personal knowledge as to how and from whom the victim became

pregnant.

13. PW 6, Saiful Islam, has stated that he knew the accused and the
victim is his sister. At the time of the incident, he was in Kerala. After
coming back, he came to know that his sister is pregnant from the side
of the accused Abdul Kalam. His sister lodged the FIR.

14. During cross-examination, this PW has stated that he was in
Kerala for eight months. When he went to Kerala his sister was not
pregnant and he has no personal knowledge as to how and from whom

the victim became pregnant.

15. PW, Rahila Khatoon, has stated that she knew the accused and

the victim is her sister-in-law. Accused used to come to the house of the

victim. She does not know what they used to talk. Her sister-in-law told

 
Page 9 of 18

her that she had love affair with the accused and she is pregnant from

the side of the accused Abdul Kalam.

16. During cross-examination, this PW has stated that she was
married seven years ago. Victim lived in her house. The victim informed
her about the incident after the village meeting. Before that she did not
know about the incident. Her husband and the accused stayed in Kerala.

The accused also used to visit their house like other villagers.

17. PW68, Sri Ramen Borah, S.I. of Police, has stated that on 11-11-
2014 he was posted at Missamari Police Station as Attached Officer. On
that day, SI Nurul Hussain, O/C of Missamari Police Station received an
FIR from one victim and O/C SI Nurul Hussain registered a case being
Missamari PS Case No. 117/2014 u/s 419/376 of IPC and endorsed him
to investigate the case. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext. 2(2) is the signature
of SI Nurul Hussain, O/C of Missamari Police Station which is known to
him. On being endorsed him for investigation of this case, he went to
the place of occurrence at Pabhamari near the house of Md. Abdul
Kalam. He drew the sketch map of the place of occurrence which is
exhibited as Ext. 3 and Ext. 3(1) is his signature. He also recorded the
statement of the victim at the Police Station. He also recorded the
statement of witnesses. On 12-11-2014 he sent the victim for medical
examination and recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On 11-11-
2014 he arrested the accused person and on the next day he was
produced before the Court. Lateron, after completion of investigation,
he laid the chargesheet against the accused Md. Abdul Kalam u/s
493/376(2) (i) of IPC read with Section 6 of POCSO Act. Ext. 4 is the

charge-sheet and Ext. 4(1) is his signature.

During cross-examination, the I.0. has stated that the victim
showed the Place of occurrence at “Bahoni bari” (bamboo bush). As per
FIR, the incident occurred five months prior to lodging of the FIR. In the
FIR which is exhibited as Ext. 2, the name of the scribe is mentioned on
the back side. At the first instance, the case was registered u/s
419/376 of IPC.

 
Page 10 of 18

During cross-examination, the I.0. has stated that the witness
Nousad Ali did not stated before him during investigation that when he
informed about the incident to the father of the accused, accused’s
father assured him that he will bring his son after one month and after
one month the accused came back but disowned the pregnancy of
Nousad’s daughter. The I.O. has also stated that the victim Aibina did
not state before him during investigation that the accused took her to
the house of his brother at night. Victim Aibina also did not stated
before him during investigation that she has informed about the incident
to her cousin sister Yasmin. Victim Aibina aslo did not stated before him
during investigation that accused Kalam has stated before the village
meeting that he only held her hands. Witness Abdul Rahman did not
stated before him during investigation that the meeting was held on

three occasions.

He denied the suggestion put by learned defence counsel that he
has not investigated this case properly and wrongly laid the charge-

sheet against the accused.

18. During examination under section 313 Cr.P.C the accused
pleaded his innocence and has stated that victim accompanied him on

her own and she has lodged false case against him.

19. The Offence under section 4 of the Protection of Child from
Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act deals with punishment for penetrative
sexual assault and Section 3 of the POCSO Act defines penetrative
sexual assault. The offence of penetrative sexual assault under POCSO
Act and for that matter other offences also under this Act can be
committed only on a child. The definition of child u/s 2 (d) of the POCSO

Act is as follows :-

“Child” means any person below the age of 18

years.

Thus, a person can be convicted for an offence under POCSO Act

only if the victim is below the age of 18 years. In the instant case, let us

 
Page 11 of 18

see as to whether the victim was a child, at the time of commission of

offence, or not.

20. In the instant case, if we peruse the testimony of the witnesses,
it appears that the Doctor, who examined the witness on, 11-11-2014,
found that the victim was less than eighteen years of age on the date of
examination. Her examination was based on the radiological reports of
the victim. Hon’ble Supreme Court of India dealing with a case were
question of determination of the age was involved observed that: - “one
can take judicial notice that the margin of error in age
ascertained by radiological examination is 2 years on either
side." Though, the Doctor, has stated during cross-examination that
the estimation of age on the basis of radiological examination may vary
two years on the either side, however, it is to be noted that the Doctor
has not estimated a specific age of the victim from which two years
addition or two year subtraction could have been done, she has only
observed that the age of the victim is less than eighteen years on the
date of the examination. Otherwise also, in view of the aforesaid
observation of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, it appears that the
testimony of Doctor, as regards assessment of the age, is not the
conclusive evidence and for coming to a conclusion, as regards the age
of the victim, other materials on records has to be taken into
consideration. In the instant case when the victim was examined under
section 164 Cr.P.C, on 12/11/2014, she deposed her age to be eighteen
years. Admittedly, the incident occurred much before her examination
and thus if her statement is to be believed, she was less than eighteen
years at the time of alleged offence. Learned counsel for the accused
has submitted that the mother of the victim, who deposed before this
court as PW 2, has stated that she was married 20/25 years ago and the
victim was born after one year of birth of her eldest son, who was born
after one year of her marriage. She has submitted that as the victim
was the second child of the PW 2 and from her own testimony, it
appears that she was born within 2 years of her marriage, so if her

marriage was held 25 years ago, the victim apparently has to be major.

 
Page 12 of 18

However, if we peruse the testimony of PW 2 it appears that she has
only stated that her marriage was held 20/25 years ago that means that
it could be either 20 years or 25 years or anytime in this range. When
we look at the testimony of PW 2, who is the mother of the victim, we
cannot ignore the testimony of PW 3 who is the father of the victim who
has categorically stated that his daughter was 17 years of age when the
incident occurred. He has also stated that the victim is his third child
and after the birth of elder son one another daughter was born who
died and only after the death of second child, the victim was born. Thus,
if we take into consideration the testimony of parents of the victim it
cannot be said that they have admitted that the victim was major,
rahter it appears that they have deposed that the victim was minor
when the alleged offence was committed. This court is also of
considered opinion that if benefit of doubt of variation of two years in
estimation of age on the basis of the Radiological report by Doctor is
given to the accused in POCSO cases, no child who do not have a birth
certificate and who is above the age of 16 years will get justice under
the Provisions of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.
Under Section 34 (2) of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012, if any question arises in any proceeding before the Special
Court as to whether a person is a child or not, such question shall be
determined by the Special Court and after satisfying itself about the age
of such person and it shall record in writing it’s reason for such
determination. Therefore, it is for this Court to ascertain as to whether

the victim was child or not.

Looking at the entire evidence on record as regards the age of
the victim, if we consider the testimony of victim who deposed as PW 4,
her parents who deposed as PW 2 and 3 and the Doctor who deposed
as PW 1, this Court is of considered opinion that the materials on record
clearly suggests that the age of the victim was less than 18 years on the
date of the alleged offence and therefore, she can be regarded as the
child within the meaning of Section 2(d) of the Protection of Child from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

 
Page 13 of 18

21. From the evidence on record as discussed above, it appears
that the victim had love affairs with the accused. However, the fact that
she was a child during that period cannot be ignored. She has very
categorically stated that the accused did bad acts with her and as a
result of which she became pregnant. Learned counsel for the defence
has submitted that u/s 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012, the punishment prescribed is for penetrative sexual assault
and the evidence has to be very clear as regards the ingredients of the
said offence. She has also stated that by merely stating that the accused
has committed bad acts with the victim is not sufficient for convicting
the accused u/s 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act,
2012. Though there are rulings of Hon’ble Gauhati High Court wherein it
has been observed that when a major girl is testifying before a Court it
is not sufficient to state that the accused has committed bad acts, she
has to specifically narrate as to what bad acts were done with her.
However, this Court cannot ignore the fact that this Court is dealing with
a minor victim. The victim before this Court is a child, it is not expected
from a child that she will narrate the entire act of the sexual intercourse
in detail as stated by learned counsel for the defence. It is also apparent
that the PW 4 while deposing before this Court has also stated that the
accused did bad acts with her on more than one occasion and on one
occasion she was taken to the kitchen where the accused removed her
clothes and then he removed his clothes and committed bad acts. The
phrase "bad acts” as used by victim in the instant case, if we consider it
in relation to her other statements where she has stated that she
became pregnant and ultimately delivered a girl child will only lead to a

conclusion that she meant sexual intercourse by the phrase "bad acts”.

22. Learned counsel for the accused has also submitted that from
the testimony of the victim, it appears that she never shouted or made
any hue and cry if the accused had committed any bad acts on her.
Learned counsel has also submitted that if anything has happened, the

victim is a consenting party to the act. However, u/s 4 of the Protection

of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 consent is an immaterial

 
Page 14 of 18

consideration as consent is not an ingredient of offence as defined in
Section 3 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. For
the sake of convenience, Section 3 of the Protection of Child from

Sexual Offences Act, 2012 is quoted herein below:-

“3. Penetrative sexual assault. - A person is

said to commit “penetrative sexual assault” if —

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent,
into the vagina, mouth, urethra or
anus of a child or makes the child to do

so with him or any other person, or

From above, it appears that mere penetration is enough to
constitute of an offence of penetrative sexual intercourse against a child

and consent is immaterial for commission of the said offence.

23. Learned counsel for the defence has also submitted that there is
considerable delay in lodging the FIR by the victim which itself creates
doubt on the veracity of the prosecution story. However, it appears from
the evidence on record that the accused promised to marry the victim
and it is only after detection of the pregnancy of the victim, he retracted
from his promise and in this regard various village meetings were held.
The delay in lodging the FIR was due to an expectation that the accused
would marry the victim and some solution will come out in village
meetings and same can be regarded as a reasonable cause for delay in
lodging the FIR. From the testimony of PW 2 i.e. the mother of the
victim, it appears that ultimately the victim delivered a girl child. The
victim is admittedly an unmarried girl, so the circumstances in which an
unmarried girl delivered a baby cannot be regarded as a normal
circumstance and this fact cannot be ignored by this Court that it is only
on failure of the village meetings to resolve the dispute, the FIR was
lodged and therefore, merely on account of delay in registration of the

FIR, the story of the victim cannot be doubted.

 
Page 15 of 18

Learned counsel for the defence has also stated that the I.0. of
this case, has stated during his deposition that the victim has stated
before him that the place of occurrence of offence was a “Bahoni Bari”
(bamboo bush) and therefore there is a contradiction as regards the
place of occurrence of offence itself. However, from the testimony of the
victim, it appears that the accused committed bad acts, by which she
means sexual intercourse, on more than one occasion. This is not a case
where the offence was committed only once but it was repeated many
times on the false promise of marriage given by the accused to the child

victim.

23. In the instant case, as this Court has held that the victim was a
child when the offence was committed, though the act may have been
consensual between the accused and the victim, however, the consent
was immaterial as this offence was under Section 4 of the Protection of
Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and otherwise also the consent
obtained by giving false promise of marriage by the accused. If a child is
subjected to penetrative sexual assault then even if there was consent,
even if the child was having love affairs with the accused are immaterial
facts and if the Court comes to the conclusion that there was
penetrative sexual assault within the meaning of section 3 of the
Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, there is no escape
from the conclusion that the accused has committed an offence
punishable u/s 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act,
2012.

24. For the reasons stated above, accused Md. Abdul Kalam is
hereby convicted of offence punishable u/s 4 of the Protection of Child
from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

25. Heard the accused person in person on the question of sentence.
Also heard learned Public Prosecutor and the learned defence counsel on
the question of sentence. The accused has stated that he has not
committed any offence. He has further stated that he is the earning

member of his family and his blind father, unmarried elder sister are

 
Page 16 of 18

dependent on his earning and therefore, a lenient view of the matter
may be taken. The offence u/s 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012, prescribes the minimum punishment of 7 (seven)
years, the Court is of considered opinion that the penal provisions of
Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 are very stringent in
nature. Almost all the penal provisions prescribe the minimum sentence
which shall have to be imposed in case a person is found guilty. Under
such circumstances, this Court do not have any jurisdiction or discretion
to impose a lesser sentence than the minimum sentence as prescribed
by the statute. Considering entire aspects of this case, I sentence the
convicted accused, Md. Abdul Kalam to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment
for 7 (seven) years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1000/- (Rupees one
thousand only) in default to undergo further Simple Imprisonment for 1
(one) month under Section 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

The period of detention already under gone, by the accused shall

be set off from the sentence imposed.

26. In the instant case the victim, who is a child suffered from
pregnancy on false promise of marriage and she actually delivered a girl
child. She remained unmarried. The facts and circumstances of this case
show that the victim is dependent on her parent and now she has also to
undergo various rigours of being an unmarried child maternity. The facts
and circumstances justify allocation of compensation to the victim of this
case. Therefore, it is hereby, recommended u/s 357-A Cr.P.C. that the
District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur, shall give appropriate
compensation to the victim within two months of the date of receipt of
this Judgment by the District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur.
However, in interim, District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur, shall pay
an amount of Rs.25,000/- (Rupees Twenty five thousand only) to the
victim within a period of one month from the date of receipt of the
Judgment which shall be adjusted against the final quantum of

compensation decided by the District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur.

 
Page 17 of 18

27. The accused/convict has been informed about his right to appeal

against this judgment before the Hon’ble Gauhati High Court.

28. Let a copy of this Judgment be given free of cost to convicted
accused immediately. Let also a copy of this order be forwarded to the

District Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 10” day
of March, 2016.

(Mridul Kumar Kalita)
Special Judge
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Mridul Kumar Kalita)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
Page 18 of 18

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

1. | Prosecution Witness No.1 = Dr. Tutumoni Handique,M.O.

2. Prosecution Witness No.2 i Nazbina

3. Prosecution Witness No.3 i= Abdul Naosed Ali

4. Prosecution Witness No.4 ‘ Victim

5. Prosecution Witness No.5 = Abdul Rahman

6. Prosecution Witness No.6 * Saiful Islam

7. Prosecution Witness No.7 “ Rahila Khatoon

8. Prosecution Witness No.8 = Sri Ramen Borah, I.O.
EXHIBITS.

Exhibit 1 - Medical report

Exhibit 1(1) '- Signatures of the M.O.

Exhibit 2 x FIR

Exhibit 2(1) - Signature of the victim

Ext. 3 '- Sketch map

Ext. 3(1) "- Signature of the I.0O.

Exhibit 4 - Charge-sheet.

Exhibit 4(1) - Signature of the I.O.

(M. K. Kalita)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
