SplI.(POCSO) Case No.15/17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE ti: srs:: CACHAR,SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.15 of 2017

(U/S 342 / 363 IPC and Sec. 5(m_) punishable under section 18 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,

Special Judge,

 

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......cccccccsseecccccssssaessseeesssseeees Complainant.
-Versus-

Sahajahan Islam Laskar alias Suman...............66 Accused.

Charge framed On tm........cccceccceeceesstseeeeeessseeeeessseees 1.12.18

P.WS. GXAMINEC ON!-...... ee eeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeees 17.2.20

Argument heard On! .....ccecceceesesteeeeeeeesseesseeeeeeens 17.2.20.

Judgment pronounced and delivered on:-...........068 17.2.20.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : MrF.R.Barbhuiya, Id. Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an

FIR with the I/C of Lakhipur PS stating the facts that on 1.05.17 at about
5 p.m. the minor daughter ( name withheld ) of the informant returned
home on weeping and on query she reported in absence of the informant
and her husband the accused called her in his house and tried to commit
rape on her and as a result the victim daughter of the informant sustained

injuries on different part of her body.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.15/17

2 On receipt of the FIR, O/C, Lakhipur PS registered a regular PS
case vide Lakhipur P.S. Case No.83 of 2017 U/S 342/363 IPC R/W Section
4 of POCSO Act. Police started investigation and during the course of
investigation the statement of the victim girl was recorded U/S 164 CrP.C.
The investigating officer visited the place of occurrence and prepared a
rough sketch map etc. and subsequently after completion of investigation
submitted charge sheet against accused U/S 342/363 IPC r/w section 4 of
POCSO Act.

3. The offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act of the case being exclusively
triable by the Court of Special Judge, this case was taken up for trial after
filing of the charge sheet. In due course, upon appearance of the accused
and after hearing both sides formal charge U/S 342/363 of IPC and Section
5(m) punishable under section 18 Act was framed by this court against the
accused person. The charges having been read over and explained the
accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(i) Whether on 01.05.17 at about 5-30 p.m. the accused person
wrongfully confined the victim daughter of the informant in his house in
order to commit rape upon her, as alleged ?

( ii ) Whether the accused kidnapped the minor daughter of
the informant from the lawful guardianship, as alleged?

(iii) Whether the accused person committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim, as alleged ?

5. Prosecution side examined as many as 2 witnesses i.e., the
victim and the informant as PW.1 and PW.2 respectively. On the submission
of the Id. Special P.P. the evidence for the prosecution side is closed. As no
incriminating materials appears to be found against the accused during

evidence the recording of statement of the accused U/S
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.15/17

313 CrP.C. is dispensed with.
6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have
also heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF
7. Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused

person as mentioned in points for determination.

8. PW.1 is the victim who is the prime witness of this case and after
examining the witness with the certain questions she is found to be
competent witness and capable of answering rationally and as such her

statement was recorded without taking oath in camera.

9. PW.1, the victim, stated in her statement that at the time of
occurrence she was a student of class I at Tractor tilla School and her
mother went to jungle to collect firewood and then she went to the house of
the accused Suman to play with the son of the accused. She further stated
that during playing the son of the accused Suman assaulted her with a lathi
on her head and she sustained bleeding injuries and she returned her home
on crying and told them that son of the accused had assaulted her with a
lathi and her parents took her to a doctor who treated her. She also stated
that her mother lodged the case and Police sent her to SMCH, Silchar
where her medical examination was done and thereafter she was brought to

the Court where her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded.

She stated in her cross examination that the house of the accused is
contiguous to their house and the accused is having his parents, wife and
children. She also stated that she stated before the Magistrate that the son

of the accused Suman had assaulted her with a lathi on her head.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.15/17

10.  PW.2, Lakhi Rikiason, the informant of this case deposed in her
evidence that the occurrence took place about two years ago. At that time
she along with her husband went to jungle for collecting firewood keeping
their victim daughter at home. She further deposed that her victim daughter
went to the house of the accused Suman and was playing with his son and
returning home at about 5 PM PW.2 saw that her victim daughter was crying
and on being asked, victim did not tell her anything at that moment. She
also deposed that she informed the matter to neighbours who took her to
Lakhipur PS and got an FIR written wherein her thumb impression was
taken. Police sent her daughter to SMCH, Silchar where her medical
examination was done. Police brought her and victim to the Court wherein
their statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C were recorded. She further deposed that
later on, her victim daughter told her that when she was playing, the son of
the accused had assaulted her by means of a lathi on her head. She also
stated that at the time of occurrence, the age of victim was 7 years and

was studying in class I at Tractor tilla.

She stated in her cross examination that the house of the accused is
adjacent to their home. She also stated that when she was brought to the
Court for recording statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. the villagers were present
along with her and she gave statement before Magistrate as tutored by the
villagers and she does not remember the contents of the statement made

before the Magistrate.

11. So, from the statement of prime witness i.e. the victim PW.1 it
appears that at the relevant time she went to house of the accused to play
with the son of the accused and the son of the accused in course of playing
assaulted her with a lathi and thereafter the informant lodged the case

against the accused. PW.2 the informant also stated the same facts that
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.15/17

victim went to the house of accused and was playing with his son and after
returning as the PW.2 found the victim crying she informed the matter to
the neighbors who took her to PS and got an FIR written and later on victim
reported her that the son of the accused had assaulted her by means of a
lathi.

12. So, from the above analysis of the statement of the victim and
the evidence of the informant it appears that they did not at all implicate the
accused in the alleged offence of crime. In view of the above for non
implication of the accused by the prime witnesses i.e. the victim and the

informant , the accused deserves to be acquitted.

12. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/S 342 / 363 IPC and
Sec. 5(m_) punishable under section 18 of POCSO Act.

13. In the result, accused person is not held guilty and stand

acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty forthwith.
Bail bonds stand discharged.
Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on

this the 17" day of February, 2020.

Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee, Stenographer Gr. I
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.15/17

 

Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 15 of 2017.
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — victim
PW. 2 — Lakhi Rikiason.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - _—NNIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - NIL.

Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.
