 

qe”
special

Judge.
con Kalaigaon

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE —osizz:tzz:: ~~» CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

ecial (P se No. 41(RKT)/2018
U/S 8 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Vs.

Sri Gautam Talukdar —............ Accused

PRESENT: — Sri D.J. Mahanta,

Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.
ADVOCATES APPEARED;
For the State ’ Sti D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor
For the accused ’ Sri NI. Siddique, Ld. Advocate
Date of evidence : 31.07.18, 01.08.18, 02.08.18

Date of Argument _—_: 16.08.2018
Date of Judgment __: 16.08.2018

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in brief is that on 26.03.2018, the
informant Smt. Kamala Narzary lodged an FIR before the I/C, Bengtol Police
Out Post alleging that on 24.03.2018 at about 10.30 p.m., while Miss ‘xX’
(name is withheld), the minor daughter of the informant was returning from
the Bashanti Puja held at Durgapur and coming towards the house of her
sister Bharati Islary, on the way, the accused Gautam Talukdar grabbed her
and took her to unseen place and molested her and tried to commit rape
upon her. It is alleged that though the victim tried to raise hue and cry, but
she could not do so and after few minute, a group of persons reached the

spot and saved her.
pe

Special Judge.
Chirang, Kajalgaon

2. After the receipt of the FIR, the I/C, Bengtol Police Out Post
made Bengtol O.P. GDE No. 696 dtd. 26.03.18, the I/C himself took up the
investigation of the case and forwarded the FIR to the O/C, Runikhata Police
Station for registering a case. The O/C, Runikhata P.S. accordingly registered
a case being numbered as Runikhata P.S. Case No. 14/2018 U/S 8 of POCSO
Act. Accordingly, the I.0. arrested the accused, visited the place of
occurrence, drew sketch map of the P.O., recorded the statement of the
witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got recorded her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C and after completion of investigation, submitted
charge-sheet against the accused person, namely, Gautam Talukdar U/S 8 of
POCSO Act.

a After receiving charge-sheet, copies of relevant documents were
furnished to the accused person. Accused person was produced before the
court from jail. On perusal of entire materials on record and hearing both
sides on point of consideration of charge and after having found a prima facie
case, formal charge was framed U/S 8 of POCSO Act against accused Gautam
Talukdar. Charge was read over and explained to the accused person to which
he denied to plead guilty.

4. In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as 8
(eight) witnesses including the 1.0. and M.O.

Following witnesses were examined:-

(1) Victim Miss X (name is withheld) as PW 1
(2) Smt. Kamala Narzary as PW 2

(3) Smt. Bishmita Boro as PW 3

(4) Sri Paban Dey as PW 4

(5) Dr. Meena Hazarika (M.O.) as PW 5

(6) Sri Swmdwn Owary as PW 6

(7) Sri Sushil Islary as PW 7

(8) SI Lakshman Kumar Das (1.0.) as PW 8
5. Medical report was exhibited as Ext.1. Radiological report was
exhibited as Ext.2. FIR was exhibited as Ext.3. Sketch map was exhibited as
Ext.4 and charge-sheet was exhibited as Ext.5.

6. Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.
te Heard argument from both sides.
8. POINT FOR CONSIDERATION:-

For the offence U/S 8 of POCSO Act

1. Whether on 24.03.2018, at about 10.30 p.m., at Durgapur
under Runikhata P.S., the accused committed sexual assault on
Miss X° (name is withheld), minor daughter of the informant?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

9. Now, I want to scrutinize the prosecution evidence on record to
prove the case U/S 8 of POCSO Act.

10. It was alleged in the FIR that when victim was returning from
Bashanti Puja, on the way, an unknown person hugged her from backside and
he touched her breast and her private parts. In the meantime, some persons

came to the spot. As a result, the person failed to perform any other illicit act.

11. The victim was examined as PW 1. She stated her age as 18
years. According to victim, she was reading up to Class IV. She deposed that
occurrence took place at night at about 10/10.30 p.m. At that time she was
returning from Bashanti Puja. She deposed that she did not know the accused
person at the time of occurrence. When she was returning, the accused
hugged her and gagged and pulled her to nearby jungle, surrounded by
bamboo groves. He touched her breast and private parts. He also tried to
commit sexual intercourse but then two persons came to the spot. After that,
she fled away. She immediately reached her home but did not report the
matter to anybody. Later on, she reported her related sister Bharati. The

victim further deposed that at that time, she was residing in the house of
ne

\e

al Judge.
Chirang. Kalaigaon

Bharati as maid. She went to enjoy the ‘Puja’ along with own sister of Bharati
but she returned alone. The sister of Bharati reported the matter to her
mother. When her mother came to the house of Bharati, then victim told her
about the incident. She stated that at the time of investigation, she was taken
to the Court for recording her statement. She gave statement before the
police and Magistrate. During the cross-examination, it is found that when she
and accused were proceeding to nearby field, two persons followed them.
They came to the spot with help of torch light and one of them gave a slap to
the accused. It is revealed from the cross-examination of PW 1 that the
person who gave slap to the accused was nothing but his own brother. It is
also revealed that accused was often seen by the PW 1 prior to the incident,
She knew that accused belonged to Rajbongshi community. She further knew
that accused was unemployed. The PW 1 stated that as tutored by her
mother, she told before police that at the time of occurrence, her age was 14
years. She further deposed that actually she did not visit any school but as her
mother told that she was reading up to Class IV, therefore, she stated before
this Court that she was reading up to Class IV. According to P.W.1 at the time
of investigation, she gave statement before the Magistrate as tutored by her
mother and she gave statement before the police as tutored by members of
ABSU. She further deposed that this case was lodged according to advice of
the members of ABSU organization.

12. After going through the entire evidence of PW 1, it is found
that victim knew the accused prior to the incident and she went with the
accused but when other persons came to the spot, she fled away. She did not
report anything immediately after the incident to the family members of
Bharati in whose home she was residing. She did not make any complaint
against the accused to the persons who were following them and caught them
within the jungle surrounded by bamboo groves. Age was also not ascertained
by the victim because she had no knowledge about her own age. As tutored
by her mother and ABSU, she stated different statements before different
authority. I have given judicial notice to the statement of the victim recorded
U/S 164 Cr.P.C in which she stated that she was returning from village along

with some other women. This fact was not stated by her before this Court.
ad”

Special Judge
Chirang, Kajalgaon

13, PW 2 is the mother of the victim. She was informed about the
incident by the family members of Bharati Islary in whose house victim was
residing as maid at that time. She came to the house of Bharati and on the
way, she heard from the ABSU members that accused tried to commit sexual
intercourse with her daughter. She deposed that after that she met her
daughter and she also reported same facts. On the other hand, two ABSU
members were examined as PW 6 and PW 7, They deposed that they heard
about the incident from the PW 2. Learned defence counsel, during the cross-
examination of PW 2, pointed out that she did not state before the I.0. that
she heard about the incident from his daughter. The I.0. was examined as PW
8. He confirmed that PW 2 did not state before him that she had heard from

the victim directly about the alleged incident.

14, PW 3 is a woman police constable, who translated the version
of PW 2 to the police officer because PW 2 stated the facts in Bodo language

and police officer did not know the language.

15. PW 4 is the material witness Sri Paban Dey. He witnessed the
occurrence. According to PW 4, at the time of occurrence, age of the victim
was about 17 years. Victim was residing in the house of one Bharati Islary as
maid. House of accused is situated within the range of half kilometer from the
house of Bharati Islary. He deposed that on the date of occurrence, Bashanti
Puja was going on at Durgapur area. He also present at ‘Puja’ fair. At about
10.00 p.m., he along with his mother, wife and sister-in-law were returning to
their home. On the way, he noticed that the accused called the victim, the
latter (PW1), also followed the accused. Then PW 4 informed the brother of
the accused, namely, Sesha Talukdar and one Samit Sarkar and some other
persons. He immediately went to his home and took a torchlight. All of them
followed the accused and victim. Both accused and victim were making
conversation near bamboo groves. They immediately apprehended the
accused and handed over him to his brother. In the meantime, victim fled
away from the place of occurrence. He further deposed that after the incident,
Bharati Islary drove away the victim from her house. According to PW 4, when
he reached the spot he saw that accused and victim were standing separately.

Nothing was seen by him as alleged by the victim. During the cross-
examination, this witness clearly stated that when accused and victim were
moving to the field, they were also following them. According to PW 4, brother
of the accused gave a slap to him. At that moment, victim fled away. She did
not state anything to them. This witness further deposed that due to advice of
ABSU members, mother of the victim lodged the FIR. Actually nothing was
happened as alleged in the FIR. He further admitted that there might be some

relationship between the accused and victim.

16. PW 5 is the Medical Officer, who examined the victim.
According to the Medical Officer, the age of the victim was above 15 years but

below 18 years.

17. PW 8 is the Investigating Officer, who deposed that on
26.03.18 he was serving as I/C, Bengtol O.P. On that day, informant Kamala
Narzary, the PW 2 lodged an FIR. After receiving the FIR, he sent the same to
Runikhata P.S. and he started investigation by making GD Entry No. 696 dtd.
26.03.18. He examined the victim and informant. As the victim and informant
could not speak in Assamese language, hence, WPC Bishmita Boro translated
their statements from Boro language to Assamese language as interpreter. He
collected the medical examination report of the victim. He sent the victim to
the Court for recording her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. He also recorded
statement of other witnesses and drew sketch map. During the cross-
examination, PW 8 stated that the place of occurrence was not identified by
the victim. One Anima Basumatary and Johnpal Basumatary identified the P.O.
those persons did not witness the occurrence. According to PW 8, Paban Dey,
PW 4 witnessed the occurrence. He did not examine other boys who
accompanied Paban and apprehended the accused and victim. He confirmed
during his cross examination that PW 1 did not state before him that accused

had attempted to commit sexual intercourse with her.

18. After going through the entire evidence on record, I have found
that victim is not a reliable witness. Her age was also not ascertained. It is
alleged that accused touched her breast and her private part but this fact was
not supported by eyewitness, PW 4. According to eye witness PW 4, both the

accused and victim were making conversation and they were standing
\o
Qe

Special Judge.
Chirang, Kajalga

separately. According to PW 1, case was lodged as per advice of the members
of the ABSU. P.W.4 also supported this fact. PW 2 stated that he heard about
the incident from the members of ABSU i.e. PW 6 and PW 7 but both the PW
6 and PW 7 stated that they first heard about the incident from the PW 2, the
informant. It is also found from the evidence of PW 1 that she was tutored by
her mother, PW 6 and PW 7. It is also found from her evidence that she knew
the accused prior to the incident. According to PW 4, victim followed the
accused and did not make any hue and cry. It is also admitted by PW 1 that
she immediately did not inform about the misdeed allegedly committed by
accused to the persons who caught the accused and the family members of
Bharati Islary. PW 4 stated that after the incident victim was driven away from
the house of Bharati Islary. This conduct of Bharati Islary revealed that the
victim with consent went to the place of occurrence along with the accused.
When brother of the accused and PW 4 and other persons caught them, then
she immediately fled away. So, her allegation is doubtful. According to her
own statement, FIR was lodged as per advice of ABSU members. According to
eyewitness nothing was happened and this case was lodged according to
advice of the ABSU. The prosecution failed to establish the case as narrated in
the FIR. The victim is found as wholly unreliable witness. Informant did not
know about the incident. According to her, she was informed by the members
of ABSU. The victim stated different story before different authority. In her
initial statement before Magistrate, she stated that she was returning along
with some other women. In her later deposition, she deposed that she was
returning alone. She also gave false statement regarding her age as well as
her educational qualification. She stated that as her mother advised for which
she deposed before this Court that she was reading up to Class IV. Her age
was also stated as tutored by her mother without any basis. The medical
evidence was scanty regarding the actual age of the victim. According to
medical evidence, her age was above 15 years but below 18 years. If I believe
the statement of independent witness, PW 4, who followed the accused and
victim from the very beginning, then I have found that the story narrated by
PW 1 is nothing but concocted one. So, point mentioned above is remained as

not proved. Accused is not found guilty.
ORDER

19, Prosecution failed to prove the case U/S 8 of POCSO Act
against accused Gautam Talukdar. Accused is acquitted and set at liberty.
Accused is directed to furnish bail bond of Rs. 10,000/- with one suitable
surety of the like amount for a period of six months as required U/S 437(A)
Cr.P.C. It is found from the record that accused is in jail. Therefore, jail
authority is directed to release the accused forthwith if he is not required in

any other case, subject to submission of bail bond.

20. A copy of the Judgment shall be given to the District
Magistrate, Chirang for information.

21. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 16" day
of August, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

hed yo Wag Lee

D.J. Mahanta)

Sela Judge,

fT}
Dictated and corrected by me, Nirang,

QO
(Pe
(D.J. Mahanta)

Spools Judge,
oj eo gaon

——

KK KK
APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Victim Miss X (name is withheld)
PW 2 — Smt. Kamala Narzary

PW 3 — Smt. Bishmita Boro

PW 4 -— Sri Paban Dey

PW 5 — Dr. Meena Hazarika (M.O.)

PW 6 — Sri Swmdwn Owary

PW 7 — Sri Sushil Islary

PW 8 — SI Lakshman Kumar Das (1.0.)

Prosecution Exhibit :

Ext-1 Medical report
Ext-2 Radiological report
Ext-3 FIR

Ext-4 Sketch map

Ext-5 Charge-sheet

Material Exhibit (Prosecution):
Defence Witness:

Nil

Defence Exhibit:

Nil

had?

(D.J. Mahanta)

Special Judge,
Snecial
Chirang.

—_—
