IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE (POCSO): KAMRUP(M),
AT GUWAHATI

SESSIONS CASE NO.36/2018

(Under Section 12 of the POCSO Act, 2012)

Present: S.P. Moitra,
Special Judge
Kamrup(M), Guwahati

State of Assam
-Vs —_
Srimanta Talukdar
nneeninnnes Accused Person

Appearance for the Parties:

For the State : Smt. Deepa Bezbaruah

beeeeeeeeees Learned Special Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Sri A.M Bora, Sri A Choudhury, Sri D Gogoi,
Sri D.K Baishya, Sri R Barthakur

beceuucecaueeaueeeaeens Learned Advocates

Date of recording evidence : 21.08.2018
Date of Argument : 03.10.2018
Date of Judgment : 6.10.2018

JUDGMENT

1. Brief facts of the case of the prosecution are that on 26.08.2017, the
Child Line Guwahati informed Geetanagar P.S that one minor girl is engaged

as child labour in the house of accused Srimanta Talukdar of Ambikagiri
5.

Nagar under Geetanagar P.S. Accordingly, the informant with the help of
Child Line staff recovered the said child victim and handed over her to Child
Line Guwahati. The child victim was aged about 16 years and she stated that
she was sexually abused by the keeper Srimanta Talukdar at the time of

staying in his house.

On the basis of the said FIR, Geetanagar P.S Case No.336/17 was
registered u/s 12 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and was taken up for investigation.
During investigation of the case, the statement of the victim was recorded u/s
164 of the Cr.PC. The victim was sent to GMCH for medical examination, but
she refused to allow medical examination. Due of insufficient evidence, the
I/O submitted FR in this case vide FR No. 239/17, dated 11.10.2017.
However, the Court rejected the FR, after finding sufficient materials against
the accused person in the case diary and directed to issue summons to the

accused.

The accused person entered appearance and he was allowed to go on
bail of Rs. 20,000/- with one surety of the like amount. On consideration of
charge, charge u/s 12 of the POCSO Act, 2012 was framed against the
accused person. Charge was read over and explained to the accused person

to which he pleaded not guilty and stood to face the trial.

In course of trial, the prosecution examined, as many as, 3 witnesses on
its behalf and also exhibited 1 document. Defence plea was of complete
denial of any guilt. Statement of the accused person was recorded u/s 313 of

the Cr.P.C. Defence adduced no evidence on its behalf.

I heard arguments, advanced by the Ld. Counsel for the parties.

Points for determination
Whether on 26.08.2017 or on any other date before, the accused
person committed sexual harassment upon the victim Maina Tanti,
aged about 16 years at his house, situated at Ambikagiri Nagar

under Geetanagar P.S?

Decision and Reasons thereof

I have gone carefully through the entire evidence on record and the
materials placed before me. PW.1 Bashanti Tanti is the mother of the victim.
She testified that her daughter was given to work in the house of accused
Srimanta Talukdar and his house is situated at Zoo Road. She further testified
that her daughter was then aged about 18 years and added that her
daughter had worked earlier in a house at Bhetapara. She further added that
from there Srimanta Talukdar brought her to his house. Her testimony further
reveals that she came to Guwahati to take back her daughter, but Srimanta
Talukdar did not allow her daughter to go with her. She further testified that
then she took help of Child Line Guwahati and Child Line Guwahati recovered
her daughter and gave her daughter into her custody. She added that at
present her daughter is residing with her. She further added that her
daughter did not report anything to her. During cross examination, the
witness stated that she does not know about the present case. She further
stated that the present age of her daughter is about 19 years. She reveals
that as Srimanta Talukdar did not allow her daughter to go, her daughter
cried before her, which compelled her to go to Child Line and Child Line
recovered her daughter. She further testified that her daughter did not report
her anything about any misbehavior by the accused person or his wife. She

added that police examined her in connection with the present case and she
told them that she was not inclined to proceed with any case against the

accused.

PW.2 Maina Tanti is the victim of the present case. She testified that last
year she worked in the house of accused Srimanta Talukdar, situated at Zoo
Road. She further testified that she was staying there in the said house as
domestic help and she worked there for about 6 months. She further added
that he (accused) was not paying her wages, nor allowed her to go to her
house and also did not allow her to talk to her mother over phone. Her
testimony further reveals that then one day she talked to her mother over
phone and asked her to take her back and then her mother came to
Guwahati for taking her (PW.2) with her. She added that the accused person
did not allow her to go and then her mother took the help of Child Line
Guwahati. She also reveals that the Child Line rescued her and kept her in an
Ashram and added that Child Line also took her to CWC and CWC gave her
custody to her mother. She further testified that Child Line also produced her
before the Court and she gave her statement before the Magistrate. She
added that she stated before the Magistrate, whatever she stated before the
Court. She further added that she did not file any case. During cross
examination, the witness stated that Child Line people did not tutored her to
state before the Magistrate.

PW.3 Bala Krishna Giri is the police officer and the informant of the case.
He testified that the occurrence took place about 6/7 months ago and then
he was posted at Geetanagar P.S. He further testified that on 26.08.2017,
one day Child Line Guwahati came to the police station and sought police
help for rescue of a child. His testimony further reveals that O/C Geetanagar
PS detailed him to accompany the Child Line and accordingly he along with

the Child Line went to Ambika Giri Nagar in the house of the accused. He
added that Child Line recovered the victim girl, who stated before them that
the accused person was not paying her monthly wages and was not allowing
her to go to her house. He further testified that her mother also came, but
the accused person did not allow her to go. He added that the victim stated
this much to them and also stated that the accused person gave her bad
indications. He further added that the Child Line rescued her and took the
victim girl to their office. His testimony further reveals that after that 10/15
days passed and Child Line did not file any complaint. He also added that the
mother of the victim came to the police station stating that her daughter was
not handed over to her by the Child Line and then O/C instructed him to file
the FIR. He further testified that accordingly he lodged the FIR. He proved
Ext.1 as the FIR and Ext.1(1) as his signature. He added that he did not
investigate the case and the case was investigated by WSI Nilima Boro
Bordoloi. During cross examination, the witness stated that the victim girl was
rescued on 26.08.2017 and he lodged the FIR on 08.09.2017. He admitted
that he did not meet the victim girl in between the two dates and also did not

record her statement.

10. Thus, on consideration of the entire evidence on record, I find that the
prosecution has failed to establish any guilt of the accused person. The
evidence of the victim suffers from inherent contradiction in comparison to
her previous statement, recorded on oath u/s 164 of the Cr.P.C. In her
statement recorded u/s 164 of the Cr.P.C, she had narrated a complete
different story. However, it transpires that she was suffering from mental
agony due to attitude of the accused, not to allow her to go back to her
house immediately, as demanded by her and her mother. As soon as, she
was given in custody of her mother, she changed her version and admitted

before the Court in her evidence that no such occurrence had taken place. As
the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the accused, removing all

shadow of doubt, I find it just to acquit the accused person.

11. In result, accused Srimanta Talukdar is held not guilty of offence
punishable u/s 12 of the POCSO Act 2012 and accordingly he is acquitted and
set at liberty forthwith. Bail bond, furnished on his behalf, will remain in force

for the next 6 months.

12. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open court on this 6" day of October,
2018 at Guwahati.

(S.P. Moitra)
Special Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati

Dictated & corrected by me.
(S.P. Moitra)

Special Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
(A)

(B)
(C)
(E)

(F)
(G)

APENDIX
Prosecution Exhibits :

Ext-1 :F.I1.R

Defense Exhibit : Nil
Court Exhibit : Nil
Prosecution Witnesses:

PW-1 : Smt. Bashanti Tanti
PW-2 : Miss Maina Tanti
PW-3 : Sri Bala Krishna Giri

Defense Witnesses : Nil
Court Witnesses : Nil.
(S.P. Moitra)

Special Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
