 

U/S - 366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act

State
- Versus -
Sandeep Das @MitunDas Accused.
PRESENT :- Shri p. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

For the State ‘- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person ‘- Sri M.H. Barbhuiya, Ld. Advocate,
Dates of recording evidence ‘- 07.05.2019.
Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC_ :- 13.05.2019,
Date of Argument ‘*- 13.05.2019.
Date of Judgment *- 13.05.2019,

JUDGMENT

ds The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 03.01.2019
the informant Jiten Barman lodged an ejahar with the O/c, Katlicherra
Police Station alleging that on 02.01.2019 at about 9.30 PM his minor
daughter i.e. the victim went missing from the rented house of one
Subudh Das and accordingly, he made vigorous search to find out the

2. On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as
Katlicherra Police Station Case No. 05/2019 under Sec. 363/376 of the
4, On appearance of accused person, copies of
relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to
him.

not adduce any evidence.

7 Heard argument of both sides, Perused the record,
(i) Whether the accused person induced the victim
to go with him with intent that she may be or knowing that she would
be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, as alleged?

(ii) Whether the accused person committed
penetrative sexyal assault on the victim, as alleged?

DISCUSSION, REASONS AND DECISION THEREOF ..

they all the villagers came out in searching the victim, out of fear, the
kidnappers left the victim and Subsequently, the victim told him that
she could not identify the Person who took her away, due to darkness.

In cross €xamination, the informant has stated that
he can not Say thre name of the Person who reported him that his
daughter i.e. the victim was kidnapped by the accused person.

did bad acts with her but on hearing sound of People, the miscreants
fled away leaving her there and subsequently, her father recovered
her. Police got her medically examined and also got her statement
her that someone took her away with his bike.

a1. In the instant case, the prime witness is the victim
herself and her evidence bears much Significance to Prove the alleged
commission of the offence. The victim in her evidence has
unequivocally divulged that due to darkness, she could not indetify the
miscreant and when the miscreant was taking her with him, the people
of her village came out raising hue and cry and then the miscreant fled
away leaving her there. She has also made it clear that she does not
know the accused Person standing on the dock and the appearance of
the miscreant is not like the accused and he is much taller than the
accused. The informant, who is the father of the victim, supporting the
version of the victim has stated in his evidence that the victim could
not identify the person who took her away due to darkness.

12. When the victim has not implicated the accused
person in her evidence with the commission of the alleged crime, | do
not find it appropriate to entangle the accused person with the guilt
of commission of the crime alleged.

a3. Accordingly, the accused person Sandeep Das @
Mitun Das is acquitted of the offence under Sec. 366(A) IPC read with
Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. Set him at liberty forthwith.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 01-2019,

«5.
14. The bail bond of the accused Person stands
discharged.
45. Send a copy of this judgment to the District
Magistrate, Hailakandi,
16. The = Special (POCSO) case is disposed of
accordingly.

Judgment is Pronounced and delivered in the open
Court under the seal of this Court and on my signature on this a3”

day of May, 2019.
es \
(Ks

SPECIAL JUDGE

Dictated and corrected by me :- HAILAK ANDI

   

SPEQIAL JUl
HAILAKANDI
we
Appendix :-
Oral evidences :-
PW. 1, Sri Jiten Barman.
PW. 2, The victim.
PW. 3, Smti. Joba Barman.

Documentary evidences :-

ext. 1- Statement of the victim

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

| r 5 go).

SPECIAL JUDGB
HAILAKANDI
