IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ziti: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.32/2017

State of Assam
Versus
MdAmzadAli san... Accused

Present: Smti M. Thakuria,M.Sc,LLB,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State :MrM.K.Ghose, Special P.P.

Ld. advocates for the accused: Mr P.S.Purkayastha and
Mr A.R.Mondal

Evidence recorded on = :17.5.18, 02.7.18, 25.7.18, 13.9.2018,
10.10.18, 12.12.18, 02.02.19, 30.4.19,
31.5.19 and 13.6.2019.

Argument heard on — : 18.7.2019, 02.8.2019 and 17.8.2019

Judgment delivered on : 27.8.2019

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution initiated the case on receipt of the first
information report lodged by the informant Mosstt Mursida Bibi against her
husband Md Amzad Ali alleging that on 10.9.2017 at about 11 A.M. her
husband was sexually assaulting her own minor daughter and when she saw
the incident accused left his daughter and went outside the house. On enquiry
her daughter reported that the accused had sexually assaulted her with
threatening to kill her if she does not allow him to fulfill his wish. It is further
alleged that prior to the said incident also the accused had committed the
same nature of misdeed with his own daughter in two days and hence, the first

information report.
Special Case No.32/17

2

2. On receipt of the first information report in Salakati Police Out
Post the same has been sent to the Officer-in-charge of Kokrajhar P.S. for
registration of the case making Salakati O.P. GDE No.576 dated 21.9.2017.
Accordingly the case has been registered as Kokrajhar P.S. case No.589/2017
under section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and
case was endorsed to S.J. Sri Ritul Moni Das for investigation. During
investigation the I.O. visited to the place of occurrence and recorded the
statement of the witnesses, arrested the accused, medically examined the
victim, her statement recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C., sent the wearing
apparels of the accused and victim to FSL and after ascertaining the minor age
of the victim, the charge sheet has been filed by the I.O. under section 4 of
POCSO Act against the accused Md Amzad Ali. Relevant copies also
furnished to the accused person and framed the charge under section 4 of
POCSO Act against the accused finding a prima-facie case. The charge was
read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.

3. But, while writing the judgment it has come to the notice that
charge ought to have been framed under section 6 of the POCSO Act as the
allegation of sexual assault brought against the father of the victim.
Accordingly the charge is altered under the provision of section 216(1)
Cr.P.C. and charge is framed under section 6 of the POCSO Act. The charge is
accordingly read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not
guilty. Both the prosecution and the defence side are also given chances for
adducing evidence in fresh in respect of altered charge. But, both the parties
declined to adduce evidence and hence argument heard afresh and judgment is

prepared accordingly.
4.

Special Case No.32/17

a

The prosecution side examined as many as 19 (Nineteen)

number of witnesses including the informant, victim, M.O. and I.O. as

follows:-

a

PW 1 Md Haider Ali,

PW 2 Md Amir Ali,

PW 3 Musstt Resmina Khatun Victim),
PW4 Md Jafar Ali,

PW5d Md Rahim Ali,

PW6 Md Samsul Hoque,

PW7 Md Kudus Ali,

PW8 Mosstt Mursida Bibi (Informant),
PW9 Md Pagaira Sk.,

PW10 Mosstt Abiran Bewa,

PW 11 Md Tumser Ali,

PW12 Md Fulsan Ali,

PW13 Md Jaidul Ali,

PW14 Md Azad Ali,

PW15 Md Selim Sk.,

PW16 Md Samad Ali,

PW17 Dr Monisha Boro Phukan (M.O.),
PW18 Smti R.Bora Handique (Scientific Officer) and
PW19 S.I. Ritul Moni Das (1.0.)

The accused person took the plea of total denial while recording

his statement under section 313 of Cr.P.C. and declined to adduce any defence

witness in support of his case.

6.

Point for determination:
Whether the accused committed the offence of penetrative

sexual assault to his own minor daughter ?
Special Case No.32/17

4

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

 

7. After thorough perusal of the case record, evidences of
prosecution witnesses and hearing argument from both the parties, I have
decided the case as follows with my reason thereof:-

8. The first information report of the case is lodged by Mosstt
Mursida Bibi against her husband Md Amzad Ali alleging that on 10.9.2017 at
about 11 A.M. her husband was sexually assaulting her own minor daughter
and when she saw the incident accused left his daughter and went outside the
house. On enquiry her daughter reported that the accused had sexually
assaulted her with threatening to kill her if she does not allow him to fulfill
his wish. It is further alleged that prior to the said incident also the accused
had committed the same nature of misdeed with his own daughter in two
days.

9. The informant also adduced her evidence as PW8 and narrated
the same story corroborating her statement made in the first information
report. As per her she was not present in her house and at that time she visited
to tea stall to have a cup of tea. But, when she returned home and about to
enter her house by keeping the curtain aside she saw the accused and he
immediately went away from the house and then she saw that her daughter
was not wearing panty and cleaning her vagina with a cloth. On enquiry she
reported that her father (accused) entered his penis into her vagina closing her
mouth and she felt pain though the accused did not enter his penis fully but,
he poured smear on her vagina. She then enquired the matter with the accused
and initially he scolded her very badly. But, thereafter he repented and begged
apology from her. But, she reported the entire incident to her in laws and they
asked her to leave the house along with her three daughters. After one week

the accused again returned to his village and then there was a bicher held in
Special Case No.32/17

5

the village. But, during the proceeding of the village bicher her mother-in-law
Mosstt Hasina Bibi brought the police and accused was accordingly arrested.
Thereafter she lodged the first information report. She also gave her statement
before the learned Magistrate and accordingly she exhibited her statement as
Ext.4. She also claimed her presence at the time of seizure of wearing apparel
of her daughter where she put her signature.

10. PW3 is the minor victim of this case and after putting some
preliminary questions her capacity of undersigned is assessed and accordingly
it is found that she has the ability to give rational answer. Thereafter her
Statement was recorded as witness. She deposed that at the time of incident
she was feeding grass to their goats and when she returned home her father
asked her to prepare “Chira and Muhri” and accordingly she prepared for her
father. Thereafter her father asked her to give massage on his forehead but,
while she was massaging her father, he forcefully opened her panty and
thereafter opening his lungi he penetrated his penis into her vagina and she
got hurt. She tried to restrain her father but, he threatened to kill her and also
told her that if she reported the matter to her mother he would strangulate or
hang her. But, while he penetrated his penis, her mother saw the incident. She
further deposed that prior to the said incident also her father committed the
same nature of act with her. Out of fear she could not disclose anything to her
mother.

11. Coming to the other witnesses it is seen that PW1 claimed his
presence at the time of bicher and he also deposed that the informant Mursida
Bibi told him and other villagers that her husband tried to commit rape on her
daughter. But, there could not be taken any decision in the bicher and the step
mother of the accused brought the police and he was arrested. He also gave

his statement before the learned Magistrate.
Special Case No.32/17

6
12. PW2 also narrated the same story and as per him also the
informant reported before them that the accused committed rape on his own
daughter. This witness also gave his statement before the learned Magistrate
under section 164 Cr.P.C. He also claimed his presence at the time of seizure
by police and he put his signature in the seizure list.
13. PWs,4 5, 6 and 7 also claimed their presence at the time of
village bicher and corroborating to each other have stated that Mursida Bibi
(informant) called for a village bicher with the allegation that the accused
committed rape on his own daughter. They also heard about the incident from
the informant as well as from the victim. But, during the proceeding of the
village bicher the police came and arrested the accused.
14. PWs9 and 11 also deposed that they heard about the illicit
relationship between the accused and his own daughter for which there was
village bicher and they also claimed their presence in the said bicher. But,
during the proceeding of the bicher the police came and arrested the accused.
PW9 also put his signature in the seizure list whereby the police seized
wearing apparel of the victim.
15. PW10, mother of the accused and PW13 Jaidul Ali did not
Support the prosecution case and accordingly they were declared hostile by
the prosecution. Both PW10 and PW13 deposed that there was quarrel
between the accused and informant but, they have not heard anything about
the incident.
16. PW12 was not present in the meeting as he was working in
Kerala but, after returning home he also heard that the accused committed

rape on his own daughter.
Special Case No.32/17

7

17. PWs14, 15 and 16 also heard about the commission of rape by
the accused to his own daughter and they also deposed in their evidences that
when the matter was enquired in the bicher, the victim herself stated before
the villagers that her own father committed rape on her and at the same time
the accused also confessed his guilt and begged apology. PW15 also deposed
that the accused repeated the same thing with his own daughter in earlier
occasions also and the victim herself brought the allegation against the
accused that the accused used to have sexual intercourse with her in earlier
2/3 occasions. PW16 also deposed in his evidence that on the day of the
incident the accused tried to have sexual intercourse with the victim by
opening her panty etc., when her mother saw the incident and accordingly she
reported the incident before the village bicher. As per theses witnesses also
police arrived while the proceeding was going on and after confession by the
accused he was handed over to the police.

18. PWs17, 18 and 19 are the official witnesses i.e. Doctor,
Scientific Officer and I.O. respectively. As per doctor (PW17) she did not find
any injury mark on the private parts of the victim and hymen was also found
intact and accordingly she opined that coitus did not take place. From her
evidence it also reveals that the mother of the victim refused to give vagina
smear of the victim for examination. PW18 examined one torn red coloured
panty with stain of suspected to be blood and semen and also examined one
white and green coloured sporting with stain of suspected semen along with
one black coloured jean long pant with staining which is also suspected to be
semen and as per her report red coloured torn panty gave positive test for
human semen. The evidence of Scientific Officer was recorded through V.C.

for convenience of the officer.
Special Case No.32/17

8

19. PW19 is the I.O. and he deposed that he visited to the place of
occurrence on being reported by one Hajera Bibi that her step son Amzad Ali
committed rape on his 11 years daughter which is seen by her mother Mursida
Bibi and accordingly she also informed that one village bicher was going on
in the office of ABMSU. The I.O. made GDE and immediately rushed to the
place of occurrence. On his arrival he saw that the bicher was going on and
accordingly he recovered the victim, recorded the statement of the witnesses
and on that day at about 1.17 P.M. mother of the victim Mursida Bibi lodged
the first information report. Thereafter he sent the victim for medical
examination, her statement was also recorded under sections 161/164 Cr.P.C.
and he seized wearing apparels of both the victim and accused. After seizure
wearing apparels, those were sent to FSL for examination. On completion of
investigation he found sufficient materials against the accused person under
section 4 POCSO Act and hence he filed the charge sheet against the accused
person.

20. So from the above discussion of the prosecution witnesses, it is
seen that PW3 is the victim of the case and PW8 is the informant and mother
of the victim who lodged the first information report and brought the grave
and nasty allegation against her husband stating that he committed rape on his
own daughter. As discussed above, the informant saw the incident when she
returning home from the shop and at that time the accused went away from
the house and her minor daughter was cleaning her vagina with a cloth. On
enquiry she reported that her father penetrated his penis into her vagina and
poured semen on her vagina. She also informed that her father repeated the
same act with her in earlier 2/3 occasions and threatened her not to disclose

anything to her mother otherwise he would kill her or strangulate her and
Special Case No.32/17

9

hence out of fear she could not disclose anything to her mother. Except the
victim herself and informant there is no eye witnesses to the incident and in
such case generally it cannot be expected to have any eye witnesses. But, the
other witnesses i.e. PWs1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15 and 16 also
corroborated and supported the prosecution case to the extent that they had
heard about the commission of rape by the accused with is own daughter. The
bicher was accordingly held where all these witnesses also claimed their
presence. They enquired the matter and heard about the incident from the
informant as well as from the victim.
21. PWs14, 15 and 16 also claimed that the accused confessed his
guilt in the village bicher that he committed rape on his own daughter and this
part of evidence of prosecution witnesses could not be rebutted by the defence
neither by cross - examining the witnesses nor by adducing any rebuttal
witnesses. However, PW10 and PW13 did not support the prosecution case
and they were declared hostile by the prosecution. For the PW10, it is nothing
absurd to deny the prosecution case as she is the mother of the accused.
Generally no mother can be expected to say something against her own son or
daughter. But, from the discussion of other prosecution witnesses it is evident
that there was a village bicher on the allegation of commission of rape by the
accused with his own daughter and in the said meeting the accused also
confessed his guilt.
2), During the course of argument the learned defence counsel
raised the following points:-

(i) There is no eye witness to the incident.

(ii) It is only the informant who told about the incident to all the

witnesses.
Special Case No.32/17

10

(iii) There is no medical evidence of rape in the medical report

of PW17 and hymen of the victim was also found intact.

(iv) No semen was found in the frock of the victim by the

Scientific Officer.

(v) The medical evidence does not support the ocular evidence.

(vi) There is no mention of size of the panty which give positive

test of semen.

(vii) There is no scientific report that semen found in the panty

of the victim is the semen of the accused.

(viii) The police did not seize lungi of the accused which he

alleged to have been wearing at the time of incident.
23. So the learned counsel for the accused raised the above
mentioned points and has submitted that the mother of the victim is interested
witness who reported about the incident to all villagers and all the prosecution
witnesses also came to know about the same in the village meeting which was
called by the informant. None of the witnesses have seen the occurrence and
they heard about the incident only in the meeting where it is claimed that the
informant as well as the victim narrated the story before them.
24. The prosecution case is that the father of the victim i.e. accused
committed offence of penetrative sexual assault with his 11 years own
daughter and as soon as the informant entered into the room he immediately
left the house and the informant saw her daughter while she was cleaning her
vagina with a cloth. On enquiry she reported the entire incident to her mother
and also stated that her father had committed the same nature of act with her
in earlier two occasions and threatened her to kill by strangulating her if she

discloses the matter to her mother. Out of fear she remained silent. This part
Special Case No.32/17

11
of evidence of both the informant and victim remained unrebutted. It is
admitted that at the time of incident none of the witnesses have seen the
occurrence and it is also not probable to bring any other eye witness by the
prosecution as the entire incident happened inside own house of the accused
and informant being the wife of the accused entered into the room suddenly
and saw the incident. At the time of recording the statement of the accused
under section 313 Cr.P.C. he took plea that he had quarrelled with his wife for
some monetary dispute and out of angerness he assaulted her and went to
Guwahati. But, while he was preparing to go Guwahati, his wife told him that
she will take revenge and will teach him a lesson. After 12 days, staying in
Guwahati when he returned home his elder daughter informed him that his
wife lodged a complaint before ABMSU and they are searching him. When he
was going to appear in ABMSU office, his step mother informed the police
and all the villagers assaulted him very badly and hence, only to save his life
he confessed before the villagers though he had not committed any such
offence as alleged. But, the accused did not adduce any evidence to prove his
case that a false and concocted case lodged by his wife with such nasty
allegation only for the quarrel which took place between him and his wife. So
merely statement given by the accused only at the time of recording his
statement is not at all sufficient to rebut the evidence of prosecution witnesses
and the case of the prosecution. More so it is also not believable that a lady
will bring such an allegation of commission of rape against her daughter by
her father only to take revenge against her husband for a simple quarrel of
monetary dispute. It is well settled principle of law the sole testimony of the
prosecutrix can be based for conviction of the accused if it is reliable and

inspires confidence.
Special Case No.32/17

12

25. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case reported in (1983) 3 SCC
217 Bharwada Bhoginbhi Hirjubhai V. State of Gujrat_has held that-
“testimony of victim of sexual assault is vital and unless there are compelling
reasons which necessitates looking for corroboration of her statement, the
Court should not find difficulty in acting on the testimony of the victim of
sexual assault alone to convict an accused when her testimony inspires
confidence and found to be reliable. Seeking corroboration of her statement
before relying upon the same as rule in such cases amounts to adding insult to
the injury”.

26. Our Hon'ble High Court also in another case reported in 2017

(4) GLT 395 Shiv Charan Talukdar Vs State of Assam expressed the same

view relying on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in 2017
(2) SCC 51 and paragraph 31 of the said judgment reads as follows:-

“31. After thorough analysis of all relevant and attendant
factors, we are of the opinion that none of the grounds, on which the High
Court has cleared the respondents, has any merit. By now it is well settled that
the testimony of a victim in cases of sexual offences is vital and unless there
are compelling reasons, which necessitate looking for corroboration of a
statement, the courts should find no difficulty to act on the testimony of
victim of a sexual assault alone to convict the accused. No doubt, her
testimony has to inspire confidence. Seeking corroboration to a statement
before relying upon the same as a rule, in such cases, would literally amount
to adding insult to injury. The deposition of the prosecutrix has, thus, to be
taken as a whole. Needless to reiterate that the victim of rape is not an
accomplice and her evidence can be acted upon without corroboration. She

stands at a higher pedestal than an injured witness does. If the court finds it
Special Case No.32/17

13

difficult to accept her version, it may seek corroboration from evidence which
lends assurance to her version. To insist on corroboration, except in the rarest
of rare cases, is to equate one who is a victim of the lust of another with an
accomplice to a crime and thereby insult womanhood. It would be adding
insult to injury to tella woman that her claim of rape will not be believed
unless it is corroborated the material particulars, as in the case of an
accomplice to a crime. Why should the evidence of the girl or the woman who
complains of rape or sexual molestation be viewed with the aid of spectacles
fitted with lenses tinged with doubt, disbelief of suspicion ? The plea about
lack of corroboration has no substance (See Bhupinder Sharma V State of
H.P.). Notwithstanding this legal position, in the instances case, we even find
enough corroborative material as well, which is discussed herein above.”

27. Further regarding the acceptance of evidence of child witness a

case of Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2008) 12 SCC 565 Nivrutti
Pandurang Kokate Vs State of Maharashtra can be cited which was relied

on the case of Hemmat Sukhadeo Wahurwagh Vs State of Maharashtra
(2009) 6 SCC 712 (FB), the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has held that-

veseees Though it is an established principle that child witnesses
are dangerous witnesses as they are pliable and liable to be influenced easily,
shaped and molded, but it is also an accepted norm that if after careful
scrutiny of their evidence the court comes to the conclusion that there is an
impress of truth in it, there is no obstacle in the way of accepting the evidence
of a child witness.”

As per section 118 of the Evidence Act, 1872, all persons shall
be competent persons to testify unless the court considers that they are
prevented from understanding the questions put to them, or from giving

rational answers to those questions.
Special Case No.32/17

14
28. Coming to the medical evidence it is seen that doctor found no
injury or mark of violence on the body and private parts of the victim and
hymen of the victim was also found intact and thus the doctor opined that
there was no sexual intercourse with the victim.
29, The learned counsel for the accused submitted that the medical
evidence does not corroborate the ocular evidence and as per medical
evidence it is very clear that there was no commission of rape on the victim.
30. In this regard the learned Special P.P. submitted that to attract a
case under section 4 of POCSO Act the extent of penetration is immaterial
and it amounts to penetrative sexual assault if the accused entered his penis, to
any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the
child to do so with him or any other person. Accordingly there might not be
ruptured of hymen of the victim but only for the said piece of medical
evidence it cannot be held that there was no penetrative sexual assault with
the victim.
31. Now, coming to the evidence of the victim it is seen that she
stated that her father penetrated his penis into her vagina and she got hurt.
But, she did not say anything that blood came out from her vagina nor she
stated there was bleeding from her vagina. But, her evidence to the extent that
her father entered his penis into her vagina remained unrebutted.
32. The learned Special Public Prosecutor submitted that to
constitute a case under section 4 of POCSO Act as well as under section 376
of IPC, complete penetration of penis is not necessary. He further submitted
that degree of penetration is not material to constitute a case under section 3
of POCSO Act or to fulfill the ingredient of Section 375 IPC. In this context

the learned Special P.P. also relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court
Special Case No.32/17

15

reported in 1992 SCC (3) 204, Madan Gopal Kakkad Vs Naval Dubey and
another wherein it is held that “................. Therefore as admitted above by
the respondent himself, he without forcibly and completely penetrating his
penis into the vagina of PW13 had slightly penetrated within the labia majora
or vulva or pudenda without rupturing hymen and thereby his lust after
emission of semens. In this context, it is seen not necessary to enter into any
nice discussion as to how far the male organ has entered in the vulva or
pudenda of PW13, since it is made clear that there was penetration attracting
the provisions of section 375 IPC.....
33. Here in the instant also it is admitted that as per medical
evidence the doctor did not find any mark of violence on the body and private
parts of the victim and hymen was also found intact. Absence of mark of
violence is quite acceptable as accused is the father of the victim and it is
stated by the victim herself that her father used to have sex with her with
threatening that he would kill her if she discloses anything to her mother. In
that case absence of mark of violence on the private parts of the victim is
quite obvious. More so, the victim did not complain of rupture of hymen for
the penetration of penis of her father.
34, Section 3 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act reads as follows:-

“A person is said to commit “penetrative sexual assault” if-

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth,

urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him

or any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not

being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child

or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or
Special Case No.32/17

16

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to

cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of

the child or makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the

child or makes the child to do so to such person.”

And as per section 5(n) of the said Act reads as follows:-

“whoever being a relative of the child through blood or adoption
or marriage or guardianship or in foster care or having a domestic relationship
with a parent of the child or who is living in the same or shared household
with the child, commits penetrative sexual assault on such child”
Bo: As per the provision of the Act even the manipulation of any
part of the body of a child so as to cause penetration would amount to
penetrative sexual assault which is punishable under section 4 of the Act.
[2017 SCC Gau 576 Sri Kamakhya Roy Vs State of Assam].
36. So as per the section 3 (a) even penetration of penis, to any
extent, into vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do
so with him or any other person; or penetrative sexual assault under this Act.
37. It is admitted that there is no eye witness in this case. But,
mother of the victim i.e. PW8 claimed that when she entered into the room
she saw the accused coming out from the house and her daughter was
cleaning her vagina with a cloth and as per the I.O. he seized wearing apparels
of the victim and accused and those were sent for examination before the
Scientific Officer. PW18 examined wearing apparels of both the accused and
victim and accordingly the Scientific Officer opined that one torn red

coloured panty gave positive of human semen on examination. But, long pant
Special Case No.32/17

17

of the accused gave negative test for semen. In this regard the learned
advocate for the accused raised the point that there is no clarification as to
whether panty which gave positive test for human semen belonged to the
informant i.e. mother of the victim or victim. But, as per the I.O. he seized the
frock and panty of the victim which produced by the informant though the
size of the panty was not mentioned by the I.O. However, material exhibit
was produced before the court and judicial notice was given and accordingly
it is seen that panty which was seized by the police is small panty and it
cannot be used by a grown up lady. Further the accused failed to produce any
rebuttal evidence in this regard. Another point raised by the learned advocate
that the I.O. failed to seize lungi which is alleged to have been wearing by the
accused at the time of committing the offence. The I.O. was also cross-
examined in this regard and it is stated by the I.O. that at the time of
apprehension the accused, he was wearing long pant which was accordingly
seized by the I.O. and they could not seize lungi which was used by the
accused at the time of committing the offence. It is also seen from the report
of PW18 that long pant of the accused with suspected stain of semen gave
negative test for human semen. But, presence of human semen on the panty of
the victim goes unrebutted. Further the Scientific Officer could not give any
opinion as to whether semen which is found in the examination belonged to
the accused or not as they were not supplied with any other sample to
compare the same.

38. At the time of recording the statement of the accused under
section 313 Cr.P.C. the accused took plea that the informant lodged a false and

concocted case against him only to teach him a lesson as he slapped his wife
Special Case No.32/17

18

after quarrel with her. But, as discussed above the accused failed to
substantiate his plea by adducing any rebuttal evidence or by cross-examining
PWs that the victim filed the case against him with such a grave allegation of
commission of sexual offence against his own daughter.

39. Section 29 of POCSO Act provides for presumption that the
accused had committed or abetted or committed the offence of penetrative
sexual assault unless the contrary is proved.

AO. But, here in the instant case the accused could not rebut the
presumption in any manner and also failed to prove that the accused has no
mental state to do the act as provided under section 30 of POCSO Act. More
so he also stated in his statement recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C. that he
was compelled to confess before the villagers only to save his life. But, he
could not produce any of the person present in the village meeting to say that
situation compelled the accused to confess before the villagers in the meeting.
PWs14, 15 and 16 claimed in their evidence that the accused confessed his
guilt before the village bicher and also begged apology before them. So the
question arises as to why all the prosecution witnesses will speak against the
accused ? PWs14, 15 and 16 will say about the confession of the accused
before the village bicher ? Further there is no evidence from the accused side
that all the witnesses specially PWs14, 15 and 16 deposed against him due to
any previous enmity or grudge. Thus, it is seen that the prosecution not only
able to establish the case under section 6 of POCSO Act against the accused
but there is also evidence of extra-judicial confession by the accused in regard
of commission of sexual offence with his own daughter.

Al. Extra-judicial confession is a weak piece of evidence and the
court must ensure that the same inspires confidence and is corroborated by

other prosecution evidence. In order to accept extra-judicial confession, it
Special Case No.32/17

19
must be voluntary and must inspire confidence. If the court is satisfied that the
extra-judicial confession is voluntary, it can be acted upon to base the
conviction. It is well settled that conviction can be based on a voluntarily
confession but the rule of prudence requires that wherever possible it should
be corroborated by independent evidence. Extra-judicial confession of

accused need not in all cases be corroborated. In Madan Gopal Kakkad Vs

Naval Dubey and Another (1992) 3 SCC 204, the Apex Court after referring
to Piara Singh and Others Vs. State of Punjab (1977)4 SCC 452 held that “the

law does not require that the evidence of an extra-judicial confession should
in all cases be corroborated. The rule of prudence does not require that each
and every circumstances mentioned in the confession must be separately and
independently corroborated”.

42. Here in the instant case the prosecution not only brought the
evidence of extra-judicial confession by the accused but also able to produce
sufficient corroborative evidence to prove the commission of offence by the
accused.

43. So considering the detail discussion made above, it is held that
the prosecution is able to establish the case against the accused Md Amzad Ali
under section 6 of POCSO Act and accordingly the accused is convicted
under the said section of law.

44, I have considered section 360 Cr.P.C. to release the accused on
probation. But, the heinous crime of committing penetrative sexual assault
with his own daughter of 11/12 years old shakes our judicial conscience. The
offence is inhuman. Rape is not only a crime against the person of a woman
(victim), it is a crime against entire society. It destroys the entire psychology
of a woman and pushes her into emotional crisis. Sexual violence apart from
being dehumanizing act is an unlawful intrusion of right of privacy and

sanctity of a female and as such the accused does not deserve such leniency.
Special Case No.32/17

20
A5. Heard the accused on the point of sentence under section 235 (2)
Cr.P.C. which is written in separate sheet and tagged the same with case
record. He submitted that he is poor person and has family burden and there is
none to look after his old ailing mother who solely depend on him and
accordingly, he prays for his release without any sort of punishment.
A6. The object of the sentence should be to protect the society and
deter the criminal. Gravity of the offence, mitigating factors, manner in which
the offence was planned and committed, prescribed punishment and the social
abhorrence of the offences etc. are indicators for sentencing. Reference in this
regard made to the Judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in 2016
(16) SCC 441 (Jasbir Singh Vs Tara Singh).
47. One of the prime objective of criminal law is imposition of
adequate, just and proper punishment which commensurates with the gravity,
nature of crime and manner in which the offence is committed. One should
keep in mind social interest and consideration of the society while considering
the determinative factors of sentence with the gravity of the crime.
48. In Rajendra Prasad Vs State of Uttar Pradesh [(1979)3 SCC
646] it is held that- “Judges are entitled to hold their own views, but it is the
bounden duty of the Court to impose proper punishment, depending upon the degree
of criminality and the desirability to impose such punishment as a measure of social
necessity, as a means of deterring other potential offenders”.
49. In the present case the accused is own father of the victim who
did not hesitate to commit such an offence with his own daughter. Further it is
also established that he committed the same offence earlier in two occasion
that too with his own daughter. So considering the entire circumstances of the
case, I find that it is a fit case for sentencing the accused with the maximum

punishment of imprisonment for life with fine.
Special Case No.32/17

21
QO R DER
50. In the result, the accused Md Amzad Ali is hereby convicted

under section 6 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act and
hereby sentence with Imprisonment for life along with a fine of Rs.5,000/-.
In default of payment of fine will undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for six
months. The period of custody of the accused shall be set off from the period
of sentence, if any.
51. Free copy of the judgment be furnished to the convicted Md
Amzad Ali under section 363 of Cr.P.C. and also a copy of the Judgment be
furnished to the learned District Magistrate, Kokrajhar complying the
provision of under section 365 of Cr.P.C.

The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the Court on this 27th August/2019 at Kokrajhar Court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
Special Case No.32/17

22
Appendix

The prosecution witnesses are:
PW 1 Md Haider Ali,

PW 2 Md Amir Ali,

PW 3 Musstt Resmina Khatun (Victim),
PW4 Md Jafar Ali,

PW5 Md Rahim Ali,

PW6 Md Samsul Hoque,

PW7 Md Kudus Ali,

PW8 Mosstt Mursida Bibi (Informant),
PW9 Md Pagaira Sk.,

PW10 Mosstt Abiran Bewa,

PW11 Md Tumser Ali,

PW12 Md Fulsan Ali,

PW13 Md Jaidul Ali,

PW14 Md Azad Ali,

PW15 Md Selim Sk.,

PW16 Md Samad Ali,

PW17 Dr Monisha Boro Phukan (M.O.),
PW18 Smti R.Bora Handique (Scientific Officer) and
PW19 S.I. Ritul Moni Das (1.O.)

The Court Witness is : Nil

The Defence witness is: Nil.

The exhibited documents are:

1. Ext-1 —_... Statement of witness Haider Ali recorded us/164 Cr.P.C.,
2. Ext.2 — ... Statement of witness Amir Ali recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.,
3. Ext.3  ... Village bicher proceeding,

4. Ext.4 — ...Statement of informant recorded u/s. 164 Cr.P.C.,

5. Ext.5 & 6...Seizure lists,

6. Ext.6A_ ....Medical report of victim,

6. Ext.7 — ....FSL report,

7. Ext.8 — ....Extract copy of GDE 576 dated 21.9.17,

8. Ext.9 — ....Seizure list,

9

. Ext.10_ ....Charge sheet,

10.Ext.11  ....Sketch map.

11.Material Ext.1 .. Red colour panty of the victim and

12.Material Ext.2 ..Skirt top.

The Defence witness and exhibit: Nil.

Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
