Page 1 of 23

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of evidence of DW

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

24 OF 2017
(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 3504 of
2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Madhab Ghatowal
Son of Late Lalu Ghatowal
Resident of Dipatola
Police Station,— Jamuguri,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam

12/07/2017

18/08/2017, 29/08/2017,
06/09/2017, 22/09/2017
21/10/2017 & 06/11/2017

18/11/2017

11/12/2017.

08/01/2018

20/01/2018

Mr. Munin Ch. Baruah
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. R.K. Kalita &
Mr. Arjun Prasad Kurmi,
Advocates.
Page 2 of 23

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Madhab Ghatowal is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

Zs The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that
accused used to visit the house of the informant since the month of
May, 2016. On the first day of incident in the evening time taking
advantage of absence of other family members of the informant
committed sexual intercourse with informant’s minor daughter Miss “X”,
as a result of such act, she became five months pregnant.“Qn enquiry
the matter to the girl, she disclosed that the accused has caused her
pregnancy. On 13-10-2016, while the ladies of.their village along with
VDP personnel asked the accused but he refused to confess. Hence, this
prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by Smt. Tileswari Kurmi before
the O/C of Jamuguri Police Station on, 14-10-2016.

a. On receipt of the ejahar;.the O/C of Jamuguri Police station
registered the case being. Jamuguri PS Case No. 144/16 u/s 493 of IPC
read with section 6 of POGSO Act by entering GD Entry No. 311 dated
14-10-2016. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C Jamuguri
Police Station sent up the accused for trial by filing charge sheet u/s 4
of the POCSO.Act against the accused Sri Madhab Ghatowal.

4. On’ being produced the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, charge under section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 framed
against the accused Sri Madhab Ghatowal and particulars of the charge
was read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not guilty

and claims to be tried.

5: To substantiate the case prosecution examined nine numbers of
witnesses and also examined one Court Witness. After completion of
prosecution evidence, accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the
allegations made against the accused and evidence appears against the

accused are put before him for explanation where he denied the

 
Page 3 of 23

evidence and allegation against him. To buttress the defence, the

accused has also examined one Defence witness.

6. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of
both the parties.

7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether the accused prior to 13-10-2016 at
Kusumtola, under Jamuguri Police station, committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim Miss X (16 years)
and thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences
Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.
9. PW 1, informant\Smt.Tileswari Kurmi stated that accused

Madhab Ghatowar is. her. co-villager. Victim Miss “X” is her minor
daughter. At present.her daughter just crossed 16 years. The incident
took place during the time of Durga Puja last year. Usually in the day
time she“went out to do her daily labour and therefore in the evening
after* marketing she returned to home. In her absence her victim
daughter and other daughter Tulsi were resides. Her husband also went
out)to do his works. On being seen the large abdomen of her daughter
she asked her whether she attained her periodical menstruation or not.
But due to shame she falsely stated “yes”. But when she took her to
doctor of Tezpur, Doctor reported that her daughter was pregnant of
five months. Then she asked her victim daughter how she become
pregnant, her daughter stated that during their absence accused
Madhav Ghatowal came to their house and took her to the kitchen and
forcefully raped on her. She was also threatened not to disclose to
anybody. By that way, accused 3/4 times committed rape on her
daughter. Then she informed this matter to VDP and local Mahila

 
Page 4 of 23

samity. Then, they called accused but accused fled away. Then she filed
the ejahar before the police. The ejahar was written by one Tridip Rai
Bhuyan on her dictation. During investigation, Police examined her
daughter through the Doctor. Then her statement was also recorded
through the learned Magistrate. Thereafter her victim daughter gave
birth a female child. Now, her victim daughter and the baby live with

them.

In cross-examination, she admitted that victim girl<is her first
child. She was born after about one and half years from their marriage.
Next child namely Bimala was born after about one,and ‘half years from
the birth of victim girl. Bimala, the second daughter/attains puberty
about one year ago from today. The distance.between her house and
the 12" Bn is 500 meter. Their village is thickly populated village. Near
their house, there are houses of Kalu Kurmi, Bhibishan Kurmi, Sankar
Kurmi and gaonburha Sakar etc. In the first room of her house, her
husband resides and in the next*room she along with her children
resides. One can enter into. their room only through the first room
where her husband ‘resides: One of their daughter Bimala is resides in
the house of one»Nirmal Baruah who is doing service at Bn. And other
daughter Urmila ‘Kurmi is resides in the house of one Naren Borah who
is also an employee of Bn. When her victim daughter and Bimala went
to school, they locked their house. Sometimes she returned home at
about)4/5 p.m. and sometimes she returned at about 6/7 p.m. When
she worked in paddy field then she returned home sometimes earlier.
There are differences of ten houses in between her house and the

house of the accused.

10. PW 2 Sri Hem Chandra Kurmi, father of the victim girl, stated
that accused Madhab Ghatowar is his co-villager. At the time of incident,
the age of his victim daughter was 17 years. He came to know about
the incident about one year ago. At the relevant time, he has seen her
daughter who becomes sickly and thin. Then he asked his wife why his

daughter becomes so. Then they took their victim daughter to hospital

 
Page 5 of 23

where doctor diagnosed that she became pregnant. When he asked his
victim daughter how she became pregnant, she told him that she
become pregnant from the side of Madhav Ghatowal. Then his wife filed
the ejahar. They also informed the matter to VDP secretary and
Gaonburah. When their villagers, VDP secretary and Gaonburah
searched the accused, he was absconded from his house. As the
accused was absconded then they advised them to file case against the
accused. Then his wife filed the ejahar. During investigation, “Police
examined his daughter through the Doctor. Then her statement was
also recorded through the learned Magistrate. Thereafter \his daughter
gave birth a female child. Now, his victim daughter and the baby live
with them.

In cross-examination, he admitted, that victim girl is his first
child. After about one year first baby was born. His victim daughter was
admitted at Dipatola LP school/when she was 6 years old. She reads
there for four years but she failed in one class. When she attained about
12 years they admitted<her in Nagsankar Girl's school. She reads upto
class X. She could not_appear in Matric examination due to the said

incident. She failed in.one time in High school also.

11. PW 3 Sri Home Nath Chetry stated that he knows the
complainant as well as the victim girl. The victim girl is 17 years old at
present. At the time of incident victim was 16 years of age. The incident
took place in the month of May, 2016. On 13-10-2016 the informant
along with her husband complained in writing addressing him stating
that their minor daughter Miss “X” was found five months pregnant.
While they enquired, the victim stated that she become pregnant from
the side of Madhab Ghatowal. Then they went to the house of accused
and shown the said complaint. They have also stating him from the side
of accused the victim became five months pregnant but he refused to
admit and called a meeting but the accused did not come and also
stated to file a case. During that time, they advised the complainant to

file a case against the accused. On 04-11-2016, the Investigating Officer

 
Page 6 of 23

has seized the School Certificate of the victim vide seizurelist Ext.1. Ext.
1(1) is his signature. According to the said school certificate the victim
at the time of incident only 16 years old as date of birth of the victim is
17-04-2000. At last, the said victim gave birth a female child.

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions, the evidence as to on 13-10-2016 he along
with the complainant write a letter addressing him stating that on being
seen the five months pregnant of his daughter Miss “X”, she told’ her
guardian that she become five months pregnant, on being»asked victim
stated that she become pregnant from the side of Madhab Ghatowal,
then they went to the house of accused ‘ands.shown the said
complainant and also stating that it is alleged in the complaint that from
his side victim become pregnant but«accused refused, the meeting
convened by them accused did not.appear rather stating that they can
take the help of law, then they advised’ the complainant to file the case
and accordingly during investigation on 04-11-2016 police seized the

school certificate of the victim has remained unchallenged.

12. PW 4 Miss.B. Khakhlary, learned Judicial Magistrate, 1* class,
Tezpur who recorded the statement of the victim stated that on 18-10-
2016 in reference to Jamuguri PS Case No. 144/16 u/s 493 of IPC read
with section 6 of POCSO Act, she has recorded the statement of the
victim Miss “X”, aged about 16 years, D/O Sri Hemchandra Kurmi of
Kusumtola, PS Jamuguri u/s 164 Cr.P.C as Elaka Magistrate. The victim
was escorted and identified by Nayan Jyoti Kalita, PLV No.17. She has
given reflection period of three hours to the victim in the court premises
and thereafter, she has recorded her statement in the chamber. The
victim made statement voluntarily. At the time of recording her
statement other than her and the victim none was there. After recording
the statement, the whole statement was read over to her and on
acceptance she put her signature in the statement in her presence.
Ext. 1 is her order dated 18-10-2016 and Ext. 1(1) is her signature. Ext.

 
Page 7 of 23

2 is the relevant statement of victim recorded by her and Ext. 2(1) is

her signature.

13. PW 5 Sri Kalu Kurmi, the grand-father of the victim, stated that
the complainant is his elder daughter-in-law. He came to know about
the incident nine months ago. Before nine months they noticed
apparent physical change of the victim. On being asked the victim, she
told that she become pregnant from the side of Madhab Ghatowal, then
they informed the matter to local public. They also informed the matter
to Lily Bhuyan Baidue of Mahila Samity, Secretary Hom Nath.Chetry and
Gaonburha Sankar Kurmi. Then local public asked the accused but the
accused denied. During that time, his grand-daughter.was five months
pregnant. When the accused refused to confess, the villagers again
came to her and advised them to take the help of law. Then,
complainant filed this case. During<that time the victim was only 16
years old. At last, the victim grand-daughter gave birth a female child,
at present the baby is seven months old and the baby lives with his
victim grand-daughter.

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination, but the
evidence as to.on,being noticed the change of physical appearance of
the victim granddaughter while asked her, she disclosed that she
become. pregnant from the side of accused Maghab Ghatowal,
accordingly, they informed the matter to local public including Lilu
Bhuyan Baidue of Mahila Samity, Secretary Hom Nath Chetry and
Gaonburah Sankar Kurmi, they also asked the accused but the accused
refused to admit, during that time the victim was five months pregnant,
therefore at the advice of local public, the complainant filed this case
and at last the victim gave birth a female child has remained
unchallenged.

14. PW 6 Smt. Lily Bhuyan, President of Nikhil Bharat Ganatantik
Mahila Samity, Jamuguri Region, stated that at the time of incident,
victim was only 16 years old. On 13-10-2016 the parents of the victim
has filed a complaint before her stating that 40/45 years old Madhab

Ghatowal raped their daughter as a result, their daughter became

 
Page 8 of 23

pregnant. On being receipt the complaint, she discussed with the VDP
secretary, village headman and local public about the matter.
Thereafter, she along with the VDP secretary, village headman and
public of three organisations asked the accused and called the accused
to the meeting convened by them but the accused did not attend the
meeting. Therefore, they advised the complainant to take the help of
law and accordingly, the complainant filed this case. When the
complainant side informed them about the incident, the victim was, five
months pregnant. Thereafter, on 25-12-2016 the parents of the»victim
reported them that the victim gave birth a female childs While they
asked the victim Miss “X”, she disclosed that she become pregnant form
the side of accused, while they asked the victim’as‘to why she did not
inform about the incident to them earlier, the»victim stated that the
accused threatened to kill her, therefore, out‘of fear she did not disclose

it. The baby gave birth by victim is‘with the victim at present.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination but the
evidence as to on being receipt of complaint from the parents of the
victim that the accused ‘caused pregnancy to their daughter, she
informed the matter.to VDP Secretary, village headman and the local
public, accordingly they went to the house of the accused, asked about
the incident, they called a meeting but accused did not come, then they

advised:them for instituting the case has remained unchallenged.

15;. PW 7 Miss “xX” stated that the incident took place on or about
1% years ago. One day at night her parents are absent and she was
alone in her home. She has three sisters, all the three sisters were
engaged as maid in some other houses. At the time of incident she was
reading in class IX. Her mother went out for works at the relevant time
and did not return home. Her father like a mad man, loitering
anywhere. Accused at about 7/8 p.m., came to their house, called as
“mami”, “mami”. She was alone in her bed. Accused took her to the
kitchen. While she raised alarm accused gagged her mouth with her red

coloured “churni”. Accused fell her down by opening her churidar, scroll

 
Page 9 of 23

upon her and committed misdeed to her. He inserted his private parts
into her private parts. Thereafter also accused came to their house and
committed such type of misdeed for total four days. She was threatened
to kill if she disclosed the matter to others, as a result, she became
pregnant. While she reported about her pregnancy to accused, accused
stated her not to worry. During Puja time local people noticed her
swelling abdomen and on being seen that asked her mother,
accordingly, her mother asked her, she told whole incident ‘to, her
mother where her mother has assaulted. She disclosed to her*mother
that she became pregnant form the side of accused’ Madhab.
Thereafter, her mother informed the matter to village headman,
members of Mahila Samioty, VDP and local public)On the advise of local
public her mother filed this case. At last she gave a female child which
is now resides with her. After instituting.the’ case, she was examined
through the doctor, her statement\.was also recorded through the
learned Magistrate. Ext. 2 is the said statement and ext. 2(2) to 2(4) are
her signatures. She made-statement to the learned Magistrate what she
deposed today. Accused ‘has’ also advised her not to disclose anybody
about her closure.of menstruation, otherwise threatened her to kill.

Therefore, she told others that she was regularly menstruated.

Thoughvshe has been exposed to long cross-examination but the
evidence as to at the relevant time taking advantage of absence of
other\family members, accused came to their house, fell her down on
the floor, sleep over her, where accused inserted his sexual organ into
her private parts, by that way accused committed rape for four days,
accused also threatened her not to disclose the matter to others,
otherwise she will be killed, thereafter she became pregnant and when
she reported the matter to the accused, accused asked her not to worry

has remained unchallenged.

16. PW 8 Dr. Jharna Kakoti, the Medical Officer, stated that on 19-
10-2016 she was working as Sub-Divisional Medical & Health Officer in

the Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that day in reference to

 
Page 10 of 23

Jamuguri PS Case No. 144/16 u/s 493 of the IPC read with section 6 of
the pOCSO Act dated 18-10-2016, she examined Miss “X”, 16 years,
D/O Hem Ch. Kurmi of village Kusumtola, PS —Jamuguri, Dist. Sonitpur,
on being escorted and identified by Nayan Jyoti Kalita, WGH. The victim
was examined on 19-10-2016 at about 1.50 p.m. in the labour room
complex of KCH, in presence of GNM Kamala Talukdar of KCH, vide
hospital registration No. 45540/16 and on examination found the

following:

Idenfication mark — mole on right upper part of chest.

Menstrual history — history of cessation of menstruation for few
months

History of sexual intercourse few months back.

Height — 153 cm, Weight — 42 Kg,.Teeth — 14/14.

At the time of examination<She was well dressed, neat and tidy.
Gait normal. Her secondary sexual characters developed. Vulva, vagina
healthy, hymen absent. Perabdominal height of uterus just above the
umballicus. There was ‘no injury mark or marks of violence on her

private parts. Vaginalesmear for spermatozoa was taken.
Investigations advised and reports-

1 Vaginal smear for spermatozoa- No sperm (done at KCH

kab No. 113/16 dated 19-10-2016)

2. Urine for HCG — Positive (done at Assam X-ray Clinic &
Lab, Tezpur. Reports given by Dr.D. Mahanta, Pathologist. Patient ID BI,
31639 dated 19-10-2016.

3. X-ray of left wrist joint, elbow joint and iliac crest for age

determination.

Union of the epiphysis of the lower ends of radius and ulna are

complete.

All Epiphysis of the bones around the left elbow joint has

fused.

 
Page 11 of 23

Epiphysis of the iliac crest has appeared but not fused.

Age of the person under investigation is appears to be
just over 18 years. Patient ID No. 2764 dated 19-10-2016, done
at AXCL, report given by Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist.

Ultra Sonography of pelvis — Single live fetus is seen in
the uterus with cephalic presentation. Fetal heart rate is normal
and regular. Heart rate is 156 BPM. US gestational agevis 28
weeks. Estimated fetal weight is 1200 gams. The placenta is
normal and is situated in the fundus and of-posterior uterine
wall. Liquor amount is adequate. Active fetal movements were
observed during examination. The cervical segment is normal
and measures 32 mms. Normal intra’ —uterine, 28 weeks
gestation with single active fetus, (done at Assam X-ray Clinic &
Lab, Patient ID NO. AXC 2764, by Dr. P.K. Barman, Sonologist. )

OPINION:

1. There is no injury marks or violence on her body
as well as on her private parts at the time of
examination.

2. She was pregnant normal, Normal intra-uterine
28\weeks gestation with single active foetus at the time of
examination.

Enclosures: Advice slip, police requisition, Vaginal smear
report, Urine for HCG report, Ultra sonography report with plates
and X-ray reports with plates.

Ext. 3 is the Medical report and Ext. 3(1) and 3(2) are her
Signatures. Ext. 4 is the advice slip of KCH. Ext. 5 is the Ultra
sonography report with X-ray reports along with plates and Ext. 5(1)
is the signature of Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist which is known to her.
Ext. 6 is the vaginal smear report and Ext. 6(1) is the signature of

laboratory technician of KCH, Tezpur which is known to her. Ext. 7 is

 
Page 12 of 23

the Urine for HCG report and Ext. 7(1) is the signature of Dr. D.

Mahanta, which is known to her.

In cross-examination, the doctor admitted that since the age of
foetus was 28 weeks, which is the result of sexual intercourse took place
prior to March, 2016.

17. PW 9 Sri Raju Bahadur Chetry, Investigating Officer of this case,
stated that on 14-10-2016 he was posted at Jamuguri Police Station as
O/C. On that day, an FIR was received from one Smt. TileswarieKurmi
and registered the same as Jamuguri PS Case No. 144/16 u/s 493 of the
IPC read with section 6 of the Special POCSO Act by giving GD Entry
311 dated 14-10-2016 and he himself taken, the charge of the
investigation the case. In the said ejahar ‘the complainant Smt.
Tileswari Kurmi put her thumb impression. Ext. 8 is the said ejahar and
Ext. 8(1) is his signature. Thereafter).on the said date, at about 10.15
a.m. he left for the place of occurrence, visited the place of occurrence
and prepared the sketch map ofthe place of occurrence. Ext. 9 is the
sketch map and Ext: 9(1) is his signature. He has recorded the
statement of victim,girl and other witnesses u/s 161 Cr.P.C. at the place
of occurrence: Thereafter on 04-11-2016 he has seized one school
certificate<of victim Miss “X”, D/O Sri Hem Chandra Kurmi of village
Dipatola of Jamuguri Police station bearing No. 495, Admission Register
No. 14/524-15 issued by Head Master of Nagsankar Adarsha Girls’ High
School mentioning the date of birth is 17-04-2000. The original of the
said seized certificate given to the zimma of father of the victim girl
namely, Hem Chandra Kurmi. Photocopy of the said seized certificate is
enclosed with the seizurelist. Ext. 1 is the seizurelist and Ext. 1(2) is his
signature. Ext. 10 is the undertaking bond regarding zimma of the victim
girl to her guardian and Ext. 10(1) is his signature. On 18-10-2010 he
has sent the victim for medical examination and also sent the victim to
the learned court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.by
forwarding letter vide Ext. 11 and Ext.11 (1) is his signature. After

collecting the medical report and other required documents, finding

 
Page 13 of 23

sufficient materials against the accused person Madhab Ghatowar he
has filed charge-sheet against him u/s 4 of the Special POCSO Act. Ext.
12 is the charge-sheet and Ext. 12 (1) is his signature. He has
mentioned in the charge-sheet that the victim girl was five months
pregnant. During investigation, he searched the accused in his house

but he was found absent.

In cross-examination, he admitted that he has not recorded the
statement of Kalu Kurmi, Sankar Kurmi, Somnath Chetry \and Lily
Bhuyan and Bhibhisan Kurmi as they have corroborated the statement
of victim and complainant. He has not given any explanation as to why
he has not recorded their statements however,he has given a

explanatory note.

18. Court witness 1, Sri Ratul Bhuyan, Head Master of Nagsankar
Adarsha Girls’ High School, stated that.he has appeared before this court
upon the receipt of summons. In the said summons he was asked to
produce the original counter foil of the Books of Certificate and
Admission Register. On 07-08-2015 he was posted as Head Master of
Nagsankar Adarsha, Girls’ High School. On that day, he has issued a
Certificate in the name of Bharati Kurmi, D/O Sri Hem Chandra Kurmi of
village Dipatola, PO — Karsontola, PS Jamugurihat as she was a student
of class IX.of their school. The certificate being No. 495 was issued by
him»where the date of birth of Bharati Kurmi was mentioned as 17-04-
2000 according to their School Admission register where he signed as
head Master of the School. The original counter foil of the certificate is
kept in their school which he produced before the court. Ext. 1 is the
original counter foil Certificate (proved in original) issued to Miss Bharati
Kurmi and Ext. 1(1) is my signature as head Master of the School. Ext.
1(2) is the counterfoil of the said certificate. It appears from Ext. 1(2)
that father of Miss Bharati Kurmi, Sri Hem Chadra Kurmi has received
the same by putting his thumb impression. Ext. 2 is the Admission
Register from 2005-2017. Ext. 2(1) is the relevant page of Admission

 
Page 14 of 23

register and Ext. 2(2) is the relevant entry of Miss Bharati Kurmi, SI NO.
14/524 where her date of birth is on 17-04-2000.

In cross-examination he admitted that victim admitted in their
school in Class IX but her date of admission not noted in the admission
Register. Usually they issued Transfer/Reading Certificate at the time of
leaving the school by the students but so far he recalled these

certificates were issued to the student at the time of NRC updating.

19. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case; Defence

plea is total denial while his statement was recorded u/sS.313 of Cr.P.C.

20. To buttress the defence, defence examined, one-witness i.e. DW
1 Sri Chandra Kanta Mura who stated that:he is the member of Pub-
Borbhogia Gaon Panchayat consisting of Dipatola and Nizbosti village.
Tileswari Kurmi belongs to Dipatola village. He has a plot of land in
village Dipatola, accused has also plotvof land and Tileswari Kurmi has
also a plot of land. The land of. Tileswari Kurmi and Madhab Ghatowal
are adjacent. His plot is situated at the eastern side of their land. For
the land dispute there were many quarrel took place in between
Tileswari and Madhab. In the month of June, 2016 at the time of paddy
cultivation a quarrel took place between Tileswari and Madhab for
distribution of* irrigation water. During that time Tileswari warned
accused.that she will falsely implicated him in a case where they have to
Sale their landed property. As a gaon Panchayat member, he used to
visit their village. During the time of Durga puja, he went to see the
construction work of the house allotted under Indira Abas Yojana in the
evening time, then Tileswari called him to their house and accordingly,
at about 6.00 p.m. he went to the house of Tileswari Kurmi. Then the
elder brother of Tileswari Kurmi was called by Tileswari. He has seen
her pregnant abdomen. Tileswari Kurmi asked him to ask the said
daughter from whose side she becomes pregnant. Then the victim
stated that she become pregnant from the side of her father Hem
Chandra Kurmi. Then, again she stated that she become pregnant from

the side of Munu Kurmi. Then there were Hulasthul took place at that

 
Page 15 of 23

time. Munu Kurmi used to live in the house of Tileswari Kurmi. Tileswari
Kurmi deals in business of local liquor, therefore, many customers came
to their house. When the hulasthul took place, then he left the house of
Tileswari Kurmi. Then he heard that Tileswari filed a case against
Madhab Ghatowal.

In cross-examination, he stated that he has appeared before this
court not on summons but on the request of the accused he came to
the court to adduce evidence. Even before coming to this court, he has
discussed with the accused Madhab Ghatowal. He admitted that he
knows that Tileswari Kurmi has filed a case against- accused Madhab
Ghatowal alleging that Madhab Ghatowal committed ‘rape on Tileswari’s
elder daughter on several times as a result; she became pregnant.
Usually, in the village, if such any incidenttook place, before informing
to police or court, usually they informed the village headman about the
occurrence. The victim and complainant belong to village Dipatola and
the alleged incident did occur at.Dipatola village. The village headman of
the village Dipatola is Sankar Kurmi. In the village Dipatola, there is
Mohila Samity namely Nikhil Bharat Ganatantrik Mohila Samity. During
that time Lily Bhuyan.was the president of that Mohila Samity. He knows
Hom Nath Chetry.and at that time he was the VDP secretary of Dipatola

village.

21. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has, failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly,
other than the victim none has supported the prosecution case. Even
the statement of the victim, there is no any direct evidence as to the
alleged offence. Secondly, the case was filed after five months of
incident but FIR does not reveal any explanation. Thirdly, foetus of the
victim took place 28 weeks ago i.e. prior to the month of March, 2016
as the doctor clearly stated that pregnancy may be occurred due to
sexual intercourse prior to 28 weeks. But, according to FIR, accused
after introduction used to visit the house of complainant after the month

of May’16 and alleged forceful sexual intercourse took place during that

 
Page 16 of 23

period. Had that been so fetus of victim of 28 weeks cannot be took
place. To be pregnancy and fetus of 28 weeks of the victim, the victim
must have been sexual intercourse with a person in the month of
March’16. Therefore, the pregnancy of the victim cannot be caused by
accused as the accused introduced with complainant and victim only
from the month of May’16. Fourthly, the doctor opined that the age
of the victim is above 18 years so this case cannot be come under
POCSO Act. Fifthly, there is many contradictions. Besides that, the
allegation of land dispute is admitted by the prosecution and=due to
enmity the case is filed by the prosecution. Lastly, the Investigating

Officer has failed to examine the neighbours.

22. Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur submittd
that the prosecution has ably proved the ‘case beyond any reasonable
doubt, as such, accused is required:to be.convicted under the charged

section of law.

23. Keeping in mind the argument advanced by learned counsels of

both sides, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

24. A close-scanning of the record including the evidence of the
aforesaid witness, /it is seen that except the victim there is no eye
witness-to the»occurrence. There is an evidence of victim i.e. Miss “X”
PW-7, stated that at the time of incident, her parents were absent in
their home and she was alone in her home. She has three sisters, all the
three sisters were engaged as maid in some other houses. At the time
of incident she was reading in class IX. Her mother went out for works
at the relevant time and did not return home. Her father like a mad
man, loitering anywhere. Accused at about 7/8 p.m., came to their
house, called as “mami”, “mami”. She was alone in her bed. Accused
took her to the kitchen. While she raised alarm accused gagged her
mouth with her red coloured “churni”. Accused fell her down by opening
her churidar, scroll upon her and committed misdeed to her. He inserted
his private parts into her private parts. Thereafter also accused came to

their house and committed such type of misdeed for total four days.

 
Page 17 of 23

She was threatened to kill if she disclosed the matter to others, as a
result, she became pregnant. While she reported about her pregnancy
to accused, accused stated her not to worry. During Puja time local
people noticed her swelling abdomen and on being seen that asked her
mother, accordingly, her mother asked her, she told whole incident to
her mother where her mother has assaulted. She disclosed to her
mother that she became pregnant form the side of accused Madhab.
Thereafter, her mother informed the matter to village headman,
members of Mahila Samioty, VDP and local public. On the advice*of local
public her mother filed this case. At last she gave a female child which
is now resides with her. After instituting the case, she was examined
through the doctor, her statement was also recorded through the
learned Magistrate. Ext. 2 is the said statement and ext. 2(2) to 2(4) are
her signatures. She made statement to the learned Magistrate what she
deposed today. Accused has also advised her not to disclose anybody
about her closure of menstruation, otherwise threatened her to kill.
Therefore, she told others that she was regularly menstruated. Though
she has been exposed ‘to\long cross-examination but the evidence as to
at the relevant time taking advantage of absence of other family
members, accused came to their house, fell her down on the floor,
sleep over her, where accused inserted his sexual organ into her private
parts, by that way accused committed rape for four days, accused also
threatened her not to disclose the matter to others, otherwise she will
be killed, thereafter she became pregnant and when she reported the
matter to the accused, accused asked her not to worry has remained

unchallenged.

The statement of the victim is also supported by the PW 3, PW
5, PW 6 and PW 7. PW 3 stated that he knows the victim, her age is
about 17 years. At the time of incident victim’s age was about 16 years.
The incident took place in the month of May, 2016. On 13-10-2016 the
informant along with her husband complained in writing addressing him
stating that their minor daughter Miss “X” was found five months

pregnant. While they enquired, the victim stated that she become

 
Page 18 of 23

pregnant from the side of Madhab Ghatowal. Then they went to the
house of accused and shown the said complaint. They have also stating
him from the side of accused the victim became five months pregnant
but he refused to admit and called a meeting but the accused did not
come and also stated to file a case. During that time, they advised the
complainant to file a case against the accused. On 04-11-2016, the
Investigating Officer has seized the School Certificate of the victim vide
seizurelist Ext.1. Ext. 1(1) is his signature. According to the said school
certificate the victim at the time of incident only 16 years old‘as-date of
birth of the victim is 17-04-2000. At last, the said victim\gave birth a

female child.

Similarly, PW 5, the grandfather of the victim stated that on
being noticed the physical appearance<of.the victim, they asked the
victim how she became so, she told them that she became pregnant
from the said of Madhab Ghatowal. »Accordingly, they informed the
matter to the local villagers. They~have also informed to Lily Bhuyan
Baidue of Mahila Samity, Secretary Hom Nath Chetry and Gaonburha
Sankar Kurmi. Then local public asked the accused but the accused
denied. During that time, his grand-daughter was five months pregnant.
When the accused’ refused to confess, the villagers again came to her
and advised them to take the help of law. Then, complainant filed this

CaSe:

PW 6 Smt. Lily Bhuyan, President of Nikhil Bharat Ganatantik
Mahila Samity, Jamuguri, stated that she knows the victim. At the time
of incident, victim was only 16 years old. On 13-10-2016 the parents of
the victim has filed a complaint before her stating that due to rape
committed by one Madhab Ghatowal, 40/45 years of age, their minor
daughter became pregnant. On being receipt the complaint, she
discussed with the VDP secretary, village headman and local public
about the matter. Thereafter, she along with the VDP secretary, village
headman and public of three organisations asked the accused and

called the accused to the meeting convened by them but the accused

 
Page 19 of 23

did not attend the meeting. Therefore, they advised the complainant to
take the help of law and accordingly, the complainant filed this case.
When the complainant side informed them about the incident, the victim
was five months pregnant. Thereafter, on 25-12-2016 the parents of the
victim reported them that the victim gave birth a female child. By that
way, PW 3, PW 5 and PW 6 were supported the evidence of PW 7 i.e.
the victim.

Though the aforesaid witnesses PW 3, PW 5 and PW.6 were duly
cross-examined by the defence but except giving many suggestions the
evidence as to at the relevant time on being filed an-application before
them by the parents of the victim that their minor.daughter became
pregnant from the side of accused, they met the accused and asked him
but he refused to admit. Even the meeting convened by them on that
issue accused did not come rather accused told them to file case before

the police has remained unchallenged.

25. In this case, the victim, her mother and the independent
witnesses categorically stated about the incident. Their statements are
corroborated with-each other. During their cross-examination same has
not been disputed at all by the defence. The victim has been consistent
with the material particular with regards to the incident that on the day
of incident while her parents and other family members were absent
accused came to their house, forcefully took her to their kitchen and
thereafter fell her down, opening her Churidar, forcefully committed
rape on her and by that way accused committed sexual intercourse with
her for four time as a result, she became pregnant. There is also an
evidence that while she became pregnant, she reported the matter to
the accused but accused console her not to worry, thereafter, the
accused threatened the victim to tell lie by stating that her menstruation
is regular, even in fact, her menstruation was irregular. Therefore, she
had to state local public that her menstruation was regular out of fear.
The statement of the victim is also corroborated with her statement
made u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and made before the police u/s 161 Cr.P.C.

 
Page 20 of 23

26. The un-rebuttable evidence of doctor is such that at the time of
examination of the victim, the victim was pregnant. Normal intra-uterine
28 weeks gestation with single active fetus at the time of examination.
The doctor admitted in cross-examination that pregnancy may be
occurred due to sexual intercourse prior to 28 weeks. Since the age of
foetus was 28 weeks, which is the result of sexual intercourse took
place prior to March, 2016. According to the FIR, the accused was used
to visit their house since the month of May, 2016 and the alleged
incident took place during that period. Learned counsel for the aecused
vehemently submitted that if the victim got pregnancy for\28 weeks on
19-10-2016 then sexual intercourse might have been occurred prior to
the period of 28 weeks that means prior to the month of march, 2016.
Since there is no any evidence that accused.has visiting terms to the
house of the victim from the month of March;-2016 and accused used to
visit the house of the complainant.only after the month of May, 2016 so
it is impossible to made any alleged sexual intercourse during the month
of March, 2016, therefore; the alleged pregnancy is not from the side of
the accused. Besides, that, prosecution has failed to prove the case by
way of DNA test that the girl baby was born to victim from the side of
the accused Madhab Ghatowal.

27. It isa*fact that there is no any evidence that from the month of
March, 2016 accused has visiting terms in the house of the complainant
or heyaccused had any sexual relation forceful or consensus with the
victim from the month of March, 2016. According to the FIR accused
used to visit the house of complainant only after the month of Mary,
2016. Therefore, pregnancy of the victim of 28 weeks on 19-10-2016
cannot take place for alleged intercourse after the month of May, 2016
it must have been resultant of intercourse took place from the month of
March, 2016. But here in this case there is no such evidence as stated
above that there is a relation of the victim with the accused from the
month of March, 2016. Secondly, as submitted by learned counsel for
the accused that it is a fact that prosecution has failed to examine the

DNA test to confirm about the allegation that the girl child was born

 
Page 21 of 23

from the side of the accused. In absence of such evidence, it remains

dark as to whose side the said child was born.

28. Besides the above discussion, PW3 stated that on 13-10-2016,
the parents of the victim girl given in writing that the victim was found
five months pregnant. According to PW5, the grandfather of the victim
he came to know about the abnormal formation of abdomen of victim in
nine months ago, whereas, PW5 given evidence on 06-09-2017.
Therefore, PW 5 came to know about the apparent large abdomen of
victim in the month of Dec’16 or Jan’17. During that period, the victim
was five months pregnant. So, sexual intercourse might have been took
place in the month of June’16 or July’16. According to-PW6 when they
both have been informed by the parent of the victim, the victim was five
months pregnant. According to her, parent.of the victim informed them
on 13-10-2016. During that time, the victim was five months pregnant.
Had that been so, the victim’ must»have been indulged in sexual
intercourse prior to five monthsi.e-within the month of May’16. But, as
stated above, according to doctor who examined the victim on 19-10-
2016 found normal pregnancy of the victim with 28 weeks fetus at the
time of examination. ‘The doctor admitted that pregnancy may be
occurred due to ‘sexual intercourse prior to 28 weeks. Since the age of
fetus is<28\weeks which is the result of sexual intercourse took place
priorsto.March’16. But, the present case is instituted upon the FIR. The
FIR clearly reveals that accused was introduced to complainant and
victim only in the month of May’16 and thereafter, accused used to visit
their house. FIR does not reveals any of the incident of March’16 neither
evidence of any of the witnesses stated about the any event of
March’16. 2ndly, the prosecution has failed to DNA test of the child born
to the victim. Had prosecution properly test DNA of the child, then it

would be clear about the paternity of the child.

29. Under such circumstances, I have come to a conclusion that
prosecution has failed to prove the aforesaid alleged penetrative sexual

assault to the victim by the accused, as a result, the child was born to

 
Page 22 of 23

victim. Hence, I have not hesitation to hold that accused is entitled to
get the benefit of doubt. As such acquit him and set at liberty forthwith.

18. = The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.
19. Send back the LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 20" day
of January,2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. P. Das, Steno
PW 1
PW 2
PW 3
PW 4
PW 5
PW 6
PW 7
PW 8
PW 9
CW 1

Page 23 of 23

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

ses Smti Tileswari Kurmi(complainant).
ses Sri Hem Ch Kurmi.

- Sri Home Nath Chetry.

= Miss B Khaklary.

= Sri Kalu Kurmi

= Smti Lily Bhuyan,

— Miss “X”(victim).

:- Dr Jharna Kakoti(MO).

- Sri Raju Bahadur Chetry(IO),

Be Sri Ratul Bhuyan.

DOCUMENTS EXHIBITED BY PROSECUTION:

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2

Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4
Exhibit 5

Exhibit 6
Exhibit 7
Exhibit 8
Exhibit 9
Exhibit 10

Exhibit 11
Exhibit 12

1. Exhibit 1
2. Exhibit 2

Order.dated 18-10-2016.
Statement of victim recorded under
Section 164 of CrPC.

Medical report

Advice slip of KCH

USG report along with X-ray
reports with plates.

Vaginal smear report.

Urine for HCG report.

Ejahar

Sketch map.

Undertaking bond regarding zimma
of victim girl to her guardian.
Forwarding letter.

Chargesheet

Exhibit OF Court witness.

: Original Counter foil certificate.
: Admission Register.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
