IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016
(G.R. Case No. 1231 of 2016)
Teok P.S. Case No. 177 of 2016

Transmitting Magistrate:-

Smt. Sharmila Bhuyan,
The then Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat District

State of Assam

Versus

Sri Sanjib Satnami,

Son of Sri Rebo Satnami,

Resident of Hatighuli Santipara,

P.S. Gaurisagar,

District-Sivasagar. ... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Juban Mohan Das, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri Rantu Bora, Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 366 [A] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 8 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM

SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 27-07-2016

Date of prosecution evidence : 04-10-2016; 13-12-2016; 17-02-2017;
18-04-2017 & 13-06-2017

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 27-07-2017
Date of Argument : 06-11-2017
Date of Judgment : 14-11-2017

SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Teok P.S. Case No.
177/2016 under Section 366 [A] of IPC was registered on the basis of an
F.I.R. lodged by Sri Suren Gosai, father of the victim girl [hereinafter referred to
as ‘X’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 06/05/2016 the informant Sri Suren
Gosai [PW-3] who is the father of the victim girl alleged, inter-alia, that on
18/04/2016 while his daughter was returning back from school, she kept her
bicycle alongwith her school bag in the house of one Mantu Bora and thereafter
she went missing. They searched for the victim and received information that the
accused Sri Sanjib Satnami who hails from Gaurisagar Hatighuli under Sivasagar
district has kidnapped his daughter. It is further stated in the ejahar by the
informant that at the time of kidnapping of his daughter by the aforesaid
accused, his daughter’s age was 16 years & 1 month only.

On receipt of the ejahar by the In-charge, Lahdoigarh O.P., the
same was entered in G.D. Entry Register, being No. 114 dated 06/05/2016. The
ejahar was sent to the Officer-in-charge, Teok P.S, who, in turn, registered the
ejahar vide Teok P.S. Case No. 177/2016 under Section 366 [A] of IPC.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was recovered
from the possession of accused from his house. The statement of the victim girl
was recorded by the I.O. of the case. The victim girl was taken before a doctor
for medico legal check-up where she refused to enter medico legal examinataion.
Thereafter, the victim girl was produced before the learned Magistrate for
recording statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. Police on completion of
investigation filed charge-sheet in the case against the above named accused Sri
Sanjib Satnami u/Ss. 366 [A]/376 of IPC as well as 8 of The Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, vide Charge-sheet No. 104/2016 dated
31-05-2016.

2). The then learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jorhat transmitted the case

to this Court for trial as alleged offence are triable by this court only. Copy was

furnished to accused in due course.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016
3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submission of the accused and the
prosecution in this behalf and on finding grounds for presuming that the accused
has committed offences under Section 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 8 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, the charges were framed,
read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded not guilty

and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 09 [nine] numbers of witnesses including
the victim, her mother and father-cum-informant as well as investigating officer
were examined, on behalf of the prosecution, to prove the charge against
accused.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that he did not
kidnap the victim girl; that the victim girl had love affairs with him and she on
her own volition eloped with him. It is further version of the accused that he has
been falsely implicated in the case. He further stated that at the time of incident
the victim was a major girl. The accused pleaded innocence. No witness was

adduced by the accused in his defence.

5). I have heard Sri Juban Mohan Das, learned Special Public Prosecutor
for the State as well as Sri Rantu Bora, learned Counsel for the accused who is
facing trial for commission of offence u/S. 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 8 of
The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on or about 18/04/2016 at Meleng T.E. Tinikunia
Division under Teok P.S., the accused, induced the minor victim
while she was returning back home from school to leave her
parent house or to do any act with intent that she will be forced
or seduced to illicit intercourse against her will and consent and
thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 366 [A]
of IPC?

SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016
2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused named above
committed sexual assault upon the victim girl and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 8 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

7). First of all, let us see the definition of relevant provisions of law to the
charged sections against accused. The sections reads as follows:

Section-366 [A]—Procuration of minor girl — Whoever, by any means
whatsoever, induces any minor girl under the age of eighteen years to
go from any place or to do any act with intent that such girl may be, or
knowing that it is likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse with another person shall be punishable with imprisonment

which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Section-8 — Whoever commits sexual assault shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less
than three years but which may extend to five years, and shall also be

liable to fine.

8). To decide the above points and sections of law against accused in
this case, let us examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses
alongwith the documents.

The victim [PW-1] divulged during her testimony that she knew
the accused from before. On the relevant day while she was returning back from
school she called the accused and when accused arrived near her, she voluntarily
went to the house of accused located at Gaurisagar, Sivasagar district and
resided with him as husband and wife. She categorically stated that she stayed in
the house of accused for about one month. It is further stated by the victim that
she went with the accused on the relevant day without informing her parent. Her

father lodged ejahar before police regarding her missing from the way towards

SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016
her house. It is her further version that police recovered her from the house of
accused, took her before a doctor for medico legal check-up and thereafter she
was also produced before the learned Magistrate for recording statement under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. which she exhibited as Exhibit-1 and her relevant signatures
thereon as Exhibit-1 [1] and Exhibit-1 [2].

During cross-examination, she admitted that accused did not call her
on the relevant day. She denied defence suggestion that she did not stay in the
house of accused as husband and wife. She also denied that she is not 16 years

of age, as told by her in her deposition.

9). PW-2 is Smt. Minu Gosai who is the mother of victim girl. It is
stated by this witness that on the date of incident her daughter went to school to
attend her classes riding her bicycle but she did not return back home. Later on,
the bicycle alongwith the school bag was found in the house of one Sri Mantu
Gosai. It is further stated by this witness that the accused sent message to her
elder daughter that he [accused] had taken away the victim and she is residing
alongwith him. Further version of this witness is that after knowing the fact of
elopement of her daughter with the accused, she went to the house of accused
alongwith her family members but the family members of accused did not allow
them to take away the victim. They came to know that the accused was a
married person. Hence, her husband informed police regarding kidnapping of
their daughter by the accused. Police recovered the victim from the possession of
accused. She was produced before a doctor for medico legal check-up and
thereafter before the Magistrate for recording statement under Section 164
Cr.P.C.

This witness was cross-examined by the defence. During cross-
examination, she divulged that they lodged ejahar before police after five days of
incident as her daughter alongwith the accused had promised to come back. It is
further stated by this witness that due to tension she did not state before police
that accused gave message to the mobile of her elder daughter. She denied
defence suggestion that she did not state before police that herself went to the

house of accused at Gaurisagar on the next day of missing of her daughter; that

SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016
accused was a married person prior to the date of incident and further that

accused did not kidnap her daughter and took her to his house at Gaurisagar.

10). Sri Suren Gosai [PW-3] is the father of victim-cum-informant of the
case. This witness during his testimony deposed almost alike as that of his wife
Smt. Minu Gosai [PW-2]. He lodged ejahar before police vide Exhibit-2. Police
recovered his daughter from the possession of accused, his daughter was
medically examined by a doctor and was also produced before the Magistrate for
recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

This witness during cross-examination admitted that he did not state
before police that accused gave message to his family; that the accused had
married someone else before the incident and that he had conversation with the
victim [PW-1] after she came to Jorhat court to give her statement before the
learned Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

11). The evidence of Sri Mantu Borah [PW-4] and Smt. Moni Borah
[PW-5] who are the parent of victim's friend is to the effect that on the relevant
day parent of victim arrived at their house and questioned about their daughter.
The victim then left the bicycle in their house. Sri Mantu Borah further deposed
that when he returned back home at about 2.30 P.M. at that time the
grandfather of victim arrived at their house and took the bicycle from their house
by telling that victim is missing from their house.

Both these witnesses during cross-examination stated that they do

not know anything regarding the incident.

12). Miss Kalyani Borah [PW-6] is the classmate of the victim [PW-1].
It is deposed by this witness that on the date of incident she was not present in
her house. Victim used to keep her bicycle in their house prior to the date of
incident. Further version of this witness is that on the next day when she
returned back home her mother stated to her that on the previous day victim
arrived at their house, kept her bicycle and told before her mother that she is
proceeding towards Lahdoigarh but she did not return back to their house to take

her bicycle.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016
During cross-examination, this witness admitted that she did not
study with the victim in the L.P. School and further that she does not know
anything about the incident.

13). Sri Biswa Rajbor [PW-7] who is the scribe of the ejahar [Exhibit-2]
stated that he wrote the F.I.R. as per version of the informant Sri Suren Gosai
[PW-3]. He read over the contents to the informant and thereafter informant put
his thumb impression in the ejahar which he proved as Exhibit-2 [1] by putting
his endorsement below the thumb impression of the informant. It is further
stated by this witness that police seized the school certificate of the victim on
being produced by the informant vide seizure-list [Exhibit-3] wherein Exhibit-3
[1] is his signature.

During cross-examination, this witness stated that he accompanied
police to Gaurisagar but he does not know wherefrom police recovered the victim
girl as he did not enter into the house of accused. He has categorically stated
that delay in lodging the ejahar has not been explained to him by the informant

[PW-3], for which, he has not written the same in the ejahar.

14). Md. Samsuddin [PW-8] is the I.0. of the case. It is his version that
on 06/05/2016 while he was working as Attached Officer at Lahdoigarh O.P.
under Teok P.S. on that day the then In-charge, Lahdoigarh O.P. received one
ejahar from the informant Sri Rajen Gosai which was entered in G.D. Entry
Register vide No. 114 dated 06/05/2016. The F.I.R. was sent to Teok P.S. for
registration of a case under proper section of law. The then Officer-in-charge,
Teok P.S. registered Teok P.S. Case No. 177/2016 and he was entrusted with the
investigation of the case. During investigation, he examined the informant,
visited the place of occurrence and searched the victim together with the
accused and recovered the victim from the possession of accused from
Gaurisagar. Victim was produced before a doctor for medico legal checkup but
she refused. Thereafter, the victim was produced before a Magistrate for
recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. He also deposed that he seized
one school certificate of the victim on being produced by the informant vide

seizure-list [Exhibit-3] wherein Exhibit-3 [2] is his signature. He also drew Sketch

SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016
Map of the place of occurrence with index vide Exhibit-4 wherein Exhibit-4 [1] is
his relevant signature. Further version of the I.O. is that he showed the accused

as absconder in the charge-sheet.

15). Sri Biren Chandra Borah [PW-9] is the Headmaster of Meleng
Girls’ High School. This witness during his testimony stated that he has brought
the original Admission register of his school and exhibited the same of the victim
vide Exhibit-A wherein Exhibit-A [1] is the relevant entry for the year 2015. He
also stated that date of birth of the victim is 30/11/2000 as per admission
register which was produced by the father of victim at the time of taking
admission in the school. He exhibited the original certificate to be Material
Exhibit-1.

During cross-examination, this witness stated that at the time of
admission of a new student in his school they take a certificate from the earlier
institute and those certificates are maintained in the records of their school which
he has not brought. The victim did not complete her matriculation examination
from his school. He admitted that Material Exhibit-1 was issued at the request of
the guardian of the victim and also that he has used different pens to fill up the
different columns in Exhibit-A [1].

16). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that the

victim knew the accused from before as she had love affair with him.

17). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. stated
that victim came to him voluntarily and at present the victim is staying in her

parental home.

18). The victim [PW-1] admitted in her evidence that she accompanied
the accused to his house located at Gaurisagar after calling him and resided
there for about one month as husband and wife. She did not reveal in her
statement that accused had sexual intercourse with her on her protest or

anything. Victim further stated that she went alongwith the accused after

SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016
returning back from school. She called the accused and thereafter both of them

proceeded towards the house of accused.

19). On close scrutiny of the Students’ Admission Register [proved in
original] nowhere it is seen that the Headmaster has reflected the date of birth of
the victim and other students who took admission in his school at the relevant
point of time. Sri Biren Chandra Borah [PW-9], Headmaster of Meleng Girls’ High
School during his cross-examination stated that Material Exhibit-1 was issued at

the request of the guardian of the said student.

20). Now again coming to the evidence of victim [PW-1] it is seen that
she was produced before a doctor by police who had examined her. But the I.O.
[PW-8] gave statement that victim was produced before a doctor but she refused

to enter medico legal examination.

21). Learned counsel for the accused submits that there is no explanation
as to the delay in lodging of the ejahar by the informant [PW-3]. Cross-
examination of Smt. Minu Gosai [PW-2] who is the mother of victim reveals that
they informed police about the incident after about five days of incident as
accused and her daughter [PW-1] had promised to come back. But the
informant-cum-father of victim Sri Suren Gosai [PW-3] did not say anything to
this effect. Sri Biswa Rajbor [PW-7] who is the scribe of the ejahar has deposed
that he has not written as to the delay in lodging of the ejahar by the informant

as informant did not state anything before him.

22). Flip-flop evidence has been tendered by the victim [PW-1]. On
appreciation of the evidence on record as well as other facts and circumstances
of the case, it is found that there is no any allegation of forceful abduction of the
victim girl by the accused. The parent of the victim [PW-2 & PW-3] divulged that
on the date of incident their daughter went on missing from the house. Later on,
they came to know that the accused had taken away their daughter to his house

and married her.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016
10

Similarly, the victim girl has narrated the fact during examination
that as on the relevant day she accompanied the accused to his house from the
road after the accused met her on being so called by the victim. Victim
categorically deposed in her evidence under Section 164 Cr.P.C. that she stayed
with accused in his house as wife and husband for about one month. She did not

specifically depose that accused induced her to leave the house of her parent.

23). On scrutinizing the evidence on record it is seen that no case has
been made out against accused Sri Sanjib Satnami to warrant his conviction
under Section 366 [A] IPC as well as under Section 8 of The Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, as victim stated nothing in her
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. [Exhibit-1] as well as evidence before the
Court on 04/10/2016 that accused had physical relation with her during her stay
in the house of the accused. Prosecution has not been able to make out a case
against the accused Sri Sanjib Satnami under the aforesaid sections of law
beyond reasonable doubt, for which, I am of the opinion that the accused is
entitled to acquittal under benefit of doubt which I accordingly do.

Bail bond of accused is extended for the next 06 [six] months
under Section 437-A Cr.P.C.

24). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 14th day of
November 2017.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-11

SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016

10
11

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW-1 Victim girl.
PW-2 Smt. Minu Gosai, mother of victim of the case.
PW-3 Sri Suren Gosai, father-cum-informant of the case.
PW-4 Sri Mantu Borah, Homeguard.
PW-5 Smt. Moni Borah, housewife.
PW-6 Miss Kalyani Borah, classmate of victim
PW-7 Sri Biswa Rajbor, casual worker-cum-scribe of the
ejahar.
PW-8 Md. Samsuddin, I.0. of the case.
PW-9 Sri Biren Chandra Borah, Headmaster, Meleng Girls’
High School.

 

 

 

COURT WITNESS:- NIL
EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Statement of the victim recorded by the Magistrate
under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Seizure-list

Exhibit-4 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index

Exhibit-A Admission Register of victim

 

MATERIAL EXHIBIT NO-1:- NIL

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016 1 1
SPECIAL CASE NO. 34 OF 2016

12

12
