Page 1 of 16

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s

313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

15 OF 2015

( Section 4 of the POCSO Act, arising out
of G.R. Case No. 1185 of 2015)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS

Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam
-Vs-
Rajibur Rahman @ Rajibul Islam
Son of Md. Giasuddin
Resident of No.2 Bosa Simolu
Police Station — Dhekiajuli
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
22/07/2015
14/08/2015, 17/09/2015,
10/03/2016, 08/09/16

30/09/2016.

01/12/2016.

06/12/2016

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. S. Khan, Advocate.
Page 2 of 16

JUDGMENT
1. In this case the accused Md. Rajibur Rahman @ Rajibul Islam is put for
trial u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.
2. The factual matrix of the case in brief is that on or about 2 P.M. of

22/5/2015, the wife of Rajibur Islam came to informant house requested her to
go to their home. Accordingly informant went there. While accused & wife went
out, accused caught hold informant and committed rape on her. The next
incident took place at about 8 p.m, while informant’s parent were having their
dinner. The informant was in their court-yard then accused went there, gagged
her mouth took her to nearby Jute cultivation area, fell her down and

committed rape on her forcefully. Hence this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the complainant Rajibur Islam before the I/C of
Borsola police O/P, the I/C Borsola Police O/P by giving G.D Entry No. 416
dated 23/5/15 at 5.30 p.m. forwarded the same to O/C Dhekiajuli P.S for
registering a case. On received the ejahar the O/C Dhekiajuli P.S. registered the
case vide Dhekiajuli Case No. 291/15 under Section 376 of the IPC read with
under Section 4 of POCSO Act. On completion of investigation, the O/C of
Dhekiajuli PS sent up the case for trial.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, my learned
predecessor-in-Court, after hearing both parties, framed charge under section 4
of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused and particulars of the charge was read
over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not guilty and claims to be
tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 8 (eight)
numbers of witnesses which includes the informant, victim, other witnesses and

the Investigating Officer.

 
Page 3 of 16

6. After completion of prosecution evidence accused is examined u/s 313
Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and evidence appears
against the accused are put before him for explanation where he denied the

evidence and allegation and declined to give defence evidence.

7. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of both
sides.
8. The point for decision in this case is that:

Whether on or about 2 p.m. of 22/05/2015 at night at 8 p.m., at
Nisalamari Nonke, Borsola in the house of the accused and in the jute
field under Dhekiajuli,PS accused committed penetrative sexual assault
on Miss X (victim) and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 4 of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on
record.

10. PW -1 Dr. Sangetta Sarma stated before the Court she was posted as
Medical & Health Officer- 1 in the Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that
day at about 1.30 p.m. at Emergency OPD, in the labour room complex of KCH,
she examined Miss Rabanu Khatoon, 15 years, female, D/O Md. Jalaluddin of
village Nisolamari Non K, PS Dhekiajuli, in reference to Dhekiajuli PS Case No.
292/15 u/s 376 of IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, OPD No. 6412/15 dated
25/05/15, on being escorted and identified by Woman Home Guard Bina Borah
of Dhekiajuli PS. She was examined in presence of staff Sister Jyoti Prabha. On
examination she found the following:
Consent for examination was taken from the victim girl as well as grand-
mother.
Menstrual history- LMP- the victim does not remember Sexual Exposure history-
sexual Exposure present o Ajibur Islam of Borsola on 22-05-15.
Identification mark- a small mole on the left side above the upper lip.
Height- 146 cm., Weight- 35 Kg, Teeth 7/7, 7/7.

 
Page 4 of 16

At the time of examination, she was neat dressed, clean and tidy. Her gait was
normal, secondary sexual characters developed. Vulva and vagina healthy.
Hymen was absent.

No marks of injury or violence on her private as well as other body parts.
Investigation advised and reports-

1. Vaginal smear for spermatozoa — no sperm seen. Done on 25.05.15 at
KCH Lab vide Lab No. 55/15.

2, Urine for pregnancy test — negative. Done on 25/05/15 at Assam X-ray
Clinic & laboratory, Patient ID No. 24608 by Dr. D. Mahanta, Pathologist.

3. USG Pelvis — normal pelvic organs. Non gravid uterus.

4. X-ray for age determination — Age of the person under investigation is
below 18 years.

OPINION:

1. No sign or symptom of recent sexual intercourse at the time of
examination.

2 No mark of violence or injury on her private as well as other parts.

3 Age of the victim is below 18 years as per radiological evidence.

4. No other injury.

5 She is not pregnant.

6 As per history given by her she was sexually exposed to some Ajibur
Islam of Borsola.

Ext. 1 is the medical report and Ext. 1 (1) is his signature.

In cross- examination she admitted that she has assessed the age of
the victim as per report of the radiologist. She has not assessed the age of
herself.

11. = PW-2 Alimuddin stated that he knows the accused Md. Rajibur Rahman
@ Rajibul Islam. He also knows the victim Rabhbanu Khatoon. The incident
took place about 2 % months ago. On the next day of the incident, Jalaludin
informed him that the accused committed rape on his daughter, Rabhbanu
Khatoon in the Jute cultivation filed at about 8 p.m. Jalaludin was accompanied
by her daughter Rabhbanu Khatoon, his wife and others. He asked them to go

to Police Station.

 
Page 5 of 16

In cross examination he stated that he does not remember the date on

which he was informed by Jalaludin about the incident. He has not seen the
incident himself. He does not have any personal knowledge about the incident.
He does not know whether such incident happened or not.
12. PW- 3 Lalchand Das has stated that he does not know the accused but
he knows her father. He also knows the victim Rupbhanu @ Rabhbanu
Khatoon. He is the daughter of Jalaluddin. The incident took place about 2 12
months ago. On the next day of the incident, Jalaluddin informed him that son
of Giasuddin committed raped her daughter Rabhbanu Khatoon in the Jute
cultivation filed at about 8 p.m. Jalaluddin was accompanied by her daughter
Rabhbanu Khatoon, her wife and others. He asked them to go to Police Station
to lodge an FIR.

In cross-examination he stated that he does not remember the date on
which the incident occurred. He has not seen the incident herself. He does not
have any personal knowledge about the incident. He does not know whether

such incident happened or not.

13. | PW- 4 Jalaluddin has stated that he knows the accused. He does not
remember his name. Victim Rupbhanu @ Rabhbanu Khatoon is his daughter.
The incident took place about 3 months ago. On the day of occurrence, he was
at home taking meal. At about 8 p.m. his daughter went outside of his house.
He came back at about 9 p.m. and informed him and his wife that the accused
took her to the Jute field and committed rape on her by removing her pant.

In cross-examination, she admitted that at that time in his house he
along with his wife was there. There are two houses near his house. One house
is of Farad Ali and other one house is Mahammad. There are 9 members in the
house of Mahammad and 2 members in the house of Farad Ali. They used to
move around through our courtyard. On the day of occurrence, they were also
in their respective houses. The house of the accused is in western side of his
house. The jute field is 50 yards away from his house and the house of the
accused is adjacent to the field. The parents of the accused were also present
in his house at the time of occurrence. They used to visit the house of the
accused. He also used to visit their house. He along with his wife used to go for

work daily but his daughter remains in his house. His wife does household

 
Page 6 of 16

works and his daughter also helps her mother. Their family members used to
take dinner together. On the day of incident, at about 8 p.m. he took dinner
along with his wife. When their daughter did not return back, they went to
search her. When they came back they found their daughter in their house. She
was out about 1 to 2 hours. He also scolded his daughter. In connection with
this incident, there was a meeting in their village and in that meeting the
matter was settled. His daughter was also present in the meeting. Now, after
the settlement of the matter we were living peacefully.

14. PW- 5 (Miss- X), the victim of this case stated that she knows accused
Rajibul @ Rajibur. The incident occurred three months ago. The incident
occurred at night at about 8 p.m. when she went out to wash her hands after
taking dinner. Her mother and father were taking dinner. The accused then
came and gagged her mouth with Gamosa and picked her up and took her to
Jute field. The accused made her lie down on field. She was wearing frock and
pant. The accused removed her clothes and inserted her private part into her
private. This is their language is known as (Maan mara’). When accused was
leaving she catch accused by snatching her “gangee” but accused left and piece
of gangee cloth remained in her hand. She came back to her house by shouting
and informed her parents about her incident. Next day she went to Borsola
Police Out Post and lodged an FIR. The FIR was written by a person at Borsola
Cente, she does not know his name. The FIR was written as per her instruction.
She was taken to Hospital at Tezpur and thereafter she was produced in the
court for recording her statement. Her statement was recorded by a Magistrate
she has stated all mere facts before Magistrate. At that time her age was 15
years.

In cross-examination, she admitted that examination she does not know
her date of birth. She has stated her age as 15 years on her guess. Accused
was in their Farm house for about 15 day prior to the incident. The Farm house
of the accused is about three houses away from their house. The jute field of
the accused is near the farm house of the accused. Accused use to do work in
the jute field. Her father use to go out to work her mother and herself remain
in her house. The family member of accused use to visit her house, they also

use to go to their house. The accused went to work at Kerala. She has not

 
Page 7 of 16

seen the accused before the incident. They do not have electricity in our house.
They use to take their dinner together but on the day of incident she took food
earlier than her parents. She served her food to her mother & father and she
went out. There are about 8-9 persons lining in two houses near her house.
She was taken from near the tube well of her house to the jute field. The
accused took her near about 1 Km away from her house. She does not stop in
between. As police did not enquired from her house she does not stated before
Police that she was picked up by the accused. The accused forcibly opened her
clothes. The jute cultivation was full grown. The jute Plants were planted very
near to each other. She protested for about 6-7 minutes. She suffered injury on
her breast and nowhere else. She has not shown her injury to Police. She does
not tell her doctor about her injury. On the day of incident it was dark and
accused came from back side. The accused was going to jute field silently.
The “Gangee” of accused was seized by Police. Police did not seize her clothes.
He has not stated before Police that accused removed her frock & pant. She

has not stated before Police as to who wrote her FIR.

15. PW-6 Jamir Ali stated that he knows the accused and victim. The
incident took place 9 month ago the father of Rupbhanu came to their house
and reported that Rajibul islam committed rape upon Rupbhanu.

In cross-examination he admitted that his house is situated a distance
of 1 Km from the house of Rupbhanu. The father of Rupbhanu came to their

home at about 10 O’ clock in the morning. Then they went to Police Station.

16. PW-7 Sulema Khatoon, the mother of victim stated that at the relevant
time her daughter after having dinner went to tube well. After about 1 hour she
returned to home. After coming to home she reported to her that accused after
gagging her mouth committed rape on her.

In cross-examination she admitted that Rajibul was known to them just
two months ago. She is not aware whether her daughter went to the house of
the accused or not. For doing service she always went out. Similarly her
husband also went to do labour. She further admitted as the Rupbhanu did not

return home so she went out to charge her. She admitted that for that incident

 
Page 8 of 16

a village meeting was held and at last she stated that due to misunderstanding

the ejahar was filed.

17. PW-8 Sri Ajit Kr. Bhuyan, the I.O. has stated that on 23/05/15 he was
posted at Borchala Police Out Post under Dhekiajuli Police Station as In-Charge
of the OP. On that day, at about 5.30 p.m. he received one FIR from Miss Rob
Banu Khatoon, D/O Md. Jalaluddin of village Nisalamari Nonke alleging that on
the previous at about 2 p.m. wife of the Rajibul Islam came to her house and
called to his house. After his entrance she came out and her husband Rajibul
caught hold of her and committed rape on her. Thereafter, at night at about 8
p.m. while her parents taken back to their house and when he was at their
court-yard the accused came and by gagging his mouth by a Gamosa took her
to a Jute field and committed rape on her. Thereafter, he returned to his house
by shouting and the incident reported to the villages.

After receiving the ejahar, he made GD Entry vide Borsola OP GD Entry
No. 416 dated 23/05/15 at about 5.30 pm. and forwarded the same to O/C of
Dhekiajuli PS for registering a case. Inspector Tileswar Saikia, O/C Dhekiajuli PS
registered a case being Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 292/15 u/s 376 of the IPC r/w
section 4 of the POCSO Act. Ext 2 is the said FIR and Ext. 2 (1) is his signature
with note and Ext. 2 (2) is the signature of Inspector Tileswar Saikia, O/C
Dhekiajuli PS with his note, which is known to him on communication. He
recorded the statement of the victim at the police Out Post on 23/05/15. Next
day i.e. 24/05/15 he visited the place of occurrence, i.e. the house of the victim
at Nichalamari and prepared a sketch map of the place of occurrence. Ext. 3 is
the sketch map and Ext. 3 (1) is his signature. He also recorded the statement
of the witnesses available at the place of occurrence. Thereafter, he enquired
the accused and visited the house of the accused and he was not found. On
25/05/15 he sent the victim Rob Banu Khatoon for medical examination and
sent to the court for recording his statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

On 25/05/15 he arrested the accused Rajibur Islam @ Rajibul Islam and
forwarded him to the court for judicial custody. After collecting the medical
report and having found sufficient materials against the accused he filed the
charge sheet against the accused u/s 376 IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act.

 
Page 9 of 16

Ext. 4 is the charge sheet and Ext. 4 (1) is his signature. He cannot say about
the enclosures of the medical report at present.

In cross-examination he admitted that the ejahar was presented to him
in the Out Post at about 5.30 p.m. At the time of filing the ejahar, he was in his
duty at the Out Post. The victim came to the Out Post alone. He does not call
any of the family members of the victim/informant. O/C Dhekiajuli PS sent the
ejahar to learned Magistrate on 25/05/15. He has not made the wife of the
accused as a witness in this case. The scribe of the ejahar was Raman Das. He
has also not made him as a witness in this case.From the sketch map it came to
know that there were paddy fields surrounding the place of occurrence. He has
not seen any jute plantation at the place of occurrence. In the ejahar the
informant stated that he was raped by the accused for two times on the day of
occurrence. He has not collected any age certificate from the parents of the
victim or from the village headman. He has not seized any clothes from the
accused. He has not recorded the statement of Radiologist.

Case record does not bear the documents like Radiological report, USG
report, Urine for pregnancy test report, advice slip etc.He sent the victim girl to
the court and he is escorted by Home Guard Bina Borah. He brought the
accused to the Police Out Post at about 7 a.m. after having found him in his
house and on the same day he was forwarded to the court for judicial custody.
He has not conducted any TIP. The victim/complainant did not state before him
that the accused inserted his private parts into her private parts.He has not

been informed the Special Court about the incident.

18. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence plea is

total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

19. Learned counsel for accused submitted that prosecution has failed to
prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt because. Firstly there is no any
corroborative statement of witnesses. Secondly, the mother of the victim
herself admitted that due to misunderstanding the case was filed. Thirdly the
witness stated different time of the alleged occurrence in their deposition.

Fourthly Dr. stated that (a) No sign or symptom of recent sexual intercourse at

 
Page 10 of 16

the time of examination. (b) No mark of violence or injury on her private parts
as well as other parts of the body. (c) Age of the victim is below 18 years as
per radiological evidence (d) No other injury. (e) The victim is not pregnant.
Fifthly none of the witness describe the incident as stated by the complainant in
FIR. Sixthly, if the evidence of victim is belief that accused took her to full
grown Jute field and committed rape her by felling her down on the jute field
then she might have sustained injury at least to some extent. According to
doctor but not a single injury sustained by her which is not at all possible.
Lastly, PW 4 the father of the victim stated that they have compromised the

matter at village level.

20. On the other hand, learned counsel Public Prosecutor submitted that
prosecution as ably proved the charge beyond any reasonable doubt as such

required to be convicted.

21. Keeping in mind the argument advanced by learned counsel for both

parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

22. It is a settled legal position that once the statement of prosecutrix
inspires confidence and is accepted by the court as such, the conviction can be
based only on the solitary evidence of the prosecution and no corroboration
would be required unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate the
court for corroboration of her statement. Corroboration of testimony of the
prosecutrix as a condition for Judicial reliance is not a requirement of law but a
guidance of prudence under the given facts and circumstances. Minor
contradictions or insignificant discrepancies should not be a ground for throwing
out an otherwise reliable prosecution case. A prosecutrix complaining of having
been a victim of the offence of rape is not an accomplice after the crime. Her
testimony has to be appreciated on the principle of probabilities just as the
testimony of any other witness, a high degree of probability having been shown
to exist in view of the subject matter being a criminal charge. However, if the
court finds it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix on its face value,
it may search for evidence, direct or substantial, which may lend assurance to

her testimony.

 
Page 11 of 16

Leaving this aspect of the matter aside for a while, I am taking out another
aspect of the matter. Here in this case the ejahar was lodged by the
complainant on the next day of the incident by victim herself. Immediately,
after receipt of the ejahar, the I/C of Borsola Police Out Post after giving GD
Entry took the charge of investigation by sending the original FIR to O/C
Dhekiajuli Police Station. On receipt of the ejahar, the O/C Dhekiajuli Police
Station registered the case vide Dhekiajuli PS case No. 291/15 u/s 376 of the
IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act. On that very day she was medically
examined but after thorough examination the doctor opined that 1. No sign or
symptom of recent sexual intercourse at the time of examination. 2. No mark of
violence or injury on her private as well as other body parts.3. Age of the victim
is below 18 years as per radiological evidence. 4. No other injury.5. She is not
pregnant and 6. As per history given by her she was sexually exposed to some
Ajibur Islam of Borsola. Therefore, the medical report submitted by the Doctor

on the very day of the incident stated nothing about the sexual intercourse.

23. ‘The law is settled that the onus is always on the prosecution to prove
affirmatively each ingredients of offence it seeks to establish and such onus
never shifts. It is the duty of the defence to explain as to how and why ina
rape case the victim and her mother falsely implicated the accused. The main
evidence in all such cases is that of the victim herself, in practice a conviction
for rape almost entirely depends on the credibility of the woman, so far as the
essential ingredients are concerned, the other evidence being merely
corroborative. It is not necessary that there should be independent
corroboration of every material circumstances in the sense that the
independent evidence in the case, apart from the testimony of the victim,
should in itself be sufficient to sustain conviction. All that is required is that
there must be some additional evidence rendering it probable that the story of

the victim is true and that it is reasonably safe to act upon it.

24. Learned counsel for the accused vehemently argued that had the victim
been really raped by the accused in the jute cultivation area where the jute

were fully grown. The victim might have sustained injury atleast some injury on

 
Page 12 of 16

her body. But here in the present case as stated above, there is no injury

sustained by the victim as per medical report.

25. It has been held in Babu 1984 Cr.L.J. (NOC)74 Rajasthan that - “ if
the victim is unwilling to yield to sexual intercourse she is expected to receive
injuries on her persons. The absence of injuries on the body of the prosecutrix,
generally give rise to an inference that she was consenting party to koitas
where the prosecutrix received multiple injuries on the various parts of her
body, it indicates that she offered resistance when she was stopped to sexual

intercourse.”

But in the instant case as stated above, no injury mark seen by the
doctor not only on the private parts or any of the organ of the victim. As stated
above, the victim is the prime witness in the present case. According to victim
(PW 5) there are two incidents of allegation of rape. The first incident took
place at about 8 p.m. when she went out to wash her hands after taking
dinner. Her mother and father were taking dinner. The accused then came and
gagged her mouth with Gamosa and picked her up and took her to Jute field.
The accused made her lie down on field. She was wearing frock and pant. The
accused removed her clothes and inserted her private part into her private
parts. When accused was leaving she catch accused by snatching her “ganjee”
but accused left and piece of ganjee cloth remained in her hand. She came
back to her house by shouting and informed her parents about her incident. In
the instant case she went to Borsola Police Out Post and lodged an FIR.
Thereafter, her statement was recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C. But according to 164
Cr.P.C. the accused committed rape in two times. At the first time she was
called by the wife of the accused to the house of the accused when she arrived
at the house of the accused, wife of the accused left the house and accused fell
her down on the bed and committed rape by opening her Payjama. He also
opened his lungi. Then she returned to her house. The another incident took
place at night when she went out to wash her hands after taking dinner. Her
mother and father were taking dinner. The accused then came and gagged her
mouth with Gamosa and picked her up and took her to Jute field and

committed rape on her. Therefore, the statement of the victim is not

 
Page 13 of 16

corroborated with her own statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Besides, in the
FIR lodged by the complainant she stated that at about 2 p.m. accused's wife
came to their home, enticing her to their home, while she reached at the house
of the accused, accused’s wife suddenly came out then accused committed rape
on her. Second incident took place at night at about 8 p.m. when her mother
and father having dinner. She was in the court-yard. Accused suddenly
appeared, gagged her mouth with Gamosa and picked her up and took her to
Jute field and committed rape on her. In the meantime she hold her “gangee”
but accused left and piece of gangee cloth remained in her hand. She came
back to her house. But in her evidence before the Court she made allegation of
rape against the accused which occurred at night at about 8 p.m. She has not
stated about the incident of 2 p.m. as stated in the FIR which is contradictory
to the FIR.

26. Another point raised by learned counsel for the accused is that
according to the victim on the day of her deposition at Court, her age was 15
years. On the other hand, in her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she also stated that
her age was 15 years on 25-05-2015. But there is no any birth certificate or
school registration certificate collected by the I.O. at the time of investigation.
PW4, the father of the victim stated nothing about the age of the victim at the
relevant time of occurrence, but according to the doctor who made opinion of
the age of the victim after proper medical examination stated that she was
below 18 years of age. Therefore the exact age of the victim cannot be

ascertained.

In Jaya Mala V. Home Secretary, Government of Jammu and
Kashir, reported in AIR 1982 SC 1297 had observed that “the age of the
victim girl may be assessed two years plus or minus on either side upon the

age as opined by the doctor.”

Here in the present case, the doctor opined that the victim is below 18
years. Therefore, in view of the aforesaid mandates at the time of alleged
occurrence, the victim may be above 18 years of age so she cannot be stated

to be a minor.

 
Page 14 of 16

Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the complainant has
filed this case against the accused initially as there is an enmity against the
accused’s family. Admittedly, there is no any evidence that complainant or
accused has any enmity or quarrel, however it has been held in In Raju &
Others Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (AIR 2009 SC 858), the Hon’ble
Supreme Court has held that -

“ordinarily the evidence of a prosecutrix should not be suspected
and should be believed, more so as her statement has to be
evaluated on par with that of an injured witness and if the
evidence is reliable, no corroboration is necessary”. The court
however, further observed — '/t cannot be lost sight of that rape
causes the greatest distress and humiliation to the victim but at
the same time a false allegation of rape can cause equal distress,
humiliation and damage to the accused as well. The accused
must also be protected against the possibility of false implication.
There is no presumption of any basis for assuming that the
statement of such a witness is always correct or without any

embellishment or exaggeration.

27. Another point is to be discussed in the present case is that PW 7 Sulema
Khatoon, the mother of the victim, herself admitted in cross-examination that
after the incident there was a village meeting where they compromised the
matter. Besides, she also admitted that the ejahar was filed due to

misunderstanding.

28. In view of the aforesaid discussion on the basis of the evidence on
record, the allegation of penetrative sexual assault or rape on the victim is
doubtful and the evidence of the prosecutrix does not inspire confidence for

recording a conviction u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.

29. The onus of proving the facts essential to the establishment of the charge
against the accused lies upon the prosecutrix, and the evidence must be such
as to exclude every reasonable doubt about the guilt of the accused. An

accused can not be convicted of an offence on the basis of conjecture and

 
Page 15 of 16

suspicion. After taking into consideration, the entire material before it regarding

complicity of the accused, the benefit of such doubt is given to the accused.

30. Under such circumstances, the accused Md. Rajibur Rahman @ Rajibul
Islam is acquitted on benefit of doubt and set him at liberty forthwith.
31. =‘ The liabilities of the bailor is hereby discharged.

32. Let the G.R Case No. 1185/15 be sent to Ld. committal Court along
with a copy of Judgment.

33. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 6th day of
December, 2016.

(A.K. Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(A.K. Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
NM oo Er oe Ge I

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4

Page 16 of 16

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- Dr. Sangeeta sarmah, M.O.
:- Alimuddin,

:- Lalchand Das,

:- Jalaluddin,

i Victim.

i- Jamir Ali.

- Sulema Khatoon.

i= Sri Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, I.O.

EXHIBITS.

- Medical report
= FIR

- Sketch map

'- Chargesheet.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
