Spl POCSO 33/16.
State of Assam. sii: Complainant.

-Vs-
Baruala Goala @ Sujit, ss... Accused person.
S/O Sri Sadananda Goala.
Itachera T.E.
P.S. Udarbond.Cachar.
ORDER
Dated 16-02-17.

Accused is present. Three P.Ws including the victim and complainant are
present. They are examined. Ld. Defence counsel has declined to cross-examine the
witnesses. Hence they are discharged. Considering the nature of evidence learned P.P.
has submitted for closure of the prosecution evidence on the ground that examination of
accused any further witness would not in any way improve the prosecution case.
Sufficient force is found in the submission. Hence, evidence is closed. I would like to
dispose of the case under provision of Sec 232 Cr.P.C. Accused is examined .Heard
argument of both sides.

In the instance case charge was framed U/S 8 of POCSO Act on the accusation
that on 19-09-16 at about 12’0clock noon the accused committed sexual assault on the
victim. The charge when read out denied by the accused.

P.W.1 is the complainant, the father of the victim. According to him out of
misunderstanding he lodged the complaint against the accused. Ext-1 is the FIR. He
further deposed that he cannot say the contents of the FIR and he had no grievance
against the accused.

P.W.2 the mother of the victim. According to her both the victim and the
accused are cousin and at the material time quarrel between them picked up and out of
misunderstanding her husband lodged FIR.

P.W.3 is the victim who deposed that accused is her cousin and there had
been some stain relation in between her father and the accused and she cannot
remember actually what happened and presently she has no grievance against the
accused.

From the above, it reveals that there is nothing comes out against the
accused to establish the allegation of any sexual assault. That being so, the prosecution
charge is held to be not proved at all for want of implicating evidence. Accused is thus
held to be not guilty of the offence as chargedor whatsoever and he is therefore acquitted
and set at liberty forthwith.

Bail bond stands discharged.

This order of acquittal is pronounced and delivered in the open Court under my
seal & signature of this Court on this 16" day of February, 2017.

Special Judge.
Cachar, Silchar.
