IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE trrttrsstrsstitt: NALBARI

Present: Smti Sharmila Bhuyan
Special Judge
Nalbari.

Spl (P) CASE NO : 32/17
u/s-323 IPC R/W section 12 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Sadananda Kalita.

S/O-Late Kanteswar Kalita.

R/o, Vill-Haribhanga (Pachim Bhoira),

PS-Tihu, Dist-Nalbari  sssssessesseees Accused person

Appearance :-

For the prosecution : Mr. K. Sarma, Special PP
For the defence : Mr. A. Mazid, Advocate.
Date of institution of the case : 10/06/17.

Date of framing charge : 26/09/18.

Date of evidence : 08/03/19 & 15/06/19.
Statement of accused recorded : 27/11/19.

Date of Argument : 27/11/19.

Judgment Delivered : 11/12/19.

JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution as revealed from the ejahar lodged by Smt.
Rita Kalita W/O- Sri Sadananda Kalita of village Haribhanga (Paschim Bhoira) is

that accused Sadananda (her husband) tried to commit sexual assault with her

daughter Miss 'X' from many days ago and harassed her by using slang language.

On 09/06/17 at 10:30 pm her husband assaulted her for restraining him from

committing sexual harassment to her daughter. The accused also pulled her

daughter towards dark place but somehow she saved her daughter from the

clutches of her husband. Hence, the case.

Spl (P) Case No:32/117 1 of 6
2. On receipt of the ejahar O/C Tihu PS registered Tihu PS case no.82/17
u/s-325 IPC r/w sec. 8/12 of the POCSO Act and entrusted SI K.C Sarma with
the investigation. During investigation, he visited place of occurrence, recorded
statement of the informant, victim and other witnesses, drawn sketch map of the
place of occurrence and after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet
against the accused Sadananda Kalita u/s-323 IPC and section 12 of the POCSO
Act.

3. On receipt of the charge sheet my then learned predecessor took
cognizance and issued process to the accused and after furnishing copies to the
accused, framed charge u/s-323 IPC read with section 12 of the POCSO Act
against the accused Sadananda Kalita and when charges are read over and

explained to the accused he pleaded not guilty and stood for trial.

4. In order to prove the charge against the accused person, prosecution
altogether adduces evidence of 4 numbers of witnesses including informant,
victims. and exhibited 5 numbers of documents. PW-1, Miss 'X', PW-2, Smt. Rita
Kalita, PW-3, Sri Mrigen Kalita and PW-4 Dr. Nripen Das. Ext-1 Statement of
victim u/s-164 CrPC, Ext-2 Seizure list, Ext-3 Ejahar, Ext-4 Medical report and Ext-
5 also medical report. After closures of the evidence of the prosecution,
statement of the accused Sadananda Kalita recorded u/s-313 Cr.P.C and accused
plea is total denial however he declined to adduce evidence in support of his plea

of denial.

5s POINTS FOR DETERMINATIONS ARE:-

(i) Whether accused Sadananda Kalita on 09/06/2017 at about 10:30 pm
at Haribhanga (Paschim Bhoira) village under Tihu PS_ voluntarily caused hurt to
Miss Rita Kalita ?

(ii) Whether accused Sadananda Kalita on 09/06/17 and since long back
at Haribhanga (Paschim Bhoira) village under Tihu PS committed sexual

harassment upon his minor daughter Miss 'X', aged about 16 years ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

Spl (P) Case No:32/117 2 of 6
6. I have heard argument of both sides. Scrutinized evidence and material
on record. The prosecution charge against the accused Sadananda Kalita is u/s-
323 IPC and section 12 of the POCSO Act. Therefore, prosecution must bring on
record that accused voluntarily caused hurt on the person of Miss 'X' and her
mother and did any act, utter word, show picture with sexual fervor and sexual

intent.

7 Learned defence counsel contended statement of PW-1, the victim of the
case and statement of her mother and brother not show accused using any
words showing any picture with sexual fervor to PW-1 and there is not a single
ingredients coming out against accused to hold him guilty u/s-12 of the POCSO
Act,2012. He further contended voluntarily causing hurt not coming up and
fighting is due to alcoholic nature of the accused which accused now gave up and
this is not fall under voluntarily causing hurt to PW-1 and her mother, the wife of
the accused. There was not criminal intention that may be due to consumption of

alcohol.

8. The prosecution charge against the accused Sadananda Kalita is
voluntarily causing hurt to Smt. Rita Kalita and sexual harassment upon Miss 'X'.
PW-1 Miss 'X' in her evidence testify that accused is her father and informant is
her mother and she was 15 years old at the time of incident which took place two
years back. Her further evidence is that her father was alcoholic person and he
used to beat her mother and rebuked her by using slang words and prior to the
incident she was staying with her mother so her father bring them from Guwahati
with a promise that he will not rebuke them and will not fight with her mother.
On the date of incident her father drank, rebuked her mother using slang
language, beaten her mother and when she came forward to save her mother he
beaten her. Therefore, she and her mother came to the Tihu PS and lodged the
ejahar. In cross stated that her father asked her not to take admission for Higher
Secondary as he has financial problem and for that reason quarrel took place
between her parents and her father being alcoholic person created nuisance after
drinking. PW-1 victim not stated that her father i.e accused sexually abused his
daughter, harassed her by using any words coloured with sexual fervor. Her
testimony does not point that accused did any act with her having sexual intent.

Her in-chief as well as cross pointed that her accused father is an alcoholic

Spl (P) Case No:32/117 3 of 6
persons and he creates nuisance at home after drinking and on the night of the
incident there was altercation between her parents. In chief though stated that
accused beat her and her mother but her evidence does not point she sustained

injury on her body.

8. The statement of PW-2 is that accused is her husband and Miss 'X' is her
daughter and she and her daughter Miss 'X' went to Guwahati and worked as
domestic helper in the house of one Engineer at Guwahati where from her
daughter passed HSLC examination and after declaration of the result of her
daughter, her husband called them to his native house, so they came and on that
night her husband quarreled with her and gave two blows, dragged her daughter,
beaten her and did not allow her to enter in the house. So she lodged the ejahar
and Ext-3 is the ejahar. Her cross-examination is that after taking alcohol her
husband used to beat them mercilessly and therefore, she lodged the ejahar and
now they are residing in the same house with her accused husband and her
daughter took admission in BA course. Her evidence not pointed that accused
used any word or did any act having sexual intent fervor. They did not whisper

taking place of any harassment having sexual fervor upon Miss 'X'.

9. PW-3 Mrigen Kalita stated accused is his father, Miss 'X' is his sister and
informant is his mother and on the date of incident at 4 pm accused beaten his
mother after altercation and thereafter rebuked her sister. After that his mother
lodged the ejahr. His cross pointed during day time his father behaves normally
but at night after taking alcohol he quarreled with his mother and used to beat
her. PW-3 stated incdent took place at 4 pm but PW-1 & 2 stated incident took
place at night. PW-2 also stated that accused beat her but she did not state what
injury she sustained on her body and evidence pointed that after consuming
alcohol quarrel took place between accused with PW-2 and statement of PW-3
pointed that the behaviour of his accused father was not normal at night and his
behaviour changed. The statement of the victim made before the court does not
point that accused committed any act of sexual harassment upon the victim. The
statement of the PW-1, PW-2 & PW-3 when read together does not point the
causing of injury upon the body of the PW-1 & PW-2voluntarily by accused. The
incident was took place as stated by PW-1, PW-2 & PW-3 when accused was

under influence of alcohol, that being so, the ingredients of section 319 not

Spl (P) Case No:32/117 4 of 6
attracted and prosecution failed to establish the charge of section 323 IPC and 12
of the POCSO Act against the accused.

13. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I come to my definite finding that
prosecution miserably failed to establish the charge of section 323 IPC and
section-12 of the POCSO Act against accused Sadananda Kalita and I hold not
guilty u/s-323 IPC and section 12 of the POCSO Act.

14. In the result, accused Sadananda Kalita acquitted from the charge of
section-323 IPC and section-12 of the POCSO Act and is set at liberty.

15. However, his bail bonds shall remain stands for next 6 (six) months u/s-
437-A CrPC.

Judgment is given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 11"
day of December, 2019.

Special Judge
Nalbari

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge,
Nalbari.

Typed by:
Devajit Roy.
Stenographer Grade II.

Spl (P) Case No:32/117 5 of 6
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witnesses
PW-1, Miss 'X',
PW-2, Smt. Rita Kalita,
PW-3, Sri Mrigen Kalita and
PW-4 Dr. Nripen Das.

B. Defence witness
NIL

C. Prosecution Exhibits
Ext-1 Statement of victim u/s-164 CrPC,
Ext-2 Seizure list,
Ext-3 Ejahar,
Ext-4 Medical report and

Ext-5 also medical report.

D. Defence _ Exhibit
Nil.

Special Judge
Nalbari

Spl (P) Case No:32/117 6 of 6
