 

Addl.

SK
wey

Special Judge
Kokrajhar

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC)::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,
Addl. Special Judge (FTC),

Kokrajhar
SPECIAL CASE NO.59/2018
U/S. 4 of Protection of Children
from Sexual Offences Act, 2012
and Section 363 of IPC.
STATE OF ASSAM
Vs
Sri Ghuttu Batman
Late Jatin Barman
Vill: Khalichanimari,
* B.S: Gossaingaon, Kokrajhar
<u Accused person.
Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghosh, Special P.P
Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. S. Pahariya
Charge framed on 15.2.2019
Evidence recorded on 11.3.2019, 29.3.2019
Argument heard on 29.3.2019
Judgment pronounced on 29.3.2019
JUDGMENT
i, The case of the prosecution is that on 18.10.2016 one xxx, the

father of the victim, xxx, lodged a writen FIR at Bhowraguir Out-post
alleging that on 17.10.2016 at about 4 p.m while hwe daughther xxx,
the victim, had gone to take her tuitions at that accused Ghuttu
Barman in collusion with accused Tepla Barman, Subhash Barman,
Malati Barman, abducted his minor daughter and her whereabouts are

not known.
 

As

addi. Special Judge
- Kokrajhar

2
2. The FIR was forwarded to Gossaingaon Police Station. On receipt

of the FIR, a case U/S 366A/34 IPC was registered and investigated.

_ After completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was laid against

the accused Ghuttu Barman for commission of offence U/S 363 IPC
read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act. The case later transferred to this

Court for disposal.

a, The accused person was summoned and on his appearance,
copies of the relevant documents were furnished to him. Upon hearing
both sides, charges U/S 363 IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act
were framed against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and

claimed to trial.

4, In the course of trial prosecution examined 4 witnesses. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined U/S
313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and the accused

declined to adduce any evidence.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused has committed offences under Section
363 IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act by abducting the

victim and committing pentrative sexual offence with her?
DECISION AND REASONS :

a PW1 xxx, is the mother of the victim. She deposed that the
occurrence took place about 2 % years ago. She deposed that accused
Ghutu kidnapped her daughter, xxx, and took her away to different

place. Her daughter married the accused and now she has a girl child
Ad

 

dj. Special Judge
Kokrajhar

3

aged about 1 % years. Her daughter and the accused are now staying

at the residence of the accused as husband and wife.

6. In cross-examination, p w 1 deposed that her daughter had

gone to take her tuition and then she eloped with the accused.

z PW2 xxx, is the father of the victim. He deposed his daughter
had gone to tuition and then she eloped with the accused. Now his
daughter has married the accused and she has a girl child, aged about
1 % years. His daughter is living with the accused at the residence of

accused.

8. In cross-examination, pw 2 deposed that at the time when his
daughter eloped with the accused she had already attained the age of

18 years.

9. PW3, xxx, is the paternal Uncle of the victim. He deposed that
about two years back the daughter of informant eloped with the
accused. Later, he came to know that she had married the accused and

now they have a girl child, aged about 1 *2 years.

10. PW4 is the victim. She deposed that the informant is her father
and accused is her husband. She deposed that she used to love the

accused and they decided to marry. She also deposed that she is now

- living with the accused as husband and wife.

11. In cross-examination, PW4 deposed that her father had lodged
the FIR out of mistake of fact and that she was more than 18 years of

age when she married with the accused.
 

4

In view of the nature of the evidence on record, there appears not
material to suggest that the victim was a minor at the time when the
offence was alleged to have been committed. Thus, there is no
evidence of kidnapping. The evidence rather; reveals that victim and
the accused married due to their mutual love for each other. Thus,
neither any offence under Section 363 IPC is rani out nor any offence
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act is made out. This case appears to

one of mistake of fact.
12. The point for determination is answered in negative.
ORDER

Accused Ghuttu Barman is acquitted of the charges under
Section 353 IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act and set at

liberty forthwith..-
His bail bonds is extended for six months.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court

Dicated by: -
nasi Spee a Addl. af | iden

ok
Kok etpite et Kokrajhar
 

APPENDIX
Prosecution Exhibits: -
Exhibit 1- FIR
Exhibit 2-Statement under Section 164 CrPC.
Prosecution witnesses: -
Pw 1 -Mother of the victim
Pw 2- Father of the victim
Pw 3- Paternal Uncle of the victim
Pw 4- Victim

Defence evidence-Nil

ROY

Addi. Special Judge
Kokrajhar
Kokrajhar
