IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 54 OF 2016
(G.R. Case No. 1603 of 2016)
Jorhat P.S. Case No. 1149 of 2016

Committing Magistrate:-

Smt. Sharmila Bhuyan,
Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat District

State of Assam

Versus

Sri Keshab Chetry,

Son of Sri Amardeep Chetry,

Resident of Jungle Bori Gaon,

P.S. Jorhat,

District-Jorhat. ... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri M.R. Barooah,
Learned Senior Advocate-cum-Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Smt. Sangeeta Sahewalla,
Learned State Defence Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 366 [A] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM
SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 17-08-2016
Date of prosecution evidence : 30-08-2016; 16-09-2016; 29-09-2016;
07-10-2016; 18-01-2017 & 30-01-2017

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 28-02-2017
Date of Argument : 07-03-2017 & 16-03-2017
Date of Judgment : 17-03-2017

SPECIAL CASE NO. 54 OF 2016
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Jorhat P.S. Case No.
1149/2016 under Section 366 [A] of IPC was registered on the basis of an
F.I.R. lodged by Sri Deep Jyoti Rajbongshi, elder brother of the victim girl
[hereinafter referred to as ‘X’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 10/06/2016 [Exhibit-3] the
informant Sri Deep Jyoti Rajbongshi [PW-4] alleged, inter-alia, that on
05/06/2016 his younger sister came out of the house for marketing and on the
way she went on missing. The informant telephoned his younger sister on her
mobile phone bearing No. 7662986415 but he could not succeed in his attempt
as the mobile phone was switched off. It is alleged in the ejahar that he suspects
accused Keshab Chetry who was working in the Anamika Building located at
Doctor’s Lane, Jorhat, to have induced and kidnapped his younger sister.

On receipt of the ejahar by the Officer-in-charge, Jorhat P.S. the
same was registered as Jorhat P.S. Case No. 1149/2016 under Section 366 [A] of
IPC and investigation ensued.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was recovered
from the conscious possession of accused, her statement was recorded by the
1.0. of the case. The victim girl was medically examined by the doctor, her
statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was also recorded by the learned
Magistrate. Police on completion of investigation filed charge-sheet in the case
against the above named accused Keshab Chetry u/S. 366 [A] of IPC vide
Charge-sheet No. 517/2016 dated 30-06-2016.

2). The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jorhat after furnishing copies of
the relevant documents to the accused u/S. 207 of Cr.P.C., committed the case
to this Court for trial.

As accused was unable to engage any counsel to defend him so
learned Advocate Smt. Sangeeta Sahewalla was appointed to defend him on

state expenses.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents

submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016
prosecution in this behalf, finding ground for presuming that the accused has
committed offences under Section 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, the charges were framed,
read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded not guilty

and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 08 [eight] numbers of witnesses
including the victim, her elder brother as well as parent, the Medical Officer and
the I.O. were examined on behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge against
accused.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that he did not
kidnap the victim girl; that the victim girl had love affairs with him and she on
her own volition eloped with him. It is further version of the accused that he has
been falsely implicated in the case. The accused pleaded innocence. No witness

was adduced by the accused in his defence.

5). I have heard Mr. Mukti Ranjan Barooah, learned Senior Advocate-
cum-Special Public Prosecutor for the State as well as Smt. Sangeeta Sahewalla,
learned State Defence Counsel for the accused who is facing trial for commission
of offence u/S. 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on 05/06/2016 at about 4.00 P.M. at Rupahi Ali
Doctor’s Lane, Jorhat Town under Jorhat P.S., the accused
named above, induced the minor victim to leave her parent's
house to go with you or to do any act or acts with intent that she
will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse against her will
and consent and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 366 [A] of IPC?

2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused named above

committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl and

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016
thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7). First of all, let us see the definition of relevant provisions of law to the
charged sections against accused which states:

Section-366 [A]—Procuration of minor girl — Whoever, by any means
whatsoever, induces any minor girl under the age of eighteen years to
go from any place or to do any act with intent that such girl may be, or
knowing that it is likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse with another person shall be punishable with imprisonment

which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Section-4 — Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to

imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

8). To decide the above points and sections of law against accused in
this case, let me examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses
alongwith the exhibited documents.

PW-1 is the victim girl of the instant case. During her testimony
she divulged that on the relevant day she came out of her house for marketing
and thereafter went with the accused to the house of his [accused] maternal
uncle located at Shillong, Baruanihat. She did not inform her parent that she will
accompany the accused. It is her further version that in the house of the
maternal uncle of accused she resided alongwith the accused as husband and
wife for about five days. The accused disclosed to his uncle and family members
that he had accepted her as his wife. Later on, she was recovered by police from
the house of the maternal uncle of accused alongwith him [accused]. Further

version of this witness is that her elder brother lodged ejahar before police

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016
regarding her missing from their house. She was produced before a doctor for
medical check-up. It is further stated by her that she was produced before the
learned Magistrate by police to record her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
She also disclosed that she indulged in sexual intercourse with the accused for
those five days of her stay with him.

During cross-examination, she stated that she had love affair with the
accused for about one year. She further stated that on the date of incident she
came out of her house informing her parent that she will proceed to the house of
her friend to take one book which was in her [friend’s] custody. Thereafter, she
went with the accused to Shillong. It is her further version that she did not shout
for help when she proceeded with the accused to Shillong as the accused
threatened her with dire consequence. She gave statement before the Magistrate
and police that she had love affair with the accused and on her own she eloped
with the accused on the date of incident. She further stated that once she failed
in Class-X.

Defence tried to shake her credibility by questioning her that she did
not raise shouts for help while proceeding with the accused. To the query, the
victim girl categorically stated that she did not shout for help while proceeding

with the accused as she was threatened by the accused with dire consequence.

9). PW-2 is Smt. Kalpana Rajbongshi who is the mother of the victim
girl. This witness during her deposition in Court stated that on the date of
incident her daughter went on missing from the house after disclosing to her that
she will go outside to meet her friend. Her son Sri Deep Jyoti Rajbongshi [PW-4]
lodged ejahar before police. Her daughter was recovered from the possession of
accused at Shillong. It is her further version that police seized one birth
certificate of her daughter vide seizure-list [Exhibit-2] wherein Exhibit- 2[1] is her
signature.

During cross-examination, she categorically stated that her
daughter [PW-1] is aged 16 years & 4 months. The birth certificate of her
daughter was handed over to police but police returned the same to her after

obtaining one Xerox copy of the aforesaid birth certificate. She denied that her

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016
daughter on the date of incident eloped with the accused as per her free will and
consent.

Prosecution side re-examined PW-2. During re-examination she
exhibited the original birth certificate of victim [X]. Material Exhibit-1 is the said

certificate.

10). The evidence of Sri Phukan Rajbongshi [PW-3] who is the
father of victim girl is almost alike as that of Smt. Kalpana Rajbongshi [PW-2].
During cross-examination, he admitted that his daughter did not
consent to return back home but later on she agreed but the accused did not
allow his daughter to return back. He further stated that he does not know if his
daughter had love affair with the accused for which she on the date of incident

eloped with him.

11). Sri Deep Jyoti Rajbongshi, the elder brother of the victim girl
[PW-4] is the informant of the instant case. He deposed during his testimony
that on the date of incident the victim [PW-1] who was a student of Gitarthi
School and aged about 16 years went on missing from the house. He searched
for his younger sister but could not find her. He returned back home and came to
know that the accused who worked as a worker in the locality had kidnapped his
sister. He then lodged ejahar before police which he exhibited as Exhibit-3
wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is his signature. It is his further version that his sister was
recovered by police from Shillong, Boranihat. His sister was taken before a doctor
for medico legal check-up and thereafter produced before the learned Magistrate
for recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

During cross-examination, he admitted that he did not state before
police that he went to the shop to obtain the photo of the accused which he had
given to the owner of the shop for obtaining a Sim Card in his name. He further
stated that he does not know if his younger sister had eloped with the accused
on her free will and consent. Further, he stated that he does not want to proceed

with the accused as his younger sister had her own fault to the alleged incident.

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016
12). Sri Lalit Kumar Yadav [PW-5] is the friend of accused as the
accused used to work with him as cook. It is his further version that on the date
of incident in the evening hour his owner searched for the accused but could not
find any trace of his whereabout. After 3/4 days the accused was caught by
police alongwith a girl. The girl is not known to him.

During cross-examination, he stated that police did not visit his

owner’s house and further that he does not know anything about the incident.

13). The evidence of Md. Siraj Daulla [PW-6] is to the effect that he
knows accused as the accused was cook in the house of Sri Raju Goel. It is his
further version that on the date of incident he came to know from the informant
who was a tenant near his house that his daughter was missing from the house.
During cross-examination, he stated that informant did not state

before him that accused had kidnapped his daughter on the date of incident.

14). Smt. Arpana Das [PW-7] who is the neighbour of informant stated
that she came to know that victim went missing from her house on the date of
incident.

During cross-examination, she categorically stated that she does not

anything regarding the incident.

15). Sri Sunthoron Shyam [PW-8] is the investigating officer of the
instant case deposed about the routine steps taken by him after lodging of the
ejahar by the elder brother of the victim before the Officer-in-charge, Jorhat P.S.
He was entrusted with the charge of investigation. He exhibited the ejahar as
Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-3 [2] was the endorsement with signature of Sri Kamal
Chandra Rajbongshi, the then Officer-in-charge, Jorhat P.S.

During investigation, he recorded statement of the informant at the
police station itself. Thereafter he visited the place of occurrence, examined
witnesses who were acquainted with the fact and circumstance of the case. He
further stated that victim girl was recovered from Baruanihat in the State of
Meghalaya under the conscious possession of accused. He thereafter recorded

statement of the victim, took her before a doctor for medico legal check-up. The

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016
victim was produced before the learned Magistrate for recording statement under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. He further divulged that he drew Sketch-map of the site of
occurrence with index vide Exhibit-4 wherein Exhibit-4 [1] is his signature.
Further version of this witness is that after completion of investigation he
submitted charge-sheet against the accused under Section 366 [A] of IPC.

During cross-examination, he denied that he investigated the case
in a perfunctory manner and submitted charge-sheet against the accused without

any basis.

16). From a close perusal of the evidence on record, more particularly,
the evidence of victim [PW-1], it is seen that the victim knew the accused from
before as she had love affair with him prior to the incident for about last one

year.

17). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. stated

that victim came to him voluntarily.

18). In the present case, birth certificate of the victim was seized by the
I.0. as disclosed by the mother of victim namely Smt. Kalpana Rajbongshi [PW-
2], according to which, the age of the victim was above sixteen years but below
eighteen years at the relevant time. PW-2 during her re-examination exhibited
the original birth certificate of victim [X] as Material Exhibit-1. The said birth
certificate shows that date of birth of victim as 13/06/1999. Incident of the case
in hand, took place on 05/06/2016 which shows that victim was aged almost 17

years.

19). It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole evidence of a
child witness is permissible, if such witness is found competent to testify and the
court, after careful scrutiny of its evidence.

In the case of Datttu Ramrao Sakhare-versus-State of
Maharashtra, reported in [1997] 5 SCC 341, the Hon’ble Apex Court has held
that — “A child witness if found competent to depose to the facts and

reliable one, such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016
words, even in the absence of oath, the evidence of a child witness can
be considered under Section 118 of Indian Evidence Act, provided that
such witness is able to understand the questions and able to give
rational answers thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility
thereof would depend upon the circumstance of each case. The only
precaution which the court should bear in mind while assessing the
evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be reliable one and
his/her demeanor must be like any other competent witness and there

is no likelihood of being tutored”.

20). In another case, i.e., Pancchi —versus- State of Uttar Pradesh,
AIR 1998 SC 2726, the Hon’ble Apex Court has held that — “It is not the law
that if a witness is a child, his/her evidence shall be rejected, even if it
is found reliable, The law is that evidence of a child witness must be
evaluated more carefully and with greater circumspection because a
child is susceptible to be swayed by what others tell them and this child
witness is easy prey to tutoring”.

21). The ration as laid down in the above case is that the testimony of a
child witness is attributed the same kind of credibility that it attached to the
statement of any other witness if the testimony is consistent.

In the present case, the victim has been consistent on the material
particulars with regard to the incident which is supported by her family members,
i.e., PW-2, PW-3 and PW-4.

22). On appreciation of the evidence on record as well as other facts and
circumstances of the case, it is found that there allegation of forceful abduction
of the victim girl by the accused which can be seen from the evidence of victim
girl [PW-1] itself. The parents of the victim [PW-2] and [PW-3] divulged that on
the date of incident their daughter went on missing from the house school after
she came out to meet her friend who had borrowed one book from her prior to
the date of incident. From the evidence of Sri Deep Jyoti Rajbongshi [PW-4] who

is the elder brother of victim girl it is seen that he later on came to know that the

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016
10

accused had taken away his younger sister [PW-1]. After knowing that the
accused had kidnapped his younger sister he lodged ejahar before police.
Similarly, the victim girl has narrated the fact during examination
that as on the relevant day she accompanied the accused to the house of his
maternal uncle situated at Baruanihat, Shillong in the State of Meghalaya where

they resided as husband and wife.

23). The aim of the provisions of Section 366 [A] of IPC is to prevent
immorality and the provisions are framed more with the desire of the
safeguarding the public interest of morality than the chastity of one particular
woman. The consent therefore of the minor against whom the offence is
committed is immaterial. The consent might have been induced and any reason
given by the accused to move the girl from one place to another is sufficient
inducement. Once the offence of inducement is proved, the girl’s subsequent
willingness will neither prevent the offence nor reduce the gravity of the offence.
[Bhagawati Prasad-versus-Emperor, AIR 1929 All 709: 119 IC 14: 30
Cri.L.J. 985].

24). In the case of Prakash-versus-State of Haryana as reported in
[2004] 1 SCC 339: 2004 Cri.L.J. 595, the Apex Court held that the words
“takes or entices any minor ..... out of the keeping of the lawful guardian of such
minor” in Section 361, are significant. The use of word “keeping” connotes the
idea of charge, protection, maintenance and control; further the guardian’s
charge and control appears to be compatible with the independence of action
and movement of the minor, the guardian’s protection and control of the minor
being available, whenever necessity arises. It was held “on plain reading of this
section the consent of the minor who is taken or enticed is wholly immaterial; it
is only the guardian’s consent which takes the case out of its purview”. There is
essential distinction between “taking” and “enticing”. In the case of State of
Kerala-versus-Rajayan as reported in 1996 Cri.L.J. 145 [supra] it was held
that the mental attitude of the minor is not of relevance in the case of taking and

the word “take” means to cause to go, to escort or to get into possession.

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016

10
11

In the case of In re Khalandar Saheb as reported in AIR 1955
Andhra 59, it was held that when the accused took the minor with him, whether
she was willing or not, the act of taking was complete and the condition was
satisfied. In the case of Shabir Rashid-versus-The State as reported in 1969
Cri.L.J. 1282 [Delhi High Court] it was held that as the prosecutrix was a
minor girl of thirteen and half years old, her consent was not material and as

such the conviction under Section 366/376 of IPC was maintained.

25). In the instant case, though the victim girl went out voluntarily with
the accused but the fact remains that she was a minor at the time of occurrence,
which has been duly proved by the prosecution. Victim in her cross-examination
clearly deposed that she could not shout for help as accused threatened him with
dire consequence. Moreover, on a plain reading of the section 366 [A] of IPC, the
consent of the minor who has been induced to go from any place, is wholly

immaterial.

26). The learned State Defence Counsel for the accused has placed
reliance on a case law which is as follows:
1]. Dinesh Kumar -versus-State of Himachal Pradesh, 2012 Cri.L.J. 228

27). I have perused the abovementioned case law and on perusal of
the same I found that the relevant case law as cited by the learned counsel for
the accused deals basically on circumstantial evidence which has no bearing in

the instant case.

28). In view of the above discussion, I am of the considered view that
prosecution has considerably been able to prove the case against accused Sri
Keshab Chetry under Section 366 [A] of IPC, as victim was a minor at the time of

incident.
29). The victim during her evidence as well as her statement under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. categorically stated that she had physical relationship with

the accused. But prosecution failed to examine the doctor for the reason best

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016

11
12

known to him to prove that accused had physical relationship with the accused,
for which, no case has been made out against accused Sri Keshab Chetry to
warrant his conviction under Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012, beyond reasonable doubt, for which, I am of the opinion that

the accused is entitled to acquittal under benefit of doubt which I accordingly do.

30). Accused Sri Keshab Chetry is heard on the point of sentence. The
accused has submitted that he resides with his parent and there is none to look
after them in his absence. He further submitted that if he is sent to jail hajot,

then his life will be destroyed. Hence, the accused prayed for leniency.

31). I have heard Smt. Sangeeta Sahewalla, learned State Defence
Counsel for the accused as well as Sri Mukti Ranjan Barooah, learned Senior
Advocate-cum-Special Public Prosecutor, Jorhat.

Considering the nature of offence the accused Sri Keshab
Chetry is sentenced to undergo SIMPLE IMPRISONMENT for 4 [four] years
and also to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/- [Rupees Five Thousand], in-default of
payment of fine, to suffer further SIMPLE IMPRISONMENT for 3 [three]
months.

The period of detention already undergone by the accused
during investigation and trial shall be set off from the period of imprisonment
imposed on him.

The accused is acquitted from the charge under Section 4 of
The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, as said, hereinbefore,

under benefit of doubt.

32). Free copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused immediately.
Send a copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate, Jorhat,
under Section 365 Cr.P.C.

33). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 17th day of
March 2017.

Special Judge, Jorhat

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016
13

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW-1 Victim girl.
PW-2 Smt. Kalpana Rajbongshi, mother of victim girl.
PW-3 Sri Phukan Rajbongshi, father of the victim girl.
PW-4 Sri Deep Jyoti Rajbongshi, elder brother of the
victim-cum-informant of the case.
PW-5 Sri Lalit Kumar Yadav, neighbour.
PW-6 Md. Siraj Daulla, businessman.
PW-7 Smt. Arpana Das, neighbour.
PW-8 Sri Sunthoron Shyam, I.0. of the case.
COURT WITNESS:- NIL
EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

Exhibit-1

Exhibit-2
Exhibit-3

 

Exhibit-4

Statement of the victim recorded by the Magistrate
under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Seizure-list

Ejahar

Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index

 

 

MATERIAL EXHIBIT NO-1:- Birth certificate.

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016 1 3
SPECIAL CASE NO.54 OF 2016

14

14
