 

 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 2/18 1

DISTRICT- BAKSA
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, BAKSA, MUSHALPUR

Present- Smti. M.C. Bordoloi, M.A., L.L.B., (A.j.S.),
Special Judge, Baksa

Special POCSO Case No. 2/18
(u/s 366-A IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act)

State of Assam

-versus-

1. Dasharath Nath

2. Asir Alli
3. Rinku All... eee Accused
Appearance:
Mr. Ranjit Chetri............. Public Prosecutor for the State

Mrityunjoy Mazumdar.....Advocates for the accused person

Date of charge: 06-09-18
Date of Evidence: 01-06-19, 16-09-19, 06-11-19, 07-12-19
Statement recorded on: 10-02-2020
Date of Argument: 10-02-2020
Date of judgment: 15-02-2020
Judgment

One Rupsan Bibi, resident of Madhapur under Barama P.S. lodged
the ejahar with the Barama P.S. On 13-02-15 alleging inter-alia that on
the 12 day of February, 2015 at about 5.30 p.m. when her minor
daughter(name withheld) had gone out of her house to the road,
accused Dasharath Nath along with some others forcibly kidnapped her
victim daughter in a car and despite search, her victim daughter could
not be traced out. It was also alleged that accused Asher Ali, Asia Bibi

Contd...
Spl. POCSO Case No. 2/18 2

and Rinku Ali some days prior to the alleged occurrence extended
threat of marriage of her victim’s daughter to a Hindu Boy and that the
said accused had aided accused Dasharath Nath in his act of
kidnapping the victim girl. Hence the ejahar.

 

Upon receipt of the ejahar the then O/C of Barama PS.,
registered a case vide Barama PS. Case No. 17/15 u/s 366-
A/506/294/109 IPC and caused investigation of the case.

Upon completion of investigation charge sheet vide no. 55/15
dated 31-10-15 u/s 4 of the POCSO Act against accused Dasharath
Nath and u/s 109 IPC against accused Asir Ali and Rinku Ali was laid
before the Hon'ble Sessions Judge, Nalbari who having taken
cognizance of the offence issued summons to secure the presence of
the accused persons in Court. Subsequent to the creation of Courts at
Baksa, the Hon'ble Sessions Judge, Nalbari having found that the case
was one falling within the jurisdiction of Baksa Court, transferred the
Same to the Court of Hon’ble Sessions Judge, Baksa who having
secured the attendance of the accused persons in the Court, furnished
copies of the case to the accused persons in compliance of the
provisions of section 207 CrPC and having found prima-facie materials
u/s 366-A IPC against all the accused persons and materials u/s 4 of
the POCSO Act against accused Dasharath Nath framed charges u/s
366-A IPC against all the accused persons and another charge u/s 4 of

(. a the POCSO Act against accused Dasharath Nath vide order dated 06-
07 09-18. The charges so framed, on being read over and explained to the
\9 2\e05 accused persons, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

eX ,. . The prosecution in order to prove its case examined 7 nos of
oe witnesses. All the witnesses were cross examined by the defence side.

Thereafter with the designation with the instant Court as a Special
Court for trial of POCSO Cases vide Hon’ble Gauhati High Court
notification dated 02-01-2020, the case record was transferred to the
instant Court for disposal.

The statement of the accused persons u/s 313 CrPC are recorded
in this Court putting forward all incriminating material which had

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 2/18 3

surfaced during trial. The accused persons denied the allegations and
declined to adduce defence evidence. Accordingly DW evidence stood
closed.

The defence plea is that of total denial of guilt.

Arguments
Heard the arguments forwarded by the Id. Counsels of both

 

sides. Ld. PP., Baksa submits that Court shall pass appropriate order
after scrutinizing the available materials in its entirety.

Ld. Defence counsel Mrityunjoy Mazumdar submits that instant
case is a no evidence case and the accused persons deserve clean
acquittal: Ld. Counsel points out to the fact that the prosecutrix herself
gave a goodbye to the prosecution case, she completely negating the
occurrence of any offence as alleged and instead averring that she
went with the accused on her own will and presently leading happy
married life with the accused Dasarath Nath. Ld. Counsel submits that
the accused persons may be acquitted.

| have given my anxious consideration to the arguments
forwarded. | have also perused the case record in its entirety.

The point for determination that has arisen in the instant case
is:-
Point for determination:
(1) Whether on the evening of 12-02-15 at about 5.30 p.m. accused
ae persons at village Madhapur under Barama PS. induced the victim girl

cx to go from her home with intent that the victim may be forced or
be Ns seduced to illicit intercourse with another person in furtherance of their
common intention?
so

(ii) Whether the accused Dasharath Nath committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim girl?

(iii)What was the age of the victim at the time of the occurrence?

My decision on the aforesaid points for determination along with
reasons is given herein under:-

Discussion decision and reasons there for

 

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 2/18 4

To address the aforesaid points for determination it will be
worthwhile to peruse the evidence available on record and | proceed to
do so.

PW1 the prosecutrix/victim in her evidence stated that the
occurrence took place in the year 2015 and that she eloped with
accused Dasharath Nath without informing her parents, whereupon

 

her mother filed the case and police recovered her from the house of
accused Dasharath Nath and caused her medical examination and also
caused her statement to be recorded in Court. PW1 exhibited her
medical examination report as Ext. 1, her signature thereon as Ext.
1(1), her statement recorded in Court as Ext. 2 and her signatures
thereon as Ext. 2(1) and Ext. 2(2).

PW1 also stated that after her recovery from the house of the
accused Dasharath Nath, her mother took her custody and took her to
her house but again after two months she left with accused Dasharath
Nath and thereafter accused Dasharath Nath married her as per social
norms and presently they have a child.

In her cross examination PW1 clarified that she eloped with
accused Dasharath Nath on her own will and that her parents had
consented to their marriage.

PW 2- Rupsan Bibi in her evidence stated that her victim

((- 0 daughter was kidnapped by the accused persons on the fateful day at

hehe about 5.30 p.m. while she was on her way to attend her tuition classes
cts Aye and that victim failed to return home till late night and that when the
oa” . victim could not be found despite search, she lodged the FIR. PW2

exhibited the FIR as Ext 3 and her signature thereon as Ext. 3(1). PW2
also stated that police recovered the victim girl from the house of
accused Dasharath Nath and caused her medical examination,
recorded her statement in Court and that thereafter she took her
victim daughter in her custody but her victim daughter again left her
house and went with accused Dasharath Nath with whom she has been
presently residing after her marriage.

Contd...
 

 

SK
\°)
S ne

Ww”

oe
oO
E

i

0
+
0.92

\9
SK
Ne

Spl. POCSO Case No. 2/18 3

When put to cross examination PW2 disclosed that victim had
gone away with accused Dasharath Nath on her own will and that she
had filed the case out of misunderstanding against accused persons.

PW3- Anjuma Bibi in her evidence stated that on the fateful
evening she could learn that the victim girl was missing from her house
and later could know that accused Dasharath Nath took away the
victim girl and subsequently police recovered the victim from the
house of accused Dasharath Nath and that after 3/4 months of the first
occurrence accused Dasharath Nath again took away the victim girl
with him and that presently victim resides in the house of accused
Dasharath Nath after her marriage with him.

In her cross examination PW3 disclosed that the victim fled away
with the accused as she had love affairs with the accused.

PW4 -Dulal Nath deposed that the occurrence took place in the
year 2015 and that accused Dasharath Nath had love affairs with the
victim girl as such both of them went away to some place for some
days whereupon the family members of the victim reported about the
occurrence to him and after few days accused Dasharath Nath also
informed him that he brought the victim girl with him and that
thereafter he called the accused back home with the victim girl and
solemnized the victim’s marriage with the accused Dasharath Nath.

In his cross examination PW4 disclosed that accused Asher Ali
and Rinku Ali being friends of accused Dasharath Nath, informant filed
case against them as well.

PW5- Dr. Urmi Devi deposed that on 28-02-2015 she examined
the victim girl at the SMK Civil Hospital, Nalbari at 4.30 p.m. and found
the following:-

Victim was oriented, her pulse was 88 per minute and that
victim washed her genitalia, mouth, canal and changed
her clothes after the incident. Victim’s hymen was torn but
healthy and vagina and cervix healthy. Vaginal swabs was
sent for microscopic examination but no sperm was seen.
BETA hsg test of urine was advised for pregnancy test but

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 2/18 6

report not found till the time of reporting. USG of lower
abdomen was advised but no abnormality was seen. X-ray .
was advised for age estimation. Radiological evidence
estimated age of victim below 18 years and above 16
years of age.

Opinion- as not consistent with recent sexual

intercourse or assault.

PWS5 identified the victim’s medical report as Ext. 1, her
signatures thereon as Ext. 1(2) and Ext. 1(3), the victim’s X-ray report
as Ext. 4 and the signature of Dr. Probadh Kumar Sarma thereon as Ext.
4(1).

PW6 -Ghanashyam Talukdar deposed that on 13-02-2015 when
he was sitting at his shop the informant came there and narrating that
4 persons had _ kidnapped her daughter on 12-02-2015 at about 5.30
p.m. from the front of her house , asked him to write an ejahar and that
he wrote the same, read over the contents thereof to the informant.
PWo6 identified the FIR as Ext. 3 and his signature thereon as Ext. 3(2).

PW 7- Owaz Ali is the investigating Officer of the case. He
deposed that he investigated the case on being endorsed to, and
during investigation he visited the place of occurrence examined the
witnesses, drew the sketch map of the place of occurrence, recovered
the victim, caused the victim’s medical examination, recorded her
statement in Court etc. PW7 identified the signature of Durlav Ch. Das
the then O/C of Barama PS. on Ext. 3- FIR as Ext 3(3), he also identified
the sketch map of the place of occurrence as Ext. 5 and his signature
thereon as Ext. 5(1). PW7 exhibited the charge sheet filed by
Khargeswar Deka against the accused persons as Ext. 6 and signature
of Khargeswar Deka thereon as Ext. 6(1).

In his cross examination PW7 disclosed that he could not confirm
the fact of the existence of love affairs between the accused and the
victim girl during investigation as the accused could not be found.

This is the evidence available on record.

Contd...
 

 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 2/18 7

In the instant case, all the accused persons stands charged under
section 366 A IPC and accused Dasarath Nath also u/s 4 of the POCSO
Act. Prosecution witnesses did not support the prosecution case. The
victim (PW1) affirmed and re-affirmed that she went with the accused
Dasarath Nath on her own volition and that none had kidnapped or
taken her away forcibly from her parental house. Informant (PW2) also
averred that she had filed the case as she was unaware that her victim
daughter had herself went with the accused.

It is abundantly clear from the evidence on record that accused
Dasarath Nath or even the other accused persons had not committed
the overt act of kidnapping the victim girl as alleged. Evidence is also
silent that accused persons more specifically accused Dasarath Nath
had done any acts which led to the formation of opinion in the mind of
the victim girl, to abandon her parents guardianship and go with
accused Dasarath Nath. Evidence is also silent in respect of
inducement in any form extended to the victim girl by the accused
persons, to go or to be’ with accused Dasarath Nath. It is only
forthcoming that victim exercised her own discretion .

Now in the present case prosecution could not bring on record any
document in respect of the victim girl’s age. But the victim(PW1)
herself stated that she was 17 years of age at the time of the
occurance.PW5 the medical officer also stated the victim’s age to be
below 18 years at the relevant time. Though documentary evidence of
victim’s age is not on record , the unchallenged evidence of PW1 in
respect of her age coupled with the medical evidence , it can be
concluded that victim was 17 years of age at the time of occurrence.

Now question as to whether allowing a victim under the age of
18 years to remain in his company ,makes the accused liable for legal
consequences or could he said to have committed the act of taking
away the victim girl from lawful guardianship.

The case of S. Varadarajan Vs State of Madras reported in
1965 AIR 942 can be pressed into service. In the case(supra) Hon’ble

Contd...
 

ws 28 30°

 

xe
Ww?
ae

Spl. POCSO Case No. 2/18 8

Supreme Court had clearly brought out the distinction between the
words “taking” and “enticing”. Their Lordships held that-

“It must, however, be borne in mind that there is a distinction
between “taking” and allowing a minor to accompany a person. The
two expressions are not synonymous though we would like to guard
ourselves from laying down that in no conceivable circumstance can
the two be regarded as meaning the same thing for the purposes of s.
361 of the Indian Penal Code. We would limit ourselves to a case like
the present where the minor alleged to have been taken by the
accused person left her father’s protection knowing and having
capacity to know the full import of what she was doing voluntarily joins
the accused person. In such a case we do not think that the accused
can be said to have taken her away from the keeping of her lawful
guardian. Something more has to be shown in a case of this kind and
that is some kind of inducement held out by the accused person or an
active participation by him in the formation of the intention of the
minor to leave the house of the guardian. It would, however, be
sufficient if the prosecution establishes that though immediately prior
to the minor leaving the father’s protection no active part was played
by the accused, he had at some earlier stage solicited or persuaded
the minor to do so. In our, opinion if evidence to establish one of those
things is lacking it would not be legitimate to infer that the accused is
guilty of taking the minor out of the keeping of the lawful guardian
merely because after she has actually left her guardian’s house or a
house where her guardian had kept her, joined the accused and the
accused helped her in her design not to return to her guardian’s house
by taking her along with him from place to place. No doubt, the part
played by the accused could be regarded as facilitating the fulfillment
of the intention of the girl. That part, in our opinion, falls short of an
inducement to the minor to slip out of the keeping of her lawful
guardian and is, therefore, not tantamount to “taking”” .

In the case at hand, the victim girl being a lettered girl and
being above 17 years, just on the verge of attaining majority,

Contd...
Spl. POCSO Case No. 2/18 9

was having the capacity to know the full import of what she was doing
voluntary- that is joining the company of the accused without her
parents’ consent and approval. As nothing has been shown in this case

that some kind of inducement was held out by the accused person or

 

an active participation by the accused in the formation of intention of
the minor to leave the house of her guardian, the accused Dasarath
Nath can not be held guilty of taking the victim out from the lawful
guardianship. In fact nothing is also forthcoming that accused at some
earlier stage also persuaded or solicited the minor girl to accompany
him. Nor there is any evidence of pursuasion by the accused to marry
him. The case of and illiterate girl would have been different but in the
instant case the victim girl being a student at the relevant time , for
the exercise of her discretion to be with the accused, accused persons
can not be put to fault.

Again the evidence on record is silent in respect of any overt
acts of sexual assault being done by accused Dasarath Nath on the
victim’s person.Rather it is clarified by the victim(PW1) that accused
\h 40 Dasarath Nath neither had sexual intercourse with her nor forced her to

a 8 os have sexual intercourse with him. Ingredients of section 4 of the
ons x POCSO thus, finds no attraction herein.
oo Accordingly in the above premises, | am constrained to hold that
prosecution has failed to establish the charge under section 366-A IPC
r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused persons beyond all
reasonable doubt.

The points for determination stands answered accordingly.

In the fact and circumstances of the case compensation to the
victim does not find justification. Hence no compensation is awarded to
the victim.

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 2/18 10

Order

In the light of the above discussions, accused persons namely

 

Dasarath Nath, Asir Ali and Rinku Ali are acquitted of the charges u/s
366-A IPC R/W Section 4 of the POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.
The bail bond of the accused person shall remain in force for a
Whe period of 6 months with effect from today in view of the provisions of
we Section 437-A Cr.PC.
yo” Given under my hand and seal of this court on the 15" day of

February, 2020.

620
(Smti. M.C. poached 8838
Baksa, Mushalpur

Special Judge, Baksa, Mushalpur

Dictated and corrected by me

Maratntas

shal Rags
, u
(Smti. M.C. o/dol aa fase
Special Judge, Baksa, Moshalour

Contd...
 

0

yard

es

Spl. POCSO Case No. 2/18

 

Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1
Ext.1(1)
Ext.1(2) and Ext. 1(3)
Ext.2
Ext.2(1) and Ext. 2(2)
Ext.3
Ext.3(1)
Ext.3(2)
Ext.3(3)
Ext.4
Ext.4(1)
Ext. 5
Ext.5(1)
Ext. 6
RK Ext.6(1)

Defence witness:
Material exhibits:

Court witness:

11

APPENDIX

victim(name withheld)
Rupsan Bibi

Anjuma Bibi

Dulal Nath

Dr. Urmi Devi
Ghanashyam Talukdar
Owaz Ali

Medical report of the victim
Signature of victim

Signatures of Dr. Urmi Devi
Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC
Signature of victim

FIR

Signature of Rupsan Bibi

Signature of Ghanashyam Talukdar
Signature of Durlav Ch. Das

X-ray report of victim

Signature of Dr. Prabudh Kr. Sarma
Sketch map of place of occurence
Signature of Owaz Ali

Charge Sheet

Signature of Khargeshwar Deka

Nil.
Nil.

Nil.

Lrsales Ao

(Smti. M.C. Bordolog Judge
Special Judge, Baksa, BaktaiNushalpur

Contd...
