IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, UDALGURI, ASSAM

Present:: Smti.S.Bora,
Special Judge,
Udalguri, Assam.

Special (POCSO) Case No. 14/16.

U/S 8 of the POCSO Act.
State of Assam.......... Complainant.
Vs
Osman Gani @ Osman Ali.......... Accused.
Appearance:-
For the Prosecution : Mr. P.Baskey, Public Prosecutor.
For the defence : Mr. R.Khaklari, Advocate.
Date of argument : 6.9.2017.

Date of Judgment : 8.9.2017.

JUDGMENT

The case of the prosecution, in brief, is that on 21.3.15 an FIR was
lodged with Bhakatpara Out Post by informant, Sahidul Islam stating, inter-alia,
that on 14.3.15 at about 11 PM, while all the inmates of his house were in
asleep, accused Osman Ali after cutting the door of his dwelling house tried to
commit bad work with his 14 years old daughter (hereinafter referred to in
short as “X”). Then the girl shouted. On hearing hulla neighbouring people
came and caught Osman Ali red-handed. Thereafter, father and elder brother
of Osman Ali took Osman Ali with a promise to be held ‘Bichar’. On the next
day meeting was held but Osman Ali and his father did not attend in the
meeting. Hence, delay is caused in lodging the ejahar. On receipt the ejahar
the In-Charge, Bhakatpara Out-Post by giving GDE No.230 dated 21.3.15
forwarded the same to Kalaigaon Police Station for registering a case and he
himself took the charge of investigation. Accordingly, kalaigaon PS Case
No.36/15 u/s 457/376/511 IPC was registered. Police held usual investigation.

At the conclusion of investigation police laid charge-sheet against accused for
the offence punishable u/s 457/376/511 IPC added Section 6/8 of the POCSO
Act.

2. This court furnished copy of the necessary papers to the accused
person. Upon perusal of materials on record and hearing submission advanced
by the parties this court found a prima-facie case to frame charge against the
accused Osman Gani @ Osman Ali for the offence punishable u/s-8 of the
POCSO Act and charge was framed accordingly. Charge so framed was read
over and explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.

3. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as nine
numbers of witnesses. After completion of prosecution evidence accused
person examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused
and evidence appears against the accused are put before him for his
explanation, where he denied the evidence and allegations and declined to give

defence evidence.

4. I have heard argument advanced by the learned counsel of the parties

and carefully gone through the evidence and other materials on record.

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :

Whether the accused person on or about 14.3.15 at about 11 PM at
village Marabegapar under Kalaigaon PS committed sexual assault upon said

“xX”, aged about 14 years?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

6. Prosecution examined informant, Sahidul Islam as PW6. He stated that
he knows accused Osman Ali. The incident took place about 2 years ago at
about 11 PM. At about 11 PM the accused talked with his daughter “X”. When
he raised “who,” the accused fled away. He informed VDP secretary. VDP
secretary called the father of accused. But they did not come. A bichar was
held in the village. But the accused did not appear in the bichar. As such he

lodged ejahar and therefore, there is delay in lodging FIR.
In cross-examination this witness stated that they have only one house
and there is one entrance. At night they bolted the door. They used to live in
the same house. He does not know if his daughter and accused had love

affairs.

7. PW.1, Dr. Liladhar Brahma stated that on 26.3.15 he was serving as a
medical In-charge of Bhakatpara State Dispensary. On that day at about 11.10
AM he examined the victim girl “X” on police requisition in connection with
Bhakatpara P.P. case. The victim was escorted by WBC/N.Kalita and WHG/15
Rupali Devi. The patient/victim gives the history of attempt to rape on 14.3.15
at about 11 PM. On examination no injury was detected.

Doctor remarks that no injury or rape sign or molestation is detected.

In cross-examination doctor stated that case number is not mentioned

in his report. The report available in the record is a carbon copy.

8. PW2, Kajimuddin Mandal stated that he knows accused Osman Gani.
He also knows informant, Sahidul Islam. He is his son-in-law. Victim “X” is his
grand daughter. The incident took place about one year ago. The occurrence
took place at about 11 PM. The occurrence took place in the house of his son-
in-law i.e. the informant. His house is situated at a distance of about 200
meters from the house of informant. At the time of occurrence he was at his
home. After about 2 an hour of the occurrence his son-in-law (informant)
came to his house and asked to accompany him to his house. Accordingly he
went to the house of the informant. Informant told him that the accused
person entered into his house and had some discussion with the victim girl.
Police recorded his statement. A ‘Bichar’ was held in the village regarding the
occurrence but the accused did not appear in the ‘Bichar’.

In cross-examination this witness stated that he did not find the
accused person at the place of occurrence. He knows about the affairs

between the victim Rejina and the accused person.

9. PW3, Miss Salema Khatoon stated that she knows accused person.
Accused is her neighbour. Informant, Sahidul Islam is her father. Victim “X” is
her younger sister. The incident took place about one year ago. The
occurrence took place at our house at about 11 PM. At the time of occurrence

she alongwith her younger sister, “X” were sleeping in the same bed. She was
in deep sleep. On that night itself when she woke up she came to know from
her parents that accused person entered into their room. She came to know
from her parents that Osman had love affairs with “X”. She saw Kajimuddin
(PW2), Ramjan Ali and her parents having some discussion over the matter.
After the incident said Ramjan Ali expired. She does not know how the accused
enter into their room.

In her cross-examination she stated that there is wooden door in their

house. The room in which they were sleeping was closed from inside.

10. PW4, Julfikar Ali stated that he knows informant, Sahidul Islam. Victim
“X” is his niece. Informant Sahidul Islam is the father of the victim “Xx”.
Informant Sahidul Islam resides in his same courtyard. The incident took place
about one year ago. At night at about 11 PM he heard hulla in the house of the
informant. He then proceeded to the house of the informant. The parents of
“X” scolding her stating as to why accused came to their house. He came to
know from the mother of “X” that at the time of occurrence accused came to
their house.

In his cross-examination he stated that he did not see the accused at
the place of occurrence. There was love affair between accused and “X”. He

came to the house of the informant about 2 an hour after the incident.

11. PW.5, Musstt. Jahura Khatoon, the mother of the victim stated that
accused Osman Ali is her neighbour. The incident took place about one year
ago. The occurrence took place at about 11 PM. While she was sleeping in her
room she heard some conversation in between accused and her daughter “X”
who were in a separate room. As soon as she got up from bed and proceeding
to the room of “X”. Accused hurriedly came out of their house. She saw the
accused person coming out of her house from behind. She asked her daughter
as to the person who came to her room. Initially she did not disclose the name
of the accused person but subsequently she told them that accused came to
her room. At the time of occurrence her daughter was aged 14 years.

In cross-examination this witness stated that it is known to them that
there was love affair between the accused and “X”. There is single entrance in
their house. The said entrance was closed from inside. At the material time

electric light was off in the house. She did not see the face of the accused at
the material time. Initially her daughter did not disclose the name of the
accused who came to her room but subsequently on their insistence she told

them that the accused came to her room.

12. PW7, Musstt. Hajera Khatoon stated that she knows accused Osman
Ali. The incident took place about 2 years ago. On the day of occurrence at
night mother of “X” called her to their house. She saw that one person fled

away. She could not identify the person.

13. PW9 is the victim “X”. She stated that she knows accused Osman Ali.
The incident took place in the year 2015. On the day of incident at night at
about 12 O'clock night she talked with the accused. Her father saw them and
raised hue and cry. The neighbouring people came. On the next day meeting
was held. Local people advised them to lodge ejahar. Accordingly her father
lodged ejahar. Accused did not commit rape on her. She was produced before
the court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Magistrate recorded her
statement. Ext.2 is the statement. Ext.2(1) and 2(2) are her signature.

In cross-examination she stated that accused did not commit rape on

her. They had love affairs.

14. PW9, Ajoy Goswami is_ the scribe of the ejahar. He stated that as per

version of the informant he wrote the ejahar Ext.1. Ext.1(1) is his signature.

15. I have scanned the evidence of PWs.

16. In the instant case the informant as well as the alleged victim “X” did
not support the case of the prosecution on any material point. It is in the
evidence of “X” that accused did nothing with her. Informant, PW6 also stated
that on the day of occurrence at about 11 PM the accused talked with his
daughter “X”. When he raised “who,” the accused fled away. PW5, the mother
of the victim stated that she heard some conversation in between accused and
her daughter “X” who were in a separate room. As soon as she got up from
bed and proceeding to the room of “X”. Accused hurriedly came out of their
house. PW2, PW3, PW4 and PW7 only heard about the incident. Medical report
of the victim shows no injury or rape sign or molestation is detected. Victim

has not supported the prosecution.
17. The statement of victim is also silent as to any of the ingredients of
U/S 8 of POCSO Act. There is no any evidence that accused commits any
penetrative sexual assault to the victim that (a) accused penetrate his penis to
any extent into the vagina, mouth, urethra and anus of a victim ( child) or
makes the victim (child) to do so with accused or any other person., (b)
accused insert to any extent any object or a part of the body not being the
penis into the vagina, uirethra or anus of the victim or makes the child to do so
with him or any other person or (c ) accused manipulates any part of the body
of the victim so as to cause penis into the vagina, urethra or anus of the victim
or makes the child to do so with him or any other person or (d) accused
applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, urethra or anus of the victim or makes
the child to do so to such person or any other person. Under such
circumstances, prosecution has failed to prove the alleged charge U/S 8 of the
POCSO Act.

18. As such, I have, therefore, no hesitation to hold that accused is entitled

to get benefit of doubt. As such, acquit him and set at liberty forthwith.

19. In the result, accused is acquitted of the charge and set him at liberty.

Given under my hand and the seal of this court on this the 8" — day of
September /2017.

(S.Bora)
Special Judge,
Udalguri.
Dictated and corrected by me:-

(S.Bora)
Special Judge,
Udalguri.
