CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 60/15

Informant: — Sri Kishore Munda,
S/o- Late Mohan Munda,
R/o- Lepetkata Jungle Line,
PS- Barbaruah,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Amar Nayak,
S/o- Late Ramesh Nayak,
R/o- Lepetkata Jungle Line,
PS- Barbaruah,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. A Rob, learned Legal Aid Counsel.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 60/15
G.R. Case No. 2091/15

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Amar Nayak

Charges: Under Section 4/18/8 of POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 31-05-16, 29-06-16, 29-07-16 and 13-03-16.
Date of argument : 07-05-18.
Date of Judgment —: 21-05-18.

JUDGMENT

1) The prosecution case in a nutshell is that on 31-07-15, at about 3:00 pm, in

2)

the absence of Sri Kishore Munda (hereinafter the informant), his daughters,
the fourteen years old victim ‘Xx’, nine years old Bandana Munda and eight
years old Naina Munda went to bring goats. At that time, Sri Amar Nayak
(hereinafter the accused) in his attempt to commit rape on the victim, pulled
the victim and uttered ‘7 /ove you’ As a result, the victim 'X' sustained injuries
in the scuffle. The neighbours witnessed the incident and they chased the
accused. An ejahar regarding this incident was lodged by the informant with
the police at Lepetkata Outpost and a GD Entry No. 568 dtd. 31-07-15 was
registered and the FIR was forwarded to Barbaruah Police Station which was
registered as Barbaruah PS Case No. 209/15 under Sections 376/511 of the
Indian Penal Code (IPC in short) and SI Sushil Gogoi was endorsed with the
investigation.

The investigating officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation and
he recorded the statements of the witnesses and prepared Sketch-Map of the
place of occurrence. He forwarded the victim ‘x’ for medical examination and
also for recording her statement under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure (CrPC in short). On finding prima facie materials against the

accused, the IO submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused under Sections
3)

4)

5)

6)

7)
8)

376/511 IPC, read with Section 8 of the POCSO Act.
On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
the sides, a formal charge under Sections 4/18/8 of the POCSO Act was
framed and read over and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his
guilt and claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of nine
witnesses including the IO and exhibited several documents, while the
accused cross-examined the witnesses to refute the charges.
I have heard the arguments forwarded by the learned counsel for both the
sides.
To deiced the case in its proper perspective, the following points are apposite
for proper adjudication of this case:

i. Whether on 31-07-15, the accused attempted to commit

penetrative sexual assault on the minor victim 'X'?
ii. Whether at the same time and place, the accused
committed sexual assault on the minor victim 'X'?
DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

To properly adjudicate this case, it is necessary to delve into the evidence.
The victim 'X' testified as PW-1 that the incident took place on 30-07-15. On
that day, she along with her sisters Bandana and Naina went to the field to
bring back their goats. At that time, she saw the accused following them.
When they returned from the field, the accused caught hold of her from the
backside and uttered ‘J /ove you...... I love you’ He touched her breasts and
pulled her skirt and then she and her sisters screamed and the farmers
working in the paddy field came to their rescue and drove away the accused.
They also assaulted him and flung him into the drain. The accused then
caught her and she tried to escape and she fell on the ground above the
gravel and sustained injuries on her abdomen and knees. The villagers
handed the accused over to the police. Then she returned to her house and
she narrated the incident to her parents. On the same day, she went to the
police station along with her father and the police recorded her statement
and forwarded her to Assam Medical College & Hospital at Dibrugarh for
medical examination. She was also produced before the Magistrate who
recorded her statement. Ext. 1 is her statement before the Magistrate and
Ext. 1(1) and Ext. 1(2) are her signatures.
9) In her cross-examination, she testified that the incident took place on a busy
public road where several vehicles ply. She admitted that there was
acrimonious relationship between her family members and the accused
person.

10) It is clear from the evidence of the victim, PW-1, that the accused did not
attempt to commit rape on the victim. No overt act can be ascribed to the
accused that he attempted to commit penetrative sexual assault on the
victim. The victim’s testimony depicts that the accused groped her breasts
and he expressed his love for her. Her evidence depicts sexual assault on the
victim.

11) PW-1's father is the informant and he testified as PW-2 that the incident took
place during the time of vacation. He was not at home at the time of the
incident. When he returned to his house at about 3:00 pm, he noticed that
the public assaulted the accused and he learnt from his daughter that when
she went to bring back the goats along with her sister, the accused caught
her and molested her. They handed the accused over to the police. On the
same day, his brother Binod Munda wrote the FIR and he affixed his
signature on the FIR. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext. 2(1) is his signature.

12)In his cross-examination, PW-2 testified that Ext. 2 was written in the police
station and he did not know what was written in the Ext. 2.

13)The informant’s evidence is scrutinized carefully. He has stated that the
accused molested his daughter, but he did not describe the act of the
accused. However, his evidence depicts that the accused misbehaved with his
daughter and he was apprehended by the public and assaulted.

14) The evidence of PW-1 and 2 is supported and corroborated by the evidence
of Smti. Bandana Munda who testified as PW-3 that the victim 'X' is her elder
sister. The incident took place about a year ago. On the day of the incident,
at about 4:00 pm, she along with her elder sister 'X' and her younger sister
Naina Munda went to the nearby field to bring back their goats. While they
were returning from the field, the accused caught 'X' from backside and
touched her breasts and tried to pull her skirt. Then she along with her sister
raised alarm. Some farmers, who were working in the paddy field, came to
her rescue and apprehended the accused. At that time, the accused fell down
into the nearby drain. When the farmers chased, he ran away shouting ‘7 /ove

you ... I love you. PW-3 further testified that when the accused caught her
elder sister, her sister sustained injuries on her abdomen and knees at the
time when she tried to escape from the accused person’s clutches. The
villagers kept the accused confined for a while and they returned to her
house and narrated the incident to their parents. The villagers took the
accused to the police station and she along with her sister 'X' went to the
police station.

15) The evidence of PW-1, 2, 3 and 4 clearly depicts that when three sisters went
to bring back the goats, the accused committed sexual assault on the victim
"xX.

16) Smti. Naina Munda testified as PW-4 that the victim 'X' is her elder sister. The
incident took place about a year ago. On the evening of the incident, she
went with her sister 'X' and Bandana Munda to the nearby field to bring back
the goats from the field. While they were returning from the field, the
accused caught her sister 'X' from the backside and then she (PW-4) was
terrified and she ran away towards her house. Later, she came to know that
the accused was apprehended by the villagers and handed over to the police.
She along with her sister 'X' and Bandana went to the police station on the
same day.

17) PW-4 did not witness the overt act of the accused, but she was present at the
time when they went to bring back the goats and when the accused caught
the victim from the backside. Thereafter, PW-4 was terrified and she ran
away to her house.

18) The evidence of PW-1, 2, 3 and 4 is supported by the evidence of Sri Binod
Munda who testified as PW-5 that he is the paternal uncle of the victim 'X’.
The incident took place in the month of July, 2015. On the evening of the
incident, when he returned from work, he learnt from the victim's father that
while the victim 'X' along with her sister went to bring back the goats, the
accused caught and tried to molest her. The nearby people working in the
field, caught the accused and handed him over to the police. In the evening,
he went to the police station and the police recorded his statement. When
asked the victim about the incident, she informed him that the accused
caught her while she went to the field along with her sister, but she somehow
managed to escape.

19) The evidence of PW-1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 is corroborated and supported by the
evidence of PW-6 Sri Bhaskar Bhumij who testified that the incident took
place in the month of July, 2015. On the evening of the incident, at about
4:00 pm, he returned from duty and learnt from his family members that the
accused tried to commit misdeed with the victim 'X' while she went to the
nearby field along with her sister. He went to see the accused person who
was apprehended and kept confined by the villagers. At that time, the
accused went towards the victim 'X' escaping from the villagers. Then he
caught the accused and went to the police station along with the victim's
father and other villagers and handed him over to the police. The victim’s
father lodged an ejhar.

20) Scrutinizing the evidence of PW-5 and 6, it can be held that they heard about
the incident. PW-5 heard about the incident from the victim, while PW-6
himself caught the accused when he went towards the victim by escaping
from the clutches of the villagers who kept him confined. This part of the
evidence is the latter part of the incident.

21) The evidence of PW-7 depicts the latter part of the incident.

22)Sri Shankar Mura has testified as PW-7 that the accused person and the
victim 'X' are known to him. The incident took place about a year ago. On the
day of the incident, at about 4:00 pm, he was returning from duty and he
saw the accused being held captive by the villagers in the paddy field near
the victim’s house. He also saw the victim 'X' at the place of occurrence and
she was in tears and when he asked her as to why she was crying, she
informed him that when she went to see goats in the nearby field along with
her sisters, the accused tried to molest her by holding her from the backside.
Then the villagers asked him (PW-7) and Bhaskar Bhumij to take the accused
to the police station. At that time, the victim's father also arrived and took the
accused to the police station. The victim also went to the police station.

23) This witness reached the spot immediately after the incident and at that time,
the victim was crying and then he and Bhaskar Bhumij took the accused
accompanied by the victim’s father and also the victim.

24) At this juncture, it is pertinent to mention that the cross-examination of the
witnesses is not noteworthy. No contradiction could be elicited on cross-
examination of the witnesses and the evidence of all the witnesses could not
be impeached by cross-examination.

25)Sri Mohan Rao testified as PW-8 that the accused and the victim are his

neighbours. The incident occurred about a year ago. On the day of the
incident, at about 4:00 pm, while he was going from his house, he saw the
accused being taken by the villagers towards the police station. Then he
immediately went towards him and learnt from the villagers that the accused
tried to misbehave with the victim when she was proceeding along with her
sisters towards the field. He also learnt that the victim sustained injuries on
her leg when she tried to save herself from the accused person.

26)Thus, it can be safely held that the evidence of the witnesses are
corroborative. There is clinching evidence that the accused person is
complicit.

27)The IO is an official witness and his evidence as PW-9 depicts that on
31-07-15, while serving as In-Charge at Lepetkata Outpost, he received an
ejahar from the informant and he registered Lepetkata Outpost GDE No. 568
dtd. 31-07-15 and forwarded the FIR to Barbaruah Police Station and this
case was registered and the accused was already produced by the informant
along with villagers in the outpost and he took custody of the accused. He
conducted investigation and recorded the statements of the witnesses. On
finding prima facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet against the
accused. Ext. 5 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 5(1) is his signature.

28) He denied the suggestion that the victim was not above 19 years at the time
of the incident. No evidence regarding the age of the victim could be
produced by the defence. It is thereby held that the victim was a minor at
that time of the incident.

29) It has already been held in my foregoing discussions that the evidence of the
victim and her sisters who were present at the spot at the time of the
incident, does not implicate that the accused attempted to commit
penetrative sexual assault on the victim. There is a hint that the accused
lifted her skirt, but no overt act could not ascribe to the accused that he
attempted to commit penetrative sexual assault. On the other hand, the
evidence of PW-1, 2, 3 and 4 proves beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused sexually assaulted the victim because he touched her breasts. The
victim has categorically stated that the accused touched her breasts and he
also uttered J /ove you ... I love you’. The evidence of the witnesses are
corroborative. The oral and documentary evidence are also corroborative and
supportive.

30)In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that there is clinching
evidence that the accused is complicit. Thereby the accused is held guilty of
offence under Section 8 of POCSO Act.

31)I have heard the accused on the point of sentence. He has pleaded
innocence.

SENTENCE:

32) The accused Sri Amar Nayak is convicted under Section 8 of the POCSO Act
and is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI in short) for 3 (three)
years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand) only and in
default of payment of fine, to undergo RI for 1 (one) month. The period of
detention of the accused during investigation and trial is set off with his
custodial sentence.

33) Furnish free copies of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.
Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 21° day of
May, 2018.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Contd.
APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 The victim ‘Xx’;
2. PW-2 Sri Kishore Munda;
3. PW-3 Smti. Bandana Munda;
4. PW-4 Smti. Naina Munda;
5. PW-5 Sri Binod Munda;
6. PW-6 Sri Bhaskar Bhumij;
7. PW-7 Sri Shankar Mura;
8. PW-8 Sri Mohan Rao; and
9. PW-9 Sri Sushil Gogoi.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim ‘xX’ recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Sketch-Map;
4. Ext. 4 Extract copy of Lepetkata OP GDE No. 568 dtd. 31-07-15; and
5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
