IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sess. Spl. Case No.23/2015
U/S 447/376 of IPC, read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.

Present : Md. M. Ahmed,
Sessions Judge,
Morigaon.

State of Assam

Vs

Md. Sulman Ali.

Appearance for the Parties

Advocate for the State :- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.
Advocate for the accused __:- Mr. M. Islam, Advocate,
Date of recording evidence :- 08.01.2016

Date of Argument :- 08.01.2016.

Date of Judgment :- 25.01.2016.

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case may be re-counted in a nutshell as under :-

Informant is one Md. Rofiqul Islam, son of Md. Abdur Rahman of
village Nagabandha under Laharighat P.S. in the district of Morigaon and the
victim Miss- X (real name is withheld to screen the victim from infamy and
ignominy) was his daughter. The victim was then 10 (ten) years of age. On the
eventful day i.e. on 04.05.2015 at around 8.00 P.M. the victim went to a tube-
well situated at the campus of her house to clean herself, then the afore-
named accused came from behind, gagged her mouth, took her to nearby
prayer hall and subjected her to forcible sexual intercourse. The matter was
agitated before the elderly person of the village, but the informant got no

fruitful result, so, he after few days, lodged an F.I.R. before the then I/C
Borsala Police outpost and on receipt of the same, the I/C of Borsala Outpost
forwarded the same to the then O/C of Laharighat P.S. to register a case under
proper sections of law. Accordingly, the O/C Laharighat P.S. registered a case
vide Laharighat P.S. Case No.228/15, U/s 447/376 (2) (i) of IPC, read with
Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused Md. Sulman Ali of village
Nagabandha. .

The investigation was set in motion. During the course of
investigation, the I.O. visited the place of occurrence, examined the material
witnesses and also examined the victim girl and arrested the accused.
Subjected the victim to medical examination and also subjected her to be
examined by the Court and upon collecting the birth certificate and medical
documents and having completed the investigation, the I.0. submitted charge-
sheet against the afore-named accused with allegation of offences punishable
U/s 447/376 (2) (i) of IPC, read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. Initially, the
accused produced before this Court, thereafter, after submission of charge-
sheet, this Court furnished the copies of relevant documents to the accused,
who was in jail custody. Subsequently, the accused was granted Court bail.
Thereafter, having heard Ld. Counsel of both sides and basing upon the
materials on record, framed charge U/s 447/376 of IPC, read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act and read over and explained the particulars of charge to the

accused to which he absurd guilty and claimed to be tried.

2. Point for determination :

(i) In the instant case, it is to be determined that if the present accused
on the eventful day i.e. on 04.05.2015 at around 8.00 P.M. at village
Nagabandha under Laharighat P.S. in the district of Morigaon,
committed criminal trespass having lawfully entered into the
residential campus of the informant with intent to assault or annoy
the daughter of the informant and thereby at the same time

committed rape upon the victim a girl about 10 years of age.

3. In this case prosecution has examined as many as 2 (two) PWs, the
most material witnesses of this case, the informant as PW-1 and the victim

as PW-2. But their evidence does not support the prosecution case on
material aspects. In that event examination of the accused U/s 313 Cr.P.C.
was found to be redundant and was dispensed for ends of justice. The

accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. In this case it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful
day, while the victim girl went to by the side of a tube-well located in the
campus of her house, the afore-named accused came from behind, gagged
her mouth and took her to a nearby prayer hall and committed rape upon
her.

In this case, the victim girl as PW-2 does not support the prosecution
allegation. According to her, she was a student of Class-VI at the relevant
time and had love affairs with the afore-named accused, so, she wanted to
get married with the accused and on the eventful day, she went to the
prayer house to meet the accused and her father got wind of the matter,
so, he went there to bring her back. Subsequently, her father brought this
case against the accused. She has further stated that the accused did
nothing wrong with her.

Evidence of PW-1, the father of the victim and the informant of this
case goes with the same line of the evidence of PW-2. In his evidence PW-
1 has stated that his daughter then aged about 10 years. She was a school
going girl. All of a sudden, his daughter was found missing from his house,
so, he searched for her here and there and finally, he detected her near
one prayer house and on reaching there, he found his daughter conversing
with the accused and then he brought back his daughter to his house. He
felt offending as because the accused talked with his daughter at that
place. So, he filed this case.

I have subjected the evidence of both the materials witnesses to
critical analysis and it is found that none of them supported the prosecution
case on material aspects. The prosecution alleged that the accused forcibly

took the victim to the prayer house and committed rape on her. But PW-2,
the victim refused that allegation. According to her, she had love affairs
with the accused and on the eventful day she voluntarily went to the prayer
house to meet the accused and her father got wind about it and he went

there to being her back. Further, the accused did nothing wrong with her.

5. Thus, we have found that the material part of the prosecution case
remained un-substantiate, as the victim herself stated that the accused did
nothing wrong to her. So, we have found that the most material witness of
this case as PW-1 & PW-2 did not support the prosecution allegation in its

material aspects.

6. In view of the above discussion, I have found that the prosecution has
miserably failed to establish the guilt of the accused for the offences
punishable U/s 447/376 IPC, read with Section 4 of POCSO Act beyond all
reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused is not found guilty for the
offences punishable U/s 447/376 of IPC, read with Section 4 of POCSO Act

and as such, he is acquitted and set at liberty.

Judgment delivered in the open Court on this 25" day of January, 2016

under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Sessions Judge

Morigaon.
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witness

1. PW-1 :- Md. Rafiqul Islam,
2. PW-2 :- Miss Rasida Khatun,
B. Defence witness : Nil.

C. Prosecution Exhibit : Nil.

D. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Morigaon.
