1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 16/2015/ Sessions
Case No. 61/2016 corresponding to GR
Case No. 1091/2015 & Manja Police
Station Case No. 59/2015

Under section 4 of the POCSO Act

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Duta Sing Difusa
Name of informant/complainant:_
Shri Premananda Hasnu
S/O Late Phul Sing Hasnu
Village: Kheroni
PS: Manja
District: Karbi Anglong, Assam
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Duta Sing Difusa
S/O Late Iron Sing Difusa
Village: Kheroni
PS: Manja
District: Karbi Anglong, Assam

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defense : Mr S. Boro
Argument heard on : 29.08.2019

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 03.09.2019

UDGMENT
2|Page

l.

It is a case of penetrative sexual assault alleged to
have been committed by the accused person.

. The prosecution case in brief is that on 30.11.2015,

the informant-Shri Premananda Hasnu lodged an
ejahar with the O/C of Manja Police Station stating
inter alia that on 29.11.2015 at about 5:00 PM while
his victim daughter aged 8 years was enjoying
television in the house of Shri Ranjit Bodosa with her
friends, she went outside to attend natural call, the
accused gagged her mouth and brought her to the
backside of the house of Ranjit Bodosa and raped her.
Later on, his daughter managed to free herself from
the clutches of the accused and arriving at house,
she told everything before them. On receipt of the
ejahar, O/C Manja Police Station registered a case
vide its Police Station case No. 59/2015 under section
376(f) IPC R/W section 4 of the POCSO Act. On
completion of investigation, 1.0. submitted the
charge-sheet under sections 376(a) of IPC and 4 of
the POCSO Act against the accused person. Hence
the prosecution has come up.

On completion of appearance of the accused person,
copy was furnished to him and this case was
committed to the Court of the then Sessions Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu as it was sessions triable.
Thereafter, this case was transferred to this Court for
disposal. On perusal of the case record along with
case diary and after hearing learned lawyers of both
sides, | found sufficient grounds for presuming that
the accused person committed the offence under
section 4 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, the charge
was framed. The particular of the offence charged
3|Page

ea

was duly read over and explained to the accused
person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to
be tried.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many as 10
(Ten) witnesses including the informant and the
alleged victim. Statement of the accused person was
recorded under section 313 of CrPC. Defence
declined to adduce evidence. Plea of defence is of
total denial.

Points for determination are:

Whether the accused person on 29.11.2015
at about 10:00 PM in the backside of the
house of Ranjit Bodosa situated at Village
Kheroni under Manja Police Station caused
penetrative sexual assault to victim aged 8
(eight) years and that he thereby committed
an offence punishable under section 4 of the
POCSO Act?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal
arguments advanced by the learned counsels of both
sides as well as evidence on record. At the very
outset, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of
the accused person has contended that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case
against the accused person. On the other hand, the
learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the
4|Page

aforesaid submission has submitted that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case
against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions, it
would be appropriate to give a glance at evidence on
record.

7. PW-1 is Shri Premananda Hasnu who has deposed
that he is the informant of this case and he knows
the accused person. The victim is his daughter. The
incident occurred on 29" November, 2015. On the
day of occurrence at about 5:00 PM, his daughter
went to the house of adjacent resident, Ranjit Bodosa
as she was called by the daughter of Ranjit Bodosa.
At that time, daughter of Ranjit Bodosa was alone at
their house. His daughter and the daughter of Ranjit
Bodosa were enjoying television together. After a
while, his daughter came running to their house and
with trembling and told his wife that amidst the
watching TV, she went outside to attend the call of
nature and at that time, the accused took his
daughter by pulling to the backside of the house of
Ranjit Bodosa and tried to rape her. While the
accused through his penis touched the vagina of his
daughter, she ran shouting to his house and narrated
the happening before them. He and his wife
immediately went to the place of occurrence, but the
accused left the place. They noticed the accused
standing at a considerable distance and while they
tried to catch him, he managed to flee. Thereafter, he
informed the matter to VDP and the VDP informed
the matter to the police. In the night itself, police
came to his house and brought his daughter for
medical examination. On the next day of the
5|Page

occurrence, he lodged the ejahar at Manja Police
Station. Ext.l1 is the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his
signature. On the same day, the son of the accused
handed him (accused) over to police. At the time of
occurrence, the age of the victim was seven years.
Police brought his daughter to Diphu Civil Hospital for
medical examination and got the statement of the
victim recorded in the Court. Later on, the Court
handed over the victim girl to him.

8. PW-2 is Shri Shiv Kumar Difusa who has stated in his
evidence that he knows the informant, the victim and
the accused person. The occurrence took place on
29.11.2015. On the next day of the occurrence, he
was informed by his wife that the accused tried to
rape the daughter of the informant and thereby his
wife urged him to take stock of the occurrence at the
house of the informant. Going to the house of the
informant, he came to know that the accused tried to
rape the daughter of the informant by pulling her to
the backside of the house of Ranjit Bodosa. At the
time of coming to the house of the informant, he
found police there. He knew that the police took the
victim to hospital for her medical examination. Police
arrested the accused on the next day of the
occurrence. At the time of occurrence, the victim was

8(eight) years old.

9. PW-3 is Shri Ratneswar Hasnu who has stated that he
knows the informant, the victim and the accused
person. The occurrence took place in the year 2015.
On the date of occurrence during evening hours, he
was at the marriage ceremony held at the house of
the brother of the informant. At about 7:00 PM, the
6|Page

informant and his wife came to the wedding house
and told him that the accused raped their victim
daughter and asked him to inform the matter to
police as he was VDP secretary at that time. Then he
went to the house of the informant and found the
victim weeping. As she was weeping, he did not ask
her anything. Thereafter, he along with 8/9 persons
went to the house of the accused. As they did not
find the accused at his house, he gave the phone
number of police station to the informant and
accordingly, the informant appraised the matter to
Manja Police Station. On the next day of the
occurrence, the son of the accused handed him
(accused) to the police station. At the time of
occurrence, the victim was 8(eight) years old.

10.PW-4 is Shri Birthu Jigdung who has stated that he

11.

knows the informant, the accused and the victim. The
incident occurred in the year 2015. On the day of
occurrence, he heard from the villagers that the
accused forcibly raped the victim. He could learn that
the accused took the victim by pulling to the
backside of the house of Ranjit Bodosa and raped her
there. Later, he came to know that the police
arrested the accused person. At the time of
occurrence, the victim was 8 (eight) years old.

PW-5 is Dr Mercy Rongpharpi who deposed that on
30.11.2015 while she was working at Diphu Civil
Hospital as Medical & Health officer-l, he examined
the victim in connection with Manja PS Case
No.59/2015 and found no visible external injury on
her body. She also found hymen intact and no
7|Page

12.

injury/bruise over the labia minor. X-ray was done for
determination of age. The age of the girl was found in
between 7 to 8 years. She also stated that as per
physical examination, there was sign of attempted
penetration. Ext.2 is the medical report and Ext.2(1)

is her signature.

PW-6 is Shri Ranjit Bodosa who stated that he knows
the informant, the victim and the accused person.
The family of the victim lives near his house. The
incident took place about three years back. On the
day of occurrence, he went outside for doing some
works. On his return home at about 7 PM, his
daughter-Isha and victim informed him that while
they were watching TV at his house, the accused
brought the victim outside the house and raped her.
At the time occurrence, except victim and his
daughter, there was nobody in his house. At the time
of occurrence the age of the victim and his daughter
was about 6-7 years. Later, he came to know that the
informant lodged the case at the police station. He
did not meet the accused after the occurrence.

13.PW-7 is the victim of this case who has testified in

her deposition that the incident took place about
three years back at 5:00 PM. At the day of
occurrence, she went to the house of Isha to watch
TV. At the time watching TV, she went out for
attending natural call. At that time, the accused
caught hold of her and took her to the backside of
the house. The accused removed his pant and he
touched her private part (organ of urination) through
his penis. Then she ran away to the house by pushing
8|Page

the accused. She told the incident to her mother. The
police brought her to Diphu Civil Hospital for medical
examination and got her statement recorded in the
Court.

14. PW-8 is Miss Esha Bodosa who told that she
knows the victim, the accused and the informant.
The incident occurred about three years back. At
the time of occurrence, she and victim were
watching TV and no one was present there except
them in their house. It was about 6 PM when victim
came out for attending natural call. After a while,
when she heard the crying of the victim, she also
came outside and saw the accused fleeing away
and victim was moving towards her house by
weeping. In fear, she also went to the house of the
victim. Victim informed her that the accused had
raped her. Thereafter, she and victim told the whole
incident to the mother of the victim.

15.PW-9 is Shri Rabinsing Jahari who deposed that he
does not know the informant, but met the accused in
the police station. The occurrence took place in the
year 2015. On the day of occurrence, he went to the
place of occurrence along with the investigating
police officer. The investigating police officer talked
to the informant keeping him on the road. He did not
know what their conversation was. He does not know
except this much.

16.PW-10 is Shri Jitendra Nath Das who is the I.O. of this
case. He stated that on 29.11.2015 while he was
working as Second Officer at Manja Police Station at
5:30 PM, Shri Hemaram Medhi informed them that a
9|Page

senior man raped a minor girl at Kheronigaon. On
receipt of this information, the OC of their police
station made GDE No.625 and directed him to
investigate the case. As per direction of the OC, he
went to the place of occurrence along with his staffs.
He enquired of the matter from the persons who were
available at the place of occurrence. Although he
searched the accused, he did not find him. On the
next day, i.e. 30.11.2015 the informant, Premananda
Hasnu lodged an ejahar at the police station. Ext.1 is
the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his signature. On the day of
lodging ejahar, the accused personally appeared in
the police station and on interrogation, he confessed
that he raped victim, daughter of the informant. Then
he arrested him and forwarded him to the Court. On
that day, he got the victim medically examined and
got her statement recorded in the court. On that he
again left for the place of occurrence and took three
photographs of the place of occurrence. Ext.3, Ext.4
and Ext.5 are the photographs of the place of
occurrence. He collected the statement of the victim
recorded under section 164 of CrPC. and medical
report of the victim. On completion of investigation,
he found sufficient materials against the accused
person and accordingly, submitted charge-sheet
under section 376(f) of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act.
Ext.7 is the charge-sheet and Ext.7(1) is his

signature.

17.Now let us see whether at the time of occurrence the
victim was a child nor not. As per ejahar marked as
Ext.1 victim was 8 years old. According to PW-1 who
is father of the victim that at the time of occurrence
the victim was 7 years old. According to PW-2 to PW-
10|Page

4 at the time of occurrence the victim was 8 years
old. PW-5 is the Medical Office who examined the
victim on 30.11.2015 and according to her the victim
was 7/8 years old. The defence has declined to cross
examine the Medical Officer marked as PW-5 who has
clearly deposed that on 30.11.2015 the victim found
to be 7/8 years old. Considering all aspects | find no
way to disbelieve the evidences as regards age of the
victim girl on record. Hence | have come to
conclusion that at the time of occurrence the victim
was a child having age of 8 years.

18.In this case entire case lies on evidence of the victim
and her friend marked as PW-8. Both victim and her
friend marked as PW-8 have categorically stated that
prior to the occurrence both of them were enjoying
TV in the house of PW-8 and that at that time there
was no any other member in the house. The victim
has very naturally deposed before the court that
while she came out from the house for attending
natural call the accused coming from back side took
her back side of the house and after removing her
pant he made his penis connected with her private
part. She has further stated that after pushing the
accused she came to the house running and informed
her mother about the occurrence. PW-8_ has
supporting the evidence of the victim girl deposed
that hearing crying of the victim she came out and
saw the victim going towards her house crying and
accused fleeing away. She further has stated the
victim had told her that the accused raped her.
Evidence of the Medical Officer who examined the
victim shows that on examination hymen was found

to be intact. Hence it can be said that there was no
11|Page

penetration. | find that the evidence of the victim girl
has corroborated by the Medical evidence.

19.PW-1 is the father of the victim. His evidence shows
that victim came house back crying and told him and
his wife about the occurrence. His evidence also
shows that Police got the statement of the victim
recorded under section 164 of the CrPC. PW-10 is the
Investigating Officer he has also stated that he got
the statement of the victim recorded under section
164 of the CrPC in the court. | have also very
carefully gone through the said statement wherein
the victim has stated that the accused coming from
back side hugged her and made his penis connected
with her private part. Taking all aspects | find no way
to disbelieve the evidence of victim girl.

20.The section 3 of the POCSO Act relates to penetrative
sexual assault which reads thus:- “3. Penetrative
sexual assault.- A person is said to commit

"penetrative sexual assault" if-
a. he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into

the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or
b. he inserts, to any extent, any object or a

part of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina,
the urethra or anus of the child or makes the child to

do so with him or any other person; or
C. he manipulates any part of the body of the

child so as to cause penetration into the vagina,
urethra, anus or any part of body of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or
12|Page

d. he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina,
anus, urethra of the child or makes the child to do so
to such person or any other person.”

21.The section 4 of the POCSO Act relates to Punishment
for penetrative sexual assault which reads thus:- “4.
Punishment for penetrative sexual assault.-
Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for
a term which shall not be less than seven years but
which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall
also be liable to fine.”

22.The section 7 of the POCSO Act relates to Sexual
assault which reads thus:- “7. Sexual assault.-
Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child
touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such
person or any other person, or does any other act
with sexual intent which involves physical contact
without penetration is said to commit sexual

assault.”

23.The section 8 of the POCSO Act relates to
punishment for sexual assault which reads thus:- “8.
Punishment for sexual assault.- Whoever,
commits sexual assault, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which
Shall not be less than three years but which may
extend to five years, and shall also be liable to fine.”

ORDER
13|Page

24. In the result, | find the accused Shri Duta Sing
Difusa guilty under section 8 of the POCSO Act and
accordingly he is convicted.

25. On the point of sentence, the accused person is
heard and to that effect his statement is recorded.

26.It has been submitted by the learned lawyer
appearing on behalf of the accused person that there
is no evidence on record showing that the accused
was earlier convicted by the Court of Law and as
such the accused deserves to be punished leniently.
On the other hand, learned Public Prosecutor has
submitted that the accused needs to be punished
exemplary failing which a negative message will go
to the Society. Considering age of the accused person
and nature of the offence, | am of the opinion that
the accused deserves to be punished leniently.
Accordingly | do hereby Order the accused Shri Duta
Sing Difusa to suffer RI of 3 (Three) years and to
pay fine of Rs. 1000/- i/d SI of 2 (Two) months.
Let certified copies of Judgment and Order be
supplied to the accused person at free of cost. Also
send a copy of this Judgment to the _ District
Magistrate, Diphu, Karbi Anglong in terms of 365 of
the CrPC.

27.No order as regards recommendation ~ of
compensation under section 357 A of the CrPC is
passed.

28. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.
14|Page

29. Given under hand and seal of this court today,
the 037% day of September, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi
Anglong.

Dictated and corrected

by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong,

Diphu.
15|Page

APPENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Shri Premananda Hasnu
PW2- Shri Shiv Kumar Dev
PW3- Shri Ranteswar Hasnu
PW4- Shri Birthu Jigdung
PW5- Dr. Mercy Rongpharpi
PW6- Shri Ranjit Bodosa
PW7- Victim

PW8- Miss Esha Bodosa
PW9-Shri Rabin Sing Jahari
PW10-Shri Jitendra Nath Das

Defence Witnesses: Nil
Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Medical Report

Ext.3- GD Entry No. 625

Ext.4, Ext.5 and Ext.6- 3 (Three) Nos. photos of PO
Ext.7- Charge Sheet

Defence Exhibited: Nil

Special Judge,
16|Page

Diphu, Karbi Anglong,
Assam.
