Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/S_:

313 of CrP.
Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel of the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

22 OF 2017
(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, r/w
Section 417 of IPC, arising out of
GR Case No 1612 of 2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

State of Assam

-Vs-

1.Sri Pranjit Das

S/o Sri Nilamoni Das,

Vill- Bhalukmari,
P.S. — Chariduar;
Dist- Sonitpur.
21-08-2017.
06-01-2018.

06-01-2018.

06-01-2018.
06-01-2018.

Mr Munindra Ch Baruah,
Special Public Proecutor,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Mr RR Kalita, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Pranjit Das is put for trial for the allegation of
charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, r/w Section 417 of IPC.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that the informant’s

grand-daughter Miss “X” was enticing by accused Pranjit Das after a love affairs and
Page |2

thereafter, accused involved in illicit relationship with her. As a result, informant’s

daughter becomes seven months pregnant. Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the informant Sri Bhaben Das before the OC,
Chariduar Police Station on 17-05-2017.

4. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C, Chariduar Police Station registered the
case vide Chariduar Police Station Case No 98/17 under Section 376(2)(1) of the IPC,
r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act. After completion of investigation, O/C, Chariduar*Police
Station sent up the case against the accused person under Section 6 of POCSO Act,
r/w Section 420 of IPC.

5. On being appeared the accused before this Court,»after hearing both
the parties, charge framed under Section 4 of POCSO Act, r/w Section 417 of the
IPC. Particulars of the charge was read over, explained. to the accused to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

6. To substantiate the case,.prosecution examined three PWs i.e. the
informant, victim and mother of the victim. After examination of the witnesses,
learned Counsel for the accused submitted to close the prosecution evidence on the
ground that neither the complainant nor the victim reveals any material as to alleged
offence against the accused_and therefore, it would be futile to examine the other

witnesses. Learned Special PP also conceded.

7. On perusal of the statement of complainant, victim and mother of
victim,.1 think that prosecution case would not develop, even if examine the other
prosecution witnesses, as they were no way supported the prosecution case. Even if
examine the other witnesses, prosecution case would not develop. Speedy trial is the

right of the accused person. Considering this all, prosecution evidence is closed.

8. Accused is examined under Section 313 CrPC and the evidence
appears against the accused persons and the allegations made against the accused
person are put before me for his explanation where they denied the allegations and

declined to give defence evidence.
Page |3

9. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned Counsel for
both the sides.

10. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) "Whether the accused, on or before on
07-05-2017, at Bhalukmari under Chariduar PS,
committed penetrative sexual assault to Smti "X”
aged about 14 years minor girl as a result she
became 7 months pregnant and _ thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section
417 of IPC, r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

 

11. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate ‘the evidences on
record.
12. PW1- Sri Bhaben Das, the complainant of this case deposed that

Victim Miss “X” is his grand-daughter. At the relevant time, the victim was about 14
years of age. The incident took place in*thexmonth of May, 2017. At the relevant
time, the victim was about six months pregnant (according to her). Accused had love
affairs with his grand-daughter. When his grand-daughter become pregnant, he
asked her how she become pregnant and then she told me that accused caused her
pregnant as they had lover affair each other. Then, he called the accused and asked
him about the pregnancy )and requested him to take his grand-daughter and the
accused also assured us that he will take her in the month of “Bohag”. But, he did
not take her..He ‘again asked accused to take his pregnant grand-daughter. Even he
has requested him 3” time to take his grand-daughter. At last, he declared that on
10" of ‘Bohag’ he will marry my grand-daughter. Then he asked his grand-daughter
what type of love affair with the accused. Then she shown him seven nos of letters
issued by the accused. At last, he filed the case against the accused before police
station. Ext. 1 is the ejahar filed by him and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. During
investigation police seized one school transfer certificate of his victim grand-
daughter. Ext. 2 is the seizure list of that school transfer certificate and Ext. 2(1) is

my signature.

In cross-examination he stated that victim is his grand-daughter from his
Page |4

daughter’s side. Their house is just 2 furlong from his house. If anything happened
in his daughter's house, it cannot be seen from their house. He did not see anything
about the incident. As per version of his grand-daughter he has filed the ejahar. He
does not know the contents of ejahar. Accused is also his grand-son. He also
admitted that the incident took place in between their own family, so, at present they
compromised the matter. Therefore, he does not have any grievances against the

accused. Even if the accused is acquitted they do not have any objection.

13. PW2- Smti Rumi Das, the mother of victim deposed that she=knows
accused Pranjit Das as he is her nephew i.e. the grandson of her BordeutasVictim
Miss “X” is her daughter. At the relevant time, the victim was about 14 years of age.
Her daughter had love affairs with accused. They demand accused) to marry their
victim daughter, but, he refused. At present, She does not/ike,.to,proceed the case.
As accused did not marry her daughter, so, they have filed this case. However, at

present, they decided not to proceed the case as accused is her own relative.

In cross-examination, she stated.that she does not have any objection, if

the accused is enlarged on acquittal.

14. PW3- Miss “xX”, the victim of this case deposed that she knows
accused Pranjit Das as he belongs to their same family. About one year ago when
she went out for nature’s call someone had dragged her towards the corner of our
kitchen garden and committed misdeed to her. She does not have any love affairs
with the accused. Earlier she has love affairs with the accused. Said love affairs was
lasted for two.three months. Thereafter, she seeks out relation with the accused. In
earlier-time accused used to visit our house. Therefore, her grandfather suspected
accused to be the person involved in the act. At the time of filing the case, she was
pregnant of seven month. She does not know from whose side she becomes
pregnant. She also stated that after instituting the case by her grandfather, she has
been brought to Court by police for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC.
After recording her statement the learned Magistrate read over the contents o f the
statement and then she put her signatures. Ext.3 is the said statement and Ext.3
(1),3(2) and 3(3) are her signatures.
Page |5

In cross-examination, she admitted that she has made statement before
the learned Magistrate as per dictation of other villagers. She become pregnant not
from the side of accused Pranjit Das but, from other persons. Accused is an innocent

person. She does not have any objection, if, he is enlarged on acquittal.
15. These much is the prosecution evidence.

16. The accused is charged under Section 417 of the IPC, r/w Section 4 of
POCSO Act. To prove the charge under Section 417 of IPC, prosecution‘must prove

that —

"(i1) Accused voluntarily or dishonestly_induced
the complainant;

(ii) He did so for delivery of some property
either to the accused or some other person;

(iit) He intentionally induced the complainant to
do a thing which he would not do omit to do —
thing which he would have done if not induced,
(iv) such act caused was likely to cause some
damage or harm to his body, mind, reputation or

property.”

17. From the statement_of victim and other witnesses, it appears that
none of the ingredients is fulfillsbysany witnesses. The victim by giving good bye to
the prosecution case stated that-accused is an innocent person and as such she does
not have any objection, if, he’is enlarged on acquittal. Therefore, allegation of charge

under Section 417 of IPC is failed.

18. Next, come to prove charge under Section 4 of POCSO Act,

prosecution,must prove —

Penetrative Sexual Assault. A person is said to commit “Penetrative sexual

Assault’ if -

"a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina,
mouth urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person;

b) h e inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the
body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the
child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

Cc) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to
cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body or
Page |6

the child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or
d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra
or the child to do so to such person or any other person’.

19, In this type of cases, the evidence of victim is much
more important. Here in this case, PW3-the victim, Miss “X” no way supports the
prosecution case. She herself stated that incident took place one year ago when she
went out for nature’s call someone had dragged her towards the corner of our
kitchen garden and committed misdeed to her. She does not have any love affairs
with the accused. Earlier she has love affairs with the accused. Said love affairs was
lasted for two three months. Thereafter, she seeks out relation with the-accused. In
earlier time accused used to visit our house. Therefore, her grandfather.suspected
accused to be the person involved in the act. At the time of filing the case, she was
pregnant of seven month. She does not know from whosexside she becomes
pregnant. In her cross-examination also she admitted that she made statement
before the learned Magistrate as per dictation of \other villagers. She become
pregnant not from the side of accused Pranjit Das.but, from other persons. Accused
is an innocent person. She does not have any, objection, if, he is enlarged on
acquittal. Therefore, the victim no way supports the prosecution case. Similarly, the
complainant and mother of the victim have not supported the prosecution case.
PW1-the complainant stated that Accused had love affairs with his grand-daughter.
When his grand-daughter become pregnant, he asked her how she become pregnant
and then she told me that\accused caused her pregnant as they had lover affair each
other. Then, he called. the accused and asked him about the pregnancy and
requested him to*take his grand-daughter and the accused also assured us that he
will take her_in the month of “Bohag”. But, he did not take her. He again asked
accused-to-take his pregnant grand-daughter. Even he has requested him 3" time to
take his grahd-daughter. At last, he declared that on 10" of ‘Bohag’ he will marry my
grand-daughter. Then he asked his grand-daughter what type of love affair with the
accused. Then she shown him seven nos of letters issued by the accused. At last, he
filed the case against the accused before police station. During cross-examination he
stated that the incident took place in between their own family, so, at present they
compromised the matter. Therefore, he does not have any grievances against the
accused. Even if the accused is acquitted they do not have any objection. PW2- the
mother of the victim also stated in her evidence that her daughter had love affairs

with accused. They demand accused to marry their victim daughter, but, he refused.
Page |7

At present, She does not like to proceed the case. As accused did not marry her
daughter, so, they have filed this case. However, at present, they decided not to
proceed the case as accused is her own relative. During cross-examination she also
admitted that she does not have any objection, if the accused is enlarged on
acquittal. Therefore, none of the ingredient of the alleged charged is proved by

prosecution. Hence, charge under Section 4 of POCSO Acct is failed.

20. On careful perusal of the whole case record, it appears, that
prosecution has categorically failed to prove any of the alleged charges against the
accused. Hence, I do not have any hesitation to acquit the accused. Accordingly,

accused Pranjit Das is acquitted and set them at liberty forthwith.

21. The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged:

22. Send back the LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal. of this Court on this the 6” day of
January, 2018.

(A. K. Borah)

Special Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Dictated and corrected by‘me.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |8

APPENDIX

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Sri Bhaben Das, Complainant,
2.PW2 — Sri Rumi Das &
3.PW2 — Miss “X” (victim).

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

1. Ext. 1 : The ejahar.
2. Ext. 2 : The seizure list of School Transfer Certificate.
3. Ext. 2 : Statement of the victim recorded under Section’164 CrPC.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
