-1-

IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, BAJALI,
PATHSALA

Spl. POCSO Case No. 14 of 2018
U/S - 366 (A) IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

State
- Versus -
Rubul Ali @ Adit

: Accused person.

Present :
Sri L.K. Saikia, AJS.
Additional Sessions Judge, Bajali, Pathsala.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Smti. Dhira Devi Ld. Addl. P. P.

For the accused persons : Sri Giridhar Choudhury &

Sri Utpal Barmana Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidences : 22/06/2019, 16/07/2019,
13/009/2019.

Date of recording statements u/s 313 Cr.P.C. : 18/09/2019.

Date of Argument : 18/09/2019.

Date of Judgment : 14/10/2019.

Page No. 1 of 11
-2-

J UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that, one Archana Kalita
lodged an ejahar on 17/07/2018 with the In-Charge, Sarupeta Police
Out Post alleging, /nter-a/ia, that on 10/07/2018 at around 4 pm one
Rubul Ali with the help of other persons namely Joshna Begam, Md.
Pilina Ali, Md. Nala Ali & Safigul Ali by making conspiracy kidnapped her
minor daughter 'X' (name withheld) from her courtyard. Later on, she
came to know that accused Rubul Ali and Safigul Ali sexually harassed
her daughter. The accused person converted her daughter into Muslim
community. The informant further stated that before this incident the
accused person had kidnapped her daughter and that time also the
police recovered her daughter. Hence, this case.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, Pathsala OP registered GD Entry
No. 465 dated 17/07/2018 and forwarded the same to Patacharkuchi
Police Station to register a case under proper section of law and
accordingly it was registered as Patacharkuchi P. S. Case No. 469/18
u/s 120(B)/366(A)/34 IPC R/W 4 POCSO Act.

3. During investigation police visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statements of witnesses including the victim girl,
produced her before the Court wherein the Ld. Magistrate recorded her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C, arrested the accused person and forwarded
him to the court and after completion of investigation, having been
found prima-facie case, the I/O sent up the accused for trial by filing
charge sheet u/s 366(A) r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

4. On appearance of the accused person, heard the learned
Addl. P. P. appearing for the State and the learned defence counsel and
after perusal of materials available on record u/s 173 Cr.P.C., having
been found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person
has committed the offence, framed the formal charge under section
366 (A) IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and the accusation of charge
was read over and explained to him, to which he pleaded not guilty

Page No. 2 of 11
3.

and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined
altogether 5 (five) PWs including victim, informant and I/O. The
defence plea is of total denial. The accused person was examined u/s
313 of Cr. P. C. wherein he denied all such allegations levelled against
him by the prosecution witnesses. The defence side has not adduced
any defence evidence.

6. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person on 10/07/2018 at around 8 a.m.
kidnapped the victim girl from Dubi (Malipara) under the
jurisdiction of Patacharkuchi Police Station with intent to seduced
or to commit illicit intercourse against her will by another person

and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 366(A) IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same time, date, in
the house of accused Rubul Ali and Safiqul Ali after kidnapping
the daughter of the informant, committed penetrative sexual
assault on her and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s
4 of POCSO Act, 2012 ?

EVIDENCE OF THE WITNESSES

7. PW -1 Archana Kalita, the informant in this case deposed
that the victim is her daughter. She came to know the accused person
from the date of occurrence. The incident took place about 2 years
ago. The accused person took away her daughter from their rented
house situated at Pathsala, ward No. 3. On the day of occurrence she
went to market and on returning home, her other daughter (Nikita
Kalita) told her that her sister (victim) was going with the accused by
his motorcycle. Hearing it, searched about her daughter but found no
any clue. Before the incident several times her daughter eloped with
the accused person. So, for that on the day of incident also she went to
the said cloth shop wherein the accused person was working for
searching about her daughter. After 3 days of the happening of the

Page No. 3 of 11
-4-

incident her daughter (victim) ranged to her other daughter by
informing that they were then in Nagaon (Barpeta). Having got the
information of living at Nagaon she had filed this FIR. After that her
daughter was recovered. At the time of happening of the incident the
age of her daughter was 15 years, 3 months and she was reading in
class X. Police had seized the birth certificate of her daughter and
thereafter given jimma to her.

In cross-examination, PW 1 stated she has not mentioned
in her FIR about the delay of filing the FIR. Before this incident too her
daughter eloped with the accused for 3 (three) times. Now her
daughter is living with the accused person at Malipara. They are now
blessed by a child. She knew how her daughter had eloped with the
accused person. She does not know the actual age of her daughter.

8. PW - 2 'x' the Vitim deposed that at about 1 year ago she
eloped with the accused person and before that she went with him for
5th (five) times. One year ago one day in the morning she eloped with
the accused person and at that time she was at her house with her
mother at Pathsala ward No. 3. She went to the house of the accused
Rubul Ali willingly and this time she was in advance stage of pregnancy
for 2 (two) months from the side of accused Rubul Ali. One day accused
Rubul Ali took her to Barpeta (Bhella) for solemnizing Nikah and there
they had registered their marriage at the Kaji Office. Before this time
she eloped with the accused Rubul Ali for 5 (five) times and when for
the last time she eloped with Rubul Ali and at that time her age was
about 16 years. After registering their marriage at Bhella Kaji office she
went to the house of the accused Rubul Ali and after staying there for
about few days police brought them to the police station and thereafter
police sent her to FAAMCH, Barpeta for medical examination. After that
police produced her before the Court and in the Court magistrate had
recorded her statement (Ext. 3). While she was staying at the house of
accused person she was blessed by a child, whose name is Ressi
Ahmed. After staying 5 months at her mother’s house again she eloped
to the house of the accused Rubul Ali and now she is living with him at

Page No. 4 of 11
-5-
Dubi Malipara along with the child.

In cross-examination, PW 2 stated that Accused Rubul Ali
did not force her to go with him, she willingly eloped with him since
they had love affairs for long time. At present she is living with the
accused person as husband and wife and he did not misbehave her.
Now her mother has also maintaining good relation with accused Rubul
Ali even other family members of her mother and they have visiting

terms.

9. PW 3 - Tarulata Tahbildar deposed that at about 2 years
ago her grand daughter eloped with accused Rubul Ali. At the time of
happening of the incident her daughter was living at Pathsala in a
rented house of Dilip Kalita. On that day her daughter informed her
over telephone about the missing of her grand daughter. After
searching about 3 days her daughter lodged the FIR. Later on they
came to know that accused Rubul Ali took away her grand daughter.
Now her grand daughter is living with the accused at his house at Dubi
Malipara.

In cross-examination, PW 3 deposed that several times
her grand daughter eloped with the accused Rubul Ali and and every
time there was a case even now also she is living with Rubul Ali at his
house.

10. PW - 4 Niranjan Das deposed that on 17/07/2018 he was
working at Pathsala police out post as I/C. On that day he received an
FIR from complainant Smti. Archana Kalita and accordingly O/C
Patacharkuchi P.S. registered a case vide Patacharkuchi P.S. Case No.
469/18 u/s 120(B)/366(A)/34 IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act. 2012 and
endorsed him to investigate the case. During investigation he had
recorded the statement of the complainant. Seized the original birth
certificate of the victim on being produced by the complainant in
presence of witness namely - Tarulata Talukdar vide seizure list (Ext. 2)
and gave it jimma to the complainant. Material Ext. 1 is the birth

Page No. 5 of 11
-6-

certificate. Later on, he visited the place of occurrence and drew
sketch map (Ext. 4) of the place of occurrence. He also recovered the
victim girl and apprehended the accused Rubul Ali @ Adit. Thereafter
he was transferred to another place and as such, handed over the
case-diary to the O/C Patacharkuchi P.S.

In cross-examination, PW 4 deposed that as per the FIR
the incident took place on 10/07/2018 at about 4 am and the FIR was
lodged on 17/07/2018. Some parts of the birth certificate which was
seized by him is damaged even the place of birth is also damaged. As
the birth certificate is damaged so it was laminated by covering an
another paper in the backside. In his investigation he have not inquired
about the issuing authority even not inquired about the legality of the
birth certificate.

11. PW - 5 Sailen Kr. Kalita deposed that on 03/09/2018 he
was working at Pathsala police out post as I/C. On that day O/C
Patacharkuchi P.S. endorsed him to investigate the Patacharkuchi P.S.
Case No. 469/18 u/s 120(B)/366(A)/34 IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act.
2012 for investigation. On perusal of the case diary it appears that the
investigation has almost completed and thereafter he conducted the
the remaining investigation and after completion of investigation
finding the incident being true submitted charge-sheet vide No. 224
dated 30/09/2018 against the accused Md. Rubul Ali @ Adit u/s 366(A)
IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act. 2012. Ext. 5 is the charge-sheet and
Ext. 5(i) is his signature.

Discussions, Decision, and Reasons thereof

 

12. Perused the evidence of the witness and also gone
through the provision of law.

13. The learned defence counsel submitted that the case has
been filed due to misunderstanding of a fact and on suspicion. There is
absolutely no evidence against the accused person that he ever
induced the victim girl to go with him or by any manner. As both of

Page No. 6 of 11
-7-

them have love affairs as such, the victim girl willingly went with him
and stayed there. Moreover she went with the accused person 5 (five)
times prior to this incident. At present the victim girl is living with the
accused person at his house as husband and wife and they also
blessed by a child. Though the I/O has collected the birth certificate of
the victim but did not prove it as required under the provision of law
for which, the birth certificate could not be accepted. Considering the
above facts and circumstances, prays to acquit the accused person
from the liability of this case.

14. Per contra learned Addl. PP submits that from the
evidence of the witnesses it comes to light that on the day of incident
the accused person took away the victim girl and as such, he has
committed the offence charge thereunder and prays to pass the order

of conviction.

15. Considered the tenacious submission of the learned
counsel appearing for the accused and learned Addl. PP appearing for
the state. Also gone through the relevant materials.

16. PW 1 the informant stated that her daughter eloped with
the accused person on that day for which she lodged the FIR. Before
this incident too, she eloped with the accused person for 3 (three)
times. At present her daughter has been living with the accused person
at his house and out of their wedlock a child was born to them. PW 3
deposed that several times her grand daughter eloped with the
accused Rubul Ali and now she is living with him at his house. PW 4 is
the investigating officer who deposed that he seized the _ birth
certificate of the victim girl on being produced by the informant but he
did not inquire about the genuineness of the same by asking the
issuing authority.

17. PW 2 is the vital material witness of this case i.e. the
victim girl. She stated that she had love affair with the accused person
and on the day of incident she voluntarily went with him to his house.

Page No. 7 of 11
-8-

Thereafter they went to Bhella under Barpeta district and solemnized
marriage before the Kaji by executing Kabin-nama. At that time she
was 2 (tow) months pregnant. The victim girl also stated that prior to
this incident she eloped with the accused person for 5 (five) times.
This time also she got pregnant from the side of the accused person
and therefore she went with him. At present she is living with him as
husband and wife and they were blessed by a female child. The victim
girl also stated that the accused person did not use any force or
inducement upon her to go with him.

18. Now, on careful and dispassionate analysis of the
evidence of the prosecution witnesses, it appears that PW2 i.e. victim
girl loves the accused person prior to this incident. She in her
evidence categorically stated that she went with the accused person
on her’ own volition. Moreover, at the time of incident she was
pregnant from the side of accused person. From her evidence it is also
seen that the accused person at any point of time did not induce or
compel her to go with him rather she willingly went with him and
solemnized marriage at the office of Kaji. The victim girl in her
statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C also stated that as she loves the
accused person for long time, and her mother did not agree to give
marry her to the accused, as such she went with him. The Investigating
Officer seized the birth certificate of the victim girl during the course of
investigation but he did not inquire the genuineness by asking its
issuing authority. Hence, the said birth certificate cannot be accepted
as per the provision of law. Moreover, the prosecution side has failed to
prove the birth certificate as required under the law . Mere exhibition of
document is not enough unless it is proved as required u/s 64 of
Evidence Act. In-spite of that the delay of lodging the FIR was not
mentioned by the complainant.

19. On perusal of Section 366 (A) IPC it appears that a person
can be convicted u/s 366 (A) IPC only if taking away or enticement is
proved. In the instant case the element of taking away on enticement
by accused with force or coercion is found absent. Moreover, the age of

Page No. 8 of 11
-9-

the victim girl is also not established in this case. The prosecution also
failed to establish the age of the victim girl at the relevant time with
credible document. Therefore, in order to sustain the charge under this
section the age of the victim must be proved by the prosecution. A
kidnapping per se may not lead to any inference as to what purpose or
what intent girl has been kidnapped. The intention for which a person
is kidnapped must be gathered from the circumstances attending prior
to or at the time of and subsequent to the commission of the offence.

20. In the instant case, no such inference can be drawn from
the evidence on record that accused kidnapped or compelled the girl to
go with him with a view to seduce to illicit intercourse or knowing it to
be likely that she may be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse. In the
course of her evidence the alleged victim girl has not made any such
allegation against accused. The inducement on the part of the accused
is seemingly absent in the instant case.

21. The another charge which was framed against the
accused person is Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012. On perusal Sec. 4 of
POCSO Act and after going through the evidence available on record
particularly the evidence of the alleged victim it transpires that she
never stated anything against the accused person of the commission
of the penetrative sexual assault against her. From her evidence
nothing can even be inferred even remotely that accused had
committed the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act. As it appears from the
evidence of the prosecution side, the age of the victim could not be
established that she was a minor at the time of happening of the
incident hence, the ingredients of section 4 POCSO Act, 2012 found
missing in the instant case.

22. In view of above, it can be safely concluded that the
prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused person
beyond all reasonable doubt.

2S Accordingly, the accused Rubul Ali @ Adit is acquitted of

Page No. 9 of 11
-10-

the offences charged u/s 366 (A) IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and
set him at liberty forthwith.

24. The terms of bail bond of accused persons is extended for
a period of 6 (six) months from to-day as provided U/S 437(A) Cr.P.C.

Zo. A copy of this judgment be given to the _ District
Magistrate, Barpeta u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

26. The Spl. POCSO Case is disposed of accordingly.

27. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court
in presence of both the parties and | put my hand and seal of this Court
on this 14th day of October, 2019.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
Dictated & Corrected
by me

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Dictation taken and transcribed
by me.
(Alakesh Das, Steno)

Page No. 10 of 11
-11-

APPENDIX :-

Oral evidences :-

PW-1 Smti Archana Kalita
PW-2 Victim

PW-1 Smti Tarulata Tahbildar
PW-2 Sri Niranjan Das

PW-1 Sri Biren Kr Kalita

Documentary evidence :-

Ext.-1. Ejahar

Ext. 2- Seizure List

Ext.-3 Statement of victim
Ext.-4 Sketch Map

Ext. -5 Charge-sheet.

Material Exhibit :-
Ext. 1 Birth Certificate.

Defence evidence.
Nil.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Page No. 11 of 11
