CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 51/15

Informant: — Sri Mahabir Tanti,
S/o- Late Jibon Tanti,
R/o- No. 2 Dillighat,
PS- Namrup,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: (1) Sri Pranab Tanti,
S/o- Sri Prakash Tanti,
R/o- No. 2 Dillighat,
PS- Namrup,
District- Dibrugarh.

(2) Sri Pradip Sonar,
S/o- Sri Bal Bh. Sonar,
R/o- No. 2 Dillighat,
PS- Namrup,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. SK Todi, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 51/15
G.R. Case No. 2203/15

State of Assam
‘i Vs-

Sri Pranab Tanti

Charges: Under Section 366/34 IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 14-10-15, 08-02-16, 25-04-16, 24-05-16, 22-09-16 &

11-11-16,

Date of argument : 28-04-17.
Date of Judgment —_: 29-05-17.

1)

2)

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case as portrayed by the First Information Report is that on
06-08-15, the victim, say-X, was staying in Bokoli Sutradhar’s house at
Dillighat as guest. On that night, at about 9:00 pm, Pradip Sonar and Pranab
Tanti convinced the minor victim that they will escort her back to her house.
With such assurance, they brought the victim X from Bokoli Sutradhar’s
house. Before reaching home, Pradip Sonar and Pranab Tanti (hereinafter the
accused) gagged the victim and committed rape on her. On the following
morning, Pradip Sonar’s wife, mother and sister-in-law assaulted the victim X
and brought her back to her house and tied her up and threatened the
victim's family members not to inform the police about the incident. Pradip
Sonar also offered Rs. 300/- to the victim X. all these activities resulted in the
delay in the lodgment of the ejahar. On 10-08-15, an ejahar was lodged with
the police by Mahabir Tanti (hereinafter the complainant). The ejahar was
registered as Namrup PS Case No. 123/15 under Section 376-D/323/506/34
of the Indian Penal Code (IPC in short) and SI Ganesh Chutia was endorsed
with the investigation.

The investigating officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation. He

recorded the statements of the witnesses and prepared the Sketch-Map of
the place of occurrence. He forwarded the victim to the Court for recording
her statement under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC in
short). He seized some articles and also forwarded the victim for medical
examination. The accused persons were also forwarded for medical
examination. On finding prima facie materials, the IO submitted the Charge-
Sheet against the accused under Sections 376-D/323/506/34 IPC read with
Section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(POCSO Act in short).

3) On appearance of the accused persons, copies were furnished and after
hearing both the sides, a formal charge under Sections 366/34 IPC read with
Section 4 of the POCSO Act was framed and read over and explained to the
accused persons. Both the accused persons abjured their guilt and claimed
innocence.

4) To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of ten
witnesses including the medical officer (MO in short) and the IO. The defence
cross-examined the witnesses in extenso to refute the charges. On the
circumstances arising against them, the tenor of the answers of the accused
persons depict the plea of total denial. Pradip Sonar admitted that he went to
Jikini Sonar’s house for water and then Jikini’s mother asked him to escort the
victim to her house. He denied of committing penetrative sexual assault on
the victim or kidnapping the victim.

5) On the backdrop of the rival contentions proponed at the bar, the following
points are apposite to be taken up for decision:

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

1. Whether the accused persons in furtherance of their
common intention, kidnapped the victim X with intent that
she may be compelled to illicit intercourse with another
person?

2. Whether at the same time and place, the accused persons
committed an offence of penetrative sexual assault on the
victim?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

6) To decide the case in its right perspective, it is necessary to delve into the

evidence.

7) The victim testified as PW-1 that the alleged incident took place one month
back (from the 14-10-15). On the day of the incident, her father assaulted
her, because she was unable to cook the food properly and so she took
refuge in her friend’s house and also had food in her friend’s house. Jikini
Sonar is her friend where she took shelter. When she was in Jikini’s house,
Pradip Sonar came to her house and assured her that he would escort her
back to her house, as her parents were searching for her. She refused to go
with Pradip Sonar, but as Jikini’s parents asked her to go with Pradip Sonar,
she went with Pradip Sonar to her own house. While she was proceeding
towards her house along with Pradip Sonar, she met another person named
Pranab Tanti who was standing on the road, a few distance from her house.
Pranab Tanti suddenly pounced upon her from behind and gagged her and
tied her hands with a dupatta and forcefully took her towards a nearby
house. Then Pradip Sonar who was with them, slapped her and she fell on
the ground. Then Pradip Sonar took off her sporting and panty and forcefully
committed sexual intercourse with her. She tried to shout, but Pradip Sonar
muffled her with his hand. Thereafter, Pradip Tanti committed sexual
intercourse with her. Both Pradip Sonar and Pranab Tanti bound her by her
hands feet and held her captive throughout the night in the nearby house.
Pranab Tanti had sexual intercourse with her twice throughout the night and
Pradip Tanti had sexual intercourse with her four times throughout the night.
In the morning, at about 4:00 am, both the accused persons untied her and
asked her to go home and threatened her not to divulge about the incident to
anybody. Both the accused persons left the house. She immediately went to
Jikini‘s house and stayed there mum without talking to anybody. Then Pradip
Sonar’s family members came to Jikini’s house and assaulted her as Pradip
was missing from his house throughout the night. Pradip’s mother gave her
two tight slaps. They all tied her and took her to her own house and
thereafter tied her against a post and assaulted her. They threatened her
parents. Meanwhile, her elder sister Kunti Patra came to their house and
quarreled with them and rebuked them for assaulting her (X). Then Pradip
Sonar’s family members left their house. Her father lodged an ejahar with the
police regarding the incident. The police recorded her statement and
forwarded her for medical examination. She was also forwarded to the Court
where the Magistrate recorded her statement.

8) In her cross-examination, she stated that she never went to school. She went
to Itanagar at the age of six years and stayed there for six years. She was
well acquainted with the accused persons and she used to address them as
Dada. She stated in her cross-examination that Pradip Sonar has a shop and
she used to go to his shop occasionally. She admitted that initially, Pradip
Sonar’s mother, wife and elder sister-in-law assaulted her in Jikini Sonar’s
house. Pradip Sonar’s wife assaulted her alleging that she was having illicit
relationship with Pradip. She further admitted in her cross-examination that
she did not inform about the incident to her father for four days and she
informed her elder sister Kunti Patra about the incident on the next day of the
occurrence. She further testified in her cross-examination that the house
where the accused persons assaulted her sexually, belonged to a person
named Saila. She further stated that she was attired in a sporting and jeans
skirt at the time of the incident. She stated that she experienced pain in her
private part at the time of the incident and she did not go to any doctor after
the incident and before the lodgment of the ejahar. She further stated that
Pradip Sonar’s family members assaulted her, because they suspected her of
having illicit relationship with Pradip and as they failed to catch them red-
handed, they assaulted her. Her father lodged the ejahar as Pradip Sonar’s
family members assaulted her. On a later date, i.e., on 22-09-16, PW-1
admitted in her cross-examination that initially she stated her age as 12
years, because her sister told her so. When she got married in the month of
November, 2015 during Kali Puja, she came to know from her father that her
age was between 18-19 years and so she stated her age as 19 years on
22-09-16. She further admitted in her cross-examination that she came to
Jikini’s house. She further stated that she came to Jikini’s house at 9:00 am in
the morning and stayed there till the evening. At that time, she was attired in
a pair of jeans shirt and pant. On the next day, she went to Jikini’s house at
about 5:00 am and then the sister-in-law, mother and wife of Pradip Sonar
came along with her mother to Jikini’s house at about 8:30 am. During the
period from 5:00 am to 8:00 am, she did not inform anybody including Jikini
and her family members about any sexual intercourse by the accused
persons. She was assaulted in Lakshmi Sutradhar’s house by her mother and
family members of Pradip Sonar. Thereafter, she was brought back to her
house and tied to a post and thereafter, Pradip Sonar’s family members left

their house. The First Information Report was lodged after four days of the
9)

assault. She was accompanied to the police station by her elder sister Kunti
while her father did not accompany her. Her sister got the ejahar written by
somebody for her. She did not inform about the incident to her parents. On
the night of the incident, Pradip came to Lakshmi Sutradhar’s house and
asked her for water and at that time, Lakshmi Sutradhar asked her to return
to her house escorted by Pradip Sonar. Accordingly, Pradip Sonar
accompanied her to her house. She knew both the accused persons since her
childhood. She has admitted that her image in the society has been tarnished
as a result of this incident. She further stated that she stated her age as 12
years to the Magistrate, because she was accompanied by her sister to the
Magistrate’s Court and then her sister told her that she was 12 years and
accordingly, she gave her age as 12 years to the Magistrate. The police did
not seize her garments. She further stated that she had no grievance against
the accused persons as she is a married woman now.

The evidence of PW-1 clearly depicts that both the accused persons
committed gang rape on her. She was forcefully taken to an abandoned
house belonging to Saila, so there is also evidence of abduction against the
accused persons. But is the evidence of PW-1 reliable. I do not think so. It is
true that she has stated before the Magistrate and also sated before this
Court that throughout the night Pradip Sonar sexually assaulted her and
Pranab Tanti also had sexual intercourse with her. One had sexual intercourse
with her four times and the other had sexual intercourse with her twice
throughout the night. It is not at all believable that a minor girl who was
sexually assaulted throughout the night will not sustain any injury. The
medical officer (MO in short) in her opinion stated that no evidence of recent

sexual intercourse was detected on her body or her private part.

10)The MO Dr. Nibedita Shyam testified as PW-6 that on 11-08-15, she

examined the victim X in connection with Namrup PS Case No. 123/15 and on
physical examination and radiological investigation done on the victim, she
found that-
1.Her age is above 14 years and below 16 years;
2.Evidence of sexual intercourse not detected on her person:
3.Evidence of recent injury not detected on her body or
private part.
Ext. 1 is the Medico-legal Report and Ext. 1(1) upto Ext. 1(3) are her
Signatures. In her cross-examination, she testified that hymenal tear since
the injury was already healed and the mental condition of the victim girl was
found to be good at the time of examination. Thus the evidence of the
medical officer belies the evidence of PW-1.

11) In her cross-examination as well as in her evidence-in-chief, PW-1 has stated
that Pradip Sonar’s wife and mother and sister-in-law assaulted her. PW-1's
evidence clearly depicts that Pradip Sonar’s wife suspects of an_ illicit
relationship between Pradip Sonar and the victim X. There is every possibility
to wreak vengeance, the victim gave false evidence against Pradip Sonar.
There appears to be no reason why the victim concealed about such a brutal
sexual assault on her for four days. It is also surprising why no injury was
detected after such a brutal sexual assault throughout the night by the
accused persons. The doctor also admitted in her cross-examination that the
victim was in a good state of mind at the time of examination. It is not
believable that a minor victim will be in a sound state of mental health if she
is repeatedly sexually assaulted six times throughout the night. The
statement of the victim under Section 164 CrPC was exhibited as Ext. 2. The
Judicial Magistrate, 1° Class, Smti. Priyanka Hazarika Nayar testified that on
11-08-15, she recorded the victim’s statement under Section 164 CrPC in
connection with Namrup PS Case No. 123/15. Ext. 2 is the victim’s statement
and Ext. 2(1) is her signature. Despite the fact that the victim’s statement
under Section 164 CrPC and her testimonies incriminates the accused
persons, yet the contradictions writ at large belies her evidence. It is apt to
mention at this stage that her friend Jikini Sonar was not examined as a
witness. This is a lapse in evidence. Jikinis mother Lakshmi Sutradhar
testified as PW-3 that both the accused as well as the victim are known to
her. About six months back, one evening, at about 5:30 pm, the victim X
came to their house and stayed. Then she asked the victim X whether she
would stay in their house or return to her own house. Then X replied that her
father would beat her if she returned home and so X refused to return to her
own house. She then served food to X. After some time, Pradip Sonar visited
them and had water and he was about to leave, when the victim X expressed
her desire to return to her house with Pradip Sonar and thereafter, the victim
X left with the accused Pradip Sonar. Thereafter, they retired to bed. On the

next morning, at about 5:00 am, the victim X again returned to their house
and woke her up. She opened the door and let her in and asked X that why
she had returned again to her house, as on the previous night she (X)
already left for her own house. Then X informed her that she did not return
home after leaving their house on the previous night. But that night, she
stayed in a nearby house. After a little while, the victim’s mother and elder
sister-in-law of the accused came to their house and both the mother of the
victim and the accused person’s sister-in-law assaulted the victim in their
house precincts. Thereafter, they took the victim X with them. Later she
learnt that police had taken Pradip and Pranab with them, because the
victim's family members lodged an ejahar against the accused persons.

12) Thus, it is clear from the evidence of Jikini’s mother that the victim is the one
who proposed to leave with the accused Pradip Sonar to her house. The
entire incident was initiated by the victim X. In her cross-examination, Jikini’s
mother testified that her daughter is 18 years and the victim is older than her
daughter. The victim used to work as domestic help in Itanagar before the
incident. She stated that the accused Pradip Sonar did not voluntarily take
the victim with him. When the accused person Pradip Sonar was about to
leave after drinking water, the victim X called him and expressed her desire to
return to her house accompanied by Pradip Sonar. She (PW-3) suggested that
she would drop the victim escorting her back to her house, which the victim
refused. Thus, it is clear from Jikini’s mother as PW-3 that the entire episode
was authored by the victim X.

13) Mahabir Tanti testified as PW-2 that the alleged incident took place about two
months back. On the day of the incident, he scolded his daughter and as a
result, his daughter took shelter in Bokoli Sutradhar’s house. On the next day,
he asked his wife to look for his daughter and accordingly, his wife found
their daughter X sitting in Bokoli Sutradhar’s house. Jikini Sonar is Bokoli’s
daughter. At that time, Pradip Sonar’s wife and some other people brought
his daughter back to his house. His daughter informed him that the accused
persons committed rape on her. As he resides alone in the river side, so he
was terrified to lodge the ejahar immediately against the accused persons.
After four days, he lodged the ejahar which was written by a person. This
part of the evidence of PW-2 which explains the delay in the lodgment of the
ejahar is not consistent to the explanation of the delay mentioned in the

ejahar. In the ejahar, it is stated that the delay in lodgment of the same was
caused as his daughter was brought back and tied up in their house and as
Pradip Sonar gave Rs. 300/- to his daughter, and in contemplation and
anticipation, he lodged the ejahar on 10-08-15. In his cross-examination, he
stated that his daughter was 19 years. He did not know in whose house the
alleged incident of rape took place. He also stated that his elder daughter
Kunti Patra got the ejahar written by some other person and when he went
to the police station, his daughter asked him to affix his thumb impression
on a piece of paper.

14) Regarding the evidence of PW-2 Mahabir Tanti, it is held that his evidence
cannot be relied upon. The evidence of the victim herself was not found
reliable. The entire episode appears to be fabricated.

15) The IO is a formal witness and he conducted the investigation as led by the
complainant and the victim. The IO SI Ganesh Chutia testified as PW-10 that
on 10-08-15, while he was posted at Namrup, the Officer-in-charge endorsed
him with the investigation on receipt of the First Information Report from Sri
Mahabir Tanti. He embarked upon the investigation of the Namrup PS Case
No. 123/15. Ext. 4 is the First Information Report and Ext. 4(1) is the
signature of the Officer-in-charge with endorsement. Ext. 5 is the printed
proforma of the First Information Report and Ext. 5(1) is the signature of the
Officer-in-charge of Namrup Police Station. He recorded the statement of
Mahabir Tanti in the police station and proceeded to the place of occurrence
and prepared the Sketch-Map. Ext. 6 is the Sketch-Map and Ext. 6(1) is his
signature. He also recorded the statements of witnesses and the victim and
forwarded her to Assam Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh for medical
examination. He forwarded the victim to the Magistrate for recording her
statement under Section 164 CrPC. He arrested the accused and forwarded
them to the Court. He seized one cotton towel and Ext. 3 is the Seizure-List
and Ext. 3(2) is his signature.

16) The Judicial Magistrate recorded the statement of the accused Pradip Sonar.
This confessional statement of Pradip Sonar was not exhibited by the
prosecution. There is retraction of confession by the accused Pradip Soar. He
has admitted in his confessional statement that the victim on the night of the
incident was unwilling to return to her house and she suggested to stay with
him overnight in an abandoned house. That night, as suggested by the

victim, they had physical relationship. Although the confessional statement
10

was not exhibited, yet the confessional statement, if taken into consideration
does not implicate that the accused is complicit. The confessional statement
is not a confession in the real sense, because the accused Pradip Sonar has
stated that the victim suggested to have sexual relationship. There is
evidence of consensual sexual relationship between the victim and the
accused. Moreover, the victim has stated in her cross-examination as PW-1
that she is 19 years. Her father has stated in his cross-examination as PW-2
that the victim is 19 years and Jikini’s mother has also stated in her cross-
examination as PW-3 that the victim is 19 years. Therefore, it can be held
that the relationship between Pradip Sonar and the victim was not against the
will of the victim. The consent of a major girl indulging in sexual activity
cannot be considered as an incident of rape. The evidence of the victim was
not found reliable. Her evidence is too farfetched and sketchy. The evidence
of other witnesses does not at all implicate that the accused is complicit.

17) Sri Rajib Pradhan testified as PW-4 that both the accused persons are known
to him. The alleged incident took place about six months back. After the
incident, the police visited their village and searched for the accused persons.
He learnt from the police that the accused committed the shameful act on the
victim. In his cross-examination, he denied any personal knowledge about
the occurrence. He heard about a quarrel that took place after the incident
and the victim’s mother and the accused person’s sister-in-law assaulted the
victim.

18) Similarly, Smti. Saraswati Sutradhar testified as PW-5 that the alleged
incident took place about six months back. When the police visited their
village and took away the accused persons, she learnt that quarrel took place
and the victim’s family members lodged a case.

19) Sri Motilal Sonar testified in a similar manner that the accused Pradip Sonar is
his younger brother. The incident took place in the year 2015 and at that
time, he handed over a towel to the IO. At that time, his younger brother
Pradip was also present. Ext. 3 is the Seizure-List and Ext. 3(1) is his
Signature. The seizure of this towel does not give any hint.

20) Sri Nandeswar Tanti testified as PW-9 that both the parties are known to him.
The incident took place a year ago. During investigation, the police visited
their village and then he and Motilal Sonar went to the police station along

with the accused persons. The police arrested the accused persons with
11

reference to a case lodged by Mahabir Tanti regarding rape on his daughter.

21) Recapitulating the entire evidence, it is held that the witnesses PW-4, 5,8 &
9 did not have any knowledge about the incident. Having heard about a stray
incident of rape, they have not described who committed rape. They also did
not know about the incident and the victim was also not identified by them
with clarity. The evidence of other witnesses does not at all implicate that the
accused persons abducted the victim in furtherance of their common
intention. There is no hint of abduction with intent that the victim will be
seduced to illicit intercourse. Although the doctor gave the age of the victim
as below 16 years, yet it is held that the victim is a major. The victim herself
and her father and Jikini’s mother testified in their cross-examination that the
victim was major at the time of incident.

22) Regarding the age of the victim, I would like to divert the attention towards
Modi’s Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 21° Edition:

"It is observed that the error in case of age based on ossification
test may be + - 3 years.”

23)In this case, the victim herself testified that she was a major at the time of
the incident and taking into consideration the doctor’s evidence, the victim
appears to be a major if we consider Modi’s Medical Jurisprudence. According
to the doctor, the victim was between 14 to 16 years and adding + - 3 years,
the victim’s age tantamount to be 19 years on the higher side.

24) In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that the victim was a
major at the time of incident

25)It has already been held that the evidence of the victim does not inspire
confidence. A false case has been foisted against the accused persons at the
whim of the victim. The prosecution failed to prove beyond a reasonable
doubt that the accused persons in furtherance of their common intention
kidnapped the victim X with intent that she may be compelled to illicit
intercourse with another person. The prosecution also failed to prove beyond
a reasonable doubt that the accused persons committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim.

26) Thereby, the accused persons Sri Pranab Tanti and Sri Pradip Tanti are
acquitted from the charges under Section 366/34 IPC and Section 4 of the
POCSO Act on benefit of doubt and are set at liberty forthwith.
12

27) Destroy the seized article as per law.
Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 29" day of
May, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Contd.
13

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:

PW-1 The victim X;

PW-2 Sri Mahabir Tanti;

PW-3 Smti Lakshmi Sutradhar;
PW-4 Sri Rajib Pradhan;

PW-5 Smti. Saraswati Sutradhar;
PW-6 Dr. Nibedita Shyam;

PW-7 Smti. Priyanka Hazarika Nayar;
PW-8 Sri Motilal Sonar;

PW-9 Sri Nandeswar Tanti;
PW-10 Sri Gonesh Chutia.

List of Exhibits:

1.

een au + Ww PN

10.

en owt WN

9.

Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.

1 Medico-legal Report;

2 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
3 Seizure-List;

4 Ejahar;

5 XXXX;

6 Sketch-Map & Medico-legal Report;

7 Medico-legal Report;

8 XXXX; and

9 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
