IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

 

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 45(DH)/ 2018.
U/S 354 of IPC R/W Sec. 8 of POCSO Act.

|
The State of Assam

- Versus — |
Shri Dibya Gogoi,
S/O Lt. Suren Gbaoi,
Vill. No.2 Borachira,
P.S. Dhemaji,
Dist.- Dhemaji, 0 eccccceceesesccecscsees Accused Person.

Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor aaaceenene For the State

ShriB.Gogoi, Advocate nnn, For the Accused

Date of prosecution evidence
Date of argument

Date of Judg ment

 

: 22-11-2019.

: 22-11-2019.

: 27-11-2019.
JUDGMENT

a The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 17-07-2018 complainant-
Smt. Sunmoni Changmai lodged an ejahar with Dhemaji Police Station alleging
interalia that on 15-07-2018 at about 3.30 PM in the afternoon while her minor
daughter Smti ‘X’ went to the house of accused-Dibya Gogoi, the accused taking
advantage of absence of other persons in the house, tried to forcibly commit rape
on her by grabbing her, kissed her and touched the private part of the victim
grabbed her, and kissed her and she somehow managed to escape from the clutch
of the accused and entered into the house of her neighbor Mohan Changmai. It is
also alleged in the ejahar that the accused gave Rs.20/- to the victim and warned
her not to disclose the fact to any other else, and if she discloses it, then he would
kill her by pressing her neck.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-sheet
against the accused person u/s 354 of the IPC read with Section 8 of POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the accused, this
Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing both the sides, framed
charge u/s 354 of IPC against accused-Dibya Gogoi and read-over and explained to
him to which the accused pleaded not guilty. The prosecution, in order to prove its
case, examined two witnesses. At the closure of the prosecution evidence statement
of the accused person was recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial.
However, the defence adduced no evidence in support of his case.

4. Points for determination :

 

(1) That on 15-07-2018 at about 3.30 PM at village- No.2 Borachira
under Dhemaji Police Satiation you assaulted or used criminal force to Smti
‘xX’, @ minor girl aged about 11 years intending to outrage the modesty of
said Smti ‘*X’ in your house and thereby you committed an offence
punishable u/s 354 of IPC.

(2) That you, on the same day, time and place, committed sexual
assault on Smti ‘Xx’, a minor girl aged about 11 years, and thereby you
committed an offence punishable u/s 8 of POCSO Act.

 
; pe"
a
——

5. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard arguments
of both sides.
Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
6. PW1 Smt. Sunmoni Changmai stated that she is the complainant.
She knows the accused. Victim Smti ‘x’ is her daughter. The incident took place
about 1 year back. Her daughter used to visit accused's house for tuition class.
Accused’s elder brother used to give tuition to the victim. On the relevant day of
occurrence tutor was absent and his brother/accused was at home and he received
her saying that his brother had gone out and he would return soon. While her
daughter was sitting at the house of the accused, he talked to her and her daughter
got scared thinking that the accused might have bad intention. She ran away from
accused's house and told her about the matter and she lodged complaint. Exhibit-1
is the ejahar and EXt-1(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that the accused is her neighbor.
After filing of the ejahar they came to know that accused did not have any bad
intention and he did not cause any harm to her daughter. So, she is not willing to
proceed against the accused and they are maintaining good relation with the
accused.
ai PW2 is the victim. She stated that the complainant is her mother.
She knows the accused. The incident took place about 1 year back. She used to
visit accused’s house for tution class. Accused’s elder brother used to give her tution.
On the relevant day of occurrence tutor was absent and his brother/accused was at
home and he received her saying that his brother had gone out and he would return
soon. While she was sitting at the house of the accused, he talked to her and she
herself got scared thinking that the accused might have bad intention. She ran away
from accused's house and told her mother about the matter and she (PW1) lodged
complain.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that the accused is her neighbor.
After filing of the ejahar they came to know that accused did not have any bad
intention and he did not cause any harm to her. So, they are not willing to proceed
against the accused and they are maintaining good relation with the accused.

Appreciation of evidence :

 
8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that in this
case the complainant-Smt. Sunmoni Changmai and her daughter-Smti ‘x’ were
examined as P.W-1 and Pw2 respectively. Both the P.W-1 and PW-2 have stated
that the victim Smti ‘Xx’ used to visit the house of the accused for tuition class.
Accused’s elder brother used to give tuition to the victim. On the relevant day of
occurrence tutor was absent and his brother/accused was at home and he received
the victim saying that his brother had gone out and he would return soon. While the
victim was sitting at the house of the accused, he talked to the victim and the victim
got scared thinking that the accused might have bad intention. She ran away from
accused’s house and told her mother (PW1) about the matter and she (PW-2)
lodged complaint.
In cross-examination both PW1 and PW2 have stated that the

accused is their neighbor. After filing of the ejahar they came to know that accused
did not have any bad intention and he did not cause any harm to the victim. So,
they are not willing to proceed against the accused and they are maintaining good
relation with the accused.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is no
incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the alleged
offence. This is a case of absence of evidence. It is also seen from the evidence of
the PWs- 1 and 2 that both the parties have compromised the case outside the
Court and hence they have not deposed against the accused person. I find that the
prosecution has totally failed to prove the charges u/s 354 of IPC read with section-8
of POCSO Act against the accused person.

10. In view of the above, I find the accused-Dibya Gogoi not guilty u/s
354 of IPC read with Sec. 8 of POCSO Act. Accordingly, accused-Dibya Gogoi is
acquitted of the charges leveled against him. Set him at liberty forthwith.

11, Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
LZ, Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 27% day of
November /2019.

?
q(t"
. Das )
S Cia JNage,

 
