spec!
Cnirand

ial ju

«

Ka}

 

dge
algao"

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE) otttt::: CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

Special(P) Case No. 04(Basu)/2018

U/S 6 of POCSO Act

State of Assam
Vs.

Md. JahirulIslam |... Accused

PRESENT: Shri D.J. Mahanta,
Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon

AiJVOCATES APPEARED:

For the State ’ Shri D. Das, £@. Public Prosecutor

For the accused / Md. N.I. Siddique, Ld. Advocate

Date of Evidence — : 20.03.18, 03.04.18, 05.05.18,
01.06.18, 12.10.18, 18.07.19,
26.08.19, 23.09.19

Date of Argument. : 28.11.19 & 07.12.19
Date of Judgment: 21.12.2019

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case as revealed during trial in brief is that on
25.10.2017, the informant lodged an FIR before the I/C, Bidyapur Out Post
alleging that on that day at about 2.00 P.M., the accused Jahirul Ali while
taking his niece Miss ‘x’ (name is withheld), 9 years from her school, he
forcefully committed sexual assault upon her in the jungle near railway line

and threatened to kill her if she would divulge the incident to anybody else.

2. After receiving the FIR, the I/C, Bidyapur Out Post made GDE
No. 394 dated 25.10.2017 and forwarded the same to the O/C, Bongaigaon
P.S. for registering a case. Accordingly, the O/C of Bongaigaon P.S. registered
a case being numbered as Bongaigaon P.S. Case No.789/17 U/S 4 of POCSO
Act and entrusted SI A.K. Saha for investigation of the case. Accordingly, the
Investigating Officer arrested the accused, visited the place of occurrence,
drew sketch map of the P.O., recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent
the victim for medical examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C
and collected the medical report. Later on, Case was transferred to Basugaon
P.S. as the place of occurrence falls within the jurisdiction under Basugaon
P.S. Accordingly, the O/C of Basugaon P.S. registered a case being numbered
as Basugaon P.S. Case No. 99/2017 U/S 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted S.I.
Nobin Boro for further investigation of the case After completion of
investigation, S.I. Nobin Boro submitted charge-sheet before this court against
the accused Jahirul Islam U/S 6 of POCSO Act. After receiving charge sheet,
copies of relevant documents were furnished to the accused person. Accused
person was produced from jail. On perusal of entire materials on record and
hearing both sides and after having found a prima facie case, formal charge
U/S 6 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused. Charge was read over
and explained to the accused to which he denied to plead guilty. Later on,

accused person was released on bail during trial.

a. In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as
11 (eleven) witnesses including the M.O., I.O. and Scientific Officer.

Following witnesses were examined:-

(1) Victim Miss ‘xX’ (name is withheld) as PW 1
(2) Mustt. Ful Bibi as PW 2

(3) Md. Jinnat Ali as PW 3

(4) Informant as PW 4

(5) Md. Akbar Ali as PW 5

(6) Md. Sabed Ali as PW 6

(7) Md. Abu Sama Ali as PW 7

(8) S.I. Nobin Boro (I.0.) as PW 8

(9) Dr. Ranjeeta Das (M.O.) as PW 9

(10) S.I. Ajay Kr. Saha (I.0.) as PW 10
Ms

jal 3
Spee Ka

cnirard

\xv

\)

udge
algo"

(11) Shri Sankar Ch. Rabha (Scientific Officer, FSL) as PW 11

4. Statement of the victim recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited
as Ext.1. Seizure list was exhibited as Ext.2. FIR was exhibited as Ext.3.
Charge-sheet was exhibited as Ext.4. Medical Report was exhibited as Ext.5.
Sketch map was exhibited as Ext.6, extract copy of Bidyapur O.P. GD Entry
No. 394 dated 25.10.2017 was exhibited as Ext.7 and FSL Report was
exhibited as Ext.8. Wearing apparel of victim was exhibited as Material Ext.1.
Birth certificate of the victim was exhibited as Material Ext.2.

5. Defence plea is of partly denial. Statement of accused was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. The accused during his examination under Section
313 Cr.P.C admitted the fact that he took the victim from the school and he
dropped her in front of her home. Moreover, he also admitted that he used to
take the victim from her school prior to the incidence. In reply to a particular
question, he stated that he had confessed before villagers due to fear.
Defence adduced evidence of one Md. Sobahan Ali as DW 1.

6. Heard argument from both sides. I have perused the entire
evidence on record. I have considered the statement of the accused recorded
u/s 313 Cr.P.C. I have also perused the case laws supplied by learned defence
counsel.

2 POINTS FOR CONSIDERATION:-
For the offence U/S 6 of POCSO Act

I. Whether on 25.10.2017, at about 10.30 P.M., at village
Ghilaguri under Basugaon P.S., the accused committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon Miss ‘Xx’ (name is

withheld), niece of the informant?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

8. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record regarding above mentioned point.
aw)

ge
yah SUS
ren Ka 3192"
cries"

9. The victim is the star witness of this case, who was examined
as PW 1. As she stated her age as 10 years for which some questions were
put to her to examine her understanding capacity. It was found that she
understood the value of oath. As her age was above 7 years but below 12
years and it was found that she had sufficient understanding capacity and she
knew the value of oath, for which oath was administered. According to PW 1,
at the time of giving evidence, she was reading in Class-IV in No. 248
Basugaon Town J.B. School. At the time of occurrence, she was reading in
Class-III. Occurrence took place about 5/6 months ago from the date of her
deposition. Initially she was in her school. After closing of class, she came out
and found accused Jahirul Islam, who was standing in front of the gate of the
school along with a bicycle. She knew him and called as brother. The accused
stated her that he was asked by her mother to take her to home. Prior to this
incident, he took her from school in three times. She got up on his bicycle and
after crossing few distance, the accused stopped his bicycle and entered into
jungle area. The victim told him that she would report the matter to her
mother because accused had committed sexual intercourse in previous
occasion. Then accused threatened her and after that he put off her panty
and his long pant. She was lying on the ground and accused committed sexual
intercourse. According to PW 1, accused gagged her. He inserted his penis to
her vagina. Prior to this incident, he had committed sexual intercourse in three
times but she did not state about those incidences to her mother as accused
had threatened her. She stated that there was quarrel prior to the incident.
After committing the offence, the accused again took her on his bicycle and
she was dropped near a shop from where she was going to her home on foot
by weeping. She reported the matter to her mother. Her uncle lodged the FIR
because her father was absent. She stated that she had told all these facts
before the Investigating Officer as well as Magistrate during the time of
investigation. She further deposed that her uniform was seized by police and
she was examined by doctor. She clearly stated that she did not fail in any
Class and she was not tutored by anyone to depose like that way. During
cross-examination, she deposed that after closing of her classes when she
came out, there were several persons on gate. She stated that there were
several persons on road when she was taken by accused on bicycle. Learned
defence counsel pointed out to this witness that before I.0. she did not state
that prior to this incident, accused had committed sexual intercourse with her
for three times but she denied. It is admitted by this witness that a shop
belonged to their family is situated in front of their house and there is another
shop belonged to accused on the other side of the road. The learned defence
counsel further suggested that her family tried to grab the land belonged to
the accused and for which they threatened him time to time but this
Suggestion was also denied by this witness. it was suggested by the learned
defence counsel that accused was sent to the school by grandmother of the
victim and accordingly, accused took her from school and dropped her in her
home but said suggestion was also denied by this witness. The learned
defence counsel suggested that accused did not commit any sexual act but
this suggestion was denied by this witness. It was suggested by the learned
defence counsel that victim was tutored by her family members for which she
stated the alleged incident before the police, Magistrate as well as Court but
she denied. All other suggestions were also denied by this witness.

It is found from the record that statement of victim u/s 164
Cr.P.C was exhibited as Ext.1 in which she stated all these facts before the
Magistrate. Her statement corroborated her later deposition.

10. PW 2 is the mother of the victim. She deposed that occurrence
took place on 25.10.2017 and at that time, the victim was aged about 9 years
and she was reading in Class-III at Basugaon Town J.B. School. At the time of
occurrence, she was in her home. On the date of occurrence, in the morning,
she brought her daughter to her school and keeping her thereon, she returned
to home. The grandmother of the victim went to the school to take her back
but school authority told her that one person had taken the victim prior to her
arrival. Then the grandmother of the victim came to their home and reported
the matter to her. Then they searched victim in different places and found her
on the way near their house. She was weeping and when she asked her about
the reason of weeping, the victim replied that accused Jahirul Islam took her
on his bicycle from the school and went to Garu Bazaar area and entered into
the jungle, put off her panty and committed sexual intercourse with her. Then
her brother-in-law lodged the FIR. The victim was taken to the hospital for
wai SUG
Ce ©"
Spee ak

Cpiraess

examination and she noticed that her wearing apparel was stained with semen
like substance and it was dirty. Police seized the wearing apparel of the victim
by preparing seizure list and she put her signature upon the seizure list. She
exhibited the seizure list as Ext.2 and her signature therein as Ext.2 (1). She
further proved the wearing apparel of the victim as Material Ext.1. Her
daughter further stated that accused had threatened her by saying that if the
matter would be disclosed to anybody, then he would kill her. Prior to this
incident, accused took her daughter from the school three times. During cross,

she deposed that she noticed that blood was oozing from her private parts.

11. PW 3 is the father of the victim. According to this witness, on
the date of occurrence, he was at Guwahati. His wife informed him through
mobile phone that his daughter was missing from the school. Then he
returned to his home and went to Bidyapur Police Out Post and found his
daughter along with his elder brother. On being asked, his daughter told him
that on the date of occurrence accused took her from her school on his bicycle
and on the way he entered nearby jungle and committed sexual intercourse
with her. During investigation, his daughter was medically examined and the
1.0. seized the birth certificate and wearing apparel of the victim and he put
his signature upon the seizure list. He exhibited the birth certificate of the
victim as Material Ext.2. During cross, he deposed that he got information at 2
p.m. and he reached the police station at 7.30 p.m. It was suggested that he
did not ask anything to his daughter and latter also did not reply anything but

this witness denied the same.

12. PW 4 is the uncle of the victim as well as informant of this
case. He deposed that occurrence took place on 25.10.2017 and on that day,
he was returning from his business at about 2.30 p.m. Then he knew from the
mother of the victim that she was bought by accused from her school on
bicycle and on the way, he put off her dress and committed sexual intercourse
with her. At that time, victim was reading in Class-III in Basugaon J.B. School.
When he reached his home, he noticed that victim was weeping. After
knowing the incident, he lodged the FIR before Bidyapur Police Out Post. He
proved the FIR as Ext.3. During cross, he deposed that he brought the victim
to the police station. It was suggested that he did not state before the police
that he heard about the incident from the mother of the victim and he noticed
that victim was weeping but he denied the same. When he saw the victim,
she was under trauma.

EF PW 5 Akbar Ali deposed that on the date of occurrence while
he was working at Bengtol Chariali, one Mohor Ali informed him through
mobile phone that accused Jahirul took his granddaughter, the victim from her
school and on the way, within Basugaon police station area near the railway
track he committed sexual intercourse with the victim after taking her to
nearby jungle. Then he returned to his home and saw that villagers cordoned
the accused Jahirul and he confessed that he had committed sexual
intercourse with the victim and pleaded mercy. He heard the confession made
by the accused before the villagers. After that, villagers advised them to file a
case. Accordingly, FIR was lodged before Bidyapur Police Out Post. He noticed
blood stain on the wearing apparels of the victim. The victim reported him
that she was taken by accused forcefully and he committed sexual
intercourse. During cross, he deposed that he noticed the body of his
granddaughter was covered with mud. It was suggested that he did not state
before the police that he had noticed blood stained wearing apparels of the
victim and same were seized by the police and victim reported him that
accused had committed sexual intercourse with her on her way from school
but he denied the same. He denied the fact that he did not state before the
police that occurrence took place near railway track within jungle under
Basugaon P.S.

14. PW 6 Saheb Ali deposed that occurrence took place on
25.10.2017. On that day, he went to Dhontola market and at about 3.30 PM,
his father Akbar Ali informed him through mobile phone that accused
committed sexual intercourse with the victim. He immediately returned to his
home and found that villagers cordoned the accused in his home and he
confessed his guilt before the villagers. The accused admitted that he had
committed sexual intercourse with the victim when she was taken from the
school. The accused stated that the occurrence was held at Gohat under
Basugaon P.S. He heard the confession made by the accused and at that time,
no one beat the accused. Police was also absent at that time. He noticed the
Cniranrd:

Kajaigao"

victim who was weeping. During cross, it was suggested that he did not state
before the police that after returning home, he saw that accused confessed
his guilt before the villagers and he admitted the fact that he had committed
sexual intercourse with the victim when she was taken from the school and he
further stated that occurrence was held at Gohat within Basugaon P.S., he
heard the confessions made by the accused and at that time no one beat the
accused and police was absent at that time and he noticed the victim who was

weeping but same were denied by this witness.

is PW 7 deposed that on the date of occurrence, at about 3 p.m.,
when he was returning from Guwahati on train and reached Rangia station,
the mother of the victim informed him through mobile phone that accused had
committed sexual intercourse with the victim when she was taken from her
school. He reached his home at 5 p.m. and saw that the villagers gathered in
the house of the accused and accused was sitting and he was cordoned by the
villagers. When he entered the house compound of the accused, the villagers
told him that the accused had already confessed his guilt. Thereafter, he went
to the house of the victim and found that she was weeping. He noticed blood
stain and other stain on the school uniform of the victim. On interrogation,
victim reported him that accused took her after the schoo! hours and did not
come to her house instead he took her to nearby jungle through another way
and committed sexual intercourse with her. During cross, it was suggested
that he did not state before the police that victim reported him that she was
taken by accused from her school after school hours and instead of coming to
their house, he took her to nearby jungle in another way and committed

sexual intercourse with her but he denied the same.

16. PW 8 is the I.0., who deposed that on 02.12.2017, he was
working as SI of Police at Basugaon P.S. On that day, concerned O/C handed
over the case diary of Basugaon P.S. Case No. 99/17 U/S 4 of POCSO Act for
further investigation. After taking the charge of investigation, he visited the
place of occurrence, which is a narrow path within a jungle eastern side of the
Basugaon Railway Station. He collected medical report of the victim, sent the
wearing apparels of the victim to FSL, collected the report from the PSL,

recorded the statement of remaining witnesses, re-examined the victim and
after completion of investigation, he submitted charge-sheet U/S 6 of POCSO
Act against the accused. During the cross-examination, PW 8 confirmed that
PW 7 did not state before him that when he noticed the victim she was
weeping and there was blood stained and other stain on her school uniform.
He further confirmed that PW 7 did not state before him that victim reported
him that she was taken by the accused from her school after school hours and
instead of coming to their house, he took her to nearby jungle in another way

and committed sexual intercourse with her.

17. PW 9 is the Medical Officer, who examined the victim. She
deposed that on 26.10.17, she was working as Medical & Health Officer under
NHM at Bongaigaon Civil Hospital, Bongaigaon. On that day, she examined the
victim in connection with Bongaigaon P.S. Case No. 789/17 U/S 4 of POCSO
Act identified by mother of the victim and escorted by WPC Pramila Kar and
UBC/133 Paresh Ch. Ray. On examination, she found the following:-

She was conscious well oriented.

Teeth — 6/6, 5/6

Secondary sexual character:-

Breast — Enlarged. Nipple and areola are not developed.

Axillary hair and pubic hair — Not developed. She has not
attained puberty.

Local examination:-

Tenderness in the genital area.

Mucous present in and around the introitus.
Hymen — Intact.

Per vagina — Admits tip of one finger.

No external injury seen.
special »

crirars:

ow

yas?
aia\ge™

10

Investigation:-

(1) X-ray for age determination - As per radiological
examination, the age is above 9 years and below 13 years.

(2) Vaginal smear — No spermatozoa seen.
(3) Pregnancy test — Negative.

According to Medical Officer, from the history and findings, it
could not be said if she was raped or not.

During cross, she deposed that she examined the victim within
24 hours from the alleged incident. When she touched the private part, the

victim felt pain for which she mentioned it as tenderness in her report.

18. PW 10 is another I.0. who initially investigated the case. He
deposed that on 25.10.2017, he was serving as I/C at Bidyapur O.P. under
Bongaigaon P.S. On that day, at about 9.20 PM, informant Ennus Ali lodged
an FIR before him alleging that his minor niece was taken by the accused
from her school at Basugaon and on the way he took her to a different road
and committed sexual assault. After getting the FIR, he made Bidyapur O.P.
GDE No. 394 dtd. 25.10.17 and forwarded the FIR to Bongaigaon P.S. He
started investigation and recorded the statement of the complainant.
According to complainant, place of occurrence was fallen under Basugaon P.S.
He recorded the statement of the victim, sent her to Bongaigaon Civil Hospital
for her medical examination and to the Court for recording her statement U/S
164 CrPC, visited the place of occurrence and drew the sketch map of the P.O.
After that he found that the P.O. was fallen under Basugaon P.S. for which he
transferred the FIR and other documents to Basugaon P.S. He seized the
uniform and birth certificate of the victim and arrested the accused. During
cross, he admitted that at the time of examination of the victim, he was
wearing his uniform and the victim stated the fact by weeping. Her parents

were present at the time of recording the statement of the victim.
Speci
gC nirang ’

)

~

F
a\ Judge

Kajaigaon

11

19. PW 11 is the Scientific Officer, Serology Division at Directorate
of Forensic Science, Kahilipara, Guwahati-19. He deposed that on 14.12.2017,
he was working as Scientific Officer, Serology Division at Directorate of
Forensic Science, Kahilipara, Guwahati-19. On that day, he received a parcel
through Director of FSL in connection with Basugaon P.S. Case No. 99/17 u/s
4 of POCSO Act. The parcel sealed cloth covered one carton box consisted of
one exhibit. After opening the parcel, he found one green coloured skirt
contains stain of suspected semen marked as “A” M.R. No. 110/17. His
examination No. Sero-3900/A. After examination, he found that Ext.Sero-
3900/A gave positive test for human semen and negative test for blood. The
question of DNA analysis for comparison is not possible without control
sample. He proved his report as Ext.8 and his signature as Ext.8(1). During
cross, he deposed that no any sample was sent along with Ext.Sero-3900/A or

later on for which he could not compare the exhibit along with sample.

20. DW 1 Sobahan Ali deposed that occurrence took place on
25.10.2017. On that day, while he was in his home, then one Darbesh Ali
informed him over mobile phone that there was quarrel between the accused
and informant and he asked him to reach the place immediately. After half an
hour, another person came to his home and called him to the place of
occurrence. He heard from the villagers gathered at the P.O. that accused had
committed rape upon the victim. Then he proceeded to the house of accused
and found that some persons cordoned him within his compound. He told
them that accused would not be beaten and matter would be placed according
to law. But he does not know whether allegation was true or false. When he
asked the victim, she told him that accused committed rape upon her but he
found her in well state of health. He informed the matter to police. Prior to
this incident, both families used to make quarrel regarding the two shops
belonged to the informant and accused. Police seized the school uniform of
the victim and he put his signature upon the seizure list on next day. During
cross, he admitted that at that time, the age of the victim was about 7/8

years.

21. After going through the entire evidence on record, I have found
that in this case, victim stated that accused had taken her from school on the
Spe
Chirang,

' a

Kajalgaon

12

date of incident and on the way he committed sexual intercourse within the
jungle. This fact was stated by her before the police as well as Magistrate.
Accused also admitted the fact that he took her on the date of incident and
dropped her in front of her house. According to victim, after committing the
offence, accused dropped her near a shop from where she was walking to her
home by weeping. The mother of the victim stated that she found the victim
on the way when latter was coming by weeping. Then she asked her the
reason of weeping, the victim told that accused had committed sexual
intercourse with her on the way. According to mother of the victim (PW 2),
the grandmother of the victim went to the school to take her but school
authority told her that one person had taken the victim from school. After that
they searched but did not find. After sometime, victim was found on the road
when she was coming to her home but she was weeping. Then matter was
revealed. The mother and father deposed that at the time of incident, age of
the victim was 9 years. This fact was also admitted by accused during his
examination under Section 313 CrPC. Birth Certificate of the victim was
exhibited by PW 3, the father of the victim. According to the said Certificate,
date of birth of the victim is 01.07.2007 i.e. her age was 10 years 3 months
24 days. The Birth Certificate was issued on 16.06.2009 which was exhibited
as Material Ext.2. Though Material Exhibit was not proved by examining the
issuing authority, but the age stated by both the parents of the victim as well
as the age mentioned in the Birth Certificate is below 12 years and same was
admitted by the accused. No any question was raised by learned defence
counsel regarding the age. Learned P.P. submitted that age was admitted by
the accused and defence. In this regard, no question was put to the witnesses
by the defence. To ascertain the age of the victim, the most relevant
document is the Matriculation Certificate or the Certificate of the school in
which victim first attended and if this two documents are not found, then only
Birth Certificate is to be considered. In present case, victim was reading in a
school. According to her, she was reading in Basugaon Town J.B. School. The
prosecution did not call any document from the school authority. According to
learned P.P., as Birth Certificate was exhibited for which prosecution did not
call the school authority to prove the age of the victim. It is found from the

entire evidence on record that the age of victim was admitted by the accused
Oy

\
ANE
ig) Judge
Specte » .aigaon
chirang, Kalee®

13

as 9 years. Accused clearly admitted that at the time of occurrence, age of the
victim was 9 years and she was reading in Class-III. Same fact was stated by
the victim as well as her parents. It is settled law that for determining the age
of a person, the best evidence is of his or her parents if it is supported by any
document. In this case, both parents stated that at the time of occurrence,
age of the victim was 9 years and Material Ext.2 also supported that her age
was below 12 years. Accused also admitted the age as 9 years. Admitted fact
need not be proved. So, it is proved from entire evidence on record that at the
time of incidence, age of the victim was below 12 years. Medical evidence also
opined that that her age is above 9 years but below 13 years. Considering the
documentary evidence as well as the evidence from parents, it is crystal clear

that at that time, age of the victim was below 12 years.

22. The learned defence counsel during argument has submitted
that the medical evidence did not corroborate the ocular evidence and version
of the victim. No any injury was found on her private part by the doctor who
examined her. Hymen was also intact. No any external injury was also found.
As medical evidence does not support the ocular evidence, therefore,
according to learned defence counsel, prosecution story is not believable. To
attract penetrative sexual assault insertion of penis to any extent is sufficient
The Medical Officer deposed that during the time of examination, she found
the tenderness on private part of the victim. During cross-examination,
Medical Officer Stated that when she touched her private part the victim felt
pain for which she mentioned it as tenderness in her report. She did not find
any bruise, redness or swelling on her private part. According to doctor, in
case of forceful penetration, there should be some redness, bruise or swelling
on private part. In case of more than one time penetration, hymen could not
be intact. In case of penetration, hymen can be remained intact. Considering
the medical evidence, I have found that hymen was found intact but it does
not mean that there was no penetration. In this regard evidence given by
independent witnesses PW 5, PW 6 and PW 7 are very much essential. PW 5
and PW 6 clearly stated that when they reached the compound of the accused
then he was cordoned by villagers and he confessed his guilt before them.
Both PW 5 and 6 heard that accused confessed that he had committed sexual
intercourse with the victim. The PW 7 also supported this fact. According to
ji a9
7

Wage

\J
Specia! © ega0"

t

Cnirands ¥

‘cap a

14

PW 6, at that time, no one beat the accused and police was absent and he
saw the victim who was weeping. According to PW4 victim was in trauma.
These facts were put before the accused during his examination under Section
313 CrPC. The accused admitted that he had confessed before the villagers as
because the villagers threatened him by showing ‘dao’. According to him, due
to fear he confessed his guilt. On the other hand, PW 5, 6 and 7 has not
stated that anyone showed dao or any other weapon to the accused and
threatened him. The I.0. on the date of occurrence seized the uniform which
contained some stains. According to Forensic Science Laboratory report the
stain is of human semen. Unfortunately, sample semen or blood was not
collected from the accused by the I.0. for which DNA test could not be
performed by Scientific Officer, FSL but it is proved that uniform of the victim
contained stain of semen. According to learned defence counsel, what was
stated by the victim is not believable because she did not state before the I.0.
that accused had committed sexual intercourse for three times prior to the
incident. Except this, no any omission was put forward by the defence during
the cross-examination of the victim. Learned defence counsel though
suggested during cross-examination of PW 6 that he did not state before the
I.0. that accused had confessed his guilt but said fact was not confirmed
through the 1.0. DW 1 also corroborated the prosecution version. According to
him, after knowing the fact that there was quarrel between the accused and
family of the victim, he proceeded to the house of accused and saw that
accused was cordoned by villagers. He heard that accused had committed
rape upon the victim. Then he informed the matter to police. So, it is revealed
from the evidence of the DW 1 that prior to the arrival of police accused was
cordoned by villagers and in front of the villagers, accused confessed his guilt
that he had committed sexual intercourse with the victim. The accused
admitted the fact that he took the victim from the school and he used to take
her from school in several times. It is also revealed that he was well known to
the victim. Learned defence counsel though suggested that there was enmity
between both the families and family of victim tried to grab the land belonged
to the accused, but these facts were not proved. No any witness admitted this
fact. Victim deposed that there was quarrel but it does not mean that accused

was tried to evict by the family members of the victim. If there was any such
15

enmity, then accused was not allowed to bring the victim from her school. A
reasonable person does not believe the fact that one allows his enemy to take
his or her minor girl from her school. In present case at hand, it is revealed
that accused took the victim at the relevant time from the school and he also
stated that he confessed his guilt. He has shown the reason of his confession
that villagers threatened him but no such type of threat is proved from entire

evidence on record.

23 Regarding enmity and discrepancies/contradictions, learned

defence counsel has submitted the following case laws:-

(1) (2019)1GLT17
(Sri Abhijit Dutta v. State of Assam and Others)

24. In said case, our Hon’ble High Court held as follows:-

“Evidently, in her statement u/s 164 she stated about one
incident but no indication of sexual intercourse as stated in course of

trial, She developed her case in course of trial when she stated that

By

\ \ she was subjected to sexual intercourse for several days, which is
\
| judge totally inconsistent with her earlier statement. Here is the difficulty to
jal YUN as
Sper Kaiaigeo” accept the testimony of the victim.”

cnirars:

25. In said case, our Hon'ble High Court further held as follows:-

"18. In 2008 (10) SCC 69, Lalli Ram v. State of M.P., it is

held as follows:

"It is true that injury is not a sine qua non for deciding
whether rape has been committed. But it has to be decided on
the factual matrix of each case. As observed by this court in
Pratap Mishra and others vs. State of Orissa (1977 3
SCC 41), where the allegation of rape by many persons and
several times but no injury is noticed that certainly is an

important factor. If the prosecutrix version is credible, no
Age
sa\ jes

16

corroboration is necessary. But if the prosecutrix version is not
credible then there would be need for corroboration,”

19. As discussed above, the evidence of the victim does not
find support from the medical evidence and it is inconsistent on

material aspects and hence unreliable.

BI scxceameuanissscigterenm suurnemtenenmmnenirnills tadexpenveenaxnrsuneurs seeuaecsenaee The
omission which amounts to contradiction in material Particulars
/.€. go to the root of the case/materially affect the trial or core
of the prosecution case render the testimony of witness liable
to be discredited.

EAE sera am blclemn reer nemce vars eaves ecnacremmems wereentsencos Although
@ victim of sexual assault, particularly when she is a minor
cannot be discarded because such minor child has no such
hostility of her own towards an accused for false implication,
but the same is equally true that such minor child also can be
tutored by their guardian for their own purpose. In the given
case where there is a background of quarrel between the
informant and the landlady where the informant and the
accused stayed and the informant was asked to vacate the
tenanted premises, vested interest on the part of informant for

false implication cannot be denied.

le st iwnncemangmnnnnon rereenuxvessseaatesste siden) bey aangennenenesannasecncssecueeusaneen The
material witness i.e. father of the victim and the neighboring
witnesses were not examined and as it reflects that the learned
trial court did not evaluate the evidence of the child
witness/victim in the given background and by giving a prima
facie value of the testimony of the victim before the court
without appreciating the entire episode in the context of law
and fact as discussed above, came to an erroneous finding

which is not sustainable. ”
AA wf)

spoon
crirand

wr

aie:
\yjO atl
mu,
tainay'
AS

17

26. I have gone through it. In the said case, victim was mum for a
long period and she did not state some facts before the Magistrate as well as
police. Material witness was also not examined. In present case at hand;
victim immediately reported the incidence to her mother. Moreover, accused
also admitted the prosecution story to some extent. Defence witness also
admitted the prosecution story to some extent. Age stated by the parents of
the victim was also admitted by the accused. Accused admitted that he had
confessed his guilt before villagers due to fear. Therefore, in my view, cited
case is not similar with that of the present case at hand.

ees Learned defence counsel has further submitted that the
presumption mentioned under Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act is not absolute
presumption. This is rebuttable presumption. In this regard, he submitted the
following case law:-

(1) Criminal Appeal No. 579/2017
(Ramprasad v. State of Maharashtra)

28. In the said case, Hon’ble Bombay High Court held as follows:

"18. Once such a conclusion is arrived at, the presumption
under Section 29 of the POCSO Act comes into operation and it
has to be presumed that the acts alleged against the appellant
(accused) were indeed committed by him until the contrary
stood proved. Therefore, the burden becomes heavier on the
defence in such cases. It is required to be examined whether
the evidence on record indicated that the appellant (accused)
was able to rebut the presumption to demonstrate that the
prosecution case was not made out. The presumption can be
rebutted by showing that on preponderance of probabilities the

defence raised by the accused was made out.
19. Section 29 of POCSO Act reads as follows:-

"29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is

prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit
18

any offence under Sections 3, 5, 7 and Section 9 of this Act,
the Special Court shall presume, that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as

the case may be unless the contrary is proved.”

The above quoted provision mandates that unless the accused
proves to the contrary, it would be presumed that he has
committed offences under the POCSO Act for which he is
prosecuted. But, there can be no doubt about the proposition
that no presumption is absolute and that every presumption is
rebuttable. A statutory presumption of this nature can be
rebutted by the accused on the touchstone of preponderance of
probabilities. In the case of Babu Versus State of Kerala
[(2010) 9 SCC 189], the Honble Supreme Court, while
examining as to in what manner presumption under a statute

could operate against the accused has held as follows:-

20. In a recent judgment also, in the face of presumption under
Section 29 of the POCSO Act, this Court in Amol Dudhram
Barsagade Versus State of Maharashtra, [Criminal Appeal No.
600/2017 Decided on 23.04.2018] (Nagpur Bench), held as

follows: -
I SAGER SP. a Ae cv Aa The
! submission that the statutory presumption under Section 29 of
y dae the POCSO Act is absolute, must be rejected, if the suggestion
special 900" is that even if foundational facts are not established, the
CHIraae prosecution can invoke the statutory presumption. Such an

interpretation of Section 29 of the POCSO Act would render the
said provision vulnerable to the vice of unconstitutionality. The
statutory presumption would stand activated only if the
prosecution proved the foundational facts, and then, even if the
statutory presumption is activated, the burden on the accused
is not to rebut the presumption beyond reasonable doubt.
Suffice it if the accused is in a position to create 2 serious
¢
special Judas
Chirang, 64)

29.

30.

31

jalgaon 7”

19

doubt about the veracity of the prosecution case or the accused
brings on record material to render the prosecution version

highly improbable.”
I have gone through it.
The Sections 29 and 30 POCSO Act runs as follows:-

"29. Presumption as to certain offences.— Where a
person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting
to commit any offence under sections 3, 5, 7 and section 9 of
this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as

the case may be unless the contrary is proved.

30. Presumption of culpable mental state. — (1) In any
prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a
culpable mental state on the part of the accused, the Special
Court shall presume that existence of such mental state but it
Shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had
no such metal state with respect to the act charged as an

offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be
proved only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond
reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is

established by a preponderance of probability.”

After going through both the Sections, I have found that

Section 29 discuses the presumption regarding commission of offence and

Section 30 relates to presumption of culpable mental state. Both presumptions

are rebuttable presumptions but this rebuttable fact must be proved by the

defence through cogent evidence. In present case at hand, evidence given by

defence side is not sufficient to prove the rebuttal fact that there was enmity

between the families and for which this false case was filed. The prosecution

evidence also did not support any rebuttal evidence pointed out by learned
spect
Chirand:

a\ Judd
Kaja'd

ge
\ 300)

20

defence counsel during the time of cross-examination of prosecution
witnesses. Regarding Section 30, accused has not proved the fact that he had
no such mental state with respect of the act charged as an offence. Sub-
section 2 of Section 30 clearly states that for the purposes of this section a
fact is said to be proved only when the Special Court believes it to exist
beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established by
a preponderance of probability. So, the existence of criminal mental state can
be rebutted by some facts which should be proved beyond all reasonable
doubt. By giving evidence in the standard of preponderance of probabilities, is
not sufficient to rebut the presumption given under Section 30 of POCSO Act.
In present case at hand, accused admitted the fact narrated by victim
regarding her age as well as part of incidence. In this case, the independent
witnesses also supported the fact stated by victim. Accused also admitted that
he had confessed before the villagers. According to him, confession was made
due to fear but said fact was not proved by the defence through cogent
evidence. So, ‘fear for giving confession’ was not proved beyond all
reasonable doubt. DW 1 also failed to rebut the prosecution version through
his evidence. As a result, the prosecution story is established against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubt. It is proved from the entire evidence on
record that at the time of occurrence, age of the victim was below 12 years. It
is further proved that at relevant point of time, accused had committed
penetrative sexual assault upon the victim. So, the ingredient of Section 5(m)
of POCSO Act is proved. So, case is established under Section 6 of POCSO Act.
The point is proved against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. Accused
is found guilty under Section 6 of POCSO Act.

ORDER

32. Prosecution proved the case U/S 6 of POCSO Act against
accused Md. Jahirul Islam beyond all reasonable doubt. Accused is convicted
under Section 6 of POCSO Act.

33. Sentence will be pronounced on next date after hearing the
accused and his engaged counsel on point of sentence.

 
21

34. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 21* day
of December, 2019, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

oe bye yor’ Nohasla

J. Mahanta) 2\ aI

j n
Dictated and corrected by me, oy ABs

de) a9

(D.J. Mahanta)

He
Chira ; algaon

KK KK
22

APPENDIX
Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Victim Miss ‘xX’ (name is withheld)
PW 2 — Mustt. Ful Bibi

PW 3 — Md. Jinnat Ali

PW 4 - Informant Md. Ennus Ali

PW 5 — Md. Akbar Ali

PW 6 — Md. Sabed Ali

PW 7 — Md. Abu Sama Ali

PW 8 -S.I. Nobin Boro (I.0.)

PW 9 — Dr. Ranjeeta Das (M.O.)

PW 10 - S.I. Ajay Kr. Saha (1.0.)

PW 11 - Shri Sankar Ch. Rabha (Scientific Officer, FSL)

Exhibit (Prosecution):

Ext-1 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

Ext-2 Seizure list

Ext-3 FIR

Ext-4 Charge-sheet

Ext-5 Medical report

Ext-6 Sketch map

Ext-7 Extract copy of Bidyapur O.P. GD Entry No. 394 dated 25.10.2017
Ext-8 FSL Report

ibit (P ion):

Material Ext.1 Wearing apparel of victim
Material Ext.2 Birth certificate of the victim

Defence Witness:
DW 1 — Md. Sobahan Ali
Defence Exhibit:

Nil

bar”)
(D.J. Mahanta)

Si FUG 2
Chi : algaon
