IN THE COURT OF DISTRICT & SESSIONS JUDGE: CACHAR; SILCHAR
SPL. POCSO CASE NO .25 of 2015
(U/S 366 IPC. & U.S. 4 of POCSO Act. 2012)

Present:-Shri K. Choudhury, LL.M.,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM ......c.ccceceseeecceeccseeaesseeeescseeeesssseeeessssesaeaes Complainant.

Ali Hussain,

S/O- Fakar Ali

Bairabpur Part V

P.S. Katigorah, Cachat...........ccccsscccecessssssseeeeeeesssseeeteaessssessees Accused

Charge framed ON tm.......ccccccccccsseceecesseeeeeseseseeeesestseeesessteeeeees 28.03.2016

P.Ws. examinedon:- 27.05.16; 27.06.16; 01.08.16;
28.02.17; 08.09.17;26.05.17; 03.11.17

Statement of accused recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C :- 10.11.17.
Argument heard ON)1..........cccccccccccsssssseeccessteesssseeeeeesseneaeeaaeeaes 29.11.17

Judgment pronounced and delivered ON? ..........ccceseeecceeeee eens 30.11.17.
Learned Counsel Appeared

For the State: -.......ccccceeecceeeeeeeeees Mr.R. M. DasS,.........0008 Ld. P. P.

For the ACCUSEC!-...........ccccceeeeeeeeees Mr. N. N. Thakur..Learned Advocate.
JUDGMENT

1. In the instant case, the FIR was lodged on

06.08.2014 to the effect that on 05.08.2014 at late mid-night accused
kidnapped the minor daughter of the complainant and on the following

morning at about 5 a.m. the complainant was informed that his victim
daughter was kept in the house of the accused. Thereafter, FIR was
lodged and the same was registered as Katigorah P.S. Case No. 298/14,
U/S 366 (A) I.P.C.

2. During investigation the statement of the victim got
recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. and she was also got medically examined. The
doctor opined her age as above 14 years and below 16 years. On
completion of the investigation IO submitted charge sheet against the
accused U/S 366/344 IPC R/W Section of 4 POCSO Act,

3. Learned Addl.C.J.M. Cachar, Silchar after procuring the
attendance of the accused furnished copies of all relevant documents
and committed the offence. This Court after hearing both sides, and
consideration of materials on record framed formal charges against
the accused U/S 366 IPC & under Sec.4 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences (POCSO)Act 2012. The charges were read over and
explained to the accused to which the accused pleaded not guilty.

Hence trial began.

4. To prove the case prosecution examined six witnesses
including the victim. Defence plea is that at the material time the
victim was a major and she at her own will went out on that night
with knowledge of her mother with the accused on the ground that
her marriage was settled elsewhere against her opinion. The accused
during examination U/S 313 Cr.P.C. also has taken the similar plea and

expressed his willingness to marry the victim and pleaded as innocent.

5: Now, point for decision is as to whether, under the facts
and circumstances of the case, the accused kidnapped the victim girl
and committed any offence of penetrative sexual assault as charged
U/S 366 IPC and Sec 4 of POCSO Act respectively.

6. To decide the above I have heard learned counsel of both
sides at length and perused the entire evidence on the record.

Findings, decision and reasons thereof are given below:

7. P.W.-1: Sibaz Uddin, the father of the victim deposed that
about 2 years back on one night hearing alarm of the victim he woke
and went out along with his another son and wife but did not find the
victim. On the following morning at about 7 a.m. he was informed by
one Alkas Uddin that his daughter was taken in the house of the
accused and the accused wanted to marry her. Hence the FIR was
lodged. When the victim was given in his custody, it was reported to
him that on the night of alleged incident when she came out in
response to her nature’s call, the accused and one Baharuddin forcibly

lifted her to the house of the accused.

8. P.W.-2 Ashuk Uddin deposed that on that of night of
alleged occurrence hearing alarm of the victim, he woke and went out
along with his mother and father but did not find the victim. On the
following morning they were informed that the victim was taken to the
house of the accused for marriage purpose. After 11-12 days the victim
was recovered by police. When the victim was handed over to his
father, on query, it was reported that she forcibly taken by accused Ali

Hussain and one Kamal and others. The victim reported to him that the
accused tortured the victim and she was further threatened and asked

to marry her.

9. P.W.3,Hukmot Ali deposed that at the relevant time he
was informed by the complainant that on the previous night accused

forcibly took away the victim. After few days the victim was recovered.

10. P.W.4, the victim of this case deposed that on the date of
alleged occurrence at about 10/11 p.m. when she came out to attend
the call of nature, on the way the accused along with 3 others gagging
her mouth forcibly took her to his house. She refused the marriage
proposal of the accused. The accused and others took her to Bihara,
from there she was taken to Borkhola and then she was taken to
Lailapur. During her stay in the house of the accused the accused had
sexual intercourse with her.

In her cross examination she stated to the police that her age was 18
years and she had love affairs with the accused Ali Hussain who was
known to her family and she wanted to get married with him and her
parents settled the marriage and assaulted her and for that she over
telephone informed the matter to the accused and on 05.08.14 in the
night she went herself to the house of the accused which her mother
saw but did not prevent. She also stated before the police that on the
following morning when they came to know that her father lodged
complaint, they both went to Bihara wherefrom police recovered them

and brought them to Kalain P.S.

11. P.W-5 Dr. Orina Raha deposed that on 19.08.2014 on

police requisition she examined the victim. She opined that the age of
the victim girl was above 14 years and below 16 years; no signs of
sexual intercourse were detected nor any injury detected on her body

or genitals.

12. P.W. 6 P. Jatindra Singh deposed that on 06.08.14 he was
posted at Katigorah P.S. and I.C. of the P.S. Kajal Kumar Dey entrusted
him to investigate the case. During investigation, he visited the P.O.
recorded the statement of witnesses. On 19.08.14 both the accused
and the victim appeared before the police of Kalain P.P. Accused was
forwarded to the Court. The victim was got medically examined and
was also produced before the Magistrate for recording her statement
U/S 164 Cr.P.C. He collected the medical report and also her statement.
Before that he also examined her. On completion of the investigation he
submitted charge sheet.

In his cross examination he confirmed the omission as brought in the
cross examination of P.Ws to the effect that P.W. 1Sibaj Uddin did not
state before him that hearing alarm of the victim he woke and did not
find the victim. P.W. 1 also did not state before him that he received
information from one Alkas Uddin about the victim and the accused
wanted to marry her. P.W. 2 Ashuk Uddin did not state before him that
victim reported to him (P.W. 2) that accused tortured the victim and

she was threatened and asked to marry her.

13. Exhibit-4 is the statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. of the
victim where she disclosed her age as 18 years. She also disclosed that

she had love affairs with the accused for which her parents having
-6-

intention to give her marriage elsewhere assaulted her. It is also stated
that her parents settled her marriage elsewhere against her will and
thereafter she made a telephonic call to the accused and on 5.8.14 at
11 ‘O” clock night she on her own went out and the same was seen by
her mother. Learned defence counsel on this point strongly argued that
the above contradiction falsify the evidence that the accused along with
three others forcibly gagging her mouth took away the victim. On the
point of the age of the victim, contention of the learned defence
counsel is that in the absence of any cogent evidence, under the facts
and circumstances of this case, doctor’s opinion cannot be totally relied
upon. It is further submitted that during the pendency of this case,
marriage between the accused and the victim has been settled and the
same goes to show that whatever has been stated before the
Magistrate about the love affairs and her going out at her own will only
to get married with the accused might be true and subsequently at the
instance of her father who was previously against the marriage adduced
evidence deviating from her earlier statement and other inmates of her
house accordingly deposed. It is not convincing enough that in
presence of the inmates of the house, the victim could be forcibly taken

away by the accused and accompanied by others.

14. In view of the above discussions and consideration of
entire evidence on record it is held that prosecution case is not proved
beyond all reasonable doubt both U/S 366 I.P.C. & U/S 4 of POCSO
Act or whatsoever. Accused is thus acquitted and set at liberty
forthwith.

15; Bail bond stands discharged.
Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court under my

signature and seal of this court on this 30th day of November, 2017.

Dictated & Corrected by me

(Shri K. Choudhury), (Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge. Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by D. Paul, Stenographer -III
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR

SPL POCSO Case No. 25 of 2015
APPENDIX

 

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

PW. 1 — Sibaz Uddin.
PW. 2 — Ashuk Uddin
PW. 3 — Hukmot Ali

P.W. 4 — Ruksana Begum
PW. 5 — Dr. Orina Raha
P.W. 6 — P. Jatindra Singh

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.1 — FIR

Ext.1(1) — Signature of P.W.-1

Ex. 1(2) — Signature of Kajol Kr. Dey
Ex. 1(3) & 1 (4) — Signature of S.K. Dey.

Ext. 2 — Medical Report

Ex. 2(1) — Signature of Ruksana Begum
Ex. 2(2) — Signature of guardian of Ruksana Begum
Ex. 2(3) 7 2(4) — Signature of P.W. 5.

Ex. 2(5) — Signature of Dr G. Das.

Ext.3 — Police requisition.

Ext. 3(1) — Signature of P.W.-5

Ext. 4 — Statement of P.W. 4.

Ext. 4(1) to 4(4) = — Signature of P.W.-4
Ext. 5 — Sketch map

Ext. 5(1) — Signature of P.W. 6.
Ext. 6 — Charge-sheet
Ext. 6(1) — Signature of P.W.-6.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

(Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

XXXXXXXXX
