IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR AT SILCHAR.

 

Present :- Sri K. Choudhury,
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

Spl. (POCSO) Case No: 12/2015.
Under Section 366 I.P.C. and U/S. 4 of POCSO Act.

State Of ASSAIMN........ceccee ee eee ence enna esaeeeaeesa esse eeae saa esssssseeeeess Complainant.
-V/s-

1. Md. Rabul Hussain Laskar,
son of Lt. Monir Uddin Laskar,
village-Dayapur,
P.S. Udharbond.

2. Md. Ikbal Hussain Barbhuiya @ Manabba,

Son of Motosin Ali Barbhuiya,

Village — Nutan Dayapur,

P.S. UGNArDON........ccecceccecsseeecceccceeeceeeeseeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeees Accused persons.

Charge framed on :- 10.09.2015.

Dates of recording evidence :- 09.10.15, 15.10.15, 20.11.15, 29.01.16
and 24.02.16

Statement of the accused persons recorded on :- 24.02.16.

Argument heard on 22.03.2016.
Judgment delivered on : 31.03.2016.
ADVOCATE APPEARED

For the prosecution :- Mr. D. Dutta, learned P.P.

For the defence :- Mr. P. Deb.
JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 18.07.2015 at about
4 p.m. the minor daughter of the complainant herein below mentioned
as victim, went out following tea garden road for purchasing of a Urna
(a piece of cloth used by female to cover upper portion of body). On the
way the accused persons forcibly took her towards Kashipur by their
Cruiser vehicle. After that at about 10 p.m. they left her at Kashipur tea
garden. She after returning home informed that the accused persons
kidnapped her and forcibly committed rape on her and also snatched
away her gold necklace and ear-rings. Accordingly FIR was lodged. The
same was registered as Udarbond Police Station (P/S) case No. 177/15
U/S 342 IPC read with Section 6 of the Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012.

2. During investigation the accused were arrested. The victim
was medically examined and her statements were recorded u/s 164 by
judicial magistrate. Doctor opined her age as above 14 and below 16
years. On completion of the investigation the Investigating Officer (1.0)
submitted Charge Sheet against both the accused u/s 366/342 IPC read
section 6 of the POCSO Act 2012.

3. On production of the accused persons copies of all necessary
police papers as referred u/s 173 (2) Cr.PC were furnished to them.
Thereafter hearing both side and considering materials on the record this
court framed formal charges u/ 366 /34 IPC and u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.
The charges were read over and explained to which the accused pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence trial began.

4. In support of the case the prosecution examined as many as
eight witnesses as PW. The defence pleas are of total denials. During
examination of accused u/s 313 CrPC it is stated that there was a
marriage proposal for marriage of the victim with accused Rabul Hussain
and same being refused by the accused and his inmates the accused was
falsely implicated, and the other accused being his friend was also
similarly implicated. No evidence is however adduced in their defence.

5: Now, under the facts and circumstances of this case,
whether the accused persons committed any offence of kidnapping and
penetrative sexual assault as charged?

6. To decide the above I have heard argument of both side at
very length and perused the entire evidence on the record. My findings
and decision with reasons thereof are given below:-

7. PW. 3 — Najira Begum Laskar, the victim of this case has
deposed that accused Rabul is her adjacent neighbour. On 18-07-15
she taking one hundred rupees from her mother went out for purchasing
Urna following tea garden road. While she was so walking suddenly a
Cruiser vehicle coming from back side stopped. Accused persons getting
down from the vehicle pulled her and forcibly get her into the vehicle
and took her inside the Kashipur tea garden. They forcibly administered
tablets by mixing in Cold drinks. She felt drowsiness. Accused Rabul then
committed rape on her. On her regaining sense at about 10 p.m. she
found both the accused persons near to her. The accused took her and
left her near Nachghar. Her cousin Jamrul and Bebul found her with torn
clothes. They informed her father, who then along with others came and
took her back. She reported the entire incident to her parents and
others. Her father wrote the ejahar and on that very night took her to
Udarbond P.S. On the following day police took her to S.M.C.H., where
she was medically examined. The Magistrate recorded her statement.
Ext-2 is her statement. She also gave statement before the Doctor. Ext-3
is the medical report. Ext-3(1) is her signature.

8. In her cross-examination, she gave topography of the place
where from she was taken. According to her it is a tri junction connected
by National high way and is a busy area. Near the Nachghar, there are
two sub-ways. Market sets near the Nachghar where there were 4-5
permanent shops. She further stated that there was a gate of the garden
situated at a distance of 100 meter from the Nachghar. The garden gate
remains open up to 10.p.m. She did not notice any home stead around
the Nachghar. Her panty was stained with blood. She handed over the
panty to the Police. Her lips were swelling with some crack and there
was no other external injury. She denied all the defence suggestions that
the doctor did not find any injury, she did not hand over under garment
to the police and she adduced false evidence.

9. PW. 1 — Altar Hussain Laskar, father of the victim who
deposed that accused persons are driver of cruiser vehicle by
occupation. Accused Rabul Hussain is his closed door neighbour. On 18-
07-15 on the occasion of the Idd of Ramjan month, the victim went out
for purchasing urna from a shop and on the way to tea garden road
accused persons coming from back side forcibly caught her and pulled
her into their cruiser vehicle. They took her inside the Kashipur tea
garden and forcibly administered drugs and after that accused Rabul
Hussain committed rape on her. He further deposed that for non-
returning of the victim he and others started to search out her and
during the search his neighbour namely, Badrul and Jamrul found the
victim wearing torn apparels near Nachghar of the tea garden. Then they
over telephone informed him about the victim. After that he along with
others went there and brought the victim back. On query the victim
narrated the aforesaid incident as deposed. On that night he lodged the
ejahar. The victim was with him. Both of them remained in the P.S. on
that night. On the following morning the victim was sent for medical
examination and was also produced before Magistrate. Ext-1 is his FIR.
He also adduced evidence relating to the age of the victim. According to
him she was 14 years.

10. PW. 2 — Josim Uddin deposed that on 18-07-15 at about
10.00 p.m. hearing hue and cry he went to the house of the victim, who
was found crying and wearing torn clothes. On query she reported that
on that day while she was going to purchase an Urna, on the way of tea
garden road accused persons forcibly took her in a vehicle to lonely
plantation area named as Bogdhai where the accused persons
administered her some drugs mixing with cold drinks and committed
rape on her. She further reported that accused persons after committing
rape took her near Nachghar and left her. She was recovered by Jamrul
and Babul during search. He denied in his cross-examination that he
being tutored by the informant deposed falsely.

11. PW. 4— Jamrul Hussain deposed that on the date of the Idd
festival after Ramjan at about 7.00 p.m. the father of the victim called
him and informed that the victim could not be traced out even after
search. After that he along with three friends with his cruiser vehicle
proceeded towards Kashipur tea garden in search of the victim, and
while they reached near the turning point of the tea garden happened to
see the victim coming alone on foot. He then informed the parents of the
victim over phone. Then father of the victim along with 2-3 persons
came there and brought back the victim. The victim reported that on
that evening while she came out for purchasing Urna two boys took her
by a vehicle. He denied in his cross-examination that he being tutored
adduced false evidence.

12. PW. 5 — Badrul Ali Laskar corroborating the evidence of
P.W.4 deposed that he along with P.W.4 and others while went out for
searching of the victim with a Cruiser vehicle found the victim near the
Nachghar coming alone on foot. Father of the victim was informed and
who along with 7-8 persons came there and took the victim. He further
deposed that on query the victim disclosed that accused persons forcibly
took her at about 4.00 p.m. from near the pharmacy in a vehicle and
tried to commit rape on her inside tea garden near Baghdai, a narrow
Space in between two hillocks of plantation area. He in his cross-
examination gave topography of the area from where the victim was
allegedly taken away. According to him the said pharmacy is of one
Anowar doctor whose house is situated on the back side of the
pharmacy. He further stated that in the N.H. road everyday around
200/250 cruiser vehicles used to ply and in total thousands vehicles used
to ply. He further deposed that near the Kashipur tri-junction and the
National High way there are two mosques which are situated about 20
meters from the pharmacy in to different directions. Normally one hour
prior to the prayer of namaj people started to gether in the mosque.
Namaj of Asar starts in between 3-50-4.00 p.m. and the villagers of the
locality attend the mosque during the prayer using the said road. He
denied that no such occurrence took place.

13. PW. 6 — Sutapa Bhusan is the Magistrate deposed to have
recorded the statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C. She in the cross-
examination proved some omissions as brought in the cross-examination
of P.W.3, the victim.

14. PW. 7 — Dr. Orina Raha deposed that on 19-07-15 the victim
was examined by her at S.M.C.H. During examination the victim girl
narrated to her that Rabul Hussain Laskar, the cousin of the victim and
his friend namely Mounbba picked her forcibly from the market place
near a house on 18-07-15. She was then taken to nearby tea garden at
about 4.00 p.m. She kept revolting but they forcibly gave her tablets
following which she became unconscious. When she woke up found no
clothes on her body. She came back home alone. It is further deposed
that her paternal aunt also gave same history. The main findings of the
Doctor are that, there was no bodily injury, there were no suspected
stains, in the hymen slight tenderness was found present, and no tear
was present in the vagina. X-ray of all major joints was done. It is opined
that the age of the victim was above 14 years and below 16 years. No
evidence of recent sexual inter course was detected. No evidence of
injury on the body or genitals was detected. Ext-3 is her report.

In the cross-examination it is stated that the tenderness as
noticed in the hymen of the victim might also be caused by rubbing,
etching and also by penetration by any type of fingering including self-
fingering. She denied the suggestion that no history as deposed above
was narrated either by the victim or by the victim’s aunt.

15. PW. 8 — Binoy Nath (1.0). According to his evidence, he was
entrusted to investigate the case. During the investigation he recorded
the statements of the victim and other witnesses, visited the P.O. drew
the sketch map of the P.O., sent the victim for medical examination, and
got her statement recorded U/S 164 of Cr.P.C. He further deposed that
at about 1-15 a.m. of 19-07-15 at the time of lodging FIR the victim was
brought to the P.S. by her father. He collected one school certificate of
the victim. Ext-6 which is the certificate exhibited under objection. On
completion of investigation he submitted charge sheet. He disclosed that
the P.O. is the Silchar Jiribam road where from the victim was allegedly
taken away which is near a tri-junction from where one road proceeds
towards Kashipur tea estate. He confirmed some omissions to the effect
that P.W.1 did not state about administering any drugs/tablets to the
victim, about search of the victim, about receiving information about the
victim from Baharul and Jamrul, and that he went to Nachghar to take
the victim back.

16. From the discussion of evidence, it transpires that evidence are by
and large corroborative with regard to the alleged taking away of the
victim by the accused from near the tri-junction of National Highway and
Kashipur Tea garden road. As reported witness all the non-official
witnesses supported the testimonies of the victim. Recovery of the victim
by P.W. 4 & 5 from near the Nachghar of the Kashipur tea garden is also
corroborative with each other and also with the other material witnesses.
History as recorded by the M.O., the P.W.7, also supports the prosecution
allegation. Except some omissions no contradiction could be proved in
the evidence of I.O. There is no cross-examination on the point of age of
the victim. Evidence with regard to the age of the victim is therefore
remained unrebutted. Evidence shows that the victim was below sixteen
years of age at the material time, and she was a student of class-ix and
there is no dispute about it.

17. During argument, learned P.P. has strongly contended that
even Court can arrived at a decision only relying upon the testimony of
the victim and here in the instance case both direct evidence of the
victim and the circumstantial evidence with regard to the recovery
strongly proves the involvement of the accused with the alleged offence
and there is no ground to disbelieve the testimony of the victim and
other material witnesses. On the contrary, the learned defence counsel
contended that the prosecution case is based on totally false and
concocted story. It is also contended that the alleged taking of the girl in
the afternoon from near a tri junction is very improbable, in as much as
in the cross-examination it has come out that there are two mosques at
some distance at different direction from the P.O., and there are some
shops and houses of others near the alleged P.O. Further contention is
that, in the evidence it has come out that the National High way
connected by Kashipur road is a busy road and therefore evidence of
taking away cannot be relied upon. Similarly it is not reliable that a girl of
a tailor i.e. the victim would go out for purchasing any Urna. AS regards
medical evidence contention of the learned defence counsel is that,
except some tenderness there is nothing found on the person of the
victim to support the allegation of rape. In this regard it is further
submitted that the tenderness as found by the M.O. as disclosed in the
evidence may be caused by any other means including self-fingering and
thus this only cannot be used as proof of rape in the absence of any
other findings suggesting the commission of rape. Learned P.P. on this
point has argued that generally no girl of adolescence, not to speak of
their parents, would adduce false evidence jeopardizing her future.
18. In support of the rival contentions both sides submitted some
decisions. The defence side submitted the following decisions
highlighting the relevant observation

1. 2012 CRI L.J. (NOC) 35 (H.P) Surendra Singh,J. Kishan Chand V.
State of H.P. Cr Appeal No. 388 of 2010, D/-2-6-2011(A) Penal code (45
of 1860)S. 376 —Rape-Burden of proof-Onus is always upon prosecutrix
to prove affirmatively each ingredients of offence it seeks to establish
and such onus never shifts.

Penal Code (45 of 1860)S, 376-Rape- proof- Allegations that
accused caught hold of prosecutrix and took her to his house, bolted
door of room from inside and committed rape on her - Prosecutrix on
date of alleged incident was 16 years of age i.e age of discretion -
Although prosecutrix met many persons on way while she was being
taken to place of incident as alleged, but did not raise any hue and cry
nor made any complaint to any of them on way - Circumstances,
showing that prosecutrix and accused had incest relationship between
them - Allegation of rape as pronounced by prosecutrix has also not
made out from testimony of doctor - Testimony of prosecutrix does not
inspire confidence.

(2) 1972 CRI.L.J. 1286 (V.78 C 331) (SUPREME COURT)
Evidence Act (1872). Section 3-Criminal cases-Credibility of witnesses-
Degree of proof- (X Ref: s.114)

The degree which proof must reach before a Court trying a
criminal case will convict is no doubt that which a prudent man will
employ in reaching a conclusion beyond reasonable doubt whereas an
accused need not prove his case to the same extent in order to succeed.
But, the standards employed in judging each version are those of a
reasonable and prudent man. Such a man can only adopt what is natural

to expect and what accords with common sense and ordinary experience
but not what is extraordinary and unexpected as a reliable test of
credibility of witnesses. The assumption that truth is stranger than fiction
cannot be invoked in appraising the evidence of such person because it
would be hazardous to do so and would introduce an illegal criterion for

appraising the evidence.

(3) (2012)5 Gauhati Law Reports 605
Agartala Bench.
.R. Sarma.J.
Shankar Biswas—Appellant -Vs- State of Tripura-Respondent
It is settled law that in the event of existence of two
views i.e. one going in favour of the prosecution and other going in
favour of the accused, the benefit should go in favour of the accused

person.

19. Prosecution side relied on the following decisions. Highlighted
observations are given below :
(i) 2016 CRILL.J. 324 (Gujrat High Court)

It is not sine qua non to prove charge of rape - Specific statement
of prosecutrix that accused dragged her to bushes and forcibly
committed rape - She initially did offer resistance with her school bag-
Subsequently she may have been overpowered to offer any resistance
and thus may not have received any injury - Defence of consent of
victim not tenable merely on ground of absence of injury especially
when doctor while giving history not suggested about consent.

(ii) 2016 CRILL.J. 608 (Himachal Pradesh High Court) Jai Singh -vs-
State of H.P.

Medical examiner having portrayed in deposition qua
occurrence of penetration of penis into private parts of victim - Mere
factum of hymen of prosecutrix having remained un-ruptured would not
make testimony of prosecutrix false.
(ili) 2012 CRI. L.J. 693 (Supreme Court) Criminal Appeal No.
1516 with 1517 of 2010, D/- 10-10-2011. Mohd Imran Khan V. State
(Govt of NCT of Delhi).

Penal Code (45 of 1860), S.376- Evidence Act (1 of 1872),
S.3-Rape- Evidence of  Prosecutrix-Corroboration-not necessary-
Prosecutrix evidence need not be tested with same amount of suspicion
as that of accomplice - Her evidence must receive the same weight as
attached to evidence of injured witness.

It is a trite of law that a woman, who is the victim of sexual
assault, it is not an accomplice to the crime but is a victim of another
person’s lust. The prosecutrix stands at a higher pedestal then an injured
witness as she suffers from emotional injury. Therefore, her evidence
need not be tested with the same amount of suspicion as that of an
ACCOMPIICE. —veeeesseeeeenes Thus, the law that emerges on the issue is to the
effect that statement of prosecutrix, if found to be worthy of credence
and reliable, requires no corroboration. The Court may convict the

accused on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix.

20. I have perused the above observations made in different
facts and circumstances of the aforesaid particular cases which differ
with that of the present case in hand. However, due weightage are given
for arriving at the decision:

Here in the instance case the learned defence counsel
focusing on some facts as come out in the evidence relating to the
surroundings of the P.O. tried to convince this court that story as

narrated by the victim is unreliable and improbable. The accused in their
statement defence stated that there was a proposal of marriage came
from the side of the guardians of the victim and the same was refused
by accused Rabul Hussain and his elderly inmates, and for that both the
victim and his father created a concocted story not only against the said
accused but also against the co-accused who happened to be a friend of
accused Rabul. Learned P.P. on this point strongly contended that had
there been any such proposal the defence could have adduced evidence
by elderly inmates of accused Rabul at least to establish a probability of

false implication.

21. Now, upon hearing the rival contentions, it appears that the moot
question comes before this Court whether the testimonies of the victim
can be relied upon to arrive at the decision.

It is evident that the victim is related with accused Rabul as
cousin and he is her closed door neighbour. Under such circumstances it
appears to be very natural that there may not be any re-action on the
part of the victim at the first instance of the alleged act of taking away
which can otherwise be expected from any other victim in case of such
an act from an unknown person. Under such circumstances, even if it is
believed that on the date of Idd festival at the relevant time of the
afternoon there were many people on the road where the alleged
incident of taking away took place, but it cannot be expected that such
type of victim girl would always raise alarm or offer resistance against
such type of taking away by her near relative. Further, it appears that
such type of taking away takes very little time to come to the notice of
any other person. Therefore, non-noticing of taking away by any other
person, under the facts and circumstances of the case, cannot term the
victim’s testimony as false and that too being corroborated by other

witnesses. It may be that the victim did not re-act against the alleged
offence, as the first instance seeing the involvement of accused Rabul
being her relative and closed door neighbour. But this non re-action, if
any, cannot merely tend to suggest that she deposed falsely. Even if
under such circumstances the whole testimony of the victim is difficult to
be disbelieved specially in the absence of any contradiction or any
material discrepancy. It is also not believable that for refusal of any
marriage proposal any parents of such minor girl could jeopardize the
family reputation and also the future of such a minor girl. The
corroborative evidence shows that the victim was found near Nachgar
of Kashipur tea garden at night. If it is believed so, question comes as to
how such a minor girl could reach there unless somebody took her. It is
evident that there was no delay in filing of the ejahar on the very night
of the Idd festival. It is not believable that any person having faith in
Islam could lodge any false case on the day of any such holy festival and
that too, with a such type of allegation involving reputation of their
family. It is a fact that in the ejahar there is allegation of snatching away
of gold necklace and ear rings. It is seen that the ejahar was written by
other and nothing was uttered by the complainant (P.W.1) in this regard
and also by the victim both in her evidence as well as in her previous
statement made before the Magistrate and the doctor. Under such
circumstances it is difficult to presume that such an additional allegation
in the ejahar would term the testimony of the victim as false. It is
evident that occurrence of alleged rape took place in lonely area of tea

garden.

22. In view of the above discussion, considering the evidence in
its entirety I find no reason to disbelieve the testimony of the victim.
Evidence of the victim shows that both the accused persons took her

forcibly but only the accused Rabul committed rape on her.
23. In view of the above discussion, contention of both sides
and finding, it is held that prosecution case is proved beyond all
reasonable doubt against both the accused persons U/S 366/34 IPC and
also against accused Rabul Hussain U/S 4 of POCSO Act 2012. Therefore,

accused persons are held guilty and convicted accordingly.

24. Heard the accused persons on the point of sentence. Their
statements are also recorded in separate sheets tagged with the case
record. Having due regard to their statement and the intention of
legislature and the facts and circumstances of the case I convict both the
accused persons U/S 366/34 IPC to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment
(R.I.) for a period of five years and also to pay a fine of Rs. 2000/- each
and in default shall further undergo R.I. for a period of one month.
Accused Rabul Hussain Laskar is also convicted and sentenced U/S 4 of
POCSO Act to undergo R.I. for a period of seven years with fine of Rs.
5000/- and in default he shall further undergo R.I. for a period of three
months. Both the sentences shall run concurrently. Period of custody

shall be set off from the sentence.

Victim Compensation U/s 357 (A) CrP.C.

25. It is evident that the victim hails from a poor family. Such an

act of the accused persons not only tainted her cestity but also caused
mental trauma at the age of her adolescence and school life harmed the
reputation of her family. The act of the accused persons also harmed her
family reputation. Therefore, adequate compensation is required to be
awarded. Having due regard to the above and all other aspects an
amount of Rs. 100000/- (one lakh) is reasonably assessed as
compensation U/S 357(A) Cr.P.C. Accordingly it is recommended that the

Said amount shall be paid to the victim as compensation.

26. Copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused free
of cost as per provision section 363 Cr.PC and also be forwarded to the
District Magistrate as per provision of Section 365 Cr.P.C. Further, a copy
of Judgment shall also be forwarded to the Secretary of Govt. of Assam,
Political Department, to the Secretary, State Legal Service Authority and
also to the Secretary District Legal Service Authority for taking

appropriate step for payment of compensation.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court

under my seal and signature on this 31°t day of March, 2016.

(Shri K. Choudhury)
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Dictated & corrected by me.

(Shri K. Choudhury)
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by :
P. Dey, Stenographer.
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR.
Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 12/2015.
APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — Altaf Hussain Laskar.
PW. 2 — Josim Uddin.
PW. 3 — Najira Begum Laskar.
PW. 4— Jamrul Hussain.
PW. 5 — Badrul Ali Laskar.
PW. 6 — Sutapa Bhusan.
PW. 7 — Dr. Orina Raha.
PW. 8 — Binoy Nath (I.O).
(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL.
(C) COURT WITNESSES: - NIL.

(D) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — FLR.
Ext. 1 (1) — Signature of PW - 1.
Ext. 2 — Statement.

Ext. 2 (1) to 2 (4) — Signatures of PW - 3.
Ext. 2 (5) to 2 (7) — Initials of PW- 6.

Ext. 2 (8) -— Signature of PW-6.

Ext. 3 — Medical report.

Ext. 3 (1) — Signature of PW - 3.

Ext. 3 (2) — Signature of Dr. Orina Raha.
Ext. 3 (3) -— Signature of Dr. G. Das.
Ext. 4 — Sketch Map.

Ext. 4(1) — Signature of PW - 8.

Ext. 5 — Written prayer.

Ext. 5 (1) -— Signature of PW - 8.

Ext. 6 — Certificate.

Ext. 7 — Charge sheet.

Ext. 7 (1) — Signature of PW - 8.

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - Nil.

(Shri K. Choudhuy),
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
31-03-16:
Both the accused persons are present
Judgment is prepared in separate sheets tagged with the case
record.
It is held that prosecution case is proved beyond all reasonable
doubt against both the accused persons U/S 366/34 IPC and also against
accused Rabul Hussain U/S 4 of POCSO Act 2012. Therefore, accused

persons are held guilty and convicted accordingly.

Heard the accused persons on the point of sentence. Their
statements are also recorded in separate sheets tagged with the case
record. Having due regard to their statement and the intention of
legislature and the facts and circumstances of the case I convict both the
accused persons U/S 366/34 IPC to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment
(R.I.) for a period of five years and also to pay a fine of Rs. 2000/- each
and in default shall further undergo R.I. for a period of one month.
Accused Rabul Hussain Laskar is also convicted and sentenced U/S 4 of
POCSO Act to undergo R.I. for a period of seven years with fine of Rs.
5000/- and in default he shall further undergo R.I. for a period of three
months. Both the sentences shall run concurrently. Period of custody

shall be set off from the sentence._

Victim Compensation U/s 357 (A) CrP.C.

It is evident that the victim hails from a poor family. Such an
act of the accused persons not only tainted her cestity but also caused
mental trauma at the age of her adolescence and school life harmed the

reputation of her family. The act of the accused persons also harmed her
family reputation. Therefore, adequate compensation is required to be
awarded. Having due regard to the above and all other aspects an
amount of Rs. 100000/- (one lakh) is reasonably assessed as
compensation U/S 357(A) Cr.P.C. Accordingly it is recommended that

the said amount shall be paid to the victim as compensation.

26. Copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused free
of cost as per provision section 363 Cr.PC and also be forwarded to the
District Magistrate as per provision of Section 365 Cr.P.C. Further, a copy
of Judgment shall also be forwarded to the Secretary of Govt. of Assam,
Political Department, to the Secretary, State Legal Service Authority and
also to the Secretary District Legal Service Authority for taking

appropriate step for payment of compensation.

Bail Bonds stand cancelled.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open
Court under my seal and signature on this 31‘ day of March,

2016.

(Shri K. Choudhury)
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Dictated & corrected by me.

(Shri K. Choudhury)
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
