IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: ShriS. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL(POCSO) CASE NO. 2(3N) 2016.
U/s_376(2) (i) of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act.

(G.R. Case No.51/2016 ;Simen Chapari P.S. Case No.09/2016 Under Section
376(2) (i) of the Indian Penal Code R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act.)\

The State of Assam
~ Vers. —
Shri Pradip Pegu ................. Accused Person
S/O Late Numal Pegu,
R/O Somkong Pagro Gaon,
P.S. Simen Chapari,
Dist.- Dhemaji,

Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,

Pa PIO ee | toate For the State
Shri. G. Phukan and

Pes ee ee a For the Accused

Date of prosecution evidence : 16-05-2016, 26-09-2016,
07-12-2016, 20-03-2017,
18-04-2017 & 12-01-2018.
Date of argument : 28-08-2018

Date of Judgment : 10-09-2018.

JUDGMENT
Brief Facts:

i, Prosecution case in brief is that on 21-02-2016 complainant- Sri
Bhaktaram Mili lodged an ejahar with Simen chapori Police Station alleging
interalia that on 21-02-2016 at about 3 PM in the afternoon while he was
away from his house, accused Pradip Pegu entered in to his house and

forcibly committed rape on his minor daughter Miss ‘Xx’ (real name withheld).

2 On receipt of the ejahar police registered a case vide Simen
Chapori P.S. Case No.9/2016 u/s 376(2)(i) of I.P.C., R/W section 4 of POCSO
Act. Police started investigation and on completion of investigation submitted
Charge-sheet against the accused-Pradip Pegu u/s 376(2)(i)/511 Oo LPL.
R/W section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. The case came up before the learned SDJM, Jonai and the Ld.
Magistrate issued process for appearance of the accused and on appearance
furnished necessary copies to the accused and committed the case to this
Court.

4. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charge u/s 376(2)(i) of IPC read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not
guilty. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined eight witnesses.

After closure of the prosecution evidence the statement of the accused was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. Defence declined to
adduce any evidence.

5.Points for determination :

(1) That you, on 21-02-2016 at about 3 PM at village Loklung
under Simen Chapori Police Station, inside the house of Bhaktaram Mili
committed rape on his minor daughter — Miss ‘Xx’ aged about13 years,
and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 376(2)(i) of I.P.C.

(2) That you, on the same day at same time and place,
committed penetrative sexual assault on Miss ‘X’ a minor girl aged
about 13 years, and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of
POCSO Act.

6. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof :

¥, PW11 Shri Bhaktaram Mili identified the accused in the dock. He
deposed that victim Miss ‘x’ is his daughter and the occurrence took place in
the month of February. Accused committed rape on Miss ‘X’ inside their
house. On the date of occurrence at the relevant time he went to market and
victim was alone at home. On returning from market he came to know that
accused had committed rape on his daughter. He filed the ejahar at the
Police Station. He put his thumb impression in the ejahar. Police recorded his

statement. Victim was medically examined.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that at the time of occurrence
victim was 13 years old. He had not seen the occurrence. Victim herself told
about the occurrence to him. He denied the defence suggestion that he has
given false evidence that accused committed rape on his daughter. During
investigation police seized the school certificate of the victim.
8. PW2 Shri Bhaigeswar Daw identified the accused in the dock
and deposed that complainant-Bhaktaram Mili is his brother-in-law and victim
Miss ‘X’ is the Bhaktaram Mili’s daughter. According to him occurrence took
place about 7/8 months back. On the day of occurrence there was a party/
feast in his house and accused attended the party. He stated that the victim
came to his house crying and stated that accused had committed rape on
her. The boys of their village apprehended the accused and took to their
house. Victim ‘X’ told that the boy who committed rape on her was identified
as the accused Pradip Pegu. Knowing about the occurrence, father of victim

filed the ejahar at the Police Station. Police came and took his statement.

In cross-examination PW2 stated that he had not seen the
occurrence. Victim had told him about the occurrence. He denied that victim
did not tell him the occurrence. He denied that the relation between the
accused and his brother-in-law was not good. He also denied that he has
given false evidence against the accused in favour of his brother-in-law. It is

also denied that the accused did not commit any offence.

9. PW3 is the victim. She identified the accused in the dock and
deposed that occurrence took place about 6 months back. On the date of
occurrence she was alone at her home as other family members had gone to
attend a party. At the relevant time accused came to her house and grabbed
her from behind and dragged her inside the house and removed her clothes
and laid her on the bed and kissed her. She also stated that accused had sev
with her. She somehow escaped and went to the party/feast. The accused
also tried to escape but the village boys apprehended him. Her father had
gone to market and on his return she told her father about the incident and
her father lodged compliant at Simen Chapori police station. Police got her
medically examined and also produced before Magistrate for recording her
statement. She also stated that at the relevant time she was reading in

class VI.

In cross PW3 stated that the accused does not live near their
house. The accused had come to attend the party. She does not know if
accused had consumed liquor (Apong) at the party. Apong was served in the
party. It is denied that she has lied about the accused removing her clothes
and about kissing and raping her. She denied that she has not told the police
about the accused removing her clothes. She also denied that the accused
and her father had a fight earlier and they did not maintain a good
relationship with accused. It is denied that the accused had not come to their

house.

10. PW4 Smti Jugeswari Mili stated that she knows the accused.
Victim Miss ‘X’ is her daughter. Occurrence took place about 6 months ago at
about 3 PM. At the time of occurrence victim was alone in his house. Her
father had gone to the market. There was a party in a nearby house. She
came to know from the victim: that a person came and raped her, but she did
not know the person. Then she raised hue and cry and people caught the
accused. At the police station she identified the accused.

In cross-examination PW4 stated that accused-Pradip Pegu lived
at a distance from their house. He is related to them. The wife of Pradip Pegu
(accused), is the sister of her husband. The accused had come to the party.
She does not know whether accused had consumed ‘Apong’ at the party. She
had not seen the rape. She denied that the victim did not tell her about the
accused committing rape on her. The victim told her that the accused had
removed her clothes. She denied that she did not tell the police that she had
told her about the accused removed her clothes. She does not know how

many people were there but it must have been about 200 to 300. They do
not have a bad relation with the accused. They do visit the house of the
accused. It is denied that due to grudge they have filed a false case against

the accused. She denied that she has given false evidence in the Court.

a3. PWS5 Dr. Moni Deb stated that on 21-02-2016 he examined the
victim Miss ‘X’ at Boginodi PHC in connection with Simen Chapori GD Entry
No.356 dated 21-02-2016 on being escorted by Rinku Gogoi. On examination

he found as follows-

On physical examination- Mark of violence was detected over
dorsum of left hand and on examination of the private part- no any injury

found over the private part. Hymen was found intact.
X-Ray was advised but the same has not been communicated.

In his opinion PW5 opined that the victim was not exposed to
intercourse, her actual age could not be ascertained as no X-Ray report was
communicated. According to the attendant she was 13 years old. Exhibit-1 is

the injury-report and Ext-1(1) is his signature therein.
Defence declined to cross-examine the Doctor (PW5).

12, PW6 Shri Sashi Daw stated that he knows the accused as well
as the victim Miss ’X’. Occurrence took place about 7 months back at about 3
PM. He was in the house of Lawka Daw. They were at a party and enjoying.
Accused had come and had also taken part in the celebration, but the
accused left early. Then after sometime the girl came crying and told that
accused had caught her and raped her. Then they caught the accused and

gave him beating and took him to the police station.

In cross-examination PW6 denied that the girl (victim) did not

come and tell them about the fact that the accused-Pradip Pegu had caught
her and raped her. He did not ask the victim anything. He denied the defence
suggestion that he did not tell the police as he has evidenced in the Court.

13. PW7 Shri Basudeb Chingpho stated that on 21-02-2016 he was
O/C at Simen Chapori police station. On that day one Bhakta Bahadur Mili
lodged an F.I.R. and he registered the same as Simen Chapori P.S. Case
No.9/2016 u/s 376(2)(i) IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act and he took charge
of the investigation. Thereafter he went to the PO and drew the sketch map.
He also took the statement of the witnesses. He sent the victim Miss ‘Xx’ for
medical examination and later collected the report. Statement of the victim
got recorded u/s 164 Cr.PC and he collected the same. He also seized the
Original birth certificate of the victim ‘xX’. He arrested the accused and
forwarded him to the court. Thereafter, finding evidence against the accused,
he filed the charge sheet against all the accused persons u/s 376(2)(i) IPC
R/W section 4 of POCSO Act. Ext.2 is the sketch map and Ext.2(1) is his
signature. Ext.4 is the seizure list and Ext.4(1) is his signature. Ext.3 is the

charge sheet and Ext.3(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination PW7 stated that he had collected the
school certificate. He denied that he has not properly investigated the case.

14. PW8 Smti Archana Konch Dutta stated that on 23-02-2016 she
was the Bench Asstt. of Judicial Magistrate 1% class, Jonai, Surajit Boruah. On
that day JMFC, Surajit Boruah recorded the statement of Miss ‘X’ u/s 164
Cr.PC. Ext.5 is the statement recorded by JMFC, Surajit Boruah and Ext.5(1)
is his signature which is known to her. The victim put her thumb impression

in the statement and she took the RTI of the victim.

In cross-examination PW8 stated that the victim stated that she

was illiterate and cannot write.
Appreciation of evidence :

5. From the discussion of the evidence on record it appears that
prosecution relies upon the evidence of victim and other non-official
witnesses. Prosecution examined five non-official witnesses including the
victim. PW1 is victim’s father as well as the complainant. According to
complainant at the time of occurrence he was away from home and on
returning home he came to know about the occurrence. Victim has been
examined as PW3. In her deposition she stated that on the date of
occurrence she was alone at home, accused came and dragged her inside her
house and removed her clothes and Kissed her and committed rape on her.
Other witnesses PW2, PW4 and PW6 stated that on the date of occurrence
there was a feast/party in the house of PW2. These witnesses also stated
that the accused came to the party. Further they stated that they saw victim
coming crying to the party and on being asked told them that accused
committed rape on her.

16. The victim in her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC also stated that
there was a party near her house and she was alone at home and the
accused came and grabbed her and removed her under garments and laid

her on a bad and kissed her and had sex with her.

I? ; Looking at the medical evidence we find that the MO- PW5, on
examination of the victim did not find any mark of injury in her private part
and ‘the hymen was found intact and in the opinion of the doctor the victim
was not exposed to any sexual intercourse. However, the MO on physical

examination found mark of violence over dorsum of left hand.

18. I have carefully considered the entire evidence on record. It is
seen that the victim is aged about 13 years of age. From the statement of the
victim during trial and her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC it transpires that on the

date of occurrence the accused came to her house while she was alone in her
house. It is also in the evidence of PW3 and other non-official witnesses that

there was a party near her house and the accused came to the party.

19. In the instant case on careful examination of the medical
evidence we find that there is nothing on record to show that sexual

intercourse or penetrative assault was committed on the victim.

20. However, the evidence of the victim that the accused caught
hold of her and removed her clothes and kissed her found to be reliable in
the facts and circumstances of the case. In my considered opinion though we
do not find solid evidence in regard to penetrative assault or sexual
intercourse, there is ample evidence to make out a case of outraging the

modesty of a woman.

Zr. The defence case was of total denial as revealed from the
cross-examination and the statement of accused u/s 313 Cr.PC. In cross
examination defence attempted to show that the accused and the father of

the victim did not maintain good relation for which false case has been filed.

Ee. I have given my anxious thought to the entire materials and I
find that the plea of the defence is not acceptable in the facts and

circumstances of the case.

“a3: From the above discussion and appreciation of evidence it is
found that no case u/s 376(2)(i) IPC and R/W section 4 of POCSO Act is
made out in this case. However, we find that there is enough evidence to

hold that the accused committed an offence u/s 354 IPC.

Sec 354 IPC reads : Assault or criminal force to
woman with intent to outrage her modesty.—Whoever
assaults or uses criminal force to any woman, intending to
outrage or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby outrage
her modesty, [ shall be punished with imprisonment of either
‘Dhemalt.

10

description for a term which shall not be less than one year but

which may extend to five years, and shall also be liable to fine].

The essential ingredients of the offence under sec.354

IPC are as under:

(i) That the person assaulted must be a woman;

(ii) | That the accused must have used criminal force
on her; and

(ili) | That the criminal force must have been used on
the woman intending thereby to Outrage her
modesty.

24. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Tarkeshwar Sahu v
State of Bihar (2006)8 SCC held as under: ‘The essence of a woman’s
modesty is her sex. The culpable intention of the accused is the crux of the matter.
The reaction of the woman is very relevant, but its absence is not always decisive.
Modesty is an attribute associated with female human beings as a class. It is a virtue
which attaches to a female owing to her sex.’

25; In view of what has been discussed above I find that
prosecution has been able to prove an offence u/s 354 IPC beyond all
reasonable doubt. I find that prosecution has failed to prove the charge u/s
376(2)(i) IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act beyond reasonable doubt.

26. Though there is no specific charge in my considered Opinion
accused can be convicted by invoking sec 222 of Cr.PC.

ORDER:

a7. I find the accused Pradip Pegu guilty u/s 354 IPC. Accordingly
he is convicted thereunder. I find the accused not guilty u/s 376(2)(i) IPC
R/W section 4 of POCSO Act and he is acquitted of the said charges.
28.

ih

The accused pleaded for mercy on the ground that he has his

wife and children and in his absence they will suffer.

29.

Considering all aspect the accused is sentenced to S.I. for 1

(one) year and to pay a fine of Rs.500/-(five hundred) i.d. S.I. for (1) one
month u/s 354 IPC.

30.

aie

52.

Im

34.

Set off the period of detention.

Judgment is pronounced in open Court.

Bail bond extended up to 6 months u/s 437 A IPC.

A copy of judgment free of cost be given to the accused persons.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 10t*

day of Sept/ 2018.

ogee
(\S. Das )

SReGeluiigege,

™Dnemaji.
12

APPENDIX:

Prosecution Witnesses

 

PW1

Pw4
PW5

PW6 :
PW7 :
PW8 :

: Bhaktaram Mili,
PW2:
PW3 :

Bhaigeswar Daw,
Miss ‘X’ (victim),

: Smti Jogeswari Mili,

: Dr. Muni Dev,

Sashil Daw,
Bisadu SIngphu, IO,
Smti Archana Konch Dutta.

Prosecution Exhibits :

Exhibit-1  : Medical Report.

Exhibit-1(1) : Signature of Moni Dev,

Exhibit-2  : Sketch map,

Exhibit-2(1) : Signature of Bisadu Singphu, 10
Exhibit-3  : Charge Sheet.

Exhibit-3(1) : Signature of Bisadu Singphu, IO
Exhibit-4 — : Seizure list,

Exhibit-4(1) : Signature of Bisadu Singphu, IO
Exhibit-5 — : Statement of victim ‘x’ u/s 164 Cr.PC,
Exhibit-5(1) : Signature of JMFC, Surajit Boruah

Defence Exhibits ;

 

None.

G
3p (
ol"!

( S.Das)

apd iabguice,
Dhenaimaii.
