Page 1 of 12

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 55 of 2017
Under section 8 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out Thelamara PS Case No. 106/2017)

State of Assam

—Vs—
Sri Tarun Paharia _ Accused Person

Present : Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State :  Mr.M.C. Baruah,

Special\Public Prosecutor

For the accused : \Smti Dulumoni Sinha, Advocate
Date of Argument : 14-03-2019.
Date ofJudgment : 28-03-2019.
JUDGMENT
1. The genesis of the present case is that for last one and half month

prior to the filing of the FIR dated 15-09-2017, accused Tarun Paharia taking
advantage of absence of the informant at home, by offering money used to
lure her 9 years old daughter and taking her to jungle attempted to commit
misdeed on her by offering chocolate etc. Lastly, on 13-09-2017, at about 3
p.m., while the informant was not at home, accused coming to her house, had
taken her daughter to the nearby jungle and asked her to open her wearing

apparels but somehow her daughter fled away and informed the matter.

 
Page 2 of 12

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.1) on 15-09-2017 from the informant
(PW1), the victim’s mother, Thelamara P.S. Case No. 106/2017 u/s 8 of
POCSO Act was registered and launched investigation of the case. During
investigation, the Investigating Officer (PW 8) recorded the statement of the
witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got her statement
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation having found
materials, laid chargesheet against the accused Tarun Paharia u/s 8 of POCSO
Act.

3. On appearance of the accused person before<this Court, after
furnishing the copies of the documents as required u/s \207 of Cr.P.C. and
having heard both parties, my learned predecessor,. framed charge u/s 8 of
POCSO Act against the accused Tarun Paharia©and, particulars of the charge
on being read over and explained to the%accUsedy person, he pleaded not

guilty and claimed for trial.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as eight
numbers of witnesses. On closure=of ‘the prosecution evidence, statement of
the accused was recorded u/s 343 Cr.P.C. wherein the accused denied all the
incriminating evidence that*emerged against him and taking the plea of enmity
stated that about*8yyears.back he called a meeting upon the informant as she
used to play card with children for which she got ashamed and threatened him
that she would see’him in future. Hence, out of revenge filed the present case.
5. I have heard the argument of the learned counsel of both sides and

also.Mave gone through the materials on record.
6. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) " Whether the accused Tarun Paharia on 13-09-2017 at around 3 p.m. at
village Borati under Thelamara Police Station committed sexual assault on
the victim Miss "X”, a minor girl aged about 9 years, and thereby committed
an offence punishable under section 8 of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

ai Before entering into discussion of the oral evidence, let it be seen
whether the victim is a child as defined in section 2(d) of the POCSO Act. Here

in this case, as per evidence of the victim and her parents, the victim was 9

 
Page 3 of 12

years old at the time of alleged offence. Age of the victim girl is not disputed
in this case and as such I unhesitatingly held that in any circumstances the
victim was a child as defined in section 2 (d) of POCSO Act.

8. Now, the question is whether the accused Tarun Paharia committed
any offence on the victim child. In this respect let me travel through the

evidence adduced by the prosecution side.

9. PW 1 is the informant as well as the mother of the victim. She
deposed that on 13-09-2017 at about 3 p.m. her 9 years old victim daughter a
student of class VI reported her that accused committed rape’en her while
she (PW1) was not at home. The victim told her that*the accused calling her
to the jungle near her house had shown her obscene video in mobile and also
had shown his sexual organ. Hearing about‘the incident, she informed the
matter to the VDP secretary but as he did‘not.response, hence, she filed the
FIR on 15-09-2017. She proved the FIR‘as Ext:1.

During cross, she stated\that*the victim also reported the incident to
her father (PW2) at night. The,house of the accused is situated at a difference
of two houses from her house’and in between the place of occurrence i.e. the
jungle and her house,“there are four houses. The residence of Hemanta Nath,
Anil Paharia, Bijaya Devi, Sunu Munda is near to the place of occurrence. She
deposed that\she, informed the matter to VDP secretary Pranjit Saikia.
According, to this witness, the accused is her cousin brother and he resided
with his wife’ and three children but she did not report the incident to the wife
of the.accused. She admitted that a meeting was convened against her on
complain of the accused alleging committing misdeed and _ polluting
environment and in the meeting she confessing her guilt assured not to do
such misdeed in future. She denied the suggestion that in the said meeting in
presence of villagers, she threatened the accused to face dire consequence.

She admitted that they refused to got examine the victim medically.

10. PW 2, the father of the victim girl, stated that in day time he usually
used to reside in his shop which is about 14 km away from his house. He

testified that on 13-09-2017 in absence of his wife, accused coming to his

 
Page 4 of 12

house, lured his daughter by giving money, chocolate etc and calling his
daughter along with one Gita to the nearby jungle, showed them blue film on
mobile. He further stated that the accused by opening his pant had shown his
private part to his daughter. Hearing about the incident from his wife and the
victim, on 15-09-2017 he lodged the FIR.

During cross he stated that on that day after returning home, he
came to know about the incident but he did not report to the neighbours that

accused called his daughter by luring to give chocolate and money.

11. PW 3 Smt. Bijaya Devi, the neighbour turned hostile’She, stated that
only after arrest of the accused, she came to knowgaboutythe incident. She
stated that on being asked by police as to whether she knew about the

incident, she replied that she knew nothing.

During cross by defence she stated“that there is enmity in between
the informant and the accused for convening a village meeting by the accused

against the informant.

12. Close on the heels of the evidence of the informant, PW 4, Sri Pranjit
Saikia, testified thatethexinformant coming to him reported that accused had
shown some obscene photo on his mobile to the victim girl. She also reported
him that the. aceused “offering money and chocolate, took her daughter to
jungle andvasked=her to open her pant and when the accused hold her hand,
the victim“fled away by biting the hand of the accused. The informant also
told.him,that since last 1% years, the accused attempted to commit misdeed
to the victim girl and a few days back the accused taking the victim to jungle,
had shown his sexual organ and obscene photo. Hearing the incident, he

advised the informant to wait for 2/ 3 days and then to take help of court.

13. The star witness of the case i.e. the victim (PW 5) deposed that on
13-09-2017 when she was at home at around 2.30/3 p.m. accused called her
along with one Gita Devi to the jungle which is situated infront of the house of
her grand father and asked her to open her pant, but she refused. Then the
accused opened his pant and thereafter when attempted to open her pant

also, she by biting on his hand fled away. She further deposed that the

 
Page 5 of 12

accused asked her not to report the incident to his wife. She stated that after
that incident, again the accused asked her to open pant and himself opened

his pant. She proved her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as Ext. 2.

During cross, she stated that her grand father is a deaf one whose
home is situated near the place of occurrence and when she raised alarm, he
might not hear. She stated that she did not report the incident occurred after
13-09-2017 to anybody including her mother. She further stated that at the
time of incident Gita Devi, aged about 11 years, was with her and her mother
enquired Gita Devi about the incident. She stated that she faised alarm while
the accused dragged her towards jungle but due to.dragging, she did not

sustain scratches. She denied of being tutored by the villagers.

14, PW 6, the then learned SDJM(S),Tezpur,\deposed that on 15-09-2017
she recorded the statement of the victim u/s, 164 €r.P.C. vide Ext.2.

During cross, she stated that though she recorded the statement of
the victim after giving reflection time but she did not mention how much time

was given to the victim for.reflection.

15. PW 7 HemantaxNath also turned hostile. He stated that he knew

nothing about the*incident.

During, cross by defence, he stated that in the year 2012 a village
meeting was. convened alleging involvement of the informant in immoral
activitiessand in the said meeting the informant gave an undertaking in writing
that, she will not indulge in such immoral activities in future. In the said
meeting when the accused cautioned the informant not to do such act in

future, an altercation took place between the accused and the informant.

16. PW 8 the Investigating Officer, deposed that on 15-09-2017 on
receipt of an FIR from the informant, he registered the case being Thelamara
PSCase No. 106/17 u/s 8 of POCSO Act and himself investigated the same.
During investigation, he visited the place of occurrence, recorded the
statement of the informant and victim and other witnesses, drew the sketch

map of the place of occurrence vide Ext.3, sent the victim for medical

 
Page 6 of 12

examination, got recorded the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.,
arrested the accused Tarun Paharia and on completion of investigation,
submitted chargesheet against the accused u/s 8 of POCSO Act vide Ext. 4.

PW 8 confirmed the statements of hostile witness Bijaya Devi (PW 3)
and Hemanta Nath (PW7) made before him.

During cross, he stated that in uniform he recorded the statement of
the victim in her house while the WPC Manju Kumari was in civil dress. He
stated that he has not examined Gita as witness. He also did“not notice any

injury in the hand of the accused.

17. The evidence of the PWs reveals that the ‘other\PWs had not seen
the incident. Victim’s parents Knew about the incident*from the victim. So, the
evidence of the victim child forms the pivotxaroundywhich revolves the entire

case of the prosecution is relevant in this case,

The evidence of the victim reveals that on 13-09-2017 at around 2.30
p.m. accused Tarun Pasharia’called.her to nearby jungle infront of the house
of her grand father and.asked her to open pant and when she did not do the
same, the accused himselfxopened his own pant and also attempted to open
her pant but then by biting the hand of the accused, she fled away. Her
further evidence is ‘also that accused asked her not to told about the incident
to his wifexTestimony of her parents, PW 1 and PW 2, is that on 13-09-2017
at around 3,p.m. the accused calling the victim to the jungle near their house,
hadwshown her some obscene video (cinema) on his mobile and also had
shown his sexual organ. Though the victim in her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext.2, stated that the accused had shown obscene cinema in his mobile but
during evidence she remained silent regarding showing cinema. The informant
(PW 1) also stated that hearing about the incident on the very day, she
informed the matter to VDP secretary Pranjit Saikia but as he did nothing,
hence, after 2 days she lodged the FIR. The said Pranjit Saikia was examined
as PW 4. Corroborating the evidence of the informant, he stated that
informant coming to his house reported that accused had shown some

obscene video to her daughter on his mobile and luring her daughter by

 
Page 7 of 12

giving money, chocolate etc., took her to jungle and asked to open her pant
and when the accused hold her hand, she fled away by biting the hand of the
accused. The informant also reported him that accused had shown his sexual
organ and obscene photo in his mobile to her daughter. Hearing the incident,
he advised her to take help of court after waiting 2/ 3 days. The evidence of
PW 1, PW 2 and PW 4 are found corroborative in nature. In this case, there is
delay of two days in filing the FIR. The evidence of PW 4 shows that as per
his advice, the informant awaited for 2 days and then lodged the FIR. Hence,
in my view this delay of two days in a case of sexual harassmention a child is

not fatal to the prosecution.

18. Other two witnesses PW 3 and PW 7 turned hostile during trial. In
this case, the accused in his statement u/s 313 @r°P.C. took the plea that
about 8 years back a meeting was held. “on the\complaint of the accused
against the informant for playing catd with“children for which she got
ashamed and threatened him that she would see him in future and hence filed
this false case. Holding meeting, against the informant is admitted by the
informant but she denied.the, fact of threatening the accused to face dire
consequence. Corroborating the evidence of PW 1, the hostile witness PW 7
during cross by defence also’stated that a meeting was held in the year 2012
against the informant for involvement in immoral activities where the
informant gave. an undertaking that she will not indulge in such immoral
activities\in future and in the said meeting when the accused cautioned the
informant not to do such activities, an altercation took place between them.
PW /*also clarified that he attended the said meeting. This hostile witness also
didenot state that in the said meeting the informant threatened the accused to
see in future. Another hostile witness (PW 3) also stating about the meeting,
told that for that reason, they had enmity. In absence of evidence, defence
plea that the informant threatened the accused to see in future stands failed.
Moreover, the said meeting was held in the year 2012. It is not believable
that after long lapse of about 6/7 years a mother would set her daughter 9

years old daughter with such an allegation of sexual harassment.

 
Page 8 of 12

19. Though there are some ommissions in the evidence of the victim in
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and in deposition regarding showing obscene
cinema in mobile but the evidence of the victim lead assurance to the fact
that the accused taking her to the jungle asked her to open her pant and
when she did not open, he himself opened his pant and thereby exhibits his
private part to her. As such, those minor discrepancies does not nullify the
material fact that the accused asked her to open her pant and exhibited his
private part to the victim by opening his pant. During cross defence could
elicit nothing tangible to discredit her version on this material point. Probative
value of her evidence remains unshaken throughout her gasevonsthis material
particular. Moreover, by and large a witness cannot be expected to possess a
photographic memory and to recall the details of an incident. It is not as if a
video tape is replayed on the mental screen. In this case, the victim being an
infant child of 9 years only, so she cannot be expected to possess a
photographic memory of everything\of the incident and those minor

discrepancies does not wipe of thé@yreliable part of her evidence on record.

20. Further as per evidence ‘of the victim and her parents, the incident
occurred in the nearbyjungle infront of their house whereas the learned
defence counsel vehemently argued that as per evidence of hostile witness
PW 7, there is no\yungle near their house but the sketch map, Ext. 3 indicates
existence ofyjungle in front side of the house of the informant which is other
side of the road. The learned defence counsel also pointed me that as per
evidencevof the victim she by biting the accused ran away from the place of
occurrence whereas evidence of the I.0. shows that the accused sustained no
injury on his hand and it creates doubt about the veracity of her evidence. In
this case, the FIR was filed after two days and accused was also arrested after
two days of the incident. There is also no evidence that how much force the
victim used in biting the accused of the age of 48 years. So, for not
finding/sustaining bite mark after two days, it cannot be said that she

deposed falsely.

21. In this case, the victim stated that at the time of incident one Gita

Devi, D/O Lotha @ Rajendra was also with her when the accused took her to

 
Page 9 of 12

jungle and committed the offence. Said Gita was not examined by the
Investigating Officer the reason best known to him. As per the evidence of the
victim she does not know her title. In such circumstances, she could not be
examined as court witness in absence of her title and address. It is well
settled that “Testimony of victim in case of sexual offence is vital and unless
there are compelling reason which necessitates looking for corroboration of
her statement, the court should find so difficulties to act on the testimony of a
victim of sexual assault alone to convict an accused where her testimony
inspire confidence and is found to be reliable. Seeking .corroboration of
statement before relying upon the same, as a rule, in sueh cases.amounts to
adding insult to injury.” (State of Punjab Vs. Gurmit Singh, 1996 Cr.L.J.
1728). In this case, the victim appears to be a witness of truth and I find no
reason to discard the evidence of the victim without\examining Gita Devi for

corroboration.

22. The unimpeachable evidence of the child, coupled with the testimony
of her parents and VDP Secretary, (PW*4) reveals that the accused committed
sexual harassment on the.victim by exhibiting his body by opening pant and
also asking her to open.her\pant. There is nothing for not accepting the
evidence of the victim, The evidence of the victim is found spontaneous and
trustworthy withoutsinviting any suspicion and tutored and I am of the view
that the aet of the accused amounts to sexual harassment attracting the
ingredients of.Section 11 of POCSO Act punishable u/s 12 of POCSO Act.

23. Situated thus, the conclusion which is irresistible is that prosecution
side \succeeded in establishing that the accused Tarun paharia committed
sexual harassment on the victim by showing his sexual organ and asking her

to open her pant.

24. In this case, though the charge is framed u/s 8 of the POCSO Act but
the offence u/s 12 of POCSO Act is well established from the facts and
circumstances of the evidence on record. As section 12 of POCSO Act relates
to same nature of offence as of section 8 of POCSO Act and the punishment

prescribes in Section 8 of the Act is greater in degree than section 12 of the

 
Page 10 of 12

Act, hence, I am of the view that alteration of charge is not required.
Accordingly, accused is found guilty of the charge u/s 12 of POCSO Act and

convicted him accordingly.

25. In this case in hand, sexual harassment was committed on a 9 year
old girl, helpless and vulnerable both physically and psychologically. Though
all sexual assaults on female children are not reported and do not come to
light yet there is an alarming and shocking increase of sexual offences
committed on children. In the instant case, the 9 year old girl, was supposed
to spend time in cheerfulness, with her dignity. The young girl, with efflux of
time, would grow with such memories. She understood, nothing what the
accused was doing with her. The convict being a fully matured man of 48
years and father of children was expected to’ protect her from abuse, but
instead he himself abused her childhood\andy sexually harassed her. He

committed a serious offence against a minor.

26. I have heard the accused‘Tarun Paharia on the point of sentence.
His statement is recorded where.he.stated that he is a daily wage earner and
is to look after his family out of.his meagre income and prayed for leniency.
On the other hand, theNearned Special Public Prosecutor submitted that the
offence being heifious, the accused should not be dealt with leniency. In the
facts and cireumstances of the case and the nature of the offence committed
by the aecused being a full matured person of 48 years on a very tender aged

girl, in‘my ‘opinion, he could not be given the benefit of probation.

27: I gave my anxious consideration on the aspect of quantum of
sentence. Sentencing for any offence has a social goal, sentence is to be
imposed in respect of the offence and the manner in which the offence has
been committed. The purpose of imposition of sentence is based on the
principle that the accused must realise that the crime committed by him

created a concavity in the social goals.

28. Considering all aspects, I sentence the convict Tarun Paharia to
undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for 1 (one) year and also to pay a fine of

Rs. 5,000/- (Rupees five thousand), in default to undergo Rigorous

 
Page 11 of 12

Imprisonment for another 2 (two) months for the offence punishable u/s 12 of
POCSO Act.

The fine amount on realization be paid to the victim.

The period of detention already undergone by the accused shall be
set off against the terms of imprisonment as per provision of section 428 of
Cr.P.C.

29. Let a free copy of the Judgment be furnished to the convict.

30. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 28" day of
March, 2019.

(i.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(i,Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno.
Prosecution witnesses.

Exhibits.

Ext. 1
Ext. 2

Ext. 3

Ext. 4

SI or ol oe he MS

PW 1
PW 2
PW 3
PW 4
PW 5
PW 6
PW 7
PW 8

Page 12 of 12

: Mother of the victim.
: father of the victim.
: Bijaya Devi

: Pranjit Saikia

: victim

: SDJM(S), Tezpur.

: Hemanta Nath

: LO.

FIR
164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim

Sketch map

Charge sheet

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
