 

BONGAIGAON

~ Special (P) Case No. 1(BGN)/2018.

U/S 4 of POCSO Act.
(Bongaigaon P.S. Case No. 549 of 2017)

State of Assam
Vs.
Kolin Nath.....Accused.

PRESENT :- Smiti. I. Barman,
Special Judge (under POCSO Act),

Bongaigaon.

Appearance :-.

For the State : Smti R.Choudhury, Public
Prosecutor.

For the accused : Sri P. Sharma, Advocate.

Date of Argument: 14.08.2018.
Date of Judgment : 28.08.2018.

 

JUDGMENT AND ORDER

 

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 25.7.2017 at

G
(, co around 10 P.M accused Kolin Nath entering into the house of the
Jes poe informant had committed sexual assault on his 17 years old daughter
| eR aal ; ; i.
“pont? forcefully but hearing sound when the family members of the victim

proceeded towards her room, the accused by breaking the door ran away

Contd...
Ber

490

ve qq Sehs

spe

gp.

(2)

therefrom.

2. FIR on the incident was lodged on 27.07.2017 by
PW 1 the father of the victim before the Incharge Bidyapur Out Post.

3 On receipt of the FIR, the Incharge Bidyapur Out
Post made the GDE No. 434 dated 27.7.207 and forwarded the same to
the O/C, Bongaigaon Police Station who accordingly registered a case
being Bongaigaon Police Station Case No. 549/2017 U/S 8 of POCSO
Act and entrusted S.I. Ajoy Kr Saha to investigate the case. Accordingly,
the Investigating Officer visited the place of occurrence, recorded the
statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got
recorded her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C, seized a birth certificate of the
victim and then on completion of investigation laid charge-sheet against

the accused Kolin Nath U/S under Section 8 of POCSO Act.

4, On perusing police report and hearing both sides,
having found a prima facie case, charge U/S 4 of POCSO Act was
framed against the accused. The accused pleaded innocence when charge

was read over and explained to him and claimed for trial.

Point for determination:-

1. Whether on 25.07.2017 at around 10.00 P.M at village
Rashigaon under Bongaigaon Police station committed
penetrative sexual assault on the minor victim punishable

U/S 4 of POCSO Act?

5. In this case, to bring home the charge against the
Contd....
(3)

accused, prosecution examined as many as 10 (ten) witnesses.

6. In statement U/S 313 CrP.C the accused denied all

the allegations leveled against him. Defence examined none.

7. I have heard argument advanced by the learned

counsel of both sides and also gone through the materials on record.

Discussion, decision and reasons thereof:-

8. Let the evidence of the witnesses be appreciated for
the purpose of adjudicating the charge against the accused U/S 4 of
POCSO Act.

9. PW 1 is the informant as well as father of the
victim. He deposed that on the day of incident at night, his victim
daughter was sleeping with his youngest daughter in a room and in
adjacent room his nephew and son (PW 3) were sleeping while he slept
in another house of the same campus. On that night at about 10.00/11.00
P.M hearing hue and cry of his son, he came out and then his son, PW 3
told him that accused Kolin Nath entered into the room of the victim. But
at that time hearing hulla, accused Kolin Nath by breaking the door ran
away. Then he called the neighbours. On being enquired on that night
though the victim said nothing but after two days she admitted that
accused had come and was with her. According to the informant, the
accused married his niece . Regarding the incident he filed the FIR, Ext
1. Police seized birth certificate of the victim vide Ext 2. He admitted
that after 8 years of birth, he obtained the birth certificate of the victim.
Contd...
ABS ©
gone

ans

rs O4

(4)
During cross he stated that he married at the age of 22 years and after 2
years of marriage the victim was born. He admitted that at the time of
incident the victim was 19 years old and at the time of obtaining birth
certificate, he shows her age less than her actual age. He also admitted
that as per instruction of the villagers, he lodged the FIR showing the age

of the victim as 17 years,

10. PW 2 is the victim herself. She deposed that on
25.7.2017 at around 10 BM accused Kolin Nath coming near the window
of her room called her. Then on opening the door, the accused entered
into her room and while she was talking with Kolin Nath, hearing voice,
her brother came out, closed the door from outside and called her father.
Then Kolin Nath by pushing the door bended the bolt and went out from
the room. She also admitted that then on being enquired by her father,
she replied that she knew nothing but on next day when her father called
Mahila Samittee, she admitted that accused came to her room and did
physical relation with her, She proved her statement U/S 164 Cr.PC vide
Ext 3. During cross she admitted that she had love affair with accused
Kolin Nath for last 1/ 1% years. She also admitted that out of love, she
did have physical relation with the accused on her own accord and at that
time she was 19 years old, but in statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C, she stated

her age as 15 years as tutored by police.

11. PW 3, the brother of the victim categorically
deposed that on the day of incident at night he was sleeping with his
cousin brother and in the adjacent room his elder sister, the victim was
sleeping. The two rooms are separated by a partition. On that night at

Contd....
g pet
yore

; qodk*>
2,50

al

(5)

around 10.30 P.M, hearing talk, he switched on the light of the room
and had noticed the shoe of accused Kolin Nath in the room of the
victim. Then he bolted the room from outside and called his father. But
then the accused kicking at the door, bended the bolt of the door and ran
away. Though his father chased the accused but he fled away and on
next day, on being called the women of the village, the victim admitted
that the accused came. During cross he stated that he only had noticed
the shoe of the accused but had not seen him in person and on next day
only from the victim came to know that the accused had come.

12. PW 4 Nirmala Nath heard that accused Kolin Nath
entered into the house of the informant and had did misdeed with victim.
During cross he stated that at the time of incident the victim was above

18 years.

13. PW 5 Dalim Ch Nath deposed that on 25.7.2017 the
incident occurred and on next day morning, the members of the Mahila
Samittee asked the victim regarding entry of the accused in her room at
around 10 P.M. He proved his signature in the seizure list Ext 2 by
which the birth certificate of the victim was seized. During cross he
stated that after the occurrence he heard about the love affairs of the
victim with the accused. According to this witness at the time of incident

the victim was 18 years old.

14. PW 6 Abdus Sobahan Ahmed the Pharmacist of the
Bidyapur CHC deposed that on 11.9.2017 police coming to their office
verified the birth certificate of the victim and accordingly after going
through the Birth and Death Register, he found that the date of birth of
Contd....
(6)
the victim was 10.2.2003. During cross examination he stated that there
is every possibility to show the actual age less when one applies birth

certificate after 21 days of birth.

15. PW 7, the grand mother of the victim testified that
on that night she was not at home and on next day morning returning
home found the informant asking his daughter as to who entered into her
room to which the victim remained silent. Then on being called, the
villagers came in whose presence on being enquired, the victim, told that
at night accused Kolin Nath entered into her room and pulled her
wearing apparels. During cross she stated that at the time of incident the

victim was 19 years old.

16. PW 8 Jyotima Nath in her evidence stated that on
25.7.2017 at around 10 P.M she heard hulla in the house of the informant
and on next day at 5 P.M on being called by the mother of the informant
i.e P.W 7, they about 10/12 women went to the house of the informant
wherein they were reported that at night at around 10 BM one boy
entered into the house of the informant and when his youngest son called
him informing about entry of the boy, the accused Kolin Nath by
pushing the door ran out from the room of the victim, but the victim did
not admit the fact. Hearing the incident when the women enquired the
victim, she admitted that the accused entered into her room. She also
proved her signature in the seizure list Ext 2 by which the birth certificate

was seized.

17. PW 9 Ajay Kr Saha, the Investigating Officer

deposed that on 27.07.17 while he was working as Incharge Bidyapur
Contd...
(7)
Out Post, the informant lodged the FIR before the Out Post alleging that
on 25.7.2017 at around 10.00 PM accused Kolin Nath entering into his
house committed sexual assault to his minor daughter. On receipt of the
FIR, he made the G.D. entry and sending the FIR to O/C, Bongaigaon
Police Station started investigation of the case. In course of investigation
he visited the place of occurrence, prepared the sketch map of the Place
of occurrence vdie Ext.5, seized the birth certificate of the victim vide
Seizure list Ext 2, recorded the statement of the victim alongwith other
witnesses, got recorded the statement of the victim U/S 164 CrPC, sent
her for medical examination and submitted charge-sheet against the
accused U/S 8 of POCSO Act. During cross he stated that though in the
FIR it is alleged that the door was broken but only found the bended

eldrop.

18. PW 10 Dr. Minakshi Kalita, the Medical Officer
examined the victim on 29.07.17 at 1:20 PM and found as follows:-

Findings:- The brief history of sexual intercourse on

25.7.2017.
LMP- About 20 days back.
Dentition-- 14
14
No injury mark is seen on her body and private
parts.

Per vaginal examination — Hymen absent. Vagina

admits two fingers easily.
Vaginal swab shows no spermatozoa.

Urine for pregnancy — Positive.

Contd....
(8)
X-ray of long bones to determine the age shows age

is above 17 years and below 20 years.

The doctor opined that it could not be ascertained
whether the victim was raped or not. The medical officer proved the
report as Ext.7 and the pregnancy test report as Ext 8/ During cross-
examination she stated that if the last menstruation period is 20 days
back, there is less chance of pregnancy test to be positive. She stated that

the victim might be 19 years 11 months at the time of examination.

19. In this case, the core witness, the victim in her
evidence stated that she had love affairs with the accused who married
her cousin sister. According to her on the night of incident accused
coming to the window of her room called her to which she opened the
door. Then, the accused entered into her room and while she was talking
with accused Kolin Nath, her brother, PW 3 hearing sound, came out and
closed the door from outside. She also stated that PW 3 after closing the
door called their father and then accused by pushing the door bended the
bolt and went out from her room, but when her father asked her as to
who came she said nothing and on next day on being called when the
members of Mahila Samittee came, then she admitted that accused Kolin

Nath did have sexual intercourse with her. She clearly admitted that out

\
y % of love she did have sexual intercourse with the accused willingly and
Me ents the accused did not force her in any way. According to victim, at the
cae time of incident she was 19 years old.
20. PW 1 her father and PW 7 the grand mother of the

victim also categorically stated that at the time of incident victim was 19

Contd....
wD
oF

gpect® 53300
pons

(9)
years old. As per birth certificate, M.Ext 1 the date of birth of the victim
was 10.2.2003, so on the date of incident i.e 25.7.2017 she was 14 years
5 months 15 days old. But her father during cross- examination admitted
that the birth was registered in the year 2011 i.e after 8 years of her birth.
The victim’s father admitted that at the time of obtaining birth certificate,
he entered her age less than her actual age. As per medical examination

also she is above 17 years and below 20 years.

21. In the above facts and circumstances of the case,
when the informant, the father of the victim who is the best person to
know the actual date of birth of his child, it can not be accepted that she
was 14 years old at the relevant time. Victim’s father during cross-
examination stated that he married 22 years back and after 2 years, the
victim his eldest child was born. On that count also she was above 18
years at the time of incident. All other PWs including the victim
categorically stated that the victim was above 18 years at that time. The
oral evidence particularly the evidence of the victim and her father
coupled with the medical evidence, clearly indicates that the victim was
above 18 years at the relevant time and she was not a child. Thus, it does

not attract offence under POCSO Act.

22. Regarding allegation of rape it is in the evidence
that accused married the cousin sister of the victim. So she knew well
that the accused is a married one. The victim in her evidence admitted
her love affairs with the accused who is her relative being brother-in-law
and on her own accord she did have physical relation with him. The
medical evidence also shows hymen absent, vagina admits two fingers
Contd....
(10)
easily. The medical examination done on 29.7.2017 ie after four days
of the alleged incident gave positive result for pregnancy test. As per
history, last menstruation was 20 days back and as per medical officer, if
last menstruation is 20 days back there is less chance of pregnancy test
to be positive. The alleged incident occurred on 25.7.2017 i.e 4 days
back from the date of examination. Considering the medical evidence,
even it is accepted that she was pregnant on the day of incident, it was
for maintaining physical relation on earlier occasions. However the
victim remains silent regarding carrying pregnancy. Further, in absence
of any evidence of threat or inducement, the evidence of the father of the
victim, i.e PW 1 that the victim told that the accused came and was with
her shows that she submitted herself in having sexual intercourse, if any.
Thus, it reveals that she was a consenting party in having sexual act with

the accused. This is a case of promiscuity.

23. In view of the above, since the victim being a major
one was a consenting party in having physical relation, if any, the

ingredients of offence U/S 376 IPC would also not be attracted.

24, For the foregoing discussions, I am of the view that
the prosecution has failed to establish the charge against the accused
Kolin Nath U/S 4 of POCSO Act or of offence U/S 376 IPC. He is
entitled to benefit of doubt. Accordingly, accused Kolin Nath is
acquitted and set him at liberty forthwith. His bail bond shall remain in
force till next six months.

Contd....
(11)

25. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on the

th
28" day of August, 2018. a
Ly.

(I. Barman)
Special Judge , ot.
Dictated and corrected by me, Bones”

Iss

(I. Bar nar) nt Tes
cis? seve

Bongaigaon.

'

Contd.....
(12)

APPENDIX

 

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Father of the victim.

PW 2 — Victim.

PW 3 - Brother of the victim.

PW 4 - Nirmala Nath.

PW 5 — Dalim Ch Nath.

PW 6 — Abdus Sobahan Ahmed.
PW 7 — Grand mother of the victim.
PW 8 — Jyotima Nath.

PW 9-Ajoy Kr Saha, (I.O).

PW 10-Dr Minakshi Kalita, (M.O).

 

Defence Witness:
Nil.

Documents Exhibited by Prosecution:
Ext-1 Ejahar.

Ext-2 Seizure list.

Ext-3 Statement of the victim U/S 164 CrP.C.
Ext-4 Birth registration book for the year 2011.
Ext-5 Sketch map.

Ext-6 Charge-sheet.

Material Exhibited by prosecution:

M.Ext 1 — Birth certificate of the victim.

Defence Exhibit: y gn
Nil. ak
(I. Barman )

‘Piebageon
n ‘4 3
