‘IN THE SPECIAL COURT, BAKSA seeeeeeeasaeatecatesatesssessanseateeeeente ee: AT MUSHALPUR

j
4

>” Present: Shri C. Das
wo

 

Judge, Special Court
Baksa, Mushalpur

MENT IN SP Cc SE NO.1 1 NO.8/17 0.27/1
u/s 4 of POCSO Act
State
-versus-

Sri Dhiren Boro

.... Accused

Appearance :
FortheState :MrR. Chetry, Public Prosecutor, Baksa
For the accused : Mr. A. Boro, B. C. Boro, Ms. A. Rabha, R. Goyary, Advocates

Dates of evidence recorded : 5.7.1 7, 20.9.18, 16.11.18, 17.1.1 9, 232,19,

 

2.5.19
Date of argument :21.8.19
Date of judgment :4.9.19
JUDGMENT
1. The case of the Prosecution briefly, is that on 3.9.15, the

complainant Sri Narayan Choudhury lodged a FIR before the In-charge of Suwagpur
police out-post, alleging inter-alias that on 1.9.15, at about 3 pm., the accused by
inducement, called his minor daughter/ victim girl (name withheld) and committed
sexual intercourse with her.

Judge Sp: Cour

Saksa Mushak ‘ 2. The police accordingly, lodged the Suwagpur GDE No.54 dated
3.9.15 and forwarded the FIR to the Goreswar police station to register a formal
case. Therefore, the Officer-in-charge of Goreswar police station registered the
case No.99/15 and started the investigation. During the investigation, I/O visited

the place of occurrence, drew up its sketch map and examined the witnesses
_—
ga
at . Tay
: i
gS 4
2 2 eee
c . #
Ny es r
NG oy
Ya, 8845
—>
id on.
sage ©Pi Court
“4 ~~ 2. *

including the complainant and the victim girl. The 1/O sent the victim girl for
medical examination and seized the cloths of the victim. The I/O arrested the
accused. At the end of the investigation, 1/O having found a prima-facie case well
established, submitted the charge-sheet against the accused to face trial in the
court,

3. The accused appeared in the court after receipt of summons and as
such, copy of the case was Furnished to him immediately. After hearing of both the
sides and on perusal of material on record, the charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act was
framed against the accused. The charge so framed, was read over and explained to

the accused, who pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4, The prosecution during the trial, examined as many as, six(6)
witnesses including M/O and 1/O to support its case. In the statement recorded u/s
313 CrPC., the accused denied all incriminating circumstances appeared against him
in the evidence. The argument of the parties was heard at length and perused the
evidence on record.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION :

5. Whether on 1.9.15, at about 3 pm., at village- Bornoddipar under
Goreswar police station, the accused committed penetrative sexual assault upon
the victim girl (name withheld) the minor daughter of the informant Sri Narayan
Choudhury ;

ICISION A E N THER E:

6. At the outset, learned Public Prosecutor submitted in the argument
that those witnesses who were examined in the case, corroborated each other on
material for which the evidence of the victim girl cannot be disbelieve. There is lack
of medical evidence to corroborate the version of the victim but that does not
mean that the victim tendered False evidence against the accused since the victim
cannot be treated as an accomplice. He further submitted that it is a settled rule of
law now, the sole testimony of victim can be based of a conviction order against the
accused in case of sexual offence. Since the Prosecution witnesses have able to
bring home the charge, the accused is liable to be punished as per law, he
submitted.
 

Judg aS Court
Saksa Mushalpur

7. Per contra, learned counsel for the accused submitted that the
evidence of the prosecution witnesses are contradictory to each other. From their
evidence, it is not clear if the accused committed sexual offence or attempted to
commit it inasmuch as, the victim was the consenting party to the occurrence. He
submitted further that the accused and the victim were known to each other and
had some gossip with each other but without bad intention. However, PW3 made it
vulgar act or colour to it. It is his submission that there was nothing ill-act or sexual
intercourse took place between the accused and the victim for which medical
evidence does not lend Support it. Therefore, the evidence of the prosecution
could not prove the case beyond all shadow of doubt and as such, the accused is
entitled to be acquitted, he maintained.

8. After perusing the evidence on record, it appears that the
occurrence took place at the side of river bank during day broad light. The
Prosecution examined the complainant Sri Narayan Choudhury who is the Father of
the victim girl as PW2. He deposed that on the fateful day at about 3.30 pm., the
victim girl with her friend Ms. Bidang Boro went to river side. Earlier, the accused
collected mobile phone number of the victim girl which was not known to him.
When the victim girl reached the river bank, the accused called the victim over
phone to know her whereabout. The victim informed the accused about her
location and as such, the accused went to bank of river. The accused kept aside the
friend of the victim girl, took her towards jungle forcibly. Hence, the victim raised
hue and cry. As such one Sukram Boro(PW3) rushed to the spot and saw the
incident and tried to prevent the accused from doing Forceful intercourse with the
victim. PW3 brought back the victim to his house. So he called a village meeting.
But the accused did not allow to hold the meeting. Hence, he went to police station
to lodge the FIR. The police sent the victim girl For medical examination. He filed
the FIR vide Ext.2 with his signature. The police seized the wearing cloths of the
victim vide Ext.3 with his signature. Ext.4 is the medical report of the victim with his
signature.

9. In the cross-examination, PW2 stated that PW3 reported him about
the incident. The local meeting was held after one day of the offence where several
villagers were present. The victim girl informed him that the accused called Bidang
Boro to river side. There was nobody present at the river bank at the relevant time.
He stated that the victim was 14 years of age at the time of occurrence but he did
not submit the birth certificate of the victim to the police, Apparently, PW2 is not
an eye-witness of the occurrence.
 

JudgeSo: Cour
Bakes Mushal:

10. PW1 is the victim girl. Her name is withheld. She is the daughter of
PW2. She stated that she was in class-VII] at the time of occurrence. She deposed
Further that on the fateful day at about 2 pm., she went to river bank. The accused
called her to come there. He called her near to water by holding her hand.
Thereafter, the accused laid her down on the ground. The accused committed
sexual intercourse with by opening her panties. The accused was wearing a long
pant and he opened the chain and committed the intercourse with her. She raised
shouting. She also, ran away. The accused raped her but could not complete the
intercourse with her. The accused called her to come to watch water by phone. Due
to her alarm, PW3 saw her. PW3 escorted her to her home. The accused Fled away.
She gave her statement vide Ext.1 with her signatures.

11. In the cross-examination, PW1 stated that she could not recollect
the date of occurrence. The FIR was written as per her dictation. A local meeting
was held after the occurrence. She admitted that the accused was wearing long
pant and he opened the chain to the police earlier since it was not asked to her. She
reported the incident First to her mother. PW3 and Bidang did not see the incident.
When the accused pulled her, Bidang left far away from her. Apparently, PW1
narrated the incident to implicate the accused.

12. But PW3 does not corroborate the version of PW1. It is the evidence
of PW3 Sri Sukram Basumatary is that on the fateful day at about 2/3 pm., he went
to river side. He saw two girls in the jungle. He also, saw the accused Followed the
girls. The accused committed sexual intercourse with the victim girl. He went near
the accused and abused him for such act with the victim. The accused denied his
allegation. Having seen his presence at the spot, two girls fled away there from.
Subsequently, he came across with the victim and inquired her about her address.
He came to know that the victim is the daughter of PW2. He handed over the victim
to her parents. He reported the incident to PW2. On next day, police visited the
place of occurrence.

13. In the cross-examination, PW3 stated that the victim went to the
spot with the accused. Thus, the evidence of Pw3 contradicts the version of PW1.

14. PW4 Dr. Dolly Gogoi deposed that on 4.9.15 at SMK civil hospital,
Nalbari, she examined the victim(PW1) in connection with the case and found that
no external injury found. No injury on genitalia parts. Hymen was torn. No fresh
injury. Investigation advised for vaginal smear for sperm and x-ray for age
 

Judge Sov Coup
i@ksa Mushalpir

determination. Report - skeletal age from radiological evidence, is estimated below
18 years and above 16 years. Vaginal smear- no sperm seen. She submitted the
report vide Ext.4 with her signature. Thus, the medical evidence does not
corroborate the version of PW1. There is no dispute over Finding of PW4 on the
victim girl.

15. PWS Smti. Rupamani Kalita deposed that she was posted at
Goreswar police station at the relevant time. On the fateful day, the parents of the
victim girl brought her to the police station with the allegation that the accused
committed rape on the victim girl. The police seized the wearing cloths of the
victim girl vide Ext.3 with her signature. There is no dispute over the evidence of
PWS. Apparently, PWS is an official witness of the occurrence. Hence, it appears
that the wearing cloths of the victim girl was seized by 1/O but no such FSL report
regarding examination of such cloths of the victim, is submitted in the case by the
Prosecution.

16. The evidence of I/O of the case (PW6) is that on 3.9.15, he received
the FIR from the informant and accordingly, he lodged a GDE at his out -post and
forwarded the FIR to Goreswar police station for register of a formal Case.
Thereafter, he went to the place of occurrence and examined the witnesses, The
accused surrendered before the Goreswar police station and accordingly, he
arrested the accused. He examined the victim girl and sent her for medical
examination and for recording her statement u/s 164 CrPC. The Officer-in-charge of
Goreswar police station registered the case no.99/15 and endorsed him for
investigation. He Prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence vide Ext.5
with his signature. He seized the wearing cloths of the victim girl vide Ext.3 with his
signature. His next I/O collected the medical report of the victim and filed charge-
sheet against the accused vide Ext.6 with the signature.

17. In the cross-examination, I/O stated that Pw2 did not submit any
explanation regarding delay in Filing the FIR. He had shown 8 tree in Ext.5 but no
person resided near the tree.

18. Thus, from the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, it appears
that the occurrence was taken place near the river bank. Fro the version of 1/O, it
appears that the place of occurrence was secluded place. The evidence of PW1 is
corroborated by PW2 who is the Father of PW1. But PW2 was not present at the
 

id & ¢
Jud: . pr Court

ekea Mus} Nalpur the claim of PW1 that she was raped by the accused is not corroborated by medical

place of occurrence and his evidence is not direct. His version is come from the
report of PW1. On the other hand, PW3 was present at the place of occurrence. If
the evidence of PW1 is carefully perused, it appears that she alleged that she was
accompanied by her Friend Bidong Boro. But the prosecution failed to examine such
important witness of the occurrence. Such girl would corroborate the claim of PW1
and actual incident between the accused and PW1. No reason is cited by the
prosecution. Hence, due to withheld of such girl namely; Bidong Boro, an adverse
presumption is drawn against the prosecution u/s 114 [ Illustration-(g)] of Evidence
Act, that if such important witness like Bidong Boro was examined, she would have
deposed unfavourably to the prosecution case. Therefore, such presumption

shakes the veracity of the prosecution case.

19. IC appears that Finding of medical expert is not in dispute between
the parties. It shows from the medical evidence that PW1 was below 18 years but
above 16 years. Therefore, in any view, the age of PW1 is below 18 years and as
such, she is a child within the meaning of Section 2(d) of POCSO Act.

20. Besides above, the evidence of PW1 discloses that she was called by
the accused to the river bank and took her by holding her hand. But PW3
contradicts such version of PW1 that he saw two girls were moving in the jungle
area and the accused followed them. The evidence of PW3 shows that the
occurrence was taken place inside of jungle area. Thus, the claim of PW1 that the
occurrence took place near river bank is not correct. PW1 stated that she raised
shouting when the accused committed sexual intercourse with her when PW3 came
nearby. But PW3 never stated that he heard any shouting of PW1 before arriving at
the spot. According to the version of PW3, there was no force used by the accused.
Further, the version of PW3 shows that having seen him at the spot, the victim and
other girl fled away. This means that other girl was present near PW1 at the
relevant time. But PW1 stated that other girl was kept aside by the accused. Thus, it
contradictory to the version of PW1 with PW3. It seems that PW1 conceals some
real facts of the incident. The version of PW3 shows that there was some
understanding between the accused with her prior to the occurrence. Apparently,

the version of PW1 does not inspire confidence to rely upon her version. Moreover,

evidence. The witnesses of the prosecution could not tender consistent evidence as
to the occurrence to credit their trust worthiness.

21. The prosecution alleged that the accused committed penetrative
 

/
Y =
\ gp sexual assault on PW1 which is defined u/s 3 of POCSO Act. The offence of
ee --“_ penetrative sexual assault is defined that a person is said to commit “penetrative
sexual assault” if -

(a) he penetrates his penis to any extent into the vagina, mouth, urethra or
anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person;
or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the
penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the child
to do so with him or any other person: or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of the body of the
child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the child or

makes the child to do so to such person or any other person.

22. From the above provisions of law makes it clear that penetration of
own penis, or any other object to any extent into the vagina, urethra, anus of a child
or his/ her body or manipulation of such parts of the child or applies mouth into the
such parts of the child by the accused or any other persons or to do same act by the
child to him or any other person, is sufficient to constitute the offence. In the
instant case, PW1 and 3 as well as supported by PW2 that the accused committed
penetrative sexual assault upon PW1. It is even come From the evidence of PW1
that the such assault was not completed by the accused and during the middle, she
ran away. But PW3 stated that due to his presence, PW3 ran away with her Friend
From the scene. IF there was some penetration, then, PW1 would suffer some injury
or mark on her private part. But the medical evidence most importantly does not
Find any injury on the person of PW1. Moreover, the wearing cloths of PW1 was not
sent for FSL examination by I/O which is a serious lapse of the investigation. If there
was FSL report for the cloths seized by 1/0 vide Ext.3, it could have drawn an
inference of penetration by the accused into the vagina of PW1. But absence of the
same, tenders the evidence of PW1 unreliable. Hence, there is doubt over the
version of the prosecution witnesses regarding such offence committed by the
JdudgeSp: Court accused.
Saksa Mushalour

23. That apart, the provisions of Section 30 of POCSO Act allows the
court to draw presumption of culpable mental state of the accused which defines
that (1) in any prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume the

eg S$
    
 

 
  

A yaltict @ ¢

2

- Dag t
£° PT a
~ J & Lan t

eS nll

“

existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove
the Fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an
offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when the Special
Court believes to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence

is established by a preponderance of probability.

24. From the evidence of PW1, it appears that she knew the accused
prior to the occurrence since she had conversation with the accused over mobile
phone. Her evidence shows that she went with her friend to the place of
occurrence at the call of the accused. Had there been no understanding between
PW1 and the accused, PW1 would not go to the spot. It appears that prior to the
occurrence, both PW1 used to meet the accused at such place but on the fateful
day, PW3 caught them red-handed and as such, PW1 ran away due to presence of
Pw3 at the spot. Having considered the above fact, it does not appear any
phenomenon to presume the culpability of mental state of the accused to commit
such offence against PW1. Apparently, major contradictions appears in the
evidence of the prosecution witnesses and there is also, lapse in the investigation
to cover up some vital Facts does not come into light. Hence, the evidence of the
PW1 is not at all reliable to believe to any presumption of any culpability of mental
state against the accused to commit the offence.

25. It is correct to say that there is delay of 2 days in lodging the FIR vide
Ext.2 by PW2. The occurrence took place on 1.9.15 while FIR was lodged on 3.9.15
after two day. It is expected in law that the FIR of an offense should be filed
immediately to avoid any embellishment or colourful exercise of mind as well as, to
Facilitate quick start of investigation by the police. IF there is delay in lodging the
FIR, then, an explanation of delay ought to be furnished to ascertain its
genuineness. Unless such explanation come from the informant, the genuineness
of it looks under doubt. But in the instant case, PW2 explained the delay that he
called a village meeting immediately after the incident. But due to obstruction of
the accused, he filed the ejahar before the police. This means that PW2 waited for a

dudee Sp: Court result or decision From the meeting which was not allowed to hold by the accused,

saksa Mushalorrtt is common in rural area to call for such village meeting before approaching to the

police. PW2 is from village back ground. Hence, calling such village meeting for a
settlement locally was expected by him which took time as well as, obstruction of
the accused. Therefore, it appears that the delay in lodging the FIR is duly
explained by PW2. Even then, the evidence of vital witnesses like PW1 and 3 is
 

9

4
"J found to be not credit worthy to rely upon. Therefore, the accused is entitled to get

benefit of doubt. Accordingly, the accused is given the benefit of doubt.

26. Under the above facts and circumstances of the case, the
Prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt. Accordingly, the accused is held not guilty u/s 4 of POCSO Act. The accused
is thus, acquitted and set at liberty. The bail bond of the accused shall remain in
Force u/s 437-A CrPC for another 6 months from today. The seized articles shall be
destroyed. Foward a copy of judgment to the District Magistrate, Baksa, Mushalpur
u/s 365 CrPC. The victim is entitled to get compensation u/s 357 CrPC. Hence, this
court recommends payment of such compensation by DLSA, Baksa district.

27. Given under the hand and seal of this court on this 4% day of
September 2019,

Dictated and corrected by:

C. Das, ~

‘age Reset ‘wdaeSeelaccaurt
Baksa, Mushalpur “Baksa, Musbelaur. .

Typed by :
P. Deka, Com. Typist
Ge

oe
ok m
o

>
~

fs,

 

f
- ANNEXURE ;

10

List of prosecution witness:

PW1 ... victim girl (name is withheld)
PW2 ... Sri Narayan Choudhury ... complainant
PW3 ... Sri Sukram Basumatray
PW4 ... Dr. Dolly Gogoi .. m/o
PWS ... Smti. Rupamoni Kalita
PW6 ... Sri Naren Bora ... i/o

f defence wit
Nil

ist of ments exhibit

Ext.1 ... statement of victim u/s 164 CrPC
Ext.2 ... FIR
Ext.3 ... seizure list
Ext.4 ... medical report
EXxt.5 ... sketch map
Ext.6 ... charge-sheet

Justis Speciah Court I 5, I
3 Bree. Mushalaur
