 

ial (P N
U/S - 366(A) of the IPC r.w. Sec. 4/8 of POCSO Act.

State

- Versus -
Rakesh Debnath &
Santosh Roy e__s«a.. sss. Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.

For the accused persons :- Sri N.H. Barbhuiya, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidence :- 05.12.2017 & 03.01.2018.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC ‘- 04.01.2018.

Date of Argument -- 04.01.2018.

Date of Judgment :- 04.01.2018.
D NT

The prosecution case, in brief, is that on

15.09.2017 the informant Smti. Shuvra Malakar lodged an ejahar

yes with the O/C, Hailakandi Police Stating alleging that on 14.9.2017

ns % in the evening at about 3 PM the accused persons Rakesh
3

A Debnath and Santosh Roy kidnapped her minor daughters i.e. the
3 wy victims of this case. Contd...P/2.
Special (POCSO) (T 2) Case No. 15/2017

i
a: On receipt of the ejahar, a case vide Hailakandi
P.S. Case No. 581/2017 was registered under Sec. 366/34 of IPC
and accordingly, police started investigation of the case.

3. During investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, recorded statements of witnesses including the
informant, got both the victims medically examined and also got
their statements recorded by the Magistrate and after
completion of investigation having been found prima facie case
laid the charge sheet against the accused persons Rakesh
Debnath and Santosh Roy under Sec. 366/34 of IPC read with
Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

4, On appearance of accused persons, copies of
relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were
furnished to them.

a After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the
Ld. Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on
record, having found sufficient grounds for presuming that the
accused persons have committed the offence, the formal
charges have been framed against the accused persons Rakesh
Debnath and Santosh Roy under Sec. 366(A) of the IPC read with
Sec. 4/8 of the POCSO Act. The charges so framed were read over
and explained to the accused persons, to which they pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

on

In the instant case, the prosecution has
examined only both the victims and their mother, the informant
of the case. Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public Prosecutor
and the Ld. Defence Counsel, the prosecution evidence was

Contd....P/3.
a

closed. The accused persons are examined under Sec. 313,
CrPC, wherein they have denied the allegations levelled against
them by the prosecution. The defence did not adduce any
evidence.

dV Heard argument of both sides. Perused the
record.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(I) Whether the accused persons on 14.09.2017
in the evening at about 3 PM kidnapped both the victims with
intent that they might be compelled or knowing it to be likely
that they would be compelled to marry against their will or that
they might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, as alleged ?

(ii)Whether the accused persons after
kidnapping the victims committed penetrative sexual assault and
other sexual activities up on them, as alleged ?

DI 10 EASONS AND DECISION TH E :-

8. The PW. 1, Smti. Shubra Malakar, the mother of
both the victims i.e. the informant, has deposed that about2
days before the last Durga Puja, she went to the house of her
neighbour keeping her daughters in the house but after her
return at home, she did not find them in the house. Accordingly,
she made vigorous search but did not find them and thereafter,
she lodged the ejahar of the case. This witness has also deposed
that the accused persons used to take her daughters for roaming
and as such, out of suspect, she lodged the ejahar implicating
the accused persons. On the next day in the evening, her
daughters returned home. She has also exhibited Ext. 1, ejahar

Contd....P/4.
Special (POCSO) (T 2) Case No. 15/2017
oe
and her signatures therein under Exts. 1(1) and 1(2).

In the cross examination, the PW. 1 has stated
that she has got no accusation against the accused persons.

9. The PW. 2, Smti. Sharda Malakar @ Payel
Malakar has deposed that on the last Durga Puja, herself and her
sister Pouja Malakar went to their maternal aunt's house at
Silchar without informing their parents and the accused persons
helped them to reach there, wherein they stayed for 2 days and
as such, their mother filed the case out of suspect against the
accused persons. This witness has also deposed that she made
statement before the Magistrate vide Ext. 2 and Exts. 2(1) and
2(2) are her signatures.

In cross examination, this witness has deposed
that she made the statement before the Magistrate on being
tutored by her family members and she has got no objection if
the accused persons are acquitted.

10. The PW. 3, Smti. Puja Malakar has deposed that
on the last Durga Puja, herself and her sister went to Silchar
without informing their parents and the accused persons
accompanied them there and as such, her mother lodged the
case against the accused persons out of suspect. She has also
exhibited her statement made before the Magistrate under Ext. 3
and her signatures under Exts. 3(1) and 3(2).

In cross examination, the PW. 3 has deposed
that on being influenced, she made statement before the
Magistrate. She has further deposed that the accused persons
being their neighbour accompanied them to Silchar.

Contd.....P/5.
ial (P AZ

_

a3. Here in this case, only the victims and their
mother, the informant have been examined. The informant, PW.
1, in her evidence has clearly stated that finding her daughters,
the victims, in the house, not available, she lodged the case
against the accused persons out of suspect as the accused
persons used to take her daughters for roaming.

12. The victims, who are the most important
witnesses to decide the fate of the case, in their evidence have
vividly stated that on the relevant day she went to Silchar
without informing their parents and the accused persons being
neighbour accompanied them and as their mother did not find
them in the house, she lodged the ejahar, rather the victims as
well as the informant have clearly divulged in their cross
examination that they have got no objection if the accused
persons are acquitted. When the victims of the case, whose
evidence bears much significance, have not supported the
prosecution case implicating the accused persons, there is
nothing remained to create any doubt that the accused persons
committed the alleged crime. Moreover, though in their
statement made before Magistrate, the victims implicated the
accused with the commission of the alleged crime but in their
evidence before this Court, both the victims have vividly divulged
that on being tutored, they made the statements before the
Magistrate. As such, keeping in view the evidence of victims, |
do not find any concrete reason to hold the accused persons
guilty for the commission of the crime, alleged. Accordingly, |
find it appropriate to acquit the accused persons Rakesh
Debnath and Santosh Roy, who have been charged under Sec.

Contd...P/6.
Special (POCSO) (T 2) Case No. 15/2017
win
366(A)of the IPC read with Sec. 4/8 of the POCSO Act.

13. In fine, the accused persons Rakesh Debnath
and Santosh Roy are acquitted of the charges levelled against
them and they are set at liberty forthwith.

14. The bail bonds of the accused persons stand
discharged.

a5: Send a copy of this judgment to the District
Magistrate, Hailakandi.

16. The Sessions Case is disposed of accordingly.
Lf. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the

open Court under the seal of this Court and on my signature on
this 4th day of January,2018.

bee

Dictated and corrected by me :- HAILAKAND!

 

Contd....P/7.
ial (POCS La N
i %

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, Smti. Shuvra Malakar,

PW. 2, Smti. Sharada Malakar @ Payel Malakar,
PW.3, Smti. Puja Malakar.

Documentary evidences :-

Ext. 1- Ejahar,

Ext. 2- Statement of victim Smti. Sarada Malakar,
Ext. 3- Statement of the victim Smti. Puja Malakar.

Defence did not adduce any evidence. vw .

   

[AL JUDGB
SPEC -
