Page 1 of 15

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR

SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 57 of 2017
Under section 4 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of G. R Case No. 3552 of 2017)

State of Assam

—Vs—
Md. Inamul Hussain @ Inamul Mandal ... Accused Person

Present: SmtiI. Barman, AJS
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State : MteM.CaBaruah, Public Prosecutor
And.Mr.iN. Misra, Addl. P.P.

For the accused : “Mr. Chiranjit Pradhan, Advocate
Date of Argument : 04-02-2019
Date of Judgment : 18-02-2019.
JUDGMENT
TY The prosecution case against the accused person as projected in

the FIR (Ext. 1), in brief, is that on 10-09-2017 at around 10:30 p.m. when
the informant’s 16 years old victim daughter was sleeping with a irl,
accused Inamul Mandal who had love affairs with the victim, took her to his
house and committed her rape which was informed by the girl sleeping with
the victim over phone No. 8486790116. In the incident, the accused was
caught red handed by one Monowara Khatoon but on raising hullah when

the villagers came there, the accused fled away therefrom.

 
Page 2 of 15

2. On receipt the ejahar from the informant (PW 1), the O/C Sootea
PS registered the case on 15-09-2017 vide Sootea P.S. Case No. 125/17 u/s
4 of POCSO Act. During investigation, the Investigating Officer (PW 8)
recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical
examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on completion
of investigation having found materials submitted chargesheet against the
accused Md. Inamul Mandal u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

ae On being appeared the accused person before this Court, “ny
learned predecessor, after hearing both parties, framed charge. u/s 4 of
POCSO Act against the accused Md. Inamul Hussain @ Inamul Mandal and
particulars of the charge on being read over and explained, to, the accused

person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as nine
number of witnesses. In statement recorded ‘u/s 313 Cr.P.C, the accused
denied all the allegations leveled againstyhim and taking the plea of total
denial, examined two witnesses.

5. I have also heard the ‘argument of learned counsel of both sides

and also have gone through, the evidence on record.
6. The point fordecision in this case is that -

(1)." Whether the accused Md. Inamul Hussain @ Inamul Mandal on
10-09-2017 at around 10.30 p.m. at village Koroiyani No. 2 Adaveti under
Sootea Police Station committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim
Miss "X” and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 4 of
POCSO Act.

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

7. In order to appreciate the argument advanced on behalf of both

the sides, it is considered next to outline a sketch of the evidence on record.

8. PW 1, the informant as well as the father of the victim. He
deposed that on the night at around 11 p.m. when he got up, noticing the
door of the room open, where his victim daughter was sleeping with his
wife’s niece, he entered into the room and in the light of torch though had

 
Page 3 of 15

seen the niece upon the bed but had not found his daughter. Then on being
enquired his niece whereabout of his daughter, she replied that she was in
deep sleep. Then he informed the matter to the maternal uncle(PW 2) of his
daughter who resided in a different house of the same compound. They all
searched for the victim and during that time one villager informed them that
somebody had gone through their village in the night. Then on suspicion he
along with his wife, PW 2’s wife and one another woman proceeded to ‘the
house of the accused in search of the victim and calling accused’s father
when they enquired about the victim, the father of the accused\scolded
them. Thereafter, his wife and aunty of the victim went inside the house and
found the accused with the victim in a compromising position.“@n the next
day morning he along with police went there and brought back the victim
home, but before arrival of the police, accusedefled. away. Then he lodged
the FIR, Ext.1. He further stated that after recoveryp~the victim reported him

that the accused had taken her forcefully and committed misdeed to her.

During cross, he stated thatyat the time of birth of the victim,
they were in Dimapur, Nagaland, Again he stated that the victim was born in
Sibsagar but the birth certificate of the victim was obtained from Dimapur.
He cannot say the exact age® of the victim daughter. He admitted that
though the birth..certificate of the victim was at home but he had not
submitted thessame to,the police. He further stated that his victim daughter
was admitted, at Dimapur Don Bosco HS School in class A when she was 7
years“old‘and she read there upto class V but after coming from Dimapur, he
did‘not admit his daughter in school for almost one year. He further stated
thatsthe house of the accused is situated just five minutes walking distance
from his house and they reached the house of the accused at about 11.30
p.m. He also admitted that they proposed the accused and his family
members to marry his daughter and had the accused married his daughter,
he would not file the case. He admitted that lateron he came to know about
love affairs between the accused and the victim. He admitted that in the
FIR he mentioned that he came to know about the incident from the niece of
his wife who on that night was sleeping with the victim and the cell number

written in the FIR belongs to the said niece.

 
Page 4 of 15

9. PW 2, the uncle of the victim, deposed that on the day of
incident, at around 11 p.m., the informant and his wife calling him informed
that their victim daughter is missing from bed. At that time one person
informed the mother of the victim that the victim went with a boy. Then, on
suspicion he along with his wife and victim’s mother went to the house of
the accused in search of the victim and on calling the father of the accused
when asked whereabout of the victim, he had shown a separate room ‘but
they find none there. At that time his wife and victim’s mother finding he
victim along with the accused in a room in indecent condition, «brought.out
the victim. Then on calling, village headmen, Md. Majid Ali, Md. Madan Ali,
Md. Taher Ali came and said that the father of the .accused™would pay
money and asked them (PW2) to give marriage of the girl to someone but
they did not agree. He further stated that aften.about 20 days, police sent

the victim for medical examination.

During cross, he stated that,he cannot say the date of birth of
the victim. He further stated that) since 10/11 years last prior to his
marriage, he and the informant, resided in the same campus. He further
stated that he called the headmen of the village to give marriage of the
victim to the accused’ but, headmen asked to settle the matter by paying
money to the victim's father. He further stated that he did not find the victim

in indecent condition:

10. PWe3, the mother of the victim, testified that on the day of
incident, the,accused took her daughter, aged about 16 years, to his house
and committed her rape there. She further stated that in course of search,
they recovered the girl from the house of the accused Inamul Mandal. She
stated that though at first the family members of the accused denied the
existence of the victim in their house but lateron they found the victim in the

house of the accused and then her husband lodged the FIR.

During cross, she stated that the victim was born at Koroiyani,
Sootea and after birth of the victim they have been shifted to Sibsagar for
three years wherefrom they again shifted to Koroiyani, Sootea and then to

Dimapur where victim was admitted at Don Bosco School at class A when

 
Page 5 of 15

she was 7 years old. She admitted that they obtained the birth certificate of
the victim from Dimapur by showing her age as five years, as the school
authority refused to get her admission at 7 years. She denied her knowledge
regarding love affairs between the accused and the victim. She stated that
on the night at 11/11.30 p.m., her niece informed them that the victim was
missing from bed and Salimuddin informed them that one boy holding hand
of the victim was going on foot and entered into the house of the accused.
Then she along with victim’s uncle and aunty and her husband went tothe
house of the accused and on calling the victim by her name repeatedlyjthe
accused's father came out and asked not to disturb them and “that her
(PW’s) daughter is not in his house. The victim did not come‘outeand silently
remained in the house of the accused. She also stated\that in presence of
villagers and neighbours, they proposed to thesaceused’s parents to marry
the victim to the accused but they refused. Thereafter, the FIR was filed
with Sootea Police station. She stated that in‘the next morning police took
the victim to the police station and ‘at about 12 noon she was taken to
Biswanath Civil Hospital for medicahexamination. Thereafter again the victim
was taken to JK CT Scan & Xray and after about one week the statement of

the victim was recorded_u/s,164 Cr.P.C

11. PW 4, Monowera Khatoon, the neighbour of the informant,
deposed thatson\theaday of incident at 12 mid night finding the victim
missing fromehome, when she along with PW 1, PW 2, and PW 3 searched
the victimpethey met one person namely Salimuddin who informed them that
thevaccused taking the victim, entered into his (accused) house. At first two
male. persons entered into the house of the accused, but the father of the
accused denied the existence of the victim in his house. Then she along with
PW 3 entered into his house and found the accused in his room with the
victim in naked condition. They found the “churni” and half pant of the

victim in the room.

In cross, she stated that 15 years back she married with PW 2.
When victim can walk and run and since then they are residing in the same

campus with the informant. She stated that after recovery of the victim, she

 
Page 6 of 15

did not tell that she was aware about their presence at the house of the
accused and when the mother of the accused knocked the door of the room
of the accused, the door opened automatically and they found the victim and
the accused. She further stated that seeing them, victim put Paijama
keeping the panty in the bed and accused also put on his clothes
immediately. Then they proposed to marry the victim to the accused but the

accused's family did not agree, hence, thereafter, FIR was lodged.

12. PW 5 is the victim herself. She deposed that on the™nightyat
around 10.30 p.m. accused making a call, asked her to comesinfront of her
house for conversation but as she refused due to night, aceused again called
her from the front side of gate of her house. Then sheopeningsthe door had
seen the accused but at that time the accused took her to his room
forcefully and committed her rape. Though at first she*’resisted him but he
committed her rape forcefully. On the very night she stayed in the room of
the accused. After some time her mother came there and PW 4 brought out
her from the room of the accused.) Many persons gathered there before
whom she narrated the incidentaShe stated that as they were poor whereas
the accused was rich, heneesenone said in favour of her family member.
Lateron, her father filed the case. She proved her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
as Ext. 2.

During ‘cross, she stated that she got admitted in a school at
Dimapuf, at thewage of 7 years. Thereafter they coming to Sootea got
admitted at,Sishu Bidyapith after one year. She admitted that since two
yearsNast she developed love with the accused and they also used to talk
over telephone, even when she used to go for tuition, she met him. She
stated that accused had taken her by holding her hands but her mouth was
not gagged. She admitted that in statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C., she stated that
out of love she went with the accused voluntarily and no force was used.
She stated that when the accused had taken her, Salimuddin had seen them.
She admitted that they silently entered into the room of the accused when
the parents and elder brother of the accused were in other rooms of the

house of the accused. At that time, there was disruption of electricity. She

 
Page 7 of 15

stated that accused told her that as they are going to be married, hence he
should be permitted to did misdeed. She denied the suggestion that in
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C., she stated that she allowed the accused to have
sexual relation. She further stated that near the room of the accused, his
elder brother and sister-in-law resided. She denied the suggestion that as
the family members of the accused refused to marry her with the accused,
hence, on the next day, her father filed the case. She also admitted that
from the police station she was taken to hospital wherefrom she was ‘taken
to JK CT Scan. She also admitted that at the time of incident she lovesathe
accused and prior to the incident the accused did no misdeed to‘her. She
further stated that after about half hour, her mother andes2\W“4 came but she

did not hear their sound.

13. PW 6, Smti J. Gogoi, the then learned Yudicial Magistrate, 1°
class, Tezpur, deposed that on 19-09-2017 ‘she recorded the statement of
the victim (Ext.2) in reference to Sootea PS Case No. 125/17 u/s 4 of POCSO
Act in her court chamber and after readyover the same, the victim put her
signature on it. She proved her*signature in the statement of the victim u/s
164 CR.P.C. as Ext. 2(4).

14. PW 7 Dr.donali Gogoi, the Medical Officer deposed that on 11-
09-2017 she examined thevictim and on examination found — hymen absent
and as per X*raywreport she is 17 years old but no any injury mark was
found on,herbody or on private parts. There was no sign of recent sexual
intercourse.

During cross, she stated that in case of a sexually assaulted girl,
symptom is found when the girl is examined within 24 hours. She denied the
suggestion that on the very day of report made by Radiologist, the victim
was 18 years old and so far her knowledge as one report came wrongly in
the name of Sachina Begum, hence she returned the said report and called
for victim’s report.

15. PW 8 Sri Madharam Gogoi, the Investigating Officer, deposed
that on being entrusted to investigate the case, he visited the place of
occurrence, prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence, recorded

the statement of witnesses including the victim and informant, sent the

 
Page 8 of 15

victim to KCH for medical examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation, submitted the chargesheet
against the accused Inamul Mandal u/s 4 of POCSO Act vide Ext. 6.

During cross, he stated that on 10-09-2017, Imran Hussain,
elder brother of the accused informed him over phone about the incident
and on the next day morning he visited the place of occurrence and finding
the victim out side the house of the accused brought her to thepolice
station. He further stated that he did not seize the mobile bearing*SIM ‘No.
8486790116 mentioned in the FIR. He admitted that the girl withwwhom the
victim slept on the night was not examined by him& He denied the
suggestion that victim was again sent to JK CT Scan4 X-ray and US Clinic,
Biswanath Chariali on 23-09-2017 for redetermination, ofyage. He further
stated that though he asked the guardian of the vietimeto produce the school
certificate or age certificate of the victimbut they did not produce the

same. He admitted that at the time of,recovery, he found the victim normal.

16. Defence took the “plea “of, total denial and examined two

witnesses to establish the plea.

Nek Jamal’ Mandal,“the father of the accused, examined as DW
1, deposed that on 10-09-2017 at around 10.30 p.m. when he along with his
son Imran Hussaia and Ikramul Hussain were watching TV, hearing dog’s
bark, he.came out and seeing a girl standing infront of his house, advised
the girl toygo home. In the mean time, father, maternal uncle of the victim
andxsome villagers reached there and told that his son loved the victim girl
and\so*marriage between them should be performed but he refused as his
son is a student. At that time they pushed the victim girl inside his house but
he resisted. Regarding this, a village meeting was held wherein it was
decided that in case of not marrying the victim, her father would lodge a
case, and also threatened to kill the victim, if she return back home, which
matter was informed to police by his son Imran Hussain. He further stated
that the whole night, the victim girl, her family members and other villagers
remained infront of their house and next day morning police took the victim

girl to the police station.

 
Page 9 of 15

During cross, he stated that victim’s house is situated at a
distance of about 200 meter away from his house. He further stated that he
did not know about any relation between victim and his accused son. He
also did not know whether the accused loves somebody and wants to marry
her. He stated that in statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. accused did not state that

at the relevant time his son Imran and Ikramul were watching TV.

17. DW 2, Imran Hussain, the elder brother of the accused
categorically deposed that on 10-09-2017 when he along with his father and
Ikramul Hussain were watching TV, hearing dog’s bark, he,came out and
seeing a girl standing infront of their house, asked the gitl to.go shome. In
the mean time, parents and maternal uncle, aunty of the\vietim gathered
there and told that his brother Inamul loved the victimygitlyand so marriage
between them should be performed and also threatened that they have to
go to the police station if the accused did, not marry the girl but they
refused. They also threatened the victimygirl to kill, if she came out. Then he

informed the matter to the police station)

During cross, he®stated that when they were watching TV, they
supposed that the accusedxis at home. He did not know if accused had love
affairs with the victim*and proposed to marry her. He denied the suggestion
that the accused taking the victim did have sexual intercourse with her but

after arrival,of the public including the guardian of the victim, he fled away.

18. In the case, regarding age, PW 1, the victim’s father in
examination-in-chief, stated that at the time of incident victim was 16 years
old_and’ attended upto class VII. Victim’s mother, PW 3, also mentioned the
victim’s age as 16 years. The victim at the time of recording deposition
mentioned her age as 16 years. On the other hand, PW 2 victim's uncle,
deposed that so far his knowledge, at the time of incident victim was 17
years old but he did not know when and where the victim was born. The
medical report, Ext. 4 also shows that the victim was 17 years old. Though
the victim was reading in school and her birth certificate was obtained but
the Investigating Officer did not seize any school certificate or birth

certificate to ascertain the age of the victim, the best reason known to him.

 
Page 10 of 15

19. Learned defence counsel producing a zerox copy of medical
report vide SI. 5683 dated 11-09-2017 vehemently argued that at the time of
furnishing the copy u/s 207 of Cr.P.C., two medical reports were furnished
and as per one medical report vide SI. No. 5683 dated 11-09-2017, the
victim was 18 years old and another medical report vide SI. No. 6042 dated
23-09-2017, the victim was 17 years old and as such, it creates a doubt

regarding the age of the victim.

20. On careful perusal of the case diary though no note was, found
regarding the medical report as per which the victim wasel8 years old
furnished to the accused but the anticipatory bail orden granted by the
Hon’ble High Court also reflects about two medical reports,one is 17 years
and another is 18 years. Moreover, as per evidence of PW 2y the uncle of the
victim, she was sent for medical examination after‘about 10 days. Even if the
medical report as per which the victim was‘17 years, is accepted, but it is
well settled that margin of error in age ascertained by Radiological in two
years on either side (Jayamala¢Vs} Home Secretary reported in AIR
1982 SC 1297).

21. Further as perxevidence of the parents of the victim, she was
admitted in school at‘the age of 7 years. The victim’s father, once stated
that she was born in Dimapur but again stated that she was born in
Sibsagar. On the, other hand, victim’s mother deposed that victim was born
in Koroiani, Sootea, so regarding the place of birth of the victim they gave
different version. Moreover, it is also admitted that the birth certificate of the
vietimnwas obtained from Dimapur mentioning her age as 5 years to get

admission in school when she was actually 7 years old.

22. In view of the evidence of the parents and uncle of the victim
coupled with medical evidence, I unhesitatingly hold that the prosecution

failed to prove conclusively that the victim is under the age of 18 years.

23. Now, let us see other facts and circumstances of the case. The
star witness i.e. the victim (PW 5) in her evidence stated that on the day, at

around 10.30 p.m., the accused Inamul Mandal over phone called her to

 
Page 11 of 15

come infront of her house for conversation but due to night when she
expressed her inability to come out, accused Inamul again rang her from the
front of gate of her house and then opening the door when she came out,
accused had taken her forcefully to his room and raped her there. She
further stated that at first though she resisted but the accused did not pay
any heed and raped her forcefully. On the night she stayed in his room and
after sometime her mother came there and Monowara Khatoon (PW™4)
brought her out. Her father (PW 1) stated that on the night at around hi
p.m. when he got up, he noticed the door of the room open where his vietim
daughter was sleeping with his wife’s niece. Seeing the Open door, he
entered into the room and in the light of torch, thoughshe found his wife’s
niece but had not found his daughter upon the bed. Hence he called his
wife’s niece and asked where about his daughter to which she replied that
she was in deep sleep, so she did not know¢ So, as ‘per his evidence, seeing
the opened door when he entered intoythe room of his daughter, then he
came to know that his victim daughterwas.not upon the bed whereas in the
FIR he stated that his niece over telephone informed him that the accused
calling the victim took to his*house,, The material witness, the cousin sister of
the victim who was sleeping on that night with the victim was not examined
by prosecution. Moreover, the informant gave two different versions in the
FIR and in deposition as discussed above. Further, as per evidence of the
father of the victimpwhen his wife (PW3) and wife of PW 2 i.e. PW 4 went
inside the house.of the accused, found the victim in the room of the accused
in atcompromising position. PW 2 also categorically stated that PW 3 and PW
4found both the accused and the victim in indecent condition in a room but
PW 3, mother of the victim did not state that the victim was found with the
accused in indecent or compromising position. She only stated that they
found the victim in the room of the accused. PW 5, the victim herself stated
that the accused on that night called her over phone for conversation and
when she refused, then again he called her from the front of gate of her
house. During cross, victim admitted her love affairs with the accused since
last two years and that they used to talk over phone. She admitted that

when she used to go for tuition, she met him. She also admitted that the

 
Page 12 of 15

accused holding her hands had taken her but her mouth was not gagged.
She also admitted in her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. that out of love she
voluntarily went with the accused and no any force was used to her. The
medical evidence also does not suggestive of any recent sexual intercourse
or any injury on her body or private part though she was examined on very
next day of the alleged incident. Absence of injuries on the person of the
prosecutrix was a material fact not excluding the possibility of prosecutrix
having been a consenting party. Though as per evidence of the parents,/the
victim and PW 4 one Salimuddin had seen them but said Salimuddinewas
also not examined by the prosecution side. Taking the evidence of the victim
it is found that if the victim herself seen Salimuddin, she.could@easily raise
alarm or resist the accused when he had taken her at night but she did not
do so. Her evidence clearly shows that sheavoluntarily went with the
accused. She also admitted during cross that she and the accused silently
entered into the room of the accused when, there was interruption of
electricity. Her evidence also reveals thateat that time, the parents and the
accused’s elder brother with wife weresin the same house. Had the accused
committed her rape forcefully, she could raise alarm and in that case the
other occupants of the_house would hear her sound but she did not raise
any hulla. PW 4 deposed that’°when along with PW 1, PW 2 and PW 3 went
to the house of the accused in search of the victim, they met Salimuddin
who told them “that, accused taking the victim entered into his room and
thereafter coming to the room of the accused, found the accused and the
victim ‘aude, During cross he stated that when the mother of the accused
knocked the door of the room of the accused, the door opened
automatically. So, the room was not bolted and she can easily came out.
This witness also deposed that they did not found the accused and the
victim in compromising position. Her evidence indicates that they only found
the victim in the room of the accused, not in any compromising position.
Moreover, PW 1 to PW 4, the parents, uncle and aunty of the victim in their
statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. only stated that the victim was found with the
accused in one room. They before police did not stated that the victim was

found in compromising or indecent position. The victim’s mother also stated

 
Page 13 of 15

that they reaching the house of the accused called the victim by name
repeatedly but the victim remained silent in the house of the accused and

did not come out.

24. On the other hand, the defence side by adducing evidence
categorically deposed that on the day when the father of the accused and
brother were watching TV, they seeing the victim infront of their house,
asked her to return home but she did not go out and thereafter heramily
members came there and claimed that accused loved her, so marriage
should be performed between them. Then DW 2 informed thesmatter to the
police station which is supported by I.O. PW 8 saying that*on\10-09-2017 at
night DW 2 Imran Hussain informed over phone about “the incident.
Moreover, though the victim was found on thexvery night and FIR was
lodged on the next day but statement of the victim®was recorded u/s 164
Cr.P.C. after 9 days i.e. on 19" September, 2017, wherein she said that the
accused wanted to have sexual intercourse with her and though at first she
opposed saying that they should mot\getxclosed before marriage but he said
that he will marry her and therevis noyharm in physical relation and then she
allowed him to do sexual,intercourse. Though she claimed that the accused
inducing her to get marrysdid. have sexual intercourse with her on that night
but it was recorded aften9/days of the incident. So, there is every possibility
of exaggerating the fact after the incident when the accused did not marry
her. There iS also no iota of evidence that the accused with promise to
marry, did¢have sexual intercourse with the victim. The evidence of the
victim and her close relative coupled with medical evidence clearly indicates
that\she entered into the room of the accused on her own accord and even if
she was found having physical relation with the accused, it is a case of

promiscuity.

25. From all the attending facts and circumstances of the case
discussed above, I held and decide that the prosecution failed to prove it’s

case beyond all reasonable doubt.
Page 14 of 15

26. Accordingly, accused Md. Inamul Hussain @ Inamul Mandal is
acquitted from the charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act and_ set him at liberty

forthwith. His bail bond shall remain in force till next six months.

27. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 18" day
of February, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(I.Barman)

Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R.Aazarikay Steno.
ol GX GT be No

©

Page 15 of 15

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7

Defence Witness No.1

Defence Witness No. 2

Father of the victim

Uncle of the victim

Mother of the victim

Manowara Khatoon

victim

Smti J. Gogoi, JM,1* class, Tezpur
Sri Madharam Gogoi, I.O.

Father of the accused

Elder brother of thesaccused.

EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 1 : FIR.
Exhibit 2 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Exhibit 3 order dated 19-06-2017.
Exhibit 4 Medical report.
Exhibit 5 sketch map
Exhibit, 6 Chargesheet.
(I.Barman)
SESSIONS JUDGE,

SONITPUR: TEZPUR
