Page 1 of 10

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE DARRANG,MANGALDAI.

Spl.(POCSO) Case No.8 of 2016
(U/S :363/366/376(2)(i) |.2.C. R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act).

(Committed by Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Mangaldai in G.R.case No.1628/2015).

State
Versus

Shahjahan Ali

S/O Lt.Intaz Ali

Vill- Chakrabasti

P.S. Dalgaon,
District-Darrang(Assam)

-Accused.

PRESENT: Sri P.Saikia,A,J.S.,
Sessions Judge.
Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPERANCE:

For the Prosecution : Sri G.R.Baruah, P.P.,Mangaldai
AND

For the accused : Akramul Ali, Advocate.

Evidence recorded on :18/03/17, 01/04/17, 12/04/17 &
13/06/17.

Argument heard on: 16/06/17.

Judgment delivered on: 30/06/2017.
Page 2 of 10

UDGMENT.

1. The factual matrix of the prosecution case in brief is that on

3.

13/07/2015 the informant Md.Nazrul Islam lodged a written report
with the Officer In-charge, Dalgaon Police Station alleging inter alia
that on 08/07/2015 his own younger sister (real name is withheld
and henceforth referred to as the victim) aged around 14 years
was found missing from his house. Accordingly, he along with other
persons conducted search for her recovery, but her whereabouts
could not be traced out. In the meantime, he came to know that the
accused Md. Shahjahan Ali after hatching a conspiracy called the
victim to come out from the house and then he took her along with
him and kept one night at his house and on the next day he again
took her to an unknown place.

On receipt of the written report and treating the same as an FIR the
Officer-in-charge, Dalgaon P.S. registered the case vide Dalgaon PS
case No.378/15 dated 13/07/15 U/S 120(B)/366(A)/34 IPC and
endorsed the case for investigation to S.l. Someswar Konwar.
During investigation the 1.0. visited the place of occurrence,
arrested the accused, forwarded him to custody, recovered the
victim and got her statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. 1.0. The 1.0.
prepared a sketch map of the place of occurrence and recorded the
statement of available witnesses U/S 161 Cr.P.C. On conclusion of
the investigation the I.O. laid a charge sheet U/S 173 Cr.P.C. for the
offence U/S 366A/376(2)(i)/344 IPC read with Section 4 of the
POCSO Act.

Accepting the charge sheet the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Darrang,Mangaldai took cognizance of the offences. Thereafter,
having found the offences are exclusively triable by the court of
Sessions committed the case to this court of Sessions on 13/07/17
after complying the provision of Section 207 Cr.P.C.
Page 3 of 10

4. On receipt of the case on commitment my learned predecessor in

Bs

Office vide order dated 16/08/2016 registered a special (POCSO)
case No.8/16 for trail of the accused Shahjahan Ali in accordance
with law. Thereupon my learned predecessor in Office after scrutiny
of the copy of the document and relevant paper found a prima-facie
case and sufficient ground for presuming that the accused has
committed the offence U/S 363/376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act. Accordingly, formal charges thereunder were framed
against the accused and the charge so framed on being read over
and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to stand trial.

The prosecution in order to establish its case examined as many as
6(six) witnesses including the M.O. and |.O. of the case.

After closure of the prosecution evidence the accused was
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C.. He took the plea of innocence and false
accusation.The accused however, declined to enter into defence by
adducing defence evidence.

Situated thus, the points for determination in the present case
stand as:

(i)Whether on 08/07/15 at Baruapara under Dalgaon P.S. the
accused Shahjahan Ali kidnapped the victim, a minor girl under the
age of 18 years from the lawful guardian of his elder brother Md.
Nazrul Islam ?

(ii)Whether on the same date, time and place the accused
Shahjahan Ali kidnapped or abducted the victim girl with intent that
she might be compelled to marry any person against her will or
knowing to be likely that she might be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse or induced her by means of criminal intimidation or by
any other method to go from any place with intent or knowing it to
be likely that she might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse
with another person?
10.

11.

Les

Page 4 of 10

(iii)Whether on the same date, time and place under Dalgaon P.S.
forcefully committed rape on the victim girl who is under 18 years
of age?

| have heard argument canvassed by the learned counsel of both
the sides and also evaluated evidence on record in its entirety.

DISCUSSION, DECISOON AND REASONS THEREOF:
PW1 Md. Kalimuddin who scribed the FIR. He has testified to the
effect that the FIR marked as Exhibit-1 was written by him as per

 

the instruction of the first informant Nazrul Islam. After scribing the
FIR he read over the same to the first informant and after admitting
the contents as correct the first informant put his thumb impression
in ext.1, the FIR. He has proved and marked the thumb impression
with his hand writing the name of Nazrul Islam as Ext.1(1). Ext.1(2)
is his signature. He has further stated that he has no personal
knowledge about the incident.

In cross-examination he has revealed that Ext.1 was written on
13/07/2015 and he had written the age of the victim therein as per
the instruction of the first informant Nazrul Islam.

PW2 Md. Nazrul Islam is the first informant. According to his
evidence the accused is known to him and the victim girl is his
sister. He has further stated that about more than one year ago he
lodged the FIR(Ext.1) against the accused for kidnapping his victim
sister. Later he came to know that the accused had taken his sister
to work. After work she came back to their home. At the time of
occurrence his sister was aged about 18 to 19 years. In the
meantime his sister has already been given in marriage with
another person namely Asmat Ali.

In cross-examination he has disclosed that FIR, Ext.1 was lodged
merely on suspicion against the accused and that he had given the
13.

14.

15.

Page 5 of 10

age of the victim sister in the FIR on presumption. On the date of
the alleged incident his sister went with the accused for doing work.

PW3 is the victim herself. She has deposed to the effect that the
accused is known to her. About one year ago one day she went with
accused to his aunt’s house at Guwahati without informing her
family members. After 3 days of staying in the aunt’s house with
Shahjahan Ali she returned to her home. As she was found absent
from the house her brother lodged one case in this regard. It is her
further evidence that the Police produced her before the Magistrate
and got her statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. She has proved and
marked her statement as Ext.2, wherein ext.2(1) to Ext.2(4) are her
signatures. She has further stated that though she was produced in
Mangaldai Civil hospital for medical examination, but on her refusal
of medical examination could not be performed by the doctor. She
has proved and marked ext.3 which is the Police requisition for her
medical examination and ext.3(1) is her signature after her refusal
to undergo medical examination.

In cross-examination she has divulged that the accused is her
relative and on the day of the occurrence she went with the
accused for roaming and her brother finding her absent lodged the
FIR, exhibit 1. She has further disclosed that at the time of
occurrence she was aged about 19 years. But she stated her age as
14 years in her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. as tutored by Police.

PW4 Md. Saifuddin Anmed appears to be a hearsay witness. It is his
evidence that both the victim girl and the accused are known to
him. About two years ago the victim girl who is the daughter of his
uncle went missing from her home. Later after 4/5 days she was
recovered from Guwahati. He was told that accused had taken the
victim girl. After few days of the incident the victim girl was given in
marriage with some other person.
16.

17.

18.

19.

Page 6 of 10

In cross-examination he has stated that he does not know how the
victim girl came back to her home after the incident.

PW5 Md. Riju Ahmed is another witness who has revealed in his
chief-examination that though he knew that the accused resides in
his village but he does not know the victim girl and he has no
knowledge about the incident at all.

PW6 Someswar Konwar who is the I|.0. of the case and his evidence
is found to be formal in nature. It is his evidence that on 13/07/15
he was working as Attached Officer in the Dalgaon P.S. On that day
O/C of Dalgaon PS. received an FIR from one Nazrul Islam(PW2)
alleging that his minor sister was kidnapped by the accused. On the
basis of the FIR , O/C, Dalgaon PS. registered a case and entrusted
him for investigation. During investigation he visited the place of
occurrence, recovered the victim girl and got her statement U/S 164
Cr.P.C. He also sent the victim girl for medical examination, but the
victim girl refused to undergo medical examination as a
consequence she could not be medically examined. He also
prepared a sketch map of the place of occurrence and also recorded
the statement of witnesses U/S 161 Cr.PC. On conclusion of
investigation he found a prima-facie case against the accused
person and laid the charge sheet U/S 366A/376(2)(i)/344 IPC read
with Section 4 of POCSO Act. He has proved and marked charge
sheet as exhibit 4;wherein ext.4(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination he has revealed that Officer-in-charge of
Dalgaon P.S. entrusted him with the investigation of the case on the
Same date of lodging the FIR on 13/07/15 and he commenced
investigation on that very day visiting the place of occurrence. He
has also revealed that during investigation of the case on 20/07/15
the victim voluntarily came to Dhula Police Station.
20.

Pills

Page 7 of 10

On analysis of the foregoing discussion of evidence on record it is
patent that there is no incriminating evidence adduced by any of
the witnesses including the victim to substantiate the charges
levelled against the accused. The most important witness in the
facts and circumstances of the case ,i.e. the victim PW3 has
delivered irreconcilable evidence which does not fit at all to the
substratum of the prosecution case. She has asserted in point blank
in her chief examination that she voluntarily went with the accused
to the aunt’s house of the accused at Guwahati without informing
her family members.When she did not return to her house her
brother PW2 lodged the First Information Report on suspicion
against the accused that he might have kidnapped her. PW3 has
not even made a whisper that the accused abducted her and
thereafter committed rape upon her. In the face of such
irreconcilable evidence of PW3(victim) whatever she stated in her
statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. has lost its significance in absence of
implicating evidence in her testimony as her statement U/S 164
Cr.P.C. marked as Ext.2 can not be treated as substantive evidence
as the same can only be used for the purpose of corroboration or
contradiction and not beyond that. When there is no legally
admissible evidence adduced by the victim PW3 to support the
charges levelled against the accused and as such, the discrepant
and inconsistent evidence of PW3 has eroded the credibility of the
prosecution case.

In the same tune PW2 who is the brother of the victim,PW3 and the
first informant of the case has adduced his evidence without
implicating the accused with the offence at all resiling from the
materials particulars of the case. PW2 has disclosed that he lodged
the FIR, exhibit 1 against the accused merely on suspicion when he
did not find his sister(PW3) at their house. Subsequently he came to
know that the accused had taken his sister PW3 to work and later
she came back to their house. Thus, it appears that the evidence of
22.

23.

24.

25.

Page 8 of 10

PW2 also lacks implicit evidence to establish the charges levelled
against the accused.

Now, turning to the testimony of PW4 and PW5 it is evident that
they are only reported witnesses. They have simply stated that
about 2 years ago the victim PW3 was found missing from her
home. Later she was recovered after 4/5 days from Guwahati. Thus,
it is seen from the testimony of PW4 and PW5 that they have
disclosed virtually no inspiring evidence in support of the charge as
it is obvious from their testimony that their evidence are hearsay
one.

So far as the age of the victim PW3 is concerned it appears from her
evidence that she stated her age as 22 years and she was also not
medically examined to determine her actual age nor any School
certificate was produced to determine the age of the victim.
However, it appears from her statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
that she disclosed her age as 14 years at the time of the alleged
incident. As a result of such discrepant statement as to the age of
the victim PW3 in her statement before the Magistrate and her
evidence before this Court coupled with the absence of any
medical certificate or birth certificate of the victim PW3 as to her
actual age it can be safely assumed that the victim being a major
girl on the date of the alleged occurrence with the accused on her
own volition.

Lastly, the evidence of I.0. Someswar Konwar PW6 is found to be
formal in nature. It appears from his evidence that after as usual
conduct of the investigation of the case he submitted the charge
sheet against the accused U/S 366(A)/376)(2)(i)/344 IPC read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act which is marked as exhibit 4.

Having given the benefit of doubt as to the age of the victim PW3
as major in the back ground of the incoherent evidence on record, |
26.

27.

Page 9 of 10

am of the considered view that the prosecution has failed to prove
its case against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt to bring
home the charges against the accused.

In the result, | am constrained to hold that the accused Shahjahan
Ali is not guilty U/S 363/366/276(2)(i) IPC reads with Section 4 of
POCSO Act. He is acquitted thereunderr. He is set at liberty
forthwith.

Bail bond executed by the accused Shahjahan Ali and the surety
Shall remain in force for another six months under the purview of
Section 437(A) Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court this 30" day of
Jujne,2017.

Dictated and corrected by me and
each page bears my signatures.

(P.Saikia)
Sessions Judge Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai. Darrang,Mangaldai.
Page 10 of 10

APPENDIX:

A)Prosecution witnesses:
i)PW1 Kaimuddin Akand
ii)PW2 Md. Nazrul Islam
iii)PW3 Mustt. Hasina Begum
iv)PW4 Md. Saifuddin Anmed
v)PW5 Md. Riju Anmed
vi)PW6 Sri Someswar Konwar

B)Defence witness: Nil.

C)Exhibits:

i)Ext.1 FIR

ii)Ext.2 statement of victim
iii)Ext.3 Police requisition.
iv)Ext.4 charge sheet.

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
