pes

oe

‘ie

om

 

$ SEC
& es)
at. GK = ee
\ ANSON rp, x J
KU. i Uy
ve Aw
Sagat
aI ; ; ak
Se CHS i

Page 1 of 4
Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 48/2018
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI

SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 48/2018
u/s 363/376/34 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

 

 

State of Assam
-ys-
1. Sri Ram Orang
2. Sri Sobinash Orang
see Accused persons

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Special Judge,

Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

1; Advocates Appeared:-

of For the prosecution: Mr. J. Bardoloi, learned Addl. P.P

For the defence : Mr. P. Hazarika, learned Advocate

Date of recording Evidence: 27.03.2019.

Date of Argument : 27.03.2019.

Date of Judgment : 27.03.2019.
JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 19.09.2018 the informant namely, Smti Premeswari

Sawashi lodged an FIR with the OC, Gingia PS stating inter alia that the same day at about
1 PM when her daughter (name is withheld) and her sister-in-law were on their way to her
mother's house, the accused Ram Orang suddenly appeared and snatched away her

daughter with him and fled from the place of occurrence on his bicycle.

2. Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After

investigation the police submitted charge-sheet against the two accused persons u/s
363/34 IPC r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act.

ons yt S After appearance of the accused persons before this court, taking note of the materials
3 OUT cot rik Agr

2
ao wy
d\. Set a .

on™

furnished u/s 173 CrPC, as this court found grounds for presuming that the accused
persons had committed offences u/s 363/34 IPC, the charges were accordingly framed
against them, which on being read over and explained, they pleaded not guilty. Further as
from the materials on record it could be presumed that the accused Sobinath Orang had
committed offences u/s 376 IPC, r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012, the charges were
accordingly framed against him, which on being read over and explained, he pleaded not

5
Page 2 of 4
Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 48/2018

guilty.

4. During trial, the prosecution examined the informant as well as the alleged victim. Looking

 

into the evidence as adduced by both these vital witnesses, the prosecution declined to
examine the remaining witnesses contending that further evidence would not strengthen
its case. Taking note of the materials on record, the prosecution evidence was closed. As
no incriminating evidence was found against the accused persons, their examinations u/s

313 CrPC were dispensed with. The case was thereafter argued by both the sides.

Points for determination
i) Whether the accused persons on the day of the alleged occurrence, in furtherance of

their common intention kidnapped the said victim from lawful guardianship of her

<s... mother, Smti Premeswari Sawashi?

“ii Whether the accused Sobinash Orang on the day of the alleged occurrence
committed rape on the said victim?
ili) Whether the said accused on the day of the said occurrence committed penetrative

sexual assault on the said victim, who is below the age of 18 years?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

. PW 1 is the informant Smti Premeswari Sawashi. She stated that on the day of the said

occurrence when she returned from her work place, she did not find her daughter-the
victim in their house. She searched for her daughter but as she could not find her out, she
lodged the FIR, which she proved that as Ext. 1. She stated that her daughter fled with the
accused Sobinash and got married to him. According to her, the age of her daughter was
19 years at that relevant time. She stated that her daughter had gone with the accused on
her own wish and she had lodged the FIR out of misunderstanding. She further stated that
as the people of her village named the accused Ram Orang to be involved in the incident,
she had named him in the Ext.1.

PW 2 is the victim. She corroborated to her mother-PW 1 and stated that she had on her
own wish had gone with the accused and got married to him. She categorically stated that
the accused is innocent and her mother had lodged the FIR out of misunderstanding. Thus

' from the evidence of both these vital witnesses, more particularly, from the evidence of

PW2, we do not find any material against the accused persons to show that they had
abducted the victim or any of the accused had committed rape on her. The prosecution has
failed to prove its case. As such I acquit the accused persons from the offences charged
against them and set them at liberty forthwith. The provision of Sec. 437-A CrPC is not
complied with taking note of the evidence on record. A copy of the judgment be forwarded

to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec. 365 Cr.P.C. The case is
Page 3 of 4
Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 48/2018
disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 27th day of March, 2019.

  

te pl 2
(D. BORA

Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.

judg?

Sessions a
add. ~* Charias Soity
giswet)
Page 4 of 4
Spl. (POC Case No. 48/2018
ANNEXURE

 

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Smti Premeswari Sawachi
PW2- Victim

 

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Ext.1- FIR

Witnesses examined by the Defence.

None

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

None.

~
70
Addl. Sessions Juda

Biswanath Chariail, Sonitpur
