Page 1 of 7

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 54/15

Informant: XXXXX

Accused: Sri Amul Karmakar,
S/o- Sri Mohan Karmakar,
R/o- Radha Grant (Halmari Bagan),
PS- Khowang,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: , learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 7

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 54/15
G.R. Case No. 2249/15

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Amul Karmakar

Charges: under Sections 366 IPC read with Section 4 PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 17-10-15, 08-12-15, 05-01-16, 21-01-16, 10-03-16,
28-06-16.

Date of argument : 28-07-16.

Date of Judgment __: 10-08-16.

JUDGMENT

1) Prosecution case is that on the night of 15-08-15, when the victim had gone
outside her house for bringing water from the tube well, the accused caught
and dragged her away by gagging her mouth and thereafter committed
forcible rape upon her. An ejahar was lodged by the sister of the victim
whereupon, a police case was registered and investigation commenced. In
Court of such investigation, the Investigating Officer visited the place of
occurrence, got the victim medially examined, recorded the statement of
witnesses, prepared Sketch-Map, got the statement of the victim recorded
under Section 164 CrPC and on completion of investigation, filed the Charge-
Sheet.

2) This Court framed charges under Sections 366 IPC read with Section 4 PCSO
Act (hereinafter PCSO Act) against the accused person and the charges were
read over and explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried.

3) In course of trial, prosecution examined eight witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.

4) Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and the learned counsel for the
5)

6)

7)

Page 3 of 7

defence.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

1. Whether the prosecutrix was a child within the meaning of Section
2(d) of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(hereinafter ‘the Act’)?

2. Whether the accused person abducted the victim, a minor, by
deceitful means in order that she may be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse or knowing the same to be likely to happen?

3. Whether the accused person committed penetrative sexual assault
upon the victim?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

PW-5 Dr. Mohsina Ahmed stated that on 17-08-15, she examined Smti.
Radhika Munda on police requisition in connection with Khowang PS Case No.
33/15 under Section 376(2)(f) IPC and r/w Section 4 PCSO Act. On the basis
of Physical examination, Radiological & Laboratory Investigation done on
Smti. Radhika Munda, PW-5 was of the opinion that the actual age of the
victim was above 12 years and below 14 years at the time of her
examination. From the medical evidence, it is established that the victim was

a child at the time of alleged occurrence.

Point No. 2 & 3:

PW-1 who is elder sister of the victim stated that on the date of occurrence,
her younger sister, i.e., the victim was staying in her house situated at Radha
Grant, Halmari Bagan. At about 8:00 pm, she went out to the backside of the
house of PW-1 for taking water from the tube well. When she did not return
to the house for a long time, PW-1 went out in search of her outside the
house, but could not find her. After half an hour, she returned to the house
and was weeping. She did not speak anything and on being interrogated by
PW-1, she informed that the accused committed rape on her by taking her
forcefully while she was going towards the tube well. Thereafter, PW-1 went
to the house of the accused, being the neighbour, but he denied the incident.
During cross-examination, PW-1 stated that she and others did not inform the
matter to anyone and on the day of occurrence, there was a guest in her
house. Other houses were adjacent to her house and there was no electric

facility in her house. At night, her victim sister went to the tube well and half
Page 4 of 7

an hour thereafter, the victim came back and took meal and slept with PW-1.
Till then, the victim did not state anything to PW-1 and others. Thereafter,
the victim stated the incident before PW-1 as well as other persons, namely,
Pramila Munda and Ranjit Munda. PW-1 further stated that she did not see
the incident and she had good relation with the accused. She denied the
defence suggestion that the accused person had committed rape on her
sister.

8) PW-2 Sri Ranjit Pujari stated that upon asking the victim told that she went to
latrine, but he as well as others did not see mud and blood stain on her
cloths. At last she told PW-2 and others that the accused dragged her to the
backside of the house and committed rape on her. As she got injury on her
private parts, PW-2 and others took her to the hospital of Halmari Tea Estate.

9) During cross-examination, PW-2 reiterated what he stated in his examination-
in-chief and denied the defence suggestion.

10)PW-5 Dr. Mohsina Ahmed stated that on 17-08-15, she examined Smti.
Radhika Munda on police requisition in connection with Knowang PS Case No.
33/15 under Section 376(2)(f) IPC and r/w Section 4 PCSO Act. Upon
examination of genital organs, she found as follows:

"Genital organs are developed. Vulva: One tear at midline of posterior
perineal wall of size 5 ml x 3 ml x 2ml. Hymen: Three tears present at
hymen at 3, 8 & 9 O’ Clock position. Tenderness present. Margins of
tears, swollen and congested. Vagina and cervix is healthy. Uterus not
palpable clinically.”

PW-5 further stated that on the basis of Physical examination, Radiological &

Laboratory Investigation done on Smti. Radhika Munda, she was of the opinion

that-

(1) Genital findings are suggestive of forceful recent vaginal
penetration;

(2) Injuries are present on private parte as described on form No. 2,
20(b)(c);

11) PW-6 Smti. Radhika Munda @ Mura stated that she knew the accused being
the neighbour of her elder sister, i.e., PW-1 situated at Halmari Tea Estate.
She also identified the accused in the Court on the day of her deposition.
PW-6 further stated that on the day of occurrence, she went to the house of

her elder sister and on that day, at about 8:00 pm, she as well as her elder
Page 5 of 7

sister and elder brother-in-law took food and thereafter, she went to the tube
well for taking drinking water situated at the backside of the house. When
she went to the tube well, the accused pressed her mouth from her backside
and dragged her towards the backside of the house. As the accused kept
pressing her mouth, she could not shout. The accused took her to the bari
and thereafter, tore her churider and churider pant. The accused dragged her
to the nala and thereafter, pressed his penis against her vagina from her
backside. During the process, she sustained injury on her private part. PW-6
further stated that she shouted and hearing her shout, her elder sister came
and thereafter, seeing her, the accused fled from the place of occurrence. She
narrated the incident to her elder sister. Blood was coming out from her
vagina. On the same day, at night, her elder sister and elder brother-in-law
(Bhini) apprehended the accused. The neighbouring people also gathered at
the house of her elder sister after hearing about the occurrence.

12) During cross-examination, PW-6 stated that she was born at Duliajan and
since then, she has been living at Duliajan. Prior to the occurrence, she did
not see the accused and also did not Know where he resides. She also did not
know the family members of the accused. She could identify the accused
person. As told by the neighbouring people and her elder sister, she stated
before the Court that the name of the accused was Anul. The local people
told her that the place of occurrence was called Radhagrant. PW-6 further
stated that after the alleged incident, about 10/12 persons gathered there,
but she did not know all those persons. She denied the defence suggestion
that she has falsely implicated the accused.

13)What is of immense importance in the instant case is the issue of
identification of the accused by the prosecutrix. She admitted that prior to
the occurrence, she had never seen the accused. The occurrence took place
at night time behind the house of the informant situated at a rural tea garden
area and there is no evidence that there was any kind of lighting at the place
of occurrence, sufficient for identification of a previously known person. in
fact, the informant/PW-1 had stated in her cross-examination that there was
no electricity in her house, behind which the occurrence allegedly took place.
The prosecutrix only came to know of the name of the accused from the
neighbours and her sister after the occurrence. In what manner, then, did she
identify the accused to the PWs- 1 & 2, on the basis of which PW-1 could go
Page 6 of 7

charging to the house of the accused. There is no allegation in the deposition
of PW-6 that the perpetrator threatened her with a view to prevent
disclosure, yet she falsely told PW-2 that she had gone to the latrine, after
she returned from the place of occurrence. Although the accused was
arrested the very next day, no Test Identification Parade was held and neither
was there any identification of the accused by the victim at the police station
after the accused was arrested and she had been taken there for recording
her statement.

14) The accused in his defence statement stated that in the year 2013, he had a
verbal quarrel with PW-2, brother-in-law of the victim. The issue was that his
wife/PW-1 was going to work when her “Tukri’ and ‘Japi’ fell down when the
accused and others were passing nearby. In the evening, PW-2, in a drunken
state accused him of felling down his wife's ‘Tukri’ and ‘Japi’ and that led to
the altercation. He threatened that he will get even (sai lom) and thereafter
he had lodged the instant case.

15)Under the above circumstances, it is well nigh impossible to hold that the
victim had succeeded in identifying her assailant, even though the medical
evidence as well as the forensic evidence very well corroborates the oral
testimony of the victim regarding the factum of forceful sexual intercourse.

16)In the result, I hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its case
beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused person is acquitted
of the offence under Sections 366 IPC read with Section 4 PCSO Act and he
be set at liberty forthwith.

17) Issue Release Order.

18) Accused shall be released on execution of a personal bond of Rs. 20,000/-
under Section 437-A IPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 10" day of

August, 2016.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 7 of 7

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. XXXXX
List of Exhibits:

1.

9.

enw oOo Ss WD

Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.

1 Seizure-List;

2 Medico-legal Report;

3 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
4 Seizure-List;

5 Sketch-Map;

6-A Forwarding letter from FSL;

6 FSL Report;

7 Ejahar; and

8 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
