SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: CACHAR.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.03 of 2019

(U/S 448 IPC and Sec. 4 of POCSO Act)

Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......cccccccsseecccccssssaessseeesssseeees Complainant.
-Versus-

RiyaZUul MAZUMAEN...........cccccsscceeeesessseseeeeeneeeeees Accused person.

Charge framed On :-...........cccccccccceceteeeeesssssseeeeeeeeeeeess 7/2/19

AYA ASHER =>, <o1001] 8(2\6 ©) 8 19/8/19

Argument heard On! ....cccceceeesssseeeeeeeesssssseeeeeees 19.8.19.

Judgment pronounced and delivered on:-............. 19.08.19.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Mr. R.M. Das, Ld. P.P.
Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : Mr. A.H. Laskar, Advocate.
JUDGMENT

The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 27.11.2018 the
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/19

informant Md. Jalal Uddin lodged an FIR with the O/C of Silchar PS.
stating the facts that prior to the filing of ejahar the accused taking the
advantage of being the son in law of the informant used to come to the
house of the informant and had sexual intercourse with Farida Begum, the
minor daughter of the informant by inducing her continuously and also had
sexually assaulted her.

2. On receipt of the FIR, case was registered vide Silchar P.S. Case
No.4063/18 U/S 448/376/506 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. Police
started investigation and during the course of investigation the statement
of the victim girl was recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. The victim girl was also sent
to SMCH, Silchar for medical examination. The investigating officer visited
the place of occurrence and prepared a rough sketch map. He also
recorded statement of the witnesses and subsequently after completion of
investigation submitted charge sheet against accused Bishal Karmakar U/S
448/376 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. The offence Sec.4 of POCSO Act of the case being exclusively
triable by the Court of Special Judge, this case was taken up for trial after
filing of the charge sheet. In due course, upon appearance of the accused
and after hearing both sides formal charge U/S 448 IPC and Section 4 of
POCSO Act was framed by this court against the accused person. The
charges having been read over and explained the accused pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(i) Whether the accused committed house trespass by entering
into the house of the informant with intent to commit rape on the minor
daughter of the informant, as alleged ?

(2) Whether the accused prior to lodging of the FIR committed

penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl in the house of the informant,
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/19

as alleged ?

4. From the prosecution side as many as 2 witnesses have been examined
including the informant and the victim. The defence side has examined none.
As no incriminating materials appears to be found against the accused
during evidence the recording of statement of the accused U/S 313
Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.

5. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have also
heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF

6. Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the
accused person as mentioned in point for determination.

7. PW.2 Farida Begum is the victim of this case and she deposed in
her deposition that the accused Riaj Uddin is the husband of her elder
sister. The accused had gifted her one mobile phone and sh used to talk
with him over phone. As she used to talk with the accused and as such,
her father on suspicion has lodged one FIR resulting to the instant case.
In her cross examination she stated that she deposed in her 164 Cr.P.C.
statement as per instruction of other people. She does not have any
grievances against the accused person.

8. PW.1 , Jalaul Uddin Ahmed the informant of this case deposed
that the accused used to talk on mobile phone with her younger daughter
Farida Begum. On suspicion he lodged one FIR against the accused with
the Silchar PS. In his cross examination he stated that he cannot
remember as to what is being written in the FIR.He has no grievances
against the accused.

9. So, from the evidence of prime witness i.e. the victim PW.2 it

appears that she did not at all implicate the accused person in the
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/19

alleged offence of crime. Rather she stated in her cross examination that she
has no grievances against the accused and out of suspicion this case was
lodged against the accused. PW.1 also did not implicate the accused and
Stated that this case was lodged on suspicion.
10. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/s 448 of IPC and Sec.
4 of POCSO Act against accused Riyazul Mazumder.
11. In view of the above, accused is not held guilty and _ stands
acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty
forthwith.
Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on
this the 19" day of August, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee,
Stenographer Gr. I
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.3/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 3 of 2019.

APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — Jalaluddin Anmed
PW. 2 — Farida Begum.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — FIR.

Ext. 2 — statement.
(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -

NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
