CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 58/15

Informant: — Sri Krishna Keot,
S/o- Late Sitaram Keot,
R/o- Alubari Line,
PS- Jalannagar,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Kajal Das,
S/o- Late Gopal Chadra Keot,
R/o- Alubari Line,
PS- Jalannagar,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri A. Borgohain, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 58/15
G.R. Case No. 2094/15

State of Assam
‘i Vs-

Sri Kajal Das

Charges: Under Sections 4/8/18 POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 19-04-16, 17-05-16, 15-06-16, 14-07-16 & 06-10-16.
Date of argument : 30-03-17.
Date of Judgment —_: 26-05-17.

JUDGMENT

1) Prosecution case as portrayed by the ejahar is that on 01-08-15, the victim,
say ‘X’ returned from tuition at about 6:00 pm and informed her father Sri
Krishna Keot (hereinafter the complainant) that her tutor Sri Kajal Das
(hereinafter the accused) during tuition hours disrobed her by undoing her
pant. He kissed her private parts, breast, face and forcefully tried to assault
her sexually and with that intention, gagged her and forcefully pushed her on
the bed in his attempt to commit rape. An ejahar regarding this incident was
lodged by the complainant with Borbari Outpost and GDE No. 20 dtd.
01-08-15 was registered and the ejahar was forwarded to the police station
which was registered as Dibrugarh PS Case No. 623/15 under Section 4 of
the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act in
short).

2) The investigating officer (IO in short) swung into action and embarked upon
the investigation. He went to the place of occurrence and prepared Sketch-
Map and recorded the statements of witnesses. He forwarded the victim for
medical examination and for recording her statement under Section 164 of
the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC in short). He submitted Charge-Sheet
against the accused under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

3) On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished. After hearing both the
4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

9)

sides, a formal charge under Section 8 and under Section 4/18 of the POCSO
Act was framed and read over and explained to the accused. The accused
abjured his guilt and claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of seven
witnesses including the IO whereas the accused adduced the evidence of two
witnesses in defence. All the witnesses were cross-examined in rebuttal. The
prosecution also exhibited several documents in support of the evidence. On
the circumstances arising against him, the answers of the accused on the
questions under Section 313 CrPC were that of total denial. The accused
admitted that he was the victim’s tutor.
SUBMISSIONS:
The learned Public Prosecutor Smti. Runumi Devi submitted that this case has
been proved beyond reasonable doubt and stringent punishment ought to be
inflicted to the accused. On the contrary, the learned defence counsel Sri A.
Borgohain stated that a false case has been foisted against the accused. The
accused deserves acquittal.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

On the backdrop of the rival contentions proponed at the bar, the points
apposite to be decided in this case are:

1. Whether on 01-08-15, at Alubari Line at Jalan Nagar, the

accused committed sexual assault on the minor victim?
2. Whether at the same time and place, the accused attempted
to commit penetrative sexual assault on the minor victim?
DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

To decide the case in its right perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence.
The victim was asked several questions to assess her intelligence. My learned
predecessor was Satisfied that the victim was intelligent and could give
rational answers.
The victim X testified as PW-1 that the accused person was a teacher and
she used to take tuition in his house. The incident took place on a Saturday.
At the time of the incident, she was a student of Class-V. The incident took
place on the previous year. She used to go with Smti. Anupama Das to the
accused person’s house for her tuitions. The tuitions started at 6:00 pm every

evening. The accused started taking tuition a week prior to the alleged
incident. On the evening of the incident, Anupama did not accompany her to
the accused person’s house as it was 6:00 pm. As she was alone on that
evening, the accused took her inside his room for the class. Usually the
accused used to take tuition on the verandah. But on that day, as she was
alone, he took her inside his room. During class on that evening, while she
was busy writing, the accused went near her and kissed on her lips and
thereafter, he took off her panty and kissed on her tummy. At that time, she
kicked the accused and left his house after collecting her books. She left
crying and reached home and narrated about the incident to her mother and
her mother in turn informed her father about the incident. Thereafter, her
father went to the accused person’s house and caught him and brought him
back to their house and gave him two slaps. The neighbourers also
assembled in their house and took the accused to the police station on the
said night. She and her mother also accompanied her father to the police
station on the said night. She narrated the incident to the police who
recorded her statement. Police brought her to the hospital for examination on
the 3 day of the alleged incident. She also came to the Court for recording
of her statement by the Magistrate. Ext. 1 is her statement recorded by the
Magistrate and Ext. 1(1) and Ext. 1(2) are her signatures.

10) In her cross-examination, she stated that she started her tuition classes two
weeks prior to the incident. The accused person’s younger brother along with
his wife and two children, his mother and the accused reside in the same
house. The accused is an unmarried person and works as Anganwadi School
teacher. His family members were present on the day of the incident, but she
did not inform them about the incident. When she came out of the accused
person’s room, she did not find any of his family members outside the house.
She further stated in her cross-examination that Smti. Sanjana Kalandi is a
student of Class-VII and is known to her. She stated that she was preparing
for her scholarship examination and so she had taken tuition classes from the
accused person. On the day of the incident, the accused informed her that
Sanjana Kalandi would also come to his house. She denied the suggestion by
the defence that Sanjana was present before she reached the accused
person’s house on the alleged day of the incident. She also denied that
Sanjana was also present in the same room with her on the alleged day of

the incident. She also denied that Sanjana left the house only after her
departure.

11) Her evidence is corroborated and supported by the evidence of her mother
who testified as PW-2 that her victim daughter is at present 12 (twelve) years
old. The alleged incident took place on the previous year during summer
season. On that day, at about 6:00 pm, her daughter went to the accused
person’s house for tuition classes. After returning home at about 7:00 pm,
her daughter began to cry and then she asked her daughter why she was
crying to which her daughter replied that she went alone to the accused
person's house for the classes and no other student was present in the
house. Then the accused kissed her, took off her panty and sought to touch
his penis against her private part, but she pushed away the accused person
and returned home. At that time, her husband was in his own shop situated
near their house. She (PW-2) went to her husband and informed him about
the incident. Learning about the incident, her husband went to the accused
person's house and brought him to their house and gave him two slaps.
Thereafter, her husband along with the other neighbours took the accused to
the police station on the same day. She along with her daughter went to the
police station. She narrated the incident to the police and her husband lodged
an ejhar against the accused person. On the 3 day of the incident, the
police took her to the Assam Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh for
examination and also to the Court for recoding of her statement by the
Magistrate. She also accompanied her daughter to the Court. Her cross-
examination will be discussed at the appropriate stage.

12)The evidence of PW-1 and PW-2 is also supported and corroborated by the
evidence of Sri Krishna Keot. He is the victim's father and he testified as PW-
3 that his daughter is at present 11 (eleven) years old. The alleged incident
took place in the month of August, 2015. On the evening of the incident,
while he was in his shop, his wife went and informed him that when his
daughter went to the accused person’s house for her tuition class, the
accused committed the shameful act on his daughter. This has been stated by
the PW-2 that as soon as she heard about the incident, she went and
narrated about the incident to her husband who was in his shop near the
house. He testified that on receiving the information, he went to the accused
person’s house after he heard about the incident. He further testified that he

found his elder brother in the accused person’s house and his elder brother
caught the accused and they both took the accused person to their house
and charged him about the incident. His daughter was also present at that
time when he asked the accused about the incident. PW-3 further stated that
his daughter told him that the accused kissed her and wanted to take off her
panty. Thereafter, he slapped the accused person and took him to the police
station. A person who resides near the police station wrote the ejahar for him
according to his narrative. He also lodged the ejahar with the police. Ext. 2 is
the ejahar and Ext. 2(1) is his signature. Police also recorded his statement at
the police station. On the 3 day of the alleged incident, police took his
daughter to the AMCH for examination. His daughter was also forwarded to
the Court for recording of her statement by the Magistrate. To avoid prolixity,
the cross-examination of PW-3 will be discussed at the appropriate stage.

13) The evidence of PW-1, 2 & 3 is augmented by the evidence of Smti. Dasami
Keot who testified as PW-4. She stated that the victim X is her niece. The
incident took place on 01-08-15. On the evening of the incident, at about
6:30 pm, while she was sitting in the victim's house, the victim came running
to her house and told her mother that while she was alone in the accused
person’s house attending her tuition class, the accused kissed her and took
off her panty and then she pushed away the accused person and came home
running. She was present in the victim’s house when the victim narrated the
incident to her mother. The victim's mother Smti. Nirmala Keot went and
informed about the incident to her husband. This part of the evidence of Sri
Krishna Keot supports the evidence of PW-2 & 3 that when Nirmala was
informed about the incident, she went and informed about the incident to her
husband in his shop. The victim’s father and his elder brother went to the
accused person’s house and brought him back to their house. This part of the
evidence also corroborates the evidence of Sri Krishna Keot that as soon as
he heard about the incident about his daughter, he went to the accused
person’s house and then he and his elder brother brought the accused to
their house. PW-4 further testified that several villagers gathered and Sri
Krishna Keot took the accused to the police station.

14) The evidence of PW-3 & 4 is also corroborated by the evidence of PW-5. Sri
Kajal Keot testified as PW-5 that the victim is his niece. The incident took
place in the year 2015. On the evening of the incident, at about 6:00 pm,

while he was in his shop near his brother Sri Krishna Keot’s house, his wife
Dasami Keot hurriedly came to his shop and informed him that while X was in
the accused person’s house attending her tuition class, he tried to molest her
because at that time, the victim was alone in the accused person’s house. He
immediately closed his shop and informed Rajen Munda about the incident
and then he went to the accused person’s house. He found the accused
person and asked him about the incident and took the accused towards his
house. On the way, he met his brother Sri Krishna Keot. Krishna slapped the
accused and at that time, several villagers gathered there. So they
immediately took the accused to the police station. As he was embarrassed,
he did not ask the victim about the incident. The victim X and her parents
went to the police station and his brother lodged an ejahar with the police.
During investigation, the police seized an underwear belonging to the victim.
Ext. 3 is the Seizure-List and Ext. 3(1) is his signature.

15)PW-3 Sri Krishna Keot has categorically stated that when he went to the
accused person's house, he met his brother with the accused and this part of
the evidence is corroborated by his brother’s evidence. His brother PW-5
stated that while he was on his way to Krishna's house along with the
accused person, he met his brother. There is a minor contradiction regarding
the place where Krishna met his brother which can be ignored, because the
fact remains the same. Krishna testified that he met his brother in his house
with the accused after the incident while his brother Kajal Keot testified that
he and the accused met Krishna on the way. All the witnesses PW-3, 4 & 5
stated that Krishna and Kajal Keot came back to the house of Krishna Keot
along with the accused. All the witnesses PW-1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 have categorically
stated that when Krishna Keot learnt about the incident, he slapped the
accused person. This is indeed an open and shut case. The evidence of two
DWs could not rebut the evidence of all the prosecution witnesses.

16) Smti. Sanjana Kalandi testified as DW-1 that the victim X is known to her. She
was invited by the accused to help X with her studies, because she was a
recipient of scholarship. The accused was a tutor. On the day of the incident,
she was present along with X in the accused person’s house. The accused
person's mother, his sister-in-law and his two nephews were also present in
the house. She was in the accused person’s house for about three hours and
when the accused asked them to go home, she and the victim went home.

She stated that no incident took place.
17) The accused had indeed taken a very weak plea and the evidence of DW-1
does not at all inspire confidence. One cannot decipher from the evidence
adduced by DW-1 as to what she was referring to. Did she refer to the date
of the incident and has she tried to transpire that on the day of the incident,
she was present. Then why she did not mention the date. On the contrary,
she has stated in her cross-examination that she did not meet X after the
incident. If she did not meet X after the incident, the how did she know that
the incident took place as X did not mention anything about the incident.

18) Smti. Pallabi Kalandi also tried to shield the accused person. She testified as
DW-2 that Sanjana is her daughter and she is a student of Class-VII. The
accused is a teacher and he was her daughter's tutor. The accused helped her
with her scholarship examination and after receiving scholarship, her
daughter used to go to the accused person’s house from time to time. She
further testified that on 01-08-15, Krishna Keot lodged an ejahar against the
accused with allegation that his daughter was misbehaved by the accused in
the evening. Her daughter went to the accused person’s house on the
previous evening and she came to know from her daughter that X was
present in the accused person’s house along with her daughter. She knew
that Krishna Keot lodged a false case, because her daughter was present on
the previous evening along with X and her daughter did not inform her about
any incident in the accused person's house on the previous night.

19) This evidence of DW-2 also does not inspire confidence. It is not believable
that a student who receives scholarship will go to her tutor’s house and help
him with his tutorial classes. Pallabi’s daughter is a student and not a teacher.
It is not fathomable that a tutor will require assistance of an ex-student that
too, from such a young girl like Sanjana to help him with his tutorial classes.
The evidence of DW-2 is too farfetched and sketchy and does not at all
inspire confidence. Her evidence does not rebut the evidence elicited by the
prosecution. Both mother and daughter appears to be favourably disposed
towards the accused and their statements belie the evidence.

20) The core issue could not be nullified. The evidence of the IO also supports
the prosecution evidence. Through the cross-examination of the IO, the
evidence of the PWs could not be controverted or contradicted. All the
witnesses were confronted by the defence counsel, but no contradiction could

be elicited by the cross-examination of the IO.
21)The IO Sri Tuseswar Baruah testified as PW-7 that on 01-08-15, he was at
Borbari Outpost as ASI of Police. On that day, at about 8:00 pm, several
villagers from Alubari Line came to the Outpost and on their complaint, the
In-Charge made a GDE No. 18 dtd. 01-08-15 and took custody of the person
and directed him to investigate the case. The accused person was the person
who was brought by the villagers. On the same day, at about 10:15 pm,
Krishna Keot lodged an ejahar which was registered as Borbari Outpost GDE
No. 20 dtd. 01-08-15 and the same was forwarded to the Officer-in-charge of
the Dibrugarh Police Station. The ejhar was registered as Dibrugarh PS Case
No. 623/15 under Section 4 of the POCSO Act. He embarked upon the
investigation, recorded the statements of the witnesses. He seized underwear
from the victim. Ext. 3 is the Seizure-List and Ext. 3(2) is his signature.
Material Ext. 1 is the underwear of the victim which he seized on 01-08-15.
On the following day, he went to the place of occurrence and prepared
Sketch-Map. Ext. 4 is the Sketch-Map and Ext. 4(1) is his signature.
Thereafter, on the next day, the woman constable recorded the statement of
the victim and then she was taken to the AMCH for examination. The victim
was forwarded to the Magistrate for recording her statement under Section
164 CrPC. On 02-08-15, he arrested the accused and forwarded him to the
Court. After completion of investigation, he submitted the Charge-Sheet
against the accused. Ext. 4 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 4(1) is his signature.

22) The only contradictions elicited from the IO is that Kajal Keot did not state
before him that after receiving the information from his wife, he immediately
informed Rajen Munda and then he brought the accused person to his own
house and on the way, he met his brother Krishna Keot, who gave two tight
Slaps to the accused person and the villagers assembled. He took the accused
person to the police station to protect him.

23)In my foregoing discussions, it has already been held that this is a minor
contradiction which can be safely ignored. The core issue could not be
impeached. There is clinching evidence that the accused taking the
opportunity of the victim being alone in his house, kissed on her lips and took
off her panty and then kissed her tummy. The victim’s mother stated that the
accused sought to touch his penis against her private part. Both the victim
and her mother testified that when the accused removed the victim’s panty,

the victim pushed him away. There is nothing to disbelieve this witness.
10

24) At this stage, it is germane to mention that the learned defence counsel
emphasized in his argument that in Jummi vs. State of Haryana, [CrLJ
1936 (SC) 914], it was held by the Hon’ble Supreme Court that-

Reliability of evidence of child witness.- A Court to
form an opinion from circumstances as to whether the
witness is able to understand duty of talking truth and in
case of a child witness, Court has to ascertain that the
witness might have not been tutored. Evidence of child
must be evaluated more carefully and with greater
circumspection because a Child is susceptible to be
conveyed by what near and dear ones told him to do.

25) Reverting to this case, it is held that the child witness in this case is also the
victim. Her evidence is corroborated by the evidence of all the other
witnesses. No deviation or contradiction could be detected. The evidence of
all the witnesses remained unscathed and unimpeached. I would like to rely
on the decision of the Hon'ble Gauhati High Court in Manik Medhi vs. State
of Assam and another [2016 (3) GLT 419], wherein it has been held that-

"24, It is a settled position of law that once the statement
of the prosecutrix inspires confidence, conviction can be
based only on the solitary evidence of the prosecutrix and
no corroboration would be required unless there are
compelling reasons which necessitate the Court to look for
corroboration of her statement. If the substratum of the
prosecution case is found to be wholly reliable and the
evidence of the victim is found convincing and inspiring, it
will not be necessary for the Court to go on looking for
corroborating evidence.”

26) Reverting back to this case, it has already been held that the evidence of the
witnesses could not be impeached. The statement of the victim before the
Magistrate is also consistent. Ext. 1 is the statement of the victim recorded by
the Magistrate. It is apt to mention at this stage that the witnesses PW-1, 2 &
3 were not cross-examined regarding their previous statements before the
IO. Their evidence has not been controverted and contradicted by the cross-
examination of the IO. It has already been held in my foregoing discussions

that the evidence of the defence witnesses does not inspire confidence.
11

Moreover, the evidence elicited by the defence could not project the motive
behind foisting a case against the accused. There appears to be no reason
assigned by the defence as to why the prosecutrix will foist a case against the
accused.

27) It is also apt to mention at this stage that no overt act could be attributed to
the accused in his attempt to commit rape. PW-1 is the prosecutrix and her
evidence is taken into account. She testified that the accused removed her
panty, but she did not state that the accused attempted to commit rape on
her. Her evidence depicts that the accused kissed her tummy and removed
her panty. Besides this, no overt act was described by the victim. But the
victim has clearly testified that the accused committed sexual assault. Her
evidence does not depict that the accused attempted to commit penetrative
sexual assault on her. But her evidence clearly depicts that the accused
committed sexual assault on her, without penetration.

28) Recapitulating the evidence, it is held that the prosecution failed to prove
beyond reasonable doubt that the accused attempted to commit penetrative
sexual assault on the victim, but the prosecution could prove beyond
reasonable doubt that the accused committed sexual assault on the victim.
There is clinching evidence that the accused with sexual intent kissed
the victim and removed her panty and kissed the victim on her lips
and kissed her tummy. The accused did act with sexual intent which
involves physical contact without penetration. The accused is thereby
held guilty of offence under Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

29)I have heard the accused on the quantum of sentence. He has stated that he
is innocent and he has to look after his parents and brothers. He has prayed
for acquittal.

30)Considering the gravity of the offence and considering the facts and
circumstances of this case, I believe that a sentence to imprisonment for 3
(three) years will meet the ends of justice. The offence is of such a grave
nature that it should be abhorred by the society and a punishment to
imprisonment for 3 (three) years will also act a deterrent. It will also send a
message to the public at large. The victim is of an impressionable age and it
can be easily anticipated to what extent the offence traumatized her.

SENTENCE:
31) The accused Sri Kajal Das is convicted under Section 8 of the POCSO Act and
12

is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 3 (three) years and pay a
fine of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand) only and in default of payment of
fine, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 1 (one) month. The period of
detention of the accused during investigation and trial is set of with his
custodial sentence.

32) This case is also recommended for compensation to the victim. Send a copy
of this judgment to the Secretary, DLSA, Dibrugarh for assessment of
compensation to the victim.

33) The seized items be disposed of as per law.

34) Furnish free copies of this judgment to the convict immediately and send a
copy to the District Magistrate, Dibrugarh.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 26" day of
May, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Contd.
13

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 The victim X;
2. PW-2 Smti. Nirmala Keot;
3. PW-3_ Sri Krishna Keot;
4. PW-4 Smti. Dasami Keot;
5. PW-5 Sri Kajal Keot;
6. PW-6 Sri Rajen Munda;
7. PW-7 Sri Tuseswar Baruah;
8. DW-1 Smti. Sanaja Kalandi;
9. DW-2 Smti. Pallabi Kalandi.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Seizure-List;
4. Ext. 4 Sketch-Map; and
5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
