CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 65/16

Informant: Y",

Accused: Md. Suga Hussain,
S/o- Md. Raju Hussain,
R/o- Maijan Thakurbari,
PS- Dibrugarh,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: A. Sayeed, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 65/16
G.R. Case No. 2005/16

State of Assam
we Vs-

Md. Suga Hussain

Charges: Under Sections 376 IPC, read with Section 4 POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 20-09-17, 15-11-17, 05-02-18, 15-03-18 and 20-07-18.
Date of argument : 20-03-19.
Date of Judgment —_: 26-04-19.

1)

2)

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in a narrow compass is that on 21-07-16, at about
11:30 pm, Md. Suga Hussain (hereinafter the accused person) induced the
sixteen year old victim 'X' to go with him and took her into Maijan LP School
and solicited her for objectionable activities and were caught red handed by
the public. The accused was sent away, while the victim was handed over to
'Y'. An ejahar regarding this incident was lodged by ‘Y’ and a Borbari Outpost
GD Entry No. 561 dtd. 22-07-16 was registered and the FIR was forwarded
which was registered as Dibrugarh PS Case No. 571/16 under Sections 354-A
of the Indian Penal Code (IPC for short), read with Section 8 of the Protection
of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act for short).

The investigating officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation. He
forwarded the victim for medical examination and also forwarded her to the
Magistrate who recorded her statement. He recorded the statements of other

witnesses. He went to the place of occurrence and recorded the statements
3)

4)

5)

6)

7)

of the other witnesses. On finding prima facie materials, he submitted
Charge-Sheet against the accused under Section 376 IPC, read with Section 4
POCSO Act.
On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
the sides, a formal charge under Section 376 IPC, read with Section 8 POCSO
Act was framed, read over and explained to the accused. The accused
abjured his guilt and claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of eight
witnesses including the medical officer (MO for short) and the IO and
exhibited several documents. On the inculpatory circumstances arising
against him, the answers of the accused to the questions under Section 313
(1)(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC for short) depicts a plea of
total denial.
I have heard the arguments forwarded by both the sides.
Points for determination:
i. Whether on 21-07-16, at about 11:30 pm, the accused
committed rape on the victim 'X'?
ii. Whether at the same time and place, the accused
committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim inside
Maijan LP School?
Decision thereon and the reasons for the decision:

To decide this case in its proper perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence.
The victim 'X' testified as PW-1 that the alleged incident occurred about a
year ago. She got acquainted with the accused when she used to commute to

her school. One day, the accused called her over phone and she went out and
8)

9)

met him and he took her to the school at night. He forcefully committed rape
on her, after removing her dress. When she tried to resist, the accused held
her hand and feet and gagged her, preventing her from screaming. When the
people saw the accused in the school, the accused fled and left her in the
school. The people then called her parents and then her mahi (aunt) called
the police. On the following day, the police called her to the police station and
recorded her statement. Her mother lodged an ejahar with the police on the
following day. The police forwarded her for medical examination. She was
also forwarded to the Magistrate who recorded her statement. Ext. 1 is her
statement and Ext. 1(1) upto Ext. 1(3) are her signatures.

It is pertinent to mention at this juncture that the testimony of the witness is
far fetched and sketchy. It is not possible that she will be able to go out of
her house in the middle of the night without informing her parents. Her
conduct depicts that she had a love relationship with the accused. It is clear
that she willingly went out. She has mentioned in her statement under
Section 164 CrPC that she had a love relationship with the accused and she
stopped her relationship, because she learnt that the accused was not a good
person. When she was caught red handed in the act, she falsely entangled
the accused in an apathetic manner.

In her cross-examination, she testified that her parents knew about her
relationship with the accused person and they used to oppose this
relationship, because the accused was of Islam faith. She admitted in her
cross-examination that she stealthily went out of her house when her parents
were sleeping and met the accused person on the fateful night. She has also
admitted in her cross-examination that her marriage was solemnized with

another boy in the month of October, 2016 and at present, she is blessed
with a baby girl.

10) It is clear from the evidence of PW-1 that she stealthily went of the house
and met the accused. It is clearly depicted that she relied on the accused and
did not hesitate to go out in the middle of the night.

11) The victim's mother 'Y' testified as PW-2 that the incident occurred about a
year ago. On the midnight of the incident, at 12:00 O’ clock, she received
information from Sri Kamal Bageri over phone that her daughter was found
inside Maijan LP School. At that time, she was sleeping and found her missing
when she received the phone call. Then she went to the school along with
her husband. The villagers informed her that her daughter was undressed
and found naked and the accused had committed rape on her and the
villagers covered her body. Her daughter informed her that the accused called
her over phone and dragged her into the school and then he committed rape
on her. Meanwhile, the police arrived in the school. On the following day, she
went to the police station along with her daughter. On the previous night, she
took her daughter from the school to her sister’s house. When she and her
daughter went to the school, the police recorded their statements. She
lodged the ejahar Ext. 2 wherein Ext. 2(1) is her signature. Her daughter was
forwarded for medical examination.

12)In her cross-examination, she admitted that her daughter was not allowed to
use the mobile phone, but her daughter used the mobile phone stealthily. She
further testified in her cross-examination that she came to know about her
daughter’s relationship with the accused after the incident.

13)It is pertinent to mention at this juncture that PW-2 contradicted her own
statement when she testified in her cross-examination that her brother

Chandan assaulted the accused person prior to the instant case and then she
learnt about the relationship between the accused and her daughter. This has
been admitted by PW-1 in her cross-examination when she testified that the
accused lodged a case against her mama (Chandan) when her mama
assaulted him for her relationship with the accused person. Her mama caused
serious bleeding injuries on the accused person.

14) It is amply clear from the cross-examination of PW-2 that she was not willing
to disclose that she had knowledge about her daughter’s relationship with the
accused person and so lied when she testified in her cross-examination that
she learnt about her daughter's relationship with the accused after this
incident. But it is clear from the cross-examination of PWs-1 and 2 that there
was an incident of assault and the accused already lodged a case against
PW-2's brother for the assault and so PW-2 was well aware of her daughter’s
relationship with the accused person. Thus, the defence could impeach the
credit of the witnesses. The evidence of the witnesses casts a shadow of
doubt over their veracity. When her daughter was found in a compromising
condition with the accused person by the villagers, they immediately shifted
the burden on the accused person of being complicit. PWs-1 and 2 tried to
project that the accused forced PW-1 into having the objectionable
relationship on that night in the Maijan school. While analysing the evidence,
the one has to read between the lines. It is clear from the evidence of PWs-1
and 2 that they are not reliable. To save the reputation of PW-1, they have
foisted this case against the accused person.

15) Sri Kamal Bageri testified as PW-3 that the accused resides behind his house.
The victim is not known to him. The incident occurred about a year ago. At
that time, he was the President of the VDP. On the day of the incident, at

about 11:00 pm, the police called him over phone and he went to the victim’s
aunt's (mahi)’s house. He came to know from the victim's mahi Babli that the
police brought one girl from Maijan LP School and she was _ being
interrogated. He heard from the people gathered at Babli Dey’s house that
both the victim and the accused were found inside Maijan LP School.

16) This can be deciphered from the evidence of PW-3 that Sri Kamal Bageri had
no knowledge of any sexual assault upon the victim by the accused. He is the
same person who informed the victim’s mother that the victim was found
inside Maijan LP School. Had there been any incident of assault, the VDP
members would have definitely testified of such assault. He testified in his
cross-examination that he knew the accused person since he was a kid. He
denied any knowledge about any sexual assault. On the contrary he
(PW-3) testified in his cross-examination that the victim and the accused had
a love relationship.

17) Similarly, Md. Bhigu Hussain testified as PW-4 that the incident took place
about a year ago. His house is at a distance from the accused person's house.
On the next day of occurrence, his friend called him over phone and informed
him that a minor girl was found inside the Maijan LP School. He went out and
he met the police and the police asked him about the direction to the victim's
house. This witness also did not implicate that the accused committed sexual
assault on the victim.

18) Another witness Md. Rakibuddin Ahmed testified as PW-5 that the incident
occurred about six months ago. On the night of the incident, at about 11/12
O’ clock midnight, one person called him over phone and informed that
somebody went inside the Maijan LP School and then he went there and
found the victim and the accused person in the verandah of the school and

other people were assembled there. As the victim’s aunt resides nearby, they
informed her aunt. The VDP President was also informed and took the victim
to her aunt Babli Day’s house. This witness denied any knowledge about any
sexual assault.

19) It is pertinent to mention at this juncture that the victim’s aunt did not at all
implicate that the accused committed sexual assault on the victim. She was
the first person to learn about the incident, because she was informed about
the victim’s presence in the LP School.

20) Smt. Babli Seal testified as PW-6 that the victim is her niece and her younger
sister’s daughter. The alleged incident took place about 1 %2 months ago. On
the next day of the incident, the villagers came and informed her that the
victim was found inside Maijan LP School. Then she along with her husband
went to the school and found 'X' in the school with many other people who
were also assembled. The victim informed her that the accused called her
and so she went to the school. Her mother sent 'X' to her house. After one
hour, police came to her house. The police recorded her statement.

21)In her cross-examination, she testified that she learnt on that day that the
victim had a love relationship with the accused.

22) Thus truth surfaced, and Babli Seal truthfully testified that her niece had a
love relationship with the accused. Her niece informed her that the accused
called her. It is amply clear from her testimony that her niece did not accused
Suga Hussain of having penetrative sexual assault upon her.

23)I would like to focus the attention on the Medico-legal Report. Dr. Nibedita
Shyam testified as PW-7 that on 23-07-16, while working as GDMO in the
Department of Forensic Medicine, Assam Medical College & Hospital at
Dibrugarh, she examined the victim in connection with this case. Yet her

opinion is that the victim was above fourteen years and below sixteen years
of age. No evidence of recent sexual assault could be detected on the victim’s
body. The evidence of recent injury could not be detected on her private part.
It is thus clear that no injury could be detected on the victim’s private part.
Thus, there is no evidence of sexual assault. Both the accused and the victim
were caught red handed. Although the victim is found to be below sixteen
years of age, the accused is given the benefit of three years on the higher
side of sixteen years. So this stretches the age of the victim upto nineteen
years. The victim was a consenting party. Her evidence does not inspire
confidence. The accused is not held guilty of offence of sexual assault. It is
held that the evidence of Babli Seal clearly reveals that the prosecution failed
to prove that the accused committed sexual assault on the victim. Even
though PWs-1 and 2 tried to fasten the guilt on the accused, yet it is held
that the prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the
accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim.

24) The IO is a formal witness and he conducted investigation. The IO SI Dilip
Kumar Chutia testified as PW-8 that on 22-07-18, he was on duty at Borbari
Outpost as Second Officer. On that day, ‘Y’ lodged an ejahar and Borbari
Outpost GD Entry No. 581/16 was registered and forwarded to Dibrugarh
Police Station and this case was registered and he continued with the
investigation. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext. 2(2) is the signature of SI Dipendra
Chetia with his endorsement.

25) After carefully analyzing the evidence of the witnesses, it is held that the
prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused is
complicit. The victim's evidence does not inspire confidence.

26)In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that the prosecution

failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused committed rape on
10

the victim 'X'. It is held that the victim was a consenting party. The victim is
also held to be a major by giving the benefit of three years on the higher side
of the age of the victim given by the MO. The prosecution also failed to prove
beyond reasonable doubt that the accused committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim. Thereby, the accused Md. Suga Hussain is acquitted
from the charges under Sections 376 IPC, read with Section 4 POCSO Act on
benefit of doubt and is set at liberty forthwith.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 26" day of

April, 2019.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Contd.
11

APPENDIX
POCSO Case No. 65/16

List of witnesses for prosecution:
1. PW-1 The victim;
2. PW-2 The informant;
3. PW-3 Sri Kamal Bageri;
4. PW-4 Md. Bhigu Hussain;
5. PW-5 Md. Rakibuddin Ahmed;
6. PW-6 Smt. Babli Seal;
7. PW-7 Dr. Nibedita Shyam;
8. PW-8 SI Dilip Kumar Chutia.
List of exhibits for prosecution:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Medico-legal Report;
4. Ext. 4 Sketch-Map; and
5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.
List of material exhibits for prosecution: Nil.
List of witnesses for defence: Nil.

List of exhibits for defence: Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
