Page 1 of 8

_IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 20 of 2017

Under section 5(g)/5(p)/5(I) of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Tezpur PS Case No. 1310 of 2016)

State of Assam

-Vs-
1. Md.Ainul Haque
2. Md. Abdul Rejek
3. Md. Gulzar Hussain ... ........... Accused Persons
Present : Smti I. Barman, AJS

Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State

For the accused Ainul Haque :
For the accused Ainul Haque :
For the accused Ainul Haque :

Mr. S. Maitra,
Special Public Prosecutor.

Mr. D. Baruah , Advocate.
Mr. E. Alam , Advocate.
Mr. D. Borah , Advocate

Date of Argument 02-01-2020.
Date of Judgment 06-01-2020.
UDGMENT
1. The prosecution case against the accused persons as

projected in the FIR (Ext. 3), in brief, is that on 30-07-2016 at around
9.00 PM, when the informant's 16 years old daughter came to the
road accused Ainul Haque,Abdul Rezek and Gulzar Hussain had
taken away the victim by a bike to some unknown place and

committed rape on her.

 
Page 2 of 8

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.3) on 02-08-2016 from the
informant (PW2) with the I/C Salonibari Outpost, GDE Case No. 47
dated 02.08.16 was entered and on forwarding the same to the O/C,
Tezpur P.S. Case No. 1310/2017 u/s 366 (A)/376 of IPC r/w section 4
of POCSO Act was registered and launched investigation of the case.
During investigation, the investigating Officer recorded the
statement of the witnesses, got recorded the statement of the victim
u/s 164 Cr.P.C., sent the victim for medical exmamination: and on
completion of investigation having found materials, laid. charge
sheet against the accused Ainul Haque and absconder Abdul Rezak
and Gulzar Hussain u/s 366(A)/376(D)/34 of IPC r/w section 4 of
POCSO Act and the case was transferred to. the court of the learned
Addl. Sessions Judge (FTC) Sonitpur, Tezpur for disposal.

3. On producing.the accused persons, after furnishing the
copies of the documents as required u/s 207 of Cr.PC. and after
going through the police report and having heard both parties,
Charge for offence u/s 5(g) and 5 (p) of POCSO Act against accused
Abdul Rezak and for offence u/s 5(l) of POCSO Act was framed
against accused Gulzar Hussain. Particulars of the charge on being
read over and explained to the accused persons, they pleaded not
guilty and claimed for trial. Lateron the case was withdrawn to this
court for disposal on transfer of the Ld Addl. Sessions Judge (FTC),
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined only 3(three)
witnesses. On closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of the
accused persons were recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the accused
denied the allegations and declined to adduce evidence.

5. | have heard the argument of the learned counsel of both
sides and also have gone through the materials on record.
Page 3 of 8

6. Points for decisions-

(1) Whether the accused Ainul Haque and Abdul Rezak on 30-07-
2016 at Rupkuria under Chariduar Police Station committed gang
penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl Miss “X”, and
thereby committed an offence under section 5(g) of POCSO Act
punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act.

(2) Whether the accused Abdul Rezak on 30-07-2016 at
Rupkuria under Chariduar Police Station being related uncle of
the victim, committed penetrative sexual assault _on her and
thereby committed an offence under section 5(p) of POCSO Act
punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act.

(3) Whether the accused Gulzar’ Hussain on 31-07-2016 and
thereafter committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim
girl Miss “X” more than once. and thereby committed an offence
under section 5(1) of POCSO Act punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act.

Discussions, Decisions and reasons thereof :

 

7. In order to appreciate the argument advanced on behalf of
both the sides, it is considered next to outline a sketch of the

evidence on record.

8. PW 1 Dr. Tutumoni Hadique the medical officer in her
evidence stated that on 02-08-16, in reference to Salonibari OP GD
Entry no. 47 dated 02-08-16, she examined the victim Miss 'X' who
gave history of elopment with a known person on 30" July and
rescued on 1* August from Jagiroad. On examination of the victim
found her hymen absent but no injury on her body or private part
was found. The medical officer opined that the victim is below 18
years. She proved the medical report as Ext. 1. During cross she
stated that the age of the victim girl may vary on either side.

 
Page 4 of 8

9. PW2 the informant as well as the father of the victim in his
evidence stated that due to quarrel between the victim and her in-
laws, they brought the victim to his house. But after two days, the
victim had quarrelled with her(victim) sister and out of anger she
went out of the house to go to Kerala where her husband resided.
On the way the victim asked for money from the accused persons.
Thereafter she boarded in a vehicle to proceed towards Jagiroad
and then finding her somebody took her to Jagiroad police station.
On being informed by police, he went to Jagiroad PS and filed the
FIR as per dictation of police but lateron he came to know that the
allegations on the accused persons are false. During cross he
admitted that victim is a married woman and at the time of
marriage, she was above 18 years old.

10. PW3 the victim Miss 'X' in her evidence stated that on the day
of the incident at around 11 AM a qaurrel took place between her
husband and her mother in her husband's house and thereafter her
mother brought.her to her parental house. But after 2/3 days, in
the evening. time, a quarrel took place between her and her sister
Sehnaz and then out of anger she came out of the house to go to
Kerala. On the way she met all the three accused persons and
asked money from them to go to Kerala. But they refused and
asked her to go back home. Then she came to Tezpur by auto and
went to Guwhati by bus, but at Jagiroad one person when heard
from her that she was going to Kerala, he handed over her to
Jagiroad Police station. Thereafter her parents brought her back to
Goroimari. At Goroimari out post, police rebuked her and asked her
to say that the accused persons raped her. She proved her
statement u/s 164 Cr.PC as Ext.2.During cross she stated that she
gave her statement before the Magistarte as tutored by the police.
She clearly stated that the three accused persons whom she met
while coming out of the house to go to Kerala, asked her to return
home, but none of them did commit any bad act with her. She
further stated that when she asked Gulzar Hussain who is her uncle

 
Page 5 of 8

in relation for money to go to Kerala, he rebuked her and asked to
return home. She admitted that after attaining 18 years, she

entered into marriage.

11. In the case, the informant as well as the father of the
victim(PW2) in the FIR mentioned the age of the victim as 15 years.
But during cross the informant as well as the victim admitted that
the victim got married after attaining 18 years of age and the
incident occurred thereafter. Although as per the medical evidence
the victim is below 18 years of age at the time of the incident, but
it is well settled that medical evidence is not conclusive proof and it
can vary two years on either side. The medical officer. also
admitted in cross examination that the age may vary on either
side. Moreover when the victim and her father who are the best
persons to know the exact age, mentioned the age of the victim
above as 18 years at the relevant time, it can be safely held that
she was a major one at the time of icident. In the above evidence, |
unhesitatingly held that the victim. is a major girl at the time of the

incident.

12. Now,let.us see whether the accused persons committed any
offence. As per the ejahar, the alleged offence is that on the day of
the incident when the victim came to the road, accused persons
had abducted her by a motor cycle and committed rape on her. But
the victim in deposition stated that on the day of the incident after
quarrel with her sister, out of anger she came out of her parental
house with intend to go to Kerala, where her husband works and on
the way she seeing the accused persons on the road, asked them
for money. But when they refused, she boarded in a bus to go to
Guwahati. On her way, she met a person, who enquired her where
she was going and when she replied that she was going to Kerala,
the person advised her not to go to Kerala alone and took her to
Jagiroad police station wherefrom her parents brought her to
Goroimari. She admitted in her cross examination that she gave
her statement before the Magistrate as tutored by the police of
Goroimari outpost. She clearly denied the allegations levelled

 
Page 6 of 8

against the accused persons. The informant in the same tune
stated that on the day of the incident after a quarrel, out of anger
the victim came out of thier house with intent to go to Kerala and
boarded a vehicle towards Jagiroad and then somebody had taken
her to Jagiroad police station.

16. The version of the victim and her father themselves clearly
indicates that neither the victim was taken away by the accused
persons nor they committed any bad act with her. Rather it is
established that on the day of incident due to some quarrel, the
victim came out from her parental house and proceeded towards
Guwahati to go to her husband's work place Kerala on her own
accord. She clearly admitted in her cross examination that she
levelled the allegations of rape against the accsed persons as she
was threatened to do so by the police of Goroimari.outpost and also
she made her statement before the Magistrate as tutored by the
police. From the facts and circumstances of the case and evidence
of the Pws discussed above’ clearly reveals that the accused
persons had not committed any offence as alleged against them.
Rather it can be said that they became scapegoat as a result of
expediency based on false implication and they can not be held
guilty for alleged offence of penetrative sexual assault or any other

provision of law.

17. From all the above facts and circumstances of the case
discussed above, | held and decide that the prosecution failed to
prove it’s case beyond all reasonable doubt.

18. Accordingly, accused Md. Ainul Haque, Abdul Rezak and
Gulzar Hussain are acquitted from the charge of offence u/s
5(g),5(p) and 5(l) of POCSO Act punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act. and
set them at liberty forthwith. their bail bonds shall remain in force

till next six months.
Page 7 of 8

19. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the
6" day of January, 2020.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(1.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Page 8 of 8

APPENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses

PW1 :- Dr. Tutumoni Handique.
PW2 :- Father of the victim/informant.

PW3 :- The victim.

EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 1 : Medical report.
Exhibit 2 i 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Exhibit 3 : gf. | Re

(1.Barman)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
