Page 1 of 24

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused
u/s 313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

07 OF 2014
(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 2217 of
2014)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

=-Vs-
Sri Madhab Chandra Nath,
Son of Late Rameshwar Nath
Resident ofsBesseria (Pukhuria)
Police Station — Tezpur
Dist:-.Sonitpur, Assam

24/02/2015

11/09/2015, 05/03/2016,
25/04/2016, 30/06/2016
21/03/2017, 23/03/2017
09/11/2017 & 09/01/2018.

05/02/2018.

09/03/2018

22/03/2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Smti Dulumoni Sinha, Advocate.
Page 2 of 24

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Madhab Chandra Nath is put for trial
for allegation of charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or
about 8 a.m. of 06-09-2014 accused took informant’s minor daughter
Miss X with a lure to give something to the water supply plant, in
absence of informant’s family members and physically assaulted her
and also committed rape on her. The accused has~also’ asked the
informant’s minor daughter not to disclose the, matter to anybody.
Thereafter, the informant’s minor daughter developed a pain in
stomach and as a result, she does not wants to go to school. While the
informant asking her daughter repeatedly.why it was so she disclosed
the details about the incident. Thereafter, the informant informed the
matter to the local public and.on 08-09-2014 she filed the ejahar
before the I/C of Kacharigaon police Out Post under Tezpur Police

station.

3. On receipteof'the ejahar, the I/C of Kacharigaon Police Out Post
after giving the GD Entry No. 138/14 dated 08-09-2014 forwarded the
same to.O/C Tezpur PS for registering a case. On receipt the ejahar,
the-Officer-In-Charge of Tezpur Police Station registered a case being
Tezpur P.S. Case No. 1062/14 u/s 376(I) of the IPC read with section
8 of the POCSO Act. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C
Tezpur Police Station sent up the case record for trial against the
accused Madhab Chandra Nath by filing charge sheet u/s 376(2)(i) of
the IPC read with section 8 of the POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, my learned predecessor, framed charge under section 6
of the POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused Sri Madhab Chandra Nath
and particulars of the charge was read over, explained to the accused

to which he pleads not guilty and claims to be tried.

 
Page 3 of 24

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as
nine numbers of witnesses. After completion of prosecution evidence,
accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against
the accused and evidence appears against the accused are put before
him for his explanation where he denied the allegations, evidence and

declined to adduce defence evidence.

6. I have also heard argument put forwarded by learned counsels
of both the parties.

qi The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether, on last 06-09-2014 at about.8 a.m/ in the morning at
his Govt. quarter at Ketekibari under Tezpur Police Station, the
accused committed penetrative . sexual assault on the victim Miss
"X", aged about 7 years and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions. and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the

evidence on record.

9. PW 1,Dr. Ila Rajkhowa, stated that on 08-09-2014 she was
posted asSr. Medical & Health Officer in the Kanaklata Civil Hospital,
Tezpur and on that day, at about 1.30 p.m. in the emergency outdoor,
labour room complex of KCH,Tezpur, she examined Barasha Saikia, 7
years, D/O Sri Girindra Saikia of village Ketekibari, PS- Tezpur, in
reference to Kacharigaon OP vide GD E No. nill dated 08-09-2014, on
being escorted and identified by UBC 511 Prasanta Gogoi, in presence
of GNM Manika Dutta. Consent taken from the victim girl and her
guardian. On examination she found the following:

Identification mark — one black mole on left hand.

Height — 114 cm., Weight — 17 Kg, Teeth — 10/11. The girl has
not attained puberty.

 
Page 4 of 24

She is a small built child. She is a school going child. Neat and
tidy and well dressed. Her gait is normal. As she does not attain

puberty, her secondary sexual character does not developed.

Auxiliary and pubic hair does not develop. Vagina and vulva
healthy but not developed. There are no marks of injury in any parts of

her body or in her private parts.
Investigation advised:

Vaginal smear examination given and sent to laboratory of

Kanaklata Civil Hospital — spermatozoa not seen. Lab-No.\97;

Urine for HCG test — negative. Done in, Asstha International
Diagnostic Centre, Patient ID NO. 049261/70/14 done by Dr. A. Sharma.
MD Pathologist.

X-ray for age determination»— Age of the person under
investigation appears to be below:8_years.

Epiphysis of bones around elbow yet to be fused.
Iliac crest epiphysis yet to appear around puberty.
Pisiform bone yet to appear.

Epiphysis of lower ends of ulna are yet to appear. Appear by 8"
years:.Done at Scanx Diagnostic Centre, done by Dr. R. Baruah, MD
consultant Radiologist.

USG of lower abdomen:
USG features within normal limit.

UB is well distended. No intra luminal abnormality found. UB wall

is normal. Uterus : Uterus is normal in size, shape and position.

Measures — 1.8 x 3.8 x 1.0 cm. No myoma seen. Endometrial
echo is maintained. Cervix is normal. Both the ovaries are normal in

size, shape and echo textures. No solid and cystic mass lesion is seen.

Right Ovary: measures 2 x 2 x 0.9 cm.

 
Page 5 of 24

Left Ovary: measures 1.9 x 0.8 cm

ADNEXA- No adnexal mass seen, done at Scanx Diagnostic

Centre, done by Dr. R. Baruah, MD consultant Radiologist.
Remarks:

1. No sign of recent sexual intercourse during the time of

examination.
2. Estimated age of the victim girl is below 8 years:

3. There is no injury marks on the body or in her private

parts.

Ext. 1 is the Medical Report and Ext. 1(1)is his signature. Ext. 2
is the laboratory report of Kanaklata Civil\Hospital, Tezpur. Ext. 3 is the
report of Urine test. Ext. 4 is advice slip for investigation and Ext. 4(1) is
my signature. Ext. 5 is the X-ray.report along with three plates. Ext.6 is
the USG report along with-plate.

10. PW 2 Smti Bijaya Bordoloi stated that she knows the accused
Madhab Nath. She. also’ knows the victim Barsha. The incident occurred
on 7™ March, 2014. On that day, she went outside to mend her cows in
the nearby field. At that time Debajani and Rashmi called her and told

her-that.the accused has done harm to victim.

11;. PW 3 Smt. Debajani Saikia stated before the court that victim is
her daughter. She know the accused Madhab Nath. When they were in
a rented house at Ketekibari, they came in contact with him because he
was the Operator of Water Supply Department. About 1 year 7 months
ago, the occurrence took place. On the day of occurrence, her daughter
was 7 years old and she was a student of class -1 of Majdeuri gaon
Primary School. One day, she was giving a bath to her daughter before
sending her to school and at that time victim told her that she could not
go to school because she was suffering from pain on stomach. She also

stated before her that “Tanki Mama” was a bad man. Her daughter

 
Page 6 of 24

called the accused as “Tanki Mama”. She told her that on the pretext of
giving of guava and other fruits, he used to call her daughter to the
room at the Water Supply system. Her daughter also disclosed before
her that on multiple occasions by giving fruits to her, the accused used
to remove her pant and inserted his penis into her vagina. Her victim
daughter also told her that the accused had threatened her that if she
had disclosed the matter to others, he will kill her. Thereafter, she went
to the Police Station. Before that she had informed her husband*about
the said facts. Ext. 7 is the ejahar and Ext. 7(1) is his signature. She
narrated the entire facts before a person whose name,is not known to
her. He in turn dictated his wife to write the ejahar. Her daughter was
brought to the Court for recording her statement. She was also

subjected to the medical examination.

Though PW 3 has been exposed to long cross-examination
except giving many suggestions; the evidence as to - one day while she
after giving bath to her daughter=before sending her to school and at
that time victim told her that she could not go to school because she
was suffering from pain_on»stomach, she also stated that “Tanki Mama”
was a bad manyshevalso told that on the pretext of giving of guava and
other fruits, he ‘used to call her daughter to the room at the Water
Supply system; on multiple occasions by giving fruits to her, the
accused.used to remove her pant and inserted his penis into her vagina,
and her victim daughter also told her that the accused had threatened
her that if she had disclosed the matter to others, he will kill her has

remained unchallenged.

12. PW 4 Miss X, the victim, who was examined after making
enquiry by putting some questions and answers as to her ability to give
rational answers stated that the occurrence took place at about 11 a.m.
On that day, she felt stomach pain so she could not go to the school.
At about 11 a.m. Tanki Mama called her to his house. He works in the
Water supply system. She went to his house alone. He showed her

bananas and chips. When she reached his house he gave her a potato

 
Page 7 of 24

chip. Thereafter he removed her panty. The accused wearing a
“Gamosa”. He touched her vagina with his penis. Thereafter he inserted
his penis into her vagina. She was laid on his bed at that time. She
shouted for help then he gagged her mouth with his hands. She told
him that she was suffering from pain then he removed his penis. When
she felt too much pain and when she shouted louder, the accused had
wiped her vagina with the gamosa. At that time her younger brother
came to the place of occurrence. To see her younger brother. the
accused left her. Before the day of occurrence, the accused*did»those
things to her on five days. She did not tell those things to her mother
because the accused threatened that if she disclosed the said facts to
her parents he will beat her. He also told her that.,on-hearing such facts
her mother will also beat her. After the aforesaid’ incident her stomach
pain began to grow bigger and then she told her mother about the
whole facts. Sometimes another person comes to the room where the
accused staying. On the day of. occurrence the said person was not
present in that room. She was subjected to medical examination. She
was produced before. a\Magistrate in the Court for recording her
statement. She told the Magistrate as she has stated before the court.
Ext. 8 is my statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and Ext. 8(1) to 8(4)

are her signatures.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving»many suggestions the evidence as to on the day of incident she
was called by accused Tanki Mama to his working place by showing her
bananas and chips, thereafter accused removed her panty, the accused
wearing a “Gamosa”, he touched her vagina with his penis, thereafter
he inserted his penis into her vagina by laid down on his bed, when she
shouted for help then the accused gagged her mouth with his hands
and she told him that she was suffering from pain then accused

removed his penis has remained unchallenged.

13. PW 5 Sri Girindra Saikia stated that he knows the accused
Madhab Nath. Victim is her daughter. About one year 8 months ago

 
Page 8 of 24

the incident took place. At that time, her daughter’s age was 61/2
years. He has two children. On the day of occurrence he went out for
work in the morning and returned on the mid day to have bath. He
asked his wife as to why the children were not sent to school on that
day. She was crying and told him that the accused Madhab Nath had
taken their daughter to the Water supply Pump complex near his
house on the pretext of giving some fruits to her and there, the
accused had touched her vagina with his penis after removing: her
pants. He asked her daughter about the said fact. His daughter”also
told him the facts as her mother had disclosed him.-Immediately he
went to the said water supply pump complex in search of the accused
but he could not find him there. He returned“home and thereafter
went to Mission Chariali police Out Post and lodged ejahar before

police.

Though he has been exposed to’ long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions the evidence as to on the day of occurrence
returned on the mid day to have bath from his working place, while he
asked his wife as to why the children were not sent to school on that
day, his wife wasecrying and told him that the accused Madhab Nath
had taken their daughter to the Water supply Pump complex near his
house on the»pretext of giving some fruits to her and there the
accused. had touched her vagina with his penis after removing her
pants»then he also asked her daughter about the said fact and his
daughter also told him the facts as her wife had disclosed him has

remained unchallenged.

14. PW 6 Smti Banti Bharali who turned hostile. The unhostile
portion of her statement is that — she knows the victim girl. The
incident took place about two years ago. One day at morning many
people gathered near the water tank situated nearer to her house. She
cannot say exactly what was happened but heard that accused

committed misdeed to a little girl. She had not made any statement to

 
Page 9 of 24

police neither she was reported about the incident by the mother of
the victim

In cross-examination by defence she admitted that accused is
known to her but she has not heard any adverse against the accused.
As she was not reported anything by Debajani so she did not made

any statement before the police.

15. PW 7 Miss J. Borah, stated that on 09-09-2014 she was working
as Judicial Magistrate, 1* class, Tezpur, in reference to Tezpur PS Case
No. 1062/14 as per the order of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur, she has recorded the statement of one minor witness
Miss X. Since the witness was minor, so she-has put some questions
and on her answers she is satisfied that sheNis able to understand the
questions put to her and to give rational “answers, accordingly, she
recorded her statement. The witness made statement before her
voluntarily. After recording -her statement she has read over the
contents of the writings and on her acceptance she put her signature
thereon. The said witness was identified by UBC 511 Prasanta Gogoi
and WHG Mamoni Saikia, Ext.9 is the GR Case No. 2217/ 14, Ext.9(1) is
the order of*the then learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur,
Tezpur, Ext. 9(2) is the signature of the then learned Chief Judicial
Magistrate, Sonitpur, Ext. 9(3) is her order after receiving the case
record of GR Case and Ext. 9(4) is her signature. Ext. 8(5) is her

signature in the statement of Miss X.

16. PW 8 Sri Keshab Baruah, the I.0. has stated before the court
that on 08-09-2014 he was posted at Kacharigaon Police out Post
under Tezpur PS as SI of police. On that day he received a written
ejahar from Debajani Saikia. On receipt of the ejahar he has given GD
Entry No. 138/14 dated 08-09-2014 and the same was forwarded to
O/C Tezpur PS for registering a case. Accordingly, O/C Tezpur PS
registered a case being Tezpur PS Case No. 1062/14 u/s 376(I) of IPC
r/w section 8 of POCSO Act and also registered a GD entry No. 446
dated 09-09-2014 and entrusted him for investigation. Ext. 7 is the

 
Page 10 of 24

said ejahar and Ext. 7(2) is his signature with note and Ext. 7(3) is the
Signature of the then O/C Tezpur PS some “Deka”. Accordingly, he
visited the place of occurrence and prepared a sketch map of the
place of occurrence vide Ext. 10 and Ext. 10(1) is his signature.
Thereafter, he recorded the statement of the witnesses u/s 161
Cr.P.C., sent the victim for medical examination and collected the
report and sent the victim to the learned Magistrate for recording her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On his transfer, he has handed over the

case diary to the then O/C Tezpur Police station.

He has recorded the statement of witness Banti, Bharali. The
said witness stated before him that “on 08-09-2014 after completion of
her domestic work she went to market shexsaw Smti Debajani by
standing was talking with somebody. While she goes forward and
asked her what happened, she told her that the incident is not such to
state loudly so she called her at a little distance. After purchasing
some materials while she.went@with her towards her house, she
reported her that accused. Nath has sexually tortured her minor
daughter by calling to his water supply plant. Then she advised her to
inform the matter.to.police. Ext. 11 is the GR Case No. 2217/14, Ext.
11(1) is the relevant statement of said witness Smti Banti Bhorali
recorded. u/s 161 Cr.P.C. and Ext. 11 (2) is his signature.

In cross-examination, she admitted that according to FIR date
of occurrence was on 06-09-2014, but the ejahar was lodged on 08-
09-2014 i.e. after two days of the incident. The FIR does not explain
two days delay in lodging the same. He has met and recorded the
statement of the victim on 08-09-2014. Due to mistake of pen, he has
shown the date in the statement of victim on 08-08-2014 though the
incident took place on 06-09-2014 and the ejahar was lodged on 08-
09-2014. Actually, it should be on 08-09-2014.

17. PW 9 SI Gopal Singha, stated that on 08-09-2014 he was
posted as I/C of Kacharigaon Out Post. On that day, O/C, Tezpur PS

endorsed him to investigate the case of Tezpur PS Case No. 1062 of

 
Page 11 of 24

2014. Accordingly, he received the case diary of Tezpur PS Case No.
1062 of 2014. On being taken the charge of investigation, on perusal
of the case diary it appears that the investigation of the case has
already been completed. He only collected the medical report of the
victim. On perusal of the case diary it appears that victim girl Miss X,
aged about 7 years, D/O Girinda Saikia, has been committed rape by
the accused Madhab Chandra Nath. Finding sufficient materials against
the accused Madhab Chandra Nath he has filed chargesheet™vide
charge sheet No. 649/14 dated 24-10-2014 u/s 376(2)(1) of<the IPC
read with section 8 of POCSO Act. Ext. 12 is the chargesheet and Ext.
12(1) is his signature.

18. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence

plea is total denial while his statement was‘recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

19. Ihave heard the arguments put forwarded by learned counsels
of both the sides.

20. —__Learned counsel.for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove(‘the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly,
had an adult person.committed rape on a minor girl she must have
sustained injury not only on her private parts but also on her body but
according to the doctor the victim sustain no such injury. Secondly,
according to the FIR, the alleged incident took place on 06-09-2014
but the FIR was filed by the complainant on 08-09-2014. The FIR was
silent as to any explanation for lodging the same in late. Thirdly,
other than PW 3, mother of the victim and PW 5, father of the victim
and victim none has supported the prosecution case. Fourthly, Smti
Banti Bhorali has turned hostile. Her hostile portion of statement
cannot be used by prosecution to convict the accused. Fifthly,
according to PW 2 Smti Bijaya Bordoloi on the day of incident PW 2's
son Gitartha Bordoloi staying in the same rook room together with the
accused. Besides, on that day accused helped her to milk her cows
after closing his room under lock and key and lastly, though the I.0.
has recorded the statement of victim on 08-09-2014 but in fact in the

 
Page 12 of 24

statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. the I.0. stated that he has recorded the
statement of victim on 08-08-2014 i.e. about one month prior to the
date of incident. Under such circumstances, accused is required to be

acquitted.

21. On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor submitted
that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond any doubt
against the accused, firstly, by way of giving evidence by the. minor
daughter of the informant. This statement was recorded by Hon’ble
court after due enquiry by putting many questions~as to her
intelligence and ability to give rational answers. The-victim also stated
before her mother after two days at the time of going.to school when
she had suffered unbearable pain at stomach that was reported to her
father on his arrival. There is no any evidence that accused has any
enmity with the informant prior to the incident, even if there may be
some strange relation between/the accused and the informant, it is
impossible to think to file a.false case against any person by involving
their own minor daughter alleging her commission of such a heinous
act, therefore, the prosecution has ably proved the case against the
accused beyond-all reasonable doubt, hence, the accused is required

to be convicted under the charged section.

22. « Keeping in mind the argument advanced by learned counsels of

both.sides, I am going to dispose of the case.

23. After going through the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses, it is
seen except the victim, there is no eye witness to the incident, but after
the incident, the victim informed to her mother (PW 3) and father (PW

5) which are corroborated.

According to PW 3, the mother of the victim stated that at the
relevant time her victim daughter was only 7 years old and she was
student of class I standard. One day, she was giving a bath to her
daughter before sending her to school and at that time victim told her

that she could not go to school because she was suffering from pain on

 
Page 13 of 24

stomach. She also stated before her that “Tanki Mama” was a bad man.
Her daughter called the accused as “Tanki Mama”. She told her that on
the pretext of giving fruits and some things to victim, accused called her
daughter to the room at the Water Supply system. Her daughter also
disclosed before her that on multiple occasions with a lure to give fruits,
the accused called victim where accused used to remove her pant and
inserted his penis into her vagina. Her victim/daughter also stated her
that the accused had threatened her that if she had disclosed, the
matter to others, he will kill her. Though she has been exposed*to long
cross-examination except giving many suggestions, the.evidence as to -
one day while she after giving bath to her daughter before sending her
to school and the victim told her that she-could, not go to school
because she was suffering from pain on stomach, she also stated that
“Tanki Mama” was a bad man, on the pretext of giving of guava and
other fruits, he used to call her to,the,sroom at the Water Supply system,
on multiple occasions by giving fruits to her, the accused used to
remove her pant and inserted his penis into her vagina has remained

unchallenged.

Father of=the. victim (PW 5) Sri Girindra Saikia also stated that
one day when he returned on the mid day to have bath from his
working‘placewhe asked his wife as to why the children were not sent
to school on that day, his wife was crying and told him that the accused
Madhab Nath had taken their daughter to the Water supply Pump
complex near their house on the pretext of giving some fruits to her and
there the accused had touched her vagina with his penis after removing
her pants, while he asked her daughter (victim), his victim daughter
disclosed about the fact. Though he has been exposed to long cross-
examination except giving many suggestions, the evidence as to one
day while he returned to home for bath, he asked his wife as to why his
children were not sent to school, his wife was crying and told him that
accused had taken their daughter to the Water supply Pump complex
near his house on the pretext of giving some fruits to her and there the

accused had touched her vagina with his penis after removing her

 
Page 14 of 24

pants, while he asked her daughter (victim) about the fact, his daughter

told him about the said fact has remained unchallenged.

24. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the FIR filed by
the informant did not disclose any reasons for filing the same in 2 days
late.

In state Vs. Gurmit Sing, the Hon’ble Apex Court , stated that

“The court cannot over looked the fact that in sexual offence,
delay in lodging the FIR can be due to variety of reasons particularly the
reluctant of the prosecutrix or her family members-to go to the police
and complained about the incident which concermthe.reputation of the
prosecutrix and the honour of her family. Itisonly after giving it a cool

thought that a complaint of sexual assault is generally lodged.”

In the instant case, the complainant, the mother of the victim
filed the ejahar on 08-09-2014 .0n being came to know about the
incident from her victim daughter, though the incident took place on
06-09-2014. Here in, the, present case, the informant lodged the
ejahar on the very.day when she came to know about the incident.
Therefore, there is nothing delay in lodging the FIR. Under such
circumstances, though the FIR was filed on 08-09-2014 where the
incident took place on 06-09-2014 cannot be stated to be filed in late.

25. Learned counsel for the accused argued that the victim is a
minor girl and changed her version in different times, before the
police, before the Magistrate and even in the Court as such, her

statement cannot be considered to convict the accused.

26. Here in the present case, as details discussed herein before, the
victim stated that the accused called her to his house i.e. the Water
Supply system. She went to the house of the accused alone. He showed
her bananas and chips. When she reached the house of the accused, he
gave her a potato chip. Thereafter the accused removed her panty. The

accused wearing a “Gamosa”. He touched her vagina with his penis.

 
Page 15 of 24

Thereafter he inserted his penis into her vagina. She was laid on his bed
at that time. While, she shouted for help, accused gagged her mouth
with his hands, she told the accused that she was suffering from pain
then he removed his penis. When she felt too much pain and when she
shouted louder, the accused had wiped her vagina with the gamosa. At
that time, her younger brother came to the place of occurrence. To see
her younger brother, the accused left her, after two days while her
mother get her ready for school after bathing her she (victim) disclosed
about the incident. On arrival of her father (PW 5) her mother narrated
the whole incident and her father while asked the matter to the victim/
daughter, the victim/daughter reported to him in details. In her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she stated that just.prior to the incident
accused called her through the window. Accordingly, she went there
and her younger brother was watching TV and slept. Accused used to
give her fruits. Thereafter, accused opened her panty and inserted his
sexual organ into her private parts. She feels pain and she shouted. By
this way accused doing.such vact in several times. Accused also
threatened her to kill if she disclosed the matter to others. While she
was suffering from, stomach pain on being asked by her mother she

narrated about the whole story.

27. | Thedearned Magistrate who recorded the statement of the victim
u/s 464.Cr.P.C. confirmed in the court that in considering the age of the
victim»she recorded the statement of the victim after proper enquiry by
putting many questions to test her intelligence and ability to give
rational answers thereafter the learned Magistrate recorded the
statement of the victim where the victim made statement voluntarily.
No doubt, the statement of Prosecution witnesses, some minor

contradiction appears.

In Boya Ganganna Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh
reported in AIR 1976 SC 1541 wherein it is held —
“Minor contradictions are bound to appear when ignorant and

illiterate women are giving evidence. Even in case of trained and

 
Page 16 of 24

educated persons, memory sometimes plays false and this would be
much more so in case of ignorant and rustic women. It must also be
remembered that the evidence given a witness would very much
depend upon his power of observation and it is possible that some
aspects of an incident may be observed by one witness while they
may not be witnessed by another though both are present at the

scene of offence.”

As stated above as raised by learned counsel for the accused,
these are some slight minor contradictions. Even if admitted.the said

contradictions, the prosecution case would not change:

28. Learned counsel for the accused again,submitted that there is
no any birth certificate or age certificate or any\certificate issued by
the School authority where the victim first or last attended or any
certificate issued by local authority. According to the PW 1, the doctor
who examined the victim stated the age of the victim is below 8
years. According to the mother of the victim (PW 3), victim was 7
years old. On the other hand, victim was examined on 21-03-2017
and on that day she was 9 years old. The incident took place on 06-
09-2014, therefore, according to victim her age at the relevant time
was about 6 years. However, that has not been challenged by the
defence at.any point of time. Therefore, it can be safely held that the

victim was a minor.

29. In the case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs -— State,
represented by the Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD)
No.98 of 2015, it was held that it is true that primary evidence to
prove the date of birth of the individual may be preferably the birth
certificate. But, it cannot be said that in absence of birth certificate,
the date of birth cannot be proved. When the age of the individual is
not disputed, the question of proving the same does not arise at all.
It is the settled law that a fact in issue or any relevant fact or any

fact relevant to the issue, which is disputed by the adverse party

 
Page 17 of 24

alone, needs proof. If it is not disputed, there is no need to lead any
evidence in proof of the said admitted fact.

In this case, the victim and her parents categorically stated
the age of the victim as 7 years from the very beginning of the case,
at the time of commission of offence, besides during cross-
examination, the same has not been disputed at all by the accused
side. Thus, the evidence of PWs in respect of age of the victim
remains unchallenged.

30. A careful perusal of the whole case record, it appears thatthe
statement of the victim made before the court is corroborated by her
earlier statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. and 164 Cr.P.C. Though she has
been exposed to long cross-examination the-evidence as to at the
relevant time accused with a lure of giving\her banana and chips
called her to his water supply system. Unit where the accused
removed her pant, laid her down on the bed, inserted his sexual
organ into her private parts<has remained unchallenged. Besides,
according to the prosecution story, after about two days when the
victim’s mother get her ready for school, she expressed her pain in
stomach and that-is why she did not like to go to school, when the
victim was asked by her mother, the victim vividly disposed that
accused called her to his house in many times with a lure of giving
chips <andsfruits and there he opened her panty and inserted his
sexual organ into her private parts in many occasions and while PW
5, father of the victim came to have his launch, on being seen his
daughter in house asked his wife why their daughter did not go to
school, then she narrated the whole incident to him, while he
enquired the matter to his daughter, his daughter narrated the
incident to him. Besides, the learned Magistrate who recorded the
statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. stated that the victim made
statement voluntarily.

31. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the
material particulars with regard to the incident that during the time of

incident, she was called by accused with a lure of giving chips and

 
Page 18 of 24

fruits, accused took her to his house i.e. on the Water supply system
unit where after removing her pant accused inserted his sexual organ
into her private parts in several times as a result of which she suffers
from pain in stomach. When her mother came to know about the
incident from the victim she narrated the whole story to her husband,
her husband also confirmed after enquiry to his victim daughter.
Though the victim and other witnesses including the parents were
exposed to long cross-examination but their evidence remained
unchallenged. The evidence of the victim is cogent and reliable.
There cannot be any doubt to disbelieve the evidence of the victim.
32. | Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of
accused is not leading any defence evidence, would not have
mattered much as prosecution is supposed to. prove its case beyond
shadows of all reasonable doubts. However, ‘in a case under POCSO
Act, the situation is not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to
refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

33. U/s. 29 of POCSO-Act, a»mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn ‘against the accused in a prosecution for
certain offences and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence u/s.3; 5, 7 and Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall
presume that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to
commit the offence, as the case may be, unless the contrary is
proved.

34. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special
Court shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental
state of the accused where culpable mental state is required on the
part of the accused. Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any
prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall

presume that existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence

 
Page 19 of 24

for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state
with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be
proved only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond
reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established by
a preponderance of probabilities.

35. The use of expression “shall presume” has been defined, in
Section 4 of the Indian Evidence Act. As contrasted from “the
expression “if presume”, the expression “shall presume” whenever
used connotes “legal presumption” or “compulsory presumption” as
contrasted from “factual presumption” or “discretionary presumption”
emanating from the expression “may presume’. “kegal presumptions”
or “compulsory presumption” as are signified by the use of expression
“shall presume” are inferences or proposition established by law,
which the law peremptorily requires to be made whenever the facts
appear which it assumes as the) basis of that inference. The
presumptions of law are in reality rules of law, and part of the law
itself and the court may draw inference whenever the requisite facts
are developed in pleadings.

36. Similarly. whenever any law prescribes that the Court shall
presume the existence of culpable mandatory state or to draw a
presumption »regarding commission of any offence, unless the
contrary is proved, the onus to prove the contrary undoubtedly shifts
upon the accused. Certainly, it does not discharge the prosecution of
its duty to first establish and prove the facts, the existence of which
can only lead to drawing of any such compulsory presumption or
legal presumption by the use of the expression “shall presume”.
Thus, as per Section 29, if a person is prosecuted for committing or
abating or attempting to commit any offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and 9 of
POCSO Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person has
committed or abated or attempted to commit the said offence as the
case may be unless the contrary is proved. However, in the present

case, the accused has completely failed in discharging his burden

 
Page 20 of 24

even by preponderance of probabilities much less beyond reasonable
doubt.

37. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be
recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness or not? This issue
was dealt by the Hon’ble Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of
U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On'the
contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who=may
testify — all persons shall be competent to testify unless\the Court
considers that they are prevented from understanding the questions
put to them, or from giving rational answers to ‘those questions, by
tender years, extreme old age, disease, whether,of body or mind, or
any other cause of the same kind.”

38. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has
intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational
answers thereto. The evidence ofva child witness is not required to be
rejected per se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such
evidence with close scrutiny and only on being convinced about the
quality thereof and reliability can record conviction, based thereon.

39. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra,
(1997) 5. SCC 341, it was held that a child witness if found
competent to depose to the facts and reliable one such evidence
could be the basis of conviction. In other words, even in the absence
of oath the evidence of a child witness can be considered u/s.118 of
the Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to understand the
questions and able to give rational answer thereof. The evidence of a
child witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the
circumstances of each case. The only precaution which the Court
should bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness is
that the witness must be a reliable one and his/her demeanour must
be like any other competent witness and there is no likelihood of

being tutored.

 
Page 21 of 24

40. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs —
State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision
on the question whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence
primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his manners, his
apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and the said Judge may
resort to any examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and
intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an oath.
41. Coming to the present case, it appears that according™to
prosecution story, after two days of the incident when the: victim
suffered pain in her stomach in the course of time she.disclosed the
whole story to her mother and on arrival of the father of the victim,
while victim’s father enquired why the victim/daughter did not go to
school, then the victim’s mother narrated the. whole incident to him
and then she filed the ejahar. While the. accused’s statement was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. he stated\nothing but denied about the
incident. There is no any evidence that complainant had any quarrel
or enmity to falsely implicate the accused in such a heinous crime.
Even if some enmity .with.the accused it is absurd to think that the
complainant filed this false case against the accused b y involving her
own minor daughter in such a heinous crime.

42. Onappreciation of evidence given by the victim, her parents
and other witnesses, I find that the victim was sexually assaulted by
the \accused person. It appears that medical evidence no way
supported the materials of penetrative sexual assault, as the doctor
stated that no injury found in the private parts of the victim and also
in the body. Here in the present case, the victim is below 8 years at
the time of occurrence according to the doctor. The prosecution has
failed to collect the Birth Certificate or Age certificate of victim from
the school authority or any local authority. Therefore, when the
prosecution has failed to prove the exact age of the victim at the time
of occurrence, I think the offence committed by accused is “sexual
assault”. Therefore, accused is acquitted from the charge u/s 6 of the

POCSO Act. Hence, I have come to the conclusion that accused Sri

 
Page 22 of 24

Madhab Chandra Nath has committed an offence punishable u/s 8 of
the POCSO Act. Accordingly, accused Sri Madhab Chandra Nath is
convicted u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.
43. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he
praying for leniency stating that he is doing service at Public Health
Department and he is the only bread earner of his family. Besides he
has been in custody for many days. Hence praying for leniency.
44. I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well=as
learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur.
45. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the
Court should strike a balance between aggravating, circumstances and
mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to
the crime and mitigating circumstances relate’to the criminal. In this
case, so far as the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor
girl was sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only
to the body but also to the. mind of not only to the victim but that of
entire family members, but considering the mitigating circumstances,
the accused was hardly 55 years of age at the time of the incident. It
is not brought‘to the notice of this Court that before this incident, the
accused had) committed any other offence. There is likelihood of his
reformation, but the statute u/s.8 of POCSO Act prescribes minimum
punishment for a term of three years with fine. When the intention of
the. legislator is to impose stringent punishment for not less than
three years, this court has no option but to impose minimum
punishment of three years.

ORDER
46. __I convict the accused Sri Madhab Chandra Nath u/s. 8 of
POCSO Act and sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 3 (three)
years and also to pay a fine of Rs.500/- (Rupees Five Hundred only),
in default, Rigorous Imprisonment for one month. The period, which
he detained in custody, during the period of investigation, trial etc.
shall be set off u/s 428 of Cr.P.C.

 
Page 23 of 24

47. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the
statement of witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the
compensation. To mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered
by the victim, an amount of Rs.30,000/- (Rupees Thirty thousand)
only is awarded as compensation. The Secretary, District Legal Aid
Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to give the
compensation to the father of the victim after proper enquiry.

Let a copy of the Judgment be sent to the Secretary, ‘District
Legal Aid Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur for -her \necessary
action.
48. A copy of this judgment be furnished to ‘the,accused free of
cost immediately.
49. Let another copy of Judgment be sent to learned District
Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur, u/s 365 ‘of Cr.P.C.

Given under my Hand.and Séal of this Court on this the 22™
day of March, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
em SN ee Be Me

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8
Prosecution Witness No.9

Page 24 of 24

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2,

Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4
Exhibit 5
Exhibit-6
Exhibit’9
Exhibit 8
Exhibit 9
Exhibit 10
Exhibit 11
Exhibit 12

Dr. Ila Rajkhowa, M.O.

Smti Bijaya Bordoloi

Smti Debajani Saikia, complainant
victim

Sri Girindra Saikia

Smt. Banti Bhorali

Miss J. Borah, Judicial Magistrate
Sri Keshab Baruah, I.O.

SI Gopal Singha.

EXHIBITS.

Medical report
Laboratory report,

reportiof urine test

Advice slip

X-ray report.

USG report

Ejahar

164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim
GR Case NO. 2217/14

Sketch map

GR Case NO. 2217/14

Chargesheet

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
