Page 1 of 10

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 26 of 2016
Under section 8 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 519/16)

State of Assam

—Vs—
Sri Gakul Gowala ves Accused Person

Present : Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State : Mr _M.@ Baruah,

Special Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Sri A.K. Saikia, Legal Aid counsel
Date of Argument : 28-03-2019.
Date of Judgment : 10-04-2019.
JUDGMENT
nN The genesis of the present case is that on 01-08-2016 at around 6

psm. accused Gokul Gowala committed rape of the informant’s daughter in
No. 4 Tulip Tea Estate and he was caught red handed by chowkidar Md.

Hasen.

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.5) on 01-08-2016 from the informant
(PW1), the victim’s father, Dhekiajuli P.S. Case No. 519/16 u/s 376(2) (i) of
IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act was registered and launched
investigation of the case. During investigation, the Investigating Officer (PW

8) recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical

 
Page 2 of 10

examination, got her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on completion
of investigation having found materials, laid charge sheet against the accused
Gokul Gowala u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of the accused person before this Court, after
furnishing the copies of the documents as required u/s 207 of Cr.P.C. and
having heard both parties, my learned predecessor, framed charge u/s\8 of
POCSO Act against the accused Gokul Gowala and particulars of thescharge*en
being read over and explained to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty

and claimed for trial.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examimedyas™many as eight
witnesses. On closure of the prosecution evidencé, statement of the accused
was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the accused denied all the incriminating
evidence that emerged against him stating that“‘when he proceeded towards
Samaguri, victim expressed her willingness*to go to Samaguri to her aunt’s
house and accordingly, he along withthe victim went to Samaguri and on
returning from Samaguri at 4.30yp"m,, when they reached Tulip, keeping the
victim at the side, he wefit inside the bagan in nature’s call and then seeing
them, the chowkidar_caught him and had assaulted him and lodged this case
falsely implicating him.

5. I haVe heard the argument of the learned counsel of both sides and

also have gone through the materials on record.
6. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) " Whether the accused Gokul Gowala on 01-08-2016 at around 6 p.m. at
No. 4 Tulip Tea Estate under Dhekiajuli Police Station committed sexual
assault on the victim Miss "X”, a minor girl aged about 10 years, and
thereby committed an offence punishable under section 8 of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

qi Before entering into discussion of the oral evidence, let it be seen
whether the victim is a child as defined in section 2(d) of the POCSO Act. Here
in this case, as per evidence of the victim and her parents, the victim was 10
years old at the time of alleged offence. According to PW 3 the independent

witness, the victim was 13 years old. The radiological report reflects that the

 
Page 3 of 10

victim was below 16 years. Age of the victim girl is not disputed in this case
except the evidence of the Medical Officer that the age of the victim may vary
two years on either side. In the above, the evidence of the parents who are
the best person to know the age of their child coupled with medical evidence,
I unhesitatingly held that in any circumstances the victim was a child as
defined in section 2 (d) of POCSO Act.

8. Now, the question is whether the accused Gokul Gowala committed
any offence on the victim child. In this respect, let me travelthrough the

evidence adduced by the prosecution side.

9. PW 1 is the informant as well as the father ofeth@wictim. He deposed
that on the day of incident at about 7 p.m., hiS daughter, who was aged
about 10 years, went to nearby shop to bringyk@rosene oil and on the way to
shop, accused Gokul Gowala kidnapped her ahd taking her to Tulip Tea
Estate, committed her rape. Seeing the incident, the night chowkidar of Tulip
Tea Estate, apprehended the accusSed*and brought his daughter home. Then
the accused attempted to fleawvaway, but they tied him. Therafter VDP
secretary informed the nratter to police. Accordingly, police came and handed

over the accused to them. Regarding the incident, he lodged the FIR.

During,cross\he stated that VDP secretary Hari Sarkar informed the
matter to police and he lodged the FIR at about 7.30 p.m. He further stated
that the ‘accused kidnapped his daughter when she went to shop which is
about ‘half km away from his house. According to him, near the shop where
the victim went to bring kerosene oil, there are many residential houses and

atthat time it was dark. He heard about the incident from Hasen Ali.

10. PW 2 the mother of the victim testified that on the day of incident at
around 7 p.m. she sent her daughter to a nearby shop to bring kerosene oil
and on the way to shop, accused Gokul Gowala kidnapped her by gagging her
mouth and taking her to Tulip Tea Estate attempted to commit her rape.
Seeing the incident, the garden chowkidar apprehended the accused and
brought her daughter home along with the accused. Then the villagers

assaulted the accused and handed over him to police.

 
Page 4 of 10

During cross, she stated that on the way to the shop where she went
to bring kerosene oil, there are many houses on both sides of the road.
According to her one Dibya Rai was on duty as gate chowkidar of Tulip Tea
estate. She stated that seeing the accused with the victim, Hasen suspected
the accused. The victim told her that accused did not do any misdeed to her,

he only took her to the Tea garden.

11. PW 3 Mahesh Kheria deposed that on the day of incident,geeing the
victim, coming crying from the side of Tulip Tea Estate, whef®he enquired
her, she told that the accused attempted to commit her sapeéa Neighbouring
people gathered there and informed the matter to poligee:\Accordingly police

came and arrested the accused.

During cross, he admitted that thexvietim went with the accused
towards the garden but chowkidar Hasen Ali suspected the accused that the

accused took the victim with some ultérior Motive.

12. The star witness of thé caseW.e. the victim (PW 4) deposed that on
the day of incident at abouvt“5,. p.m, while she went to a nearby shop to bring
kerosene oil, on the waymaeeused took her to Tulip TE by gagging her mouth
and at the Tea gardemunder the tea bush, the accused by opening her panty
attempted to rape herShe also stated that as the accused put his vest on her
mouth, so Shecotiid not raise alarm. Seeing the incident, chowkidar of Tulip
Tea estate, apprehended them and brought them to her village where the
logal people assaulted the accused. Thereafter, her father filed this case

against the accused. She proved her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as Ext. 1.

But during cross, she stated that on the day of incident, in the
forenoon she went to the house of her maternal uncle at Samdhara with the
accused by his bicycle and after having launch at 3 p.m. when she was
returning with the accused by his bicycle, after crossing the main gate of Tulip
Tea Estate, accused went to attend nature’s call and she was standing by
holding the bicycle of the accused in the road. During that time Hasen Ali
who was on duty as chowkidar saw them and scolded them. He also assaulted

the accused. Thereafter, Hasen Ali brought her along with the accused to her

 
Page 5 of 10

home. The villagers tied the accused in her house and assaulted him. VDP
secretary informed the matter to police. She admitted that on her way to shop
of Jay Singh, there are many houses in both sides of the road. She further

stated the accused gagged her by his ganji (vest).

13. PW 5 Dr. Tutumoni Handique, the Medical Officer deposed that on
02-08-2016 she examined the victim who gave history of sexual assault\by a
known neighbour and not attained menarche. On examination found =hymen
absent and as per X-ray report she is below 16 years old but‘he any, injury
mark was found on her body or on private part. The doctor ‘proved the
medical report as Ext.2, vaginal smear report as Ext.3yand Xzray report as
Ext.4.

During cross-examination, the doctok statedthat the victim was
examined within 24 hours from the time of assault:
14, PW 6 Md. Idrish Ali, the chowkidar, of Tulip TE stated that on the day
of incident, at around 5.30/6 p.m.. when he was on duty seeing the accused
Gokul Gowala inside the TE, whem Ae enquired Gokul Gowala what he was
doing, he replied that he tookyhis niece to attend nature’s call. Thereafter, the
victim girl came by cryiNgsand reported that accused committed misdeed to
her. Then he slapped\the “accused twice and brought him along with the
victim girl to the hoUse of the victim. He had not reported anything to the
father of the victitmas the victim narrated the whole incident to her father.

He also.stated that his nick name is Hasen Ali.

During cross he stated that the girl narrated the incident before him
in ‘presence of chowkidar Abdul Kadir and when he asked the accused about
the incident, the accused replied that he did not commit any misdeed to the

victim.

15. PW 7 Jaher Ali stated that on the day of incident he heard that the
accused committed rape on the victim in the garden and the accused was

caught red handed by local public.

During cross he admitted that after about one or two days of the

incident he heard about the incident from one Shiva Kheria.

 
Page 6 of 10

16. PW 8 the Investigating Officer, deposed that on 01-08-2016 on
receipt of an FIR from the informant, O/C of Dhekiajuli PS registered the case
being Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 519/16 u/s 376(2) (i) of IPC read with section 4
of POCSO Act and entrusted him to investigate the case. During investigation,
he visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the informant
and victim and other witnesses, drew the sketch map of the place of
occurrence vide Ext.6 (henceforth mentioned as Ext. 6 as already Medical
report of the victim is marked as Ext.2), sent the victim form¢medical
examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.@., ‘arrested the
accused Gokul Gowala and on completion of investigation, submitted charge-
sheet against the accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act wideXExt? (henceforth

mentioned as Ext. 7 as already charge sheet is marked,as/Ext.3).

17. In this case, regarding alleged rape on, the*victim by accused Gokul
Gowala, PW 1, the father of the victim stated*that on the day of incident
when the victim went to nearby shop to purchase kerosene oil, the accused
Gokul Gowala kidnapped her and\taking her to Tulip Tea Estate, committed
her rape there which was Witnessed by night chowkidar of Tulip Tea Estate.
Though the victim’s fatherealleged that the accused committed rape on his
daughter but the victims ‘mother PW 2 testified that when her daughter went
to a nearby shop to Dring kerosene oil, accused kidnapped her and by gagging
her mouth tookchereto Tulip Tea Estate and attempted to commit her rape. On
the other‘hand) during cross examination, PW 2 being mother who is the most
naturahwitness made another version stating that seeing the accused with the
victim, Hasen suspected the accused. According to her, victim told her that
aecused did nothing to her, only he took her to the tea garden. So PW 1 and
PW 2 being the father and mother made different version regarding the
incident. Moreover, as per evidence of PW 1, Chowkidar Hasen Ali reported
him about the incident but Hasen Ali who was examined as Ext. 6 clearly
stated that he report nothing to PW 1. The evidence of PW 1 and PW 2, the
victim's parents that the accused kidnapped the victim is not supported by the

victim herself.

 
Page 7 of 10

18. The star witness of this case, i.e. the victim (PW 4) though during
examination-in-chief stated that on the day of incident in the evening at about
5 p.m. when she went to nearby shop of Jay Sing to bring kerosene oil, the
accused took her to Tulip Tea Estate by gagging her mouth with his vest
(ganji) and under the tea bush removing her clothes forcefully, attempted to
commit her rape, but contradicting her own statement, during cross she
stated that on the day in the forenoon she went to Samdhara to her_maternal
uncle’s house with the accused by his bicycle and on their return journey, at
around 4 p.m. after crossing the main gate, when accused, went, to, attend
nature’s call, she was standing on the road by holding the bicycle of the
accused but seeing them, Hasen Ali scolded them andeassaulted the accused.

So, the victim stated a complete different version Guring cross-examination.

19. The evidence of the victim also reveals.that when she went to bring
kerosene oil from the shop of Jay Singf aecused*gagging her mouth took her
to Tulip TE and in between the shop‘of Jay Sing and her house, many people
resided in both sides of the rOad. The alleged incident occurred on 1° of
August at around 6 p.m. Im the Month of August at 6 p.m. it is not so much
dark. Had she was takenebyagagging mouth, certainly, it would be noticed to
someone. But none had, seen them. Moreover, Jay Sing, the shop keeper was
also not examined by*the prosecution. Though defence during cross confirmed
that the aceused gagged her by his vest and defence put suggestion that she
had not gene to bring kerosene oil but taking the evidence of the victim in
cross-examination as discussed above, it casts a serious doubt about the

veracity of the prosecution version.

20. Further, the evidence of the independent witness PW 3 is that the
victim told him that accused attempted to commit her rape. This independent
witness did not state that the incident occurred when she went to bring
kerosene oil. Moreover, during cross, PW 3 stated that seeing the victim going
with the accused towards the garden, chowkidar of Tulip Tea Estate namely
Hasen Ali suspected that the accused took the victim with some ulterior
motive which is corroborated by the victim’s mother herself who deposed that

seeing the accused with the victim, Hasen Ali suspected the accused. Hasen

 
Page 8 of 10

Ali @ Iddrish Ali, the chowkidar of the Tulip Tea Estate who allegedly seen the
incident was examined as PW 6. According to him, seeing the accused Gokul
Gowala inside the Tea Estate, when he enquired, the accused replied that he
took his niece to attend nature’s call but thereafter the victim coming out by
crying, informed that accused committed misdeed to her. He also stated that
seeing the accused and the victim, he slapped the accused and brought them
to the house of the victim. The evidence of PW 6 indicates that he had\not
seen the accused committing rape or attempting to commit any sexual assault
on the victim as alleged by the parents of the victim. Furthenas per*evidence
of the victim’s father PW 6 Hasen Ali apprehended the accused aad’ the victim
but according to victim’s mother, Dibya Rai was on duity“as the chowkidar of
Tulip TE at that time whereas Hasen Ali during cross Stated that on the day he
was on duty along with one Abdul Kadir as chowkidar) So they made different
version. Dibya Rai or Abdul Kadir was also not examined by the prosecution.
Further the evidence of PW 6 that the victim, by crying told him that accused
committed misdeed to her was not ‘stated by him before the I.0. during
investigation which is confirmedwbysthe 1.0.(PW 8) himself. The evidence of
victim’s mother is that th@ acclused by gagging mouth took the victim to Tulip
TE and evidence of PW°S that the victim by crying came from the side of the
Tea garden and on%being aSked she told that the accused took her with intent
to commit rape) were not stated in their statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. made
immediately “after, the incident. Non mentioning those material particulars

before the N@¢ makes the prosecution case doubtful.

21. On a conjoint reading of the testimony of the prosecution witnesses,
itreveals that all the PWs including the victim made contradictory statements
and as such they cannot be believed in toto. Taking the evidence of
prosecution witnesses in totality particularly the evidence of the victim and her
mother and other surrounding circumstances as discussed above, it is clear
that the allegation against the accused Gokul Gowala have not been
established beyond all reasonable doubt and the accused is entitled to benefit
of doubt.

 
Page 9 of 10

22. Accordingly, accused Gokul Gowala is acquitted on benefit of doubt
from the charge u/s 8 of POCSO Act and set him at liberty forthwith.

23. Judgement is pronounced and delivered in open court under ce

and signature of this Court on the 10™ day of April, 2019. QR
(I!

seca ge,
Boni ,ezpur.
Dictated and corrected by me. “A
Se | Judge,
Qpributent,

 

Special POCSO Case No. 26 of 2016
Prosecution witnesses.

Go A Be Bo oe be I

Exhibits.

Ext. 1
Ext. 1

Ext. 2
Ext. 3

Ss

PW 1
PW 2
PW 3
PW 4
PW 5
PW 6
PW 7
PW 8

Page 10 of 10

: Father of the victim.

: mother of the victim.

: Mahesh Kheria

: Victim

: Dr. Tutumoni Handique, M.O.
: Md. Idrish Alli.

: Jaher Alli ~\
: I.0.Lakhi Prasad Kachari. QR

FIR O
164 Cr.P.C. statement of ee)
Sketch map \S

Charge sheet «S

.Barman)

Special Judge,
D ONITPUR: TEZPUR

s
R

 

Special POCSO Case No. 26 of 2016
