IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE (POCSO): KAMRUP(M), AT GUWAHATI
SESSIONS CASE NO.14/17
(Under Section u/s 376 of the IPC, r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012)

Present: S.P. Moitra,
Special Judge
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
State of Assam

«Vs —
Mahananda Das
cxveuswex Accused Person
Appearance for the Parties:
For the State : Smt. Deepa Bezbaruah
veseesneeees Learned Special Public Prosecutor
For the accused : Sri Satyanarayan Nath, Lalit Kr Nath, B. Devi, D. Talukdar
wx noc names wens Learned Advocates
Date of recording evidence : 05.12.2017, 30.01.2018,03.03.2018, 25.05.2018,
25.06.2018, 28.08.2018,
Date of Argument : 20.09.2018
Date of Judgment : 28.09.2018
JUDGMENT

1. The facts constituting the case of the prosecution, as emanated from the written
FIR (Ext.3), lodged by the informant (name withheld to conceal the identity of the
victim), are that on 26.08.2015, at about 1:30 pm, while the victim (name withheld and
Bs

here in after referred to as Miss X), a minor girl of 8 years old was alone in the house,
the accused person named above induced her to go to his rented house and thereafter
committed penetrative sexual assault on her. When her mother came back to the house,

she came to know about the incident from the minor victim.

On the basis of the written FIR (Ext.3), Gorchuk P.S Case No. 141/15 was
registered u/s 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012, in short,
POCSO Act, 2012. During investigation of the case, I/O recorded the statement of the
witnesses, including the victim. The victim was sent for medical examination and her
statement was also recorded u/s 164 of the CrP.C. The accused person was arrested
and he was forwarded to judicial custody. On completion of the investigation, the
accused person was charge sheeted u/s 376 of the IPC, r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
2012.

The accused person, who was on Court bail, entered appearance after receiving
the summons. Copies of the relevant documents were furnished to the accused, in
compliance to the provision of Section 207 of the Cr.P.C. On consideration of charge,
charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012, r/w Section 376 of the IPC was framed. Charge
was read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and stood to

face the trial.

To bring home the charge, prosecution examined, as many as, 8 witnesses on its
behalf including the M/O and I/O. Prosecution also exhibited some of the documents.
The multicolour frock and the body colour panty of the victim were exhibited as material
exhibits. The defence plea was of complete denial of any guilt. The statement of the
accused was recorded u/s 313 of the Cr.P.C, in which too, the accused person pleaded
his innocence and stated that he was implicated falsely in this case. Defence adduced

the evidence of two witnesses on its behalf.

I heard the argument advanced by the Learned Counsel for the parties.
Points for determination
Whether on 26.03.2015, at about 1:30 pm, the accused person at his rented
house, situated at Gorchuk, behind SBI Gorchuk Branch, committed penetrative

sexual assault on the victim (name withheld) aged about 8 years?

Decision and Reasons thereof

I have gone carefully through the entire evidence on record and the materials
placed before me. To establish the offence u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012, the

prosecution must prove the following ingredients:-
1. That the victim is a child below the age of 18 years;

2. That the accused person had committed sexual assault on the child

victim;

3. That there was penetration of his penis to any extent, into the vagina of

the child victim.

Now, let me consider, how far the prosecution remained successful in establishing
the ingredients of the offence, punishable u/s 4 of the POCSO Act. PW.1 is the victim,
who was aged about 9 years on the date of her examination. A preliminary examination
was done to ascertain whether she had the ability to understand the questions and to
give rational answers. On being so satisfied, her testimony was recorded. As she was
below 12 years of age, she was not administered the oath. Her testimony reveals that
about 10 months back or more, one day, there was no school and she was in the house.
Her testimony further reveals that her mother went out for work and in the afternoon,
she went out for playing with her friend Mamoni. She testified further that they were
playing ‘par-pani’ and when she was coming back, she found petla (the accused person)
on the road. She stated that she had no knowledge about his good name, but the
accused person used to give her chocolate sometimes. She further testified that on that
day too, the accused person asked her to go with him with the assurance of giving her

chocolate. She deposed that she went with the accused person and added that the
accused person took her to a nearby jungle like place. However, she immediately
deposed that she had forgotten the place and added that the accused person took her
to his house. The witness narrated that on going there, the accused person asked her to
lie down on the bed and thereafter he did all the bad works with her. She stated that the
accused person also lied over her and she felt pain. The witness stated that there was
bleeding and after doing all the evil things, the accused person left her on the road. She
added that she then went back to her house and reported the incident to her mother.
She testified that her mother took her to the police station and her father also went
there. She added that police took her to the hospital and she was examined by the
doctor. She also added that on the next day, she was taken to a Magistrate and she
narrated everything there. She proved Ext.1 as her statement before the Magistrate and
Ext.1(1) and Ext.1(2) as her signatures. She added that she took medicine for about
four months. She also revealed that at the police station, she saw petla and added that
police brought him there. She disclosed that she did not go to school for about 3
months. During cross examination, she denied the suggestion that she deposed before
the Court under the instruction of her mother and on being tutored by her. She also
stated that the jungle is at a distance of about 20 mins walk from their house. She
stated that petla came to her house and added that he had a visiting term with her
house. She further stated that before the incident her parents had no any dispute with
petla. But after the incident they had a quarrel with petla. She stated further that petla

has two wives and four daughters and added that they were not in the house.

If her testimony is considered with her previous statement before the Magistrate,
it will be seen that she stated broadly in the same tune before the Ld. Magistrate, rather
she stated more clearly before the Magistrate, because the statement was recorded only
after 10 days of the occurrence and she had a fresh memory regarding the entire
incident. She had stated that on the date of occurrence, she had gone to the house of
the accused to play with his daughter and the accused person had sent his daughter to
a shop giving her 5 rupee note and thereafter he opened her (victim) pant and had
inserted his penis in her vagina(the witness described in her own language). She had

also stated before the Magistrate that getting pain, she cried, but the accused person
gagged her mouth with his hand. She had also stated that as the daughter of the
accused came back the accused person had left her and thereafter somehow she could
manage to go back to her house. The minor inconsistencies appeared in her evidence
are most natural at her age, particularly when the evidence was recorded before the
Court after almost 3 years. When the occurrence had taken place, she was about 6/7
years old and it is most natural that she forgot the details of the incident and only she
could remember the broad things which had happened to her. The Ld. Defence Counsel
also tried to discredit her evidence by putting question whether there were tigers, bears
in the said jungle and she with her self imagination imagined a situation and stated that
in the jungle tiger and bears are there. For that reasons only her testimony could not be
disbelieved. I find that her evidence is fully trustworthy and the defence failed to

disprove her evidence.

10. Lending corroboration, PW.2 Bulu Begum, the mother of the victim, testified that
the occurrence took place about 3 years back and on the date of occurrence, her
husband went out in the morning for his work. She added that she also went out at
about 10:00 am along with one of their neighbour Bina for going to Sonapur. She added
that her daughter was aged about 7/8 years at that time and she told her to remain in
the house. She added that accused Mahananda Das was their neighbour at that time
and in between their house, there was a path. She stated further that his (accused) wife
was also not in the house as she was working as maid. The witness further testified that
she came back from Sonapur at about 7 pm and after coming back she called her
daughter, but her daughter replied that she was not in a position to get up. She testified
that she helped her to come and saw blood in her frock and panty. She deposed that on
being asked, she (Miss X) told her that petla had done all the things to her. The witness
clarified that her daughter had no knowledge about the actual name of accused
Mahananda Das and she knew him as petla. The witness corroborated that she told her
(PW.2) that petla had taken her to his house and thereafter he had committed sexual
assault on her. PW2 stated that blood was still oozing from her private part and then she
took her to the house of Bina Bharali, another tenant and Janu Begum also came there.

She stated that they all saw her condition and thereafter advised her to go to the PS.
The witness stated that she informed her husband over phone, who was then driving
the vehicle of O/C, Paltanbazar. She added that her husband came to Gorchuk PS and
lodged the FIR. She also stated that the police immediately came and arrested accused
Mahananda Das. Her testimony also reveals that they all went to the P.S and at the P.S
one woman officer asked her daughter about the incident. The witness disclosed that
her daughter was in a semi conscious state and on seeing her condition, the officer told
her to take her immediately to the hospital. She added that her (victim) blood stained
frock and panty were seized by the police. He proved Ext.2 as the seizure list and Ext.
2(1) as her signature. She added that police took her to GMCH and after her
examination, she was given medicines etc and the woman officer arranged for her
shelter and treatment in an Ashram like place at or around Ulubari Majar. She stated
that her daughter was kept there for about 1 month and about 3 days after, from that
place, she was produced before the Court for recording her statement. She proved Ext.1
as the statement of her daughter and Ext.1(1) and Ext.1(2) as the signatures of her
daughter. She testified that her daughter was not in a position to go to school for about
3 months and for her treatment and subsequent look after, they had to spend more than
Rs. 50,000/-. During cross examination, the witness testified that after the incident, the
accused person approached them to settle the matter amicably. She stated that the
victim and her twin sister are the daughters of her previous marriage. She added that
her first husband died and thereafter she got married with Azad Ali and he has been
looking after since their age of 1 and half years. She also testified that the rented house
where the occurrence had taken place, was surrounded by other houses and there were
many other neighbours. But she hastened to add that at the day time, everyone goes
out of the house. She stated that although her daughter was allowed to come to the

house after one month, the doctor advised them not to send her to school.

Lil. Thus, I find that this vital witness fully corroborates the testimony of the victim.
She gave a vivid description of the entire incident, she heard from her daughter
immediately after the occurrence. Although she was not an eye witness of the
occurrence, she narrated that she had seen blood stains at her frock and at her panty

and blood was still oozing out from the vagina of the victim girl. She stated that the
victim girl was in a semi conscious state at that time and she was not even in a position
to stand without help and assistance. Her testimony further reveals that she (victim)
suffered for more than one month of the alleged occurrence. I find nothing to disbelieve
the testimony of this vital witness. The defence could not disprove her testimony nor
could bring anything that they had any inimical relationship with the accused for which,

they might be interested to give evidence against him.

12. PW.3 (name withheld) is the informant of the case. He is the step father of the
victim girl and he testified that Miss X is presently aged about 9/10 years. Broadly in the
same tune, this witness stated that about 2 years back, the occurrence had taken place
and at that time, he was driving the police vehicle of Paltanbazar P.S. He testified that
on the day of occurrence, like other days he came out in the morning to his duty and his
wife and his daughters were in the house. He also added that in the afternoon at about
3:30 pm, while he was going towards Birubari with the officer of Paltanbazar PS,
suddenly he received a phone call from his wife. The witness testified that his wife told
him to come back to the house hurriedly and then he thought that there must have
been something and he asked her. He further testified that she (PW.2) told him that
accused Mahananda Das @ Petla had committed sexual assault on his minor daughter.
The witness stated that he reported the incident to his officer and he allowed him to go
to the house immediately. The witness added that he also told him that he would inform
Gorchuk P.S and immediately PW.3 returned back to his house and on going there he
found that Gorchuk P.S had already taken his daughter to the P.S with his wife. He
added that accused Mahananda Das @ Petla had also been taken to the P.S. The
witness stated that thereafter he went to Gorchuk P.S and hearing about the incident in
detail from his wife, he lodged the FIR. He proved Ext.3 as the FIR lodged by him and
Ext.3(1) as his signature. The witness stated that after filing of the FIR, police took his
daughter to GMCH and after her examination at GMCH, she was given medicine etc. and
from there police officer took her to a place opposite to Nehru Stadium. He testified that
she was kept there for about 1 day and thereafter she was taken to a place near
Rupnagar. He added that young children are kept there and his daughter was there for
3/4 days. The witness testified that thereafter he took her back to the house. He added

further that her statement was also recorded in the Court. He deposed that his daughter
was ill for about one month thereafter and was under treatment. He also added that up
to 6 months, they had to provide treatment to her. He specifically stated that accused
Mahananda Das, through others, offered him Rs. 1, 00,000/- to settle the case. During
cross examination, the witness stated that he lodged the FIR on that very day. He added
that he went to the P.S at about 4/4:30 pm. He also stated that it might be that FIR was
lodged at 9 pm after the treatment of his daughter. He could not say how much time his
wife was not in the house. He stated that he saw his daughter at the P.S and he asked
his daughter too about the incident. He stated that she was crying all along and on his
question, she indicated accused Mahananda Das, by raising her finger. During further
cross examination, the witness stated that when he came to Guwahati to stay in that
campus on rent, he met Mahananda Das and in between the two families, there was

cordial relationship.

13. On a close scrutiny of his evidence too, I find that the defence could not disprove
any of his testimony before the Court. Of course, there is a time gap. He stated that he
was informed at 3:30 pm, while he was driving the police vehicle and arrived at the
house at about 4/4:30 pm. Save and except this discrepancy regarding the time of
information, there is not even a single contradiction or omission in his testimony. He
was a driver by profession and he went out in the morning to his job. Being the driver of
a police vehicle, he remained busy and as such there may be discrepancies in disclosing
the time. Particularly when the information was received, then also he was driving the
police vehicle with an officer to take him to Birubari. Thus merely because there is a
discrepancy in disclosing the time of receipt of the information, his entire evidence

cannot be disbelieved, particularly when his evidence could not be otherwise disproved.

14. PW.4 Binu Bala Bharali is a neighbour of both the accused person and the victim
girl. She has been residing in that campus for about 13/14 years and has been running a
petty business there. She knew the accused person from before as the accused person
was residing in the said campus as tenant. She also knows the victim and her mother.
She testified that the occurrence took place about 3 years back and lending

corroboration to the testimony of PW.2, she stated that she went to Sonapur on that day
and the mother of the victim also accompanied her. She further lends corroboration by
stating that they came back to Gorchuk at about 6/6:30 pm. She added that her room is
at the front and she entered into her room and the mother of the victim was staying in
the last room of the line. She added that immediately after 10 minutes, she came to her
room and requested her to go to her room. She added that she went there and in her
presence, the mother of the victim asked the victim about what had happened and the
victim told her mother that accused Petla @ Mahananda Das had sexually assaulted her.
She added that hearing the same, she came back and thereafter they lodged the FIR
and police arrested Mahananda Das. During cross examination too, she corroborated
PW.2 by stating that they went to Sonapur at about 9:30/10 am and they came back in

the evening.

15. PW.7 Purnima Biswas is another tenant residing in the said campus. She stated
that the victim with her family used to reside in the inner side of the campus and she
(PW.7) was residing by the road side. She testified that the occurrence took place about
3 years back and on the date of occurrence, she took her son to private tuition and
came back to the house at about 5:30/6 pm. The witness testified that she played
games with her son for sometimes and thereafter went to take him to study. She added
that at that time, mother of the victim came to the house of Bina Bharali and was talking
loudly. She added that hearing the same, she also went there and she heard from her
(PW.2) that she was not in the house and after coming back, she made tea and
thereafter called her daughter. She added that the mother of the victim also reported
that as the victim was not coming out, she went to see and saw that she was lying in an
unnatural way. The witness testified that mother of the victim came there to call Bina
Bharali to her house to see what had happened to her daughter. This witness was not

cross examined even.

16. The testimonies of Bina Bharali and this particular witness corroborated the
testimony of mother of the victim. Although PW.7 was not an eye witness of the
occurrence, she specifically corroborated the testimony of PW.2 that immediately after
coming to the house and talking to her daughter, she rushed back to the house of Bina

Bharali and reported the incident to her. Bina Bharali also lent corroboration to the
10

evidence of PW2 that in her presence, the victim was asked by her mother and the

victim had told them that accused Petla @ Mahananda Das had sexually assaulted her.

17. Coupled with this, ocular testimonies of the witnesses received full corroboration
from the testimony of the doctor. Dr. Anurupa Choudhury, an Asst. Professor in the
Department of Forensic Medicine, GMCH, Guwahati examined the victim girl on the very
next date of the occurrence, i.e, on 27.03.2015 in connection with Gorchuk P.S Case No.
141/15. Her evidence discloses that on physical examination, it was found that her
(victim) height was 119 cm, weight was 20 kg, the chest girth was 55 cm, abdominal
girth was 52 cm. She added that the victim had 20 teeth and all were temporary. She
further added that her (victim) auxiliary hair and public hair did not develop and breast
was childlike and she did not attain her menarche. She discloses further that on her
genital examination, she found that her genital organs were developed. Her testimony
disclosed that both labia majora were abraded (reddish scab) and outer aspect of both
labia minora were abraded (reddish scab) and inner aspect of both labia minora were
contused, bluish in colour. She added that hymen was intact, but red coloured, abrasions
with oozing present at the margin of the hymnal orifice and it was tender to touch. Her
evidence further reveals that cervix could not be examined, uteras was not palpable per
abdominal and for detection of venereal disease, she was referred to ICTC, GMCH for
needful. She testified that vaginal swabs were collected from hymen and labia minora.
She added that there was no evidence of struggle on the wearing garment and blood
stain was present on her under garment. She also added that no abnormality was
detected on her mental condition. She discloses that on radiological investigation, X-ray
of wrist, elbow and shoulder joint did not show epiphyseal union. She stated that there
were six carpel bones on the wrist joint. She discloses that on laboratory investigation,
microscopic examination of vaginal smears showed presence of spermatozoa, but no
gonococci. In her opinion the victim was above 6 years and below 8 years, there was
evidence of recent sexual intercourse, detected on her person, injuries detected on her
private parts and the girl was referred to ICTC GMCH and Gynecological OPD for
needful. She proved Ext.5 as the medical report and Ext.5(2), Ext.5(3) are her
signatures. She also proved Ext.5(4) as the signature of Dr. R Chaliha, Head of the

Department of Forensic Medicine, GMCH. During cross examination, she stated that it is
11

not possible that such type of injuries might even be caused by dash against sharp
object. Thus, the evidence of the doctor and the medical report gave clear finding of
penetrative sexual assault on the minor victim. There was nothing abnormality that the
doctor did not find any evidence of struggle on the wearing garment, because those
garments had already been seized by the Investigating Officer for forensic examination,
rather blood stain found by the doctor on her under garment at the time of examination
are sufficient to show the correctness of the finding of the doctor that the blood was still

oozing at the margin of the hymnal orifice, which is clearly suggestive of penetration.

18. The prosecution case also received further corroboration from the testimony of
PW.6 Renu Bora Handique, Scientific Officer, Serology Division, Department of Forensic
Science, Kahilipara. Her evidence discloses that on 04.04.2015, she was working as
Scientific Officer, Serology Division, DFS, Kahilipara and on that day, she received a
parcel in connection with Gorchuk P.S Case No. 141/15 from Departmental In charge for
scientific examination. She stated that the parcel consisted of two exhibits. She
described the articles as one mutli colour frock, which contains stain of suspected semen
marked as A, which was again marked by her as Sero 3481/A, one body colour panty,
containing stain of suspected semen marked as B, which was again marked by her as
Sero 3481/B. She disclosed the result of examination as Ext No. Sero 3481/A and Sero
3481/B gave positive test for human spermatozoa. She proved Ext.6 as her report and
Ext.6(1) as her signature. She also proved Ext.7 as the forwarding report issued by
Director M.N Bora and Ext.7(1) as the signature of Director M.N Bora. She added that
along with the forwarding report, the exhibits were also returned back. She also stated
that SI Pallabi Saikia received back the exhibits along with the report on 05.06.2015.
During cross examination, the witness stated that the exhibits which she had examined
are not before the Court at the time of her examination. She stated that she received
the exhibits on 04.04.2015. She further stated that the exhibits were brought to the DFS
by special messenger. She stated that she opined that the stains were of human

spermatozoa, but she cannot say nor she examined, who was responsible.
2

19. PW.8 Rinkumoni Kalita is the Investigating Officer of the case. At the relevant
point of time, she was posted at All Women P.S, Panbazar. She testified that on that day
on the basis of requisition from O/C Gorchuk P.S and the telephonic instruction from
DCP, Central, she went to the Gorchuk P.S and she was entrusted to do the investigation
on the basis of the FIR lodged by Md. Azad Ali. She proved Ext.3 as the said FIR and
Ext.4 as the printed form of FIR, wherein she was instructed in writing to do the
investigation of the case. She deposed that she found the victim and the informant at
the P.S and immediately she examined them and recorded their statement. She also
testified that on that very night, she took the victim girl to GMCH for medical
examination, but on that night she could not be examined due to shortage of forensic
medicine doctor. Her testimony also reveals that on that night, she seized the wearing
apparels of the victim girl for forensic examination. She specifically stated that her frock
and the panty were seized vide Ext.2 seizure list and proved Ext.2(2) as her signature.
She further disclosed that she found the accused at the P.S on that very night and
recorded his statement. She also disclosed that as the victim had clearly identified him
as the assailant, she arrested the accused person for commission of offence u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act. The witness also stated that on that very night, the victim was sent to Child
line, Guwahati and the accused person was kept at Gorchuk P.S for the night and on the
next morning she visited the place of occurrence and prepared a sketch map of the P.O.
She proved Ext.8 as the sketch map of the P.O. She added that she also recorded the
statement of other witnesses and thereafter she took the victim to GMCH for her
medical examination. She added that it took two days for her medical at GMCH and after
medical examination of the victim, she was forwarded to the Court on 30.03.2015 for
recording her statement. She disclosed that the Ld. CJM instructed her to produce the
victim to this Court for recording her statement and accordingly, the victim was
produced in this Court on 31.03.2015 for recording her statement. She added that on
that day too, it was not done and thereafter she came to the Court on 01.04.2015 for
recording the statement of the victim. She disclosed that on 01.04.2015, the Ld. Special
Judge passed an order directing the Ld. CJM for recording her statement u/s 164 of the
Cr.P.C and accordingly it was recorded on 06.04.2015. The witness stated that during
the entire period, the victim was placed at Child line, Guwahati and thereafter under the

instruction of the Court, she was handed over to her guardian, i.e, to her father. The
13

witness also deposed that on 04.04.2015, the seized apparels of the victim were sent to
FSL, Kahilipara for examination and added that she collected the report of the FSL. She
added that the seized articles were also returned back by the FSL in sealed condition.
She proved Material Ext.1 as the frock of the victim and Material Ext.2 as the seized
panty of the victim. Her testimony also reveals that finding sufficient materials against
accused Mahananda Das, she submitted the charge sheet against him u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act. During cross examination of the witness, the prosecution could not disprove
her testimony. Her testimony fully corroborates the fact that the seizure of the frock
(Material Ext.1) and the panty (Material Ext.2) of the victim girl and subsequent
forwarding of the same to FSL, Guwahati. Her testimony also reveals that the victim
specifically identified the accused person. She also corroborates the testimony of the
witnesses that the victim was kept in the custody of the Child line till 06.04.2015, i.e, for
about 10 days.

20. The accused person in his statement recorded u/s 313 of the CrP.C. denied the
allegation and stated that he was falsely implicated. In support of his contention, he
adduced the evidence of two witnesses. DW.1 Manju Das is the wife of the accused. She
stated that on that morning, her husband went to Nongpo, Meghalaya. She also for the
first time stated that prior to the occurrence, mother of the victim had a quarrel with her
husband in connection with a mobile and in that connection, a police case was also filed.
She tried to establish that out of grudge and previous enmity, the present case was
filed. However, the accused Mahananda Das never stated that he had any quarrel with
the mother of the victim in connection with any mobile handset or for any other
purpose. Rather, he had stated in his statement, recorded u/s 313 CrP.C. that one Janu
Begum had conspired with others to put him in troubles. Although DW.1 stated about a
police case, the defence did not produce any such document to establish the
authenticity of such allegation. Thus, the story of quarrel and the consequent lodging of
police case could not be proved. During cross examination, DW.1 specifically stated that
she has no personal knowledge about the occurrence. She admitted further that police
came to her, but she did not state before the I/O that her husband had gone to Nongpo

in the morning for his work. During cross examination, she even contradicted her
14

evidence in chief by stating that regarding mobile handset no case was filed earlier and

stated that she thinks that a mental difference was created in between them.

21. DW.2 Jamuna Barman simply stated that about 3 years back, she heard about
the occurrence for which Mahananda Das was arrested. She also stated that she heard
that he was falsely implicated in this case. Thus, regarding implicating of the accused
falsely was only heard by her and her evidence in his regard remains hearsay. During
cross examination she specifically stated that she has no personal knowledge about the
occurrence and added that Mahananda Das brought her to adduce evidence. She further
stated that the distance of her house from the house, where Mahananda Das was
residing at the time of occurrence, was about 1 km. Thus, although the defence
adduced evidence of two witnesses, the defence could not disprove the testimony of the

prosecution witnesses, nor could destroy the evidence.

22. I have already noted that the oral testimonies of the witnesses got corroboration
from the testimony of the doctor who had examined the victim on the next morning
itself and the evidence of the doctor clearly reflects that there was an evidence of recent
sexual intercourse detected on her person and the doctor also reflected the injuries on
her private part which is more than sufficient to hold that there was forceful penetration.
The ocular testimonies of the witnesses got further corroboration and the prosecution
case got further strengthened from the testimony of PW.6, Renu Bora Handique,
Scientific Officer, Serology Division, Department of Forensic Science, Kahilipara. The
expert clearly reflected that the multicolour frock and one body colour panty were sent
to her for examination and the examination of both the exhibits gave positive test for
human spermatozoa. The defence also tried to submit that there might be any other
person behind the occurrence and further submitted that she was too young to identify
the accused. But it is to be remembered that she identified the accused person on that
very night and there was no delay. She knew the accused person from before because
the accused person was residing just near the rented accommodation where the victim
was also residing and she also stated that accused person used to offer her chocolate

regularly and on that day too, the accused person lured her to accept the chocolate by
15

going to his house. It is absurd that the victim, a minor girl of 6/7 years of age would
falsely implicate the accused person for committing sexual assault on her to shield the
actual culprit, that too without having any reason or rhyme. There was no room for
doubt that there was forceful penetration to some extent and as such it is hard to
believe that instead of identifying the actual culprit, she would identify another innocent

person.

23. Besides Section 29 of the POCSO Act, 2012 creates a statutory presumption in

favour of the case of the prosecution. It reads as follows:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences - Where a person is prosecuted for
committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
sections 3, 5, 7 and 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that
such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence,

as the case may be, unless the contrary is proved.”

Thus, it creates a reverse burden upon the accused . It is a species of such exception to
the ordinary rule of presumption of innocence. It is true that the prosecution must lay
the foundation by adducing legally admissible evidence, but once the foundation is laid,
it becomes incumbent on the accused to rebut the evidence. Here in the present case
in hand, the prosecution remained successful to lay sufficient evidence against the
accused person to prove that the accused person had committed penetrative sexual
assault on the minor victim. Hence the presumption u/s 29 of the POCSO Act, 2012 will
come into play. The defence could not discharge its reverse burden. The Ld. Defence
Counsel relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in Sahid Hossain
Biswas Vs. State of West Bengal, reported in 2018 (1) Acquittal 311 (Cal) in
support of his contention. But the facts of the case are completely different from the
facts of the case in hand. In that case, the medical evidence totally contradicted the
testimony of the victim. The defence also remained successful in establishing previous
enmity in between the parties and as such, the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court opined that
the defence remained successful in rebutting the statutory presumption. The same is

clearly not the facts of the present case in hand.
16

24. Accordingly, I find that the testimony of the victim and other witnesses are fully
trustworthy and believable and as it got corroboration from the testimony of the medical
officer, as well as, Scientific Officer, there remains no room for any doubt that on that
day, the victim girl was sexually assaulted by none other than the accused person. There
was clear evidence of penetration and the section requires that even a slight penetration
is sufficient to constitute the offence of penetrative sexual assault. Accordingly, I am
constraint to hold that the prosecution successfully establishes the guilt of the accused,

removing all shadow of doubt.

25. In result, accused Mahananda Das @ Petla is held guilty of offence, punishable
u/s 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, r/w Section 376 of

the Indian Penal Code and accordingly he is convicted under the said section of law.

26. Considering the heinous nature of the offence, I do not find it a fit case where
the accused person can be granted the benefit of the Probation of Offenders Act or the
benefit of Section 360 of the Cr.P.C.

27. I heard the convict on the point of sentence. His statement is recorded in a
separate sheet, attached to the CR. In his statement, the accused person sought

leniency.

28. Keeping in view of the nature and gravity of the offence and other relevant
factors for determining the quantum of sentence, I find that the nature of justice will be
appropriately met, if the convict is sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years with
fine of Rs.20,000/-, in default, to rigorous imprisonment for another 6 months. The

period of imprisonment already undergone by the convict will be set off.
17

29. The amount of fine, if realized, will be used for payment of compensation to the

victim.

30. The case is also referred to the District Legal Service Authority for payment of

compensation to the victim under the Victim Compensation Scheme.

31. The seized articles (Material Exhibits) are before the Court. The same may be

destroyed after waiting for the appeal period.

32. The convict has been explained his right to prefer the appeal and even jail

appeal.

33. Free copy of the judgment be given to the convict. Also, copy of the judgment be
sent to the District Magistrate, Kamrup (M), Guwahati under the provisions of section
365 of the CrP.C.

34. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 28" day of September, 2018.

(S.P. Moitra)
Special Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati

Dictated & corrected by me.

(S.P. Moitra)
Special Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
(A)

(B)

(C)

(E)

18

APENDIX

Prosecution Exhibits

Ext-1
Ext-2
Ext-3
Ext-4
Ext-5
Ext-6
Ext-7
Ext-8
Ext-9

: Statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 of the Cr.P.C.
: Seizure list

: FILR

: Printed form of F.I.R

: Report of the doctor

: Report of Serology Division

: Forwarding of returning the exhibits

: Sketch Map

: Charge sheet

Material Ext.1 : Multicoloured Frock of the victim

Material Ext.2 : Body colour panty of the victim

Defense Exhibit : Nil

Court Exhibit : Nil

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW-1
PW-2
PW-3
PW-4
PW-5
PW-6
PW-7
PW-8

: Janmoni Begum

: Bulu Begum

: Md. Azad Ali

: Binu Bala Bharali

: Dr. Anurupa Choudhury
: Renu Bora Handique

: Purnima Biswas

: Rinkumoni Kalita
(F)

(G)

19

Defense Witnesses

DW-1 : Manju Das

DW-2 : Jamuna Barman

Court Witnesses : Nil.

(S.P. Moitra)
Special Judge,
Kamrup(M), Guwahati
