eCourtIs copy

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,

Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State
Learned Legal Aid Counsel

Charge framed on
Evidence recorded on

SPECIAL CASE NO.02/2019
U/S.4 of POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM

Vs

Md. Gaji Rahman
S/O. Md. Ramjan Ali
Vill- Jamunatari

P.S. Gossaigaon
Dist. Kokrajhar

benueees Accused person.

Mr. Manjit Ghose, Special P.P
Mr. Apple Mahmud

06.09.2019

21.09.2019; 15.11.2019;
29.11.2019; 13.12.2019;

10.01.2020.
Argument heard on 19.02.2020
Judgment pronounced on 28.02.2020
UDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution is that one xxx, father of the victim,

lodged an FIR at Gossaigaon Police Station alleging that on 6.10.2018
at about 1 PM, accused Gazi Rahman committed rape on his minor
daughter, xxx, the victim, at a pump house near his agricultural fields.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
2 eCourtIs copy

On 14.10. 2018, the victim wanted to commit suicide by slitting her wrist
and that is how he came to know about the occurrence of rape.

Z On receipt of the FIR, a case under Section 342/506 of IPC, R/W
Section 4 of POCSO Act was registered and after completion of the
investigation, a charge sheet was laid against the accused Md. Gaji
Rahman for commission of offences U/S 342/506 of IPC, R/W Section 4
of POCSO Act.

3. Copies of the relevant documents were furnished to him. After
hearing both sides charges under Section- 4 of POCSO Act was framed
against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.
The case was transferred to this Court for disposal

4. In the course of trial prosecution examined 9 (nine ) witnesses. At
the closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined
U/S 313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and the
accused declined to adduce any evidence.

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION $:-

(i) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on
the victim?

DECISION AND REASONS :

6. Pwl xxx, the father of the victim, deposed that about 1 year back
when he returned home after daily labour work, he came to know that
his daughter xxx, the victim, had gone to his agriculture field, near the
residence of accused, to bring vegetables and she has not returned
home since then. He came to know from other people that Gaji Rahman
had abducted his daughter. At that time his daughter was about 15
years of age. In this regard, he lodged an FIR at Gossaigaon Police
Station. He had put his thumb impression in the FIR. After lodging the
FIR police recovered his daughter. Her statement was recorded by the
Court U/S 164 of Cr.PC and her custody was given to him. The victim is
presently under his custody.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIs copy

7. In cross examination Pwl deposed that he had not obtained the
birth certificate of his daughter. He deposed that he had not submitted
any age proof of his daughter at the time of filing FIR. He also deposed
that he does not know the contents of FIR. He was asked to put thumb
impression in the FIR and accordingly he put his thumb impression in
the FIR. Pw 1 admitted that the admission of his daughter in the School

was in over- age.

8. Pw2 xxx, the mother of victim, deposed that her daughter is
presently aged about 16 years. About 1 year back she had gone to
Tulsibil. Her husband used to work at Hatipota. In the afternoon, her
daughter had gone to field to pluck raddish. The residence of Gaji
Rahman is near their paddy field. When she returned from Tulsibil her
daughter told her that while plucking raddish, accused Gaji Rahman
took her inside a Pump house and committed rape on her. She informed
her husband who came on the following day. There was village meeting
but as the matter could not be resolved, her husband lodged an FIR. Her
daughter was medically examined and her statement was recorded in
the Court. After the occurrence the accused was arrested and after he
was released on bail, he again committed rape on her daughter. Her
husband again filed a seperate FIR against the accused.

9. In cross examination Pw2 deposed that near her paddy field there
are houses of Sahar Ali alias Khurmawala, Anar Ali, Nuruddin, Jalal Mistri.
None of these persons’ houses have any boundary in their house. Pw 2
also deposed that her daughter informed her on the very date of
occurrence. Pw2 denied the suggestion that she stated before the police
that she had come to know about the occurrence on 13.10.2018. Pw 2
admitted that her daughter did not show her private parts and that she
had not seen any blood stains in the dress of her daughter. Pw2 denied
the suggestion she had stated before the police that her daughter had
washed the clothes which she was wearing at the time of occurrence of
the offence. Pw 2 admitted that there was delay in lodging the FIR due
to village meeting . Pw 2 admitted that accused Gaji Rahman and her
daughter had decided to marry. Pw 2 deposed that after Gaji Rahman
was released on bail, her daughter went to the residence of Gaji

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
4 eCourtIs copy

Rahman and stayed there for one week and that they had not filed any
FIR when her daughter was in the residence of accused.

10. Pw3, xxx, the victim, deposed that about 1 ¥% years back she had
gone to her field to pluck radish. At that time, accused caught her and
took her to a pump house nearby and started beating her. Thereafter, he
committed sexual intercourse with her and and left. She returned to her
house and informed her mother. She was medically examined at
Kokrajhar Hospital. She was also produced before the Magistrate. Her
statement was recorded.

11. In cross examination Pw3 deposed that she does not remember
her date of birth. She deposed that she studied in Class-IV at Jamunatari
No.550 L.P School. She admitted that the pump house is situated near
the paddy field and there is a bamboo bush near their paddy field. She
had screamed when accused dragged her to the pump house. She
deposed that when the accused was beating her she had screamed.
After beating her, the accused went to his house and she returned to
her house. She deposed that the clothes which she was wearing at the
time of occurrence is at the residence of accused Gaji Rahman. Pw 3
admitted that her mother had told her to give a statement in the
manner as stated in the statement U/S 164 of CrPC. Today also her
mother had told her to give the statement in the manner as deposed.

12. Pw4 Dr. Sushma Brahma deposed that she had examined the
victim and found that her age is in between 18 to 20 years and that she
is habituated to sexual intercourse.

13. In cross examination Pw4 deposed that she had not found any
marks of violence of the body and private parts of victim.

14. Pw5 Ms. Nurjahan Bibi, Pw6 Md. Hajimuddin, Pw7 Md. Nuruddin
Sheikh deposed that they had heard that there has been a dispute
between the accused and the victim but they do not know the details.

15. Pw8 Md. Eyad Ali deposed that he is a village headman. About a
year back father of the victim had brought to his knowledge that
accused had committed rape on his daughter. In this regard there was a

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIs copy

village meeting and accused was also present in the meeting. Accused
confessed before the villagers that he had sexual intercourse with the
victim. Thereafter, the father of the victim lodged an FIR because there

was no settlement in the village meeting.

16. In cross examination Pw8 deposed that in village meeting they
note down the proceeding but in this meeting there was no written
proceeding. Pw 8 has denied the suggestion that there was no meeting
in the village. The meeting took place 3 days after the occurrence.Pw8
has also denied the suggestion that he did not state before police that
in the village meeting accused confessed his guilt. Pw8 has also denied
the suggestion that he had deposed falsely.

17. Pw9 Sri Akhay Narayan Dev deposed that on 15.10.2018 he was
posted as In-charge at Tulisbil Police Out Post under Gossaigaon Police
Station. On that day he was entrusted with the investigation of an FIR
lodged by Sahar Ali at Gossaigaon Police Station in connection with
which a case U/S 342/506 of IPC , R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act was
registered. In the course of investigation he recorded the statement of
the complainant, victim and other witnesses. He also went to the place
of occurrence. He took steps for causing the medical examination of the
victim at RNB Civil Hospital. He also took steps for recording of
statement of the victim U/S 164 of Cr.PC.Pw9 deposed that from the
School records , it came to light that victim is a minor hence, having
found sufficient materials against the accused Gaji Rahman, he
submitted charge sheet against him for commission of offences U/S
342/506 of IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act. Material Exhibit-1 is the
School certificate collected by him. Exhibit-3 is the charge sheet and
Exhibit-3(1) is his signature.

18. In cross examination of Pw9 deposed that the statement of the
victim U/S 164 of CrPC was recorded on 22.10.2018. He deposed that
the victim was with her parents till the recording of her statement U/S
164 of CrPC. He deposed that he received the School certificate on
26.11.2018 and he received the medical report on 27.11.2018. He
deposed that he had not seized School admission register and he had

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
6 eCourtIs copy

personally not seen the School Admission register. He deposed that he
had not examined the headmaster of the School as witness and that, he
had not investigated the discrepancy appearing in the age of the victim
in the school certificate and in the medical report. He deposed that he
had not seized apparel of the victim because he was told by family
members that they had washed the clothes. Pw-9 deposed that Pw-2
Jabeda stated before him that she first came to know’ about the
occurrence on 13.10.2018. Pw-2 stated before him that she had washed
the clothes of Salema. Pw- Yad Ali did not state before him that accused
confessed before the villagers that he committed rape on Salema. Pw9
has denied the suggestion that he had not investigated the case

properly.

19. The learned defence Counsel has argued that as per the medical
opinion the victim had attained the age of 18 years at the time of
occurrence of offence and _ considering the other attending
circumstances the relationship between the accused and the victim was
consensual in nature hence, the accused may be acquitted from the
charges.

20. On the other hand, the learned Special P.P. has submitted that in
the course of investigation, the Investigating Officer had obtained the
School certificate which shows that the date of birth of the victim is
15.06.2004, thus, the victim is minor.

21. It is seen that there was an apparent conflict between Medical
opinion and the School documents. M. Ext-1, the school certificate,
shows that the victim passed the Lower Primary section on 31.12.2014
and at that time her age was 10 years 6 months and 16 days. The
occurrence took place in the year 2018 and therefore, according to
School document, the victim was aged about 14 years at the time of
incident. It also needs to be taken into account that the victim comes
from family where the parents are not literate. Hence, some variation in
the date of birth is acceptable. However, under no circumstances the
victim can be said to have attained the age of 18 years on the date of
occurrence for, that would mean that the victim had passed Lower

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
7 eCourtIs copy

Primary section at the age of 14 years and, in other words, the victim
first got admitted to school at the age of 10 years. The medical opinion
is based on certain medical parameters and it may differ from person to
person considering individual medical features. Since, the school
certificate pertains to the year 2014 it cannot be said to be a fabricated
document when the occurrence took place 4 years after the victim left
the school. Hence, in the present case applying the principle of
preponderance of probabilities, | believe the victim had not attained the
age of 18 years at the time of occurrence of offence.

22. Coming now to the charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, |
would like to point that Section 29 of the POCSO Act provides that where
a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to
commit any offence under Sections 3, 5, 7 and Section 9 of this Act, the
Special Court shall presume, that such person has committed or abetted
or attempted to commit theoffence, as the case may be unless the
contrary is proved.

23. In Noor Aga v. State of Punjab, (2008) 16 SCC 417 it was
held by the Hon’ble Supreme Court that the provision for reverse burden
is not only provided for under the special Acts but alsounder the general
statutes like the Penal Code. The Evidence Actprovides for such a burden
on an accused in certain matters, as,for example, under Sections 113-A
and 113-B thereof. It further held that enforcement of law, on the one
hand, and protection ofcitizen from operation of injustice in the hands of
the lawenforcement machinery, on the other, is, thus, required to be
balanced. The constitutionality of a penal provision placing burden of
proof on an accused, thus, must be tested on the anvil of the State's
responsibility to protect innocent citizens. The court must assess the
importance of the right being limited to our society and this must be
weighed against the purpose of the limitation. The purpose of the
limitation is the reason for the law or conduct whichlimits the right.

24. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Noor Aga (supra), added that
presumption would operate in the trial of the accused only in the event
the circumstances contained therein are fully satisfied. An initial burden

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
8 eCourtIs copy

exists upon the prosecution and only when it stands satisfied, would the
legal burden shift. Even then, the standard of proof required for the
accused to prove his innocence is not as high as that of the prosecution.
Whereas the standard of proof required to prove the guilt of the accused
on the prosecution is“beyond all reasonable doubt” but it is
“oreponderance of probability” on the accused.

25. In the present case, the victim stood her ground that when she
went to the paddy fields, the accused caught her and took her to a
pump house nearby and started beating her. Thereafter, he committed
sexual intercourse with her and and left. This is a damning piece of
evidence with no indication that the sexual intercourse was consensual
in nature. Further, since the victim has been held to be a child, her
consent becomes irrelevant. The onus on the accused is therefore two
fold; namely, that no incident ever took place, secondly, even if such
incident took place it was with consent. In second circumstances, the
consent can only be said to be a mitigating circumstances with respect
to sentencing.

26. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh, (1996) 2 SCC 384 it was
held that while evaluating evidence, remain alive to the fact that in a
case of rape, no self-respecting woman would come forward in a court
just to make a humiliating statement against her honour such as is
involved in the commission of rape on her. In cases involving sexual
molestation, supposed considerations which have no material effect on
the veracity of the prosecution case or even discrepancies in the
statement of the prosecutrix should not, unless the discrepancies are
such which are of fatal nature, be allowed to throw out an otherwise
reliable prosecution case. The inherent bashfulness of the females and
the tendency to conceal outrage of sexual aggression are factors which
the courts should not overlook. The testimony of the victim in such
cases is vital and unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate
looking for corroboration of her statement, the courts should find no
difficulty to act on the testimony of a victim of sexual assault alone to
convict an accused where her testimony inspires confidence and is

found to be reliable. Seeking corroboration of her statement before

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
9 eCourtIs copy

relying upon the same, as a rule, in such cases amounts to adding insult
to injury. Why should the evidence of a girl or a woman who complains of
rape or sexual molestation, be viewed with doubt, disbelief or suspicion?
The court while appreciating the evidence of a prosecutrix may look for
some assurance of her statement to satisfy its judicial conscience, since
she is a witness who is interested in the outcome of the charge levelled
by her, but there is no requirement of law to insist upon corroboration of
her statement to base conviction of an accused. The evidence of a
victim of sexual assault stands almost on a par with the evidence of an
injured witness and to an extent is even more reliable. Just as a witness
who has sustained some injury in the occurrence, which is not found to
be self-inflicted, is considered to be a good witness in the sense that he
is least likely to shield the real culprit, the evidence of a victim of a
sexual offence is entitled to great weight, absence of corroboration
notwithstanding. Corroborative evidence is not an_ imperative
component of judicial credence in every case of rape. Corroboration as a
condition for judicial reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix is not a
requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under given
circumstances. It must not be overlooked that a woman or a girl
subjected to sexual assault is not an accomplice to the crime but is a
victim of another person's lust and it is improper and undesirable to test
her evidence with a certain amount of suspicion, treating her as if she
were an accomplice. Inferences have to be drawn from a given set of
facts and circumstances with realistic diversity and not dead uniformity
lest that type of rigidity in the shape of rule of law is introduced through
a new form of testimonial tyranny making justice a casualty. Courts
cannot cling to a fossil formula and insist upon corroboration even if,
taken as a whole, the case spoken of by the victim of sex crime strikes
the judicial mind as probable.

27. Inthe light of law as laid down in the case of Gurmit Singh, when |
read the evidence of pw 3, the victim, with respect to arguments
pertaining to delay in lodging the FIR, wavering evidence of pw 1, the
father, it is found that the evidence of pw 3 is of sterling character and
she deposed specifically about the ordeal she went through. The
evidence does not suffer from any exagerration and is found to be

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
10 eCourtIs copy

precise. Thus, pitted against such clincing evidence, the onus placed on
the accused stands not discharged, for there are no circumstances on
record to show that victim has any motive to depose falsely against the
accused. In the given circumstances, the victim’s sole testimony is found
reliable and accordingly conviction can be based on the testimony of the

victim.

28. Since the prosecution has been able to establish that accused
committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim, the ingredients of
Section 4 of the POCSO Act stands established and hence the point for

determination is answered in negative.

29. | have heard the accused on the point of sentence. He prayed for
leniency. He submits that he comes from a poor family and that his
prolonged detention will put his family to immense hardship.

30. | have considered the plea of the accused. The fact however
remains that accused subjected the victim to immense mental trauma
by subjecting her to pentrative sexual assault. The act of the accused
cannot go unpunished without a severe punishment. Considering the act
of the accused | believe a sentence of ten years of rigorous
imprisonment with sentence of payment of fine of Rs 25,000 will meet
the ends of justice.

ORDER

Accused Gazi Rahman is convicted for the charge under Section 4
of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and
sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years with
fine of Rs 25,000 in default to undergo imprisonment for 6

months.
A free certified copy of the judgment be furnished to convict.

A recommendation is made to the District Legal Services Authority
for payment of adequate compensation to the victim under
Section 357A CrPC.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
11 eCourtIs copy

Mr. Apple Mahmud, Advocate shall be entitled to his remuneration
as Legal Aid Counsel.

A copy of this judgment be sent to the District Magistrate,
Kokrajhar

Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this 28 day of
February,2020.

Dictated by
Special Judge Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
12 eCourtIs copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-

Exhibit-1 Statement

Exhibit-2 Medical report

Exhibit-3 Charge sheet
2.Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1 victim's father
P.W.2 victim's mother
P.W.3 XXXxX victim
P.W.4 Dr. Sushma Brahma
P.W.5 Ms. Nurjahan Bibi
P.W.6 Md. Hajimuddin
P.W.7 Md. Nuruddin Sheikh
PW.8 Md. Eyad Ali
PW.9 Sri Akhay Narayan Dev
4.Defence Witness Nil
5. Court witness Nil

Special Judge
Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
