IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No.109 of 2018

(Arising out of Barpeta P.S. Case No.1103/2018
U/S 8 of PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL

OFFENCE ACT, 2012.

PRESENT : Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:- 24.04.2019

State of Assam
- Vs -
Sukham Krishna Das @ Sukham Das...... Accused.

Date of Recording Evidence on — 120.05.2019, 30.05.2019, 14.06.2019 &
01.07.2019
Date of Hearing Argument on — 20.09.2019

Date of Delivering the Judgment on - 04.10.2019

Appearance :
Advocate for the State------- Mrs. P. Das, Ld. Addl. P.P.

Advocate for the Accused-- Mr. Dharanidhar Talukdar, Ld Senior. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

FACTS OF THE CASE
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 22.05.2018 one Dhruba Deka lodged an
FIR in Barpeta police station alleging inter alia that his daughter (X) (real name withheld)
has been reading in Class-IV in Shankardev Sisu Niketan, Barpeta. It is stated that on
21.05.2018 his daughter went to school but at the time of returning from school at about
2:20 pm accused, who is a Science Teacher stopped the students who got less mark on
his Science subject and allowed other students to go except his daughter. Thereafter, he

allegedly
touched her breast with ill motive but out of fear she left home without disclosing it to
anyone. Returning home, she narrated her ordeal to her mother who then conveyed the
same to him. Accordingly, he made phone call to the Secretary of the school and
expressed surprise in the disgraceful conduct of accused that brings disrepute to the
institution. Hence, the FIR, for taking appropriate action against accused to prevent
recurrence of such incident in future.
INVESTIGATION
2. Following the information as above, Barpeta police station registered a case
being Barpeta PS Case No.1103/18 u/s 8 of POCSO Act and entrusted S/T Sanjit Kr. Roy
to investigate the case.
3. During the course of investigation, police visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statement of the witnesses u/s 161 Cr.P.C., sent the victim girl for medical
examination, forwarded the victim to court for recording her statement before Magistrate
u/s 164 CrP.C., drew sketch map. On conclusion of investigation, the I/O laid the charge
sheet against accused u/s 8 of POCSO Act with a view to stand trial.
APPEARANCE
4. During the course of time, the then Hon'ble Special Judge, Barpeta vide order
dated 04.12.2018 took cognizance of the offence u/s 8 of POCSO Act and issued process
against accused person. On his appearance in court, the case record was forwarded to
this court for disposal.
CHARGE
5. Having received the case record transfer and on careful perusal of the materials
available on record and hearing the learned counsels having found a primafacie case,
vide order dated 24.04.2019 framed charge u/s 8 of POCSO Act against accused Sukham
Krishna Das @ Sukham Das. The particulars of the offence on being read over and
explained accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. Before that the provision of
Section 207 Cr.P.C. has been duly complied with.
EVIDENCE
6. During the course of trial, prosecution examined as many as 8 witnesses
including the informant, the alleged victim girl, medical officer and the investigating
officer.
EXAMINATION OF ACCUSED U/S 313 Cr.P.C.

7. Concluding prosecution evidence, accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C
but accused denied the prosecution evidence as totally false, concocted and imaginary.
On being asked, accused however, expressed his intention to adduce defence evidence.
Accordingly, accused in order to substantiate his stand examined one witness namely-

Keshabananda Ojah as Defence Witness.

8. Now point for determination ;-

1. Whether on 21.05.2018 at about 2:20 pm accused with sexual intent
press/touches the breast of the victim girl (X) (real name withheld) in the
school for getting less mark in Science subject which involves physical
contact with the girl without penetration and thereby committed an offence
u/s 8 of POCSO Act as alleged ?

9. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision:-

I have heard the vociferous argument of the learned lawyers appearing for both
sides.
10. The learned counsel appearing for the State Smti. P. Das strongly contended that
in the present case, prosecution has been able to establish the case against accused for
sustaining conviction u/s 8 of POCSO Act. According to the learned Addl. P.P., in order to
substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 8 witnesses including the
informant, the alleged victim, the medical officer and the Investigating officer and all of
them have very categorically and consistently stated that on the day of incident the
accused subjected sexual torture on the victim girl by stopping her in the school alone, in
the pretext of getting less mark on his Science subject and by, allowing the other
students to leave the class, pressed the breast of the victim girl under her arms. This fact
has been narrated by the victim girl not only in her evidence in court but also in her
statement before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as well as in her statement before police u/s
161 Cr.P.C. The version of the victim girl has been fully corroborated by the evidence of
PW-1, PW-2 who is the father and mother of the victim girl and also by PW-3 who is the
independent witness and teacher of the school and also by medical evidence as the

doctor at the time of her examination found mild tenderness below her left breast.
4

11. The learned counsel appearing for the accused person however, vehemently
disputed the submission of the learned counsel appearing for the state. According to the
learned defence counsel, the prosecution case is entirely based on falsehood. The alleged
victim girl adduced exaggerated and concocted evidence in court as well as before the
police on being tutored by her parents.

12. PW-1 Dhruba Deka and PW-2 Dharitri Deka the father and mother of the victim
girl also adduced extremely exaggerated and concocted evidence only with a view to
punish the accused to satisfy their personal grudge nurtured by them against the accused
for punishing their daughter in school for getting less mark on his Science subject.
According to the learned counsel it is a fact that accused being a Science teacher has
been trying all along to improve the quality of students on his subject and award
punishment to those students who under perform on his subject. In that spirit the
accused gave little corporal punishment to all the students on his Science subject who
got less than 20 marks on his Science subject. In the present case, the alleged victim girl
got very less mark on his subject, so, accused gave punishment with a view to improve
her quality along with other students.

13. Being highly aggrieved father of the victim girl filed the present case with
concocted and imaginary allegations. According to learned defence counsel the fact that
the case was based on falsehood has been proved by the evidence of PW-3 Prabin Nath,
PW-5 Dola Devi and PW-6 Darathi Ojah. PW-5 Dola Devi and PW-6 Darathi Ojah being
the classmate of the alleged victim girl deposed that on the day of incident the teacher
punished all the students of their class who got less than 20 marks out of 25 on Science
subject one by one by beating with scale, advising the students to farewell in the next
exam, and, victim was the last to punish because she got less mark. Thereafter, school
bell ring and they left the school. Both PW-5 and PW-6 have been cross examined by
defence. PW-5 Dola Devi stated in her evidence that when they leave school victim told
them that her father works in court, so, she will sent the teacher to jail with the help of
her father for punishing her. PW-6 Darathi Ojah, in her cross examination deposed that
victim was punished by teacher but did not touch the body of any students including the
victim. The evidence of PW-4 and PW-5 have been supported by the evidence of PW-3
Prabin Nath who is one of the teacher of the said school. In his evidence PW-3 Prabin
Nath
categorically stated that on 21.05.2018 the father of the victim girl made a phone call to
him informing that the Science teacher touches the breast of his daughter in the school.
Then he advised him to visit the school on the next day and give written complaint.
Accordingly, on the next day morning parents of the victim girl had given a written
complaint and the managing committee took up the matter and, after deliberation
suspended the teacher from the school. Thereafter, the father of the victim girl also filed
a case.

14. In his cross examination he however, stated that after the suspension of the
teacher, students and guardians protested and then managing committee after inquiry
reinstated the accused in his service. He deposed that the suspension of the teacher was
made without making any independent inquiry. The learned defence counsel further
contended that to substantiate this fact accused also examined one witness namely-
Keshabananda Ojah, Secretary of the school as DW-1 who also categorically deposed that
immediately after making independent inquiry, on the demand of the guardian and
students, the suspension order of accused was withdrawn by a decision of the school
managing committee signed by the President which is exhibited as Ext.BB.

15. In his cross examination he stated that based on complaint of informant Dhruba
Deka accused was suspended on 22.05.2018 but the suspension was withdrawn
immediately on 23.05.2018 after independent investigation and inquiry. Therefore, the
learned defence counsel arduously contended that accused deserve to be acquitted from
the charge u/s 8 of POCSO Act. He has been a victim of vindictive attitude of the
informant. They used their minor daughter as a sward to punish an innocent person who
has been trying his level best to improve the quality of the students on his Science
subject by giving some corporal punishment to the students who gets less marks but
unable to bear the punishment awarded to their ward, the informant filed the present
case against accused on false and imaginary grounds which have, however, been
discredited by own prosecution witnesses. Therefore, the learned defence counsel
submitted that it is a fit case to record judgment of acquittal.

16. Having heard the arduous contention of the learned lawyers appearing for both
sides, this court carefully and dispassionately examined the evidence of all the

prosecution witnesses on record for arriving at a just decision in the case.

17. Before deliberating on the evidence it would be in the fitness of thing to refer to
section 8 of POCSO Act.
18. Section 8 punishment for sexual assault:- Whoever, commits sexual assault, shall be

punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less then 3 years
6

but which may extent to 5 years and shall also be liable to fine. The punishment u/s 8 has been
prescribed on the basis of acts defined in section 7 which reads as under:

19. Now, coming back to the facts of the present case and the evidence of the victim
girl shows that the prosecution case is entirely based on the evidence of the prosecutrix.
Therefore, the evidence of the victim and other prosecution witnesses has to be assessed
on the touch stone of its credibility. The evidence of the victim girl shows that accused is
taught Science in the school and he told all the students of the class that he will punish
those students who will get less than 20 marks out of total 25 marks. So, on the date of
alleged incident the teacher punished the students of his subject one by one who got less
than 20 marks out of 25 marks and the victim girl was the last to punish. According to
her, teacher had beaten her thrice with scale on her hand and thereafter, touches her
breast twice behind her back by putting his hand under her arm and then asked her to
give the phone number of her father so that he can talk to her father. Then he allowed
her to leave the class. In the evening after her return from tuition class, she disclosed the
fact to her mother who also told the same to her father. Then her father filed the case.
20, In her cross examination she stated that there were about 27 students in her
class namely Darathi, Tonmoy, Nayandeep, Rupangona, Ria etc. According to her, Darathi,
Tonmay, Nayandeep, Rupangona, Ria also got less mark so teacher got them stand up in
the class room and punished one by one and after the incident she came home along
with one lady teacher Juri who is her neighbour. Thereafter, she went to tuition which
starts from 4 pm to 7 pm and during this time she did not disclose the incident to anyone
but she did disclose the incident to her parents after her return from tuition.

21. Now, it is to be seen how far credible the evidence of the victim girl.

22. First she did not disclose the incident to the lady teacher with whom she came
back home after the school was over. On reaching home also she did not disclose the fact
to her mother. She then went to tuition from 4 pm to 7 pm and after that she disclose the

incident to her mother. She however, did
not disclose the incident to any of her girl friend whom she met in tuition class.
Prosecution examined two of her classmate Dola Devi as PW-5 and Darathi Ojah as PW-
6. PW-5 Dola Devi and PW-6 Darathi Ojah also deposed that on the day of alleged
incident the teacher punished students who got less than 20 marks on the Science
subject out of 25 marks and the victim girl was the last to punish and when school ball
ring they all leave the classroom. PW-5 Dola Devi in her cross examination stated that
when they leave the school the victim girl (X) told her that she will put the teacher in jail
as her father works in court. This particular expression of the victim girl expresses before
her colleague Dola Devi bears great significance. From the evidence of the victim girl
and two of her colleagues PW-4, PW-5 and PW-6 one thing is crystal clear that on the
day of incident the teacher punished the students of his class who got less than 20 marks
out of 25 marks in the Science subject. The evidence of PW-1 and PW-2 who are the
parents of the victim girl also stated in their evidence that on the day of incident the
teacher punished their daughter for getting less mark in his subject. But after the
punishment he pressed her breast twice with force as deposed by PW-1 the father.

23. On the other hand, the mother PW-2 deposed that on the day of incident at
about 8/9 pm she noticed that her daughter was weeping and on quarry made by her,
she told that she was feeling pain on her breast. On intense questioning and examination
she did not find any injury and her daughter also denied having suffered any injury but
told her that her teacher punished the students of her class that day for getting less
marks in his Science subject and thereafter, teacher pressed her breast twice while other
students left. Hearing this she felt nervous and shared the same with her husband and
after discussion filed the case. But mother of victim did not notice any abnormal conduct
of behaviour of her daughter at the first instance when she reached home from school.
This fact bears significance.

24. From the evidence of PW-1 and PW-2 the father and mother of the victim girl
respectively it appears that they have adduced exaggerated evidence regarding the
incident as the mother PW-2 clearly stated that on intense examination she found no
injury on any part of the body of her daughter and did not notice any abnormal conduct
of her daughter.

25. On the other hand, the doctor PW-7 who examined the victim on 23.05.2018

found mild tenderness below the left breast of the victim girl. In
her cross examination the doctor opined that there may be different reason for
tenderness. Therefore, there appears no consistency with the evidence of the mother of
the victim as well as the evidence of doctor PW-7. Had there been any truth in the
allegation the victim ought to have disclosed the fact of incident to any of her colleague
or lady teacher with whom she return home from school or to her mother but she did not
disclose anything about the incident to any one of them. This raises great suspicion about
the authenticity and truthfulness of the allegations made. This may be the result of
afterthought to take revenge against the teacher for punishing their daughter for getting
less mark in Science subject. For arguments sake, if it is assumed that out of cheer
shame, the girl did not disclose the fact of pressing her breast by the teacher to her
colleague or the lady teacher with whom she accompanied home after the school, but as
a natural conduct she ought to have disclose the incident at least to her mother
immediately after reaching home from school, but instead of disclosing the fact to her
mother immediately, she went to tuition. It is only after her return from tuition she did
not disclose the fact to her mother. But as deposed by PW-2 her mother, when she
noticed that her daughter (victim girl) has been sitting remorse she came to know that
teacher had beaten her for getting less mark and also told her that the teacher pressed
her breast. The fact of pressing the breast of her daughter by teacher appears to have
been exaggerated, concocted and afterthought in view of the fact that the victim girl did
not disclose the fact to any one till 8/9 pm even though the alleged incident stated to
have took place at about 2 to 2:20 pm in the school. Coming to know from the
punishment meted out to their daughter by teacher the parents might have felt angry
and plotted the incident to take revenge on the teacher. The circumstances in which the
alleged incident took place it is unlikely that teacher can do so in the classroom against
the alleged victim as none of her colleagues also said that except punishing the students
nothing was done by the teacher/accused. The fact that as deposed by PW-3 Prabin
Nath, Assistant Teacher of the school based on complaint lodged by parents of the victim
girl accused/teacher was suspended from school. But the evidence of DW-1
Keshabananda Ojah shows that the suspension order was issued in haste, without any
inquiry on the part of the school authority. According to DW-1 though the teacher was
suspended on 22.05.2018 based on the FIR of the informant, PW-1 but after independent
9

inquiry on the demand of the guardian and students, the suspension order of the
teacher/accused was withdrawn on 23.05.2018 immediately on the next day of the
incident. This fact clearly shows that the suspension of the accused was without
application of mind and without any inquiry. Had there been any truth in the allegation
made, the teachers and students would not have protested against the suspension of
accused from service but guardian and students supported the accused/teacher because
of his positive stand taken for improving the quality of students in his class. The teacher
giving corporal punishment to students to improve their quality and maintain discipline is
not unusual incident. Moreover, this courts also do not find any accusing finger against
the accused/teacher from any of the independent witnesses of the prosecution.

26. In the present case, the version of the victim girl has been supported only by her
parents but not any single independent witnesses. Therefore, giving exaggerated and
false evidence against the teacher to take revenge for punishing the victim girl in the
class for getting less mark on Science subject cannot be ruled out. The victim girl being
the minor the possibility of influencing her by her parents to adduce false evidence
against the teacher also cannot be ruled out. There are two strong possible views in the
present case. Therefore, this court, after assessing the entire prosecution evidence on
record comes to this unerring conclusions particularly keeping in view the fact that none
of the prosecution witnesses corroborated the version of PW-1, PW-2 and PW-4 namely
the parents and the victim girl.

27. In this context, it is to be noted that the teacher committing the offence of sexual
torture on his female student is also not an uncommon or unusual incident which is of
course, happening in the society and the teacher indulging such acts is certainly
reprehensible, despicable and punishable act under the law. But in the present case, on
dispassionate examination of the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, this court found
the evidence of the victim girl and her parents unworthy of credit for sustaining
conviction without any corroboration from independent witnesses.

28. The evidence of I/O in his cross examination belies the evidence of PW-2 in
court. The evidence of DW-1, also probabilises more of falsehood then of the alleged
incident. As such, after dispassionate examination of the entire prosecution evidence on

record, this court comes to unerring finding that it is
10

unsafe to hold the accused person guilty for the commission of offence u/s 8 of POCSO
Act.

29. In the result, this court has no option but to acquit accused Sukham Krishna Das @
Sukham Das from the alleged offences u/s 8 of POSCO Act, 2012 on the ground of benefit of doubt
and set him at liberty forthwith.

30. The terms of bail bond of accused person is extended for a period of 6 (six) months from
to-day as provided U/S 437(A) CrP.C.
31. Let a copy of the judgment be sent to the learned District Magistrate, Barpeta for his

information as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.
32. Let the case record be consigned to record room after completing the formalities.
33. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 4th day of October 2019, at Barpeta.

Dictated & corrected my me

Sd/- Sd/-
(Sri C. B. Gogoi) (Sri C. B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta.
11

APPENDIX

1. The prosecution has examined the following 8 nos. of witnesses :-

PW-1 =Dhruba Deka, the informant.
PW-2 =  Dharitri Deka.

PW-3 =  Prabin Nath.

PW-4 = victim (X).

PW-5 = Dola Devi.
PW-6 = Darathi Ojah.
PW-7 = Dr. Anima Boro, M/O.

PW-8 Sanjit Kumar Ray, I/O.

2. The prosecution has exhibited following document. :-

Ext.1 = is the FIR.

Ext.1(1) is the signature of informant.

Ext.2= is the statement recorded before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. of victim girl.
Ext.2(1)= is the signature of the victim girl.

Ext.3 = is the medical report.

Ext.3(1)- is the signature of doctor Anima Boro.

Ext.4= is the sketch map.

Ext.4(1)= is the signature of I/O Sanjit Kr. Ray.

Ext.5= is the charge sheet.

Ext.5(1)= is the signature of I/O Rufu Chetia.

Ext.A= is the application filed by Dhruba Deka.

Ext.A(1)= is the signature of Principal Acharjee of the school Prabin Chandra Nath.
Ext.AA= is the compared copy of the letter filed by Dhruba Deka.

Ext.B= is the said withdrawal of suspension order.

Ext.B(1)= is the signature of President Shankardev Sisu Niketon.

Ext.BB= is the compared copy of the original of Ext.B.

Sd/-

(Sri C. B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
