IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: CACHAR.

SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 39 of 2016
(U/S.4 OF POCSO Act)

Present:-Shri K. Choudhury, LL.M.,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM 0.0... ccceecccccceeea nese eeccessssesssneensasaasaaeeeeeeeess Complainant.
-Versus-

Sri Dilowar Hussain Barbhuiya
S/O Abdul Haque Barbhuiya,

Ranighat, P.S-Borkhola, District- Cachar.................08 Accused person.
Charge framed ON :n.......ccccccccccccceeeeseeeeeeeeeseteceeeeeeeeeetaeeeesssesetess 21/3/17
P.WS. CXAMINE ONtm... cece eeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeenes 5/5/17, 22/5/17, 29/5/17,

9/8/17, 20/9/17, 9/10/17
Statement of accused recorded U/S 313 CrP.C :...... 20/9/17, 9/10/17
Argument heard Onn ........ccccscsssccceeeeeeecesseesseeeeeeeessseseneseeeens 30.10.17.
Judgment pronounced and delivered ON!-.......:cccseceeeeeeeeeeeees 7.11.17

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Mr R.M. Das, Ld. PP

For the Accused : Mr. S. A. Barbhuiya. Advocate
JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 26/6/13 at about 7-

30a.m.the accused being co tenant as usual took the daughter of
the complainant aged about 5 years herein below referred as the
victim, on call to his house and the accused thereafter removing her
clothes committed penetrative sexual assault on her The
complainant in the mean time coming from shop found the victim
as crying and on query it could be learnt that the accused
committed rape on the victim. Bleeding was seen in the private part
of the victim and on raising alarm neighbouring people came and
apprehended the accused who was then handed over to police.
Accordingly FIR was lodged to Malugram TOP where the same was
entered vide GDE NO. 536 dtd.26/6/13 and the same was
forwarded to O/c Silchar PS for registration. In the mean time
Investigation was taken by SI Sanjay Bargohain. The FIR was
registered as Silchar PS case No. 1331/13 U/s 4 of the Protection Of
Children From Sexual Offences Act (POCSO ).

2. During investigation accused was arrested and one lungi
of the accused having one small blood stain like mark and few sperm
like spot was seized. Victim was medically examined. Her statement
was got recorded u/s 164 CrPC. The victim in her statement before
the Magistrate stated that she called the accused as Mama who at the
material time took her in his room telling her to give a chocolate and
thereafter he pressing her mouth removed her panty and thereafter he
penetrated something on her private part and she raised alarm and
accused left away. She had burning pain on her private part. The IO
on completion of investigation submitted charge sheet u/s 4 / 18 of

Protection Of Children From Sexual Offences Act.Learned C.J.M,
Cachar, after procuring attendance of the accused person forward the
case record to this court vide order dtd.13/12/16, Accused appeared
before this court on 21/12/16 and copies of relevant police papers
to him . This Court after hearing both sides and perusing materials on
the record framed formal charge against the accused person U/S. 4 /
18 of Protection Of Children From Sexual Offences Act. The charge
was read over and explained to which the accused person pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, trial began.

3. To prove the case prosecution examined as many as
eightwitnesses including MO and I/O. Four of them were declared
hostile by the prosecution and they were cross examined by the
prosecution side. Their previous statements were brought into the
recorded and confirmed by the IO. Defence plea is that seizure list
of panty was prepared collusively and no such incident took place
as alleged in the Ext.1, FIR. Further defence plea is that the injury
sustained by the victim caused by fall and no blood stain was found

in the under garment panty of the victim.

4. During examination U/S 313 CrP.C. accused took the
plea that the victim fell down from the staircase and he rescued her
and at that time father of the victim angry expressing that victim
was assaulted by the accused. He further stated that while he was
taking rice police came to his house and seized one lungi and there
was no blood stain and prior to the arrival of the police one person

Slapped him. He pleaded as innocence.
5. Now, point for determination is whether,under the facts
circumstances of the case,the accused attempted to commit any
penetrative sexual assault on the minor victim daughter of the

informant ?

6. To decide the above points I have heard learned

counsel of both sides and perused the evidence on record.

7. During hearing Ld. PP has submitted that although the
material witnesses turned hostile but prosecution has been able to
establish their case against the accused on the basis of
circumstantial evidence and court can rely the circumstantial
evidence as it does not speak lie. On the contrary Id. Defence
counsel submitted that as the material witnesses including the
victim have not supported the prosecution case the accused is

entitled to get acquittal.

8. It is an admitted fact at the material time both the
accused and the complainant were residing as co tenant in the
same homestead and there is no dispute about the time and place
of the alleged incident. According to the defence the victim

sustained injury by fall from staircase and he rescued the victim.

Let the evidence be discussed as follows:

9. PW .5 — Miss Orina Raha, the M.O. deposed that on
26/6/13 while she was working as GDMO Department of FSM
Department of SMCH examined the victim, a 5 years old female, in
connection with GDE NO.526 and as per the aunt of the alleged
victim the victim was called by the accused at around 5 a.m. and
accused committed intercourse removing panty of the victim and
the victim did not give any history on repeated asking. According to
the MO the panty was handed over to the escorting police and
vulva found reddened and oedematous and Hyman found intact.
The MO on the basis of physical including dental examination,
laboratory and radiological examination opined the age of the victim
as above five years and below seven years. It is also opined that
reddening of vulva as described in the report is suggestive of
attempted forceful sexual penetration. The MO in the cross
examination stated that in very rare case such type of injury might
be caused by fall from stair case. The report (Ext.3) was prepared
by her with consultation with Dr. Gunojit Das. She denied the
Suggestion that no stain was found in the undergarment panty of

the victim.

10. PW.1 — Eunis Ali Laskar, father of the victim deposed
that about four years back at one morning at about 6/6-30 a.m. she
heard alarm of the victim and then he and his wife came out and
saw the accused and the victim and after that he lodged the FIR
against the accused with allegation of torture against the victim by
the accused and after that police arrested the accused and victim

was got medically examined and victim also gave statement before
the Magistrate. Ext.1 is the FIR. Police seized the wearing panty of
the victim vide Ext.2. IO also seized one lungi of the accused vide
Ext.3. Ext.2(1) and 3(1) are her signature. At the material time
accused resided in the same compound as co tenant and the victim
was found crying. On query the victim could not say anything. At
this stage the witness was declared hostile by the prosecution. His
previous implicating statement has been brought by the prosecution

during cross examination by the prosecution.

11. PW. 2 — the mother of the victim deposed that at the
material time hearing cry of the victim she came out and on her
query the victim could not say anything and the police being
informed came and police interrogated them and before that her
husband arrived and they lodged FIR against the accused with
allegation of some bad things done by the accused to the victim.
Police apprehended the accused from his house. The neighbouring
people also came there. The victim sustained injury on her leg. The
victim was examined by doctor and also the victim gave statement
before the Magistrate. The witness was declared by the prosecution.
She denied her previous statement brought by the prosecution in
the cross examination. In the cross examination by the defence
she stated that police recorded her statement. In the cross by
defence she stated that he victim while playing fell down and

sustained injury and started crying.

12. PW.3, the victim, who was examined in camera,
deposed that seeing the photograph of the accused she could
identify him. At the time of her examination she disclosed her age
as 10 years and a student of class IV. According to her while she
was reading to Class-I the alleged incident took place. She did not
disclose anything against the accused. According to her when she
fell down on the ground the accused rescued her. She cried and the
accused took her to her house. She called the accused as Mara.
She was got medically examined. She could not remember
whatever stated before the Magistrate. She however proved her
Signature in her statement. She further deposed that she sustained

injury on her head.

13. PW.-4, the neighbor of both the accused and the
complainant deposed that on the date of occurrence at about 10/11
a.m. hearing hue and cry went near to the tea stall of the
complainant and found gathering of around 100/150 people. There
he heard that the victim fell down from staircase. He saw the victim
and noticed some blood on her panty. He also saw the accused. At
that time PW-4 was a president of their Ghaniwala Masjid. Police
came and took his signature in a paper. He could not say the
contents of the paper where he put signature. At this stage he was
declared hostile by the prosecution. He denied his implicating

statement as recorded by the IO.

14. PW. 6 deposed that at the material time he ran an

NGO at Ghaniwala and he knew the place of occurrence which was
a building in which both accused and the complainant used to
reside as a tenant in different room. The complainant had a tea
stall near the NGO and also near the PO. On the date of alleged
occurrence at about 11 a.m. while he was sitting in the NGO
suddenly heard hue and cry coming from the tea stall of the
complainant. He then along with others went to the PO. The
complainant showed him a lungi and a panty. In the lungi he found
spot of sperm and panty was found wet. He also found the accused
surrounded by local people. The accused was in a nervous condition.
The father of the victim told him (PW-6) that the accused
committed sexual assault with the victim. The victim was then sent
for medical examination. The victim was found crying with
nervousness. By this time police of Malugram TOP arrived there and
seized one panty vide Ext.2. At that time victim was around six

years. Ext.2(2) is his signature.

15. PW-7, IO of this case deposed that on 26.6.13 while he
was posted at Malugram TOP as SI of police received the FIR. He
made GD entry and forwarded the same to Silchar PS where it was
registered as Silchar PS case no.1331/13 U/s 4 of POCSO Act and
before that at 8/10 a.m. he received telephonic information from
one Taj Uddin to the effect that five years old daughter of Euinis
Laskar was sexually assaulted by co tenant and thereafter the
villagers apprehended him and kept confined. Accordingly he by
giving GDE no. 526 dtd 26/6/13 proceeded to the PO along with

Staff and there he found the accused as kept confined by the local
people. He then recorded the statement of the mother of the victim
and also visited the PO which was the bed room of the accused
from where he seized one lungi lying on the bed. The lungi was
found with stain of blood. He drew sketch map of the PO and also
recorded statement of local people and in the mean time father of
the victim handed over the under garment (panty) of the victim and
the same was seized. He also recorded the statement of the father
of the victim and arrested the accused from the PO. The victim was
sent to SMCH for medical examination and after that the case was
endorsed in his name for investigation. He collected the medical
report and also produced the victim before the Magistrate for
recording statement. He sent the seized lungi to FSL, Kahilipara
Guwahati for examination of blood stain found on the lungi. He
received requisition from FSL, Guwahati for sending blood sample
of the accused. FSL report disclosed that sample was not of good
quality. Thereafter IO submitted charge sheet. He confirmed the
statement of PW1, 2 and 4 as brought by the prosecution in the
cross examination. According to the IO PW-1 stated before him that
at the material time wife of PW-1 was found as crying and on query
she stated that the accused inducing the victim girl took to his room
and forcibly had sexual relation with the victim and as a result the
victim sustained injury on private part wherefrom blood was oozing
out and instantly hearing hue and cry villagers gathered and the
matter was informed to them and the villagers assaulted the
accused and cut his hair. Further according to the IO PW-2 stated

before him that the victim went out at about 7 a.m. and after some
-10-

time returned home crying and on query the victim reported that
she was feeling pain on her abdomen and it was noticed that some
liquid was coming out from the undergarments of the victim and on
further query the victim told that the accused made her lying
released some liquid on her. PW-2 also stated before the IO that
she noticed some blood stain and suspected that accused
committed sexual intercourse on the victim and on her raising hue
and cry neighbouring people came along with her husband and

assaulted the accused and handed over him to the police.

16. PW-4 stated before the IO that on 26/6/13 at about 7-
30 a.m. hearing hue and cry he visited the PO and from the local
people came to know that the victim was taken away by the
accused and had sexual intercourse and as a result blood came out
from her private part and accused was assaulted by the public prior
to the arrival of the police and police seized one lungi of the

accused and in the lungi there was blood stain and stain of semen.

17. In the cross examination the IO denied the suggestion that
the seized lungi was not of the accused. One omission is proved to
the effect that PW-6 did not exactly state before the IO that the
complainant told him that the accused committed sexual assault on

the victim and victim was found in a nervous condition.

18. Ld. Defence counsel referring the cross of PW-1 and 2

submitted that they admitted about their some strain relation and
-11-

miss-understanding with the accused relating to monetary

transaction and for that this case was filed.

19. PW-2 in her cross examination stated that police
recorded her statement and the victim while playing fell down and
sustain injury and started crying. In the examination in chief she

stated that the victim sustained injury on the leg.

20. PW-3 the victim in her evidence stated that she
sustained injury on her head. The same are found to be not only
contradictory with other witlessness but also with the medical
report. Therefore their evidence in this regard under the facts and
circumstances of this case is very difficult to be believed. Although
the PW-1 and 2 were declared hostile by the prosecution but their
entire evidence cannot be disbelieved so far as the same is
corroborated by other witnesses including medical evidence. There
is no denial about the evidence that at the material time victim was
found crying. PW-1 did not say anything in his examination in chief
about the cause of crying. No reason also could be brought in his
cross examination by the defence as to why police seized the
wearing panty of the victim. He also deposed that one lungi of the
accused was seized vide Ext.3. No reason could be brought by the
defence as to why the lungi of the accused was required to be
seized by the police. This indicates that whatever allegation brought
in the FIR the Ext.1 has got a base. According to PW-3 the victim

she forgot what she stated before the Magistrate. It may be true on
-12-

the ground that she adduced evidence about four years after the
alleged incident. According to her she fell down on the ground and
the accused rescued her. If that be so the question comes as to
why a false allegation has been brought against him and as to why
many people were gathered and accused was slapped. The accused
admitted in his statement defence that he was slapped. The
contradictory statement of the PW-1 and 2 as proved by the IO
regarding assault by the public is partially admitted by the accused
in his 313 CrP.C. statement. Therefore, the contradiction as proved
by the prosecution cannot be overlooked. PW-6 appears to be an
independent witness. According to him he saw a spot of sperm in
the lungi and panty of the victim was found wet and the accused
was found surrounded by local people. In the cross examination it
has come out that more than 100 people gathered at the PO. The
same is also corroborated by the evidence of PW-4 who deposed to
have found gathering of around 100/ 150 people at the PO. Had the
accused really rescued the victim he would not have been
surrounded by the local people of such huge number. He is one of
the seizure witnesses. He denied the suggestion that the seizure list
was prepared collusively, but no reason could be brought out as to
why he would give false evidence. His evidence is corroborated by
the PW-7 the IO. According to the IO blood stain was found in the
lungi. It appears that the IO took all the necessary steps for DNA
test of blood sample for comparison with the blood spot found in
the lungi but his attempt failed as blood was not of good quality for

the test. The evidence of the IO is also found to be corroborated by
-13-

the evidence of the MO, the PW-5 who denied the suggestion that
no blood stain was found in the undergarment panty of the victim.
PW-4 though declared hostile but he deposed that he saw the
victim and noticed some blood on her panty. Therefore it clearly
evident that victim sustained injury on her private part. Now
question comes how she sustained such injury. The MO opined that
reddening of vulva as described is suggestive of attempted forceful
sexual penetration. In the cross examination the MO categorically
stated that in a very rare case such type of injury might be caused
by fall from staircase. It appears that nobody saw the victim to fall
down. Even the mother of the victim did not disclose how the victim
sustained injury on her leg. She however stated that FIR was
lodged against the accused with the allegation of some bad things
done by the accused. The evidence of PW-4 about noticing of some
blood on the panty of the victim is not categorically denied by the
defence in the cross examination. That being so this piece of
evidence remained unrebutted and corroborative with the evidence
of MO and PW-6. Had it been case of fall from stair case the IO
would not have seized the lungi from the bed room of the accused.
Although the victim deposed to have forgot about the contents of
the statement made before the Magistrate but she proved her
signature in her statement the Ext.4 recorded by the then Judicial
Magistrate 1* class Pranab Sharma whose signature and relevant
order sheet has been proved by his the then Bench Assistant PW-8.
The main contents of the Ext.4 is that the accused taking the victim

inside his room entered something in the way of her urine and for
-14-

that she raised alarm and she experienced burning sensation at
the time of urinating. The contents of the Ext.4 though not
Supported by any material witnesses including the victim but the
contents tends to suggest that the MO rightly opined that
reddening of vulva is suggestive of attempted forceful sexual
penetration. It cannot be expected that where parents of any victim
of tendered age turn hostile the victim would dare to disclose about
the actual happening coming from their custody and that too, about
four years after the alleged incident. It may be contended that
where the victim and her parents do not directly implicate the
accused in such nature of cases how can court arrive at any
decision against any accused of such nature of case. It is true that

man may conceal some real facts but circumstances cannot tell lie.

21. In the instant case evidence of doctor supported by
others complete the chain of circumstances such as :
(1) Crying of the victim,
(2) Raising hue and cry,
(3) Gathering of more than 100 people,
(4) Finding of accused,
(5) Surrounding of the accused by the local people and
Slapping the accused,
(6) Giving of telephonic information to the police and their
instant visit to the PO by giving GD entry about sexual
assault and handing over of the accused to the police by

public,
-15-

(7) Seeing of blood stain on the panty (under garment) of
the victim,

(8) Seizure of lungi of the accused from his bed room,

(9) Finding of blood spot and semen like spot in the lungi,

(10) Lodging of FIR against the accused with the allegation of
penetrative sexual assault,

(11) Instant sending of the victim for medical examination but
not for treatment and also no treatment was advises etc.
are indicatives of the involvement of the accused with the

alleged offence as disclosed in the FIR.

No reason is found to disbelieve the evidence of MO-
the PW-5, PW-6 and PW-7-IO being partially corroborated by PW-4
and other witnesses.

I
22. In view of the above discussion of evidence on the
record and consideration of evidence in its entirety, it is held that
the prosecution case is proved beyond all reasonable doubt U/S 18
r/w section 4 of POCSO Act. Therefore, accused person is held to

be guilty and convicted accordingly.
23. Heard the accused on the question of sentence .He has
stated that he is only an aged widow mother and there is none

except him to look after and maintain his aged mother.

24. Having due regard to the above and all other aspects
-16-

this court is of the view that sentence of fine will meet the ends of
justice and accordingly accused is convicted and sentenced to pay
a fine of Rs.5,000/- ( rupees five thousand) i/d to undergo R.I. for 2

(two) months.

25. Seized materials be destroyed in due course as per law.

26. Bail bond remain in force till period of appeal. The copy
of the judgment be furnished to the accused at free of cost as per
provision of Section 363 Cr.P.C. and a copy of this judgment also be

forwarded to the D.M. Cachar as per provision of section 365 Cr.P.C.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court
under my signature and seal of this court on this 7" Day of November,
2017.

Dictated and corrected by

(K. Choudhury)
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee,
Stenographer
-17-

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR.
Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 39 of 2016.

APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

PW. 1 — Eunis Ali Laskar
PW. 2 — Mustt. Forida Begum.
PW. 3 — Khadedja Begum Laskar
P.W. 4 — Muzafar Ali Laskar.
PW. 5 — Dr. Miss Orina Raha
P.W. 6 — Masoom Ahmed Laskar
P.W. 7 — Sanjay Bargahain

.8

— Moloy Das
(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: -_ NIL

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — FIR

Ext. 1(1) — Signature of PW-1

Ext. 1(2) — Signature of PW-7

Ext. 1(3) — Signature of the then OC Silchar
Ext. 1(4) — Signature of the then OC Silchar
Ext. 2 — Seizure list

Ext. 2(1) — Signature of PW-1

Ext. 2(2) — Signature of PW-6

Ext. 2(3) — Signature of PW-7

Ext. 3 — Seizure List

Ext. 3(1) — Signature of PW-1

Ext. 3(2) — Signature of PW-4

Ext. 3(3) — Signature of PW-7

Ext. 4 — Statement of victim

Ext. 4(1) — Signature of PW-3.

Ext. 4(2) — Signature of PW-3
-18-

Ext. 4(3),(4) — Signatures of Pranab Sharma, JMFC

Ext. 5 — Medical report

Ext. 5(1) — Signature of PW-5

Ext. 5(2) — Signature of PW-5

Ext. 5(3) — Signature of Gunogit Das

Ext. 5(4) — Signature of the guardian of the victim
Ext. 5(5) — Story narrated by the victim's aunt
Ext. 6 — Police requisition.

Ext. 6(1) — Signature of PW-5.

Ext. 6(2) — Signature of PW-7

Ext. 7 — Charge sheet.

Ext. 7(1) — Signature of PW-7

Ext. 8 — Relevant order sheet.

Ext. 8(1) — Signatures of Pranab Sharma, JMFC

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - —-NIL

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

(Shri K. Choudhury),

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
