IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 32 OF 2018
(G.R. Case No. 27 of 2018)
Garamur P.S. Case No. 11 of 2018

Committing Magistrate:-

Sri L.N. Pegu,
Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate,
Majuli District

State of Assam

-Versus-

Sri Hemen Das @ Titou,

Son of Sri Putu Das,

Resident of Borguli No-1 Morang Gaon,

P.S. Titabar,

District-Jorhat. ... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri Bhumidhar Hazarika,
Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 366 [A] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM

SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 24-04-2018
Date of prosecution evidence : 17-05-2018; 05-06-2018 & 12-11-2018
Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 07-01-2019
Date of Argument : 11-01-2019
Date of Judgment : 11-01-2019

SPECIAL CASE NO. 32 OF 2018
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Garamur P.S. Case No.
11/2018 under Section 366-A of IPC was registered on the basis of F.I.R.
lodged by Sri Thageswar Hazarika, father of the victim girl [hereinafter referred
to as ‘X’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 09/03/2018 [Exhibit-2], the
informant Sri Thageswar Hazarika [PW-3] who is the father of the victim girl
alleged, /nter-alia, that on 08/03/2018 while his minor daughter came out of the
house towards the school to attend her H.S. Examination. After completing her
examination while his minor daughter was about to return back home at about
12.30 P.M., the accused induced his minor daughter and thereafter kidnapped
her in his motorcycle and took her to his house. Later on, the informant came to
know that the accused had kept his minor daughter as his wife in his residence.

On receipt of the ejahar by the then Officer-in-charge, Garamur
P.S., the same was registered as Garamur P.S. Case No. 11/2018 under Section
366-A of IPC.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was recovered
from the possession of accused. Her statement was recorded by the I.O. of the
case. The victim girl was medically examined by the doctor as well as her
statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was also recorded by the learned
Magistrate. Police on completion of investigation filed charge-sheet in the case
against the above named accused Sri Hemen Das @ Titou u/S. 366 of IPC vide
Charge-sheet No. 06/2018 dated 29-03-2018.

2). The learned Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Majuli, after furnishing
copies of the relevant documents to the accused u/S. 207 of Cr.P.C., committed

the case to this Court for trial.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the
prosecution in this behalf and on finding grounds for presuming that the accused
has committed offences under Section 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The

Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, the charges were framed,

SPECIAL CASE NO. 32 OF 2018
read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded not guilty

and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, O06 [six] numbers of witnesses including
the victim, her father-cum-informant together with the Medical Officer as well as
investigating officer were examined on behalf of the prosecution to prove the
charge against accused.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that he did not
kidnap the victim girl; that the victim girl had love affairs with him and she, on
her own volition, eloped with him. It is further version of the accused that he has
been falsely implicated in the case. He further stated that at present the victim is
staying in the house of her father. The accused pleaded innocence. No witness

was adduced by the accused in his defence.

5). I have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor for
the State as well as Sri Bhumidhar Hazarika, learned Counsel for the accused
who is facing trial for commission of offence u/S. 366 [A] of IPC read with
Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on or about 08/03/2018, the accused, induced the
minor victim to leave her parent house or to do any act with
intent that she will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse
against her will and consent and thereby committed an offence
punishable under Section 366 [A] of IPC?

2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused named above
committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl and
thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

SPECIAL CASE NO. 32 OF 2018
DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

7). First of all, let us see the definition of relevant provisions of law to the
charged sections against accused. The sections reads as follows:

Section-366 [A]—Procuration of minor girl — Whoever, by any means
whatsoever, induces any minor girl under the age of eighteen years to
go from any place or to do any act with intent that such girl may be, or
knowing that it is likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse with another person shall be punishable with imprisonment

which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Section-4 — Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to

imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

8). To decide the above points and sections of law against accused in
this case, let us examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses
alongwith the documents.

The victim [PW-1] divulged during her testimony that prior to
the date of incident she got acquaintance with the accused as the later
constructed a pandal near her house. In the month of February/March, her family
members came to know about her relationship and did not allow her to contact
the accused over phone. It is stated by the victim that one day while she was
having conversation with the accused over mobile phone her elder sister
witnessed her and thereafter she was restrained and abused not to do so in near
future. On 05/03/2018, she sent message to the accused for taking her. Further
version of the victim is that on 08/03/2018, when her examination was over, on
that day, she met the accused behind her school and the later took her in his
motorcycle towards his house. She accompanied the accused towards Mariani
where both of them stayed for about two days as husband and wife. She came

to know from her elder sister on the next day that her father had not lodged any

SPECIAL CASE NO. 32 OF 2018
case against you. Later on, she came to know that a case has been registered
against the accused. Further version of the victim is that on the next day both of
them surrendered before police at Mariani P.S. She was produced before the
Magistrate who recorded statement vide Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-1 [1] to
Exhibit-1 [3] are her signatures. It is further version of the victim that she was
produced before a doctor by police for medico-legal examination.

During cross-examination, she admitted that she called the accused to
take her with him after her examination was over and that accused did not force

her to accompany him and she voluntarily went with the accused.

9). PW-2 is Smt. Junu Hazarika who is the mother of victim girl. It is
stated by this witness that on the relevant day her minor daughter [PW-1] went
to appear for her examination but she did not return back home. She came to
know from one girl that the accused took the victim. Thereafter, she searched for
the victim but she was found untraceable. Her husband lodged ejahar before
police. Police recovered her victim daughter after five days of incident.

This witness denied in her cross-examination by defence side that
she did not state before police that one girl called her elder daughter and
informed her that victim had gone with the accused. It is admitted by this
witness that the date of birth of victim is 12/02/2003.

10). Sri Thogeswar Hazarika [PW-3] is father of victim-cum-
informant of the case. This witness during his deposition deposed in the same
tune as that of his ejahar. He exhibited his ejahar vide Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-
2 [1] is his signature. Police recovered his daughter after five days of lodging of
the ejahar by him. His minor daughter was recovered from the possession of
accused. It is further version of this witness that when he asked about the
incident to his minor daughter, to his query, his daughter divulged that she
voluntarily went with the accused.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side denied to
have stated before police that one girl from their village told them that accused

took the victim alongwith him.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 32 OF 2018
11). Evidence of Smt. Gayatri Senapati [PW-4] who is the Medical
Officer of the instant case is to the effect that on 13/03/2018 she was posted as
Deputy Superintendent of Kamalabari CSC. On that day as per police requisition
she examined the victim [PW-1] and opined that victim was aged 18-19 years at
the time of examination. She exhibited her report vide Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-
3 [1] is her relevant signature.

Defence side did not cross-examine this witness.

12). The evidence of Smt. Shapna Hazarika [PW-5] who is the
elder sister of victim [PW-1] is to the effect that on the date of incident her
younger sister went towards school for her HSLC examination but she did not
return back home. She then telephoned the friend of victim who disclosed before
her that she witnessed the victim in the school but she did not return back with
them. After sometime another friend of victim telephoned this witness and
disclosed that she witnessed the victim going alongwith the accused but she
could not tell the details. Then she informed the matter to her parent. Her father
lodged ejahar before police regarding the incident.

This witness was cross-examined by defence side and during
cross-examination she denied to have stated before police that one of the friend
of her sister told her over telephone that the victim went with a boy from Jorhat.
This witness admitted that after recovery the victim [PW-1] divulged before her

that she voluntarily accompanied the accused on the date of incident.

13). Sri Nilutpal Doley [PW-6] who is the investigating officer of the
instant case depose about the routine steps taken by him during investigation of
the case. On completion of investigation he submitted charge-sheet against the

accused vide Exhibit-4 wherein Exhibit-4 [1] is his signature.

14). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that the
victim knew the accused from before as she had love affair with him.
Furthermore, on the date of incident the victim [PW-1] on her own accompanied

the accused to different places and resided with him as husband and wife.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 32 OF 2018
15). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. stated
that victim came to him voluntarily and at present she is staying at her parental
home.

16). It is seen that medico legal report of the victim is found available

with the record. On close scrutiny of the medico legal report of the victim
conducted by the doctor [PW-4], the doctor has opined the age of victim to be

above eighteen years and below twenty years at the time of incident.

17). The parent of victim namely Smt. Junu Hazarika [PW-2] and Sri
Thogeswar Hazarika [PW-3] alongwith the elder sister namely Smt. Shapna
Hazarika [PW-5] during their cross-examination categorically stated that when
they asked the victim about the incident, to their query, the victim divulged
before them that on the date of incident she voluntarily accompanied the
accused. The accused during his statement under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. also

revealed the same fact.

18). On appreciation of the evidence on record as well as other facts
and circumstances of the case, it is found that there is no any allegation of
forceful abduction of the victim girl by the accused. The parent of the victim
[PW-2 & PW-3] alongwith the elder sister [PW-6] divulged that on the date of
incident their daughter as well as younger sister went on missing from the way
back home from school. Later on, all of them came to know that the accused had
taken away the victim to his house where both of them are staying as husband
and wife.

Similarly, the victim girl has narrated the fact during examination
that as on the relevant day she accompanied the accused to his house from the
road after the accused met her. Victim categorically deposed in her evidence
under Section 164 Cr.P.C. that she stayed with accused in his house as wife and
husband for about 02 days. She did not specifically depose that accused induced

her to leave the house of her parent.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 32 OF 2018
19). On scrutinizing the evidence on record it is seen that no case has
been made out against accused Sri Hemen Das @ Titou to warrant his conviction
under Section 366 [A] IPC as well as under Section 4 of The Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, as victim stated nothing in her
evidence. There is no medical evidence to prove that the victim was minor at the
time of incident. Be that as it may, it will be fatal if the accused is convicted in
the instant case as the victim [PW-1] alongwith her parent [PW-2 & PW-3] and
her elder sister [PW-6] have categorically stated on the date of incident the
victim voluntarily accompanied the accused.

Prosecution has not been able to make out a case against the accused
Sri Hemen Das @ Titou under the aforesaid sections of law beyond reasonable
doubt, for which, I am of the opinion that the accused is entitled to acquittal
under benefit of doubt which I accordingly do.

Accused is on bail. The bail bond of accused is extended for another

06 [six] months from today as per provision of Section 437-A Cr.P.C.

20). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 11th day of
January 2019.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-9

SPECIAL CASE NO. 32 OF 2018
 

 

 

 

ANNEXURES:-

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW-1 Victim girl.
PW-2 Smt. Junu Hazarika, mother of victim of the case.
PW-3 Sri Thogeswar Hazarika, father of victim-cum-

informant of the case.
PW-4 Dr. Gayatri Senapati who examined the victim.
PW-5 Smt. Shapna Hazarika, elder sister of victim.
PW-6 Sri Nilutpal Doley, I.0. of the case.
COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Statement of the victim recorded by the Magistrate
under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-2 F.I.R.

Exhibit-3 Medico-legal report of victim

Exhibit-4 Charge-sheet

 

 

MATERIAL EXHIBIT NO-1:- Photocopy of birth certificate of victim

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 32 OF 2018
SPECIAL CASE NO. 32 OF 2018

10

10
