Page 1 of 6

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 29/15

Informant: Sri Hiteswar Baruah,
S/o- Sri Jogeswar Baruah,
R/o- Dihajan Gaon,
PS- Moran,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Pranta Jyoti Dutta,
S/o- Sri Biren Dutta,
R/o- Joyapara,
PS- Sivasagar,
District- Sivasagar.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri S Singhinia, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 6

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 29/15
G.R. Case No. 1014/15

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Pranta Jyoti Dutta

Charge u/S 8 PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 10-06-15, 02-07-15 & 18-08-15.
Date of argument > 23-11-15.
Date of Judgment — : 23-11-15.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that on the night of 17-04-15, the accused person
entered into the house of the informant and sexually assaulted the daughter
of the informant aged about seven years. On 17-04-15, Moran Police Station
received an information that the accused had tried to commit rape on a minor
girl and the local people caught him and when they were assaulting the
accused, police arrived and recovered him. Accordingly, General Diary Entry
was made and subsequently, the informant lodged the ejahar and Moran PS
Case No. 126/15 was registered and investigation commenced. In course of
such investigation, the Investigating Officer visited the place of occurrence,
drew up Sketch-Map, sent the victim for medical examination and for
recording her statement before the Magistrate. On completion of
investigation, he submitted Charge-Sheet.
Upon committal, my learned predecessor framed charge under Section 8 of
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (hereinafter PCSO Act)
against the accused person and the charge was read over and explained to
the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined six witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Mr. Singinia, learned
Page 3 of 6

counsel for the defence.
POINT FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the accused person committed sexual assault upon the
alleged victim?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

5) In this case, the age of the victim is stated to be seven years which is not
disputed. The victim who was examined as PW-1, deposed that on the day of
occurrence, her mother and father went out of the house to watch Bihu
function held near the house at night. On the said night, she along with her
elder brother was sleeping inside the house on a bed. The accused was also
Sleeping outside their room on a bed. When the accused came inside the
room, she woke up. Coming into the room, the accused locked the door from
inside. PW-1 further stated that thereafter, the accused wanted to sleep on
her bed. Then she told the accused that she also wanted to see the Bihu
function, but the accused did not allow her to go there. Then she started to
cry. At that moment, her mother came back to their house and hearing her
cry, she tried to open the door, but as it was closed from inside, so she gave
a kick on the door and opened the same and thereafter, the accused fled
from the place with a bicycle. She further stated that the accused touched
her susu (vagina), but did not touch any part of her body and she felt pain
for which she cried. In her statement before the Magistrate recorded under
Section 164 CrPC, the victim deposed as follows:

"On the said night, I was sleeping with my elder brother inside the
room. My mother went to enjoy Bihu festival. The accused being my uncle
was drinking liquor so my parents put him to sleep in the outside bed.
The accused person, /.e., uncle lifted me from bed and sat me down near
the backside door. He laid me down. I cried and then my mother arrived.
My mother gave a kick on the door and entered into the room. Then the
accused fled from the place. My uncle touched my private part and
pinched my leg. My mother gave two slap to the accused and then he fled
from the place.”

The version of the victim before the Magistrate appears to be corroborative of
her evidence before the Court in some respects. However, during cross-

examination, she stated that the accused person stopped her going to see
6)

7)

8)

Page 4 of 6

Bihu function as it was late night and when she started crying, her mother
arrived and finding the door closed from inside, she kicked the door and
opened the same whereafter the accused left. The accused did not threaten
her and touched her body only to restrain her from going to the Bihu
function. The accused did not use any force with her Therefore, the
deposition of the alleged victim in her cross-examination neutralized her
version given in examination-in-chief.

PW-2 Sri Hiteswar Baruah, the informant deposed that he came to know from
his wife that the accused tried to commit something bad with his daughter
when he arrived at the house, the accused was going towards his house and
then he caught hold of the accused and took him to their house. Some of his
friends arrived and assaulted him. During cross-examination, he stated the
accused did not try to flee and before lodging the ejahar, he did not ask
anything to his daughter. Later on, when he asked his daughter, she told him
that while she was crying and asking to go to watch Bihu function, the
accused restrained her as it was late night and at that time, her mother
arrived and entered the room by kicking open the door. His daughter did not
state anything more.

PW-3 Smti. Bornali Baruah, mother of the alleged victim deposed that on the
day of occurrence, her victim daughter and her son Sri Kalyan Baruah were
Sleeping in their house. The accused was also sleeping in the same house.
PW-3 as well as her husband went nearby to watch Bihu function. Hearing
that her daughter was crying, she rushed to her house and entered into her
house by pushing the door. While she was asking her daughter as to what
had happened, the accused left her house. The nearby people who were
watching Bihu function gathered at their house and caught hold of the
accused person. During cross-examination, she stated that her daughter told
her that the accused did not allow her to go to see Bihu function as it was
late night and that due to misunderstanding, the ejahar was lodged at the
instance of the people who gathered there. She further stated that no such
incident as alleged in the ejahar took place. There are no other material
witnesses in the case.

From the evidence discussed above, it is clear that the prosecution case
regarding the commission of sexual assault, cannot said to be established

and the point is answered accordingly.
Page 5 of 6

9) In the result, I hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its case
beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused person is acquitted
of the offence under Section 8 PCSO Act and he be set at liberty forthwith.

10) The bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6 (six) months
under Section 437-A CrPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 23 day of

December, 2015.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 6 of 6

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
(1) PW-1 The victim;
(2) PW-2 Sri Hiteswar Baruah;
(3) PW-3 Smti. Bornali Baruah;
(4) PW-4 Smti. Nibedita Gogoi;
(5) PW-5 Sri Hemanta Raj Khonikar; and
(6) PW-6 SI Pratap Borgohain.
List of Exhibits:
(1) Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
(2) Ext. 2 Ejahar;
(3) Ext. 3 Sketch-Map;
(4) Ext. 4 Medical Report; and
(5) Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
