SPL. POCSO 16/16
16.03.2017

Accused is present. Victim and her parents are present as
P.Ws. They are examined. Two of them are only cross
examined by the defence side. The victim is examined in
camera. Considering the nature of the evidence that come
out from the mouth of the victim complainant and other
witness, the learned P.P has submitted for closure of the
prosecution evidence mainly on the’ ground that
examination of any other witness would not improve the
case any more. | find substance in the submission. Hence,
prosecution evidence is proved. | would like to dispose of
this case U/S 232 Cr.P.C. Accused is examined. Heard
argument of both sides.

In the instant case charges have been framed U/S 4 of
POCSO Act. & 313 IPC on the accusation that in the month
of March 2013 at one night the accused committed
penetrative sexual assault on the minor daughter of the
complainant and as a result she became _ pregnant.
Subsequently, her pregnancy was terminated on 4.7.13 in
one Hospital at the instance of the accused without her
consent. The charges were read over and explained when
explained the accused pleaded not guilty.

PW1 is the complainant the father of the victim.
according to his evidence, the accused wanted to marry the
victim but his guardian was opposing the same. He then
lodged FIR the Ex-1 to compel the guardian to accept his
daughter. He further deposed that ejhar was written English
and he can only put signature in Bengali. At the material
time the victim was around 18 years of age and she did not
disclose anything to him against the accused. The PW2 is
the mother of the victim and according to her evidence
there had some misunderstanding relating to love affairs of
the victim with the accused and the victim did not report
anything against the accused and the victim was aged
around 18 years of age. PW3 is the victim who has deposed
that the accused wanted to marry her but guardian of the
accused opposed the same. Thereafter villagers advised
them to lodge criminal case against the accused to compel
the accused and his family members to accept her as wife of
the accused. She has further deposed that she had no
physical relation with the accused and she being tutored by
others gave statement before the Magistrate against the
accused. at the material time she was more than 18 years of
age and she has no grievances against the accused.

The above being the nature of evidence come out
from the mouth of the material witnesses, | do not hesitate
to hold that the prosecution case is not proved for want of
any implicating evidence. Accused is thus, held to be not
guilty of the offences as charged or whatsoever. He is thus
acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.

This order of acquittal is pronounced and
delivered in the open Court on this 16" Day of March, 2017.
