IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 43/2018
U/S 366(A)/34 IPC & Section 4 of POCSO Act

PRESENT : Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi, AJS,
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:-12.03.2019

State of Assam
- Vs -
Babul Ali @ Ahamed
Jafar Khan @ Badal.......... Accused

Date of Recording Evidence on — 19.06.2019, 20.06.2019 & 30.10.2019
Date of Hearing Argument on —- 30.10.2019
Date of Delivering the Judgment on—- 30.10.2019.

Appearance :
Advocate for the State------------------ Mrs. P. Das, Ld. Addl. P.P.
Advocate for the Accused-------------- Dharani Talukdar, Ld. Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The brief fact, of the prosecution case, is that on 20.01.2017 one _ Billat Hussain

lodged an FIR in Kalgachia P.S. alleging inter alia that on 16.01.2017 at about 8:45 am his

daughter namely (X & Y real name withheld) went to school but did not returned home.

Informant cause a drastic search for them, but could not traced them out. Hence the case

for taking action in accordance with law.

2. Based on the information a case being Kalgachia PS case no 54/17 PS. u/s

366(A) IPC was registered and S.I. Tarun Chandra Boro was entrusted to investigate the

case. Subsequently, section 4 of POCSO Act was added.
2

3. During the course of investigation, police visited the place of occurrence, recorded
the statement of the witnesses including the victim girl u/s 161 Cr.P.C., drew sketch map,
sent the victim girl for medical examination, forwarded her to court for recording her
statement before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and also seized the registration card of Dilwara

Khatun of the Board of Secondary Education, Assam.

4. On conclusion of investigation, I/O finally laid the charge sheet against accused u/s
366(A) IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act.

5. During the course of time, when accused appeared in court. Then on compliance of
section 207 Cr.P.C. charges u/s 366(A)/34 IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act were framed
after hearing both sides. The particulars of the offences on being read over and explained,

accused persons pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

6. During the course of trial, the prosecution examined as many as 3 witnesses
including the informant, alleged victim and medical officer namely- Dr. Mamata Devi as PW-
1,  Bilat Hussain as PW-2 and the victim girl (X) as PW-3 respectively. However,
considering the nature and quality of evidence adduced by the star witnesses giving an

opportunity of hearing to learned Addl. P.P. further prosecution evidence stands closed.

7. Examination of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C. is also dispensed with in view of lack of
implicating materials. The defence plea is total denial of the prosecution case. As such, on

being asked accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

8. Now point for determination ;-

Whether on 16.01.2017 accused Babul Ali and Jafar Khan in furtherance of their common
intention induced the victim girl to go from school to other place/places knowing it to be
likely that she will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with another person including
accused as alleged ?

Whether on the same day and time accused Babul Ali and Jafar Khan committed

penetrating sexual assault on the victim girl as alleged ?

9. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-
I have heard the learned lawyers appearing for both sides and also carefully

scanned the entire prosecution evidence on record.
10. Before going to discuss the evidence on record it would be useful to refer section
366-A IPC.

“Section 366-A IPC: procreation of minor girl:’-Whoever, by any means
whatsoever, induces any minor girl under the age of 18 years to go from any place or to do
any act with intent that such girl may be, or knowing that it is likely that she will be,
forced, or seduced to illicit intercourse with another person shall be punishable with

imprisonment which may extent to 10 years, and shall also be liable to fine.”

“3. Penetrative sexual assault. - A person is said to commit “penetrative sexual
assault” if -

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus
of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the penis,
into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause penetration into
the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the child or makes the child to do so with
him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the child or makes
the child to do so to such person or any other person.

“4. Punishment for penetrative sexual assault. - Whoever commits
penetrative sexual assault shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a
term which shall not be less then 7 years but which may extend to imprisonment for life,

and shall also be liable to fine.”

11. On perusal of section 366-A IPC the following ingredients are found:
I) The accused induces a minor girl below the age of 18 years;
II) she was forced to go from any place or to do any act;
III) she was induced with the intent that she might be or knowing it to be
likely that she would be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with another

person.

12. Now, in the context of the offence u/s 366-A IPC let this court examine what the

witnesses have said in this regard.
4

13. PW-2, the informant and PW-3 one of the alleged victim deposed that the incident
occurred about 3 years back. But neither PW-2 nor PW-3 who are the informant and
alleged victim can remember the date of the incident. PW-3 the alleged victim deposed
that she eloped with Jafar as a result of her affairs with him and PW-2 the father cum
informant deposed that one of the girl returned home after 2 days of the incident and the
other after 4 days of the incident. But he failed to depose that accused persons played any
role in the alleged offences of kidnapping. PW-2 & PW-3 no where stated that accused
Jafar Khan and Babul Ali committed the offence of kidnapping the sisters while going to
school. Therefore, from the evidence of PW-2 & PW3 the ingredients of the offence u/s
366(A)/34 IPC are not at all established not to speak of having committed the offence by
them in furtherance of their common intention. As it appears the victim herself negated

the prosecution case. Therefore, there is no corroboration in her evidence.

14. Now, on perusal of the offence u/s 3 of POCSO Act it appears that section 3
defined the nature of the act/acts which constitutes the penetrative sexual assault and
section 4 of the POCSO Act provides punishment for any of the act/acts done by accused
as defined in section 3 (a) to (d).

15. PW-2, the informant cum father of the victim girl in his evidence deposed that
about two years back his daughter disappeared from house without intimation to him for

which he filed the present case against the accused person on suspicion.

16. On careful evaluation of the evidence of PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 what crystallizes
before this court is that the alleged victim girls eloped with their lovers on their own will
without any force or pressure because they fell in love with accused persons. Even though,
in the FIR (Ext.1) it was alleged that accused kidnapped the girls by force, but there is no
substantive evidence to that effect in the mouth of three prosecution witnesses. So, the
ingredients of the offence u/s 366(A) IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act appears to have not
attracted in the present case. Moreover, the age of the victim has also not been proved.
There is no evidence at all on record to show that accused had committed any penetrative
sexual assault on the victim girl. Given the nature of evidence available on record going for
recording evidence of remaining witnesses will not bring any positive result. None of the

two prosecution witnesses have spell out a single word against the accused persons.

17. Moreover, PW-1 Dr. Mamata Devi on examination of victim Dilwara Khatun found

no sign of any recent sexual intercourse with the victim. Apart from this the age of victim
was found above 14 years and below 16 years but in order to ascertain the actual age of

the victim no credible documents have been proved by prosecution.

18. This being the position, this court is of the considered view that prosecution failed
to establish the case against accused Babul Ali and Jafar Khan u/s 366(A)/34 IPC and
section 4 of POCSO Act as there was absolutely no materials emerged in the mouth of the
three prosecution witnesses for having found the accused persons guilty for sustaining
conviction for the aforesaid offences. Therefore, this court has no option but to acquit the
accused Babul Ali and Jafar Khan from the offences u/s 366(A)/34 IPC and section 4 of
POCSO Act on the ground of insufficient evidence and set them at liberty forthwith.

19. The terms of bail bond of accused persons are extended for a period of 6 (six)
months from to-day as provided u/s 437(A) Cr.P.C.

20. Let a copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District Magistrate,
Barpeta as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.

21. Let the case record be consigned to record room after completing the formalities.

22. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 30th day of October, 2019, at

Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me

Sd/-
Sd/- (Sri C.B. Gogoi)
(Sri C.B. Gogoi) Special Judge,
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Barpeta.
6

APPENDIX

The prosecution has examined the following 3 nos. of witnesses:-

PW-1 = Dr. Mamata Devi, the medical officer.
PW-2 = Bilat Hussain, the informant.
PW-3 = the victim girl.

The prosecution has exhibited the following documents :-

Ext. 1 = the medical report.
Ext.1(1) = _ is the signature of doctor.

Ext.2 = the medical report

Ext.2(1) = _ is the signature of doctor.
Ext.3 = the FIR.

Ext.3(1) = __ is the signature of informant.
Ext.4 = the seizure list.

Ext.4(1) = is the signature of informant.

Ext. 4 (A) = the original registration certificate of Dilwara Khatun.

Ext.4(AA) = is the photocopy of the said registration certificate
compared with original.

Ext.5 = the seizure list.

Ext.5(1) = is the signature of informant.

Sd/-
(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge,
Barpeta.
