IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018
(G.R. Case No. 41 of 2018)
Garamur P.S. Case No. 16 of 2018

Transmitting Magistrate:-

Sri Lakhi Nandan Pegu,
Learned Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate,
Majuli, Jorhat

State of Assam

-Versus-

Sri Sachin Sarkar,

Son of Late Rahul Sarkar,

Resident of Kakorikota Gaon,

P.S. Garamur,

District-Majuli, Assam. ..1. Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri Bhaba Goswami, Senior Advocate
& Sri Siddhartha Mouzamdar,
Learned Counsel, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 354 [A] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 8 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM
SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 19-06-2018

Date of prosecution evidence : 13-07-2018; 04-08-2018; 04-10-2018;
& 20-12-2018

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 02-01-2019

Date of Argument : 19-01-2019

Date of Judgment : 28-01-2019

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Garamur P.S. Case No.
16/2018 under Section 354 [A] of IPC read with Section 8 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was registered on
the basis of F.I.R. lodged by the victim [hereinafter referred to as ‘X’] who
happened to be the minor daughter of Sri Ranjan Sarkar.

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 02/04/2018 [Exhibit-1] the
victim-cum-informant [PW-1] alleged, /nter-a/ia, that on 01/04/2018 at about
11.00 A.M., while she was residing alone in her residence, accused Sachin Sarkar
being her neighbour, arrived at her house, grabbed her from back side, gagged
her mouth with cloth and thereafter attempted to commit rape upon her. It is
further alleged by the victim that she somehow freed from the clutches of
accused and thereafter cried for help and came out of the residence.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-in-charge,
Garamur P.S., the same was registered by the Officer-in-charge, Garamur P.S. as
Garamur P.S. Case No. 16/2018 under Section 354 [A] of IPC read with
Section 8 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was medically
examined by the doctor, statement of victim under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was
recorded by the learned Magistrate. Police, on completion of investigation, filed
charge-sheet in the case against the above named accused Sachin Sarkar u/S.
354 [A] of IPC read with Section 8 of The Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 vide Charge-sheet No. 12/2018 dated 06/04/2018.

2). The learned Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Majuli, Jorhat,
transmitted the case to this court for trial as it was covered under POCSO Act.

Copy to the accused was furnished in due course.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the learned counsel for
the accused and the prosecution in this behalf, the undersigned found grounds to
frame charges against the accused. Accordingly, charges were framed against
the present accused under Section 354 [A] of IPC read with Section 8 of The

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Charges were read over
and explained to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 06 [six] numbers of witnesses including
the victim-cum-informant of the case, her father, Medical Officer and the I.O.
were examined, on behalf of the prosecution, to prove the charge u/S. 354 [A] of
IPC read with Section 8 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that he has been
falsely implicated in the case. It is further version of accused that father of victim
namely Sri Ranjan Sarkar [PW-2] brought Rs. 30,000/- from Smt. Puspa Payung
to give it to him. But PW-2 did not give the amount to him. On being asked, Sri
Ranjan Sarkar [PW-2] quarreled with him and lodged false case against him
through his daughter [PW-1]. The accused pleaded innocence. No witness was

adduced by the accused in defence.

5). I have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor
for the State as well as Sri Bhaba Goswami, Senior Advocate being accompanied
by Sri Siddhartha Mouzamdar, learned Defence Counsel for the accused who is
facing trial for commission of offence u/S. 354 [A] of IPC read with Section 8 of
The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on 01/04/2018 at about 11.00 A.M., the accused
touched the body of victim from back side after gagging her
mouth and throwing her on the floor of the house [or used
criminal force to a minor girl, intending to outrage] [or knowing
it to be likely that the accused would thereby outrage] the
modesty of the victim-cum-informant of the case, and thereby

committed an offence punishable under Section 354 [A] of IPC?

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018
2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused named above
committed sexual assault upon the victim girl of the case, and
thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 8 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7). To decide the above points, let me examine, analyze and appreciate
the evidence of the witnesses along with the relevant documents.

PW-1 [Xj] is the victim girl-cum-informant of the case, who during
her deposition in Court stated in the same tune as that of her ejahar. It is further
stated by the victim that the accused entered her residence, grabbed her from
behind and tried to open her cloth but when she raised hue and cry the later
could not succeed in his act. Hearing her cries, her Borta namely Sri Jintu Sarkar,
arrived at her residence but the accused fled away from her house before arrival
of her Borta. She then narrated the incident before her Borta. When her mother
arrived in the house in the evening hour she disclosed the incident before her
also who, in turn, told the incident before neighbouring people. On the next day,
she lodged ejahar before police vide Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-1 [1] is her
signature. Police took her before a doctor for medico legal check-up. Thereafter
she was produced before the court where learned Magistrate recorded her
statement vide Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2 [1] to Exhibit-2 [3] are her signatures.

During cross-examination, she stated that the accused is her paternal
uncle; that he used to visit their house and a relative prior to the incident.
Accused also have cultivable land and gives portion of rice to them. It is further
version of the victim that accused also goes to catch fish with her father Sri
Ranjan Sarkar and both of them had fish business together. She also used to visit
the house of accused. Further version of victim is that she had love affair with
one boy named Rajkumar Das but she did not go with him on 03/07/2018. She
confirmed that residence of her Bortha namely Mukul Sarkar is adjacent to her
house; that she did not state before police that upon shout being raised from her
side her Borta came to her house. She denied all the defence suggestions put to

her during cross-examination.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018
8). PW-2 is Sri Ranjan Sarkar who is father of victim of the case. It is
his version that, on the date of incident, he was at his work place. When he
returned back home at about 8.00 P.M., he noticed VPD personnel in his
residence and came to know that the accused entered his house from backside
and grabbed the victim who is his daughter from behind and tried to open her
cloth. On the next day of incident his daughter [PW-1] lodged ejahar before
police. It is further version of this witness that police during investigation seized
the birth certificate of the victim vide seizure-list [Exhibit-3] wherein Exhibit-3 [1]
is his signature. His daughter was sent to the court for recording statement by
the Magistrate.

During his cross-examination, this witness stated that when he
returned back home he found his daughter, wife and his son present inside the
house. Later on, VDP personnel namely Sri Biren Sarkar and Sri Sadhan Sarkar
arrived at his residence. He did not state before police that he came to know
about the incident on the way back home. This witness knew Rajkumar Das who
had love affair with his daughter. Accused assaulted aforesaid Rajkumar Das for
keeping relationship with his daughter. His daughter did not flee with said
Rajkumar Das. This witness confirmed that no meeting took place for the
aforesaid incident. He came to know about the incident from his daughter [PW-
1].

9). Dr. Gayatri Senapati [PW-3] examined the victim on 02/04/2018,
when she was posted as Deputy Superintendent, Kamalabari CHC, Majuli, Jorhat.
To her opinion, no violation mark was seen on the private part of victim. She
exhibited her report as Exhibit-4 and her signature thereon as Exhibit-4 [1].

The doctor stated that she did not mention the age of victim in her
medical report. Victim did not reveal before her the history and hence she did not

mention the same in her report.
10). The evidence of Sri Nitul Sarkar [PW-4] and Sri Jintu Sarkar

[PW-5] who are neighbours of victim stated that on the next day both of them

came to know about the incident. Both of these witnesses have further stated

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018
that the accused as well as father of victim indulged in fish business and there
was monetary transaction in between both of them.

Sri Nitul Sarkar [PW-4] was declared hostile by prosecution

 

side and during cross-examination by prosecution this witness denied to have
stated before police that “on the date of incident he heard cries of the
victim; that he proceeded immediately towards the house of victim and
noticed the accused fleeing away from the residence of victim; that
victim stated before him that while she was offering Puja at that time
accused entered into her residence and grabbed her from back side and
thereafter attempted to commit rape upon her”.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side stated that his
house is just adjacent to the house of victim and he did not hear anything on the
date of incident nor did he hear shout/cries of help of the victim. it is further
stated by this witness that father of victim namely Sri Ranjan Sarkar was
witnessed by him in his residence on the relevant day. Prior to the date of
incident he witnessed altercation in between accused as well as father of victim
due to some monetary transaction in between them. He confirmed that police did
not ask him anything regarding the incident.

During cross-examination, he stated that he did not witness the
incident; he did not find accused as well as victim at the place of incident and

further that he did not talk with the accused or victim on the date of incident.

 

11). Sri Jintu Sarkar [PW-5] was also declared hostile by
prosecution side. This witness during cross-examination by prosecution side
denied to have stated before police that “on the date of incident he heard
cries of the victim; that he proceeded immediately towards the house
of victim and noticed accused fleeing away from the residence of
victim; that victim stated before him that while she was offering Puja
at that time the accused entered into her residence and grabbed her
from back side and thereafter attempted to commit rape upon her, for
which, she cried for help”.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side stated that

his house is just adjacent to the house of victim and he did not hear anything on

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018
the date of incident nor did he heard shouts/cries of help of victim. Prior to the
incident he heard from nearby people that there was altercation in between
accused as well as father of victim due to some monetary transaction in between

them.

12). Sri Nilutpal Doley [PW-6] is the investigating officer of the
instant case who deposed about the routine steps taken by him during
investigation. During investigation, he seized the birth certificate of the victim
vide seizure-list [Exhibit-3] wherein Exhibit-3 [2] is his signature. He also
arrested the accused in connection with the case. After collecting the medico-
legal report of victim he submitted charge-sheet against accused vide Exhibit-5
wherein Exhibit-5 [1] is his signature.

The I.O. confirmed that witness Sri Nitul Sarkar [PW-4] during
his statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. stated before him that “on the date of
incident he heard cries of the victim; that he proceeded immediately
towards the house of victim and noticed the accused fleeing away from
the residence of victim; that victim stated before him that while she
was offering Puja at that time accused entered into her residence and
grabbed her from back side and thereafter attempted to commit rape
upon her”.

Witness Sri Jintu Sarkar [PW-5] during his statement under
Section 161 Cr.P.C. divulged before him that “on the date of incident he
heard cries of the victim; that he proceeded immediately towards the
house of victim and noticed accused fleeing away from the residence of
victim; that victim stated before him that while she was offering Puja
at that time the accused entered into her residence and grabbed her
from back side and thereafter attempted to commit rape upon her, for
which, she cried for help”.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side stated that
he seized the birth certificate of the victim from the victim herself.

Victim [PW-1] during her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C.
did not state before him that “accused entered into her house from back

side and that accused tried to open her cloth at the time of incident”.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018
The I.0. confirmed that accused as well as father of victim were

doing fish business.

13). The accused during his examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C. stated
that he has been falsely implicated in the case and he is innocent. It is further
version of accused that father of victim namely Sri Ranjan Sarkar [PW-2] brought
Rs. 30,000/- from Smt. Puspa Payung to give it to him. But PW-2 did not give the
amount to him. On being asked, Sri Ranjan Sarkar [PW-2] quarreled with him

and lodged false case against him through his daughter [PW-1].

14). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that the
victim [PW-1] who is the star witness of the instant case has stated that accused
entered her residence, grabbed her from behind and tried to open her cloth but
when she raised hue and cry the later could not succeed in his act. Hearing her
cries, her Borta namely Sri Jintu Sarkar, arrived at her residence and then the
accused fled away from her house before arrival of her Borta. She then narrated
the incident before her said Borta. When her mother arrived in the house in the
evening hour she disclosed the incident before her also who in turn told the
incident before neighbouring people. On the next day, she lodged ejahar before
police vide Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-1 [1] is her signature. Police took her before
a doctor for medico legal check-up. Thereafter she was produced before the
court where learned Magistrate recorded her statement vide Exhibit-2 wherein
Exhibit-2 [1] to Exhibit-2 [3] are her signatures.

During cross-examination, the victim stated that accused is her
paternal uncle; that he used to visit their house and a relative prior to the
incident. Accused also have cultivable land and gives portion of rice to them. It is
further version of the victim that accused also goes to catch fish with her father
Sri Ranjan Sarkar and both of them had fish business together. She also used to
visit the house of accused. Further version of victim is that she had love affair
with one boy named Rajkumar Das but she did not go with him on 03/07/2018.
She confirmed that residence of her Bortha namely Mukul Sarkar is adjacent to

her house; that she did not state before police that upon shout being raised from

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018
her side her Borta came to her house. She denied all the defence suggestions put

to her during cross-examination.

15). The evidence of Sri Ranjan Sarkar [PW-2] who is father of victim of the
case is to the effect that on the date of incident, he was at his work place. When
he returned back home at about 8.00 P.M., he noticed VPD personnel in his
residence and came to know that the accused entered his house from backside
and grabbed the victim who is his daughter from behind and tried to open her
cloth.

During his cross-examination, this witness stated that when he
returned back home he found his daughter, wife and his son present inside the
house. Later on, VDP personnel namely Sri Biren Sarkar and Sri Sadhan Sarkar
arrived at his residence. He did not state before police that he came to know
about the incident on the way back home. This witness knew Rajkumar Das who
had love affair with his daughter. Accused assaulted aforesaid Rajkumar Das for
keeping relationship with his daughter. His daughter did not flee with said
Rajkumar Das. This witness confirmed that no meeting took place for the
aforesaid incident. He came to know about the incident from his daughter [PW-
1).

16). The 1.0. [PW-6] during cross-examination stated that victim [PW-
1] during her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. did not state before him that
“accused entered into her house from back side and that accused tried

to open her cloth at the time of incident”.

17). But when the victim was produced before the court to record her
statement by the learned Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C., the victim
categorically deposed that “on the date of incident she was offering Puja inside
the house; that accused entered into her residence and grabbed her from
behind; that he put gagged her mouth with cloth and made her fell on the
ground and attempted to commit rape upon her; that at that time she cried for
help and when neighbouring people arrived at her house the accused fled away

from her residence; that when her parent returned back home from the paddy

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018
10

field she disclosed the incident before them”. She did not utter any word that
Borta namely Mukul Sarkar who resided near her residence immediately arrived

at her residence.

18). The 1.0. after collecting the statement of the victim recorded by
the learned Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. did not record statement of the
aforesaid “Borta” who reportedly arrived at her residence. The I.O. ought to have
examine this important witness. Furthermore, it is seen from the evidence of Sri
Ranjan Sarkar [PW-2] who is the father of victim that when he returned back
home he witnessed his daughter, his wife and son present inside the house. But
the I.0. of the case did not examine his wife and son for the reasons best known

to him.

19). The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Assistant Collector of
Central Excise, Calicut—versus- V.P. Sayed Mohammad, reported in AIR
1983 SC 163 held as follows:

“It is true that the onus of proving the facts essential to the
establishment of discharge against an accused lies upon the
prosecution and the evidence must be such as to exclude every
reasonable doubt about the guilt of the accused. An accused cannot be
convicted of an offence on the basis of conjectures or suspicions. If
reasonable doubt arises in the mind of the court after taking into
consideration the entire material before it regarding the complicity of
the accused the benefit of such doubt should be given to the accused
but the reasonable doubt should be a real and substantial one and a
well founded actual doubt arising out of the evidence existing after

consideration of all the evidence”.

20). Keeping in mind the above rationale as laid down by the Hon’ble
Apex Court, I am constrained to hold that the evidence adduced by the
prosecution in support of its case is nothing shorter than mere conjectures and

suspicion.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018

10
11

The prosecution side has failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt
that the accused tried to outrage the modesty of the victim-cum-informant of the
case. From the facts and circumstance of the case it is seen that victim had
improved her version when she was produced before the court for recording
statement by the Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. as well as before this
court. As stated above, prosecution side has failed to adduce evidence of “Borta
namely Mukul Sarkar” who according to the victim arrived at her residence after

hearing her cries for help.

21). Consequently the charge under Section 354 [A] of IPC as well as
under Section 8 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 is
held to be not proved against accused Sri Sachin Sarkar beyond all reasonable
doubt. Accordingly, the accused is found entitled to get benefit of doubt, for
which, the accused Sri Sachin Sarkar is acquitted on benefit of doubt under
Section 354 [A] IPC as well as under Section 8 of The Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

22). Accused is on bail. The bail bond of accused is extended for another
06 [six] months from today as per provision of Section 437-A Cr.P.C.
Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 28th day of

January 2019.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:- 12

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018

11
12

 

 

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW-1 Victim girl-cum-informant of the case.
PW-2 Sri Ranjan Sarkar, father of victim.
PW-3 Dr. Gayatri Senapati, who examined the victim.
PW-4 Sri Nitul Sarkar, businessman.
PW-5 Sri Jintu Sarkar, another businessman.
PW-6 Sri Nilutpal Doley, I.0. of the case.

 

 

 

COURT WITNESS:- NIL
EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

  
    
  
   

 

 

 

   

   

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Ejahar

Exhibit-2 Statement of the victim recorded by the Magistrate
under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-3 Seizure-list

Exhibit-4 Medico-legal report of victim

Exhibit-5 Sketch Map of the site of occurrence with index

Exhibit-6 Charge-sheet

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018 1 2
SPECIAL CASE NO. 23 OF 2018

13

13
