IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON ::: ASSAM.

Special (POCSO) Case No.-76/2018
U/S-366/366(AJIPC, r/w Section-4 of the POCSO Act.

State
- Versus -

1. Saharuddin.
2. Suruj Ali.
: Accused persons.

Present :
Md. A. Rahman, AJS
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Mr. M.J. Neog, Ld. Special Prosecutor.
For the accused persons : Smti. S. Knanam, Ld. Advocate.
Charge framed on : 06/09/2018.

Evidence recorded on : 21/06/2019 & 03/09/2019.

Date of recording 313 Cr.P.C. statement : 28/08/2019.

Date of Argument : 03/09/2019.

Date of Judgment : 03/09/2019.

Contd...
UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case unfurled in the Ejahar (FIR) dated-
26/06/2018 lodged by Samsun Nehar (actual name withheld) of
Village- Kumargaon in brief is that on 25/06/2018 at about 8 p.m,
accused Saharuddin of the same village kidnapped her minor daughter
“Miss. X” (name is withheld), aged around 13 / 14 years, by a
motorcycle from her house to Nampanigaon. Thereafter, he committed
sexual intercourse with her in a field. Nearby people of the said field
apprehended the accused and handed over him to police.

2. On the basis of the written Ejahar, the O/C of Rupahihat
Police Station registered a case u/s-363 IPC, r/w Section-4 of the POCSO
Act. Accordingly, the criminal investigation was put into motion. During
the investigation, police recorded the statements of the witnesses
including the victim. She was medically examined and produced before
the learned Magistrate for recording her statement u/s-164 Cr.P.C.
Accused Saharuddin was arrested and forwarded to the court. On
completion of investigation, Police submitted Charge Sheet against
accused Saharuddin and Suruj Ali u/s-366(A) IPC, r/w Section-4 of the
POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the Charge Sheet, this instant Special Case was
registered and the same was transferred to this court for disposal. The
accused persons appeared before this court. After considering the
submission of both sides and materials on record, charge u/s-366(A)
IPC was framed against accused Suruj Ali and charges u/s-366 IPC, r/w
Section-4 of the POCSO Act were framed against accused Saharuddin.
They denied the charges and claimed to be tried.

Contd...
4. During the trial, prosecution examined the complainant and
the victim. Considering the evidence of the said vital witnesses, further
prosecution evidence was closed. The acused persons were examined
u/s-313 Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial.

5. Now the points for determination are as follows :-
(i) Whether accused Suruj Ali kidnapped the victim girl “Miss.

X” with an intention that she might be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse with co-accused Saharuddin and thereby committed an
offence punishable u/s-366(A) IPC ?

(ii) Whether accused Saharuddin kidnapped victim “Miss. X”,
minor daughter of the informant with an intention or knowing likely
that she would be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with him and
thereby committed an offence punishable u/s-366 IPC ?

(iii) Whether accused Saharuddin committed penetrative
sexual assault upon “Miss. X” and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s-4 of the POCSO Act ?

DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF

6. | have heard Mr. M.J. Neog, learned Special Prosecutor as well
as Mrs. S. Khanam, learned counsel for the defence. The evidence on
record is thoroughly and minutely scrutinized.

7. PW-1 is the complainant as well as mother of the minor
victim “Miss. X” (PW-2). PW-1 has deposed that the occurrence took
place about one year back on a certain night. On the relevant night,
she was watching television with her victim daughter PW-2. Thereafter,
she went to the kitchen to cook dinner. After a few minutes, she

Contd...
4

returned to their dwelling house and found PW-2 was missing. She
came to the road and saw PW-2 was running towards her house from
the side of police camp at Nampanigaon. She stated that her uncle
Saharuddin (accused) took away her by a motorcycle. Thereafter, he
forcibly administered wine and having removed undergarment
committed sexual intercourse with her. Police came and brought
accused Saharuddin and Suruj Ali to the Police Station.

In cross-examination, she has stated that her house is
intervened by one village road from the house of accused Saharuddin.
She has stated that before police, she did not state that PW-2 was
running towards her house from the camp side. Her daughter rides
bicycle. She has also stated that Nazima is the wife of accused
Saharuddin and he has two daughters who were already married and
he has grand-children. She has further stated that PW-2 addresses
Saharuddin as 'Khura'. She denied the suggestion that the case was
lodged with false story due to land dispute.

8. PW-2 “Miss. X” is the vital witness of the prosecution. She
has stated that accused Saharuddin is her own paternal uncle. Accused
Suruj Ali is her brother-in-law by relation. She has stated that about one
year back on a certain evening, she had a quarrel with her mother. As
such, she came out and went to the Battalion Camp at Nampanigaon.
Thereafter, her uncle Saharuddin brought her back on foot. People out
of suspicion confined her and her uncle. Her mother lodged the case
under the influence of the villagers. Police got her examined through
the doctor at Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital. Her statement was also
recorded before the Magistrate.

In cross-examination, she has very candidly stated that there

was a dispute over the path in between their house and the house of
her uncle Saharuddin and her uncle simply brought her back from

Contd...
nearby the camp.

9. From the evidence of PW-2 who is the star witness as well as
victim, it becomes clear that she has not implicated any of the accused
persons in respect of any offence as alleged in the FIR. It is relevant to
mention that statement u/s-164 Cr.P.C. is not a substantive piece of
evidence. As such, the same cannot be the basis to convict an
accused. PW-2 herself has not stated anything that the accused
persons kidnapped her or committed bad work with her. Therefore, it
cannot be statutorily presumed u/s-29 of the POCSO Act that accused
Saharuddin committed offence u/s-4 of the POCSO Act.

10. The statutory presumption is a rule of evidence. It is not
against the presumption of innocence of the accused unless proven
guilty of the offence beyond all reasonable doubt. Speaking in other
words, without prima facie evidence of the alleged victim regarding
presumption u/s-29 of the POCSO Act cannot be applied to hold that
the accused has committed the offence.

11. In view of the above discussion, it becomes crystal clear that
then prosecution has failed to prove the case against the accused
persons beyond reasonable doubt. Accordingly, they are acquitted on
benefit of doubt.

12. The bail bonds and sureties shall stand discharged after six
months in terms of Section-437(A) Cr.P.C. from this date.

13. This Special Case is disposed of accordingly.

Contd...
Judgment is pronounced = and
delivered in the open Court under the seal
of this Court and on my signature on this
3" day of September, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me.
Special Judge, Nagaon.
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
APPENDIX :-

Oral evidence :-
PW-1 Musstt. Samsun Nehar. (Actual name withheld)
PW-2 Miss. X. (Actual name withheld)

Documentary evidence :-
Nil.

Defence side did not adduce any evidence.

Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
