Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC), SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASE NO. :- 05 of 2017
(Under Section 18 of Protection of Children

From Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, Arising
out of GR Case No 2187 of 2016)

Present !- R. Baruah
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Prosecutor - State of Assam
-Vs-
Accused :- Sri Ashok Tanti,

S/o Late Dhanu Tanti,
Resident of Ghoiralibagan,
PS — Rangapara,

Dist- Sonitpur, Assam

Date of framing charge = 19-06-2017.

Date of Recording Evidence :- 30-06-2017, 23-04-2018, 08-06-2018 &
26-02-2019.

Date of examination of accused

u/s 313 of Cr B.C :- 30-05-2019.

Date of Argument - 01-06-2019.

Date of Judgment = 24-06-2019.

Counsel of the Prosecution - Mr A Baruah & Mrs J Baruah,
Learned Addl. Public Prosecutors,
Tezpur.

Counsel for Accused :- B Borthakur,

Learned Legal Aid Counsel.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Ashok Tanti is put for trial for the allegation of

charge under Section 18 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act
(hereinafter referred to as ‘POCSO Act’).
Page |2

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 09-07-2016 informant Manjita
Karmakar lodged FIR before the Rangapara PS stating inter alia that on 02-06-2016
her minor daughter (aged about six years) Miss “X” (named changed in the
judgment), who is a deaf and dumb girl was called by the accused to his home and
tried to outrage her modesty. At that moment, the informant went to the house of
accused in search of her daughter and noticed her daughter in naked condition and
on seeing her the accused fled away from his house. As the matter was placed

before the people for settling the matter, delay occurred in filing the case.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, OC, Rangapara Police Station registered the
case vide Rangapara PS case No. 76/16 under Section 354-B/511 of IPC, r/w Section
12 of POCSO Act. Police, after completion of investigation, submitted charge sheet
against the accused Ashok Tanti under Section 354-B/511 of IPC, r/w Section 12 of
POCSO Act for trial.

4. On appearance of the accused and after hearing the learned Advocate
for both the sides, charge under Section 18 of POCSO Act framed against the
accused. The above charge is read over and explained to the accused to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined as many as
5(five) nos. of witnesses including the informant namely 1. Sri Suresh Tanti(PW1),
2.Smti Manjita Karmakar(PW2), 3.Smti Dina Tanti(PW3), 4.Smti Madhuri
Karmakar(PW4) & 5.Sri Basanta Kr Borah(PW5), IO and one examined by court as

court witness, namely Sri Budhuwa Karmakar (CW1).

6. Accused was examined under section 313 Cr.P.C. The defence plea is

of total denial and declined to adduce defence evidence.

7. I have carefully gone through the record of the case and heard the

learned Counsel for both the sides.

8. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) “Whether the accused, on 2-6-2016
(Thursday), at Moirali under Rangapara PS,
Page |3

attempted to commit any offence punishable
under the POCSO Act or to cause such an offence
to be committed, and in such attempt, does any
Act towards the commission of the offence, on
Miss "X” (6 years deaf and dumb girl) ?

Reasons, decisions and reason for decision:

 

9. Before appreciating the evidences adduced by the parties, I deem it fit

to reflect the summaries of evidence of the witnesses.

10. PW1 said that he knows both accused and the informant. The
informant used to reside in the same house with the accused in different parts. The
incident took place about eight months ago. While he returned from his duty at
around 4.30 PM, he heard quarrel taking place between accused and the informant.
He heard that accused caught victim's child. The mother of victim told him that she
noticed the accused holding her daughter (victim) while there were no clothes on the
body of the child. Prior to the quarrel the accused had been to the hospital and the
quarrel took place while returning from the hospital. During investigation, police
seized one Photostat copy of birth certificate of victim. At that time he was present
and he put his signature in the seizure list. Ext.1 is the seizure list.

In his cross examination he said that the mother of the victim told him that
accused was playing with the victim taking the victim in his lap. He has not seen if
there was any cloth on the body of the victim or not. At the time of putting his
signature in Ext.1, police told him that it is taken as a proof that police came to the
place of occurrence, so, he can put his signature. He does not know about the

contents of Ext.1.

11. PW22 the informant of this case said that she knows the accused. She
and accused reside in the same house in different parts. Victim is her daughter and
at that time her age was 6 years. The incident occurred about one year back at
around 11.00 AM. At that time she was in her house and her two daughters were
playing in the courtyard. As she did not see her daughters, she called her younger
daughter and asked for victim, then, she replied that victim is in the house of
accused. She went to the house of accused and saw her daughter (victim) in naked

condition and the accused attempted to rape her. At that moment she went to the
Page |4

place and brought her daughter to her home and the accused fled away from his
house. She informed the matter to her neighbor Madhuri and she also told about the
incident to her husband at about 2.00 PM while he returned from work. She also
informed Prakash Kishan, Dilip Tirki and some other persons of the village. The
villagers assured her to settle the matter, but no sitting for settlement took place.
After 4/5 days she saw the accused and assaulted him. After the assault the accused
went to the Hospital of the Tea Estate. She informed the matter to the Manager of
the Tea Estate. As the matter was not settled, she lodged FIR before Rangapara PS.
Ext.2 is the ejahar. After receiving the ejahar police visited the place of occurrence.
She furnished a Photostat copy of birth certificate of victim to the police. Police
seized the same vide Ext.1. As the victim is a deaf and dumb girl, her statement was
not recorded by police.

During her cross examination, PW2 said that she and the accused
reside in the same quarter in different part. There are three rooms in each part.
There are three members of accused and they have five members. The latrine and
bathroom are separate for each family. The victim do not what she is wearing nor
does she know to wear or take off clothes. The incident took place during summer
days. The house of accused and her house are like same family. Both the families
were in visiting terms and the relation was cordial. No clothes of her daughter or
clothes of accused seized by the police.

The PW2 denied that she stated to police that as informed by her
younger daughter she went to the house of the accused and noticed that there is no
clothes on the body of the accused and her child and accused attempted to rape the
girl. When she told the Manager, he informed the police by phone. Police recorded
her statement and the statement of the accused, Madhuri Nayak and husband
Budhuwa. PW2 said that she lodge the FIR after one month of the occurrence.
Budhuwa put his signature in English. PW2 denied that Budhuwa never lodged FIR.
House of Madhuri Nayak is situated near her house. She denied that she did not
state to the police that except Madhuri Nayak she did not disclosed the fact to other.
She assaulted the accused in the house and accused informed the matter to the
Manager. After one month of this incident she lodge the FIR. PW2 denied that no
incident took place and she lodge the case only to save herself from the case of
assault on the accused. PW2 denied that no meeting took place in the Tea Estate

regarding the incident.
Page |5

12. PWS stated that she knows the informant, victim and the accused.
She said that she do not know anything regarding the incident. She is not cross

examined by the defence.

13. PW4é said that the incident took place about two years ago. She said
that the mother of victim reported her that accused in his house open the pant of
her victim daughter, who is aged about 5 years. During investigation, IO has seized
one birth certificate of victim. At the time of seizure of the said certificate, she was
present. Ext.1 is the seizure list. She has seen the Photostat copy of said seized
certificate.

During cross examination, the PW4 said that at the time of seizure of the
birth certificate, she has not seen the said certificate. Victim, accused and they
resides at the same village and they are neighbors. Even family members of
aforesaid three families have visiting terms with each other. Accused has a child
almost the same age of victim. Later on, she came to know that accused opened the

pant of victim as her pant was stained with mud.

14. PWS, the investigating officer said that on 09-07-2016 he was posted
as SI of police at Rangapara police station. On that day, one Manjita Karmakar
lodged an ejahar before the Rangapara police station and OC of Rangapara PS
entrusted him to investigate the case. Accordingly, he visited the place of occurrence,
prepared the sketch map and recorded the statement of the witnesses under Section
161 of CrPC. Ext.3 is the sketch map. He has also seized one birth certificate of the
victim in presence of the witnesses. Ext.1 is the seizure list. Photostat copy of the
Seized birth certificate is enclosed with the case record. As he has retired from the
service, the case diary along with all the documents handed over to the then OC,
Rangapara Police Station.

In his cross examination he said that on 10-07-2016, he has prepared the
sketch map of the place of occurrence. The incident took place on 02-06-2016 and
the ejahar was received on 09-07-2016 at about 9.15 PM. In the FIR it was stated
that as the informant has informed the matter to local public, so informant being
depend upon the local public, there is delay in lodging the FIR. As the victim was
deaf and dumb girl he has not recorded her statement under Section 161 of CrPC.
He has not made attempt to record the statement of the victim through the

interpreter. He has recorded the statement of Madhury Nayak, Rina Tanti and Suresh
Page |6

Tanti as their names were mentioned in the sketch map. He has also recorded the
statement of complainant. Other than them, he has not recorded the statement of
other witnesses. In connection this case, he has not seized any wearing apparels of
the victim. He has searched for the original birth certificate, but, the complainant

submits the Photostat copy of the birth certificate.

15. CW1 is the father of the victim. He stated that victim is his elder
daughter. Presently her age is about 7(seven) years. She is deaf and dumb girl. He
has not enrolled victim in a formal deaf and dumb school. Victim at any time remains
with her mother. Her mother (i.e. his wife) is a housewife. The mental development
of victim is very slow. Victim cannot express her needs and hence, his wife use to
provide victim the needs and care in a routine manner. Victim used to get frightened
in a crowd. After 2 Y2 years her mental development has slowed down. There is no
one to whom his daughter used to express her mind. Victim cannot express her
hunger or thirst. Victim does not know about her relation with her siblings. Up to 2
Y2 years victim attended Anganwadi School. At that time she used to call him and his
wife as “baba” and “ma” respectively. Thereafter, her mental development has
slowed much. Thereafter she stopped calling them. They consulted the doctor of
GMCH and thereafter provided medication for 1 2 years. Nothing has changed. The
incident of present case took place about 2 2 years ago. At that time her age was

about 5 years.

16. The following is mentioned in the order sheet of the court after
recording the statement of the CW1,
“ Learned advocate for the accused is present. The case Is taken up in
camera.
The parents of the victim appeared before the Court with the victim.
The evidence of victim could not be recorded. Hence, the father of the victim
Is examined as Court witness. The father of the victim stated that after
attaining 2 ¥ years of age, gradually the mental development of victim has
decreased He also stated that the victim cannot express her mind and they
used to fulfill the daily need of the victim in a routine manner It Is also
informed by the father of victim that victim up to 2 ¥% years of age attended
Anganwadi and thereafter victim stopped calling him and his wife.

Attempts have been made to communicate with the victim in presence
17.

Page |7
of learned advocates for both the side and parents of victim. It is found that
statement of victim cannot be recorded as victim does not express herself in

any manner.”

I have carefully gone through the record and heard the learned

Advocates for both sides. The learned Addl. PP during argument pleaded to consider

the following facts:

18.

19.

a. That the victim cannot speak. At that time her age was 6 years.

b. The PW1 is reported witness, who resides near the house of
PW2(informant),

c. The PW2 witnessed the incident,

d. The accused fled from the place of the incident. Hence, the conduct of
the accused be noted,

e. The incident occurred during day time,

f. As the victim cannot speak, police could not record her statement,

g. The PW4 said that as reported by PW2, the accused opened the pant of
the victim,

h. The delay in lodging the FIR is natural, considering the nature of offence.

The learned Advocate for the accused argued as follows:

. As per the sketch map prepared by the IO, the quarter of informant and

accused is adjacent to each other i.e. in the same quarter in two parts.

. The evidence reflects that the accused has also got children and there is

visiting terms between the families. The accused just lifted the victim.

. The date of alleged occurrence is 02-06-2016 and FIR lodged on 09-07-2016.

The PW2 said that Manager of the Tea Estate was informed prior to lodging
FIR, but, the Manager is not examined by the prosecution. No reason is there

for delay in reporting.

. The victim is immature. The victim remaining naked is not a big question. The

pant of victim not seized by the police. Statement of PW2 and Madhuri are
different. None supported the PW2.

. Accused had no intentions. Accused admitted of opening the pant, as the

same was dirty.

The case is lodged against the accused only to harass him.

In the present case it should be remembered that incident occurred
Page |8

while the victim was about five/six years of age. As per the father of the victim, she
cannot express herself in any manner. The victim’s mental development is very slow.
The victim even cannot express her hunger or thirst. After attaining the age of 2 2

years, the victim stopped addressing her parents as “Ma” and “Baba”.

20. The PW2 is the mother of the victim and also the informant. She said
that while searching her victim daughter, she went to the house of accused and
noticed that her daughter is undressed and accused attempted to rape her.
Thereafter, she brought her daughter and told about the fact to neighbor Madhuri.
Thereafter, at 2.00 PM she told her husband (who returned from work) and villagers
Prakash Kishan, Dilip Tanti and others. They proposed to settle the matter but, no
meeting took place in the village. After 4-5 days she saw accused and she beaten
him and then accused went to the hospital of Tea Estate. She then informed the fact
in writing to the Manager of the Tea Estate.

The PW2 said that just after the incident, she informed the PW4 (Madhuri).
The PW4 on the other hand said that PW2 in fact informed her that accused opened
pant of victim. In cross examination PW4 said that later on she came to know that
accused opened the pant of the victim, as the same stained with mud. The PW4 said
that her family, families of informant and accused are neighbors and all members
visit each other's house.

The PW4's evidence is somewhat material in this case. The PW2 is specific
that she informed the incident, just after occurrence, to the PW4. The PW4 has not
corroborated to the fact that accused attempted to rape the victim. The PW2 has not
specified whether at the time of occurrence, the accused was wearing his clothes or
not. It is not clear why the PW2 did not narrated the complete facts to the PW4, if in
fact she informed the matter to PW4. Why the PW4 was not told by PW2 that
accused attempted to rape the victim?

The PW1 said that he was informed by the PW2 that accused was lifting the
victim in his lap and playing with her. The PW1 also did not mention that the PW2

informed about the attempt made by accused to rape the victim.

21. The FIR in connection with the occurrence filed after more than
1(one) month. In the FIR it is mentioned that the matter was placed before the

villagers for decision and hence, delay occurred in lodging the FIR.
Page |9

There are judgments of Hon’ble Higher Courts that delay in lodging FIR may
be caused due to various reasons. It is to be considered on the basis of facts in each
case. In case of incident involving sexual assault, there may occur delay in informing
the authority as it takes time for the family or victim to cope with the situation after
the trauma. However, the evidence is to be examined to see whether there is
sufficient reason for delay in lodging the FIR. As per FIR, the incident occurred on
02-06-2016. The FIR filed on 09-07-2016 i.e. after 1(one) month 7(seven) days of
incident. During examination, the PW2 (informant) said that after 4-5 days of
incident, she found accused and beaten him. Then accused went to the hospital.
Thereafter, she informed the matter to the Manager of the Tea Estate in writing. And
as no decision taken, she lodged the FIR. These shows that informant waited for
about 1(one) month to lodge FIR, after the matter is placed before the Manager of
the Tea Estate. The prosecution has not examined any witness to show that the
matter was informed to the Manager. It is clear that PW2 informed the Manager after
assaulting the accused. The PW2’s evidence shows that due to assault by her the
accused had to go to the hospital. The PW1 said that a quarrel took place between
the informant and accused after accused came from the hospital. The PW1 said that
he heard that accused held the victim while there was no cloth in her body. The
evidence of PW4 do not reflect about the PW2 assaulting the accused, which forced
the accused to go to the hospital. No villagers are examined by the prosecution to
show that just after the incident, they were approached by the PW2 for a settlement.
The other prosecution witnesses also did not mentioned that they were aware about
the PW2 approaching the villagers for a settlement.

The chronology of event laid by the PW2, there is scope for the defence to
argue that after assaulting the accused, he was implicated in an imaginary fact
allegedly occurred much before the assault of accused by the PW2. No evidence is
there to show that the PW2 approached the Manager of Tea Estate. The PW2 had
considered it fit to approach the authority(Garden Authority) just after 4-5 days of
incident, there is no reason apparent, why the delay for more than 1(one) month
occurred in informing the police.

Hence, the explanations for delay in informing the police cannot be accepted.

The question of delay is to be noted minutely because it gives the
complainant scope for developing and embellishing the facts. The FIR has not
mentioned about informant approaching the Manager of the Tea Estate. The FIR did

not mention about the informant assaulting the accused after 4/5 days of incident. It
Page |10

is clear that the informant filed the FIR after she assaulted the accused (as per her
own admission). The witnesses of the prosecution has not corroborate to the vital
parts of the allegations i.e accused attempted to rape the victim and the victim was

found without any clothes.

22. In view of the above discussions and reasons it is held that the
prosecution failed to prove the guilt of the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

Hence, the accused Ashok Tanti is acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.

23. The bail bonds shall remain in force for six months from today.

24. Copy of this judgment be sent to the learned District Magistrate,

Sonitpur, Tezpur as per provision of Section 365 of CrPC.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 24" day of
June, 2019.

(R Baruah)
Special Judge
Sonitpur,Tezpur.
Dictated and corrected by me.
(R Baruah)

Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |11

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Sri Suresh Tanti,

2.PW2 — Smti Manjita Karmakar (informant),
3.PW3 — Smti Dina Tanti,

4.PW4 — Smti Madhuri Karmakar &

5.PW5 — Sri Basanta Kr Borah(PW5), IO.

one examined by court as court witness, namely Sri Budhuwa Karmakar (CW1).

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

1.Nil.

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

1. Ext. 1 : Seizure list,
2. Ext. 2: Ejahar &
3. Ext. 3 : Sketch map.

(R Baruah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur,Tezpur.
