IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE
CUM-SPECIAL JUDGE | :::::::: DHUBRI

Present :- Shri J. Borah, AJS
Addl. Sessions Judge
Cum-Special Judge
Dhubri.

SPECIAL CASE NO.95 OF 2018
U/s.448/376 I.P.C
R/W Sec.4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act

State of Assam

Vs
Mohijul Seikh
bees Accused Person.
Date of Framing Charge :- 04-10-2018
Dates of Recording Evidence :-29-10-2018
12-11-2018
Date of Argument :- 16-11-2018
Date of Judgment :- 16-11-2018

Advocates Appeared :
For the State of Assam :- Shri S.C. Roy

Learned Addl.P.P.

For the Defence :- Shri |.U. Ahmed
Learned Advocate.

Jj} UD GM ENT

1. This case is under section 448/376 I.P.C R/W Sec.4 of
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, so, the name of
the victim is not mentioned here and she is hereinafter referred to
as 'X'.

Zs The prosecution case, in brief, is that Joymon Bewa, the
informant lodged an ejahar with the Superintendent of Police,
Dhubri on 14.5.015 informing that 'X' is the grand-daughter of
informant. In the month of January, 2015, the accused Mofijul

Contd.Page-2.
Seikh went to the house of informant. The said accused taking the
advantage of absence of other family members, gagged the
mouth of 'X' and committed rape on her. The said accused Mofijul
Seikh threatened 'X' not to divulge the said occurrence. 'X',
thereafter, became pregnant. When the accused namely Bahar Ali,
Moinuddin Seikh, Nur Alom and Monjuwara Bibi were informed
about the occurrence, they kept the accused Mofijul Seikh confined
somewhere.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against
the accused persons.
3. The Superintendent of Police, Dhubri received the ejahar
and forwarded the same to Dhubri Police Station to register a case
and to investigate the case.
4. The Dhubri Police Station received the ejahar and registered
a case vide Dhubri Police Station Case No.648/015 U/s.448/376/
294/506/34 I.P.C R/W Sec.4 of Protection of Children from Sexual
Offence Act. The case was investigated and having found prima
facie U/s.448/376 I.P.C R/W Sec.4 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offence Act against the accused Mofijul Seikh laid the
chargesheet before the court for trial.
5. The accused Mofijul Seikh appeared in the court of the chief
Judicial Magistrate, Dhubri and he was furnished copy. Learned
chief Judicial Magistrate having found the case U/s.448/376 I.P.C
R/W. Sec.4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence,
hereinafter called POCSO, committed to the court of Special Judge,
Dhubri.
6. The Special Judge, Dhubri transferred the case to this court
for trial.
7. The accused Mofijul Seikh, hereinafter called the accused,
appeared in this case. Charge was framed U/s.448/376 I.P.C R/W
Sec.4 of POCSO Act. The charge was read over and explained to
the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried. Contd.Page-3.
8. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against
the accused, examined 5 (five) witnesses, namely --

1. X/the victim PW-1

2. Joymon Bewa PW-2

3. Moidan Ali PW-3

4. Intaz Ali PW-4

5. Ayesha Bibi PW-5
9. Since there found no incriminating evidence adduced by the
prosecution witnesses against the accused, so, he is not examined
U/s.313 Cr.P.C.

10. Heard argument for both sides.
11. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :

(i) Whether the accused in the month of January, 2015 at
village Kuntirchar Part-Il under Dhubri Police Station committed
house trespass by entering into or unlawfully remaining in the
house of the informant with intent to commit rape on her grand-
daughter 'X' and thereby committed offence U/s.448 |.P.C.

(ii) Whether the accused in the month of January, 2015 at
village Kuntirchar  Part-Il under Dhubri- Police Station
committedrape on the grand-daughter of the informant 'X' and
there by committed offence U/s.376 I.P.C.

(iii) Whether the accused in the month of January, 2015 at
village Kuntirchar Part-Il under Dhubri Police Station committed
penetrative sexual assault on the minor grand-daughter of the
informant 'X' and thereby committed offence U/s.4 of POCSO Act.

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :

12. In this prosecution case, PW-1 'X' is the alleged victim, PW-2
Joymon Bewa is the informant, PW-3 Moidan Ali, PW-4 Intaz Ali and
PW-5 Ayesha Bibi are the independent witnesses.
13. Now let us see the evidence on record.

Contd.Page-4.
PW-1 'X' has stated in her evidence that Joymon Bewa, the
informant is her grandmother. She had love affair with the
accused. When she told her parent about her love affair with the
accused, her parents and family members offered a proposal to
the parents of the accused. But the parents of the accused did not
accept the proposal. At such, the case was lodged by her grand-
daughter. Later on, the accused married her and they are now
living as husband and wife. PW-1 has also stated that prior to the
occurrence, the accused had not performed any voluptous relation
with her. She gave her statement before the Magistrate, but the
said statement was as per instruction from other, Ext-1 is her
statement, Ext-1(1) is her signature.

In her cross, PW-1 has stated that she was 18 years at the

time of occurrence. She gave birth to a child. She has been
maintaining a coupled life with the accused.
14. PW-2 Joymon Bewa has stated in her evidence that 'X' is her
grand-daughter. There was love affair between 'X' and the
accused but the accused did not marry her for which she lodged
this case against the accused. She gave thumb impression on the
ejahar she lodged. The accused, later on, married her grand-
daughter 'X' and they are continuing marital life.

Cross examination of PW-2 was declined by the defence.

15. PW-3 Moidan Ali has stated in his evidence that he knows
both informant and the accused and also 'X'. There was love affair
between 'X' and the accused. 'X' became pregnant as a result of
their voluptous relation between them. When the accused refused
to marry 'X', the case was lodged against the accused. Later on,
both of them got married and they are maintaining marital life.
16. PW-4 Intaz Ali has stated in his evidence that he knows both
the informant and the accused who are now living together as
husband and wife.

Contd.Page-5.
17. PW-5 Ayesha Bibi @ Khatun has stated in her evidence that
he knows both the informant and the accused and also 'X'. There
was love affair between the accused and the 'X'. As a result of
their voluptous relation, 'X' became pregnant. The accused refused
to marry 'X'. At such, this case was lodged. Now the accused and
'X' got married and they are now maintaining conjugal life.

In her cross, PW-5 denied that 'X' did not become pregnant
as a result of voluptous relation between the accused and 'X'.
18. Thus, careful scrutiny of evidence of PW-1 to PW-5 shows
that PW-1 'X' is the alleged victim who has clearly stated in her
evidence that there was love affair between her and the accused.
When the accused refused to marry her, they lodged this case.
But the accused then married her and both of them maintaining a
coupled life. There is no evidence adduced by PW-1 that the
accused committed rape on her. The evidence of PW-1 is also
clear that she was above eighteen years old at the time of
occurrence. So, there was any sexual relation between two, then it
was consensual.
19. Same in the evidence of PW-2 Joymon Bewa. She has also
adduced evidence that when the accused refused to marry her
grand-daughter 'X', she lodged the case against the accused. But
the accused, thereafter, married 'X'. So, the evidence of PW-2 is
also not inculpatory against the accused.
20. The evidence of PW-3,4 and PW-5 is also same way. All of
them have clearly stated in their respective evidence that both the
accused and 'X' are now maintaining their conjugal life. PW-3,4
and PW-5 have adduced no incriminating evidence against the
accused.
21. Thus, prosecution evidence does not reflect that the
accused entered into the house of informant and committed
penetrative sexual assault on 'X' or there was forceful relation on

Contd.Page-6.
6

'X' by the accused. The prosecution evidence is not sufficient and
satisfactory to establish that the accused entered into the house
of the informant and committed sexual assault on 'X'. The
prosecution evidence is found dearth of merit. The prosecution,
thereby, has failed to prove it's case U/s.448/376 I.P.C R/W Sec.4
of POCSO Act against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
22. Held, the accused is not guilty U/s.448/376 I.P.C R/W Sec.4
of POCSO Act.
23. The accused is accordingly, acquitted and set at liberty. The
bail bond stands cancelled and the bailor is discharged from all
liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this 16th day
of November, 2018.
Transcribed & Typed by

Addl.Sessions Judge

Stenographer Cum-Special Judge
Court of the Special Judge Dhubri
Dhubri

APPENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses
PW-1 X/the victim
PW-2 Joymon Bewa
PW-3 Moidan Ali
PW-4  Intaz Ali
PW-5 Ayesha Bibi @ Khatun
Defence Witness :- NIL
Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext-1 Ejahar
Ext-2 Statement of X/informant.
Addl. Sessions Judge
Cum-Special Judge
Dhubri
