 

 

BONGAIGAON
Special (P) Case No. 21(BGN)/2017.
U/S 6 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Bongaigaon P.S Case No. 498/2017)

State of Assam
Vs.
Ismail Sheikh ....Accused.

PRESENT :- Sri Binod Kr Chetri,
Special Judge (under POCSO Act),

Bongaigaon.

Appearance :-.

 

For the State : Smti R. Choudhury, Special Public
Prosecutor.

For the accused: Sri K. Das, advocate for the accused.

Date of Argument: 12.03.2019.
Date of Judgment : 26.03.2019.

JUDGMENT AND ORDER
1. The factual matrix of the prosecution case, in short, is
that the informant Minasha Khatun lodged an ejahar alleging that the
accused on 26.6.2017 at about 10 A.M in the pretext of visiting Eco Park
at Bongaigaon picked up her daughter, aged 14 years from Bhowlaguri in
his red colour car and went to a kutcha road of Kajalgaon and inside the
car raped her and again taking her in a house at Kajalgaon raped her

second time against her will and dropped her at B.G.Colony.
 

 

(2)

2. FIR on the incident was lodged on 26.6.2017 by the
mother of the victim before the Officer Incharge, Dhaligaon Police
Station. On receipt of the FIR, the O/C, Dhaligaon Police Station,
registered a case being Dhaligaon Police Station Case No. 117/2017
under section 376 IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted
S.I. Chandradhar Uzir to investigate the case. As the place of occurrence
falls under Bongaigaon jurisdiction the case was registered at
Bongaigaon Police Station being no.498/2017 read with section 4 of
POCSO Act and S.I Dipak Kr Baisya was entrusted to investigate the
case. Accordingly, the Investigating Officer visited the place of
occurrence, recorded the statement of the witnesses and on completion of
investigation, laid charge-sheet against the accused Ismail Sheikh under
section 4 of POCSO Act.

2. On perusing police report and hearing both sides,
having found a prima facie case, charge under section 6 of POCSO Act
was framed against the accused. The accused pleaded innocence when

charge was read over and explained to him and claimed for trial.

Point for determination:-

Whether on 26.6.2007 at about 10.20 A.M at
Bhowlaguri under Bongaigaon police station
committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on
the victim child inside a maruti car at Salbagan and
thereafter in a house at Saljara and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section U/S

6 of POCSO Act ?

Contd....
ot
ec
s? a

pe

pw

 

:

ae

i

(3)
4, In this case, to bring home the charge against the
accused, prosecution has examined as many as 10 witnesses. Statement
of the accused was recorded U/S 313 CrPC in which, he denied all the
allegations levelled against him and pleaded innocence. Heard the

learned counsels of both sides.

Discussion, decision and reasons there of:-
5. In this case prosecution has examined as many as 11
witnesses (mentioned in Appendix I) to the judgment and out of them
relevant witnesses are PW 1 (victim), PW 8 (informant), PW 9 (doctor)

and PW 11 (Investigating Officer).

6. This case was registered on the FIR dated 26.6.2017
(Ext 5) of PW 8 alleging that on that day at about 10 A.M accused on the
pretext of taking the informant's daughter (PW 1) to visit Bongaigaon
Eco park took her in his vehicle at Kajalgaon and raped her daughter
inside the vehicle and from there took her to a house, where the accused

again raped her daughter aged about 14 years.

#s Contrary to her allegation in Ext 5, her evidence is
that on that day her daughter had to the Eco park with the accused and
seeing them in the park the village people caught hold of them and on
being asked by them she lodged the FIR against the accused alleging that
the accused has raped her daughter where as no such rape has taken place

upon her daughter aged about 19 years.

8. In her cross PW 8 stated that after this incident her
victim daughter has been married with the accused and presently they are

Contd...
 

(4)
living together. She also stated that prior to her daughter's marriage with

the accused, her daughter was married earlier with another person.

5, PW 1, the victim girl, deposed that on that. day at
about 10 A.M she had been to Bongaigaon Eco park with the accused
and the village people finding them in the park brought them to the
village and asked her mother to lodge the case. She has given her
statement before the Court on being produced by the Police and Ext 1 is

her statement.

10. ; In her cross she stated that she was earlier married
with another persons named Nawaz Ali with whom she has taken divorce
and that she is in love with the accused and going to marry him. She

gave her statement earlier on being tutored by the people.

i. PW 1 gave her evidence on 22.3.2018 and at that
time she was not married with the accused, whereas her informant
mother, PW 8 adduced evidence on 2.8.2018 and at that time she stated

about her daughter's marriage with the accused.

te. Both PW 1 and PW 8 has made a 'U' turn from what
they have alleged against the accused during investigation stage at the
time of giving evidence before the Court. If the fact that the accused has
proposed to marry PW 1 or that she has already married PW 1, as
revealed from the evidence of PW 1 and PW 8, these two witnesses will
naturally not implicate the accused while giving evidence before the
Court during trial.
Contd...
 

 

(5)
13. In the above background it is to be seen whether in
fact the alleged incident of rape did take place and the informant and

victim are deposing otherwise before the Court, either on threat or

inducement or otherwise.

14, First and foremost, PW 1 went on her own with the
accused in his car to Eco park. The allegation is that instead of taking to
Eco park the accused took her to some other place, raped her at two
places and then brought her and left her in front of her house. This is the
allegation in Ext 5 (FIR) and PW 1 in her statement U/S 164 CrP.C (Ext

1) has also made almost the same allegation against the accused.

iS. | In her earlier statement (Ext 1) PW 1 has also stated
that she was not knowing the accused earlier and that when the accused

took her, the accused disclosed his name as Ismail Sheikh.

16. The interesting part of the evidence of PW 1 and PW
8 is that PW 1 did not make any hue and cry while she was taken by the
accused in his car and these two places also, as mentioned in the FIR,
where the accused raped her against her will. Further interesting part is
that the accused brought her back and dropped her at B.G.Colony,
fromwhere PW 1 went to her house house. At that place also, after
getting down from the vehicle, PW 1 did not make any hue and cry and
silently went to her house. This conduct on the part of the victim PW 1

itself creates a doubt on the veracity of the allegation against the accused.

tr? Going further, the evidence of doctor (PW 9), it is
seen that PW 1 was examined on the very next day i.e on 27.6.2017 at
Contd....
 

(6)

12.30 P.M at JSB Civil Hospital Kajalgaon and during examination PW 9
did not find any sort of injury on the body of PW 1. There was no stain
of semen on her vagina or laceration thereon. Had the accused raped her
against her will there must have been some sort of injury on her body in
the ensuing scuffle, if in fact there was any such forceful rape by the
accused.

18. Coming to the age of the victim girl the medical
examination opined her age to be above 17 years and below 20 years.
There can be no variation of + 2 years as because the opinion is specific
that PW 1 was above 17 years and below 20 years. PW 1 herself while
giving evidence before the Court has mentioned her age as 19 years. At
the time of giving evidence there may be some other reason also for PW
1 to mention her age above 18 years. But the fact remains that she was
above 17 years on the date of alleged incident and below 20 years, which
supported the version of PW 1 that her age was 19 years when she

adduced evidence before the Court on 22.3.2018.

18, PW 11 (Investigating Officer) during investigation
vide seizure list (Ext 6), seized the 'Nikahnama' ( marriage certificate
dated 15.2.2017) of PW 1 with Nawaz Ali. That marriage certificate has

not been produced in evidence but PW 11 deposed of such seizure.

20. The only evidence appearing against the accused is
in the evidence of PW 2 and PW 4 to the extent that they heard from PW
1 that the accused took her in the vehicle from Madraji patty to Eco park
and took her towards Leela Gas agency and raped her there and
fromthere accused took her to his house and there also raped her and
Contd...
 

(7)
after that accused brought her and dropped her near her house at B.G.
Colony.

21. The evidence of PW 2 and PW 4 is hearsay and the
same not corroborated by the evidence of victim herself as because she
had deposed otherwise before the Court and the veracity of her allegation
has already been mentioned above. PW 3 simply heard accused taking
PW 1 in his vehicle. PW 5 don't know about the matter. PW 6 and PW 7

has not implicated the accused.

22. ' PW 10 was the initial Investigating Officer. When
he was at Dhaligaon Police Station he took the girl for medical
examination and got her statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. Ext 5 is the
FIR in this case and it was endorsed to him by O.C Dhaligaon Police

Station for investigation.

we It need to be mention here that this case was initially

registered as Dhaligaon Police Station case no.111/2017 U/S 376 IPC
read with section 4 of POCSO Act as the FIR (Ext 5) was lodged before
O.C Dhaligaon Police Station. During investigation it was revealed that
the alleged incident falls under the jurisdiction of Bongaigaon Police
Station and learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chirang transferred the
FIR vide order dated 30.6.2017 to learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Bongaigaon who vide order dated 5.7.2017 sent the FIR to O.C
Bongaigaon Police Station for doing the needful. Thereafter, the
investigation was done by PW 11 and on completion of investigation
submitted the charge sheet (Ext 8) against the accused U/S 4 of POCSO
Act.
 

(8)

24. From what have been discussed above, it is held that
prosecution has miserably failed to prove that the accused kidnapped or
taken away the victim girl against her wish and forcefully committed
rape on her and as such failed to establish the charge U/S 6 of the
POCSO Act or under the relevant provision of IPC against the accused.
Hence, the accused is acquitted of the charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act and
set at liberty forthwith.

2. Before parting with the judgment it is felt pertinent
to mention that the informant and the victim girl has made false
allegation against the accused for which the accused had to undergo

custody for about 3 % months from 4.7.2017 to 31.10.2017.

26. Given under my hand and the seal of this Court on

Special Judge
wabyiee.

2.
Dict(ted and corrected by me, Bongaies0

bas

(Binod Kr Chetri)

Se Judgeage,
’ engaizaods .

Contd...
(9)
APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:
PW 1 — Sahanara Khatun.

PW 2 —Lalchand Sheikh.

PW 3 — Ranjit Barman.

PW 4 — Nur Alam Seikh.

PW 5 — Ashutosh Gogoi.

PW 6 - Billal Hussain Seikh.

PW 7 — Narayan Debnath.

PW 8 — Minara Khatun.

PW 9- Dr Kukumoni Basumatary.
PW 10 —- SI, Chandradhar Uzir.
PW 11- SI Dipak Kr Baishya

Defence Witness:
Nil.

Documents Exhibited by Prosecution:
Ext-1 Statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

Ext-2 Medical report.

Ext-3 Seizure list.

Ext-4 Sketch map of the place of occurrence.
Ext-5 Ejahar/FIR.

Ext 6 Seizure list.

Ext 7 Seizure list.

 

Ext 8 Charge sheet.
Material Exhibited by prosecution:
Nil.

Defence Exhibit:

Nil. we
( Bin  Chetri )

Special Judge,
*

Ben gaigaOBe i
