 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,

Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 35 (M) of 2015

U/s 4 of the POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM —___haacaeesacseeceeeeeesenees Complainant.
-Versus -

Sri Mahendra Gogoi @ Sanjay

S/o- Sri Rama Kanta Gogoi

R/o- Inthem Gaon,

P.S- Pengaree

District- Tinsukia, ASSAM ok. eeeeeeeeeee tees eee Accused.
Appearance:

Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the State

R. K. Borthakur,
Advocat@  —__hiasaueveveueeueueees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 21/01/2019

Date of Judgment: 21/01/2019

U D GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1; The prosecution case revolves around an allegation of
sexual assault upon a minor girl, who was born on 20/05/2002.
It is alleged that one day in the month of June/July, 2015, when
the said minor girl was alone in the house the accused had
come there and asked her to bring him some water to his
stilted house, situated nearby. Infact, the accused had a tea
garden adjacent to the house of the victim girl and there he
had a stilted house, which was meant to keep eyes over
marauding wild animals. According to the request made by the
accused, the victim girl went to the stilted house and served
him water. Then the accused caught hold of the victim girl,
removed her wearing apparels and then committed sexual
intercourse with her. The accused gave the girl an amount of
Rs. 50/- and asked her not to tell anyone about those things.
The victim girl complied with the request of the accused and
did not tell her parents about what was done to her by the
accused. She continued to go to her school as_ usual.
Thereafter, on 3/4 occasions, the accused again had sexual
intercourse with her. Unfortunately, the matter somehow fell
into the ears of the parents of the victim girl. But, after that
the victim girl left her house and went to the house of her aunt
Anjali Gogoi, at Tingkhang. The parents of the victim girl had
followed her to Tingkhang and brought her back and on her
return home, she narrated everything to her parents.
Thereafter, the mother of the victim girl had lodged an ejahar
before police.

2. The parents of the victim girl had arranged a village
meeting. The accused attended the said meeting and he
denied before public that he had committed any such acts
upon the victim girl. The elder brother of the accused gave a
proposal of marriage between the accused and the victim girl,
but the parents of the girl did not agree to that.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

3. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed penetrative sexual

assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as thirteen
witnesses, including the Doctor, who had examined the victim
girl at the time of investigation and the Police Investigating
Officer. The defence plea is total denial. | have carefully gone
through the prosecution evidences.

5. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up
the evidence of the victim girl. She has stated in her evidence
that she never disclosed before anyone that she was sexually
assaulted by the accused on multiple occasions. The victim
girl has stated that her parents rebuked her after hearing
about those things. Therefore, she revolted and left her house
and went to the house of her aunt at Tingkhang.
6. Now, | shall take up the evidence of Janmoni Sonowal.
She is aged about 13 years. She is the daughter of the
younger brother of the father of the victim girl. She has stated
in her evidence that about three years ago, at about 12 noon,
she came out of the house to play games and therefore she
was searching for the victim girl. The victim girl has stated
that when she was searching for the victim girl, she found her
with the accused in a house, situated in the tea garden of the
accused. She has stated in her evidence that she had seen
the victim girl and the accused in a nude state and both of
them were in a compromising position. After seeing the
accused and the victim girl in that state, the witness Janmoni
Sonowal immediately returned home and informed her
mother. Then her mother informed the parents of the victim
girl about the said fact.

7. The witness Moni Sonowal is the mother of Janmoni
Sonowal. She has stated in her evidence that one day at
about 6 p, her daughter Janmoni told her that the victim girl
was sleeping with the accused in a house in the garden of the
accused. She has stated in her evidence that she immediately
informed the parents of the victim girl and they interrogated
the victim girl. She has stated in her evidence that initially the
victim was reluctant to say anything to her parents, but
subsequently she admitted that the accused had forcibly took
her to a house in the garden and he had forcible sexual act
upon her.

8. The witnesses Gulapi Sonowal, Pakhya Sonowal and
Prasanta Sonowal were present in the village meeting that was
convened by the parents of the victim girl. Gulapi Sonowal has
stated that the victim girl had alleged before public that the
accused had forcibly taken her to the garden and there he had
committed rape upon her. He has stated that in the village
meeting, the accused was also present, but she could not hear
what the accused had stated in the said meeting.

9. The witness Pakhya Sonowal has stated that the
accused was invited to the said meeting, but he did not come
and thereafter the accused had filed a case against this
witness and also implicated some other persons namely
Durlov Sonowal, Prasanta Sonowal and Ananta Sonowal,

alleging that they had assaulted the accused.

10. The witness Prasanta Sonowal has stated that for the
said meeting, the accused did not come. Prasanta Sonowal
has stated that in the said meeting, the brother of the accused
had come. Ghanashyam, the brother of the accused reportedly
gave a proposal that if the instance, as alleged by the victim
girl was true, then he was ready to solemnize a marriage
between the accused and the victim girl. Prasanta Sonowal
has stated in his evidence that the father of the victim girl did
not agree to the proposal, on the ground that the accused was
already married. The other non-official witnesses are hear say
witnesses. The Police Investigating Officer spoke about the
investigation.

11. On scrupulous perusal of the prosecution evidence, |
found that the victim girl though sexually assaulted on
multiple occasions, never disclosed about that fact to her
parents. The witness Janmoni Sonowal had seen the victim girl
and the accused in a nude state and she had also seen both of
them in a compromising position. The victim girl has stated
that when her parents first confronted her with those facts,
she had revolted and left her house and went to the house of
her aunt at Tingkhang. She disclosed the facts of the case to
her parents, after she was brought back from Tingkhang. The
accused had forcible sexual intercourse with the victim girl on
multiple occasions, but she did not disclose those facts to her
mother. When her parents first confronted her with those
facts, she had revolted. The witness Janmoni Sonowal had
found both the accused and the victim girl in a compromising
position. These facts are sufficient to hold that the victim girl
was a consenting party to the act of the accused.

12. | have reasons to hold that the evidence of the victim
girl fails to inspire confidence to the effect that the accused
had committed sexual assault upon her.

13. Here in this case, the mother of the victim girl has
claimed that her daughter was born on 22/05/2002 and the
victim girl herself has claimed that she was born on
20/05/2002. But, no documentary evidence has been filed to
that effect. Dr. Rani Gogoi, who had examined the victim girl
during the period of investigation has reported that as per
radiological examination, the age of the victim girl was found
to be above 14 years and below 18 years. So, at this stage, |
have to accept the evidence of the Doctor for determining the
age of the victim girl. It is a settled law that two years can be
added or subtracted from the age mentioned by the Doctor. It
goes to show that on the day of occurrence, the victim girl was
below 18 years of age, though she was above 14 years of age.

14. | have already stated herein before that the evidence of
the victim girl to the effect that the accused had committed
multiple penetrative sexual assault upon her, fails to inspire
confidence. | have also already stated herein before that the
victim girl was a consenting party to the act of the accused.
15. Therefore, | have reasons to hold that the prosecution
has miserably failed to prove the offence against the accused
beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

16. That being the position, the accused Sri Mahendra
Gogoi @ Sanjay is found not guilty and accordingly he is
acquitted from this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
21st day of January, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia

A P_ PEN DIX
PROSECUTION WITNESSES
1. PW1 - Dr. Rani Gogoi

2. PW2 - Smti Dulumoni Sonowal
8.

0,

PW3 -

. PW4 -

. PW5 -

PW6 -

. PW7 -

PW8 -

PW9 -

10.PW10 -

11.PW11 -

12.PW12 -

13.PW13-

Miss Pronamika Sonowal
Sri Durlove Sonowal
Smti Kunja Sonowal
Smti Gulap Sonowal
Smti Moni Sonowal

Smti Janmoni Sonowal
Sri Pakhya Sonowal

Sri Prasanta Sonowal
Smti Thusan Sonowal
Smti Swarna Boro

Sri Birakson Ramchiary, S.|

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

Ext.1-

Ext. 2-

Ext. 3-

Ext. 4 -

Ext. 5 -

Ext. 6-

Ext. 7-

Ext.8-

Ext. 9-

Medical report
Requisition of Dr. Rani Gogoi
Laboratory report

Radiological report

Ultra sonography report with plates
Ejahar

Seizure list

Statement of Smti Dulumoni Sonowal

Sketch map
10. Ext. 10- Charge sheet
11. M.Ext. 1- Birth certificate of victim
DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
