IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, MORIGAON
POCSO Case No. 25/2018

Present : Mr. P. Das
Special Judge, Morigaon.

State of Assam
-VS-
1) Sri Sanjay Verma

2) Sri Krishna Basak @ Krishna Kt. Basak

_— Accused
Date of Charge : 12.12.2018.
Date of Argument : 26.06.2019.
Date of Judgment : 29.06.2019.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State :- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the Accused :- Mr. P. Pator, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 17.07.2015 at about 10.00 AM, the
accused persons namely, Sanjay Verma and Krishna Basak @ Krishna Kt. Basak,
resident of village Bhuragaon under Morigaon District committed rape upon the niece
of the informant by way of inducement. It is further stated that since few months the
above named accused persons repeatedly committing sexual intercourse with the
niece of the informant without her consent. On 17.07.2015, the informant lodged a
case before Bhuragaon P.S and accordingly, the O.C. of Bhuragaon P.S. registered the
case vide Bhuragaon PS case No. 118/15 U/S 376 (f) IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO
Act, 2012.
2. After investigation of the case, charge sheet was filed against the accused.
Subsequently, vide order dated 12.12.2018, charge were framed against the accused
persons u/s 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The charge

upon being denied by the accused persons led to commencement of the trial.
3. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
Whether the accused persons Sanjay Verma and Krishna Basak @ Krishna Kt.

Basak are guilty of committing an offence punishable u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. Heard learned public prosecutor for the State and learned defence counsel for

 

the accused person. Perused the relevant materials on record.

5. Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012,
punishes the offence of penetrative sexual assault committed upon a child i.e. person

below 18 years.

6. In this case, the prosecutrix adduced her evidence as PW-1 and the
prosecution side also adduced evidence of 3 more witnesses including the informant.
After completion of recording the evidence of the PWs, the accused was subjected to
examination as warranted U/s 313 Cr.P.C. The accused declined to adduce defence
evidence. Considering the nature of the evidence adduced by the prosecutrix,
informant and two other independent witnesses and after hearing the learned Public
Prosecutor, the prosecution evidence was closed. PW-1 is the prosecutrix and she
Stated in her evidence that the informant was her Bor-deuta and that she knew the
accused Krishna Basak, but she did not know the other accused Sanjay Verma. She
further stated that the incident had taken place about four — five years back and at
that time she was aged 11 years. She further stated that her younger brother used to
work in the house of the accused Krishna Basak and in this connection sometimes she
used to visit their house. She further stated that on the day of the incident, she had

gone to the house of the said accused and then some neighbourhood boys told that
she had done something and beat her up and then lodged this case. She stated that
she was taken to the police station and her Bor-deuta was called to the police station.
That, subsequently her Bor-deuta lodged the case in the police station. She further
stated that the police had examined her and taken her to the Doctor for medical
examination and had also taken her before the Magistrate for recording her statement.
She proved the statement as Exhibit 1, where she stated that she had put her thumb
impression. In cross examination, the prosecutrix stated that the accused persons had
not committed any offence upon her and that on that day, no incident had taken place

upon her from the side of the accused persons.

7. PW-2 Samiruddin stated in his evidence that he was the informant of the case
and that the prosecutrix was his niece and that he knew the accused persons after the
incident. He proved as Exhibit 2, the ejahar lodged by him and his signature thereon
as Exhibit 2 (1). He stated that at the time of the incident, he was not present at the
place of occurrence and that later he was called to the police station and accordingly
he went and that at the police station, he found that some boys were writing the case
and were asking the prosecutrix. He further stated that the said boys told him to put
his signature and told him that the accused persons had done some bad act with the
prosecutrix and so they were brought to the police station. Accordingly, he put his
signature on the ejahar as the guardian of the prosecutrix since her father had expired
and thereafter, he went back to his house. He further stated in his evidence that the
police had examined him in connection with the case and asked him about his relation
with the prosecutrix whereupon he had stated that he was her uncle. He further stated
in his evidence that later he asked the prosecutrix and she told him that her younger
brother works in the house of the accused Krishna Basak and that sometimes she also
goes there. He further stated that the prosecutrix also told him that on the day of the
incident she had not gone to the house of the said accused. In cross-examination, the
informant stated that he put his signature on the ejahar upon being told by the boys

who were present in the police station.
8. PW-3 Habibur Rahman in his evidence has stated that on the day of the
incident there was some hue and cry at the charia/i and that the accused persons had
come there. He further stated that, he does not know anything else regarding the
incident. Similarly, PW-4 Ibrahim Ali also stated in his deposition that at the time of
incident he was in his shop and at that time upon hearing hue and cry, he came out of
his shop and saw a collection of persons and that he came to know that there was
some hue and cry over some girl.

Upon perusing the evidence of the above two witnesses, I find that the
testimony of these two witnesses is not helpful to the prosecution as they neither

throw light upon the incident nor implicate the accused persons.

9. Upon perusing and analyzing the remaining prosecution evidence, I find that
the prosecutrix has clearly stated that the accused persons have not committed any
offence against her and that day no incident had taken place upon her from the side of
the accused persons and thereby completely exonerated them. PW-2 Samiruddin, the
elder brother of the deceased father of the prosecutrix has also not implicated the
accused persons in his evidence. He has rather stated that upon going to the police
station, he put his signature upon being told by the boys present there. Though, he
stated that he was told by the boys that the accused persons had done some bad act
with the prosecutrix, but same is contrary to the evidence of the prosecutrix. The said
aspect of PW-2 cannot lead to any conclusion of the guilt of the accused persons. PW-
2 also stated that he put signature on the ejahar upon being told by the boys. PW-2
has also not stated anything regarding commission of any sexual offence upon the
prosecutrix or any other related offence. Thus, I find that the evidence of prosecutrix
and her uncle (PW-2) do not implicate the accused persons and the said evidence is
grossly inadequate to establish any guilt of the accused persons with regard to the

charges against them or any other minor penal section.

10. Therefore, on the basis of aforesaid evidence of the prosecutrix, the
ingredients of Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO)
Act, 2012, with which the accused persons have been charged with in this trial, are not

made out.

11. Consequently, the prosecution case fails due to lack of evidence and the
accused persons are entitled to be acquitted.

ORDER
12. On the basis of the evidence and relevant materials on record of the case, the
accused Sanjay Verma and Krishna Basak @ Krishna Kt. Basak stands acquitted. The
accused persons, if in detention, shall be set at liberty forthwith, if not wanted in any

other case.
13. Their bail bonds and sureties stand discharged.

14. A copy of this judgment and order shall be sent to the learned District
Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with Section 365 of the Cr.PC.

15. Given under my hand and seal on this the 29" day of June, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by me (P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
(P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witness
. PW-1 :- Prosecutrix.
. PW-2 :- Md. Samiruddin
. PW-3 :- Md. Habibur Rahman
. PW-4 :- Md. Ibrahim Ali
. Defence witness : Nil.

. Prosecution Exhibit :
. Ext.1 :- The statement of Prosecutrix recorded U/s 164 Cr. P.C.
. Ext.2 :- The ejahar.

. Defense witness : Nil.

D. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

AON KF wewrtrawn KF

(P Das)

Special Judge, Morigaon
POCSO Case No. 25/2018
29.06.2019:

Accused Sanjay Verma and Krishna Basak @
Krishna Kt. Basak are present along with learned defence
counsel.

The judgment, in separate sheet is ready and
pronounced in the open court. On the basis of the relevant
materials and evidence on record, the accused Sanjay
Verma and Krishna Basak @ Krishna Kt. Basak stands
acquitted. The accused persons, if in detention, shall be set

at liberty forthwith, if not wanted in any other case.

Their bail bonds and sureties stands discharged.

A copy of this judgment and order shall be sent to
the learned District Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with

section 365 Cr.P.C.

The instant case is disposed of on the aforesaid

terms.

Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
