Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/19 1

DISTRICT- BAKSA
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, BAKSA, MUSHALPUR

 

SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 29/19
(u/s 366 IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act2012)

State of Assam

-versus-

Santa Darji ........... Accused

Present- Smti. M.C. Bordoloi, M.A., L.L.B., (A.J.S.),
Special Judge, Baksa

Appearance:
Mr. Ranjit Chetri............. Public Prosecutor for the State
Tridib Sarma..........cceeeeee Advocate for the accused person
Date of charge: 04-07-19
Date of Evidence: 01-08-19, 19-09-19, 15-02-2020
Statement recorded on: 27-02-2020
Date of Argument: © 27-02-2020
Date of judgment: 28-02-2020
We JvoGMENT
ss $ UDGMENT
ws vo One Anowar Hussain, ASI at Barbari Police station lodged an
Sa ejahar with the said Police station on 26-05-19 alleging interalia that
ef accused Santa Darji on the 25° day of May 2019 at about 8 pm enticed

and kidnapped a minor girl and that the duo after being recovered by
the police at Nikashi, were handed over to Barbari Police station and
thereafter the instant ejahar was lodged.

Contd...
 

0
ore

oe

of

Ay witnesses and 1 Court witness.

Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/19 2

Upon receipt of the ejahar a case vide BBR PS. Case No. 44/19
u/s 366 IPC was registered and investigated upon.

Upon completion of investigation, charge sheet u/s 366 IPC r/w
section 4 of POCSO Act against accused Santa Darji was laid before the
Ld. Chief Judicial Magistrate, Baksa who having taken cognizance of the
offence issued summons to the accused to secure his attendance in
Court and on appearance of the accused serviced copies of the case to
the accused in compliance of the provisions of section 207 CrPC and
thereafter vide order dated 20-06-19 committed the case record to the
Court of Hon'ble Sessions Judge, Baksa, Mushalpur with due notice to
the Id. Public prosecutor, Baksa(P.P. for short hereinafter).

(The requirement of committal of the case though not required
under law for the cases under POCSO Act, yet the Ld. CJM, Baksa had
resorted to the exercise).

On receipt of the case record on committal, Hon’bie Sessions
Judge, Baksa registered the same as the instant Special Case and on
production of the accused from judicial custody, having found prima-
facie materials u/s 366 A IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Act, framed
charge u/s 366 A IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act against accused
Santa Darji vide order dated 04-07-19. The charge so framed, on being
read over and explained to the accused, he pleaded not guilty and
claimed trial. Thereafter the accused was enlarged on bail and faced
trial during his enlargement .

Prosecution in order to prove its case examined as many as 3

Defence side cross examined all the Pws and also the Court
witness.

The statement of the accused u/s 313 CrPC was recorded and
kept in the C/R. Accused in his statement averred that the victim girl
was his friend and that she was crying on the fateful day and had
asked for shelter which he provided at his sister’s place. Accused
stated that he resides at Goalpara and had come to his sister’s place
on the fateful day for a visit and the victim girl being his friend as well

Contd...
Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/19 3

   
 

as his sister’s neighbour he offered to help her when she asked for the

 

ae vi same, consequent to her discord with her mother. The accused also
OMe stated that rumour was aloft, in the meanwhile that he had kidnapped
the victim girl, for which he himself went to the police station for his
security. Accused pleaded complete innocence.

The defence plea is that of total denial of guilt.

ARGUMENTS

Heard the arguments advanced by the learned counsels of both
sides.

Learned P.P. Baksa submits that Court shall pass Judgment/orders
as deem fit after perusal of the case record in its entirety.

Learned defence counsel submits that accused is innocent and
the victim girl on her own accord had taken refuge at the accused’s
sister’s house after some dispute with her mother and the accused had
been entangled in the case for no fault of his. Ld. Counsel prays for
acquittal of the accused.

Perused the case record.

The point for determination that has surfaced in the instant case
is as follows:

Point for determination:
1. Whether on the 25" day of May, 2019 at about 8 p.m. the
50 accused induced the victim girl under the age of 18 years to go
A roe ae from her home with the intent that she may be forced or
ge we seduced to illicit intercourse with another person and thereby
oO” committed offence punishable under section 366-A IPC. ?
2. Whether the accused on 25-05-19 committed penetrative
sexual assault on the victim girl?

My decision on the above points for determination along with
reasons is given hereinunder.
Discussion, Decision and reasons there for:

To address the points for determination so framed, it will be
necessary to peruse the evidence on record and | proceed to do so.

Contd...
ae

 

gr?

eS
oe

Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/19 4

PW-1 the informant of the instant case deposed that he was
posted at Barbari PS. at the relevant time and that on 25-05-19 the
accused kidnapped the victim girl from her house and the police
apprehended them at Nikashi and handed them over to Barbari P.S.
and since the parents of the victim girl did not lodge any FIR, he
submitted the same which was, received and registered at the police
station vide Barbari P.S. Case No. 44/19 u/s 366 IPC.

PW1 identified the ejahar lodged by him as Ext. 1 and his
signature thereon as Ext. 1(1).

When put to cross examination PW1 disclosed that he do not
have the first hand knowledge of the occurrence and he learnt about
the occurrence from the then O/C of the Barbari P.S..

PW2-Dipali Kalita the mother of the victim deposed that accused
at the relevant time had come for a visit to the house of her neighbour
who was the accused’s brother-in-law and that on the fateful day the
victim girl was talking with the accused and did not respond to her calls
to return home, consequent to which she slapped her victim daughter
whereupon her daughter became adamant and refused to return home
and took shelter in the house of her relative. PW2 further stated that in
the mean time rumour made rounds that the victim girl had eloped
with the accused, fearing consequences, the duo surrendered before
the Nikashi Police, who handed them over to Barbari Police Station and
therefrom she took custody of her victim child. PW2 stated that the
police caused her victim child’s medical examination and the recording
of her statement in court. She deposed that the victim girl was 14
years of age at the time of occurrence.

In her cross examination she clarified that the ejahar contained
false allegations against the accused person.

CW1 the victim(name withheld) deposed that he had known the
accused much prior to the occurrence as the accused used to visit her
neighbour who was the accused’s relatives and that on the fateful day
at about 4 pm she was talking to the accused on the road and that her
brother reckoned her to return home but she did not pay heed,

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/19 5

whereupon her mother came and gave her slaps. CW1 went on to state
that out of fear, she did not return home and instead took shelter in the

 

house of her relative and on the next day she went with the accused to
Nikashi police out post and therefrom she was brought to the Barbari
Police Station. CW1 stated further that police caused her medical
examination and also caused her statement to be recorded in Court.
CW1 identified her medical examination report as Ext. 2 and her
signature thereon as Ext. 2(1) and her statement recorded in Court as
Ext. 3 and her signatures thereon as Ext. 3(1) and Ext. 3(2).

In her cross examination she clarified that she had the
apprehension that the local public would assault her for which she went
to the house of the accused’s relative.

PW3-Nilovjyoti Nath is the Investigating Officer of the instant
case. He deposed that on being endorsed, he investigated the case
and during investigation he visited the place of occurrence, traced the
sketch map of the place of occurrence caused the victim’s medical
examination and caused her statement to be recorded in Court,
collected the medical examination report of the victim, arrested the
victim etc. PW3 submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 366
IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act. PW3 identified the sketch map of
the place of occurrence as Ext. 3(A) the charge sheet as Ext. 4 and his

2 J signatures on the aforesaid exhibits as Ext. 3(A)(1) and Ext. 4(1)
7a respectively. PW3 also identified the victim’s Xray report collected by
4 ro him as Ext. 5.

| oe During cross examination he denied the defence suggestion that

he submitted the charge sheet against the accused without any basis.

This is the evidence available on record.

None of the prosecution witness supported the prosecution
version. The victim and her mother negated the alleged occurrence in
its entirety. Both the victim(CW1 ) and her mother(PW2) deposed in
respect of a mother-daughter discord consequent to which the victim
took shelter in a different house. It is not forthcoming in the evidence
that the accused induced or enticed the victim girl to accompany him

Contd...
 

 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/19 6

or to abandon the lawful guardianship of her parents. It is also not
forthcoming, in the evidence, that the accused had solicited to marry
the victim girl. The charge u/s 366-A IPC against the accused fails thus.

Again the evidence on record do not disclose that the accused
had made any sexual assault or sexual intercourse with the victim girl.
The ingredients of section 4 of the POCSO Act do not find attraction
herein.

Prosecution has failed to bring home the charge u/s 366-A IPC
r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubt.

The points for determination stands answered in the negative
accordingly.

In the facts and circumstances of the case, no compensation is
awarded to the victim girl.

Order
In the light of the above discussions, accused Santa Darji is
acquitted of the charges u/s 366-A IPC R/W Section 4 of the POCSO Act
and set at liberty forthwith.
The bail bond of the accused person shall remain in force for a
period of 6 months with effect from today in view of the provisions of
Section 437-A Cr.PC.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on the 28 day of

February, 2020.
Bsstoles 2p. rons

(Smti. M.C. Bordologpecial Judge
Baksa, Mushalpur

Special Judge, Baksa, Mushalpur

Dictated and corrected by me

RRO
(Smti. M.C. boron Judge
Special Judge, Baksa, PakstaMuphatpur

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 29/19

APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW1
PW2
PW3

Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1
Ext.1(1)
Ext.2
Ext.2(1)
Ext.3
Ext.3(1) and Ext. 3(2)
Ext. 3(A)
Ext.3(A)(1)
Ext.4
Ext.4(1)
Ext.5

Defence witness:

Material exhibits:

Court witness:
CWl1

Anowar Hussain
Dipali Kalita
Nilovjyoti Nath

FIR.

Signature of Anowar Hussain
Medical report of the victim
Signature of victim
Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC
Signatures of victim

Sketch map of the P.O.
Signature of Nilovjyoti Nath
Charge Sheet

Signature of Nilovjyoti Nath
X-ray report of the victim
Nil.

Nil

victim(name withheld)

* 2¢fa/200
(Smti. M.C. nofdorenal¥ ge

Special Judge, Baks& far Muspaleur

Contd...
