IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, BAJALI,
PATHSALA

Spl. POCSO Case No. 11 of 2018
U/S - Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

State
- Versus -

Rinku Kalita
: Accused person.

Present :

Sri L.K. Saikia, AJS.
Additional Sessions Judge, Bajali, Pathsala.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Smti. Dhira Devi Ld. Addl. P. P.
For the accused persons ‘Sri Dipak Das. Ld. Advocate.
Dates of recording evidences : 02/07/2019.

Date of recording statements u/s 313 Cr.P.C. : 07/08/2019.

Date of Argument : 07/08/2019.

Date of Judgment : 16/08/2019.

J] UDGMENT

dns The prosecution case in brief, is that, one Arup Roy lodged
an ejahar on 17/05/2018 with the In-Charge, Sarupeta Police Out Post
alleging, inter-alia, that on 16/05/2018 at about 8 pm his sister aged
about 14 years went to attend natural call then accused taking the
advantage of absence of any person in the house gagged her mouth,
touched her body and tried to commit bad act. As and when the victim
made hue and cry the accused fled away from there and thereafter the
victim went out from the house and narrated about the incident to
Anup Roy. Hence, this case.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, Sarupeta OP registered a GD
Entry No. 406 dated 15/05/2018 and forwarded the same _ to
Patacharkuchi Police Station to register a case under proper section of
law and accordingly it was registered as Patacharkuchi P. S. Case No.
307/18 u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

3. During investigation police visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statements of witnesses including the victim girl, sent her
for medical examination, produced her before the Court wherein the
Ld. Magistrate recorded her u/s 164 Cr.P.C, arrested the accused person
and forwarded him to the court and after completion of investigation,
having been found prima-facie case, the I/O sent up the accused for
trial by filing charge sheet u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

4. The accused was produced from jail hajot for trial and the
copies were furnished to him. After hearing both the parties, framed
charge under section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and the accusation of
charge was read over and explained to him, to which he pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined
altogether 2 (two) PWs including’ victim, informant and I/O. The
defence plea is of total denial. The accused person was examined u/s
313 of Cr. P. C. wherein he denied all such allegations levelled against
him by the prosecution witnesses. The defence side has not adduced
any defence evidence.

6. Heard argument of learned Addl. P. P. and the learned
defence counsel. Perused the record.

ya POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person on 16/05/2018 at village
Siyalmari (Pashimchupa) under Patacharkuchi P.S. of district
Barpeta, while the victim was went to toilet, then the accused
person took her forcefully and committed penetrative sexual
assault and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012?
Evidence of witnesses

8. PW - 1 Arup Roy, the informant in this case deposed that
on 16/05/2018 at about 8.30 pm the incident took place. At that time
she was reading in class IX at Padmasri Nalini Bala Devi Girls High
School, Singimari and her age was about 14 to 15 years. At the time of
happening of the incident the father of the victim was not at home, he
was in his working place in Gujrat. It is also stated that he has a shop
at Puthimari Bazar and on the day of incident he was in his shop. The
victim is living with them at their house since her mother had expired.
On that day at about 8.30 pm while victim was going to her parents
house from their house then Rinku Kalita and Sonmani Kalita
abstracted her on the way and facing the situation she raised hue and
cry. Hearing about her hue and cry nearby villagers came to her and
then his wife ranged him and told him about the incident. Having got
the information from his wife immediately he came to his house. On
the next day at about 8.30 am he filed the FIR.

In cross-examination, PW 1 stated that he has lodged the
FIR due to misunderstanding of a fact of the victim. He does not have
any objection if the Court acquitted the accused person.

9. PW - 2 Anasmita Roy victim of this case has deposed that
on 16/05/2018 at about 8.30 pm while she was going to her house from
the house of her uncle and on the way Sonmani Kalita and Rinku Kalita
abstracted her to going. Then she raised hue and cry and hearing her
hue and cry nearby villagers came to her. Thereafter her brother Anup
Roy also arrived near to her. On the next day morning her brother
lodged the FIR and after lodging the FIR police recorded her statement,
took her to FAAMCH, Barpeta for Medical examination and after
completion of medical examination police produced her before the
court and in the Court magistrate has recorded her statement. Ext. 2 is
her statement and Ext. 2(i) is her signature. Police has seized her
wearing clothes vide seizure list Ext. 3.

In cross-examination, PW 2 stated that while police
interrogated her at that time they were in police uniform even police
were wearing uniform while produced her before the magistrate in the
Court. She stated before the Magistrate as instructed and tutored by
police. When she saw the two boys on the road she was afraid so, she
raised hue and cry but the said two boys did not abstract her way of
going even they did not say anything that she should not go. Due to
misunderstanding of fact her brother lodged the FIR in the police
station.

Discussions, Decision, and Reasons thereof

 

11. To arrive at a judicial decision, let me considered what the
witnesses have stated. Also perused the case record and gone through
the provision of law.

12. On meticulous scrutiny of the case record as well as the
evidence of the witnesses it comes to light that the instant case has
been filed due to misunderstanding of a fact. PW 1 stated that he had
not seen any incident and he has got no any objection if the accused
person would be acquitted from this case. PW 2 the victim has deposed
that on the day of incident on seeing the two boys in the dark night
She afraid and made hue and cry. The said two boys did not do
anything to her. Except the incident of afraiding nothing had happened
with her. PW 1 also specifically stated that she narrated before the
Magistrate while her statement was recorded as tutored by the police.

13. From the above evidence of witnesses and considering
the facts and circumstances of this case it becomes crystal clear that
nothing had happened with the victim as stated in the FIR and
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. The case has been filed due to
misunderstanding of the fact.

14. In view of above, it can be safely concluded that the
prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused person as
alleged.

15. Accordingly, the accused Rinku Kalita is acquitted of the
offence charged u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and set him at liberty
forthwith.
16. A copy of this judgment and order be given to the the
District Magistrate, Barpeta .
17. The Spl. POCSO Case is disposed of accordingly.

18. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court
in presence of both the parties and | put my hand and seal of this Court

on this 16th day of August, 2019.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Dictated & Corrected
by me

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Dictation taken and transcribed
by me.
(Alakesh Das, Steno)
APPENDIX :-

Oral evidences :-
PW-1 Sri Arup Roy .
PW-2 Anasmita Roy

Documentary evidence :-

Ext.-1. Ejahar
Ext.-2 Statement of victim
Ext. - Seizure list

Defence evidence.

Nil.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
