1
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 13 OF 2017

Under Section 376 |.P.C. Read with
section 4 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012

Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A,J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-versus-
Khanindra Nath .... Accused.
APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Mr. A. Kayem, learned P.P.
For the accused : Mr. B.Roy, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 05-09-2017 & 12-02-2018
Argument heard on : 12-02-2018

Judgment delivered on : 12-02-2018

JUDGMENT

l. The prosecution case in brief, is that on 27-07-2016 one Bhanita
Nath lodged an FIR alleging that about 2 % months ago one day at
about 11.00 AM, she had gone to the shop of accused Khanindra Nath
to purchase some articles. Then taking the advantage of absence of
other persons the accused person dragged her inside his shop by
gagging her mouth and made cohabitation with her. He had threatened
that if she disclose the matter then her brother and father would be
killed. Now she is carrying 2 months pregnancy. At the time of
occurrence she was aged about 15 years.

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against accused Khanindra Nath under section 4 of POCSO
Act,2012.

3. Accordingly the accused person appeared before this court,
copies are furnished to him and after hearing both the parties charges
are framed against the accused person under section 376IPC read with
section 4 of POCSO Act. Charges were read over and clearly explained
to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed for
trial.

4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined as many as
three witnesses including the medical officer. Examination of the
accused person under section 313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.

5 Points for determination:-

Whether the accused person prior to 2 ¥% months from the date
of filing FIR on 28-07-2016 at about 11.00 A.M. at village Uttar
Bherbheri, within the jurisdiction of Sorbhog P.S.,District Barpeta,
committed rape on informant-victim Bhanita Nath, aged about 15 years,
daughter of Manendra Nath by committing penetrative sexual assault
on her ?

Decision and reasons thereof:

6. The allegation as narrated in the FIR is that the accused person
committed rape on the victim who was aged about 15 years at the time
of occurrence. The victim herself lodged the FIR after 2 % months of the
occurrence. At the time of lodging the FIR she was carrying 2 months
pregnancy.

7. PW1 the medical officer who examined her on 28-07-2016 has
opined that on the date of occurrence her age was above 14 years and
below 16 years and she was pregnant for 15 weeks 5 days.

But the victim who is examined as PW2 has not supported the
case of the FIR. She has deposed that on the date of occurrence at
about 11.00 AM she had gone to the shop of the accused. Relating to
the purchasing of some articles the accused made an altercation with
her. At that time many other persons were present in that shop. Those
persons asked her to file a case against the accused person. Then she
filed the case. She made the statement before the police also.

In her cross examination she has stated that the FIR was written
by somebody else and she put her signature. She does not know what is
3

written in the FIR. No occurrence took place with the accused person.
8. The father of the victim Manendra Nath as PW3 has deposed that
about 2 years ago a quarrel took place in between accused and the
victim in the shop of the accused. Then the neighboring people asked
the victim to file the case and accordingly she lodged the FIR. But later
on the village people amicably settled the matter. So they are now not
willing to proceed the case.

in his crossed examination he has stated that he has no objection
if the accused is acquitted. After 2 % months of the occurrence the
victim lodged the FIR. He does not know about the occurrence.
9. Except these three witnesses prosecution has not examined any
other witness to succeed in the case. In this case PW2 the victim who is
also the informant of this case is the vital witness. But she has not
supported the case of the FIR. She has clearly stated that no such
occurrence took place with the accused. She has stated that only an
altercation took place in between her and the accused person in the
shop of the accused. She has not made a single whisper regarding the
commission of rape by the accused person on her.

10. Under such circumstances, it is clear that the prosecution has
miserably failed to prove any guilt against the accused person.
Therefore the accused person is acquitted and set at liberty.

Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
extended for another period of six months from the date of this
judgment under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

11. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati High
Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365
Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 12th day of

Feb,2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.
Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
APPENDIX

(A)Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1
Ext.1(1)
Ext.2
Ext.2(1)
Ext.3
Ext.3(1)
Ext.3(2)

: Medical Report

: Signature of Dr. Anima Boro.

: Ejahar

: Signature of Sri Bhanita Nath

: Statement of victim under Section 164 CrPC
: Signature of Sri Bhanita Nath

: Signature of Sri Bhanita Nath

B)Defence Exhibits:Nil.

D)Court Exhibits:Nil.

(
(C)Exhibits produced by witnesses:Nil.
(
(

E)Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1

P.W.2
P.W.3

: Dr. Anima Boro, Lady M/O at FAA Medical College &

Hospital, Barpeta

: Ms Bhanita Nath
: Sri Manendra Nath

(F)Defence witnesses:Nil.

(G)Court witnesses:Nil.

Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta
