HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SESSIONS CASE

District :- Goalpara.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE AT GOALPARA.

Present:- Sri S. Hazarika, A./.S.
Special Judge,
Goalpara.

Special Case No. 28/2019.
U/s.366(A)of the IPC R/W Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

State -vs-

1. Imdadul Hoque

weeeeeees Accused.
Ld. Advocates appeared:-
For the State :-Sri N. K. Nath, Addl. Public prosecutor.
For the accused __:-Mr. W.Ali,Advocate.
Date of evidence — :-26/09/2019
Date of argument :- 26/09/2019
Date of judgment :- 30/09/2019
UDGMENT
1. The prosecution story in brief is that an FIR has been

lodged by one Mobarak Ali alleging inter alia that on 24.04.2019 at
about 7:00 P.M. the accused kidnapped his minor daughter aged
about 17 years 9 months. After repeated searches she could not be
recovered and accordingly, he prayed for taking necessary action.
2. On receipt of the FIR O/C , Dudhnoi P.S. registered the
case U/S.366(A) I.P.C. and later on, section 4 of the POCSO Act was
addeded. During the courses of his evidence he seized one Birth
Certificate. The victim was recovered and her statement was
recorded U/S.164 Cr. P.C. through the Court. Medical Examination of
the victim was done. The witnesses were examined. After completion
of investigation submitted Charge Sheet U/S.366(A)/376 of I.P.C.
read with section 4 of the POCSO Act.

Bis Accused faced trial. The copies of relevant documents
were furnished. Upon hearing both parties this Court framed charges
U/S.366(A) of IPC R/W Section 4 of the POCSO Act. The contents of
the charge was read over and explained to which, the accused,
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE :-

i) Whether the accused on 24/04/2019 at about 7:00
P.M. kidnapped the victim who was a minor girl with intent to have

illicit intercourse with her ?

ii) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual

assault upon the victim?

5. In the instant case the prosecution side examined two
witnesses and thereafter, the statement of the accused was
recorded U/S.313 of Cr.P.C. wherein the accused pleaded not guilty
and denied the circumstances against him.

 

6. DISCUSSIONS DECISIONS AND REASONS
THEREFORE.
7. In the instant case the prosecution examined two

witnesses. Among the witnesses PW 1 is the informant and PW2 is
the victim of the alleged incident.

8. In order to prove the charges against the accused the
prosecution is required to prove that the victim is a minor girl who

2
was induced or kidnapped by the accused and thereafter had sexual
penetrative assault upon her .

9. PW1 is the informant who stated that at the time of
incident his daughter was at about 19 years. The incident occurred
five months earlier. His daughter went out and she was kidnapped.
Later on, he lodged the F.I.R. The Police recovered her daughter and
give zimma to him. Ext.1 is the FIR.

In his FIR the informant stated that his daughter was a
minor girl aged about 17 years 9 months but in his evidence he
stated that his daughter was a major girl aged about 19 years at the
time of the occurrence. Further, in his evidence stated that his
daughter went out with the accused and later on, she was recovered
by Police. The evidence of the witness remained silent as to inducing
his daughter to go with the accused or forcefully kidnapped the
daughter of the informant. Therefore, the evidence of the witness
could not implicate the accused having committed the offence.

10. PW2 is the star witness of the case who stated that five
months earlier she went with the accused and stayed in the house of
his sister at Guwahati. She further alleged that the FIR was lodged
by his father due to misunderstanding. The Police recovered her
from Guwhati and she gave her statement in the Court. Ext.2 is her
statement.

The evidence of the victim shows that she is 19 years
old at the time of the occurrence and therefore, she was not a minor
at the time of occurrence. She further remained silent that the
accused had kidnapped her or forcefully taken her to Guwahati
rather, she stated that she went with the accused out of her own
free will. The witness remained silent that the accused had
committed any bad things with her. Thus, the victim herself did not
support the prosecution case. Without her evidence, the prosecution
case cannot stand. In view of the above, the prosecution has failed
to prove that the accused had committed the offences for which he
is charged with . In the result, the accused deserved to be acquitted
and accordingly, he is acquitted.
11. The bail bond of the accused stands cancelled after six

months.

12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 30%
day of September, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by:-

( Sri S. Hazarika, AJS,)
(Sanjay Hazarika, A/S) Special Judge, Goalpara.

Special Judge, Goalpara.

Typed by: Jajneswar Nr. Deb, Stenographer, Goalpara Court.
APPENDIX Sessions : 24/2018.

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW1-Mubarak Ali(informant)

Pw2-Prosecutrix.
DEFENCE WITNESS :-

NIL

COURT WITNESS :-

NIL.

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :-

Ext.1-Ezahar
Ext.2-164 Statment.

DEFENCE EXHIBITS :-
NIL

COURT EXHIBITS :-
NIL

( S. Hazarika, AJS)
Special Judge,Goalpara.
