IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE NAGAON.
Present- A. Rahman, LL.M, AJS

Special (POCSO ) case No- 63(N) / 2018.
U/S- 6 of the POCSO Act.

Parties -

-VS-

Jahirul Islam

S/O- Nu Islam (gaon burah)

Village- No-2 Kandulimari.

PS- Dhing.

Charge framed on - 6-8-2018.
Evidence recorded on - 15-11-2018, 11-1-2019.
Argument heard on - 11-1-2019.
Judgment delivered on - 11-1-2019.

Appearance -
For the prosecution- Mr. M.J. Neog , learned special prosecutor.

For the defence - Mr. H. Kabir, learned Advocate.

J U D G M E N T

This case arose out of Dhing PS case No-155/2018 registered under
section -6 of the POCSO Act.

The story of the prosecution case , in brief is that complainant , Kamala
(actual name withheld) village No-2 Kandulimari , on 18-4-2018 lodged a
written ejeahr with the officer -in charge of Dhing police station alleging
that on 11-4-2018 , during the day time , while she went out of her house
for attending NRC hearing, accused Jahirul taking advantage of her
absence and the fact that her husband is a physically and mentally
challenged person, committed rape on her fifteen years- old daughter

( Miss X) after threatening her with dire consequence. Her neighbours
having witnessed the occurrence disclosed it to her soon after she
returned home. When she asked her victim daughter, she stated her the
entire occurrence in details and also stated that the accused had
criminally intimidated her if she disclosed the occurrence to others.

Acting upon the said ejehar from the complainant, the officer in charge of
Dhing police station registered the aforementioned case and put the
criminal investigation in to motion.

During the investigation, police visited the place of occurrence, recorded
the statement of the witnesses including the victim child. She was also
produced before the learned Magistrate for recording her statement U/S-
164 crpc. Her medical examination was also done.

The accused was arrested and forwarded to the court with a prayer for
sending him to judicial custody.

At the conclusion of investigation, police officer collected medical
examinations report of the victim girl and laid charge sheet against the
accused U/S-6 of the POCSO Act.

The record of the case was transferred by Hon'ble Sessions Judge on 31-
7-2018 to this court for trial.

Upon production of the accused before this court, both sides were heard.
After considering the materials on record, charge U/S-5 of the POCSO Act
was framed against him.

The charge was then read over and explained to the accused to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

During the camera trial, complainant and the victim child were examined
as PW-1 and PW-2 respectively. Scrutinising the evidence of the PW-2 who
is the star witness of the prosecution, examination of further prosecution
was closed.

The accused was examined U/S-313CRPC. The defence plea is of total
denial of the prosecution allegation. He has pleaded in view of land
dispute, the case was lodged against him. The defence led no evidence.

| have heard argument submitted by Mr. M.J. Neog , learned special
prosecutor and Mr. H. Kabir learned counsel for the defence.

Now the point for determination is as follows-

Whether the accused , on 11-4-2018 and prior to , committed penetrative
sexual assault upon victim “PW-2” and as such liable to punished U/S-4 of
the POCSO Act?
DISCUSSION & DECISION WITH REASONS THEREOF :-

Complainant Kamala was examined as PW-1. Prosecutrix Miss-“X”, was
examined as PW-2.

It is clear from the FIR that PW-1 is the reported witness. She heard the
occurrence form her neighbours as well as from her daughter-PW-2.

Now let us see the relevant portions of evidence of the said two
witnesses.

The evidence of PW-1 was recorded on 15" November 2018. She has
deposed that about seven/eight months back, on the relevant day of
occurrence, she went out for attending NRC( National Register of Citizens
updating process) hearing and her husband who is deaf and dumb was
also not at home. Her daughter PW-2 was alone at her house. As soon as
she returned home, her neighbour Mojila stated to her that Jahirul
(accused) had visited her house in her absence. Then she asked her
daughter PW-2 regarding the matter, she initially hesitate to disclose but
subsequently stated Jahirul had come and spending a few minutes, he
went away.

PW-1 further stated that after a few days, she lodged the case which
police registered. That Father of accused Jahirul is the village head-man
who asked her that the case should be withdrawn as they being
neighbour would have to live peacefully. That police during investigation,
got examined her daughter medically. She was also produced before the
Magistrate for recording her statement.

During cross examination, she replied that accused Jahirul used to visit
her house prior to the occurrence. PW-1 also stated on being asked
whether Jahirul had done bad work with her , PW-2 stated in the negative.

PW-2 being the prosecutrix is the star-witness of the prosecution. Her
evidence was recorded in camera on 11" Day of January 2019.

She has testified that about 9° months back , on the relevant day , her
mother PW-1 went to attend NRC hearing at Dhing. Her father went out
for work and her brother and sister went to school. She was alone at the
house. That accused Jahirul , came to their house and rebuked her telling
that she would have to leave the land. He also wanted to assault her for
which she raised cry. Hearing her cry , neighbours came and he fled
away. She has confirmed that Ext-1 is her statement before the
Magistrate but she gave her statement as instructed by police. After the
incidence, there was a village sitting where Nurul Islam, being the father
as well as Gaonburah ( village head-man) was present. She has clearly
stated at the relevant time, she was crying as such her mother (PW-1)
lodged ejehar suspecting that the accused might do bad work with her.

In her cross examination, she has clearly and candidly stated that the
accused did not do bad work with her.
PW-2 being the prosecutrix does not support the prosecution allegations
as mentioned in the FIR. PW-2 has proved Ext-1 is her statement
recorded U/S-164crpc but stated it was made as per instruction of police.
Statement U/S-164CRPC is not a substantive piece of evidence but it may
be used for corroboration or contradiction. In this case , PW-2 who is 15
years instead of supporting the veracity of her Ext-1 contradicts stating
the same to be made under police instruction. From a bare perusal of Ext-
1 , it appears that PW-2 stated before the Magistrate that the accused
committed bad work ( sexual intercourse) with her after finding her alone
at the house. Thereafter, he threatened her not to disclose to other he
would kill her. While deposing before the court, she has contradicted and
deviated from her said statement. So , Ext-1 would not prove the charge
against the accused.

Medical examination report shows that doctor at the time of examination
of PW-2 did not find any sign of recent sexual intercourse or injury on her
private parts.

It is proved from the evidence of PW-1 & PW-2 , Nurul Islam being the
village head-man as well as father of the accused has sufficient influence
in the village. It can be well presumed that he has influenced them not
to depose against his accused-son. Therefore, even if the accused was
detained in jail custody since the time of investigation but the said two
vital witnesses have been won over by his influential father. Unless , the
child victim speaks the basic allegation against the accused , the
statutory presumption against the accused can not be drawn that he has
committed the crime.

In view of the above discussions and observations, this court finds that
the prosecution has failed to prove the charge against the accused
beyond reasonable doubt.

Accordingly, the accused stands acquitted on benefit of doubt. He shall
be set at liberty , if not wanted in any other case. Inform superintendent
of jail Nagaon for compliance.

Judgment is declared and delivered in the open court singed by me under
the seal of this court this 11" Day of January 2019.

(A Rahman, AJS )

Special Judge ,
Nagaon.

Judgment prepared & corrected by me.

(A. Rahman, AJS )
Special Judge , Nagaon.
-APPENDIX-

Prosecution witness-

1. PW-1 Kamala.
2. PW-2 Victim Girl

Exhibits-
1. Ext-1 Statement recorded U/S-164crpc
Defence witness-
NIL

Defence Exhibits-

NIL

(A. Rahman, AJS )

Additional Sessions Judge, No-1 Nagaon.
