Page 1 of 9

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 38 of 2017
Under section 8 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of G. R Case No. 2997 of 2017)

State of Assam

—Vs-
Sri Sankar Gowala ves Accused Person

Present: Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge;
Sonitpur, Tézpuk,

For the State : Mr _M.@ Baruah,

Special Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Sri N.M. Goswami, Legal Aid counsel.
Date of Argument : 15-03-2019.
Date of.Judgment : 29-03-2019.
JUDGMENT
1) The genesis of the present case is sexual assault on a thirteen years

old girl (herein after called as “the victim”). It is alleged that on 06-08-2017 at
around 4 p.m., the accused Sankar Gowala by gagging the mouth of the
victim dragged her from Rangamancha of their village to the nearby jungle
and attempted to commit her rape but on raising alarm, when local public

reached there, accused left the victim in the jungle.

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.1) on 06-08-2017 from the informant
(PW1), the victim's father, the In-charge of Bihaguri Police Out Post made the
G.D. Entry No. 85 dated 06-08-2017 and forwarded the FIR to the Officer-in-

 
Page 2 of 9

Charge of Tezpur Police Station. On receipt of the same, the Officer-in-charge
of Tezpur PS registered the case being Tezpur P.S. Case No. 1572/17 u/s
341/352 of IPC read with section 8 of POCSO Act and entrusted ASI Suren
Phukan to investigate the case who already launched the investigation of the
case. In course of investigation, the Investigating Officer (PW 7) visited the
place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the witnesses, arrested the
accused, sent the victim for medical examination, got her statement_recerded
u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation having found ‘materials,
laid chargesheet against the accused Sankar Gowala u/s 341/352 ofPC read
with section 8 of POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of the accused person“before “this Court, after
furnishing necessary copies as required u/s 207 of €r-PYC. and having heard
both parties, my learned predecessor, framedxcharge u/s 8 of POCSO Act
against the accused Sankar Gowala and‘particulars of the charge on being
read over and explained to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty and

claimed for trial.

4. To substantiateythe case, prosecution examined as many as seven
numbers of witnesses. Qn closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of
the accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the accused denied all the
incriminating evidence that emerged against him and stated that when the
victim girl, whe ISyphysically handicapped, came near to a school of her house,
she fell downepon mud and at that time he was sitting in the verandah of the
school and seeing the girl falling down, he lifted her but then out of fear, she
cried and returned home and thereafter filed the FIR implicated him falsely.

os I have heard the argument of the learned counsel of both sides and

also have gone through the materials on record.
6. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) " Whether the accused Sri Sankar Gowala on 06-08-2017 at around 4 p.m. at
Gabhoru Sib Mandir under Tezpur Police Station committed sexual assault on the victim
Miss "X” a minor girl aged about 13 years, and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 8 of POCSO Act?

 
Page 3 of 9

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

7. Mr. M. Baruah, the learned Special Public Prosecutor
strenuously argued that the materials on record undoubtedly project a case of
sexual assault on a handicap minor girl. He further submitted that the
evidence of the witnesses of alleged sexual assault is enough to convict the

accused person.

8. Controverting the said argument, Mr. N. Gowami, the_learnedwlegal
Aid counsel appearing for the accused, submitted that evidence\available on
record coupled with the evidence of the victim, does not Warrant*conviction of

the accused person.

9. In the present case in hand, the inforsmantywhe is the father of the
victim claimed the age of the victim as 13. yearsywhefeas according to victim's
mother their daughter was about 15 years at the relevant time and as per
evidence of PW 5, the victim was 13/44 years old. According to the informant,
the victim was a student ef Gopinath Bordoloi Girls’s school but the
Investigating Officer did not seize. any certificate regarding the age of the
victim. On the other handpathe*guardian of the victim refused for medical
examination of the’gifl\Hewever, the age of the victim is not disputed in this
case. In the above, taking the evidence of the parents as well as the victim, it
can be safély Neld“that she was child below the age of 18 years at the time of

incident.

10. Now, the question is whether the accused Sankar Gowala committed
any offence on the victim child. In this respect, let me travel through the

evidence adduced by the prosecution side.

11. PW 1 is the father of the victim as well as the informant of this case.
He deposed that on the day of incident at about 3.30/4 p.m. his victim
daughter aged about 13 years went to “Rangamancha” to collect leaves of
coconut tree but after some time his daughter came crying and reported his
elder sister (PW 3) that when she went to collect leaves of coconut tree, the
accused gagged her mouth and by pressing her neck had taken her to the

jungle near “Rangamancha” and tried to lay her down, but on raising alarm,

 
Page 4 of 9

the accused left the place. She informed the incident to him and his family
members. Then they searched the accused and found him sleeping in the
backside of the shop. He brought the accused to the police station and
handed over to police. Thereafter he filed the FIR, Ext.1.

During cross, he stated that his victim daughter is physically
handicapped due to which sometimes she fell down and in those situations,
the persons near her, used to help her to get up. He informed police over
phone about the incident. Accordingly, police came and took the,accused to
the police station. He admitted that he had not seen the imeident\but he had
seen injury mark on the neck of his victim daughter. Admittedlhy he had not
seen mud stains in the wearing apparel of the “Wictim, ‘Police seized one

chappal of the accused from the place of occurrence)

12. Close on the heels of the evidence of, the informant, PW 2, the
mother of the victim girl who stated that on the day of incident at around
3.30/4 p.m. her daughter went_towards..Rangamamcha” to collect coconut
leaves and branches of trees. ‘At“that time the accused was sitting in the
veranda of the “Rangamancha’. After some time her victim daughter by
crying came and reported Ranju Gowala (PW 3) that when she went for
collecting branches\of tree“and coconut leaves, then the accused by gagging
her mouth and pressing her neck, took her to the nearby jungle. Thereafter,
the accused triedyto lay her down and on raising alarm when the accused left
her, She)ranetowards home by crying. The victim informed the matter to her
and\other family members. Lateron, her husband caught the accused and
handed over to police. She further stated that the victim is physically
handicapped.

During cross, she stated that she possessed the birth certificate of
the victim. According to her the accused did not commit any misdeed to her
victim daughter and only attempted to commit misdeed. She had seen nail

mark on the neck of the victim, for which the victim suffered pain.

13. PW 3 Ranju Gowala deposed that on the day of incident, at around

3.40/4 p.m., while she was at home, hearing cry of the victim she came out

 
Page 5 of 9

from home and on being enquired the victim, she reported that when she
went to collect some leaves and dry branches of tree near “Rangamancha”, at
that time a boy who was sitting in the veranda of “Rangamancha”, gagged
her mouth and pressing her neck took her to the nearby jungle and on raising

alarm, the accused left the place.

During cross, she stated that the victim did not mention the name of,any
person. She only stated that she was attacked by a boy. She further stated
that being a physically handicapped one, the victim sometimes fell down and

in those situations, she sought for help of others nearby hens

14. PW 4 is the victim herself. She stated that omethe.day of incident, at
about 4 p.m. she went towards “Rangamancha” to, collect some dry leaves of
coconut for making broom. At that time accused.was sitting in the verendah
of “Rangamacha”. Accused took her towafds jungle, pressed her neck and fell
her down in the jungle. Then she raised alarm and informed the matter to PW

3 and then to her mother. She proved ‘her,statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C as Ext. 2.

During cross, she stated that as she is physically handicapped, so she
had to face some difficultiessewhen she got up or standing and in that situation
she sought for help\of\others. She admitted that the road near the
“Rangamancha= is upyand down and while going by the said road, she found
some difficultie@s. She further stated that when she went to collect leaves of
coconut, trees, ‘she fell down on the ground. At that time immediately accused
came Near to her and tried to help her. She further stated that she fell down
Near the “Rangamancha” but her clothes did not get dirty. She also admitted

thatthe accused did no misdeed to her.

15. PW 5, Rinku Gowala testified that on the day in the evening he heard
from his mother that when the victim girl went to collect leaves of coconut
tree near “Rangamancha”, accused took the victim girl towards jungle but he

did not know about the actual incident.

16. PW 6 Dr. Geetumoni Sonowal, the Medical Officer deposed that on
07-08-2017 the victim was produced before her for examination but the

guardian of the victim refused to examine her.

 
Page 6 of 9

17. PW 7 ASI Suren Phukan, the Investigating Officer stated that on 06-
08-2017 on being entrusted to investigate the case, he visited the place of
occurrence, drew the sketch map of the place of occurrence vide Ext.4,
recorded the statement of the witnesses, arrested the accused, sent the
victim for medical examination, got recorded the statement of the victim u/s
164 Cr..P.C. and on completion of investigation, laid chargesheet against the
accused Sankar Gowala u/s 341/352 of IPC read with section 8 of POCSQ@sAct.

During cross, he also stated that the victim Wéas, physically
handicapped and she cannot walk properly. He further stated“that though he
sent the victim girl for medical examination, but she refused saying that it is
not required. He did not seize any document regarding theXage of the victim

girl in this case.

18. Regarding allegation of sexual assault the victim’s parents PW 1
and PW 2 stated that on the day ingthe afternoon at about 3.30/4 p.m. the
victim went to collect coconut leaveswnear “Rangamancha” and after some
time she came crying and reported™her aunty (PW 3) that when she went for
collecting branches of treé, accused gagged her mouth and pressing her neck
had taken her to the\nearby jungle situated near “Rangamancha” and
thereafter when heXtried\to lay her down, she screamed and then the accused
left the place. PW 3, the aunty of the victim, whom the victim reported first
about the incident, stated that on the day at about 3.40/4 p.m. when she was
at home) hearing cry of the victim, she came out and seeing the victim when
she\asked her, the victim reported that when she went to collect some
branches of tree near “Rangamancha”, then a boy who was sitting in the
veranda of “Rangamancha”, gagged her mouth and pressing her neck, had
taken her to the nearby jungle. According to this witness, the victim did not
mention the name of any person but only stated that she was attacked by a

boy.

19. Though PW 1 and PW 2 alleged that the accused pressed the neck of
the victim and they had seen injury mark over the neck of the victim but they
being parents refused to get examine the girl. The evidence of the victim’s

father that police seized one chappal of the accused from the place of

 
Page 7 of 9

occurrence is also not supported by any witness including the Investigating
Officer. Moreover, though PW 1 stated that he had seen mud stain in the
wearing apparel of the victim but the victim herself did not support the same,
rather she stated that due to physical disability, she herself fell down and her
clothes did not get dirty.

20. In the case admittedly the victim is physically handicapped oneyand
sometimes she fell down while walking and in those situations sheGought for
help of the nearby person to get up. Though the victim®¢PWa 4) in
examination-in-chief testified that on the day when she went towards
“Rangamancha” for collecting leaves, the accused who ‘was sitting in the
verandah of “Rangamancha”, took her towards jungle, pressed her neck and
made her lay upon the jungle but in the same breath,during cross, she clearly
stated that due to physical disability she suffered™from difficulties when she
got up or stand up and in those situationsyshe sought for help of others. She
further stated that the road near “Rangamancha” is up and down and as such
she faced difficulties while walking bythe road and when she proceeded to
collect leaves of coconut 4rees Om the day, she fell down on the ground.
Seeing her falling, the aceused immediately came near to her and tried to help

her. She also admitted“that the accused did not commit any misdeed to her.

21. Heré.in}the present case, the evidence of the victim reveals that due
to bad gondition\of the road by which she proceeded to collect branches of
treesion theeday, she fell down and seeing her in that situation the accused
came to‘her and tried to help her. The victim also admitted that the accused
didyno misdeed to her. The victim’s mother also categorically stated that the
accused did not commit any misdeed to her victim daughter. The
examination-in- chief of the victim regarding gagging her mouth and pressing
her neck and made her fall down upon ground clearly negates during cross-
examination where she stated a complete different story. When there is no
eye witness, victim's evidence during cross that the accused did nothing,
rather he only helped her while she fell down creates doubt about the

prosecution version regarding alleged sexual assault.
Page 8 of 9

22. Considering the evidence of prosecution witnesses in_ totality
particularly the evidence of the victim and other surrounding circumstances as
discussed above, it is clear that the allegation against the accused Sankar
Gowala have not been established beyond all reasonable doubt and the

accused is entitled to benefit of doubt.

23. Accordingly, accused Sankar Gowala is acquitted on benefit of doubt
from the charge u/s 8 of POCSO Act and set him at liberty forthwith. The
accused being in jail-hajot, he is allowed to go on P.R. bond of Rsm10,000/-.

24. Judgement is pronounced and delivered in open court under the Seal
and signature of this Court on the 29™ day of Marchp2019!

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Prosecution witnesses.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Exhibits.

Ext. 1

Ext. 2

Ext. 3

Ext. 4

Ext. 5

Ss

PW 1
PW 2
PW 3
PW 4
PW 5
PW 6
PW 7

Page 9 of 9

: father of the victim and informant.
: mother of the victim

: aunty of the victim

: victim

: Rinku Gowala.

: Dr. Geetumoni Sonowal, M.O.

: ASI Suren Phukan, I.O. a
: FIR XX
: 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the ~~

: Medical report.

: sketch map NS ;

®Q

.Barman)

Special Judge,
See TEZPUR

s
R

 

Special POCSO Case No. 38 of 2017
