SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/18

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: CACHAR.
SpI.(POCSO) Case No.8 of 2018
(U/S 366 IPC and Sec. 4 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM ........cecsseeeeeseeeesssseaeeeeeesssseeeeees Complainant.
-Versus-

AjOY Karmakal...........ccsccccceecereeeesssteeeeesneseees Accused persons
Charge framed ON !-......cccccccccceecceceeeeessseeeeeeesessseeeaeas 20/6/19
P.Ws. examined On:-..........ccccceeeee 19/7/19,16/8/19,13/11/19
Argument heard On: .....ccccccceesssseeeseessssseeseessseeeeess 25/10/19.

Judgment pronounced and delivered On:-..........:000 30/10/19.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : Mr.M. Das, Ld.Legal Aid Counsel.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant Smti. Kalabati

Bhar lodged an FIR with the O/C Udharbond P.S. stating the facts that on
12.11.2017 at about 12 noon while the daughter of the informant was going to
the market from their house, the accused person had kidnapped her.

2. On receipt of the FIR, a regular PS case was registered vide
Udharbond P.S. Case No.233/17 U/S 366 of IPC. Police started investigation and
during the course of investigation the statement of the victim girl was recorded
U/S 164 Cr.P.C. The victim girl was also sent to SMCH, Silchar for medical
examination. The investigating officer visited the place of occurrence and

prepared a rough sketch map. He also recorded statement of the witnesses and
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/18

subsequently after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet against
accused persons U/S 366 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. The offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act of the case being exclusively triable
by the Court of Special Judge, this case was committed to the Special court . In
due course, upon production of the accused person and after hearing both sides
formal charge U/S 366 IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act was framed by this court
against the accused person. The charges having been read over and explained
the accused persons pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(i) Whether the accused person on 12.11.2017 at about 12 noon
kidnapped the victim, with intent that she might be compelled or knowing it to be
likely that she would be compelled to marry against her will or that she would be
seduced or forced to sexual intercourse , as alleged ?

(2) Whether the accused person committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim, as alleged ?

5. From the prosecution side as many as 4 witnesses have been
examined including the informant and the victim. As per submission of Id. P.P. the
evidence of the prosecution side is closed. Statement of the accused person is
recorded U/S 313 CrP.C. to which he denied the allegations and declined to
adduce any evidence in defence.

6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have also
heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF
7. Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused person
as mentioned in point for determination.

8. PW.3 is the victim i.e. the principal witness in this case and she
deposed in her evidence that the occurrence took place about one year ago and
that time she was working as labour for construction of roads. The accused was
also working in the said road construction at that time. She further deposed that

one day after informing her mother she went to the house of her maternal aunt at
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/18

Kalacherra hospital, Udharbond and thereafter her mother lodged a case
suspecting that she was kidnapped. Police had produced her before the court
wherein her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded and she was also took to
SMCH for her medical examination. She further deposed that about 4 / 5 months
ago she got married with the accused.

In her cross examination she deposed that she had relations with the
accused and accused never entered into physical relationship with her prior to
their marriage. She further stated in her cross examination that after the release
of the accused from the jail the village people including her mother gave her
marriage with the accused. She stated in her cross examination that at the time
of occurrence her age was 17 years.

9. PW.1 Kalaboti Bhar is the mother cum informant of this case. She
deposed in her evidence that at the time of occurrence her victim daughter was
working as a labour for construction of road and was going to her place of work
at Ataicherra basti near to Harinaband side. Thereafter the victim did not return
to her house. PW.1 further deposed that on suspicion she had lodged the FIR
with the Udharbond PS and that after filing of the case police had recovered her
daughter from the house of maternal aunt of the accused. PW.1 further deposed
in her evidence that on being asked her daughter reported her that she went to
the house of her maternal aunt at Kalacherra, Udharbond. She further deposed
that at the time of occurrence the age of the victim was 18 years. In her cross
examination PW.1 categorically stated that she cannot say the contents of the FIR
and she also does not know as to who had written the FIR. She further stated in
her cross examination that her victim daughter had informed her that she (victim)
had willfully went to the house of her maternal aunt and none had taken her.

10. PW.2, Anjali Bhar, the sister of the victim, deposed in her evidence
that about one year back from the date of her deposition the victim used to go to
work for construction of road at Udharbond area and as she did not return from
work her mother has lodged the FIR and thereafter the victim was recovered by
the police. The defence declined to cross examine the PW.2.

11. PW.4, Motilal Bhar, deposed in his evidence that on the following day
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/18

of the occurrence, the informant informed him that her victim daughter was
missing from her place of work of road construction at Udharbond Bazar and
thereafter the informant lodged this FIR. PW.4 further deposed that after 2 / 4
days of the occurrence victim was recovered from the house of accused. He
further deposed that at the time of occurrence the age of the victim was below
18 years. In his cross examination PW.4 stated that police did not record his
statement and that he cannot say as to how and with whom the victim went and
that he does not know as to where from the victim was recovered.

12. So, from the evidence of prime witness i.e. the victim PW.3 it
appears that she did not at all implicate the accused person in the alleged
offence of crime. Rather, she stated in her deposition that at that time
she went to the house of her maternal aunt and thereafter her mother
lodged this case out of suspicion and also she stated in her cross
examination that accused never entered into any physical relationship with
her prior to her marriage. PW-1 the informant also deposed in his
evidence that she lodged the FIR on suspicion. She further deposed that
at the relevant time age of the victim was 18 years. PW-4 is a reported
witness. Though the PW-4 in examination in chief deposed that victim
was recovered from the house of the accused but in his cross examination
he categorically stated that he has no knowledge as to where from the
victim was recovered.

13. So, from the entire evidence on record, it appears that that none of
the witnesses including the principal witness the victim herself at all implicated the
accused in the alleged offence of crime u/s 366 of IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act.
The victim in her cross examination stated that at the time of occurrence her age
was 17 years, but in view of her own evidence in chief to the effect that at that
time she went to the house of her maternal aunt , evidence of other witnesses and
the charges leveled against the accused, this piece of evidence of PW.3 will not
come into play to help the case of the prosecution to entangle the accused person

in the alleged offence of crime.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/18

11. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/s 366 of IPC and Sec. 4 of

POCSO Act against accused person —Ajoy Karmakar.

12. In view of the above, accused person is not held guilty and stand

acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty forthwith.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on
this the 30" day of October, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee,
Stenographer
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.8/18

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR

Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 8 of 2018.
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

PW. 1 — Kalaboti Bhar
P.W. 2 — Anjali Bhar
PW. 3 - Babli Karmakar
PW.4 - Motilal Bhar

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: -_ NIL

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.1 - FIR

Ext. 2 — statement of victim

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
