IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Special (POCSO) Case No.21/2017
U/S 363/376 (2)(i) IPC, read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.

Present : Mr. Dhrupad Kashyap Das,

Sessions Judge,
Morigaon.

State of Assam

Vs
SriSachinDeka naa Accused.

Date of Charge :- 17.04.2018.

Date of recording evidence :- 26.06.2018.

Date of Argument :- 26.06.2018.

Date of Judgment :- 27.06.2018.

Appearance for the Parties

Advocate for the State :- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused :- Mr. U. C. Roy, Ld. Advocate.
JUDGMENT

Prosecution case as reflected in the ejahar in brief is that on the
eventful day i.e. on 01.04.2017 the daughter of the informant by the name
Miss — X (real name is withheld to screen the victim from infamy) went to her
school, but she did not return in time and, then, at about 2.00 P.M., the son-in-
law of the informant received one phone call from the Mobile No.9739221124
that he took the daughter of the informant. However, the informant did not
know wherefrom the said phone call came and who called this phone call.
So, the informant went to Morigaon P.S. and lodged an ejahar after three days

of the occurrence of incident to that effect.
On receipt of the said ejahar, O/C Morigaon P.S. registered a case vide
Morigaon P.S. Case No.118/17, U/s 363 IPC, read with Section 4 / 5 of POCSO

Act against the above-named accused person.

Investigation was set in motion. During the course of investigation the
I.0., visited the place of occurrence and examined the witnesses. The I.O.
drew up sketch map of the place of occurrence. Thereafter, the I.O. searched
for the victim and the accused. Accordingly, the I.0. recovered the victim girl
and sent the victim girl for medical examination. Thereafter, the I.O. brought
the victim girl to the Court for recording her statement U/s 164 of Cr.P.C. The
I.O. arrested the accused person and produced before the learned Court,
wherefrom he was remanded to judicial custody. Subsequently, he was let off
on Court bail. Thereafter, upon completion of investigation and finding
sufficient incriminating materials, the 1.0. submitted charge-sheet with
allegation of offences punishable U/s 363 IPC, read with Section 4/6 of POCSO
Act against the accused Sri Sachin Deka. Thereafter, the accused attended the
Ld. Court and the learned Court furnished copies of relevant documents as
mandate U/s 207 Cr.P.C. to him. Thereafter, having heard Ld. Counsel of both
sides and basing upon materials on record framed charge U/s 363/376 (2) (i)
IPC, read with Section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused, which was read
over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed
to be tried.

2. Point for determination :

(i) Whether the present accused on the eventful day i.e. on
01.04.2017 at around 2.00 P.M. at village Gerakhuwa_ under
Morigaon P.S. in the district of Morigaon kidnapped the minor
daughter of the informant without the consent of the informant and
kept the said minor girl away from the lawful guardianship of the
informant ?

(ii) Whether the present accused on the same day, time and place
committed rape upon the minor daughter of the informant, who is

under 16 (sixteen) years of age ?
(iii) Whether the present accused on the same day, time and place
committed an offence of penetrative sexual assault as defined U/s 3
of POCSO Act with the minor daughter of the informant ?

3. In this case prosecution has examined only 2 (two) PWs, the most
vital witness of this case i.e. the victim as PW-2 and the informant Sh. Putul
Medhi as PW-1. But their evidence did not support the prosecution case
from any angle. Therefore, the Ld. P.P. has prayed for closing down of
further prosecution evidence and, accordingly prosecution evidence was
closed. In the event of examination of the accused as warranted U/s 313
Cr.P.C. found to be redundant; the same was dispensed with for ends of

justice. The accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. In this case the prosecution has alleged that on the eventful day, the
above-named accused kidnapped the minor daughter of the informant and
committed rape upon her without her consent and also committed penetrative

sexual assault upon the minor daughter of the informant.

6. PW-2, the victim Miss — X has stated in her evidence that the informant
is her father and the accused is known to her. According to PW-2, the alleged
incident of occurrence took place about one year ago. PW-2 stated that on the
date of occurrence of the incident, she met the accused on the road and eloped
with him voluntarily. PW-2 stated that though the accused initially refused to
take her, but she forced him to take her to his house. PW-2 stated that after
three days of the incident of occurrence, she came back to her house and, then,
she came to know that her father had already lodged an ejahar with regard to
her missing from house. PW-2 stated that on being asked by her parents, she
told that she had love affairs with the accused and on the date of occurrence of
the incident, she voluntarily eloped with the accused. PW-2 proved Ext.2 is her

statement before Magistrate, whereupon Ext.2 (1) is her signature.
During cross-examination, PW-2 stated that the accused did not take
her forcefully. PW-2 stated that she went with the accused out of love affairs
without informing her parents. PW-2 stated that the accused is innocent and her

father lodged the case against the accused out of misunderstanding.

PW-1, the informant Sh. Putul Medhi stated that he lodged the ejahar
about one year ago. PW-1 stated that the victim girl is his daughter and he
knew the accused person. PW-1 stated that on the date of occurrence of the
incident, his daughter went missing from the school and she did not come back
to her house till night. PW-1 stated that despite search he did not find his
daughter for about three days, so, he lodged the ejahar after 3 / 4 days of the
incident of occurrence. PW-1 stated that after few days of the incident of
occurrence, the parents of the accused brought his daughter to his house and
on being asked his daughter told him that she had love affairs with the accused.

PW-1 proved Ext.1 the ejahar, whereupon, Ext.1 (1) is his signature.

During cross-examination, PW-1 stated that at the time of occurrence of
the incident his daughter was a matured girl and she eloped with the accused
on her own free will. PW-1 stated that the accused is innocent and he did not
kidnap his daughter, however, he lodged the ejahar against the accused out of

misunderstanding.

Thus, from the evidence of PW-1 & PW-2 it is found that none of these
two vital witnesses including the victim did not utter a single word as regards
kidnapping, rape and penetrative sexual assault being allegedly committed by
the accused. It is also clarified from the evidence of the victim that she had love
affairs with the accused and she voluntarily went with the accused on the

eventful day.

Ae Considering the evidence on record, we have found that the material
part of the prosecution case remained un-substantiated, as the victim herself
stated that she had love affairs with the accused and she voluntarily went with
the accused on the eventful day. So, we have found that the most material
witness of this case as PW-2 (the victim) did not support the prosecution

allegation in its material aspects. Section 232 Cr.P.C. mandates an acquittal of
the accused from an offence, which states that “If, after taking the evidence for
the prosecution, examining the accused and hearing the prosecution and the
defence on the point, the Judge considers that there is no evidence that the

accused committed the offence, the Judge shall record an order of acquittal.”

8. In view of the above discussion and in view of Section 232 Cr.P.C., I
have found that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the accused
beyond any reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused is not found guilty for
the offences punishable U/s 363/376 (2) (i) of IPC, read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act and as such, he is acquitted and set at liberty. In this case, since the
victim girl has completely negated the prosecution case, therefore, she is not

entitled to receive any compensation under section 357 A Cr.P.C.

Judgment is delivered and pronounced in the open Court on this 27"

day of June, 2018 under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Sessions Judge,
Morigaon.

APPENDIX

. Prosecution witness :-
. PW-1 :- Sh. Putul Medhi,
PW-2 :- Miss Parishmita Medhi.
. Defence witness : Nil.
. Prosecution Exhibit :-
. Ext. 1, the ejahar,
. Ext. 2, the statement of the victim recorded U/s 164 Cr. P.C.

. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

Oo NF OD WN KF |S

Sessions Judge,
Morigaon.
