a"

J
sol
en

oe*

TH Di ane

T an 7
U/S - 448/376 of the IPC r.w. Sec. 4 of the POCSO. Act.
Committed by Sri N.J. Sarma, Ld. Addl. CJM., HAILAKANDI (Assam).

State

- Versus -
Ruhul Uddin —_aaeaees Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee, Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance and particulars :-

For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused persons :- SriJ.l. Choudhury, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidences ‘- 01.11.2017.
Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC :- 07.11.2017.
Date of Argument s« O7.11.20217.
Date of Judgment ‘- 67.13.2017.
JUDGMENT

The case of the prosecution, in brief, is that on
7.4.2016 the complainant/victim, aged 15 years lodged a complaint
before the Ld. Chief Judicial Magistrate, Hailakandi alleging that the
accused person Ruhul Uddin is her neighbour and since last many
days, the accused has been trying to outrage her modesty. On the
relevant day in the absence of the father of the complainant, the
accused entered into the house of the complainant and kidnapped her

Contd....P/2.
Case ha
= Wu

and took her in a L.P. School of their village, wherein the accused
person committed rape on her against her will, putting her under the
fear of killing her and by that time, when the victim raised hue and cry,
the accused person fled away from the place of occurrence leaving the

informant therein.

a On receipt of the complaint, the same was
forwarded to the O/C, Lala Police Station for investigation of the case.
Accordingly,a case vide Lala PS Case No.177/2016 was registered
under Sec. 448/376 of the IPC and accordingly, police started the
investigation of the case.

3. During investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, recorded statements of the witnesses including the victim,
drew up a sketch map of the place of occurrence, got the victim
medically examined. Police also got the statement of the victim
recorded by the Magistrate and on completion of investigation, having
been found prima facie case police laid charge sheet against the
accused person Ruhul Uddin 448/376 of the IPC. showing him
absconder.

4. The Ld. Addl. Chief Judicial Magistrate, Hailakandi
on appearance of accused person Ruhul Uddin, furnished him copies of
relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC and as the offence
being exclusively sessions triable, committed the case to this Court.

5. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record,
having found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person
has committed the offence, the formal charges have been framed
against the accused person Ruhul Uddin under Sec. 448/376, IPC
read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. The charges so framed were read
over and explained to the accused,to which he pleaded not guilty and
Contd....P/3.
cial (P Oo ae
aan
claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

6. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined
only 2 witnesses including the victim of this case. Thereafter, on
submission of Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence Counsel, the
prosecution evidence was closed. The accused person was examined
under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has denied all such allegations
levelled against him by the prosecution. The defence did not adduce
any evidence.

Be Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-
(i) Whether the accused person on 6.4.2016 at

about 4 PM by entering into the house of the complainant/victim
kidnapped her and committed rape on her, as alleged ?

(ii) Whether the accused person after kidnapping
the victim/complainant committed penetrative sexual assault upon her,

as alleged ?

DISCUSSION, _ DECISION __ AND __ REASONS
THEREOF:-
8. The PW. 1, the victim cum complainant, Must.

Salma Khanam Laskar has deposed that she knows the accused Ruhul.
The incident occurred about one year back in a day at about 4 PM. At
the relevant time, while she went out to bring back her cattle, the
accused pressed her mouth and took her in a school, nearby her house
and started tearing her cloths and then, by raising hue and cry, she ran
to her father and disclosed the entire incident. Thereafter, she lodged
the ejahar, Ext. 1, wherein Ext. 1(1), 1(2) and 1(3) are her signatures.
Police got her statement recorded by the Magistrate vide Ext. 2,
wherein Exts. 2(1) and 2(2) are my signatures.

9. During cross examination, this witness has stated

Contd....P/4.
ecial ) Case N 20
as

that the incident occurred during dusk hour and due to darkness, she
could not identify the miscreant. The witness has also stated that she
has no allegation against the accused person. She has also stated that
she can not say the contents of Ext. 1 and at present, she has been
living with her husband in his house. It is further stated by the victim
during cross examination that at the relevant time, she was aged more
than 18 years and on being influenced by her relatives, she made
statement before the Magistrate.

10. The PW. 2, Md. Alim Uddin Laskar, the father of the
victim, has deposed that the accused is his son in law. About one year
back in the night at about 8 PM when he returned to his home, his
daughter reported him that while she went to bring cattle during dusk
hour, the accused gagged her mouth and took her in a school and tore
her cloth and thereafter, by making hue and cry, she ran to their
house. It is also stated by this witness that at the relevant time of
incident, his daughter was 18 years old and after the incident, he gave
the marriage of his daughter with the accused and at present, she is
the wife of the accused and living together as husband and wife and he
wants acquittal of the accused.

In cross examination, the PW. 2 has stated that her
daughter, the victim did not report him anything about the incident.

ot In the case at hand, the accused Ruhul Uddin has
been charged under Sec. 448/376 of the IPC. read with Sec. 4 of the
POCSO Act but from the evidence of the victim/complainant as well as
her father, nothing has come to light that the accused person
trespassed into the house of the complainant and committed rape or
caused penetrative sexual assault upon her.

ie: Moreover, the victim/informant in her evidence in
chief has stated that at the relevant time, the accused by pressing her
mouth took her to a nearby school and started to tear her cloths and
then, by raising hue and cry, she ran to her father and disclosed the

| Contd....P/5.
atl

dc 201
« &«

entire incident to him, whereas in her cross examination, the victim has
vividly divulged that the incident occurred during dusk hour and due to
darkness, she could not identify the miscreant and she has got no
allegation against the accused person and she made statement before
the Magistrate on being influenced by her relatives. Apart from that,
the evidence of the PW. 2, father of the victim, also does not support
the prosecution case. Though in his evidence, the PW. 2 has stated that
on the relevant day at night when he came to home, his daughter
reported him that while she went to bring cattle during dusk hour, the
accused gagged her mouth and took her to a nearby school and tore
her cloth but in his cross examination, he has made it crystal clear that
his daughter did not report him anything about the incident.

13; The above discussions in the light of the evidence
on record in its entirety creates a doubt as to the authenticity of the
statement given in the court as the victim is found most unreliable as
she in her examination in chief clearly implicated the accused while
during cross examination, she has given a complete clean sheet to the
accused. Moreover, the victim as well as her father have vividly stated
that after the incident, the accused person has married the victim and
they have been leading a happy married life as husband and wife. As
such, | hold that the prosecution has failed to prove its case beyond all
reasonable doubt against the accused person and accordingly, | find it
appropriate to acquit the accused person Ruhul Uddin, who had been
charged under Sec. 446/376 of the IPC. read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO
Act. Consequently, the accused person Ruhul Uddin is acquitted of
the charges levelled against him and he is set at liberty forthwith.

14, The bail bond of the accused person stands
discharged.
15. Send a copy of this judgment to the District

Magistrate, Hailakandi.

Contd....P/6.
ecial (P O e No.17/2017

-6-
16. The Sessions Case is disposed of accordingly.
17. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open

Court under the seal of this Court and on my signature on this Ya

dayof November, 2017.

ayy
aN

il Hailak i
SESSIONS JUDG§
Dictated and corrected by me :- HAILAKAND!I
ecial Jud j ndi.
555 \
HATLAKAND

Dictation is taken and transcribed by Baharul Islam Choudhury,
Stenographer Grade |.

Contd....P/7.
cial (P No.9 ay.

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, Salma Khanam Laskar.
PW. 2, Alim Uddin Laskar.
Documentary evidences :-
Ext. 1- Ejahar.

Ext. 2- Statement of the victim.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

     

d Hai
SESSIONS JUDGE
HAILAKANDI!
