IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, BAJALI,
PATHSALA

Spl. POCSO Case No. 18 of 2018
U/S - 366(A)/419 IPC and Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

State
- Versus -

Kabir Ali
: Accused person.

Present :
Sri L.K. Saikia, AJS.
Additional Sessions Judge, Bajali, Pathsala.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Smti. Dhira Devi Ld. Addl. P. P.

For the accused persons : Sri Nabajit Sarma, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidences : 05/03/2019, 19/03/2019,
02/04/2019, 06/05/2019, 30/05/2019.

Date of recording statements u/s 313 Cr.P.C. : 13-09-2019

Date of Argument : 18-09-2019 and 01-10-2019

Date of Judgment : 03-10-2019

J UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that, one Manju Roy
lodged an ejahar on 17/09/2018 with the In-Charge, Pathsala Police Out
Post alleging, inter-alia, that on 16/09/2018 at about 4 pm her daughter
'X' (name withheld) told her that she is going to one of her friend and

Page No. 1 of 33
thereafter she went out from their house but did not return home till
17-09-2016. She ranged to her mobile phone but it was found switch
off. Hence, this case.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, Pathsala OP registered GD Entry
No. 445 dated 17/09/2018 and forwarded the same to Patacharkuchi
Police Station to register a case under proper section of law and
accordingly it was registered as Patacharkuchi P. S. Case No. 325/18
u/s 366(A) IPC.

3. During investigation police visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statements of witnesses including the victim girl, sent her
for medical examination but she refused to undergo medical
examination, produced her before the Court wherein the Ld. Magistrate
recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C, after that arrested the accused
person and forwarded him to the court and after completion of
investigation, having been found prima-facie case, the I/O sent up the
accused for trial by filing charge sheet u/s 366(A) and 4 of POCSO Act,
2012.

4. On appearance of the accused person, heard the learned
Addl. P. P. appearing for the State and the learned defence counsel and
after perusal of materials available on record u/s 173 Cr.P.C., having
been found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person
has committed the offence, framed the formal charge under section
366 (A) /419IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and the accusation of
charge was read over and explained to him, to which he pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. It is pertinent to mention herein during trial it comes to
light that the accused person had also committed the offence u/s 419
IPC. Hence after hearing from the learned counsel for both the parties,
considering the evidence on record the formal charge u/s 419 IPC was
framed and accusation of charge so framed, was read over and
explained to the person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to
be tried.

Page No. 2 of 33
6. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined
altogether 6 (six) PWs including victim, informant and I/O. The defence
plea is of total denial. The accused person was while examined u/s 313
of Cr. P. C. with regards to the incriminating materials available in the
evidence of the witnesses repeated his denial. The defence side has
not adduced any defence evidence.

7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person on 16/09/2018 at around 4 pm
kidnapped the victim girl from Pathsala Jyoti Nagar under the
jurisdiction of Patacharkuchi P.S. with intent to seduced or to
commit illicit intercourse or to marry her against her will by
another person and thereby committed an offence punishable
u/s 366- A IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused person on 16-09-18 at about 4 pm.
and on earlier days at Jyotinagar Pathsala town under
Patacharkuchi P.S. pretended to be Rakesh Das, cheated the
victim by introducing himself as Rakesh Das and concealed his
real name Kabir Ali, developed love affairs with her and he took
her to Hyderabad and there he gave vermilion on her forehead
and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 419 IPC ?

(iii) Whether the accused person on or after 16-09-2018 after
kidnapping the victim girl committed penetrative sexual assault
on her and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012 ?

EVIDENCE OF THE WITNESSES

8. PW - 1 Manju Roy, the informant in this case deposed that
the victim is her daughter. On the day of occurrence, she was not at
home. Her daughter “X” told her over telephone that she would go to
attend in a birthday of her friend. On that day at about 4.30 pm she

Page No. 3 of 33
reached home and found her daughter was not at home. Though she
has been waiting till 9 pm but did not return her daughter home. After
9 pm she contacted her friends Binita Roy and Pinki over telephone but
they replied that 'X' did not come to their house and then she tried to
contact her daughter too but she had not replied on her call. On the
next day morning at about 6 am, one Kabir informed her over
telephone that he had taken away her daughter. When she asked Kabir
where they were then he replied that they had booked train ticket for
Delhi even ready to go. Hearing it she asked them to come back. But
he replied that his parents are there in Delhi even tickets have already
been booked so they could not come back. When they refused to come
then finding no alternative she has filed the FIR. Ext. 1 is the FIR and
Ext. 1(i) is her signature. At the time of happening of the incident the
age of her daughter was 17 years and she had appeared for HSLC
examination. After one month of the happening of the incident Kabir
and her daughter returned to her home. On reaching home, people
gathered at her home and someone among them informed to police
then the police took both of them to the police station. The police has
produced the victim before the Court and in the Court Magistrate has
recorded her statement and thereafter given zimma to them. On
reaching home she asked her daughter how Kabir Ali had treated to
her during their stay in Delhi. Then she told her that they were living in
a rented house and Kabir treated her as his wife. At the time of filing of
the FIR, police asked her about the incident. Police seized HSLC admit
card of her daughter from her and thereafter same was given zimma to
her. Ext. 2 is the seizure list and Ext. 2(i) is her signature. Material Ext.
1 is the admit card of HSLC examination.

In cross-examination, PW 1 deposed that she has no
personal knowledge how her daughter was missing from home as she
was not present at home. On reaching home at 4.30 pm she has not
received any information whereabout of her daughter from anyone.
She has not informed to the police at that time. Police has not given
her any receipt after seizing the HSLC admit card of her daughter from

Page No. 4 of 33
her. PW 1 did not state before the police that on the next day morning
Kabir told her over telephone that they have booked ticket for Delhi
and when she asked to return them then Kabir told her that his
parents are there in Delhi moreover tickets have already been booked
so they could not come back. She also did not state before the police
that on reaching home she asked her daughter how Kabir Ali had
treated to her during their stay in Delhi, then she told her that they
were living in a rented house and Kabir treated her as his wife. PW 1
denied the suggestion that her daughter willing eloped with Kabir. Her
daughter was reading in Pathsala High School at the time of incident.
She had appeared HSLC examination in the year 2018. She was born
in the year 2002. She has also produced the original birth certificate
before the police and police has given zimma to her. They have not
received any letter from accused Kabir Ali that given to her daughter
identifying himself as Rakesh Das. She has not seen her daughter
going with Rakesh Das. They did not go to Delhi but Rakesh Das
informed to them over telephone that they were going to Delhi, and
she has not remembered the phone number. The sim by which
accused informed to them is the sim of her daughter. Police has not
seized the said sim. At the time of happening of the incident her
daughter was a minor. She does not know how Rakesh Das ranged to
them. PW 1 denied the suggestion that Kabir Ali did not take away her
daughter and he never identified himself as Rakesh Das to them. She
also denied that her daughter eloped with an another person and
during missing Kabir Ali found her and take her back to her home, as
such he was not involved into kidnap of her daughter. In the FIR she
has mentioned her mobile number only, except her number she has

not mentioned any other number in the FIR.

9. PW - 2, the victim girl deposed that the accused
introduced himself as Rakesh Das. In the month of August, 2018 one
day a miss call came to her phone number from someone and in the
Said miss call a boy introduced himself as Rakesh Das and he stated
that he drives his own vehicle. Since then several days they have

Page No. 5 of 33
talked over phone and developed a love affair between them. One day
she asked him about the profession of his parents and then he told her
that his father is a doctor and mother is a teacher. On last Biswakarma
Puja day, the said boy asked her to go Jalukbari and on believing him
and on his request she alone went to Jalukbari and at the Jalukbari fly
over she got down from vehicle. Thereafter through phone call they
both of them identified each other as they have talked earlier. After
that he took her to Kamakhya Railway Station and they have been
staying whole night at the railway station. In the morning about 6 am
they have boarded train of Hyderabad and after 3 days of journey they
reached in Hyderabad. Thereafter they went to the house of friends of
Rakesh Das. In Hyderabad in a Ganesh Mandir Rakesh Das gave
vermilion on her forehead. Thereafter they were living as husband and
wife for a week in a rented house. During stay in the rented house said
Rakesh Das cohabited with her. After one week of stay while she went
to the working place of him then friends of Rakesh Das told her that
Rakesh Das is a Muslim boy. Hearing it she find it difficult to believe
but when his friends showed her the photo of praying Namaz by
Rakesh Das then she understood that Rakesh Das is a Muslim boy.
While she asked about the fact of his community, he confessed before
her that his name is not Rakesh Das rather his actual name is Kabir
and he belongs to Muslim community. After that he detained her there
for about 15 days and during these 15 days they were living as
husband and wife. His friends insisted upon her to accept Muslim
religion but she did not accept it and want to come back to Pathsala.
So one day both of them i.e. Kabir (Rakesh Das) and herself came to
Pathsala to her home. On reaching home, the police personnel brought
both them to the police station and on the next day police brought her
to medical for her medical examination but she refused to do the
same as she was well. Thereafter she was produced before the Court
wherein her statement was recorded by the Magistrate. Ext. 3 is the
said statement made before the Magistrate and Ext. 3(i), 3(ii) & 3(ili)
are her signature. At the time of incident she was 17 years old so she
was handed over on zimma to her mother. She appeared HSLC

Page No. 6 of 33
examination. The police had recorded her statement.

In cross-examination of PW 2 deposed that her family
consists of her father, mother, uncle, younger sister and grandmother.
She has not reminded the date of incident. She has forgotten her
mobile number even the number of Rakesh Das. After introducing
through miss call both of them developed love affair over telephone.
She did not state before the police that mother of the accused is a
teacher and father is a doctor. She herself alone went to Jalukbari and
met him at Jalukbari fly over. She has not informed anything to the
traffic police or other person that she came with Kabir. From Jalukdari
to Kamakhya Railway Station they went on foot. In the Kamakhaya
Railway station they met the Railway police and when police
suspected them then Kabir gave some amount of money to the police.
During journey from Kamakhya to Hyderabad by train they met
several persons and co-passengers but she has stated nothing to
them that Kabir brought her from Pathsala. PW 2 did not state before
the police that in Hyderabad in a Ganesh Mandir Kabir gave vermilion
on her forehead. PW 2 denied the suggestion that she did not state
before the Magistrate even before the police that after living 1 week in
Hyderabad one day the friends of Rakesh told her that his name is
Kabir and he belongs to Muslim community. It also denied that she did
not state before the police that in Hyderabad his friends showed her
photo of praying Namaz by Rakesh. She does not know the name of
the friends of Kabir that she met in Hyderabad. She did not state
before the police that some friends of Rakesh in Hyderabad insisted
her to convert her religion from Hindu to Muslim. The victim girl also
denied that knowing the fact that Rakesh is from Muslim community
she developed love affair with him and went to Hyderabad. During
stay in Hyderabad Kabir did not force her to take part in the
cohabitation. She has got her birth certificate. PW 2 denied the
suggestion that since the age that shown in her HSLC admit card and
birth certificate is not identical so she had concealed her birth
certificate and produced the HSLC admit. It is also denied by PW 2 that

Page No. 7 of 33
knowing Kabir as Rakesh Das she willingly went with him. There is no
any such letter that given to her by Kabir Ali identifying himself as
Rakesh Das. She has got the telephone number of Kabir Ali on cross
connection. While she went with accused Kabir Ali at that time she
told to her mother that she is going to house of her friend. Police did
not take to Delhi for identifying the rented house where she stayed
with Kabir Ali. Kabir Ali did not give any gift to her as a token of love.
They did not lodged any FIR stating the fact that Kabir took her to
Delhi identifying himself as Rakesh Das. She willingly went with
accused Rakesh Das believing himself as Hindu. Police has not seized
anything from her. She was not medically examined. PW 2 denied the
suggestion that before the police and Magistrate she deposed falsely.

10. PW - 3 Smti. Kalyani Roy, in this case deposed that
informant Manju Roy is her daughter-in-law and victim is her grand-
daughter. About 5 months back the incident took place. On the day of
incident at about 7 p.m. after returning from Namghar to her home,
she came to know that informant has been searching the victim and
she told her that on that day she went to house of her friend but she
did not return till 7 p.m. Though they search her and wait her for her
return but she did not return the whole night. On the next day her
daughter-in-law lodged an ejahar with the police. On that very day the
police personnel interrogated her about the incident. After missing of
one month of the victim, her daughter-in-law informed her that the
victim was in Hyderabad. One day after one month and a few days,
they return to the home of victim and having got the information of
arrival, the police arrested them and took them to police station. On
arriving home while she asked her grand-daughter where they were
then she told her that she was in Hyderabad along with the accused
person as husband and wife. Her grand-daughter told her that the boy
with whom she eloped was from Muslim community. At the time of
incident her grand-daughter was aged about 15-16 years old. On the
day of returning of her grand-daughter from Hyderabad she was not
at home.

Page No. 8 of 33
In cross-examination, PW 3 stated that she does not
know personally how the victim was missing from home and with
whom she had eloped. She does not know the exact date of birth of
her grand-daughter. She does not know who has cheated the victim
and about impersonation. Victim went out from home by saying that
she would go to her friend's house with a view to attending a birthday

party.

11. PW - 4 Sri Sontosh Roy, in this case deposed that on the
day of the incident he went out for work. On returning home his
mother (Kalyani Roy) informed him that his daughter has gone to
attend in a party of her friend but till then she did not return . On that
day his wife Manju Roy went to attend a marriage ceremony and after
her returning she arrived at home and then asked whether the victim
has returned or not then he told her that she did not return. Since she
had not returned so they contacted to her friends but she was not
there. Thereafter they were searching about her but found no any clue
of his daughter. On the next day his daughter ranged to his wife that
she eloped with a boy to Delhi and the boy with whom she went was a
boy and his title is some Das. Hearing it on the next day also he went
out for working as he is a daily labourer and after returning home his
wife informed him that she had lodged an Ejahar. At the time of the
incident the age of his daughter was about 14 to 15 years and was a
student of class X and appeared HSLC examination but failed. Police
did not ask him anything about the incident. After about one month
his daughter return to home from Delhi together with the boy. On
returning home from Police station his wife intimated him that the boy
with whom his daughter eloped was a boy from Muslim community.

In cross-examination of PW4 deposed that he does not
know personally how his daughter was missing from home and with
whom she had eloped and the exact date of birth victim. His
daughter did not inform him about the incident over telephone. What
he knows about the incident that informed by his wife to him. At first
his daughter was reading in Pathsala M.E. School and thereafter

Page No. 9 of 33
reading in Pathsala Girls High School from where she appeared HSLC
examination but he has forgotten in which year she had appeared.
PW 4 denied the suggestion that at the time of the incident the age of
his daughter was above 15 years.

12. PW - 5 Smti. Gitanjali Nath deposed that on the day of
incident at about 7 pm her mother informed her over telephone that
victim went to attend in a birthday ceremony of her friend but till
then she had not returned. Thereafter again at 11 pm she ranged to
her mother who told her that her sister had not returned from her
friends house by attending birthday party. So, on the next day
evening at about 5 pm she came to her mother's house at Pathsala
Jyotinagar and came to know from her grand mother that her mother
went to the police station for lodging FIR. On the third day of the
incident at about 5 pm her sister ranged to her mother and intimated
her that she was in Delhi. Thereafter her mother informed to the
police station about the fact. About 7 to 8 days later, she returned to
home by train with the accused person Kabir and got down at
Barpeta Road railway station and after that arrived Pathsala with
Kabir. After arriving at home one of their neighbour informed to police
that victim and Kabir had arrived at home. Having got the information
police came to their home and took Kabir and her to the police
station. When her sister intimated to them that they were in Delhi
with a boy namely Rakesh Das and hearing his name they thought
that he is from Hindu Community. But after coming to the police
station from Delhi they came to know that the name of the boy is not
Rakesh Das rather he is Kabir from Muslim community.

In cross-examination of PW 5 deposed that she has not
reminded the date and time of the occurrence. She has not seen by
her own eye how and with whom victim went to Delhi. She does not
know whether the victim had any love affairs with someone or not.
Her parents also did not intimated anything that she had any love
affairs with a boy. Her mother did not tell her the name of the friend's
of victim to whom she went to attend birthday ceremony. There is no

Page No. 10 of 33
any document with them and to her sister that Kabir gave to the
victim that he is Rakesh Das. PW 6 denied the suggestion that Kabir
never gave his identity to anyone as Rakesh Das even the victim too.
It is also denied the in-spite of Knowing Kabir from Muslim community
her sister continued love affairs with Kabir. PW 5 denied to the
suggestion that Kabir never giving identity as Rakesh Das to victim,
as she love her so she eloped with him and her mother had filed false
case against Kabir that he had fraudulently wanted to married the
victim. She had seen the accused person Kabir Ali in the police
station for the first time. PW5 denied to the suggestion that Kabir Ali
never introduced himself as Rakesh Das to her sister.

LS. PW - 6 Sri Sailen Kr. Kalita, in this case deposed that on
17/09/2018 he was working as In charge of Pathsala out post. On
that day the informant Manju Roy lodged an FIR stating inter-alia that
her 17 years old daughter did not return to home after attending
birthday of her friend. Having got the FIR made GD entry No. 445
dated 17/09/2017 at 11 am and forwarder it to O/C Patacharkuchi
P.S. for registering a case and he, himself took up the matter for
investigation. O/C Patacharkuchi P.S accordingly register the FIR vide
Patacharkuchi P.S. case No. 625/18 u/s 366(A) IPC. and endorsed him
to continue the investigation that he has already taken up. Ext. 4 is
the copy of GD Entry and 4 (1) is his signature. After receiving the
FIR they contacted with the accused and victim over telephone and
by adopting technic of compromise they called them to the Pathsala
Railway station and on arrival at Pathsala railway station he has
apprehended the accused and the victim. After bringing to the police
out post he has recorded the statement of the accused person.
During investigation it is found that initially the accused person
introduced himself before the victim as Rakesh Das from Hindu
community and thereafter induced the victim and accordingly took
away. But after arrest it comes to light from the statement of the
accused that his name is Kabir Ali from Muslim community.

Thereafter he visited at the place of occurrence and draw up the

Page No. 11 of 33
sketch map of the place of occurrence and after that recorded the
statement of the witnesses. Ext. 5 the sketch map and Ext. 5(1) is his
signature. He also sent the victim for medical examination to
FAAMCH, Barpeta but the victim has refused to do medical
examination before the doctor. After that victim was produced before
the Court and in the court magistrate has recorded her statement u/s
164 Cr.P.C. During investigation it also comes to light that while the
accused person took the victim to Hydarabad, there he maintained
physical relationship with the victim in a rented house and thereafter
one day victim came to know from the friends of the accused person
that his is not Rakesh Das rather Kabir Ali from Muslim community.
He seized the age related document of the victim from the
informant. Ext. 2 is the seizer memo and Ext. 2(2) is his signature.
After that it is found that since it was an admit card of the victim so
given jimma to the informant. He has seen the said seized admit
card inthe court. Material Ext. 1 is the admit card. From the
statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. it appears that during the stay in
the rented house there was physical relationship in between the
accused person and the victim. After completion of the investigation
finding sufficient materials against the accused person filed the
charge-sheet vide No. 245/18 dated 31/10/2018 u/s 366(A) IPC
adding section 4 of POCSO Act. Of 2012. Ext. 6 is the charge-
sheet and Ext. 6(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination of PW 6 deposed that during
investigation he has not made any inquiry by going to the home
address of the accused person that he is the Kabir Ali and not Rakesh
Das and to that effect he has also not submitted any documents
before the court. Before 16-09-2018 they have not inquired into the
CDR relating to phone number 87238-80369. He has not made any
inquiry about the name of friends of the victim to whose house she
attended birthday party. He has not inquiry into the CCTV footage of
Kamakhya railway station, Guwahati to ascertain the presence of the
accused and the victim and boarding on the train to Hydarabad. He

Page No. 12 of 33
has not recorded statement of any person who had seen the accused
person taking away the victim while she was going to attend birth
day party of her friend.

Discussions, Decision, and Reasons thereof

 

14. To arrive at a judicial decision perused the case record and
gone through the provision of law.

Point No. (Ill). Charge u/s 419 IPC.

L5. PW 1 is the informant who stated that on the day of
occurrence her daughter went to attend in a birthday party and since
then she was missing. On the next day at about 6 am one Kabir
informed her that he had taken away her daughter for which she
lodged the FIR. The informant also stated that at the time of incident
age of her daughter was 17 years. PW 4 is the father of the victim who
stated that on the next day of of occurrence, his daughter ranged to
his wife and tole that she eloped with a boy and his title is some Das.
After about one month his daughter came back to Pathsala and then
police apprehended both of them and on returning home from police
station his wife told him that the boy with whom his daughter eloped
was a boy from Muslim community. PW 5 is the another daughter of
the informant and sister of the victim girl. She stated that on the day
of incident, her mother informed her that the victim was missing after
going to attend in a birthday party. PW 5 also stated that while her
sister intimated her that she was in Delhi with a body named Rakesh
Das and as such they thought that he is a Hindu boy but after they
arrived at Pathsala police station, she came to know from the victim
that the name of the said boy was Kabir and he belongs to Muslim

community.

16. PW 2 is the vital material witness of this case i.e. the
victim girl who in her evidence stated that one day the accused
introduced himself as Rakesh Das through mobile phone and thereafter

Page No. 13 of 33
a relation of friendship was grown up in between them and
subsequently it turn into love affairs at the passing of time. The
accused also stated that his father is by profession a Doctor and
mother is a teacher. On last Biswkarma Puja day, i.e. the day of
incident the accused asked her to go to Jalukbari and on believing him
and on his his request, she went to Jalukbari and met him there. After
that they went to Kamakhya Railway Station. She further stated that
she along with the accused person went to Hyderabad by boarding
train from there and after arrival in Hyderabad in a Ganesh Mandir,
the accused put vermilion on her forehead and used to stay as
husband and wife in a rented house and during that that time in the
Said house, Rakesh Das co-habited with her. After one week of stay one
day she went to the working place of Rakesh Das and then the friends
of Rakesh Das told her that Rakesh Das is a Muslim boy. Though at first
she did not believe him but on being shown the photograph of praying
Namaz by Rakesh Das she confirmed that Rakesh Das is a Muslim boy.
PW 2 stated that while she asked the fact about community of Rakesh
Das, he confessed that his name is not Rakesh Das rather he is Kabir
Ali and belongs to Muslim community. Thereafter the accused person
detained her for 15 days there. It is also stated that the friends of
Rakesh Das insisted upon her to accept Muslim religion bu she did not
accepted it and returned to Pathsala. On arrival at Pathsala the police
personnel brought them to Police Station and her statement was
recorded. She was also produced before the Magistrate wherein her
statement was recorded by the Magistrate and after that she was
given zimma to her parents. She further deposed that while the police
recorded her statement she did not state before them about the
profession of the father and mother of accused. She also stated that
during the journey from Kamakhya to Hyderabad by train they met
several persons and co-passengers but she stated nothing to them
that Kabir brought her from Pathsala. She also does not know the name
of friends of Kabir who showed the photograph of Kabir praying Namaz.
PW 2 denied the suggestion that knowing the fact of Rakesh is from
Muslim community she developed love affair with him and went to

Page No. 14 of 33
Hyderabad.

17. PW 6 is the Investigating Officer who deposed that during
the course of investigation, he recorded the statement of the witnesses
including the victim girl. It is came to his knowledge that the accused
person got introduced himself before the victim as Rakesh Das and
took away her by inducing. But after arrest it comes to light from the
statement of the accused that his name is Kabir Ali and he belongs to
Muslim community. The 1.0 has also stated that he seized the H.S.LC.
admit card of the victim vide seizure list Ext. 2.

18. In the instant case the accused is charge u/s 419 IPC
among other charges. The ingredients of Section 419 IPC are-

(1) that the accuse cheated some person;
(2) that he cheated him by-

(i) Pretending or representing himself to be some others

person,

(ii) Knowingly substituting or representing one person for
another.

19. From the record reveals that the accused person got
introduced himself as Rakesh Das with the victim girl and developed
relationship of love affairs with her. On his request she came to
Jalukbari to met him and thereafter he took away to Hyderabad by
train and in a Ganesh Mandir of Hyderabad he put vermilion on her
forehead and started to live as husband and wife in a rented house.
The above facts and circumstance of the accused shows that he had a
guilty mind at the time of commission of offence and his conduct also
prove it that with a view to deceive the victim girl he concealed his real
identity.

20. So, it was the boundant duty of the accused person to

prove his innocence that by acting as coming from Muslim community

Page No. 15 of 33
he got introduced with the PW 2 and thereafter he developed love
affairs with the victim and subsequently got married her. PW 1, PW 3,
PW 4, PW 5 also stated that the PW 2 told themselves that the accused
persons when got cross-connection on mobile then he got introduced
himself as Rakesh Das by concealing his real identity. This fact have
been proved by the I/O PW 6 that while he recorded the statement of
accused person u/s 161 Cr.P.C. then the accused person gave his
identity as Kabir Ali and he is from Muslim community. The defence
side did not cross-examine to the I/O in this respect that the accused
person did not give his identity before him as Kabir Ali for which
evidence of this part is remained unchallenged

21. Moreover, the PW 2 the victim specifically stated that one
day the accused introduced himself as Rakesh Das and his father is by
profession a Doctor and mother is a teacher. After that on last
Biswkarma Puja day, he took away the victim to Hyderabad and in
Hyderabad in a Ganesh Mandir, the accused put vermilion on her
forehead and used to stay as husband and wife in a rented house and
during that that time in the said house, Rakesh Das co-habited with
her. After one week of stay one day she went to the working place of
Rakesh Das and then the friends of Rakesh Das told her that Rakesh
Das is a Muslim boy and also shown the photograph of praying Namaz
by Rakesh Das. As and when she asked the fact about community of
Rakesh Das, he confessed that his name is not Rakesh Das rather he is
Kabir Ali and belongs to Muslim community.

22. In| Kanumukkala Krishnamurthy v. State of A.P
reported in AIR 1965 SC 333, the Hon’ble Supreme Court held
that cheating can be committed in either of the two ways described in
Section 415 IPC. “Deceiving a person” is common in both the ways of
cheating. A person deceived may be fraudulently or dishonestly
induced to deliver any property or to consent to the retention of any
property by any person. The person deceived may also be intentionally
induced to do or to omit to do anything which he would not have done
if not deceived and which act of his caused or was likely to cause

Page No. 16 of 33
damage or harm in body, mind, reputation or property.

23.

The relevant observations in Kanumukkala

Krishnamurthy (supra), are reproduced as follows:-

24.

“Cheating can be committed in either of the two ways
described in Section 415 IPC “Deceiving a person” is
common in both the ways of cheating. A person deceived
may be fraudulently or dishonestly induced to deliver any
property or to consent to the retention of any property by
any person. The person deceived may also be
intentionally induced to do or to omit to do anything
which he would not have done if not deceived and which
act of his caused or was likely to cause damage or harm
in body, mind, reputation or property.”

Cheating, as defined under Section 415 IPC has various

forms, which are punishable as offences under Section 417, 418, and

420 IPC. It may be pointed out that cheating by personation has been

specifically defined under Section 416 IPC as follows:-

25.

“416: -Cheating by personation.—A person is said to
“cheat by personation” if he cheats by pretending to be
some other person, or by knowingly substituting one
person for another, or representing that he or any other
person is a person other than he or such other person
really is.

Explanation.—The offence is committed whether the

individual personated is a real or imaginary person.”

Cheating by personation is made punishable under

Section 419 IPC. A reading of Section 415 IPC together with Section
416 IPC makes it clear that though cheating has two different forms,

viz, cheating and cheating by personation. Cheating by personation

Page No. 17 of 33
has been made a distinct offence because the person not only cheats
but he does so by pretending to be some other person, or by knowingly
substituting one person for another, or representing that he or any
other person is a person other than he or such other person really is.
Whereas cheating per se attracts substantive punishment of upto 1
(one) year imprisonment, cheating by personation attracts substantive
punishment of imprisonment upto three years. Thus, it is evident that
cheating by personation is graver and distinct offence than cheating
made punishable under Section 417 IPC.

26. The learned counsel for the accused person submitted
that the victim girl had well known that the accused person belongs to
Muslim community and knowing his fact, she eloped with him on the
day of occurrence. But the parents of the victim girl did not Know about
the fact of love affair, so she filed the ejahar. As the victim had already
known the religion of the accused person, so offence u/s 419 IPC could
not be established by the prosecution side in this case.

27. As against the above, the learned Addl. PP submits that
the accused person concealed his identity by keeping her behind the
darkness of his actual religion with a criminal mind to deceive the
victim, developed love affairs and took to Hyderabad wherein he put
vermilion on her forehead in a Ganesh Manidr. So, it is like an open
page of book that he cheated a minor girl by introducing as Rakesh
Das and as such, prays to convict the accused under the said section.

28. Heard the learned counsel for the accused person and the
learned Addl. PP appearing for the state.

29. It was the boundant duty of the accused person to prove
his innocence that by acting as coming from Muslim community he got
introduced with the PW 2 and thereafter he developed love affairs with
the victim and subsequently got married her. But if we considered the
evidence of PW 1, PW 2, PW 3, PW 4, PW 5 and PW 6 it is found nothing
that the accused firstly introduced with PW 2 by giving his real identity

as coming from Muslim community and his name is Kabir. Had there no

Page No. 18 of 33
any guilty mind from the part of the accused person from the
beginning he had to introduce himself as coming from Muslim
community and his name was Kabir but the facts and circumstances
and the evidence of the witnesses shows that his guilty mind is there
before introducing himself to PW 2. In such a nature of cases mere
denying a fact is not sufficient unless proved by material fact. But the
accused person did not do anything to proof his innocence as required
u/s 114 Cr.P.C.

30. In view of the forgoing discussion, | am of the considered
view that the prosecution has successfully establish the charge u/s 419
IPC.

Now coming to point No. (1)

31. The other charge u/s 366-A IPC is also facing the accused
person in this case.

32. Before going to discuss the evidence that adduced by the
Pws let me see the ingredients of section 366-A IPC are-

(1) that the accused induced a girl;

(2) that eh person induced was a girl under the age of
eighteen years;

(3) that the accused had induced her with intent that she
may be or knowing that it is likely that she will be forced

or seduced to illicit intercourse;

(4) such intercourse must be with a person other than the
accused;

(5) that the inducement caused the girl to go from any
place or to do any act.

33. In the instant case, the victim girl adduced her evidence
before the Court as PW 2. She stated that the accused person on the
day of occurrence called her to Jalukbari and accordingly she came

Page No. 19 of 33
there and after that they went to Hyderabad by train and they had
been living as husband and wife in a rented house. During the period
of staying with the accused person the accused person co-habited with
her and after knowing the fact of his religion though the accused
person detained her for about 15 days.

34. On perusal of Section 366-A of IPC it appears that a
person can be convicted u/s 366-A IPC only if taking away or
enticement is proved. In the instant case the element of taking away
on enticement by accused with force or coercion is found absent.
Moreover, aS mentioned in the above ingredients i.e. “such
intercourse must be with a person other than the accused; is
seemingly missing as the accused person kept her in the rented house
as his wife and co-habited with her.

35. The other witnesses PW 1, PW 3, PW 4 and PW 5 are silent
about the fact that the victim was co habited other than the accused
person while in Hyderabad as they are the not ocular witness of this
case. What they have stated before the court all are stated by hearing

from the victim.

36. In view of the aforesaid discussion, it is found that the
prosecution side has failed to make out a case against the accused
person u/s 366-A IPC.

Point No. (ii)
37. The accused is also facing trial for committing the offence

u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

38. The learned counsel appearing for the accused person
vehemently contended that there is absolutely nothing in the evidence
of the prosecution witnesses which constitute the ingredients of the
offences u/s 4 of POCSO Act. According to the learned defence counsel,
the prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of accused for
sustaining conviction for the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act. As such, the
learned counsel prays to acquit the accused person.

Page No. 20 of 33
39. In the context of the submission it would be in the fitness
of things to refer to section 4 as defined in the POCSO Act 2012.

Penetrative sexual assault. - A person is said to commit

“penetrative sexual assault” if -

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into
the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part
of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina,
the urethra or anus of the child or makes the
child to do so with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the
child so as to cause penetration into the vagina,
urethra, anus or any part of body of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other

person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina,
anus, urethra of the child or makes the child to
do so to such person or any other person.

40. From above, it appears that mere penetration is enough

to constitute of an offence of penetrative sexual assault against a child

and consent is immaterial for commission of the said offence.

Punishment for penetrative sexual assault.-

Whoever commits  penetrative

assault Shall be punished

imprisonment of either description for a
term which shall not be less than seven
years but which may~ extend to
imprisonment for life, and shall also be

Page No. 21 of 33
liable to fine.

41. PW 2 the victim girl in this case has deposed that she got
introduced herself with the accused person through mobile phone and
at first he identified himself as Rakesh Das. Subsequent thereto a
relationship of love had been growing up in between them in such
consequence, one day, on believing and on the request of accused
person, she came to Jalukbari to met him. After that they met each
other and went to Kamakhya Railway Station and boarded train to
Hyderabad. On reaching in Hyderabad, the accused person gave
vermilion on her forehead in a Ganesh Mandir and they were staying in
a rented house. During that period the accused person co-habited with
her. After one week one day while she went to the working place of
Rakesh Das, the friends of Rakesh Das told to her that her husband is a
Muslim boy. At first it was difficult to believe upon it but as and when
the said friend showed her the photograph of offering Namaz by the
Rakesh Das, she understood that her husband belongs to Muslim
community. When she asked about the fact then the accused person
confessed before her that his name is Kabir Ali and he is from Muslim
community. After the said incident the accused person detained her for
about 15 days there and they were living as husband and wife during
these days.

42. The offence u/s 4 of the Protection of Child From Sexual
Offences (POCSO) Act deals with punishment for penetrative sexual
assault. The offence of penetrative sexual assault under POCSO Act
and for that mater other offences also under this Act can be
committed only on a child. The definition of child u/s 2(d) of the POCSO
Act is as follows:

“Child” means any person below age of 18 years.

Thus, a person can be convicted for an offence under
POCSO Act only if the victim is below the age of 18 years.

43. Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Mahadeo S/o Kerba

Page No. 22 of 33
Maske Vs. State of Maharashtra and Anr., (2013) 14 SCC 637,
has held that Rule 12(3) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of

Children) Rules, 2007, is applicable in determining the age of the

victim of rape. Rule 12(3) reads as under:

“Rule 12(3): In every case concerning a child or juvenile in conflict with

law, the age determination inquiry shall be conducted by the court or

the Board or, as the case may be, the Committee by seeking evidence

by obtaining -

44.

(a) (i) the matriculation or equivalent available; and in the
absence whereof, certificates, if

(ii) the date of birth certificate from the school (other than
a play school) first attended; and in the absence whereof;
(iii) the birth certificate given by a corporation or a
municipal authority or a panchayat;

(b) and only in the absence of either (i), (ii) or (iii) of clause
(a) above, the medical opinion will be sought from a duly
constituted Medical Board, which will declare the age of the
juvenile or child. In case exact assessment of the age
cannot be done, the Court or the Board or, as the case may
be, the Committee, or the reasons to be recorded by them,
may, if considered necessary, give benefit to the child or
Juvenile by considering his/her age on lower side within the
margin of one year. and, while passing orders in such case
Shall, after taking into consideration such evidence as may
be available, or the medical opinion, as the case may be,
record a finding in respect of his age and either of the
evidence specified in any of the clauses (a)(i), (ii), (iii) or in
the absence whereof, clause (b) shall be the conclusive
proof of the age as regards such child or the juvenile in
conflict with law.”

Apex Court further held in paragraph 12 of Mahadeo

S/o Kerba Maske (supra) as under -

Page No. 23 of 33
“Under rule 12(3)(b), it is specifically provided that only in
the absence of alternative methods described under Rule
12(3)(a)(i) to (iii), the medical opinion can be sought for. In
the light of such a_ statutory rule prevailing for
ascertainment of the age of the juvenile in our considered
opinion, the same yardstick can be rightly followed by the
courts for the purpose of the ascertaining the age of a

victim as well.”

45. In view of the above position of law this Court therefore
has relied on the HSLC Admit Card issued by the authority in
determining the age of the victim.

46. In the instant case the victim stated as PW 2 that her age
is 17 years. The I/O has seized the HSLC Admit card (Material Ext. 1) of
the victim girl wherein the date of birth is recorded as 01-12-2002. The
incident of taking away the victim had taken place on 16-09-2018 and
as such, it appears that at the time of incident the victim girl was
below 18 years and she was a minor.

47. Ld. Counsel for the accused has argued that as per
H.S.L.C. Admit card the age of victim is about 16 years and the said
age may be vary two years and two years variation of age shall go in
favour of accused. However, | am not agreed with the submission of Ld.
Counsel for the accused as Hon'ble Supreme Court has made it clear
that where there is school certificate or other document. There is no
question of variation of age. Variation may occur in a case of report of
medical evidence as regards the age. However, in the present case
H.S.L.C. Admit card is the best evidence as regards the age of victim
and as such the submission made by Ld. Counsel for the accused is not
tenable in the eye of law.

48. Record reveals that the accused person had taken away
the victim girl without consent from the lawful guardian on the day of

Page No. 24 of 33
occurrence and got married her by introducing as Hindu and after that
he co-habited with her. Though she has not raised objection at the time
of co-habitation but she was a minor girl and her consent is not
required to constitute an offence of POCSO Act, 2012 since minor
consent is no consent.

49. Section 29 of the POCSO Act, where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
Sections 3, 5, 7 and 9 of the Act, the Special Court shall presume that
such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be, unless the contrary is proved.

50. So as per section 29 of the act the evidence of PW 2 can
be presumed that the accused person had committed the offence

unless contrary is proved.

51. PW 2 the victim has categorically stated that she was
taken away by the accused person pretending to be Rakesh Das and
then he committed sexual intercourse with her. Though she wanted to
come back after knowing the actual religion of Rakesh Das but he
detained her about 15 days there and during that period also they

were living as husband and wife.

52. The Learned counsel for the accused has argued on the
point that the investigating officer has not complied with the provision
of the section 24 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and also the provision of
Section 102 Cr.P.C. while conducting investigation. It is also argued that

while the victim was examined the police personnel were in uniform.

53. Per contra the Ld. Addl. PP submits that defective
investigation is not a reason for disbelieving that fact and circumstance
of the case also the evidence of the victim in the circumstances of rape
case corroboration of the fact is not so much necessary if the evidence
of victim is found reliable and trustworthy. There may be some lacuna
on the part of the investigating officer but which means it is not that
the fact is not true.

Page No. 25 of 33
54. At this juncture, this Court has follow the case of C.
Muniappan and Others vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (2010) 9 SCC
567, explained the law on this point in the following manner: "There
may be highly defective investigation in a case. However, it is to be
examined as to whether there is any lapse by the IO and whether due
to such lapse any benefit should be given to the accused.

55. The law on this issue is well settled that the defect
in the investigation by itself cannot be a ground for acquittal. If
primacy is given to such designed or negligent investigations or to the
omissions or lapses by perfunctory investigation, the faith and
confidence of the people in the criminal justice administration would be
eroded.

56. The presumption under Section 29 of the POCSO Act was
not rebutted either by bringing out any favourable reply from the
evidence of the prosecution witnesses or producing documentary
evidence on the side of the defence. On the other hand, in this case,
the evidence of P.W.2, who was minor and aged about 16 years at the
time of occurrence, is crystal clear without giving any room of doubt to
test the veracity of the crime committed by the accused.

57. In the case of POCSO Act, two provisions are there
regarding presumption i.e. 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

58. In the case in hand, the accused has been prosecuted for
committing penetrative sexual assault, as defined in Section 3 of the
Act. Thus, in terms of Section 29 of the Act, this Court is bound to draw
a presumption in favour of the victim that the accused had committed
the offence, unless contrary is proved by the accused. In other words,
the onus is upon the accused to establish that he had not committed
penetrative sexual assault towards the victim. Admittedly, in the
instant case, the accused has not rebutted the said presumption in any
manner just putting the argument. Thus, this Court has no reason to
draw the presumption in favour of the accused.

Page No. 26 of 33
59. Similarly, u/s.30 of POCSO Act, Special Court has to draw
presumption in favour of the prosecution where culpable mental state
is required on the part of the accused. Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state - (1) In
any prosecution for any offence under this Act
which requires a culpable mental state on the part
of the accused, the Special Court shall presume the
existence of such mental state but it shall be a
defence for the accused to prove the fact that he
had no such mental state with respect to the act
charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to
be proved only when the Special Court believes it
to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely
when its existence is established by a
preponderance of prosecution.”

60. Bare perusal of Section 30 of the Act reveals that
whenever a question of culpable mental state on the part of the
accused is required to prove the guilt of the accused, Court shall
presume the existence of said mental state. Though accused can take
the defence to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with
respect to his act but accused has to prove the said fact beyond
reasonable doubt and not by showing its existence by establishing
preponderance of probability. Thus, u/s.30 of the Act, liberty is given to
the accused to take a defence that he had no such mental state of his
act but he has to prove the said fact beyond reasonable doubt.

61. But in the present case, the accused has neither taken any
such defence nor adduced any defene witnesses. Thus, this Court is
bound to draw a presumption that the accused had culpable mental
state of his act.

62. Culpable mental state“ is defined in the explanation to

Page No. 27 of 33
Section 30 of the Act which includes intention, motive, knowledge of a
fact and the belief in, or reason to believe, a fact. To bring home the
guilt of the accused u/s.30 of the Act, prosecution has to establish
sexual intention on the part of the accused but in terms of Section 30
of the Act, Special Court is bound to draw a presumption in favour of
the prosecution that accused had such intention unless presumption is
rebutted by the accused beyond reasonable doubt.

63. The accused person while examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. did not
take any plea to prove himself innocent. Mere denial is not sufficient to
establish his version as trustworthy.

64. Even believing the sole testimony of the victim Court can
record the conviction. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Virendra - Vs -
State of U.P, (2008) 16 SCC 582. The same are reproduced as
under: “The Evidence Act, 1872 does not prescribe any particular age
as a determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On
the contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that:

118. Who may testify - All persons shall be
competent to testify unless the Court consider that
they are prevented from understanding’ the
questions put to them, or from giving rational
answers to those questions, by tender years,
extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind,
or any other cause of the same kind.”

65. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she
has intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational
answers thereto. The evidence of a child witness is not required to be
rejected per-se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such
evidence with close scrutiny and only on being convinced about the
quality thereof and reliability can record conviction, based thereon.

Page No. 28 of 33
66. In the case of Ratansinh Dalsukhbahai Nayak - Vs -
State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on
the question whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence
primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his manners, his
apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and the said Judge may
resort to any examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and
intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an oath. In
the instant case there is no other element in the evidence of victim
except believing her fact as stated by her as true.

67. In another case Dattu Ramrao Sakhare - Vs - State of
Maharashtra, (1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held as follows: “A child
witness if found competent to depose to the facts and reliable one such
evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other words, even in the
absence of oath the evidence of a child witness can be considered u/s.
118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to
understand the questions and able to give rational answers thereof.
The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof would depend
upon the circumstances of each case. The only precaution which the
Court should bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child
witness is that the witness must be a reliable one and _ his/her
demeanour must be like any other competent witness and there is no
likelinood of being tutored.”

68. In the present case, the deposition of the victim stands
well corroborated with the statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C by the Ld.
Magistrate. Though the witnesses were cross-examined in full length,
but nothing has come on record, which could suggest that the
prosecution case is false in any aspect or that the prosecution
witnesses are not deposing the truth. PW 2 in her evidence also the
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. stated that the accused person took away her
to Hyderabad and stayed in a rented house wherein the accused

Page No. 29 of 33
person cohabited with her. | find the deposition of the victim and and
other witnesses to be cogent, convincing and reliable. Irrespective of
any support from Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act, 2012 the
prosecution case in fact stands well proved from the deposition of the

victim.

69. In the considered view of this Court, the prosecution has
clearly established in proving beyond shadow of all reasonable doubt
that accused Kabir Ali had committed penetrative sexual assault on the

victim.

70. In the result, | find that prosecution has establish this case
against the accused Kabir Ali u/s 419 IPC r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act,
2012 and as such, the accused person can be held guilty under the
said sections and accordingly convicted thereunder. But the
prosecution side failed to prove the case charge u/s 366-A IPC against
Kabir Ali beyond all reasonable doubt and hence, he is acquitted from
the charge u/s 366-A IPC.

HEARING ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE

71. The accused is heard on the point of sentence. He has
submitted before the Court that he he has old ailing parents in his
house and he is the only earning member of his family and hence
prayed for leniency.

72. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court
should strike a balance between the aggravating circumstances and
the mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to
the crime and the mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In
this case, so far as the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a
minor girl was sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not
only to the body, but also to the mind of not only the victim, but that of
the entire family members. The stigma, which she is going to carry for
ever is not erasable. Thus, the aggravating circumstances are so grave

Page No. 30 of 33
in nature.

73. Turning to the mitigating circumstances, the accused was
not involved in any other crime, prior to the incident. The statute under
Section 4 of POCSO Act prescribes a minimum punishment for a term of
7 (seven) years with fine. When the intention of legislature is to impose
stringent punishment for not less than seven years, this Court has got

no option except to impose minimum punishment for 7 (Seven) years.
© R OD E R

74. Accordingly | convict the accused Kabir Ali u/s 419 IPC and
sentenced him to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for 3 years and fine
of Rs. 5,000/- and I.d. of payment of fine to undergo R.I for 6 (six)
months. The fine amount of Rs. 5,000/- if recover be deposited into the
account of Taluk Legal Service Committee, Bajali. Further the accused
person is convicted u/s 4 of POCSO Act and sentence him to R.I. for 7
(Seven) years and also to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten
Thousand only), in default, R.I. for 6 (six) months. The fine amount of
Rs. 10,000/- if recover be handed over to the victim as compensation
u/s 357 (A) Cr.P.C. Both the sentences of imprisonment would run
concurrently. The period of detention during investigation and trial be
set off from the period of imprisonment imposed on him.

75. A copy of the order be sent to the Secretary, DLSA,
Barpeta for necessary action.

76. A copy of this judgment be given to the accused free of
cost and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Barpeta.

78. The accused/convict has been informed about his right to
appeal against this judgment before the Hon’ble Gauhati High Court.

79. The seized article be disposed of after appellate period. A
copy of this order be given to PSI, Bajali.

80. The Spl. POCSO Case is disposed of accordingly.

Page No. 31 of 33
81. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court
in presence of both the parties and | put my hand and seal of this Court
on this 3rd day of October, 2019.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
Dictated & Corrected
by me

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Dictation taken and transcribed
by me.
(Alakesh Das, Steno)

Page No. 32 of 33
Oral evidences :-

PW-1 Smti Manju Roy
PW-2 Victim

PW-3 Smti Kalyani Roy
PW-4 Sri Santosh Roy
PW-5 Smti Gitanjali Nath
PW-6 Sailen Kr Kalita

Documentary evidence :-

Ext.-1. Ejahar

Ext. -2 Seizure List

Ext.-3- Statement of victim
Ext.-4 - Extract copy of GDE
Ext.-5- Sketch Map

Ext.-6- Charge-sheet

Material Evidence:
Ext. 1- HSLC Admit Card.

Defence evidence.
Nil.

APPENDIX :-

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Page No. 33 of 33
