IN THE COURT OF THE ADDL. SPECIAL JUDGE (F.T.C),
LAKHIMPUR, NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

PRESENT

Sri P.C. Kalita, A.J.S.,

Additional Special Judge (F.T.C.),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Special (POCSO) Case No.32/2016.
U/s-376/493/420 of IPC, R/w-Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam

-Versus-
Sri Puna Behera, ...... Accused.

APPEARANCE

For the State : Mr. M.Gogoi, Ld. Special P.P.

For the Accused : Mrs. Ivy Gogoi, Ld. Advocate (LAC).

Date of evidence > 15.12.2018, 17.12.2018, 04.01.2019,
05.01.2019.

Argument heard on : 07.01.2019.

Judgment delivered on  : 07.01.2019.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, inter-alia, in brief, is that informant
Sri Narayan Bhadra lodged an ejahar (Ext.4) on 01.06.2016 at
Silonibari O.P. under North Lakhimpur P.S. alleging that the accused
person namely, Sri Puna Behera committed rape on his daughter ( the
prosecutrix), aged about 16 years, giving false promise to marry her
on the pretext of love affairs with her since last one year.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, the O/C, North Lakhimpur P.S.
registered a case vide N.L.P.S. Case No.525/2016 u/s- 376/493/420 of
IPC and then the police conducted the investigation of the case and
after completion of the investigation submitted charge-sheet u/s-
376/493/420 of IPC, R/w- Sec.4 of POCSO Act against the accused
person namely, Sri Puna Behera.

3. The case is received by this Court on transfer for
disposal. On appearance of the accused person before this Court, copy
is furnished to him. After hearing Ld. Advocates of both sides and
perusing the materials on record, charge under section- 376/493/420
of IPC, R/w- Sec.4 of POCSO Act are framed against the accused
person, the same are read over and explained to them to which they
have pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial prosecution has examined as many as 6 (six)
witnesses. Considering the stand of the prosecution witnesses
examined and also at the instance of Ld. Special P.P., prosecution
evidence is closed. The accused person is examined under section 313
of the Cr.P.C. The pleas of the accused person are of total denial and

he has declined to adduce any defence evidence.

3. POINT FOR DETERMINATION:

i) Whether the accused persons, since about one year
before 01.06.2016 at Silonibari Tea Garden Bahbari Line under
North Lakhimpur P.S., had committed rape on Smti Albina Bhadra
aged about 16 years), daughter of informant- Sri Narayan Bhadra,
giving false promise to marry her,, and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 376 of the IPC, as alleged?

ii) Whether the accused persons deceitfully caused the
victim girl Smti Albina Bhadra, whom you did not marry, to believe
that she was married to you, and in that belief, to cohabit with you or
have sexual intercourse with you, and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 493 of the IPC, as allegd ?

iii) Whether the accused persons had cheated the victim
girl Smti Albina Bhadra by dishonestly inducing her to deliver the
property belonging to her name to you ( or to make, alter or destroy
the whole or any part of a valuable security or anything signed or
sealed, which is capable of being created as valuable security), and
thereby committed an offence punishable under section 420 of the
IPC, as alleged?

(iv) Whether the accused person, on the same date, time
and place, after inducing the victim girl, had committed penetrative
sexual assault on her person, and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 4 of POCSO Act, as alleged ?

DISCUSSIONS, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

6. I have carefully perused the evidence and the materials
available in the case record. Heard arguments advanced by the Ld.
Advocates of both sides. Now, let us examine the evidence on record
to decide the case at hand.

7. PW.1, Smti Atuary Verla @ Vedra (wife of informant),
stated that the victim girl is her daughter. She knows the accused
person. The occurrence took place about one year back. The accused
person caused pregnancy of his victim daughter and later on, a male
child was born to her said daughter, who is now one year old. Her
victim daughter along with her child is staying in her house at present.
The present age of her victim daughter is about 15/ 16 years. Her
husband lodged the ejahar in connection with the alleged occurrence
at the P.S. Police got the victim girl medically examined and got her
statement recorded in the Court.

8. PW.2, Dr. Pinchana Namchum (M/O), stated that on
01.06.2016, she was serving as Medical & Health Officer-I at North
Lakhimpur Civil Hospital and on that day, at about 3:00 p.m., on that
day, she medically examined the victim (PW4), daughter of Sri
Narayan Bhadra, resident of Silanibari T.E., P.S.- North Lakhimpur

and on examination she found as follows:-
Relevant Medical history:- According to the victim girl, she had
sexual intercourse for many times with her lover Puna Behera since

December, 2015 and since that she has become pregnant.

Findings of Medical examination:

. Identification mark :- A back spot on right side of face.

. Height & weight :- 4 ft. & 45 kg.

. General configuration : Young.

Teeth : 28 Nos. in total.

Breast : developed.

. (i) Axillary hair : present

(ii) Pubic hair : present.

7. Private Parts:

(ij) Vulva’: healthy.

(ii) Vagina : Normal admits three fingers.

(iii) Hymen_ : absent.

(iv) Uterus : As USG report done on1.6.2016 at Meri
Ultra sound and X-ray, a single living foetus in the
gravid uterus in vertex of about 16 weeks size.

AunKRWNE

8. Laboratory examination for spermatozoa detection: No
spermatozoa seen (Slide No.94/ 01.6.16).

9. Ossification test for age determination: Present age of the
person concerned is above 15 years and below 17 years. (X
ray No.R.972, N.L.C.H.).

10. External injury : No external injury over the private parts
and other parts of her body.

Opinion: No evidence of recent sexual intercourse. She is

having pregnancy of 16 weeks. Her age is above 15 years but below

17 years.

Ext.2 is her medical report and Ext.2 (1) is her signature
thereon.
9. PW.3, Sri Narayan Bhadra (informant cum father of

victim), stated that he knows the accused person. The occurrence took
place about 2 years back. There was love affair between the accused
person and his daughter. Despite giving promise, the accused person

did not marry his daughter and so, he lodged this case against him.
The accused person never did any bad acts upon his daughter. His
victim daughter also has not disclosed as from whose side she became
pregnant. Ext.4 is the ejahar lodged by him and Ext.4(1) is his

signature thereon.

10. PW.4, the victim girl, stated that the informant is her
father. She knows the accused person. She also stated that despite
giving promise to marry her, the accused person did not marry her and
so, her father lodged this case against the accused. The accused person
never did any bad acts upon her. She does not know as to from whose
side she became pregnant.

11. PW5, Iswar Bhadra, stated that he knows both the
parties. The occurrence took place about 2 years back. There was love

affair between the accused and the victim. Other than this, he knows

nothing.
12. PW6, Sri Rajesh Barla, stated in the same tune as stated
by PW5.
Appreciation of evidence:
(Offence u/s- 376 of IPC
13. Here, the victim girl (PW4) is the prime witness in the

instant case. Her evidence is that she had love affairs with the accused
person prior to the alleged incident and due to not marrying her by the
accused person, her father lodged this case only on suspicion against
the accused person.

During cross, PW4 (victim girl) stated that she has no
any allegation against the accused person. She gave her statement
before the Court as per instruction of the police.

Thus, it is seen that the victim girl in her deposition

nowhere uttered a single word that the accused committed rape on her.
Rather, she stated that she has no allegation against the accused.

14. The version of the informant, father of the victim girl
(PW3) is that the accused person did not marry his daughter though
they had love affairs between them. The accused person never did any
bad acts upon his daughter.

15. PW3, PW5 and PW6 are not eye witnesses to see the
occurrence. They do not support at all the prosecution case.

16. PW2 is the M/O. She found no recent sexual intercourse
on the victim (PW4).

17. Offence u/s- 493 of IPC.

There is no evidence on record to show that the accused
had cohabited with the victim (PW4) with a false promise to marry
her.

18. Offence w/s- 420 of IPC.

Prosecution witnesses did not state that accused cheated
the victim (PW4) in any manner.

19. Offence u/s- 4 of POCSO Act.

The prosecutrix (PW4), in her deposition nowhere stated
that the accused person had committed any sexual assault on her
person. Rather, she stated that the accused person did not commit any
wrong upon her. Her father lodged this case, due to not getting marry
her by the accused person.

PW3, PW5 and PW6 do not support at all the prosecution
case.

PW2, the M/O, found no any evidence of recent sexual
intercourse on the victim (PW4).

It is thus, seen that the ingredients of offence u/s- 4 of

POCSO Act are lacking in this present case.
20. In view of the above discussions and considering all
aspects, I hold that the prosecution has failed to prove the case wu/s-
376/493/420 of IPC, R/w- Sec. 4 of POCSO Act against the accused
person beyond all reasonable doubts. Hence, I acquit him from the
said offences.

21. The accused person is set at liberty forthwith.

22. The case is disposed of accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 7"

day of January, 2019.

(P.C. Kalita)
Addl. Special Judge (FTC),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Dictated & Corrected by me:

(P.C. Kalita)
Addl. Sessions Judge (FTC),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by me:
Sri D. Chetia, (Steno)

APPENDIX:
Prosecution witnesses:
PW.1, Smti Atuary Verla @ Vedra
PW.2, Dr. Pinchana Namchum
PW.3, Sri Narayan Bhadra
PW.4, the victim girl
PWS5, Iswar Bhadra
PWE6, Sri Rajesh Barla,

Prosecution exhibits:

Ext. 1- Statement u/s- 164, Cr.P.C.
Ext.2 - Medical report

Ext.3 - Ultrasound report.

Ext.4- Ejahar.
Defence witnesses:

Nil.

Defence exhibits:
Nil

( P.C. Kalita)
Addl. Special Judge (F.T.C),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
