1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 13/2018 corresponding
to GR Case No. 478/2018 & Dokmoka
Police Station Case No. 24/2018

U/S 363 of the IPC/ 4 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Prafulla Bordoloi

Name of informant/complainant:

Smt Asina Basumatary

Wife of Sri Budhu Basumatary
Vill: Ajarguri

PS: Dokmoka

Dist: Karbi Anglong, Assam.

Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Prafulla Bordoloi

S/O Sri Deep Bordoloi
Vill- Borkhula

P.S: Nagaon Sadar
District: Nagaon, Assam.

Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor

For the defence : Mr. G. Deka
Date(s) fixed for Argument:
07.03.2019/20.03.2019/01.04.2019
2|Page

Judgment pronounced & delivered on: 09.04.2018.

UDGMENT

1. It is a case of Kidnapping of a minor girl and
penetrative sexual assault on her alleged to have
been committed by the accused person.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 10-05-
2018 the informant named above lodged a written
ejahar with Dokmoka Police Station stating inter-alia
that on 07-05-2018 at 10 AM while the victim came
to Langhin, the accused person took away her
forcibly on temptation of marrying her. On receipt
the written ejahar, Dokmoka_ Police Station
registered a criminal case vide Dokmoka Police
Station Case No. 24-18 under section 363 IPC and
started investigation. On completion of
investigation, the charge sheet was submitted
under section 363 IPC/4 of the POCSO Act against
the accused person. On completion of investigation,
the charge sheet was submitted under sections 366
IPC/8 of the POCSO Act against the accused person.
Hence the prosecution has come up.

3. On completion of appearance of the present
accused person before the Court, Copy was
supplied to the accused person. Having very
carefully gone through submissions of learned
lawyers of both sides as well as case diary | found
that there was ground for presuming that that the
accused person committed the offenses U/Ss 363 of
the IPC/4 of the POCSO Act and accordingly, the
charges were framed. The particular of the offence
charged was duly read over and explained to the
3|Page

accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many
as 8 (eight) witnesses including the informant.
Statement of the present accused was recorded
under section 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence has declined to
adduce evidence. Plea of defense is of total denial.

Points for determination

(i) Whether the present accused person
alongwith other five accused persons on
07.05.2018 at about 10:00 AM at Ajarguri
gaon under Dokmoka Police Station
kidnapped victim from the possession of
the informant who was legal guardian?

(ii) Whether the accused on / after 07-05-
2017 at about 10 PM at Ajarguri gaon
under Dokmoka Police Station or in any
other place made penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal
arguments advanced by the learned counsels of
both sides as well as evidence on record. At the
very outset, the learned counsel appearing on
behalf of the accused person has contended that
the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the
4|Page

case beyond all reasonable doubts. On the other
hand, the learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka
refuting the aforesaid submission has submitted
that the prosecution has succeeded in establishing
its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival
submissions, it would be appropriate to give a
glance at evidence record.

At first let us see how the victim was old the
time of occurrence. According to PW-1 who is the
mother of the victim, at the time of occurrence the
victim was 15 years. According to PW-2, at the time
of occurrence the victim was 15 years. Evidence of
PW-3 and PW-4 is silent as to how old victim was at
the time occurrence. PW-6 is the medical officer
who examined the victim and according to her the
victim was above 18 years at the time of
occurrence as per X-report. According to victim, at
the time of occurrence she was 16 years. M-Ext-1 is
the birth certificate of the victim which shows that
her date of birth is 27-11-2002. According to M-Ext-
1, at the time of occurrence the victim was 15 years
5 months 10 days. It appears that M-Ext-1 was
issued on 31-11-10 i.e it was obtained almost after
8 years from the date of her birth. Ext-2 is the
seizure list by which one original Birth certificate in
the name of victim was seized. Ext-2 also shows
that in the certificate date of birth of the victim is
shown as 27.11.2002 and date of issue is shown as
31.12.2010. There is a doubt whether actual date of
birth was given in M-Ext-1. Ext-4 is the statement of
the victim record under section 164 of the CrPC
which shows that at the time of occurrence she was
5|Page

10.

17 years. Taking all aspects into consideration | find
that there is doubt that at the time of occurrence,
the victim was below 18 years. In view of the
discussion made above, it has become crystal clear
that the victim was not child as defined in the
section 2 (d) of the POCSO Act.

In such case evidence of the victim plays vital
role.PW-7 is the victim who has admitted in her
cross-examination that she fled away with the
accused person on her sweet will. Her evidence
shows that the accused made sexual intercourse
with her with her consent. That apart she has also
stated in her cross-examination that she does not
desire the accused to be punished.

ORDER

In the result | find that the prosecution has failed
to prove its case against the accused person
beyond all reasonable doubt. On benefit of doubt,
the accused person is here by acquitted from the
charges brought against him and let him set at
liberty forthwith. Let the seized certificate be
remained with the informant. The bail bond shall be
stood cancelled after six months. Accordingly this
case is disposed of on contest.

Given under my hand and seal of the Court on
this 09" April, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me.
6|Page

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi Anglong,
