Page 1 of 7

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge
Date of Recording Evidence
Date of examination of accused.u/s

313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel.for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

33 of 2018
(Under Section 18 of POCSO Act)
Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge,
Sonitpur :Tezpur
State of Assam

-“Vs-

1. Md. Jainal Abedin,
Son of Late Ahmed*Ali
Resident of Borsola
Police Station=Dhekiajuli
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam.

20-08-2018.

06-10-2018

06-10-2018

06-10-2018

06-10-2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

S. Khan, Advocate.
Page 2 of 7
JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md. Jainal Abedin is put for trial for allegation
of charge u/s 18 of POCSO Act.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on 09-
04-2018 at about 5 p.m. informant’s minor daughter while returned from
her aunt’s house accused restrained her and dragged her inside the
jungle and forcefully torn her clothes and attempted to commit rape on
her. It is also mentioned that the accused who has enlarged\on bail
connection with Dhekiajuli PS case No. 79/18. On hearing, hulla of
informant’s daughter, his wife Musstt Monuwara Khatoon rushed to the
place of occurrence and on being seen her accused person:fled away. He
could not file the ejahar in time because of his.indisposition. Hence, this
prosecution case. The informant Md. Ibrahim\Ali, has filed the ejahar
before the O/C of Dhekiajuli Police station on.17-04-2018.

3. On being receipt the ejahar, O/C Dhekiajuli Police Station
registered a case being Dhekiajuli PsS.“Case No. 291/18 u/s 376/511 of
IPC read with section 8,of the POCSO Act. After completion of usual
investigation, the O/C_Dhekiajuli Police Station sent up the case for trial
against the accused ‘Md. Jainal Abedin u/s 376/511 of IPC read with
section 8 of the POGSO Act.

4. On, beingwappeared the accused person before this Court, after
hearing both parties, framed charge u/s 18 of the POCSO Act against the
accused Md. Jainal Abedin. Particulars of the charge were read over,
explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to
be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined four numbers of
witnesses i.e. the complainant, mother of the victim, victim and another
material witness. After recording the statement of the aforesaid
witnesses, learned counsel for the accused submitted to close the
evidence on the ground that the statement of the complainant, victim and
other material witnesses no way reveals any materials against the

accused as to the alleged offence. Hence, it would be futile to examine

 
Page 3 of 7

the other witnesses. I have heard the learned Public Prosecutor who also
conceded.

6. On close scrutiny of the statement of the witnesses recorded so
far, I have come to the conclusion that with the evidence of the said
witnesses prosecution case would not develop even if examined the other
witnesses.

7. Speedy trial is the right of the accused person. Considering all
these aspects, prosecution evidence is closed. Statement of the accused is
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and
the evidence appears against the accused are put before him for his
explanation where he denied the allegation and declined »to» adduce
defence evidence.

8. I have also heard the argument put*forward by the learned

counsels of both sides.
9. The points for decision‘in‘this case is that -

(1) “Whether on or about 5.p.m. of 09-04-2018 at Dhupguri, under
Dhekiajuli Police station,the accused attempted to commit any offence
punishable under the POCSO Act or to cause such an offence to be
committed and in such attempt, does any act towards the commission
of the .offence,.on Miss "X", aged about 16 years , and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 18 of the POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

10%, \Tovarrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence

on‘record.

21. = PW 1, complainant Md. Ibrahim Ali deposed before the court that
victim is his daughter, who is aged about 15/16 years. The incident took
place about 7/8 months ago in the month of Aghun/Push in the evening
time. On the day of incident he was at home. In the evening, his
daughter went to the house of her aunt. On return, on the way she saw
the accused and being frightened she ran towards home by crying. On
asking she told that this accused and another person were standing in the
jungle near the road. On being asked she did not state anything against

the accused person. Then the filed the ejahar. His daughter gets afraid of

 
Page 4 of 7

the accused as he was in jail earlier in other case. He does not know the

contents of the ejahar. The ejahar was written by one scribe.

In cross-examination he does not know the name of the scribe
who has written the ejahar. Accused person resides at a little distance
from their house. Quarrel took place in between him and the accused
prior to the incident so his daughter was afraid to see the accused on the

jungle near the road.

12. PW 2, Monuwara Khatoon, mother of the victim, stated that
accused is her neighbour. Victim is her daughter who is aged about 15/16
years. Complainant is her husband. The incident took, place.about 6/7
months ago in the evening time. On the day of. incident,she was at
home. In the evening, while her daughter returned\from her aunty’s
house, she met the accused and other one person on the road. On being
seen them her daughter raised alarm and on hearing her alarm she along
with her husband rushed to the place. When she enquired their daughter,
she told that out of fear she.raised ‘alarm. Her husband filed the case
against the accused as in\earlier® occasion accused was in jail in

connection with some othercase.

In cross-examination, she admitted that quarrel took place in
between them «and the accused prior to the incident. On being seen the

accused, Out.of fear her daughter raised alarm.

13 \PW.3 Najrul Islam, stated that he knows the accused as well as
the. victim. He came to know about the incident when he arrived from
Kerela. He heard that an incident took place with the daughter of Ibrahim
other than that he did not hear anything.

14. PW 4 the victim Miss X, stated that accused is her neighbor.
Complainant is her father. The incident took place about 6/7 months ago
in the evening time. In the evening when she returned from the house of
her aunty, she saw accused Jainal and one Sahar were standing on the
side of the road. On being seeing them, she raised alarm. On hearing her
alarm her parents along with some local persons visited the place of

occurrence. Thereafter, her father informed the matter to the police. The

 
Page 5 of 7

accused person did not commit any misdeed to her. As there was evening
dark so at first she did not recognize the accused persons and therefore,
out of fear she raised alarm. After instituting the case, police came,
recorded her statement, sent her to the doctor and to the learned court
for recording my statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 1 is her statement
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and 1(1) and 1(2) are her signatures.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she mad statement

before the learned Magistrate according to the instruction of police.

15. | These much is the evidence of the prosecution case.
16. Learned counsel for the accused submitted to acquit the ‘accused
as the victim herself did not implicate the accused.in.any of the alleged
offence. She herself stated that on being seen the accused standing near
the road side she could not recognize the accused\as there was a dark
evening and hence she raised alarm and hearing her alarm her parents
and other neighbour reached there.
17. Ihave also heard the learned, Public Prosecutor.
18. To prove the charge ‘u/s 18°0f the POCSO Act, the prosecution
must prove that —
“To convict the accused section 18 of POCSO Act the prosecution
must prove that accused attempted to commit any offence
punishable under this act or to cause such an offence to be
committed, and in such attempt, does any Act towards the

commission of the offence.”

19, \ In this type of case, the statement of the victim is utmost
important. When the victim did not support the prosecution case it would
be futile to discuss the statement of other witnesses. It is again stated
that PW 4, the victim who stated that at the relevant time while she
returned in the evening dark from her aunty’s house she could not
recognize the accused so out of fear she raised alarm. On hearing her
alarm her parents and other neighbour reached there. She clearly stated
that accused did not commit any misdeed to her. Under such

circumstances, no ingredients of the alleged offence could fulfil in the

 
Page 6 of 7

statement of the victim. Similarly, other witnesses were also could not

implicate the accused in any of the ingredients of the alleged charge.

20. Under such circumstances, I have come to the conclusion that the
prosecution has failed to prove the case against the accused Md. Jainal
Abedin beyond any reasonable doubt. As such, he is acquitted from the
charge u/s 18 of the POCSO Act and set him at liberty forthwith.

21. =‘ The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the.6™ day of
October, 2018.

(A.K: Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(A.K. Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
Prosecution Witness No.1

Prosecution Witness No.2

Prosecution Witness No.3

Prosecution Witness No.4

Exhibit 1

Page 7 of 7

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

= Complainant Md. Ibrahim Ali,
i Manowara Khatoon.
. Najrul Islam

- Victim Miss X.

Exhibit.
:- 164 Cr.P.C. statement of victim.

(A.K=Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
