SESS 69 (DH) OF 2015

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri A. Hazarika,A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge,
Dhemaji,

 

JUDGMENT IN SESSIONS CASE No, 69(DH)201
(G.R. Case No.02/2015 (SLP); Silapathar P.S. Case No.02/2015 Under Sections 448/ 376(1)/34 of
the Indian Penal Code)

The State of Assam

- Versus —
1. Shri Santosh Sarkar
2. Shri Juren Sarkar and

3. Shri Bolaram Biswas Pe ee er eee a see teen Accused Persons.

Committing Magistrate:-

Shri U. Borah,

Judicial Magistrate, 1% Class,
Dhemaji.

Appearance:

Shri P.C. Boruah,

PO i For the State
Shri K.C. Sonowal and

Shri N. Buragohain
saponins For the Accused persons

Date of committal : 22-06-2015.
Date of Charge : 29-06-2015.
Date of prosecution evidence : 07-06-2016, 04-01-2016,
Date of recording Statement of Accused : 21-02-2017.
Date of defence evidence : Nil.
Date of arguments : 20-03-2017
Date of Judgment : 03-04- 2017.

1

$ 5 suage

Dremall
SESS 69 (DH) OF 2015

JUDGMENT

Case of the Prosecution:

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 02-01-2015 Shri Sanatan Sarkar, S/O Late-
Tarapad Sarkar, R/O Vill. Baligaon , P.S. Silapathar, District- Dhemaji filed an FIR to the
effect that on 01-01-2015 at night at about 10.30P.M. while his daughter-the victim
(hereinafter referred to as “X”) was witnessing film on Mobile Phone in the house of her
uncle-Shri Subhash Mandal , the accused persons- Shri Santosh Sarkar, Shri Bolai Mandal
and Shri Juren Kudail in furtherance of common intention committed house trespass into the
house of Subhas Mandal and took his daughter-X to a nearby field and then accused
Santosh Sarkar committed rape on her gagging her mouth . It is also alleged in the FIR that
accused-Santosh Sarkar armed with a bamboo lathi, threatened complainant’s niece Smt.
Sephali Mandal to kill her. Hence, the case.

2. Thereafter, Police registered a case being Silapathar P.S. Case No. 02/2015 u/s
448/376(1)/34. of the I.P.C. and investigated it, and on the basis of the materials available,
charge sheet was submitted under Sections 448/376(1)/34 of the Indian Penal Code against
the accused persons.

3. The case being exclusively triable by the Sessions Court the same was committed to the
Court of Sessions, Dhemaji by the Judicial Magistrate, 1* Class, Dhemaji on 22-06-2015.

Charge:

4. Charges Under Sections 450/376(D)/34 of the Indian Penal Code was framed against the
accused persons by the court on 29-06-2015 to which the accused person pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried.

Evidence:
5. To prove the guilt of the accused, Prosecution examined three witnesses.

5.(a) PW-1 Shri Sanatan Sarkar has stated that he knew all the accused persons present in
the dock. The victim X is his daughter. Smt. Sephali Mandal is his niece. Father of Sephali
Mandal i.e. Shri Subhash Mandal is his brother-in-law. The incident was of January, 2015.
His daughter X was in the house of Subhash Mandal. Accused Santosh Mandal committed
rape on X at night. On the following day of occurrence when he went to the house of
Subhash Mandal, X told him about the incident. He further told him that accused-Santosh
pulled her to the field and committed rape on her. He has also evidenced that X had stated
before him that other two accused-Bolaram and and Juren were standing nearby her. He had
filed the case after knowing about the incident. He put thumb impression on the FIR. At that
time age of X was 14/15 years.

During the cross examination of the witness, he has stated that he is an illiterate
person. The FIR was written by another person as per his version. He has further stated that
he cannot say when X was born. Sephali is older than his daughter-X. Presently, age of his
daughter is 17/18 years. X stated before him that accused-Santosh committed rape on her
pulling her to a field from the house. He does not know whether X shouted or not at the
time of occurrence. There was a house near the house of Subhash Mandal but, he did not
know the name of that person. He also did not ask Sephali about the incident. It is refuted
that the accused did not commit rape on his daughter. It is also refuted that accused-
Santosh assaulted X for witnessing bad cinema on mobile.

Gensions LUdG:
fremail
SESS 69 (DH) OF 2015

In cross-examination for Juren Sarkar and Bolaram Biswas, he has stated that he does
not know whether accused-Juren Sarkar and Bolaram Biswas were along with accused-
Santosh Sarkar.

5 (b). PW-2 Shri Ajoy Sarkar stated that he knew all the 3 accused persons present in the
dock. Sanatan Sarkar is his brother-in-law and victim X is his niece. The accused are-
Santosh Sarkar, Juren and Bolaram..It was about 2 years back His house is situated about a
distance of 5 km. from the house of Sanatan. He knew about the incident from Sanatan
when he went to file the case and he was told that the accused had tortured X and had
beaten her. Police made him as witness. Police had seized some clothes from X and he had
signed the same.

This witness exhibited Ext-1 as the Seizure List and Ext-1(1) as his signature. Material
Exhibit-1 are the clothes which were seized by the police and it were seen by him in the
Court.

During the cross examination for all the accused persons, he stated that he had put his
signature in the Police Station.

5.(c ) PW3 is the victim X who has deposed that she knew all the 3 accused person present
in the dock. They are- Santosh Sarkar, Juren and Bali Mandal. Sanatan Sarkar is her father.
About 2 years ago, at night at about 10 PM, she was in the house of Subhash Mandal (her
uncle) and her aunt Bakuli Mandal and her sister Sephali Mandal were there. She was
watching film in the mobile. Then Santosh came and asked her why she was watching film
and so she ran away from there to her home. They did not rape her. Her father had filed the
case. Police recorded her statement. Police also did her medical.

The defence declined to cross examine the witnesses.

Statement of Accused under Section 313 Cr.PC and Defence Evidence:

6. The statement of the accused-Shri Santosh Sarkar, Bolaram Biswas and Juren Sarkar
were recorded under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on 21-02-2017 where
the accused person denied the charges and stated that they were falsely implicated in this
case.

 

Point For Determination

 

7. The moot point for determination is as to whether the accused persons-Shri Santosh
Sarkar, Bolaram Biswas and Juren Sarkar, in furtherance of common intention, had
committed house trespass by entering into the dwelling house of Subhash Mandal and
committed rape on the victim X and thus committing an offence punishable under Section
450/376(D)/ 34 of the Indian Penal Code ?

Discussion and Conclusions

8. I have heard Shri K.C. Sonowal and Shri N. Buragohain, the learned counsels for the
defence as well as the Shri P.C. Boruah, the learned Public Prosecutor. I have also perused
the evidence and other materials on record.

3 -
+4 est
agagions JUao
Dremail
SESS 69 (DH) OF 2015

9. The case of the prosecution is that the accused-Santosh Sarkar along with other accused
had forcefully taken the victim ‘x’ from the house of Subhash Mandal and thereafter raped
her in the field.

PW1, the informant in his evidence has stated that the victim ‘x’ , who was his daughter
had gone to the house Subhash Mandal where she was raped by the accused. On the day
after the incident, when he had gone to the house of Subhash Mandal, the victim had told
him about the incident of the accused Santosh Sarkar having pulled her to the field and
raping her, while the other accused Bolaram and Juren was standing nearby. However, the
victim ‘xX’ , PW-3, has categorically evidenced before this Court that while she was in the
house of Subhash Mandal, she was watching a movie in her mobile and during that time
accused Santosh Sarkar had come and scolded her for watching movie to which, she ran
away from there. The victim ‘X’ has gone to evidence that the accused had not raped her.
Therefore it is seen that the evidence of PW-1 is stark contrast to what has been evidenced
by the victim. Even the evidence of PW2 which is more of hear-say in nature as he got to
know about the incident only from PW1. But upon perusal thereof, it is seen that even PW2
in his evidence has stated that PW1 had only told him that the accused had tortured the
victim ‘X’ and had beaten her. The material contradictions of evidence tendered by the victim
(PW3) and PW2 with that of PW1 the informant reveals that they are in antipodes and the
said lacunas creates a doubt in the mind of this Court about the entire prosecution case.

It may also be noted that the victim has entirely silent about the part taken by accused-
Juren Sarkar and Bolaram Biswas in the commission of the said offence, which is another
lacuna found in the evidence tendered by the victim herself. The prosecution has not
tendered the evidence of any other cogent witness which may support the case of the
Prosecution. There is no evidence on record as to how the accused Santosh Sarkar and even
the other accused had entered into the house of Subhash Mandal and if at all the same was
a criminal trespass.

The fact that the victim herself has not collaborated the story of the prosecution along
with the evidence of other witnesses, who are also not found believable and the fact that the
prosecution has not laid any other cogent and reliable evidence to prove the case of the
prosecution by adducing the evidence of those members in whose house the victim is
alleged to have stayed during occurrence of the incident i.e. Subhash Mandal, Sabita Mandal
etc. leads the Court to disbelieve the case of the prosecution, and as such, the accused
persons cannot be said to have committed such offences of having criminally trespassed into
the house of Subhash Mandal and of having committed rape upon the victim X by taking her
to the fields.

10. In view of the evidence on record and the discussion as aforesaid, this Court is of the
considered opinion that there is no cogent and reliable evidence which implicate the
accused persons of having committed criminal house trespass and thereafter committing
rape upon the victim ‘X’ in furtherance of their common intention. Accordingly, the accused
persons — Santosh Sarkar, Juren Sarkar and Bolaram Biswas cannot be said to have
committed any offence u/s 450/376(D)/34 of the I.P.C.

4
Sevsions Jud:

Dhemaii.
SESS 69 (DH) OF 2015

Order:

 

11. The accused person Shri Santosh Sarkar, Bolaram Biswas and Juren Sarkar are acquitted
of the charge u/s 450 / 376(D) / 34 of the Indian Penal Code.

12. Bail bond executed by the accused person and surety are extended for next six months
as per the provision of Section 437 A of Cr.P.C.

13. Considering the facts of the instant case, this matter is not referred to District Legal
Services Authority for granting compensation u/s 357 A Code of Criminal Procedure.

14. Judgment is pronounced in open court. Case is disposed on contest.

Given under my hand and seal on this the 3®° day of April/2017.

=

( A. Hazarika )

7d
Sessiqng JUGGR -
Dhemaj

Dictated & corrected by me:

(A. Hazarika )

Sessions Jug a8

Bor

Dhemafl.

Typed by me :-
(B.K. Buragohain)
Steno. Grade-I.
Appendix:
Prosecution Witnesses
P.W. 1 - Shri Sanatan Sarkar,
P.W. 2 - Shri Ajoy Sarkar,
P.W. 3 - Smt. Sabita Sartkar,
Defence Witnesses:-
None.
Prosecution Exhibits
Exhibit-1  - Seizure List
Exhibit 1(1) - Signatures of Ajoy Sarkar,

Defence Exhibits :- None

SESS 69 (DH) OF 2015

( Shri A. Hazarika )

a

Dhemaji.
