THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE 9 z:::tt::: ~~ CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

Special (P) Case No. 5(RKT)/2018
U/S 4 of POCSO Act.

 

State of Assam

VS.

SriDambal Mardi iw... ses Accused

PRESENT: Sri D.J. Mahanta,

Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.
ADVOCATES APPEARED:
For the State : Sri D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor
For the accused ‘ Sri N.I. Siddique,

Smt. P. Chutia, Ld. Advocates

Date of evidence : 20.04.18, 25.04.18, 23.05.18,
06.06.18, 13.06.18, 20.06.18

Date of Argument : 16.07.2018

ne
PS Date of Judgment —_: 30.07.2018
a*
y
tal Judge JUDGMENT AND ORDER
Chirang, Kalaigao"
Ls The prosecution case in brief is that on 19.11.2017, the

informant Smt. Chundki Mardi lodged an FIR before Runikhata P.S. alleging
that on 18.11.2017 at about 2.30/3.00 p.m., accused Dambal Mardi kidnapped
Miss ‘X’ (name is withheld), the niece of the informant, a student of Class VII

aged about 13 years, while she was going to the field for grazing their cows.

2. The matter was informed to the O/C, Runikhata Police Station
who accordingly registered a case being numbered as Runikhata P.S. Case No.
39/2017 U/S 365/342 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act and the O/C
S
ya?

Special Juage

chireng,

Kalalgao"

himself took up the investigation of the case. Accordingly, the 1.0. arrested
the accused, visited the place of occurrence, drew sketch map of the P.O.,
recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical
examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164 CrPC and after completion of
investigation, submitted charge-sheet against the accused person, namely,
Dambal Mardi U/S 363 IPC read with Section 6 of POCSO Act. After receiving
charge sheet, copies of relevant documents were furnished to the accused
person. Accused person was produced before the court from jail. On perusal
of entire materials on record and hearing both sides and after having found a
prima facie case, formal charge was framed U/S 4 of POCSO Act against
accused Dambal Mardi. Charge was read over and explained to the accused
person to which he denied to plead guilty.

3. In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as 7
(seven) witnesses including the 1.0. and M.O. One witness was examined as
Court Witness.

4. Following witnesses are examined:-
(1) Victim as PW 1
(2) Smt. Chundki Mardi as PW 2
(3) Sri Bodon Hembram as PW 3
(4) Sri Naiki Mardi @ Nikhil as PW 4
(5) Sri Supul Kisku as PW 5
(6) Dr. Meena Hazarika (M.O.) as PW 6
(7) SI Manoj Narzary (1.0.) as PW 7
(8) Sri Stephen Murmu as CW 1

5. Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext.1.
Admission register of No. 831 Kumguri L.P. School was exhibited as Ext.2.
Entry regarding the admission of victim in Serial No. 29 was exhibited as
Ext.2(1). Certificate book of No. 831 Kumguri L.P. School was exhibited as
Ext.3. Counter foil of Material Ext.1 was exhibited as Ext.3(1). Medical report
was exhibited as Ext.4, FIR was exhibited as Ext.5, sketch map was exhibited
as Ext.6, seizure list was exhibited as Ext. 7 and charge-sheet was exhibited
as Ext.8. School certificate of the victim was exhibited as Material Ext.1.
dys

special

Crirang,

Judge
Kajalgacr

6. Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.
7. Heard argument from both sides.
8. Now point for consideration:-

For the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act

1. Whether on 18.11.2017, at about 2.30 PM at village Kumguri
under Runikhata P.S., the accused committed penetrative
sexual assault on Miss ‘Xx’ (name is withheld) the niece of the

informant ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

18 he 0 ee ON

9. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence

on record regarding the point mentioned above.

10. In this case, to bring home the charge, prosecution side
examined as many as 7 witnesses including M.O. and 1.0. One witness was

examined as Court Witness.

11. PW 1 is the victim. She deposed that on the date of occurrence,
she went to nearby jungle to tie up cow. There was paddy field near the bank
of river Champa. Accused met her in the jungle. He took her to the bank of
the river Champa and forcefully committed sexual intercourse with her. After
that he took her to his home. In the meantime, her maternal aunt knew the
fact and went to the house of the accused and recovered her. It is stated by
victim that accused took her with a promise to marry her. This witness, after
filing of FIR, was brought before the Magistrate where she stated same facts.
According to PW 1, after knowing the incident, her maternal aunt, PW 2
lodged the FIR. During cross-examination, PW 1 stated that she knew the
accused from her childhood. Learned defence counsel gave suggestion that
she failed 3 to 4 times but same was denied by the PW 1. The learned
defence counsel further suggested that accused did not commit any sexual
intercourse with her and her age was above 18 years on the date of

occurrence but both suggestions were denied by the victim.
Special
chirang,

Juaye

Kajaigeo"

12. PW 2 Chundki Mardi is the maternal aunt of the victim, who
lodged the FIR. She deposed that occurrence took place in the year 2017. On
the date of occurrence, her niece, the victim (PW 1) went to nearby jungle to
tie up the cow but she did not return. According to PW 2, at that time, victim
was reading in Class VII and her age was about 14 years. When victim was
not returned, she searched her in different places within the village. Then
villagers reported her that victim was in the house of accused. After knowing
this fact, she went to the house of the accused and found her niece there. She
took her to her home. Then victim reported her that she was taken to the
bank of the river by the accused and committed sexual intercourse. After that
mater was reported to the villagers and a meeting was held. As no settlement
took place in the meeting, PW 2 lodged the FIR. According to her, during
investigation, Investigating Officer went to her home and seized the school
certificate of the victim and after seizing the document, police handed over
the same to her. Since then she was the custodian of the seized school
certificate and she brought the school certificate on the date of evidence. The
said school certificate was exhibited as Material Ext.1. During the cross-
examination, it is revealed that the victim has been residing in the house of
the PW 2 for a period of 6/7 years. It is also revealed that one week ago prior
to the incident, victim went to the house of the accused and stayed thereon
for a period of 3/4 days. The learned defence counsel divulged one fact that
victim was admitted in school by PW 2 and there was no birth certificate of
the victim and she stated the age of the victim to the Headmaster on
assumption. She clearly deposed that there was no love affection between the
victim and accused. The suggestion given by learned defence counsel that at
the time of occurrence, age of the victim was 18 years but same was denied.
Learned defence counsel further suggested that the accused did not commit

any sexual intercourse with the victim but same fact was also denied by PW 2.

13. PW 3 is one of the villagers. He knew both the victim and
accused. According to him, at the time of occurrence, age of the victim was
about 13 to 14 years and she was reading in Class VII. This witness stated
that there was love affair between the accused and the victim. Accused
wanted to marry her but guardian of the victim declined. This witness also

admitted that prior to this incident victim went to the house of the accused.
yw

Special

Juage
Kajaigact

Learned defence counsel during cross-examination suggested that age of the
victim, at the time of occurrence, was above 18 years but said suggestion was
denied by PW 3.

14. PW 4 is another villager, who stated that age of the victim was
about 13 years and there was love affair between the accused and victim. He
heard about the incident. The suggestion given by learned defence counsel
that at the time of occurrence, age of the victim was above 18 years and she
was not reading in Class VIII was denied by PW 4. According to PW 4, victim
was reading in Class VII or VIII.

15. PW 5 is another villager, who deposed that occurrence took
place about one year ago. He knew about the incident when a village mel was
held and he was present in the meeting. Then he knew that accused took the
victim to his home for which meeting was held. After that meeting, again
accused took the victim. According to this witness, victim was reading in Class
VII and her age was about 15 to 16 years. The suggestion given by learned
defence counsel that age of the victim was above 18 years was denied by the

witness.

16. PW 6 is the Medical Officer Dr. Meena Hazarika, who deposed
that on 20.11.2017 she was working as Medical & Health Officer at JSB Civil
Hospital, Kajalgaon. On that day, she examined the victim in connection with
Runikhata P.S. Case No. 39/2017. According to doctor, there was history of
kidnapping and sexual assault on 18.11.2017. On examination, Medical Officer

found the following:-

She was conscious. Built ~ average. Axillary hair — present.
Breast — developed. No injury marks on her body. Number of teeth 7/7, 7/7.
Perineum injury — absent. Stain of semen — absent. Pubic hair — present.
Vaginal examination — Stain of semen — absent, Mucosal tear — absent, hymen
— absent. Vaginal swab examination not done. Radiological examination — not
done.

. ore
”
bys
al Juag.

Chirang. Kaiaigen’

After clinical examination, doctor opined that age of the victim
was below 18 years. Doctor could not ascertain whether there was sexual

intercourse with the victim or not.

L?. PW 7 is the I.O., who investigated the matter. He deposed that
after taking the charge of investigation, he recorded the statement of the
informant at police station and on next day he proceeded to the house of the
accused and found both accused and victim thereon. He interrogated the
victim at police station, collected school certificate of the victim. According to
school certificate, her date of birth was 16.04.2004. He sent the victim to JSB
Civil Hospital for her medical examination. Her statement got recorded by
Magistrate U/S 164 CrPC. PW 7 further stated that he arrested the accused
and visited the place of occurrence and drew sketch map of the P.O. He
further recorded the statement of the witnesses. After medical examination,
he collected report, seized school certificate of the victim which was given to
the custody of the informant. After completion of investigation, he submitted
charge sheet against the accused U/S 363 IPC R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act.
The PW 7 exhibited the FIR, sketch map, seizure list and charge sheet.

18. Regarding Material Ext.1, learned prosecution prayed to
examine the Headmaster of the School from which certificate was issued. The
Headmaster Stephan Murmu was examined as CW 1. He deposed that he
knew the victim. She was reading in his schoo! i.e. No. 831 Kumguri L.P.
School. He prepared the Admission Register. He brought the Admission
Register in original and counter foil of the certificates. This witness stated that
according to Admission Register, victim was admitted in L.P. School on
09.01.2011. Her date of birth as mentioned in their Admission Register is
16.04.2004. According to CW 1, date of birth was inserted in the Admission
Register as reported by her guardian (PW 2). He deposed that he issued
Material Ext.1 on 05.08.15. He proved the Material Ext.1 and Admission
Register along with counter foil of the certificate. During the cross-
examination, he deposed that he had issued the certificate on the basis of
entry in Admission Register. At the time of admission, no form was issued.
According to CW 1, at the time of admission victim did not submit birth

certificate. He further stated during cross-examination that it was not
pgs

ai Judge
(Chirang Kaialae ay

mentioned in the Admission Register who reported them about the date of
birth of the victim. On the other hand, PW 2, the informant deposed that she
took the victim to admit in L.P. School. According to PW 2, she stated the date
of birth of the victim to the CW 1.

19, After going through the entire evidence on record, it is found
that the accused developed some relationship with victim which is revealed
from the evidence of the villagers. In this regard, prior to the incident, a
village mel was also held. Then villagers settled the matter and handed over
the victim to the custody of the informant. After that on the date of
occurrence, accused took the victim to his home and prior to this, he allegedly
committed sexual intercourse with the victim near the bank of the river
Champa. This fact was stated by the victim during her statement recorded U/S
164 CrPC. PW 2 also stated that victim had reported that accused committed
sexual intercourse with her. Victim was examined medically on 20.11.2017.
According to FIR, sexual assault was committed on 18.11.2017. So, victim was
examined after two days from the alleged incident of sexual intercourse. No
any sign of sexual intercourse was found by the doctor. In my view, medical
evidence is scanty and it was not done properly by the PW 6. It is also found
from the deposition of PW 6 that victim was not sent for radiological
examination. On the basis of clinical examination, doctor opined the age of the
victim as below 18 years. PW 6 did not perform her duty as medical officer
properly. As a result, no any concrete opinion was revealed regarding sexual
intercourse as well as age. Due to lack of knowledge of medical officer, we
cannot deny justice to the victim. Therefore, I want to determine the age of
the victim on the basis of Material Ext.1, the L.P. School certificate of the
victim. It is settled law that regarding rape or other sexual offences, evidence
of victim is sufficient. In this case, it was not suggested to the victim by
learned defence counsel during the cross-examination that there was love
affair between the accused and the victim. Defence only denied the age.
According to prosecution story, victim was reading in Class VII and her age
was about 14 years. In support of her age, prosecution exhibited the Material
Exhibit-1 in which date of birth of the victim was written as 16.04.2004.
Occurrence took place on 18.11.2017. According to Material Ext.1, at the time

of occurrence, age of the victim was about 13 years, 7 months and 2 days.
a
Ih 4
epeciat Judge.

Learned defence counsel pointed out that Material Ext.1 itself is not sufficient
to prove the age of the victim. According to him, PW 2 clearly stated that she
gave the date of birth of the victim to the school authority on assumption.
Therefore, date of birth as stated by PW 2 to CW 1 is not reliable. Learned
defence counsel further pointed out that the parents of the victim were not
examined, though they were residing in the same village at the time of
occurrence. PW 2 is the maternal aunt of the victim, who deposed that victim
was residing with her for a period of 6 to 7 years. She knew her age but she
stated the particular date of birth on assumption. If I believe the view given
by learned defence counsel, then she deferred the date of birth for a period of

more than 4 years which is not believable.

20. Learned defence counsel, in support of his argument placed

reliance upon the following case laws:-

(i) Criminal Appeal No. 2308 of 2009
(Sunil v. State of Haryana)

(ii) Criminal Appeal No. 68 of 2018
(Sujoy @ Sanjay Laltu Chakravarty v. State of Maharashtra)

(iii) Criminal Appeal No. 08 of 2017
(Lal Bahadur Kami v. State of Sikkim)

(iv) 1988 AIR 1796
(Birad Mal Singhvi v. Anand Purohit)

(v) Appeal (Civil) 8585 of 2002

(Sushil Kumar v. Rakesh Kumar)

21. On the other hand, learned P.P. vehemently objected the point
raised by learned defence counsel. According to learned P.P., Material Ext.1 is
a conclusive proof regarding age of the victim. Learned P.P. pointed out that
to determine age of a child, Court must have to follow the procedure laid

down in Juvenile Justice Act where U/S 12 procedure was laid down to
Qse

aw

ascertain the age of a child conflict with law. In support of his submission,

learned P.P. cited the following case laws:-

(i) Criminal Appeal No. 1209 of 2010
(Jarnail Singh v. State of Haryana)

(ii) Criminal Appeal No. 442 of 2010
(State of Madhya Pradesh v. Anoop Singh)

22. After going through the rival submissions advanced by learned
counsel for both the parties and after perusing the cited case laws, supplied
by them, I have found that in first case, supplied by defence, school certificate
was obtained after the incident. Another point found in the said case is that
certificate was not obtained from the school where victim first attended.
Moreover, in said case, the person who made the admission of the victim was
also not examined. It is also revealed from the certificate that she was reading

for few days only in that school from which certificate was obtained.

23. In second case submitted by learned defence counsel, I have
found that the prosecution in said case exhibited the certificate obtained from
High School and Junior College only. No certificate from the school first

attended was exhibited to prove the age of the victim.

24. In third case supplied by learned defence counsel, I have found
that alleged age of the victim at the time of occurrence was about 17 years 8
months. In said case also prosecution did not examine the issuing authority of
the certificate. Age of the victim was found in border line. In said case,
another fact was revealed that age of the victim was proved by adducing
documents from two sources. One showed the victim as minor and other
showed the victim as major. Therefore, conflict arose between alleged date of
birth of victim and age of the victim i.e. 17 years 8 months for which Court did

not believe the certificate.

25. Other two cases are related with election matter. The candidate
showed his age above 25 years but it was found by the returning officer as
below 25 years. In this case, Hon’ble Supreme Court discussed the principles
10

regarding proof of contents of document and its admissibility U/S 35 of
Evidence Act as follows: (1988 AIR 1796 Birad Mal Singhvi Vs. Anand
Purohit)

"3a) To render a document admissible under section 35
of the Evidence Act three conditions must be satistied, firstly,
entry that is relied on must be one in a public or other official
book, register of record, secondly, it must be an entry stating a
fact in issue or relevant fact; and thirdly, it must be made by 2
public servant in discharge of his official duty, or any other

person in performance of duty specially enjoined by law. [21B]

(b) An entry relating to date of birth made in the school
register is relevant and admissible under section 35 of the Act,
but the entry regarding the age of 3 person in a school register
is of not much evidentiary value to prove the age of the person

in the absence of the material on which the age was recorded.
felt]

(c) Parents or near relations having special knowledge
are the best persons to depose about the date of birth of a
person. If entry regarding date of birth in the school’s register
is made on the information given by parents or someone
having special knowledge of the fact, the same would have
probative value. [20A]

(d) The date of birth mentioned in the scholar’s register
has no evidentiary value unless the person who made the entry
or who gave the date of birth is examined. [20B]

(e) The entry contained in the admission form or in the
scholar register must be shown to be made on the basis of
information given by the parents or @ person having special
knowledge about the date of birth of the person concerned, If
the entry in the scholars register regarding date of birth is

made on the basis of information given by parents, the entry
ii

would have evidentiary value and if it is given by a stranger or
by someone else who had no special means of knowledge of
the date of birth, such an entry will have no evidentiary value.
[20C]

26. I also agree with the view taken by Hon'ble Supreme Court in
above cases. In present case at hand, I have found that Material Ext.1 was
issued by a Govt. servant. He is the Headmaster of a school and it was
maintained in a Govt. Register i.e. Admission Register. Therefore, Admission
Register or Material Ext.1 are admissible according to Section 35 of Evidence
Act. There is no doubt regarding admissibility of the document in present case
at hand.

Zi. After going through the case laws cited by learned defence
counsel, I have found that Hon'ble Supreme Court gave more emphasis
regarding probability of date of birth inserted in Admission Register by the
Headmaster of school. It was held that the person who first told the date of
birth of the student to the school authority is a material witness. His or her
evidence is very much necessary to ascertain the actual date of birth or
probability of the date of birth inserted in admission register from which
ultimately certificate was issued narrating the date of birth. According to
Hon’ble Supreme Court, parents are the best persons who know about the
date of birth of their children. In absence of parents, near relative is also
competent person to tell the date of birth of a child. In present case at hand,
PW 2, the informant is the maternal aunt of the victim. So, she knew about
the age of the victim but in our case, PW 2 Is a rustic village woman for which
she could not tell the actual date of birth. Therefore, she told before the Court
during her cross-examination that she had reported the date of birth of the
victim on assumption. Learned defence counsel, on the basis of her said
answer, vehemently argued before this Court that victim was not a minor at
the time of occurrence and her age was above 18 years. More than 4 years
cannot be presumed as differences in between date given by PW 2 and her
actual date of birth. In present case, if I believe the point raised by learned
defence counsel, then more than 4 years will be increased upon the certificate

age of the victim which is not believable.
12

28, Learned P.P. by citing case laws rightly pointed out that already
Supreme Court decided that age of the victim or child shall be determined
according to procedure laid down U/S 12 of Juvenile Justice (Care and
Protection of Children) Act.

29. Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Mahadeo S/o Kerba
Maske Vs. State of Maharashtra and Anr., (2013) 14 SCC 637, has held
that Rule 12(3) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules,
2007, is applicable in determining the age of the victim of rape. Rule 12(3)

reads as under:

"Rule 12(3): In every case concerning a child or juvenile in
conflict with law, the age determination inguiry shall be
conducted by the Court or the Board or, as the case may be,

the Committee by seeking evidence by obtaining —

(a) (i) the matriculation or equivalent certificates, if available; and
in the absence whereof;

(ii) the date of birth certificate from the school (other than a
play school) first attended; and in the absence whereof;

i (iii) the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal
4 \ authority or a panchayat;
ia (b) and only in the absence of either (i), (ii) or (iti) of clause (a)
ai Judge
Chirang, Kalataee' above, the medical opinion will be sought from a duly

constituted Medical Board, which will declare the age of the
juvenile or child. In case exact assessment of the age cannot
be done, he Court of the Board or, as the case may be, the
Committee, for the reasons to be recorded by them, may, if
considered necessary, give benefit to the child or juvenile by
considering his/her age on lower side within the margin of one

year.
30.

13

and, while passing orders in such case shall, after taking into
consideration such evidence as may be available, or the
medical opinion, as the case may be, record a finding in respect
of his age and either of the evidence specified in any of the
causes (a)(i), (ii), (iii) or in the absence of whereof, clause (b)
shall be the conclusive proof of the age as regards such child or

the juvenile in conflict with law.”

The Hon’ble Supreme Court further held in paragraph 12 of

Mahadeo S/O Kerba Maske (supra) as under:

31.

"Under rule 12(3)(b), it is specifically provided that only in the
absence of alternative methods described under Rule
12(3)(aXi) to (iii), the medical opinion can be sought for. In the
light of such a statutory rule pre vailing for ascertainment of the
age of the juvenile in our considered opinion, the same
yardstick can be rightly followed by the courts for the purpose

of the ascertaining the age of a victim as well.”

The Hon’ble Supreme Court therefore relied on the certificates

issued by the school in determining the age of the prosecutrix. In paragraph

13, the Hon’ble Supreme Court observed:

Ag

5
t

Chirana *i

grpetial judge

algan!

"In light of our above reasoning, in the case on hand, there
were certificates issued by the school in which the prosecutrix
did her V standard and in the school leaving certificate issued
by the school under Exhibit 54, the date of birth has been
clearly noted as 20.05.1990 and this document was also proved
by PW 11. Apart from that the transfer certificate as well as the
admission form maintained by the Primary School, Latur, where
the prosecutrix had her initial education, also confirmed the
date of birth as 20.05.1990. the reliance placed upon the said
evidence by the Courts below arrive at the stage of the

prosecutrix to hold that the prosecutrix was below 18 years of
14

age at the time of occurrence was perfectly justified and we do

not find any grounds to interfere with the same. “

32. After going through the entire evidence on record and
discussion of the cited case laws, I have found that in present case at hand,
both Headmaster, who issued the Material Ext.1, the certificate of L.P. School
and the person who took the victim for admission were examined. Admission
Register along with certificate book were also exhibited. According to said,
document, the date of birth of the victim was shown as 16.04.2004. The
Material Ext.1, the certificate was issued on 05.08.2015 prior to the incident.
Occurrence took place on 18.11.2017. It is not believable that PW 2, in
prediction of present incident wrongly told the date of birth to the school
authority in the year 2011 which could decrease the age of the victim for a
period of 4 years 5 months. This was the motive of the informant, this view
cannot be treated as proper view. In present case at hand, I have found that
victim was reading in Class VII. It is not revealed from the evidence on record
that she failed in any class. It was stated in the FIR as well as in her later
deposition by the PW 2 that age of the victim was about 14 years. Doctor
also, from her clinical examination, opined that age of the victim was below 18
years. One of the witnesses stated the age of the victim as 15 to 16 years. No
one admitted the suggestion given by learned defence counsel that age of the
victim was above 18 years. So, considering all evidences including clinical
evidence, documentary evidence and oral evidence, in my view, age of the
victim was below 18 years on the date of occurrence. As victim was examined
after 48 hours of the alleged incident, so, doctor found no any injury or spot
upon the victim regarding sexual intercourse.

a3. Penetrative sexual assault is defined U/S 3 of POCSO Act as
follows:

“3, Penetrative Sexual Assault.— A person is said to commit

“penetrative sexual assault” if —
as

a\ Jucg+

chirang. Kal

alaae

15

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina,
mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do

so with him or any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body,
not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus
of the child or makes the child to do so with him or any

other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to
cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any
part of the body of the child or makes the child to do so

with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra
of the child or makes the child to do so to such person or

any other person.”

34. After going through the definition of penetrative sexual assault,
it is found that a person is said to commit the offence if he penetrates his
penis, to any extent. So, non-finding of any injury mark upon the private part
of the victim itself is not sufficient to disbelieve the evidence given by the
victim. So, in this regard, evidence given by victim Is sufficient and she is
found wholly reliable. So, it is found that victim was a minor on the date of
occurrence and accused committed penetrative sexual assault upon her as
narrated by the victim. So, offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act is proved against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubt. Point mentioned above is remained as
proved beyond all reasonable doubt. Accused is found guilty U/S 4 of POCSO
Act.

ORDER

35; Prosecution proved the case U/S 4 of POCSO Act against the
accused Dambal Mardi beyond all reasonable doubt. Accused is convicted U/S
4 of POCSO Act.
16

36. Heard the accused and his engaged counsel on point of
sentence. Hearing is recorded in separate sheet and kept with the case

record.

3, Accused pleaded mercy of the Court considering his tender age
as well as his poor economic condition. It is also stated by the accused that

this is his first offence.

38. I have found that this is the first offence committed by the
accused because no previous conviction of the accused was proved by the
prosecution during trial. I have also considered all mitigating circumstances as

stated by the accused.

39, After considering all aspects, accused is sentenced to undergo
rigorous imprisonment for a period of 7 (seven) years with a fine of Rs.
5,000/- (Rupees Five Thousand), in default, 6 (six) months R.I. Fine amount
shall be given to the victim as compensation.

40. Accused is in jail. So, the period already undergone by the
accused in jail shall be set off from the sentenced period as per provision of
Section 428 CrPC. Accused is committed to the prison forthwith.

41. A copy of this Judgment and Order shall be furnished to the
accused on free of cost. Another copy of this Judgment and Order shall be

given to the District Magistrate, Chirang for information.

42. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 30" day
of July, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.
Gusyps yor Mobowt,
(DJ. MananBy
Spigaialshuclgeer,
Chidhinarigole'gac

Dictated and corrected by me,

bes

(D.J. Mahanta)
Special Judge,
Qe.

Chirang. algaor
17

APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 - Victim

PW 2 — Smt. Chundki Mardi

PW 3 — Sri Bodon Hembram

PW 4 — Sri Naiki Mardi @ Nikhil
PW 5 - Sri Supul Kisku

PW 6 — Dr. Meena Hazarika (M.O.)
PW 7 - SI Manoj Narzary (I.0.)
CW 1 - Sri Stephen Murmu

Exhibit (Prosecution):

Ext-1 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

Ext-2 Admission register of No. 831 Kumguri L.P. School
Ext-2(1) Entry regarding the admission of victim in Serial No. 29
Ext-3 Certificate book of No. 831 Kumguri L.P. School
Ext-3(1) Counter foil of Material Ext.1

Ext-4 Medical report

Ext-5 FIR

Ext-6 Sketch map

Ext-7 Seizure list

Ext-8 Charge-sheet

Material Exhibit (Prosecution):
Material Ext-1 School certificate of the victim

Defence Witness:
Nil

Defence Exhibit:
Nil

bgt ¥

(D.J. Mahanta)
Special Judge,
Chiras a Rae
