IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE, SI VASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar,
Special J udge,
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 49 of 2017 U/ S 6 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Nazira P.S. Case No. 177/2017)

State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Raju Chetry .......ce Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Sri A. K. Bora, P.P.
For the accused ; Mr. Dipak Dutta, Advocate
Date of framing Charge: 17.11.2017
Dates of Evidence 08.12.2017
Date of Argument 08.12.2017
Date of J udgment 08.12.2017
JUDGMENT
1. Prosecution case, In brief, is that on 20.09.2017, one Smt. Lakshmi

Bagti lodged an FIR with O/C, Nazira Model Police Station alleging, inter alia,
accused Raju Chetry forcibly committed rape on her 16 years old daughter
victim 'B' (name withheld) for which victim conceived and presently she is
carrying seven months pregnancy.

2, On this FIR, Nazira PS Case No. 177/2017, U/S 376(2)(i) IPC, R/W
Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and started investigation. During
investigation, accused was arrested and produced him before this court for
judicial custody. Victim was medically examined and recorded her statement in
the court U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

Spl. (P) Case No. 49 of 2017 Page 1 of 4
3, On completion of investigation, 1.0. has submitted Charge-Sheet
against the above named accused U/S 376 (2)(i)IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO
Act, 2012.

4. Upon receipt of charge, sheet, copy was furnished to the accused.

After hearing both the sides, vide order dated 17.11.2017, charge U/S 6 of

POCSO Act, 2012 has been framed against accused Raju Chetry to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial. During trial, prosecution side has

examined two witnesses including the informant and the victim.

5. Examination of accused U/S 313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with as no

incriminating material found against the accused for the alleged offence in the

evidence of informant and victim. Considering nature of the evidence, | propose
to dispose the case by applying powers u/s 232 Cr.P.C without calling the
accused to enter into defence.

6. | have heard argument of learned P.P. Mr. A.K. Bora and Mr.

Dipak Dutta, learned defence counsel and gone through the record. | have

considered the submission of both the sides.

POINT FOR DETERMINATIONIS’ -

7. (i) Whether prior to one year of filing FIR on 05.10.2017, accused has
committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim 'B' and
was responsible pregnancy of the victim?

DECI SION AND REASONS THEREOF

8. PW-1 Smt. Lakshmi Bagti, the informant and mother of the victim

in her deposed that accused Raju Chery is her son in law. He married her eldest

daughter. Victim B Is her third daughter. On knowing that victim was pregnant
for about 5 month, she sent her at the residence of accused for her delivery.

On asking, victim did not disclose about the person responsible for her

pregnancy. On becoming the matter public, under pressure from villagers, she

lodged the FIR. At the relevant time, victim was aged about 17 years. About 12

days back, victim delivered one female child at ] oysagar Hospital. In her cross-

examination PW 1 admitted that she cannot say about the contents of the FIR

Spl. (P) Case No. 49 of 2017 Page 2 of 4
or the name of scribe. Victim did not disclose the name of her boy friend. Due
to pressure created by villagers, this case was filed. She do not want to proceed
further with this case.

9. PW-2 Victim B in her evidence deposed that she read upto class
|X. 13 days back, she delivered one female child. The boy through whom she
was pregnant, has left the village. While she was pregnant for about 5-6
months, she informed the matter to her mother and on this, her mother sent
her to the residence of accused for delivery. On becoming the matter public,
under pressure from villagers, her mother lodged the FIR. She also deposed
that to save herself from public outrage, she falsely took the name of accused
as responsible for her pregnancy. In her cross-examination she admitted that
accused Raju Chetry never made any physical relation with her. He was not
responsible for her pregnancy.

10. From the evidence of P.W. 1 and P.W. 2 it is seen that none of
them deposed anything against the accused implicating him with the alleged
offence. P.W. 1 being the mother of the victim deposed that on knowing that
her daughter victim 'B' was pregnancy for about five months, she sent the
victim to the residence of accused for her delivery. From her evidence it also
depicts that victim did not disclose the name of the person responsible for her
pregnancy. It is also in the evidence that on becoming the matter public, under
pressure from villagers, PW 1 lodged the FIR. PW 1 admitted that she also did
not disclose the name of her boy friend. P.W. 2 the victim admitted that to save
herself from public outrage, her mother lodged the FIR implicating the accused.
In her cross she clearly deposed that accused Raju Chetry never made any
physical relation with her and he was not responsible for her pregnancy.

11. So from the evidence on record, it is seen that accused was falsely
implicated in this case by the victim just to save herself from the public outrage.
On the contrary, her evidence reflects that she got pregnant through a boy who
has already left their village. The admitted that fact that few days back, the

victim delivered one child, though confirmed the fact the victim was subjected

Spl. (P) Case No. 49 of 2017 Page 3 of 4
to penetrative sexual assault, but the accused cannot be held responsible for
the same.

12. Considering all above, | am of the opinion that prosecution has
failed to prove the ingredients of charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act against the
accused Sri Raju Chetry. As such, accused Raju Chetry is acquitted from the
charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and set at liberty forthwith.

13. Issue release order to the Jail Supdt. of District Jail, Sivasagar
forthwith.

14. As the accused was in Jail custody, no order is passed U/S 437 A
CFPC.

15. Considering the nature of the case, the matter is not referred to
DLSA for granting compensation U/S 357 A Cr.P.C.

16. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

17. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on
contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 8" day of

December 2017 at Sivasagar.

Special J udge
Sivasagar

APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses :
P.W.1- Smt. Lakshmi Bagti (Informant)
P.W.2- (Victim)

2. Defence witnesses~ - None
3. Court witnesses - None
4. Exhibits by prosecution - None

Special | udge,
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 49 of 2017 Page 4 of 4
