1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present : Md. A.U. Ahmed, AJS,
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 26/2018 corresponding to
GR Case No. 751/2018 & Anjokpani Police
Station Case No. 06/2018 Under Sections 365 of
the IPC/4 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Md. Romiz Uddin

Name of informant/complainant:
Shri Bikram Pradhan

Son of Shri Krishna Pradhan

Village: No. 5 Puthizuri

PS: Anjokpani

District: Karbi Anglong, Assam
Name of the accused person facing trial:

Md. Romiz Uddin

S/O Md Nazamuddin

Village: Sonajuri

PS: Samaguri

District: Nagaon, Assam

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defence : Mrs. R. Bharali
Argument heard on : 05.08.2019

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 05.08.2019
2|Page

JUDGMENT

1. It is a case of kidnapping of minor child and
penetrative sexual assault alleged to have been committed

by the accused person.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 19.07.2018 the
informant named above lodged a written ejahar with
Anjokpani Police Station stating inter alia that on 15.07.2018
in the evening his victim sister having age of 17 years went
missing from the house and during the search it was learnt
that the accused enticed away his victim sister. On receipt of
the ejahar, O/C Anjokpani Police Station registered a case
vide its PS case No. 06/2018 under sections 365 of the IPC.
On completion of investigation I.0. submitted the charge-
sheet under sections 365 of the IPC/4 of the POCSO Act
against the accused person. Hence the prosecution has

come up.

3. On completion of appearance of the accused person,
copy was furnished to him. Having very carefully gone
through the submissions duly advanced by the learned
lawyers of the both sides as well as case diary I found
sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person
committed the offence under sections 363 of the IPC/ 4 of
the POCSO Act. Accordingly, the charges were framed. The
particular of the offences charged was duly read over and
explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During trial Prosecution has examined 3 (Three)

witnesses including the informant and the alleged victim.
3|Page

Statement of the accused person was recorded under
section 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence declined to adduce evidence.

Plea of defence is of total denial.

5. Point for determination is:

(i) Whether the accused person on 15.07.2018 in the
evening at No. 5 Puthizuri under Anjokpani Police

Station kidnapped the victim who was 17 years old?

(ii) Whether the accused person on 15.07.2018 in the
evening at No. 5 Puthizuri under Anjokpani Police
Station or any other place caused penetrative sexual

assault upon the victim who was 17 years old?

6. Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through verbal arguments
advanced by the learned counsels of both sides as well as
evidence on record. At the very outset, the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the accused person has contended
that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case
against the accused person. On the other hand, the learned
Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the aforesaid
submission has submitted that the prosecution has
succeeded in establishing its case against the accused
person beyond all reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the
rival submissions, it would be appropriate to give a glance at

evidence record.

7. Let us first see whether at the time of occurrence the
victim was child as defined under section 2 (d) of the POCSO
Act. According to section 2 (d) of the POCSO Act, a person
4|Page

who has not completed 18 years is considered to be a child.
Ext-1 is the ejahar wherein it has been stated that at the

time of occurrence the victim was 17 years old.

8. PW-1 is the informant brother who has admitted in his
cross examination that at the time of occurrence the victim
was 18 years old and that at the time of admission of the
victim age of the victim girl was given one and half years
less from the actual age. Evidence of PW-2 is totally silent

regarding the age of the victim.

9, PW-3 is the victim who has clearly state in his evidence
that at the time of occurrence she was 18 years old. Ext-2 is
the statement of the victim girl which shows that at the time
of occurrence she was 17 years 6 months old. Medical report
shows that at the time of occurrence she was 17/18 years
old. Photocopy of admit card of HSLC examination available
with the case record shows that at the time of occurrence
the victim was 17 years 4 months 2 days old. In view of the
discussion made above there is a doubt at the time of
occurrence the victim was below 18 years. Hence I
convinced to hold that at the time of occurrence the victim

was not child.

10. From the evidence of the victim it appears very clearly
that she fled away with the accused person on her sweet
will. It also appears that the accused made sexual
intercourse on her sweet will. In her cross examination the
victim marked as PW-3 has stated that her parents at
present have no objection if she will stay with the accused
person as husband and wife and that they have no objection

if the accused person is acquitted. In view of the discussion
5|Page

made above, I find no way to disturb the conjugal life of the

accused with the victim.

ORDER

11. In the result, I find that the prosecution has failed to
prove its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubts. Hence on benefit of doubt he accused
person is hereby acquitted of the charges brought against
him and let him set at liberty forthwith. The bail bonds shall
remain cancelled after 6(six) months. Accordingly, this case

is disposed of on contest.
12. Given under hand and seal of this court today, the 05"

day of August, 2019.

Dictated and corrected

by me.

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
