Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL J UDGE, SIVASAGAR

 

Present - Biprajit Roy, AJ S.
Special | udge,

Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 53/2016

U/s 6 of POCSO Act & sec. 376(2) of IPC

State
-V/s-

Laba Kanta Bora

Advocates appeared:

For the State : - Mr. S. Gogoi,

For the accused: - Smt. M. Baruah,

Date of evidence: - 21.08.18, 28.09.18, 28.01.19, 12.03.19, 26.04.19, 30.05.19
Date of argument: - 26.08.19, 30.09.19

Date of judgment:- 10.10.2019

UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that the informant X (name withheld) who is also
the victim of the case lodged an FIR in the J oysagar out-post on 10.11.2016 stating that
the accused Sri Laba Kanta Bora forcefully established physical relation with her in his
house. The accused also threatened her with dire consequences and warned her not to
disclose the incident to any person. The informant stated that at the time of filing of the
FIR she was pregnant. The said FIR was forwarded to the O.C. of Sivasagar police
station who received the same and registered Sivasagar P S case no. 1006/2016 u/s 4 of
POCSO Act.

2. The investigation of the case was conducted by SI Utpal Bora and on

completion of investigation charge-sheet was submitted u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

3. Vide order dated 14.06.2018 copy of relevant documents were furnished to the

accused. After hearing Id. counsel of both sides charge u/s 6 of POCSO Act and section

Page 1 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

376(2) of IPC were framed against the accused which were read over and explained to
the accused to which he pleaded not guilty.

4. In the course of trial prosecution side examined all the 6 (six) witnesses. The

defence plea is of denial.

5. The accused person was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C.
6. Heard argument of learned counsel of both sides.
a The points for determination in this case are:

(i) Whether at the time of the occurrence the victim girl was below

18 years?

(ii) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on

the victim repeatedly?

(iii) | Whether the victim is guilty of any offence as alleged in the
FIR?

Decision, Discussion and reasons:

 

8. The P.W.1 is mother of the victim girl. She stated that at the time of the incident
her daughter was aged about 15 years and she was a student of class VIII. She stated
that on seeing signs of pregnancy on her unmarried daughter she asked victim and the
victim girl told her that the accused Laba Kanta Bora made her pregnant. At that time the
victim was about 8 (eight) months pregnant. The PW-1 stated that her daughter told her
that she went to the house of the accused on being called by his daughter-in-law. The
accused made physical relation with her 2/3 times. The accused threatened her to Kill
and also asked her not to divulge the incident to anyone. Out of fear she did not disclose
the matter to anyone. After coming to know about the incident on being told by her
daughter, the PW-1 enquired about the matter with the accused and the accused offered
her Rs. 1500.00 (one thousand five hundred) for causing abortion but due to advance
stage of the pregnancy, she refused the said offer. Thereafter her daughter lodged the
FIR. After about one month of filing of the FIR, her daughter gave birth to one female

child and the said child was later on handed over to Child Welfare Committee.

In cross-examination PW-1 admitted that she has not produced the school

certificate to prove the age of her daughter. The PW-1 denied that at the time of the

Page 2 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

incident her daughter was above 18 years. The house of the accused is situated near
her house. She stated that the accused lives in his house with his wife, son, daughter-
in-law and grand-children. The PW-1 admitted that her daughter/victim girl did not
disclose any specific date of incident. The PW-1 denied that her daughter was having
love affair with another boy. She admitted that after 6(six) months of the child birth, her
daughter eloped with a boy. The PW-1 stated that the accused is a habitual drunk. The
PW-1 denied the suggestion that due to old age, the accused is physically unfit to

establish physical relation with any woman.

9. The P.W.2 is the victim of the case. She stated that on the first occasion the
accused had physical relation with her at around 9.00 a.m. while she went to the house
of the accused to wash clothes. At that time the accused asked her to make a cup of tea
and while she was preparing tea, the accused grabbed her from behind, gagged her
mouth and raped her. The PW-2 stated that she tried to prevent the accused but the
accused threatened her with dire consequences and also asked her not to disclose the
matter to anyone. The PW-2 further stated that after 5/6 days of the first incident she
was called by the daughter-in-law of the accused (namely Chumki Borah) and the
accused again raped her and threatened her not to disclose the matter to anyone. Again
after 12/13 days of the 2"? incident she was called by the daughter-in-law of the
accused and the accused committed rape with her again. The PW-2 stated that when
her mother came to know about the pregnancy, she enquired about the matter with the
accused and the accused offered Rs. 2000.00 (two thousand) for causing abortion. The
PW- 2 stated that after one month of filing of the FIR, delivered a female child and the
said child was later on handed over to an “Aashram” after one week. The PW-2 in her
evidence further stated that her statement was recorded in the Court during
investigation which is marked as Ext. 2 wherein she stated that the accused committed
rape on her repeatedly and also threatened her not to disclose the matter to anyone.

In cross-examination PW-2 stated that she does not know whether any
document relating to her age was given to the police or not. She admitted that prior to
this case her uncle had lodged a case against her on allegation of setting fire in his
house and she faced trial in the JJB. The PW-2 admitted that no village meeting was
held in connection with the incident. She also stated that the accused used to consume
alcohol. The PW-2 denied the suggestion that she was not raped by the accused.

From perusal of the cross-examination of PW-2 it appears that some suggestions

were put by the Id. defence counsel in connection with her statement made before the

Page 3 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

Magistrate u/s 164 of Cr.P.C. The PW-2 denied all those suggestions. | have perused
the Ext.2 which is the statement of the victim girl recorded u/s 164 of Cr.P.C. From
perusal of the said statement marked as Ext. 2 it is crystal clear that the victim clearly
stated that the accused committed rape on her repeatedly. The victim girl also stated
that when her mother enquired about the matter with the accused, he offered money

for causing termination of the pregnancy.

10. The P.W.3 is the father of the victim girl. He stated that he came to know about
the incident when his daughter lodged the FIR. Thereafter his daughter gave birth to a
female child. He stated that he came to know from his wife that the accused was the
father of the said child. Later on the said child was handed over to an Orphanage.

In cross-examination the PW-3 stated that he believes that the accused is not
the father of the child. He also stated that he never saw the accused involved in any
anti-social activities. The PW-3 stated that at the time of the incident his daughter was

aged above 18 years.

11. The PW-4 is the brother of the victim girl. He stated that he came to know from
his mother about the incident. Then he came to know from his mother that when the
victim went to the tube well in the accused's house for washing clothes, the accused
established physical relation with her forcefully. His mother also told him that the
accused established physical relation with his sister on 4 (four) occasions. After about 8
(eight) months of the incident his mother came to know about pregnancy of his sister
and then on enquiry his sister told that the accused had established physical relation
with her on different dates on 4(four) occasions. Then his sister lodged the FIR. After
few days of filing of the FIR his sister gave birth to a girl child. Later on the child was
taken by NGO.

In cross-examination the PW-4 stated that his sister has not submitted any birth
certificate. The accused is a married man and lives with his family. He also stated that
his sister had concealed the entire incident. He also stated that his sister eloped after
6(six) months of the child birth.

12. The PW- 5 Dr. Nirmalya Choudhury is the medical officer who examined the
victim on 11.11.2016 in connection with Sivasagar P. S. case no. 1006/2010 u/s 4 of

POCSO Act. On examination he found that the age of the victim girl was below 18 years

Page 4 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

with no sign of recent sexual intercourse. On USG finding dated 12.11.2016 she was
carrying 34 weeks of gestation with live fetus. There was no sign of any injury. The PW-
5 also stated that as per the Radiological examination report skiagrams of left wrist joint
revealed incomplete fusion of epiphysis and skiagrams of left elbow joint revealed
complete fusion of epiphysis. The PW-5 exhibited the medical report marked as Ext. 3
wherein Ext. 3(1) is his signature and Ext. 3(2) is the X-ray report. The PW-5 was not

cross-examined by the defence.

13. The PW- 6 Inspector Utpal Borah had investigated the case. In his evidence he
stated that on 10.11.2016 he was working as |/C, Joysagar out-post. On that day he
received the FIR vide GD entry no. 174 and the same was forwarded to the O.C.
Sivasagar. The O.C. of Sivasagar PS registered Sivasagar PS case no. 1006/2010 u/s 4
of POCSO Act.

14. During investigation the |.O. visited the place of occurrence and prepared sketch
map marked as Ext. 5 wherein Ext. 5(1) is his signature. He also exhibited extract copy
of GD entry marked as Ext. 4 wherein Ext. 4(1) is his signature. During investigation
PW-6 recorded the statement of the witnesses and also got the victim examined
medically. Her statement was also recorded u/s 164 of Cr.P.C. On completion of

investigation he submitted charge-sheet u/s 4 of POCSO Act against the accused.

In cross-examination the PW- 6 admitted that during investigation he did not
seize any document relating to the age of the victim. He also admitted that he did not
examine the family members of the accused person as witnesses. He did not examine
Ananta Saikia @ Bubu as witness. The PW-6 stated that the PW-1 stated before him
that the accused had offered money but did not specifically mention that he had offered
Rs. 1500.00. The PW-6 denied that he did not investigate the case properly.

15. The accused was examined u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. During his examination the
accused denied all the allegations levelled against him. He stated that he does not know
the reason as to why the victim girl has filed the case against him. The accused during
his examination u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. admitted that the victim girl was below 18 years at
that time.

Page 5 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

16. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in AIR1983SC753-Bharwada
Bhoginbhai_ Hirjibhai-Vs-State of Gujarat while dealing with the point of
appreciation of evidence of in a rape case held as follows:

“41) By and large a witness cannot be expected to possess a photographic

memory and to recall the details of an incident. It is not as if a video tape is

replayed on the mental screen.

(2) Ordinarily it so happens that a witness is overtaken by events. The witness
could not have anticipated the occurrence which so often has an element of
surprise. The mental faculties therefore cannot be expected to be attuned to

absorb the details.

(3) The powers of observation differ from person to person. What one may
notice, another may not. An object or movement might emboss its image on

one person's mind whereas it might go unnoticed on the part of another.

(4) By and large people cannot accurately recall a conversation and reproduce
the very words used by them or heard by them. They can only recall the main
purport of the conversation. It is unrealistic to expect a witness to be a human

tape recorder.

(5) In regard to exact time of an incident, or the time duration of an
occurrence, usually, people make their estimates by guess work on the spur of
the moment at the time of interrogation. And one cannot expect people to
make very precise or reliable estimates in such matters. Again, it depends on

the time-sense of individuals which varies from person to person,

(6) Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall accurately the sequence
of events which take place in rapid succession or in a short time span. A

witness is liable to get confused, or mixed up when interrogated later on.

(7) A witness, though wholly truthful, is liable to be overawed by the court

atmosphere and the piercing cross examination made by counsel and out of

nervousness mix up facts, get confused regarding sequence of events, or fill

up details from imagination on the spur of the moment. The sub-conscious

mind of the witness sometimes so operates on account of the fear of looking
Page 6 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

foolish or being disbelieved though the witness is giving a truthful and honest
account of the occurrence witnessed by him-Perhaps it is a sort of a

psychological defence mechanism activated on the spur of the moment.

8. Discrepancies which do not go to the root of the matter and shake the basic version
of the witnesses therefore cannot be annexed with undue importance. More so when
the all-important "probabilities-factor" echoes in favour of the version narrated by the

witnesses.

9. It is now time to tackle the pivotal issue as regards the need for insisting on
corroboration to the testimony of the prosecutrix in sex-offences. This Court, in
Rameshwar v. The State of Rajasthan MANU/SC/0036/1951: 1952CriLJ547 has
declared that corroboration is not the sine qua-non for a conviction in a rape case. The
utterance of the Court in Rameshwar may be replayed, across the time-gap of three
decades which have whistled past, in the inimitable voice of Vivian Bose, J. who spoke
for the Court-

The rule, which according to the cases has hardened into one of law, is not
that corroboration is essential before there can be a conviction but that the
necessity of corroboration, as a matter of prudence, except where the
circumstances make it safe to dispense with it, must be present to the mind of
the judge.

The only rule of law is that this rule of prudence must be present to the mind
of the Judge or the jury as the case may be and be understood and
appreciated by him or them. There is no rule of practice that there must, in

every case, be corroboration before a conviction can be allowed to stand.

10. And whilst the sands were running out in the time-glass, the crime graph of
offences against women in India has been scaling new peaks from day to day. That is
why an elaborate rescanning of the jurisprudential sky through the lenses of ‘logos'

and 'ethos', has been necessitated.

11. In the Indian setting, refusal to act on the testimony of a victim of sexual assault
in the absence of corroboration as a rule, is adding insult to injury. Why should the
evidence of the girl or the woman who complains of rape or sexual molestation be

viewed with the aid of spectacles fitted with lenses tinged with doubt, disbelief or

Page 7 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

suspicion? To do so is to justify the charge of male chauvinism in a male dominated
society. We must analyze the argument in support of the need for corroboration and
subject it to relentless and remorseless cross-examination. And we must do so with a
logical, and not an opinionated, eye in the light of probabilities with our feet firmly
planted on the soil of India and with our eyes focused on the Indian horizon. We must
not be swept off the feet by the approach made in the Western World which has its
own social milieu, its own social mores, its own permissive values, and its own code of
life. Corroboration may be considered essential to establish a sexual offence in the
backdrop of the social ecology of the Western World. It is wholly unnecessary to
import the said concept on a turn-key basis and to translate it on the Indian soil

regardless of the altogether different atmosphere, attitudes, mores, responses of the

Indian Society, and its profile. The identities of the two worlds are different. "
The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the said judgment further observed as follows:

“Without the fear of making too wide a statement, or of overstating the

case, it can be said that rarely will a girl or a woman in India make false allegations of
sexual assault on account of any such factor as has been just enlisted. The statement
is generally true in the context of the urban as also rural Society. It is also by and
large true in the context of the sophisticated, not so sophisticated, and unsophisticated
society. Only very rarely can one conceivably come across an exception or two and
that too possibly from amongst the urban elites. Because :(1) A girl or a woman in the
tradition bound non-permissive Society of India would be extremely reluctant even to
admit that any incident which is likely to reflect on her chastity had ever occurred. (2)
She would be conscious of the danger of being ostracized by the Society or being
looked down by the Society including by her own family members, relatives, friends
and neighbours. (3) She would have to brave the whole world. (4) She would face the
risk of losing the love and respect of her own husband and near relatives, and of her
matrimonial home and happiness being shattered. (5) If she is unmarried, she would
apprehend that it would be difficult to secure an alliance with a suitable match from a
respectable or an acceptable family. (6) It would almost inevitably and almost
invariably result in mental torture and suffering to herself. (7) The fear of being
taunted by others will always haunt her. (8) She would feel extremely embarrassed in
relating the incident to others being over powered by a feeling of shame on account of

the upbringing in a tradition bound society where by and large sex is taboo. (9) The
Page 8 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

natural inclination would be to avoid giving publicity to the incident lest the family
name and family honour is brought into controversy. (10) The parents of an unmarried
girl as also the husband and members of the husband's family of a married woman
would also more often than not, want to avoid publicity on account of the fear of
social stigma on the family name and family honour. (11) The fear of the victim herself
being considered to be promiscuous or in some way responsible for the incident
regardless of her innocence. (12 The reluctance to face interrogation by the

investigating agency, to face the court, to face the cross examination by Counsel for

the culprit, and the risk of being disbelieved, acts as a deterrent. "

17. Let me now examine the evidence adduced by the prosecution in the light of the
observations made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. From the evidence adduced
by the prosecution side it appears that the entire incident came to light after about
8(eight) months when the mother of the victim girl(PW-1) noticed physical changes of
her daughter due to pregnancy. The only witness who was present at the time of the
incident was the victim herself. From the evidence of the victim girl (PW-2) it is also
clear that the accused took the opportunity of absence of the other family members in
his house while committing the crime. The victim stated that she was called by the
daughter-in-law of the accused to stay in the house of the accused till her return. On
another occasion she went to wash clothes in the tube well in the house of the accused.
The incident took place on various dates at different times. Therefore the evidence of
the other witnesses are relevant only so far as the pregnancy of the victim is concerned.
17. Now the first point to be decided is whether the victim girl was a minor at the
time of the occurrence. From the evidence on record it is clear that the |.0. did not
seize any birth certificate or school certificate of the victim girl. The PW-1 who is the
mother of the victim girl stated that at the time of incident the victim was aged about
15 years and she was reading in class VIII. In her cross-examination she denied the

suggestion that the victim girl was above 18 years at them time of the incident.

18. The PW-2(victim) while adducing evidence did not say anything about her age.
But in cross-examination affirmed that before filing of this case, her maternal uncle had
lodged a case against her and she faced trial in })B, Sivasagar as a juvenile in conflict
with law. So admittedly she was below 18 years at the relevant time. This fact was

brought on record by the defence side in her (PW-2) cross-examination.

Page 9 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

19. The PW-3 is the father of the victim. He stated that at the time of the incident
his daughter was above 18 years, but | do not find him reliable because in his evidence
he showed an indifferent attitude. Though the victim is his daughter but he stated in
cross-examination that he even does not know who had lodged the FIR. At the same

time he also stated that the victim is his daughter. So | do not rely on his evidence.

20. The PW-5 Dr. N. Choudhury in his evidence on the basis of the Radiological
report stated that the victim was aged below 18 years. It is pertinent to note here that
the PW-5 examined the victim girl after 8 (eight) months of the incident. The PW-5 was
not cross-examined by the defence. So his finding and opinion about the age of the
victim girl remain unrebutted. This part of the evidence of PW-5 regarding age of the
victim girl was brought to the notice of the accused during his examination u/s 313 of
Cr.P.C. and the accused admitted that at the time of medical examination of the victim

girl, she was below 18 years of age.

21. Therefore from the evidence as discussed above, it can be conclusively

concluded that at the time of the incident, the victim girl was below 18 years of age.

22. The second point to be decided is whether the accused committed penetrative

sexual assault on the victim girl repeatedly.

23. The PW-5 Dr. N. Choudhury in his evidence stated that on 11.11.2016 he
examined the victim girl and she was 34 weeks pregnant. As stated already, he was not
cross-examined by the defence. During his examination u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. when the
accused was asked about this fact, he simply expressed his ignorance. The accused
during his entire examination u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. simply expressed his ignorance about

the matter.

24. The PW-1 and PW-4 in their evidence stated that the victim was 8(eight) months
pregnant when the matter came to their knowledge. On being asked by her mother
(PW-1) the victim told that the accused repeatedly raped her in his house and
threatened her and asked her not to disclose the matter to anyone. So she remained
silent. But when the PW-1 noticed physical changes, she enquired and then the victim

girl disclosed every incident to her. The PW-4 came to know from the PW-1. The PW'’s

Page 10 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

also affirmed that the victim girl gave birth to a girl child and the said child was handed

over to Child Welfare Committee.

25. The PW-2 who is the victim in her evidence clearly stated that the accused raped
her repeatedly and threatened her with dire consequences in case she discloses the
matter to anyone. From the evidence record it appears that on one occasion she
(victim) went to wash clothes in the tube well in the house of the accused and accused
asked her to prepare a cup of tea. While she was preparing tea, the accused grabbed
her and raped her by gagging her mouth. On another occasion, she was requested by
the daughter-in-law of the accused to stay in their house till her return. So it can be
easily presumed that there was none in the house of the accused except the accused
and that is why his daughter-in-law asked the victim to stay in the house being their
neighbour. The accused took the opportunity to satisfy his lust and raped the minor girl
who was of his grand-daughter's age. In this way, on various occasions, the accused
raped the victim and ultimately she became pregnant. The victim girl in her statement
recorded u/s 164 of Cr.P.C. also stated in the similar manner.

In cross-examination some suggestions were put but her evidence remain
unshaken.

The PW-1 and PW-2 also stated that the accused offered money for termination

the pregnancy.

26. Section 5 of the POCSO Act defines aggravated penetrative sexual assault.
According to section 5(I) of POCSO Act whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on
the child more than once or repeatedly commits the offence of aggravated penetrative
sexual assault.

27. Section 6 of the POCSO Act provides for punishment for the offence.

28. Section 376(2) (n) of IPC says whoever commits rape repeatedly on the same

woman shall be punished under the said section.

29. Inthe instant case the victim is below 18 years of age. Therefore, section 29 of

POCSO Act which provides as follows is relevant:

“Presumption as to certain offences-- Where a person is prosecuted for

committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under sections 3, 5, 7 and

Page 11 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that such person has committed
or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may be unless the contrary

is proved.”

30. In the instant case from the evidence of the PW-1, PW-2 and PW-4 and the
medical evidence, the facts which are required to raise a presumption u/s 29 of the Act
have been proved, the presumption is drawn that the accused has committed the
offence u/s 5(|) of POCSO Act. The said presumption is rebuttable. But the accused has
not been able rebutted the said presumption either by means of direct evidence or by
means of any circumstantial evidence. The law is that the rebuttal need not be beyond
reasonable doubts. But in this case the defence failed to bring any material on record to
rebut the presumption raised u/s 29 of POCSO Act. Thus it is held that the prosecution
has proved that the accused committed the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual
assault as defined u/s 5(I) of POCSO Act.

31. From the discussion of the evidence on record it is established that the accused
forcefully made physical relation with the minor victim repeatedly and as a result she
became pregnant and gave birth a female child. Accordingly the accused is found guilty
for commission of the offence u/s 5(l) of the POCSO Act which is punishable u/s 6 of
POCSO Act.

32. The accused Laba Kanta Bora is accordingly convicted u/s 6 of POCSO Act.

33. Section 6 of POCSO Act provides for rigorous imprisonment for a period which
Shall not be less than ten years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and also
be liable to fine.

34. | have considered the applicability of section 3 & 4 of the Probation of Offenders
Act in this case. Considering the nature of offence proved by the prosecution and
considering the punishment provided for the offence the accused is found unfit to get

the benefit under the said provision of law.

35. Heard the convict on the point of sentence. His statement is recorded in

separate sheets. | have also heard Id. advocate of both the sides.

Page 12 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

36. On the point of awarding just sentence in a case of rape, Hon'ble Supreme Court
of India has observed in Shyam Narain -V- State (NCT Of Delhi), [(2013) 7 SCC
77] as follows:

“14. Primarily it is to be borne in mind that sentencing for any offence has a
special goal. Sentence is to be imposed regard being had to the nature of the offence
and the manner in which the offence has been committed. The fundamental purpose of
imposition of sentence is based on the principle that the accused must realize that the
crime committed by him has not only created a dent in his life but also a concavity in
the social fabric. The purpose of just punishment is designed so that the individuals in
the society which ultimately constitute the collective do not suffer time and again for
such crimes. It serves as a deterrent. True it is, on certain occasions, opportunities may
be granted to the convict for reforming himself but it is equally true that the principle of
proportionality between an offence committed and the penalty imposed are to be kept
in view. While carrying out this complex exercise, it is obligatory on the part of the
Court to see the impact of the offence on the society as a whole and its ramifications on

the immediate collective as well as its repercussions on the victim.”

37. Keeping in view of facts and circumstances of the case and age of the convict
and other facts that have emerged in evidence | am of the opinion that the minimum

sentence will meet the ends of justice.

38. Accordingly Laba Kanta Bora is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for
10 (ten) years for committing the offence u/s 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and also to pay fine
of Rs. 5,000.00 (five thousand) only, in default to undergo simple imprisonment for
3(three) months.

39. The convict is taken into custody and is remanded to District Jail, Sivasagar to

serve out the sentence.

40. The convict is entitled for the benefit of section 428 of Cr.P.C. for the period of

imprisonment already undergone during investigation and trial.
41. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the matter is referred to

DLSA, Sivasagar for awarding compensation to the victim u/s 357A of Cr.P.C. Send a

copy of this judgment to the Secretary, DLSA, Sivasagar for needful action.

Page 13 of 15
Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019

42. The convict is informed about his right to prefer appeal against this judgment &
order.

43. The bail bond executed by the accused stands discharged.
44. A free copy of this judgment be furnished to the convict u/s 363(1) of Cr.P.C.

45. Send a copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate, Sivasagar as per the
provisions of section 365 of Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 10 day of October, 2019.

Special | udge,

Sivasagar.

Page 14 of 15
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses:

PW 1 - Mother of the victim girl
PW 2- X (victim)

PW 3 - Father of the victim girl
PW 4 - Brother of the victim girl
PW 5 - Dr. Nirmalya Choudhury
PW 6 - Inspector Utpal Borah

2. Exhibits by prosecution-

Ext.1 - FIR
Ext.2 - statement u/s 164 of Cr.P.C of victim,
Ext.3 - Medical examination report
Ext.4 - Copy of GD entry
Ext. 5 - Sketch map
Ext. 6- Charge-sheet
3. Defence witnesses-
Nil
4. Defence exhibits-
Nil
5. Court witnesses-
Nil
6. Court exhibits-
Nil
Special J udge,

Sivasagar.

Page 15 of 15

Special (P) Case No. 53/2016
Date: 10-10-2019
