Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s :

313 of CrP.
Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel of the Prosecution

Counsel. for Accused

61 OF 2017

(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act,

arising out of GR Case No 3328 of 2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

State of Assam

-Vs-

1.Sri Bhai Bhuyan

S/o Sri Ramesh Bhuyan,

Vill- Jamuguri, Borbhugia

P.S. — Jamuguri,

Dist — Sonitpur, Assam

16-12-2017.

30-12-2017, 11-01-2018,24-01-2018.

22-02-2018.

22-02-2018.
22-02-2018.

Mr Munindra Ch Baruah,
Special Public Proecutor,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Mr HP Sadai, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Bhai Bhuyan is put for trial for the allegation
of charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that on or about

9.30 PM of 27-08-2017 accused came to the house of informant and kidnapped her

on the pretext of love affairs. Thereafter, informants daughter was hide in some
Page |2

unknown place. Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the informant Sri Pabitra Saikia before the OC,
Jamuguri Police Station on 28-08-2017.

4, On receipt of the ejahar, O/C, Jamuguri Police Station registered the
case vide Jamuguri Police Station Case No 107/17 under Section 365 of the IPC.
After completion of investigation, O/C, Jamuguri Police Station sent up the case
against the accused person under Section 4 of POCSO Act, r/w Section 363 of IPC.

5. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
the parties, charge framed under Section 4 of POCSO Act, r/w Section 365 of the
IPC. Particulars of the charge was read over, explained to,the,accused to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

6. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as six PWs
including the informant and victim. After examination of the witnesses, learned
Counsel for the accused submitted to .close.the prosecution evidence on the ground
that the statement of victim stated nothing against the accused as to the alleged
offence. Besides, in her statement.under Section 164 of CrPC she stated that she was
in love with the accused so, at.her repeated request, accused took her. Therefore, no
ingredients of alleged charge_is revealed. Therefore, it would be futile to examine the

other witnesses. Learned)Special PP also conceded.

7. On perusal of the statement of witnesses including the complainant
and victim, I think that prosecution case would not develop, even if examine the
other prosecution witnesses, as they were no way supported the prosecution case.
Even.if examine the other witnesses, prosecution case would not develop. Speedy
trial is the right of the accused person. Considering this all, prosecution evidence is

closed.

8. Accused is examined under Section 313 CrPC and the evidence
appears against the accused persons and the allegations made against the accused
person are put before me for his explanation where they denied the allegations and

declined to give defence evidence.
Page |3

9. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned Counsel for
both the sides.

10. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) "Whether the accused, on 27-08-2017 at about
9.30 PM, at Borbhugia under Jamuguri PS,
committed penetrative sexual assault to Smti "X”
aged about 16 years minor girl and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 4
of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

 

11. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidences on
record.
12. PW1- Sri Dhon Borah deposed_that.he knows accused Bhai Bhuyan

who is present in the dock. Victim Puja Saikia is his sister-in-law, i.e. she is the
daughter of the maternal uncle of his .wife..The incident took place on 27-08-2017.
At the relevant day at about 9/9.30 PM.we are about to have dinner. Then Pabitra
Saikia rings him and called him to his house stating that Puja was missing from his
house. Then, he along with his wife Smti Karishma and his two years old son rushed
to the place of occurrence,.which is about 200 meter from his house. We searched
Puja Saikia vigorously in nearby area, but, could not trace her out. Then, I informed
to police and giving.missing entry. In the next morning they came to know that Puja
went with<accused Bhai Bhuyan. Then, after recovery of the victim, father of the
victim filed the written ejahar.

In his cross-examination, he stated that on that very night they have
givexmissing entry at the police station. He does not know if Puja Saikia has love
affairs with Bhai Bhuyan. It is a fact that he has stated to police that Puja Saikia
loved Bhai Bhuyan, so, she went with accused Bhai Bhuyan. Other than that, he does

not know anything about the incident.

13. PW2- Sri Pabitra Saikia deposed that he knows accused Bhai Bhuyan
who is present in the dock. Victim Puja Saikia is his daughter. The incident took place
on 27-08-2017. On that day at about 9/9.30 PM my daughter Puja was missing from
Page |4

his house. They have vigorously searched her, but, could not find her. In the next
day he filed the case before the police station. Though accused resides at the house
which is adjacent and the same boundary of his house, inspite of knowing that they
have searched the victim, the family members of the accused did not disclosed that
the victim was kept in their house. Thereafter, police recovered his daughter by
breaking open the lock of the house of the accused. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1)
is his signature. Ext.1 was written by one scribe as per his dictation. He knows
reading and writing, therefore, after reading the ejahar, I put his signature thereon.
In cross-examination, he stated that he admitted that accused Bhai
Bhuyan belongs to Adibasi community and the accused is economically not‘sound. As
the accused Bhai Bhuyan belongs to other community, they do«notvlike to give

marriage his daughter to him.

14. PW3- Smti Buli Saikia, the mother of the\victim deposed that she
knows accused Bhai Bhuyan who is present in the_dock. He belongs to their village.
Complainant is her husband. The incident took-place on 27-08-2017 at about 8.30
PM. Victim Puja Saikia is her daughter. At the time of incident she is 16 years old. On
the day of occurrence, she did not take her.dinner. She searched for her, but, could
not found her. Then, she informed.thexmatter to her elder brother Bhaskar Saikia.
Bhaskar Saikia arrived and they vigorously searched her, but, could find her. In the
next day, while she along with her husband went to the police station, to inform
about the matter, the OG, Jamuguri PS told us that it is the accused who kidnapped
her daughter. Then, ‘her husband Pabitra Saikia filed the ejahar. On the same day,
police recovered her daughter Puja Saikia along with accused. Thereafter, police sent
her daughter. for” medical examination and then also sent her to the Court for
recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. Thereafter, her daughter was given
to-our.custody.

In cross-examination, she stated that at the time recovery of her
daughter, she was at police station. She cannot say from where her daughter was

recovered. Bhai Bhuyan is her neighbour.

15. PW4 - Sri Bhaskar Saikia deposed that he knows accused Bhai
Bhuyan who is present in the dock. He belongs to their village. Complainant is his
brother-in-law. The incident took place on 27-08-2017 at about 9.30 PM. Victim Puja

Saikia is his niece. At the time of incident her age was 16 years. On the day of
Page |5

incident at about 9.45 PM, his sister Buli Saikia informed me that her daughter/victim
was missing from her house and then he rushed to her house and we vigorously
searched his niece, but, we could not find her. Then, in the next day i.e. on 28-07-
2017 while he was in School, he came to know that the victim was recovered by
police from the lock and key room of accused Bhai Bhuyan. After recovery of the
victim, his brother-in-law filed a case against accused. Police recorded his statement.
After recovery, police sent Puja Saikia/victim for medical examination and then also
sent her to the Court for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. Police
seized one HSLC Certificate of Puja Saikia. Ext. 2 is the said HSLC certificate of Puja
Saikia and Ext. 2(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination, he stated that he has not stated to. police that Puja
Saikia was recovered from the lock & key room of Bhai Bhuyan. He has not seen how
and from whom house, the victim was recovered. He doesnot, know if the accused

and victim had love affairs.

16. PW5 — the victim Miss “X” stated. that she knows accused Bhai
Bhuyan who is present in the dock. He belongs to their village. The incident took
place on 27-08-2017 at about 9.30 PM..On that day accused took her to his house by
enticing her. The mother of accused Bhai Bhuyan locked me in their home. Accused
asked me not to inform that matter_to my parents. Thereafter, her father filed the
ejahar and police recovered her. Then only she came to know that her father has
filed a case. Then police took me for medical examination by the doctor and then
sent me to the Court for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. Ext.3 is
her statement under Section 164 CrPC and Ext. 3(1) and Ext. 3(2) are her
signatures.

In her cross-examination, she admitted that since, Bhai Bhuyan belongs
to-Adibasi community and they are belongs to Assamese community so, to resist her

from.marrying to the accused her parents filed this false case against the accused.

17. PW6 — Smti Bijoya Khaklary stated that On 29-08-17 she was posted
at Tezpur as Judicial Magistrate, 1 Class, Tezpur. On that day in reference to
Jamugir Police Station Case No 107/17, under Section 365 of IPC, she has recorded
the statement of one Miiss Puja Saikia, D/o Sri Pabitra Saikia, of village Borbhogia,
under Jamuguri PS in her Court chamber. At the time of recording of the statement,

other than her and witness, none was there. The witness made statement
Page |6

voluntarily. After recording her statement, she has read over the contents of the
contents of the statement and on acceptance, she put her signature thereon. The
victim was escorted and identified by one Nayanjyoti Gogoi PLV M No17. Ext.3(3) is
her signature in Ext.3. Ext.4 is the relevant order dated 29-08-2017 for recording
statement under Section 164 CrPC and Ext.4(1) is her signature

17. These much is the prosecution evidence.

18. The accused is charged under Section 4 of POCSO Act. To prove the
charge under Section 4 of POCSO Act, prosecution must prove that —

Penetrative Sexual Assault. A person is said to commit “Penetrative sexual
Assault’ if -

"a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina,
mouth urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person;

b) h e inserts, to any extent..any object or a part of the
body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the
child or makes the child to do so.with him or any other person; or

Cc) he manipulates.any part of the body of the child so as to
cause penetration into the vagina) urethra, anus or any part of body or
the child or makes the child_to do so with him or any other person; or

d) he applies. his ‘mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra
or the child to do so.to such person or any other person’.

19. In this type of cases, the evidence of victim is much more important.
Here in this case, the victim PW-5 stated that the incident took place on
27-08-2017 at about 9.30 PM. On that day accused took her to his house by enticing
her. Thesmother of accused Bhai Bhuyan locked me in their home. Accused asked me
not to inform that matter to my parents. Thereafter, her father filed the ejahar and
police recovered her. Then only she came to know that her father has filed a case.
From the statement of the victim it appears that she did not give any evidence as to
the alleged offence against the accused. She only stated that mother of the accused
has locked her in a room. Though the doctor was not examined, as prosecution
failed to produce him, according to medico-legal report available in the record, it
appears that the victim is above 18 years. Other than that medico-legal report, there
is no any evidence that the IO has collected any birth certificate or age certificate or

certificate from the school where the victim first admitted. Therefore, from the
Page |7

aforesaid medico-legal report we can come to conclusion that victim is a major one.
So, obviously the case cannot come under Section 4 of the POCSO Act. On the other
hand, it is interesting to state that while the statement of victim was recorded under
Section 164 CrPC, the victim stated before the learned Magistrate that she loves the
accused for last 3/4 months. On 27-08-2017 at about 8.30 PM, she called accused
Sanju to bring her, though initially, he was not agreed, but, on repeated request, on
that very day, he came to her house at about 9 PM and she without informing any of
their family members, meet the accused at the road and she at her own will, went
with the accused. Therefore, the victim even not stated before the learned
Magistrate about any of the ingredients required to fulfill the allegation \of=charge
under Section 4 of POCSO Act. Besides, that other witnesses have-also stated
nothing about the incident. Therefore, I am bound to hold that prosecution has failed
to prove the charge under Section 4 of POCSO Act. As such, I do not have any
hesitation to acquit the accused. Accordingly, accused Sri Bhai Bhuyan is acquitted
and set them at liberty forthwith.

21. The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

22. Send back the LCR.

Given under my. Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 22™ day of
February, 2018.

(A. K. Borah)

Special Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Dictated*andscorrected by me.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |8

APPENDIX

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Sri Dhon Borah,

2.PW2 — Sri Pabitra Saikia, Complainant,
3.PW3 — Smti Buli Saikia,

4.PW4 — Sri Bhaskar Sakia,

5.PW5 — Smti “X” (Victim) &

6.PW6 — Smti B Khaklary, (Magistrate)

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

Ext. 1 : The ejahar,

Ext. 2 : HSLC Certificate of victim,

Ext. 3 : Statement of victim recorded under’Section 164 of CrPC,

Ext. 4 : The relevant order of recording statement under Section 164 CrPC.

aed

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
