CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 75/15

Informant: 'Y'.

Accused: Sri Ghonen Bhumij,
S/o- Late Joysingh Bhumij,
R/o- Baghmora, Khanikar,
PS- Tingkhong,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri Utpal Borah, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH
Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 75/15
G.R. Case No. 2783/15
State of Assam
-Vs-

Sri Ghonen Bhumij

Charges: Under Section 8 POCSO Act.
Date of evidence on: 08-08-16, 16-09-16, 08-11-16, 16-03-17, 29-11-17,
05-02-18
Date of argument: 05-02-19.
Date of Judgment: 05-03-19.
JUDGMENT

1) The facts leading to this case is that on 30-09-15, at about 9:00 am, when
the victim say-'X' (13 % years of age) was alone at home, Sri Ghonen Bhumij
(hereinafter the accused) entered into her house and attempted to commit
rape on her. When the victim screamed, her neighbours Smt. Manjula Tanti
and Smt. Anu Patnayak came to her rescue and the accused fled. An ejahar
regarding this incident was lodged by the victim’s father 'Y' (hereinafter the
informant). A GD Entry No. 66 dtd. 04-10-15 was registered and the ejahar
was forwarded to the Tingkhong Police Station which was registered as
Tingkhong PS Case No. 111/15 under Sections 448/376/511 of the Indian
Penal Code (IPC for short) and ASI Kanteswar Moran was endorsed with the
investigation and SI Bhaskar Jyoti Phukan was endorsed to complete the
investigation. Both the police officers (IO in short) embarked upon the

investigation. They went to the place of occurrence, recorded the statements

of the witnesses and prepared the Sketch-Map. The victim was forwarded to
2)

3)

4)

the Magistrate for recording her statement and to the doctor for medical
examination. On finding prima facie materials, the IO submitted Charge
Sheet against the accused under Sections 448/376/511 IPC, read with
Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(POCSO Act for short).
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of ten
witnesses, including the IO and exhibited several documents, whereas the
defence cross-examined the witnesses to refute the charges. On the
inculpatory circumstances arising against him, the answers of the accused to
the questions under Section 313(1)(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure
(CrPC for short) depicts a plea of total denial.
Submissions:

The learned Public Prosecutor Smt. Runumi Devi and learned Addl. Public
Prosecutor Mrs. Sahnaz Akhtar laid stress through their arguments that this
case has been proved beyond a reasonable doubt and the accused deserves
stringent punishment, considering the contumacious act. The learned defence
counsel Sri Utpal Borah laid stress through his argument that a case has been
Surreptitiously foisted against the accused pursuant to political rivalry
between both the parties. The major contradictions are apparent, because
the victim herself contradicted her statement vis. a vis. her testimony. The
victim is not a minor. It is also submitted that the evidence of all other
witnesses is hearsay evidence.

Points for determination:
As charge was framed only under Section 8 POCSO Act, the point to be taken

up for determination is: Whether the accused committed sexual assault on
5)

6)

7)

the victim on 30-09-15, who took the advantage of the absence of her
parents?
Decision thereon and the reasons for the decision:

To decide the case in its proper perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence.

The victim 'X' testified as PW-2 that the accused person is her neighbour. The
incident occurred on 30-09-15, at about 9:00 am. At that time, she was
having her food inside her house and her parents went out for work. The
accused then entered into her house and embraced her from behind and
groped her breasts. Then she screamed and Tanu Patnayak and Manjula
Tanti came to her rescue and the accused fled. She narrated the incident to
Manjula and Tanu. In the evening, at about 4:00 pm, when her parents
returned home, she informed them about the incident. On the next day, the
villagers arranged a meeting and she informed the villagers about the
incident in the meeting. The accused was not present in the meeting.
Thereafter, her father lodged the FIR with the police at Rajgarh Outpost. The
police recorded her statement and forwarded her to the Court and the
Magistrate recorded her statement. Ext. 2 is her statement and Ext. 2(1) and
Ext. 2(2) are her signatures. The police took her to the Assam Medical
College & Hospital at Dibrugarh for medical examination, but she refused
medical examination.

In her cross-examination, she testified that she is a student of Class-VIII and
her date of birth is 02-02-2000. She testified that Munin Baruah, Chandan,
Guni, Gojen, Binud, Budhan, Bivisan and a person named Gupta are her
neighbours who resides with their respective families. There is a path (gobat)

in front of their house which is used by the local people. The accused wanted
8)

9)

to increase the breadth of the path, but the villagers including her father
restrained him from widening the path. She further testified in her cross-
examination that she stated before the police that she went to the school on
30-09-15 and she indeed went to the school at that time.

It is pertinent to mention at this juncture that this witness was cross-
examined in extenso, but no contradiction could be elicited through her
cross-examination, except that she did not state under Section 164 CrPC that
when her parents returned home, she informed them about the incident.
Apart from this, no contradiction could be elicited. The testimony of the
witnesses is consistent to her statement under Section 164 CrPC as well as to
her testimony under Section 161 CrPC. The IO ASI Kanteswar Moran has
affirmed through his cross-examination as PW-10 that the victim did not state
under Section 161 CrPC that she informed about the incident to her parents.
The victim may not have stated that she informed about the incident to her
parents, but it is apparent from the evidence that the accused is complicit.
She was not cross-examined by the learned defence counsel regarding any
failure to state that the accused committed sexual assault on her by groping
her breasts. It is clear from the evidence that when she was alone at home
and was preparing to go to school, the accused entered into her house and

groped her breasts from behind.

10) This evidence of PW-2 is corroborated and supported by the evidence of Smt.

Manjula Tanti who testified as PW-6 that the accused is her neighbour, while
the informant is her brother-in-law (borjona). The incident took place about
3/4 months ago (from 16-03-17). Before leaving for school, the victim was
alone at home and she was shouting “Khurideo......Khurideo” and so she went

to the victim’s house which is adjacent to her house. As soon as she reached
the victim’s house, she saw the accused person leaving her house. After
reaching her house, she asked the victim as to what had happened and the
victim informed her that the accused tried to embrace her in an immodest
way. The victim was crying. On the earlier occasions also, the accused used
to display indecent gestures to the victim whenever he met her alone or
whenever she was alone at home. The victim's parents arrived and a meeting
was called and it was decided in the meeting to lodge a case against the

accused.

11) This witness was cross-examined regarding her omission to state before the
IO that at the time of leaving for school, the victim was alone and she
screamed “Kfurideo...... Khurideo” and that she did not state under Section
161 CrPC that on earlier occasions also, the accused used to display indecent
gestures to the victim when she was alone at home. This omission has been

affirmed by the IO who testified as PW-10.

12) It is true that PW-6 did not state under Section 161 CrPC that at the time of
leaving for school, the victim shouted and that the victim stated before him
that the accused used to display indecent gestures. At the same time, it is
also true that this witness, PW-6 was not cross-examined regarding any
further omission. Thus, it is implicit that this witness indeed mentioned about
the accused person’s complicity. Her evidence that the accused committed
sexual assaulted on the victim, remained uncontradicted ad uncontroverted.
Nuance of this nature has to be detected inevitably. It is true that an
innocent person should not be incarcerated, but at the same time, the guilty

should not be go scot free.
13) The evidence of PW-7 lends corroboration to the evidence of PWs-2 and 6.
Smt. Tanu Patnaik testified as PW-7 that the accused, complainant and the
victim are her neighbours. The alleged incident took place about a year ago.
It was at about 9:00 am and she was at home when she heard the victim
screaming from her house and she immediately went there and reached her
house and saw the accused coming out of her house. She asked the victim as
to what had happened and the victim informed her that the accused tried to
embrace her. A case regarding this incident was lodged with the police and

her statement was recorded.

14)In her cross-examination, PW-7 denied that she had given false evidence as
tutored by Debaru. She denied of her omission to state before the IO that at
the time of the alleged incident, she heard the victim screaming and when
she went to her house, she saw the accused coming out from her house and

the victim informed her that the accused tried to embrace her.

15)I have carefully scrutinized the evidence of the 10. The IO was not
questioned regarding such omission. This implies that PW-7 indeed
mentioned before the IO that when she came out on hearing the victim's
cries, she saw the accused person coming out of the victim’s house and the

victim informed her that the accused tried to embrace her.

16)In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that there is clinching
evidence. PW-2"s evidence is supported and corroborated by the evidence of
PWs-6 and 7 who immediately went to her house after she screamed. The
accused had no business to go to the victim’s house and embrace her and
grope her breasts when she was alone at home. The evidence of PWs-6 and

7 is supported and corroborated by the evidence of PW-1 Sri Debaru Orang
who testified that he is the president of the VDP of Nilmoni Khanikar Gaon
under Rajgarh Outpost. On 30-09-15, the informant 'Y' went to his house and
informed him that the accused tried to commit rape on his daughter at his
residence. Then he called for a meeting in his village and the villagers
advised the informant 'Y' to lodge the FIR. Accordingly, 'Y' lodged the FIR
which was written by him according to ‘Y's narrative and 'Y' affixed his
signature on the FIR. Ext. 1 is the FIR and Ext. 1(1) is his signature as the
scribe of the FIR. He met the victim in the meeting which was held in their
village, after the incident, where 'X' informed him that the accused attempted

to commit rape on her while she was alone at home.

17)In his cross-examination, PW-1 admitted that he is a member of AGP and he
is the president of Tingkhong Tea Cell of AGP, while the accused is a member

of INC.

18)At this juncture, it is pertinent to mention that the reason regarding the
animosity and political rivalry between PW-1 and the accused person, does
not appear plausible enough that a case of such a serious nature will be
foisted by holding the victim as bait by her own father. Both the PW-1 and
the accused person are members of rival political factions, but they are not
contesting candidates for any post to go to an extent of mud-slinging with
such serious allegations. It is true that PW-1 admitted that the FIR was
lodged after four days, but this does not mean that the FIR has been scripted
and fabricated. Immediately after the incident, the victim’s father went to the
VDP president and the VDP president called for a meeting. After the meeting,

it was decided to bring the accused to book. The theory of political rivalry is
found to be too farfetched and sketchy. It is also held that the evidence of

PW-1 remained uncontradicted and uncontroverted.

19)The evidence of PWs-1, 2, 6 and 7 is supported by the evidence of the
informant 'Y' who testified as PW-4 that the accused resides in their village
and the victim 'X' is his daughter who is 14 (fourteen) years of age. The
incident occurred about a year ago. On the day of the incident, he and his
wife went out for daily work, while their daughter 'X' was alone at home.
When he returned home in the evening, at about 4:00 pm, he learnt from his
wife and Manjula Tanti that the accused tried to commit rape on his daughter
'X' while she was alone at home. When he asked his daughter about the
incident, she informed him that while she was alone at home, the accused
tried to commit rape on her. On the next day, he arranged a meeting in their
locality, but the accused was absent. The members of the VDP could not take
any decision and they advised him to inform the Rajgarh Outpost. The FIR
was written by Debaru Orang, the president of the VDP and after reading the
contents of the FIR, he affixed his signature and lodged the same with
Rajgarh Outpost. Ext. 1 is the FIR and Ext. 1(2) is his signature. His daughter
"'X' accompanied him along with his wife 'Z' to the said outpost and the police
recorded their statements. He also submitted his daughter’s school certificate

as age proof document.

20) This witness was also cross-examined in extenso, but the defence failed to

elicit any contradiction through his extensive cross-examination.

21)I have carefully scrutinized the evidence of the IO and it is clear from the
cross-examination that no contradiction could be elicited through the cross-

examination of PW-4 as well as the cross-examination of the IO. This witness
10

was cross-examined extensively regarding the delay in the lodgment of the
FIR. But the delay has already been explained by PW-1 as well as PW-4. One
day was wasted in the meeting which was arranged by the VDP president
after he was informed. This is how two days went past and on the third day,
the FIR was lodged. The evidence of PWs-1, 2, 4, 6 and 7 is also supported
and corroborated by the evidence of 'Z' who testified as PW-3 that the
accused person is their neighbour and the victim is her daughter. On 30-09-
15, the incident occurred. On that day, at about 1:00 pm, when she returned
to her house, her daughter tearfully informed her that the accused entered
into their house while she was taking meal before proceeding to her school at
about 9:00 am. At that time, her daughter screamed and hearing her cries,
Manjula Tanti (PW-6) and Tanu Patnayak (PW-7) came to their house and
Manjula saw the accused person leaving their house. When her husband
returned home from work in the evening, she informed him about the
incident and he informed the villagers about the incident. On the next day, a
meeting was held, but the accused was not present. The villagers advised her
husband to inform the police and her husband lodged the ejahar against the

accused person.

22)This witness was cross-examined in extenso. She was extensively cross-
examined regarding the date of occurrence. She admitted that Debaru Orang
told her about the date of occurrence. She also admitted in her cross-
examination that she omitted to state before the police that a meeting was
called by her husband by gathering the villagers and she did not know who
presided over the meeting. However, these omissions do not cause a dent in
the evidence. She may not know the exact date of the incident and may have

been informed by Debaru Orang about the date of the incident, but this does
11

not thwart the evidence. These are minor contradictions which can be safely

brushed aside.

23)I have already elaborately discussed in my foregoing discussions that the
political rivalry also does not impel us to believe that a case will be foisted
against the accused using the minor victim as bait. It is held that the
evidence of the witnesses clearly depicts that the victim was having meal and
as she was about to go to school, the accused stealthily entered into her
house and attempted to assault her sexually. He held her in an inappropriate
manner and embraced her. The victim is around the age of puberty and it
was not proper for the accused to enter her house when she was alone and
grope her breasts or embrace her. The act of the accused forms a part of the
same transaction as envisaged under Section 6 of the Evidence Act, which is

admissible as a part of ‘res gestae’.

24)The evidence of PWs-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 is also supported and
corroborated by the evidence of PWs-8 and 9. Smt. Asha Tanti testified as
PW-8 that the accused, the victim and her parents are known to her. The
incident occurred about a year ago. After returning from work in the evening,

she heard from the neighbours that an incident took place.

25) Although this witness denied any knowledge of the incident, it is clear from
her testimony that an incident occurred about a year ago, i.e., at the time
described by the informant, the victim, the VDP president and the mother of
the victim as the date of the occurrence. The evidence of PW-9 also
corroborates and the evidence of the other witnesses, because Smt. Bharati

Patnayak testified as PW-9 that the accused person and the victim are known
12

to her. She heard from the victim’s mother that the accused touched the

victim and then the informant lodged this case.

26) The IO ASI Kanteswar Moran testified as PW-11 that on 04-10-15, he was
posted at Rajgarh Outpost as ASI. On that day, the In-Charge received an
FIR from 'Y' and registered GD Entry No. 66 dtd. 04-10-15 and forwarded the
same to the Tingkhong Police Station and entrusted him with preliminary
investigation. Ext. 1 is the FIR and Ext. 1(3) is the signature of Bhaskar Jyoti
Phukan. The OC registered Tingkhong PS Case No. 111/15 with a direction to
continue the case. He met the informant and recorded his statement. On the
next day, the victim along with her mother appeared in the outpost and he
recorded their statement in the outpost. He sent the victim to the Assam
Medical College & Hospital at Dibrugarh for medical examination. He went to
the place of occurrence, prepared the Sketch-Map and recorded the
statements of the witnesses. Ext. 3 is the Sketch-Map and Ext. 3(1) is his
signature. He forwarded the victim to the Court for recording her statement
under Section 164 CrPC. he collected the Medico-legal Report Ext. 4. He tried
to apprehend the accused, but could not arrest him and he was shown as
absconder in the charge sheet. After completion of investigation, he handed
over the Case Diary to the In-Charge and after perusal of the same, Charge-
Sheet was laid by the In-Charge of the outpost. Ext. 5 is the Charge-Sheet
and Ext. 5(1) is his signature.

27) This witness was cross-examined in extenso.

28) It has already been held in my foregoing discussions that the evidence of the
victim, PWs-6 and 7 and the evidence of the other witnesses remained
uncontradicted and uncontroverted. The theory of political rivalry between

two rival faction appears to be farfetched and sketchy. However, no overt act
13

of attempt to commit rape could be attributed to the accused. The victim
herself did not testify that the accused attempted to commit rape on her. Her
evidence depicts that the accused groped her breasts. The accused was
charged under Section 8 POCSO Act and he is held guilty of the offence
under Section 8 POCSO Act.

29) The date and time given by the witnesses are found to be reliable. The victim
is a school student and she will indeed remember the date and time when
she was sexually assaulted by an elderly person. The other witnesses, for
example, PWs-4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 have given an approximate date and time.
They testified that the incident took place about a year ago or a few months
ago.

30)I have carefully scrutinized the date given by PWs-1, 2, 3 and 10, which
clearly depicts that the incident occurred around the time given by the other
witnesses. PWs-1, 2, 3 and 10 have given the accurate date and time of the
incident. I would like to rely on the decision of Hon“ble Gauhati High Court in
Arun Tanti vs. State of Assam 2018 (4) GLT 1002, wherein it has been
observed that:-

20. The accused being a matured man has indulged
himself in such affairs knowing fully well that the
victim is a minor one which clearly established that
the accused/appellant has culpable mental state to
have sexual intercourse with a minor girl, which has
rendered him liable for the offence u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act. The Ld. Trial Court has_ properly
appreciated all the matters on record and has taken

note of non compliance of provision of POCSO Act
14

mentioned above and also the legal pronouncement
that the child witness is a competent witness to
depose before the Court and conviction can be rest
upon such evidence of child witness if found
reliable, as has been held in Dattu Ramarao Sakhre
Vs. State of Maharastra (1997) 5 SCC 341,
Ratansingh D. Nayak Vs. State of Gujarat (2004) 1
SCC 64.

31) Reverting back to this case, it is thereby held that the testimony of the victim
is found to be reliable. In a case under POCSO Act, the evidence of a child
witness is bolstered by the provision of presumption. The accused is found
guilty of offence under Section 8 POCSO Act. There is unblemished and
clinching evidence against the accused.

32)I have heard the accused on the point of sentence. He has prayed for
leniency, as he claims to be innocent.

33)I have considered the submission of the accused and an interaction with him
convinces me that there is room for reformation. Suffice it to mention that a
few years of confinement will meet the interest of justice.

SENTENCE:

34) The accused Sri Ghonen Bhumij is convicted under Section 8 of the POCSO
Act and is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI in short) for 3
(three) years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand) only
and in default of payment of fine, to undergo RI for 1 (one) month. The
period of detention of the accused during investigation and trial is set off with
his custodial sentence. The fine realized, will be deposited in the cost fund of

the District Legal Services Authority, Dibrugarh.
15

35) This case is recommended for victim’s compensation under the Assam Victims
Compensation Scheme, 2012.

36)Send a copy of this judgment and order to the Secretary of District Legal
Services Authority, Dibrugarh for assessment of the victim’s compensation.

37) Furnish free copies of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.
Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 5"" day of

March, 2019.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Contd.
16

APPENDIX
POCSO Case No. 75/15

List of witnesses for prosecution:
. PW-1 Sri Debaru Orang;

1

2. PW-2 The victim 'X';

3. PW-3 'Z';

4, PW-4 'Y';

5. PW-5 Sri Bhuban Khanikar;
6. PW-6 Smt. Manjula Tanti;

7. PW-7 Smt. Tanu Patnaik;

8. PW-8 Smt. Asha Tanti;

9. PW-9 Smt. Bharati Patnayak; and
10. PW-10 ASI Kanteswar Moran.

List of exhibits for prosecution:
1. Ext. 1 Ejahar;

2. Ext. 2 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
3. Ext. 3 Sketch-Map;

4. Ext. 4 Medico-legal Report; and

5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.

List of material exhibits for prosecution: Nil. List of witnesses for defence: Nil.
List of exhibits for defence: Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
