IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE :: :: SIVASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions J udge cum Special J udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 3 of 2014

U/ S 366/ 344 I PC, R/ W Section 6 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Mathurapur P.S. Case No. 132/2013)

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Manglu Chetry ........eeeees Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Sri A. K. Bora, PP, Sivasagar.
For the accused Sri B.B. Lohar, Advocate
Date of framing Charge: 29.08.2014
Dates of Evidence 26.09.2014, 20.11.2014, 23.04.2015,

29.05.2015, 08.02.2017

Date of S/D 30.03.2017
Date of Argument 25.10.2017
Date of J udgment 07.11.2017

JUDGMENT
1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 29.11.2013, one Sri Dipak

Guwalla lodged a complaint before learned Sub-Divisional J udicial Magistrate,
Charaideo at Sonari stating that on 23.09.2013 while his minor daughter, victim
‘}' (name withheld) was going to school, accused Monglu Rajput kidnapped her
by inducing the said victim and kept her confined from 23.09.2013 to
10.11.2013 and committed rape and also physically assaulted her causing
injuries. It is further stated that immediately after the kidnap, he informed the
matter to Mathurapur Police Station, but the VDP has assured him for recovery
of his daughter through village meeting and for this the case was not registered
by the said Mathurapur P.S. However said VDP has failed to bring back the

Spl. (P) Case No. 3/2014 Page 1 of 9
daughter of the informant and lastly on 11.11.2013, at about 9.30 A.M. the
victim flew away from the house of the accused and arrived at the residence of
the informant. The informant also suspects that his minor daughter was

pregnant.

2. On receipt of the complaint, same was forwarded to Mathurapur
P.S. for registering a case and to investigate. Accordingly Mathurapur P.S. Case
No.132/2013, U/S 366(A)/344/323 IPC, R/W Section 5 (J)(I1)(m) of POCSO Act
was registered and investigated into the case. During investigation, |.0. visited
the place of occurrence and recorded the statement of the witnesses. During
investigation, accused was arrested and the victim was produced before the
learned J MFC, Charaideo, Sonari for recording her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
and also got her medically examined. On completion of investigation, 1.0. has
submitted Charge-Sheet against the above named accused U/S 366/376 IPC.

3. After furnishing copy to the accused person, vide order dated
29.08.2014, the the presiding judge charge U/S 366/344 IPC, R/W Section 6 of
POCSO Act, 2012 has been framed against accused to which he pleaded not
guilty and claimed to stand trial. During trial, prosecution side has examined as

many as ten witnesses including the M.O. and 1.0.

4, Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was
called upon to enter into defence. Defence case is of total denial and false

implication.

Di. | have heard argument of learned PP Mr. A.K. Bora and Mr. B.B.

Lohar, learned defence counsel and gone through the evidence and documents.

6. In the course of argument hearing, learned P.P. has submitted
that from the evidence of P.W. 1, the victim, it appears that she has
categorically mentioned about her kidnap, wrongful confinement and
commission of rape by the accused against her will. As such her evidence is
found reliable. On the other hand, learned Advocate for the accused has

vehemently argued that though the informant and the victim has claimed the
Spl. (P) Case No. 3/2014 Page 2 of 9
age of the victim below 18 years, but from the evidence of P.W. 5, the M.O. it
appears that a clear finding was given that the victim '|' was above the age of
18 years and below the age of 25 years. Prosecution has not brought any other
materials to override this evidence on age, particularly school document though
admittedly the victim was a student of Class-VIII at that time. It is also argued
that from the evidence of P.W. 1 to P.W. 3 it is clear that, victim on her own
went to the accused and stayed with him as his wife and subsequently she left
the house of the accused. It is further argued that the allegations of kidnap or
wrongful confinement or rape are not proved and the evidence of P.W. 1 alone
cannot be relied upon due to non-corroboration from the evidence of P.W. 2
and P.W. 3 or any other witnesses. It is also argued that admittedly a village
meeting was convened to settle the dispute fully knowing where about of the
victim and the accused and hence there cannot be any wrongful confinement. |

have considered the submission of both the sides.
7. POINTS FOR DETERMI NATION ARE -
(i) What was the age of the victim on the date of incident, i.e. on
23.09.2013?

(iil) | Whether on 23.09.2013 accused kidnapped the victim with an
intention to compel her to marry or for seducing illicit intercourse?

(ili) Whether the accused has wrongfully confined the victim for about
49 days?

(iv) | Whether the victim was subjected to penetrative sexual assault by
the accused against her will? If so, whether accused has committed
offence of penetrative sexual assault?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF -

8. PW 1 the victim in her evidence deposed that she was a student
of class IX and on 23.09.2013 she went to school, but due to her late arrival
She had to return home. While she was returning home, she meet with Monki
Rajput, sister of the accused who took her to Dol Bagan to her sister's
residence and thereafter Monki left the house. In the evening, accused came

and forcibly took her and kept her for 3 days and also assured to marry her.

Spl. (P) Case No. 3/2014 Page 3 of 9
Accused has compelled her to sleep with him and committed sexual intercourse
with her. She further deposed that accused committed sexual intercourse with
her by using force at Dol Bagan for 3 days. He did not allow her to return for
about 1 month and 18 days. Her residence is at a distance of about 2 miles
from the said place. Thereafter, on 11.11.2013, she managed to flee away and
returned home. Her parents did not visit there. Her brothers and some other
persons went to bring her but the accused did not allow her to go with them.
Thereafter, on returning home she informed the incident to her mother and on
this one police case was lodged. Police got her medically examined and also
recorded her statement in the court. Ext. 1 is her statement. Accused forced
her to perform marriage. In her cross examination, she denied that her father
went to the residence of Monglu for searching her but she refused to return.
She denied that at the time of incident, she was a student and aged about 18
years. She and Monglu clicked joint photo graph. She denied that she eloped

with the accused on her own.

9. PW 2 Sri Dipak Gowala, the father of the victim, in his evidence
deposed that due to non-returning of his daughter from school, he lodged the
FIR. At the time of occurrence, his daughter was aged about 14 years. After
about one and half months, police recovered her. He field the FIR on
26.03.2013. Ext. 2 is the FIR, which was written by the VDP Secretary.
However as the said FIR was not registered, he again submitted a court case.
Thereafter, his daughter flew away from the house of the accused and
informed him that accused took her to Dol Bagan and after keeping her there
for few days she was taken to Monglu's house. He proved the complaint as Ext.
3. In his cross examination, he stated that he lodged the FIR at Charaideo
Court on 29.11.2013. He denied that no investigation was made on Ext. 2.
During investigation, he stated before police that his daughter eloped with

Monglu. He denied that his daughter went on her own with Monglu.

10. PW 3 Smti Dipti Gogoi in her evidence deposed that in the year of
2013, victim '}' was missing from her school and after 3 days, she was found at

the residence of the accused. Thereafter a meeting was held but no decision
Spl. (P) Case No. 3/2014 Page 4 of 9
was taken. At the time of elopement, victim was a student of Class-|X and aged
about 14 years. On asking, victim stated that on her own she came out from
her house. After staying about 2 months in the residence of Monglu, she
returned home. In her cross examination, she deposed that father of the victim
stated that no resolution in the meeting was required as her daughter went on
her own. She stated the age of the victim by seeing the appearance of the
victim.

11. PW 4 Sri Radha Kandha Choudhuri in his evidence deposed that
on the matter of missing of the victim on 23.09.14, Dipak Gowala, the father of
the victim went to Mathurapur PS on 26.09.14 and lodged an FIR regarding
missing of the victim. The FIR was written by him. After searching for his
daughter about one week, Dipak Gowala got his daughter at Police Station. He
came to know that Monglu has taken the victim. The victim was a student of
class |X and aged about 14 years. Dipak did not tell him that the victim eloped
with Monglu.

12. PW 5 Dr. B.K. Bhuyan, the M.O. of this case in his evidence
deposed that on 06.12.2013 he examined the victim 'J' in connection with the
Mathurapur PS Case No. 132/13. The patient gave the brief history as alleged
sexual assault on 23.09.13 to 11.11.2013. Upon examination, he opined that
victim is not pregnant at the time of examination. He stated that she does not
have any sign of recent sexual intercourse at the time of examination. The M.O.
further opined that her age is above 18 years and below 25 years at the time of

examination. He proved his report as Ext. 4.

13. PW 6 Sri Prahalad Khudal in his evidence deposed that a meeting
was organized due to taking of victim 'J' by accused Monglu but people did not

gather in the meeting.

14. PW 7 Sri Jadu Gogoi, PW 8 Sri Paresh Khudal and PW 9 Sri Haresh
Rajput in their evidence deposed that they have no knowledge about the
incident of this case.

15. PW 10 Sri Tribhuban Saikia, the 1.0. of this case in his evidence
Spl. (P) Case No. 3/2014 Page 5 of 9
deposed that he has investigated Mathurapur PS Case No. 132/13. He also
prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence vide Ext. 5. He deposed
that he has not seized any school document to prove the age of the victim.
After completion of investigation, he submitted charge sheet against the
accused Monglu Rajput u/s 366/376 IPC vide Ext. 6. In his cross examination
he admitted that as per the medico legal report the age of the victim Is above

18 years.

16. Point No.1: From the materials on record, particularly from the
evidence of PW 1, PW 2 and PW 3, it appears that they have claimed the age of
the victim as 14 years and that victim was a student of Class-VIll at the
relevant time. In cross-examination the victim has admitted that she failed in
her school examination for twice. In support of the above evidence neither the
1.0. collected any school document nor the prosecution has produced any
relevant document of age. Defence has challenged the age of the victim. PW 5
the Medical Officer in his report (Exbt. 4) has opined that upon Radiological
examination of the victim he is of the opinion that victim is above the age of 18
years, but below the age of 25 years. This part of the evidence was led by
prosecution. As such from the prosecution evidence, it appears that there are
two sets of evidence on the age of the victim. Law is well settled that where
two views are possible, it will always goes in favour of the accused. In the
present case in hand, it appears that the victim was a school going student, but
prosecution has not made any attempt to override the medical opinion by
proving documentary evidence. As such, | have no option but to hold that at

the relevant time the victim was aged above 18 years.

17. Points No. Il, Ill & IV: On perusal of the evidence as narrated

 

above, it appears that while victim was returning from school she was taken by
one Smt. Manki Rajput, the elder sister of the accused and after her arrival at
the residence of the elder sister of the accused, said Manki Rajput left her. As
such, from this fact it appears that accused has no role in taking the victim to

Dolbagan to the residence of his sister at Dolbagan.

Spl. (P) Case No. 3/2014 Page 6 of 9
18. The subsequent part of evidence shows that therefrom accused
Mangle bring the victim to his house with an intention to perform marriage and
kept her for about 44 days. Admittedly, her paternal house is situated at a
distance of about two kilometer away from the house of the accused. Victim
denied defence suggestion that she went to the accused on her own. From the
cross examination of PW 2 it appears that he admitted before police that his
daughter victim ']' eloped with Manglu. Looking at the evidence of PW 3 it also
appears that after three days of the incident, the victim was found at the
residence of the accused and on this, a village meeting was convened but no
decision was taken in the said meeting. From the meeting, the victim went to
the house of the accused and after staying there for about two months she left
the house of the accused. PW 3 being the mother of the victim has also
admitted that, in the meeting the victim admitted that she on her own went to

the accused.

19. So from the above evidence, it is clear that the allegation of
forcefully taking away the victim by the accused and keeping her confined for
about 49 days was not supported by the parents of the victim; rather from the
evidence of PW 3, it appears that the victim is a consenting party while going to

the accused and staying with him at the residence of the accused.

20. So far the allegation of penetrative sexual assault is concerned,
from the evidence of the M.O. (PW 5), it appears that he has not detected any
Sign of recent sexual intercourse or marks of violence on the private parts of
the victim. The victim in her evidence though stated that accused has
committed sexual intercourse with her against her will and her further
Statement is that on returning home she informed the above matter to her
parents; but on looking at the evidence of PW 2 and PW 3, it appears that they
are totally silent so far physical relation between the accused and the victim is
concerned. Their evidence simply related to the alleged kidnap and wrongful
confinement of the victim only. As discussed above, from the evidence of PW 3
it appears that the victim on her own will went to the accused and stayed with

him and after about 44 days, she on her own returned to her paternal home.
Spl. (P) Case No. 3/2014 Page 7 of 9
Both PW 2 and PW 3 are silent regarding any forcible sexual intercourse or
even consensual intercourse between the accused and the victim during her
Stay with the accused. As such the evidence of PW 1, the victim alone appears
to be untrustworthy so far the allegation of forcible sexual intercourse with her,
wrongful confinement by the accused or forcefully taking of victim by the

accused is concerned.

21. Apart from above, in spite of knowing the fact that accused is with
the victim, no immediate FIR was filed. Though there was a statement that on
the same day an FIR was lodged, but police has not registered the case
appears to be insufficient explanation, particularly in view of the fact that the
victim has returned on 10.11.2013, but the complaint was lodged on
29.11.2013 only. This part of delay was never explained though as per the

victim, on her return, she has informed the matter to her parents.

22. From the above discussions, it appears that the prosecution story
as led by the prosecution witnesses is short of trustworthiness and not

believable to hold the accused guilty.

23: Considering all above, | am of the opinion that prosecution has
failed to prove the charges u/s 366/344 IPC, R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012
or any other minor offence against the accused Manglu Rajput @ Chetry. As
such, accused Manglu Rajput @ Chetry is acquitted from the charges u/s
366/344 IPC, R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and set at liberty forthwith.

24. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the matter is

not referred to DLSA for granting compensation u/s 357-A Cr.P.C.

25. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate, Sivasagar u/s
365 Cr.P.C.

26. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 7 day of

November 2017 at Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 3/2014 Page 8 of 9
Special J udge

Sivasagar
APPENDIX
1. Prosecution witnesses -
PW-1 :~ (Victim 'J')
PW-2  : _ Sri Dipak Gowalla (Informant)
PW-3 : Sri Dandi Gogoi
PW-4 : Sri Radha Kandha Choudhury
PW-5 : Dr. Bhupendra Kumar Bhuyan (M.O.)
PW-6 : Sri Prahlad Khodal
PW-7  :  Srijadu Gogoi
PW-8  : Sri Paresh Khodal
PW-9  : Sri Haresh Rajput
PW-10 : Sri Tribhuban Saikia (1.0.)
2. Defence witnesses - None
3. Court witnesses - None

4. Exhibits by prosecution -
Exbt.1 - Statement of the victim

Exbt.2 - FIR

Exbt.3 - Complaint in court.
Exbt.4 - Medical report.
Exbt.5 - Sketch map
Exbt.6 - Charge-Sheet

Special J udge,
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 3/2014 Page 9 of 9
