IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON ::: ASSAM.

Special (POCSO) Case No.-88/2017
U/S-8 of the POCSO Act.

State
- Versus -

Muzamil Hoque
: Accused person.

Present :
Shri P.P. Bairagi, AJS
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Mr. M.J. Neog, Ld. Special Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person : Mr. A. Rehman, Ld. Advocate.

Charge framed on : 11/04/2018.

Evidence recorded on : 13/06/2018, 11/10/2018,

20/12/2018, 19/08/2019.

Date of recording 313 Cr.P.C. statement : 04/01/2020.

Date of Argument : 24/02/2020.

Date of Judgment : 29/02/2020.

Contd...
UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution in brief is that the informant who
is the father of the victim filed First Information Report before the
Officer-in-Charge of Raha Police Station on 13/04/2015 stating inter alia
that on the previous night at around 1 a.m, accused Muzamil Hoque
entered into his house by opening a wooden window and kidnapped his
daughter victim 'X' (name withheld) by gagging her mouth to the
backside of his house. Thereafter, the accused tried to commit rape
upon her; but somehow she managed to escape. Hence, this case.

2. On receipt of the said First Information Report, Raha Police
Station Case No.-110/2015 was registered u/s-376(2-i)/511 of IPC, r/w
Section-8 of the POCSO Act. After investigation, Charge Sheet was filed
against accused Md. Muzamil Hoque u/s-457/376/511 of IPC, r/w
Section-8 of the POCSO Act showing him as absconder.

3. On appearance of accused Muzamil Hoque before the court
of learned Special Judge, Nagaon / Sessions Judge, Nagaon, copy was
furnished to him and he was charged u/s-8 of the POCSO Act. The
accused person pleaded not guilty when the charge was read over and
explained to him.

4. During the trial, the prosecution has examined altogether
5(five) witnesses including the informant as well as the victim of the
case and closed the evidence. The accused person was examined u/s-
313 Cr.P.C. who claimed innocence and adduced no evidence.

Contd...
5. | have heard learned counsels for both the sides and perused
the record.
6. Now the point for determination is as follows :-

Whether on 12/04/2015 at about 1 a.m. the accused

committed sexual assault on victim 'X' as alleged?

7. DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF
Now let me see the evidence on record.

 

8. PW-1 is the father of the victim who has deposed that the
incident was occurred 3(three) years ago. At that time, he was out of
his house. He was informed by his wife that the accused person came
to his house and tried to do some bad things with his daughter. On his
arrival to his house, the villagers also informed about it. So, he filed the
FIR. At the time of incident, his daughter was 13 years of age.

During his cross-examination, he has deposed that he is
unable to remember the date and year in which his daughter was born.
No age certificate was also annexed with the petition and he has no
idea what the FIR contained. On the basis of the information gathered
from neighbour, he came to know about the incident. The accused
used to come to his house. No statement was recorded by police
during investigation. He denied the suggestion that no offence was

committed.

9. PW-2 Samsul Hoque has deposed that the victim is his co-
villager. The incident was occurred 3(three) years ago. He got the

Contd...
4

information from the informant that the accused had love affairs with
the victim and the accused tried to take away the victim.

During his cross-examination, he has deposed that the
informant's house is situated at 1 Km away from his house. He has no
idea what relationship the accused had with the victim. No statement
of this witness was taken by the Investigating Officer.

10. PW-3 is the victim to the case. She deposed that the incident
was occurred near about 3(three) years ago at about 2 a.m. At that
time, she was sleeping in her room. Someone had entered into her
room. As such, she raised hue and cry and then the said person fled
away. Only on suspicion, she told about the name of accused Muzamil
Hoque as he used to come to her house. On the same night, her
mother and grandmother went to the house of the accused; but the
family members of the accused had refused the involvement of the
accused with the alleged offence. Police recorded her statement. Her
statement u/s-164 Cr.P.C. was also recorded by Magistrate. Ext.-1 is the
statement recorded u/s-164 Cr.P.C. whereon Ext.-1(1) and Ext.-1(2) are
her signatures.

During her cross-examination, she has deposed that she
could not identify the person who had entered into her room. The
person fled away when she raised voice. The accused is her neighbour
and before the incident accused did never give any obscene gesture to
her. Since she was inside the mosquito net, so she was unable to say
whether the intruder was an aged person or an young man. Her father
filed this case on suspicion who was absent at the time of incident.

11. PW-4 Rahimuddin has deposed that at the time of incident,
he was in his house. At about 1:30 a.m, the mother of the victim came

Contd...
5

to his house and informed him that the accused had taken away the
victim and he went to the house of the accused; but the family
members of the accused refused it.

During his cross-examination, he has deposed that he along
with VDP President Nurul Amin Hoque and two others went to the
house of the accused. He has not seen any broken door or window
during his visit in the house of the informant.

12. PW-5 Nurul Amin has deposed that he knew the accused and
the victim. Both of them are his co-villagers. On the day of incident at
about 11 /12 p.m. the wife of the informant came to his house and
intimated him that someone had taken away her daughter. He went to
the house of the informant and saw the victim in their house. On being
asked, the victim has reported that one man came and lifted her. But
she was unable to identify that person.

13. From the evidence of PW-3 who is the victim as well as star
witness of the prosecution case, it is noticed that while she was
sleeping, someone entered into her room. As she raised hue and cry,
then that person fled away and out of suspicion she told about the
name of Muzamil Hoque who used to come to her house. From cross-
examination also, it can be said that she could not identify the person
who had entered into her room. She then unable to see whether that
person was young or elderly person. From the evidence, it is seen that
she has not implicated the accused persons with the alleged offence.
Only out of suspicion, she told about the name of the accused that the
accused was involved. This witness was unable to identify the person.
Therefore, it can be said that the evidence of this witness is insufficient
to held guilty to the accused person. PW-1 being the father of the
victim has deposed that his wife informed him that the accused

Contd...
6

came to his house and tried to do some bad things. From his cross-
examination, it can be said that he had not seen the incident. Only on
the basis of information received from the neighbours, he said about
the involvement of the accused person. So, it can be said that he has
also deposed what the neighbours told to him. So, his evidence can be
said as hearsay evidence. The evidence of PW-2 also scrutinized; but
his evidence also insufficient to hold guilty to the accused person. From
the evidence of PW-4 and PW-5, it can be said that they have not seen
the incident what was actually happened. They were reported by the
wife of the informant; but the said lady i.e. the wife of the informant
was not examined by the prosecution. From the evidence on record, it
can be said that the victim has failed to identify the person who was
involved with the offence as alleged. That apart, there is no eye-
witness before the court to understand that the accused has
committed the offence as alleged. Thus, the evidence of the
prosecution is insufficient to convict the accused person and on the
basis of the evidence, the accused cannot be convicted and the
accused has able to rebut the presumption about his involvement with
the offence. Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

14. Bail bond of the accused person will be automatically
cancelled after expiry of 6(six) months if no appeal is preferred.

15. This Special (POCSO) Case is disposed of accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of
this court on this 29 day of February,
2020 at Nagaon.

Dictated & corrected by me.
Special Judge, Nagaon.
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
APPENDIX :-

Oral evidence :-

PW-1
PW-2
PW-3
PW-4
PW-5

Father of the victim (name withheld).
Md. Samsul Hoque.

Victim 'X' (name withheld).

Md. Rahim Uddin.

Md. Nurul Amin @ Bulbul.

Documentary evidence :-

Ext.-1

Statement of the victim recorded by Magistrate u/s-164
GARG.

Defence side did not adduce any evidence.

Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
