 

ial (P se No. 16/201
U/S — 341/323/376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 & 6 of POCSO Act

State of Assam
- Versus -

Dilwar Hussain lh eeeeee Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee, AJS,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

A rance an iculars :-
For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person :- Sri K.U. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.

Date of recording evidence :- 13.09.2019.
Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC :- 21.09.2019.
Date of Argument s- 21.09.2019.
Date of Judgment :- 21.09.2019.
JUDGMENT

The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 25.03.2019
the informant Sri Milan Sen Tripura lodged an ejahar with the O/c,
Ramnathpur Police Station alleging that on 24.03.2019 at about 10.30 AM
while his minor daughter, the victim was returning home from Garmurah
Bazar after attending her private tuition, on the way (near Choraibak
Railway), the accused person Dilwar Hussain appeared there and forcefully
dragged the victim to the nearby wood and committed rape on her and
made her senseless and after regaining sense, somehow the victim went to

the house and narrated the incident to them.

Contd......P/2.
opm

3

»® p>

nee

ial (P ase No. 16/2019.
«2s

2. On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as
Ramnathpur Police Station Case No. 29/2019 under Sec. 341/323/376 of the
IPC read with Sec. 4/6 of the POCSO Act and accordingly, police started
investigation of the case. During investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, drew up rough sketch map thereof, recorded statements of
witnesses, got the victim medically examined and also got her statement
recorded by the Magistrate and after completion of investigation having been
found prima facie case laid the charge sheet against the accused person
Dilwar Hussain under Sec. 341/323/376, IPC read with Sec. 4/6 of the
POCSO Act,2012.

3. On appearance of accused person, copies of relevant

materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to him.

4. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record, having
found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person has
committed the offence, the formal charges have been framed against the
accused person Dilwar Hussain under Sec. 341/323/376/ of the IPC read
with Sec. 4 & 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. The charges so framed were read
over and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined the
victim and her father, the informant. The accused person has been
examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has denied the allegations
levelled against him by the prosecution. The defence did not adduce any

evidence.
6. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.
7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused person on 24.03.2019 at
about 10.30 AM at village Charaibak under Ramnathpur PS wrongfully

Contd......P/3.
ecial (P O se No. 16/2019.
«-9-

restrained the victim, the minor daughter of the informant, and thereby the

accused has committed the offence punishable under sec. 341, IPC?

(ii) Whether the accused person after restraining the
victim, voluntarily caused hurt to her and thereby the accused has

committed the offence punishable under Sec. 323, IPC?

(iii) Whether the accused person committed rape on
the victim and thereby, the accused has committed the offence punishable
under Sec. 376, IPC?

(iv)Whether the accused person committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim and thereby, the accused has
committed the offence punishable under Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012?

(v)Whether the accused person committed aggravated
sexual assault on the victim and thereby, the accused has committed the
offence punishable under Sec. 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, REASONS AND DECISION THEREOF :-

8. In the instant case, the victim is aged 11 years and as
such, to ascertain her understanding ability, some question were put to her
and accordingly, she gave rational answers very confidently and thereafter,
her evidence was recorded. In her evidence, the victim (PW.1) has stated
that on 24.3.2019 while she was returning home from tuition at Garmurah,
on the way, one person gagged her mouth and forcefully took her inside
nearby jungle and committed rape on her. It is also her evidence that she
could not recognize the person as he was wearing mask in his face and her
father lodged the case. It is further stated by the victim that during
investigation, police got her medically examined and her statement was
recorded by the Magistrate vide Ext. 1.

In cross examination, the victim has deposed that the
contents of the FIR were not read over to her and she made her statement
before the Magistrate likewise as instructed by her father.  Contd......P/4.
ial (P . 16/201

9. The PW. 2, the informant Sri Milan Sen Tripura has
deposed that on 24.03.2019 at about 11 AM his daughter i.e. the victim
returned home from her tuition and then, the victim reported him that
someone committed bad acts on her but she could not recognize the person
as his face was covered by black cloth and thereafter, when the informant
came to know from the villagers that the relevant time, the accused Dilwar
was proceeding through the same route near the place of occurrence, on
suspect he made him accused in the FIR, Ext. 2.

In cross examination, the informant has stated that his

daughter could not recognize the person and on suspect, he mentioned the
name of the accused in the FIR.
10. In the instant case, the most important witness is the
victim and the fate of the entire case rests upon her evidence. The evidence
of the victim discloses that at the relevant time she was going to her house
after attending tuition at Garmurah and on the way, one person gagged her
mouth and forcefully took her to the nearby jungle and committed rape on
her but she could not recognize the said person as he was wearing a mask in
his face. In her cross examination, the victim has stated that the contents of
the FIR were not read over to her and she made her statement before the
Magistrate likewise as instructed by her father. Since the victim herself could
not identify the miscreant who committed rape on her and the father of the
victim lodged the FIR merely on suspect against the accused and also taking
into consideration the fact that the victim made her statement before
Magistrate on being influenced by her father, in my considered opinion, it
would not be wise to entangle the accused in the commission of the crime
alleged.

11. In view of above discussion, it is held that the
prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused person in any
manner and hence, the accused person Dilwar Hussain is acquitted of the
offence under Sec. 341/323/376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 & 6 of the
POCSO Act. Set him at liberty forthwith. Contd......P/5.
ial (P e No. 2019.

= iw

iz. The bail bond of the accused person stands
discharged.

13. The Special (POCSO) case is disposed of accordingly.

The Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the
open Court under the seal of this Court and on my signature on this 21st day

of September, 2019.
oA \ ;
wt
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

SPECIAL JUDGB
HAILAKAN DI

Di ion i ken and _ transcri Baharul Islam Choudh
nographer Grade I.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 16/2019.

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, the Victim &

PW. 2, Milan Sen Tripura.

Documentary evidences :-

Ext. 1- Statement of the victim under Sec. 164, CrPC. &

Ext. 2- FIR.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

Special Judge, Hailakandi.
SPECIAL JUDGB

HAILAKANDI
