IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 99/2018
U/S 4 of POCSO Act

PRESENT : = Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi, AJS,
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:- 03.06.2019

State of Assam

= Vs mi
Narahari Das.......... Accused
Date of Recording Evidence on — 06.01.2020 & 04.02.2020
Date of Hearing Argument on -— 04.02.2020

Date of Delivering the Judgment on-— 04.02.2020

Appearance :
Advocate for the State------------------ Learned Addl. PP.
Advocate for the Accused-------------- Deepjit Pathak, Learned Advocate
JUDGMENT
1. The brief fact, of the prosecution case, is that on 26.05.2017 one Sindu Ram Das

lodge an FIR in Barpeta P.S. alleging inter alia that on 23.04.2017 at about 10 pm his minor
daughter (X) age about 13 years was kidnapped by accused named in the FIR in Maruti Car
while she was proceeding to the house of her aunt and committed sexual assault on her.

Hence the case.

2. Based on the information a case was registered being Barpeta P.S. case No 937/17
u/s 365/34 IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act and investigated the case.

3. During the course of investigation, police recorded the statement of the witnesses,
drew sketch map, sent the victim for medical examination, forwarded him to court for

recording his statement before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and arrested the accused person.

4. Thereafter, on conclusion of investigation, I/O finally laid the charge sheet against
2

accused Narahari Das u/s 365 IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act with a view to stand trial.

5. During the course of time, when accused appeared in court after due compliance
of section 207 Cr.P.C. this court vide order dated 03.06.2019 framed formal charge u/s 4 of
POCSO Act. The particulars of the offence on being read over and explained, accused

pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

6. During the course of trial, the prosecution examined as 4 witnesses inclusinve of
the informant and alleged victim namely Sindhuram Das as PW-1, Durga Das as PW-2,
Binita Das as PW-3, Pompi Das as PW-4 respectively. However, considering the nature and
quality of the evidence emerged in the mouth of prosecution witnesses giving an

opportunity of hearing to learned additional PP further prosecution evidence stands closed.

7. Examination of accused u/s 313 CrP.C. is dispense with in view of lack of
implicating materials. His plea is total denial of the prosecution case. As such, on being

asked accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

8. Now point for determination ;-

1. Whether on 24.05.2017 you committed penetrating sexual assault on the

victim girl (X real name withheld) as alleged ?

9. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-
I have heard the learned lawyers appearing for both sides and also carefully

scanned the entire prosecution evidence on record.

10. On perusal of the evidence of PW-1 who is the informant it appears that about 3
years back accused Narahari Das took his daughter to his residence but on the next day
mother of Narahari Das return his daughter. So, he filed the case feeling loss of his
reputation. On perusal of his evidence it appears that his evidence bears little significants
for the prosecution case as he did not state anything that accused committed any

penetrating sexual assault against his daughter.

11. On the other hand, PW-2 who is the alleged victim stated that while she was

reading in Class VII and standing on the road accused took her away in a car and kept her
in the house of his maternal aunt. But on the next day she was returned to her parents by
personal of child line office. She stated that during investigation police recorded her
statement, produce her before Magistrate but now she stated that she married with
another boy and living with him as husband and wife procuring a child. In her cross
examination she stated that she has love affairs with the accused. So, she all together

negated the prosecution case even though she happens to be the alleged victim.

12. PW-3 Binita Das is also a hearsay witness. According to whom the girl eloped with
Narahari as a result of her affairs with him. But now she has been married with another
boy and living as husband and wife. So, the evidence of PW-3 also carries little evidentary

value.

13. PW-4 Pompy Das also depose evidence in the same vein with that of the evidence
of PW-3 as she also failed to adduce any such evidence which attracts the ingredients of
the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

14. Therefore, after scrutiny, this court comes to a definite findings that on the basis of
the uncorroborated testimony of the prosecution witnesses accused person cannot be
convicted u/s 4 of POCSO Act. Though the allegation against the accused is serious in
nature, but on the basis of mere assumptions and presumptions and surmises no
conviction can be sustain unless prosecution has been able to produce evidence worthy of

credence.

15. This being the position, this court is of the considered view that prosecution
miserably failed to establish the case against accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act. Therefore, this
court has no option but to acquit the accused from the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act on the

ground of insufficient evidence and set him at liberty forthwith.

16. The terms of bail bond of accused person is extended for a period of 6 (six)
months from to-day as provided u/s 437(A) Cr.P.C.

17. Let a copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District Magistrate,
Barpeta as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.

18. Let the case record be consigned to record room after completing the formalities.
4

19. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 4th day of February 2020, at

Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me

Sd/- Sd/-
(Sri C.B. Gogoi) (Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Special Judge,

Barpeta. Barpeta.
APPENDIX

1. The prosecution has examined the following 4 nos. of witnesses: -

PW-1 = Sindhu Ram Das, the informant.
PW-2 = Durga Das.
PW-3 =  Binita Das.
PW-4 = Pompy Das
2. The prosecution has exhibited the following documents :-
Ext. 1 = is the FIR.
Ext.1(1) = __ is the signatures of informant.
Ext. 2 = is statement of victim before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext.2(1) & 2(2) = are the signatures of the victim girl.

Sd/-
(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge,
Barpeta.
