IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE :: :: SIVASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions J udge cum Special J udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 29 of 2014 U/ S 8 of POCSO Act
(Arising out of Nazira P.S. Case No.219/2014)

State of Assam

«\V/5-
Sri Ghana Khanikar ...........0008 Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Sri A. K. Bora, PP, Sivasagar.
For the accused Sri D.K. Gohain, Advocate
(State defence counsel)

Date of framing charge 15.05.2015
Dates of evidence 22.06.2016, 16.08.2016, 05.11.2016,

05.04.2017.
Date of S/D 19.04.2017
Date of argument 19.04.2017
Date of J udgment 20.04.2017

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 24.10.2014, one Sri Paban

Khanikar lodged an FIR with O/C, Nazira P.S. alleging, inter alia, that on
18.10.2014, accused Sri Ghana Khanikar alias Naga has taken away the minor
daughter of the informant, i.e. victim 'M' (name withheld), aged about seven
years being the grand-father in relation and by taking her in a Mandir near
Nazira Station, accused committed misdeed with her. Accused also gave bite
injuries on her cheeks and face and caused scratch marks, but victim did not
inform the matter immediately to them. After two days of this occurrence, one
elderly lady finding this scratch marks on her face asked her about the incident

and on this victim has disclosed the matter. As such, there was delay in filing

Spl. (P) Case No. 29/2014 Page 1 of 9
the FIR.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Nazira P.S. Case No. 219/2014, U/S 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and investigated into the case. During
investigation, 1.0. visited the place of occurrence, prepared sketch map of the
place of occurrence and recorded the statement of the witnesses. During
investigation, victim was medically examined and recorded her statement in
the court U/S 164 Cr.P.C. On completion of investigation, 1.0. has submitted
Charge-Sheet U/S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 against accused Ghana Khanikar.

3. After furnishing copy to the accused person, vide order dated
15.05.2015, my learned predecessor in office has framed the charge U/S 8 of
POCSO Act, 2012 against accused Ghana Khanikar to which he pleaded not
guilty. During trial, prosecution side has examined seven witnesses including

the M.O. and 1.0. Defence cross-examined the said P.Ws.

4, Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused is
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial and false implication.
Accused declined to adduce evidence when he is called upon to enter into

defence.

Di. | have heard argument of learned P.P. Mr. A.K. Bora and Mr. D.K.
Gohain, learned State defence counsel and gone through the evidence and
documents. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINT FOR DETERMINATION :
6. (i) Whether on 18.10.2014 accused committed sexual assault on the
victim?
DECI SION AND REASONS THEREOF :
7. PW 1 the victim, in her evidence deposed that she was a student
of Class-II1 and aged about 8 (eight) years. Accused is known to her who took
her away to a nearby Namghar and bit on her cheeks and also put his hand on
her breast. She requested to let off her but accused kept her for the night in

the Namghar and on the next day accused took her back to his house. After

Spl. (P) Case No. 29/2014 Page 2 of 9
returning home, she informed the matter to nearby Dhandai. Her father also
inquired her regarding scratch mark on her cheeks. She also gave her
Statement in court vide Exbt. 1. In her cross she stated that prior to this
occurrence, she used to go with the accused. Police recorded her statement in
the Police Station. She gave her statement in court as tutored by her father
and police. She denied that before doctor she has not stated regarding biting
on her cheeks. She admitted that her father has some strain/hostile

relationship with the accused.

8. PW 2 Sri Paban Khanikar, the informant in his evidence deposed
that accused is his family member and the victim 'M' is his step-daughter. On
the day of incident, non-finding the victim in the house, on query, his wife told
him that the victim 'M' was taken by the accused and on the next day accused
brought her back to their house. The victim disclosed before the nearby people
that accused bites on her cheeks. On his inquiry, the victim told him that
accused has committed misdeed with her. On this, he lodged the FIR vide Exbt.
2. In his cross PW 2 deposed that the FIR was written on the dictation of some
other persons. He cannot say about the contents of the FIR. He denied the
defence suggestion that as the victim used to go with the accused, he has filed

this false case.

9. PW 3 Dr. Sanjib Mahanta in his evidence deposed that on
25.10.2014, on police requisition he examined the victim 'M' in connection with
Nazira P.S. Case No. 219/2014 and found that breast not developed, there is
no mark of violence on her body, hymen present and on examination of the
victim he is of the opinion that the age of the victim was below 16 years and
there was no evidence of injury or sign of recent sexual intercourse. He proved

his report as Exbt.3.

10. PW 4 Sri Dilip Gogoi in his evidence deposed that accused is the
grand-father of the victim 'M' and at the time of incident victim was aged
about 8 (eight) years. On the night of incident, the accused kept the victim

with him in the Namghar. Accused was a Namghoria and on the next day

Spl. (P) Case No. 29/2014 Page 3 of 9
father of the victim told him that accused has committed misdeed with the
victim 'M' at Namghar and the victim Is ill. On going there, he saw scratch
marks on the cheeks of the victim. Accordingly, on his advice, victim was taken
to Ligiripukhuri Hospital, Nazira and on asking, victim told him that accused
has committed misdeed with her twice. In his cross examination, PW 4 denied
defence suggestion that the evidence given in examination-in-chief were not
Stated before police. He denied that to remove the accused from the post of

Namghoria, they have concocted this false case.

11. PW 5 Sri Dipen Gogoi in his evidence deposed that he heard
regarding committing misdeed on the victim by the accused. In his cross he
admitted that he has seen some quarrel between the mother of the PW 4 Dilip
Gogoi and the accused and on seeing this, he informed the matter to police
and police took the accused to the Police Station. He did not inquire the matter

from the victim.

12. PW 6 Sri Horen Gogoi in his evidence deposed that on the date of
incident father of the victim informed him that the accused by taking the
victim to Namghar, has committed misdeed with her. He has seen the scratch
marks on her face. In his cross, he admitted that blood comes out from the
injuries of the victim 'M'. The victim was examined by Doctor. He has also
heard regarding quarrel between the mother of PW 4 Dilip Gogoi and the
accused and on arrival of police, they have handed over the accused to police.
He denied that to remove the accused from the post of Namghoria they have

concocted this case.

13. PW 7 Sri Biren Dutta, the |.0. of this case in his evidence deposed
that during investigation of Nazira PS case No. 219/14 he went to the place of
occurrence i.e. Hari Mandir near Nazira and drawn a sketch map of the PO.
Exbt. 4 is the said sketch map. Victim was sent for medical examination and
also in Court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. He has also collected
the medical examination report and statement of the victim given in Court.

Accused was arrested and forwarded to court. On completion of investigation

Spl. (P) Case No. 29/2014 Page 4 of 9
he has submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 8 of Pocso Act. Exbt. 5
is the charge sheet. In his cross by defence, PW 7 stated that incident occurred
on 18.10.2014 and FIR was received on 24.10.2014. As the victim did not
disclose the matter of harassment on the same day, there was delay in FIR.
Victim was sent for medical examination only on 27.10.2014. He has not
mentioned the cause of delay in sending the victim for medical examination.
During investigation, he found that victim was the grand-daughter of the
accused through his daughter. Witness Dilip Gogoi in his statement did not
state before him that victim has told him that accused has committed misdeed
twice and that he has seen injury marks on the neck and cheek of the victim.

He denied that he has not investigated the case properly.

14. During argument hearing, learned Advocate for the accused Mr.
D. K. Gohain by pointing out several discrepancies in the evidence and the cross
examination part of the witnesses, has submitted that this is a false case and
just to frame the accused, colour of sexual assault upon the victim was given. It
was submitted that the FIR shows that after two days of the occurrence the
victim 'X' has disclosed the incident to one neighbouring lady who was not
examined by police or by prosecution during trial and after five days of the
incident, the father of the victim lodged the FIR. The delay as explained is not
at all satisfactory. It is also argued that from the evidence of P.W. 5 it appears
that on the next day of the incident the informant has informed the matter to
him and this part of evidence was corroborated by P.W. 4, as such the
Statement in the FIR which was given is nothing but an eyewash to cover the
delay. Learned State defence counsel further argued that from the cross
examination of P.W. 5 and P.W. 6 and as stated by accused in his 313 Cr.P.C.
Statement, the real fact is that on the date of occurrence there was a quarrel
between the mother of P.W. 4 Dilip Gogoi and the accused and P.W. 5 has
informed this matter to police and accordingly police came there and took the
accused with them. Learned defence counsel has further pointed out that in her
cross examination, the victim has admitted that she deposed her evidence on

being tutored by her father. As such, the cumulative effect of the admission of
Spl. (P) Case No. 29/2014 Page 5 of 9
the victim ‘and the evidence of P.W. 5 and P.W. 6 and the statement of the
accused given U/S 313 Cr.P.C. clearly indicates that it is nothing but a false and
concocted case. Learned PP in his argument, however submitted that statement
of the victim is found reliable and court should hold the accused guilty for the
offence punishable under the provisions of POCSO Act. | have considered the

submission of both the sides.

15. On going through the FIR, it appears that immediately after the
occurrence, the accused has brought back the victim to the house of the
informant and she disclosed the matter after two days. FIR also discloses that
on seeing the scratch marks on her cheeks, one elderly lady has pointed out
the same to the victim and only on this, the victim has reported the
commission of misdeed by the accused with her. But admittedly said lady was
not examined as witness. The victim in her evidence in court has deposed that
soon after returning to her house, she has informed the matter to the
neighbouring Dhandai and her father has asked her about the scratch marks.
There was nothing in the evidence that the neighbouring lady has pointed out
the scratch marks. Though in her evidence, the victim and the other witnesses
has said to have seen the scratch marks, but on going through the medical
report of the victim it appears that the Doctor (PW 3) has not found any injury
mark on the body of the victim. Thus, it creates a doubt on the existence of

the scratch marks on the cheeks of the victim.

16. PW 2 in his evidence deposed that victim has reported about
commission of misdeed by the accused, but the victim in her evidence has not
stated that she informed the matter to her father. Evidence of PW 4 shows that
on the very next day of the incident the informant has informed him about the
incident by the accused and on this, he went to the house of the informant,
seen the victim with ailment and advised for taking her to hospital and
accordingly she was taken to hospital. But case record shows that the victim
was taken to hospital only after filing of the FIR i.e. after five days of this

incident. The father of the victim and the victim herself are silent on the point

Spl. (P) Case No. 29/2014 Page 6 of 9
of her ailment, taking treatment and the advice of PW 4 Sri Dilip Gogoi. PW 5
and PW 6 are hearsay witnesses. From the cross examination of the victim (PW
1), it appears that she gave her statement in court on being dictated by her
father and police and that her father has strain relationship with the accused.
PW 2 has admitted that the contents of the Exbt. 2 is written on being dictated
by others. Cross of PW - 4 shows that he has exaggerated the vital part of his
evidence, i.e. seeing injury mark on the body of the victim and that coming to
know about commission of misdeed from the victim. All these aspects show that

evidence of PW 1, PW 2 and PW 4 are not reliable and trustworthy.

17. If we look at the cross examination of PW 5 and PW 6, it appears
a different story. According to them there was a quarrel between the mother
of PW 4 Sri Dilip Gogoi and the accused and on this police came there and
took the accused. The accused in his 313 Cr.P.C. statement also stated that he
has restrained the mother of Sri Dilip Gogoi (PW 4) to utilize the victim as
labour and to resist her to go to school and compelled her to keep the infant
child in their house and on this, he was handed over to police. This part of the
Statement of the accused given u/s 313 Cr.P.C. gets corroboration from the
cross examination of PW 5 and PW 6. It may be mentioned here that the
victim is the granddaughter of the accused through his daughter and the

informant is the step father.

18. From the combine reading of the materials on record, | am of the
considered opinion that prosecution has totally failed to prove the ingredients
of offence u/s 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 or any other minor offence against the
accused beyond reasonable doubt. The prosecution story as projected does
not inspire any confidence and the presumption u/s 29 of Pocso Act stands
rebutted.

19. Considering all above, | am of the opinion that prosecution has
totally failed to prove the ingredients of offence u/s 8 of POCSO Act against
the accused beyond reasonable doubt. As such, accused Ghana Khanikar Is
acquitted from the charge u/s 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 on benefit of doubt and

Spl. (P) Case No. 29/2014 Page 7 of 9
Set at liberty forthwith.

20. Issue release order to the Jail Supdt. of District Jail, Sivasagar
accordingly.

21. As the accused was in Jail custody, no order is passed u/s 437 A
Cr.P.C.

22. Learned State defence counsel is entitled for his professional fees
as per rules.

23. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate, Sivasagar
u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

24. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of

on contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 20 day of April,
2017 at Sivasagar.

Special J udge
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 29/2014 Page 8 of 9
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses :
P.W.1- (Victim 'M')
P.W.2- Sri Paban Khanikar (informant)
P.W.3- Dr. Sanjib Mahanta (M.O.)
P.W.4- = Sri Dilip Gogol
P.W.5- Sri Dipen Gogoi
P.W.6- Sri Horen Gogoi
P.W.7- Sri Biren Dutta (1.0.)

2. Defence witnesses - Nil.

3. Court witnesses - Nil.

4. Exhibits by prosecution -
Exbt.1 - Statement of the victim given u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Exbt.1- FIR
Exbt.3 - Medical examination report.
Exbt.4 - Sketch map.
Exbt.5 - Charge-Sheet

Special J udge
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 29/2014 Page 9 of 9
