gs
aa

+3

acral tudge.

ov naigs0n.

IN "THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE :::::: BONGAIGAON

Special (P) Case No. 19(BGN)/2017.

U/S 6 of POCSO Acct.
(Arising out of Bongaigaon P.S. case No. 680 of 2017)

State of Assam
Vs.
Md Bahadur Ali ........ Accused.

PRESENT :- Smti. I. Barman,
Special Judge (under POCSO Act),
Bongaigaon.

Appearance :-.

For the State : Smti R. Choudhury, Special Public
Prosecutor.

For the accused : Sri S.Kr. Sarkar, Advocate.

Date of Argument : 04.08.2018.
Date of Judgment : 10.08.2018.

JUDGMENT AND ORDER
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant
(PW 1) through her deceased husband gave birth of four children
including the victim (PW 2). Later on, she married with accused
Bahadur Ali and since then she alongwith her victim daughter aged about
16 years used to reside with her accused husband. It is stated that about
one and half months back of the incident, she with her victim daughter
and the accused husband used to reside in the house of Abul Kalam on
Contd....
K.

VES

“\ 8
i i686,

tail 4 an oD.

(2)

rent at Bhowlaguri. During that period, on 10.9.2017 she keeping her
victim daughter with the accused went to her parental house at Geda
bazar for her treatment and taking advantage of her absence, on
13.9.2017 at night accused Bahadur Ali committed rape to her victim
daughter.

2. FIR on the incident was lodged on 18.01.2016 by
PW 1, the mother of the victim before the Incharge, North Bongaigaon
Patrol Post.

3. On receipt of the FIR, the Incharge, North
Bongaigaon Patrol Post forwarded the same to the O/C, Bongaigaon
Police Station for registering a case. Accordingly, the O/C, Bongaigaon
Police Station registered a case being Bongaigaon Police Station Case
No. 680/17 under section 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted A.S.I. Siba
Prasad Kalita to investigate the case. Accordingly, the Investigating
Officer visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the
witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got recorded her
statement U/S 164 CrPC, arrested the accused and on completion of
investigation, laid charge-sheet against the accused Bahadur Ali under

section 4 of POCSO Act.

4, On perusing police report and hearing both sides,
having find a prima facie case, charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act was framed
against the accused. The accused pleaded innocence when charge was

read over and explained to him and claimed for trial.

Point for determination
Whether on 13.09.2017 at night, accused Bahadur

Contd....
i.
Sa .
w,
oN

}

<a
Saecie! '> Seas

2 ew

{ON Boag vDe

i
y
”

(3)
Ali being the step father, committed aggravated

penetrative sexual assault on the child victim under

the age of 18 who resided in the same house with the
accused.
5. In this case, to bring home the charge against the

accused, prosecution has examined as many as 10 (ten) witnesses while

defence examined none.

6. Statement of the accused was recorded U/S 313

Cr.P.C in which, he denied all the allegations levelled against him.

7. I have heard argument advanced by the learned

counsel of both sides.

Discussion, decision and reasons there of:-

8. In order to appreciate the argument advanced on
behalf of both sides, it is considered next to outline a sketch of the

evidence on record.

9. PW 1 is the informant as well as mother of the
victim. She deposed that at the time of incident she alongwith her
accused husband and victim daughter born through her deceased husband ,
used to reside at Bhowlaguri in rented house of Abdul Kalam. She stated
that prior to 3 days of alleged incident, she went to her parental house for
her illness and then on being called by the victim when she returned
home, her landlord Abdul Kalam questioned her as to why she left her
victim daughter at home and also reported that accused Bahadur Ali had
Contd.....
(4)
committed wrong upon her daughter. But the victim told her that she had
been suffering from fever and the accused gave her some tablet after
consuming which, she fell sleep and knew nothing. Then on suspicion,

she filed the case on the pressure of villagers.

10. PW 2 is the victim. She deposed that at the time of
incident due to ailment, her mother went to her parental house for
treatment and after 2 days of leaving her with the accused, she also fell
ill. Then accused Bahadur Ali gave her two tablets for recovery.
Accordingly she consumed the tablets and fell asleep but when she
awakened, she had found her ‘frock’ raising upto to the waist. Then she
reported the incident to the land lady and after one day when her mother
came, she reported her also. Then on suspicion, her mother filed the
case. She stated that on the day of incident she alone was with the
accused at home. During cross she stated that the accused did no wrong

to her and as tutored, she gave her statement before the Magistrate.

11. PW 3 Abdul Kalam in whose house the informant
alongwith the accused and her victim daughter were resided on rent
testified that the informant often used to reside outside and in those days
the victim had to stay with her step father accused Bahadur Ali alone.
Hence on suspicion, he informed the VDP secretary and on being asked
in presence of himself, VDP secretary, Gaonbura and other villagers, the
victim told that accused Bahadur Ali feeding her some sex tablet did
have sexual intercourse with her and the accused also admitted his guilt.
Accordingly, on being informed, police arrested the accused. During
cross he stated that he had not seen the incident.
Contd....
c

Special Sadgs,
Boa gates OMe ,

(5)
12. PW 4 Abdul Majid, the VDP secretary deposed that
in most of the days, mother of the victim used to reside outside and hence
often her victim daughter had to reside with her Step father the accused
person. Then the owner of the house suspected that some wrong was
committed by the accused to the victim. Hence the villagers enquired the
victim to which she replied that when she had been suffering from fever,
the accused Bahadur Ali gave her some intoxicated tablet and then
committed her rape and the same was admitted by accused Bahadur Ali.
During cross he denied the suggestion that the fact of committing rape
was neither told by the victim nor admitted by the accused before

villagers.

13. PW 5 Rafique Seikh deposed that Abdul Mazid and
Kalam, the owner of the house, where the accused with his wife resided
on rent, told him and Musaraf that at night the accused Bahadur Ali
committed rape on the victim. Then on being asked by them, the victim
admitted that accused by administering the victim some tablet, raped her
which was admitted by accused Bahadur Ali himself before them. Then

they handed over the accused to police.

14. PW 6 Musaraf Hussain categorically deposed that
Kalam told them that accused committed rape on the victim and then on
being enquired the accused, he admitted his guilt. He further deposed
that the victim also narrated that the accused feeding her some tablets,
raped her. During cross he stated that he did not remember the date of

incident.

Contd...
i

it 5
¥ ee
K . ~

od

aw 4
—ostay Tadges

wae :TAOD, i

(6)
15. PW 7 Dr. Priyanka Ray, the medical officer deposed
that on 16.9.17 she examined the victim and found hymen intact and
admits one finger and urine test for pregnancy gave negative result. She
found no injury on the body of the victim. She stated that as per X-ray of
long bones, her age is above 16 years and below 19 years. She proved
the medical examination report as Ext 1, advice slip as Ext 2, urine for
pregnancy test as Ext 3 and age determination test as Ext 4. During cross
examination PW 7 stated that as per X-ray report the victim may be more

than 18 years but below 19 years.

16. PW 8 Dr Ranjit Kr Pradhan, the radiologist deposed
that he examined the victim on 17.9.2017 and as per radiological report
the age of the victim is above 16 years and below 19 years. He proved
the radiological report as Ext 4, During cross examination he stated that

the age of the victim may be above 18 years and below 19 years.

17. PW 9 Rahmat Ali, testified that a person of
Bhowlaguri told him that the accused who resided earlier in his (PW 9)
village, raped the victim. Regarding the incident police seized the school
certificate of the victim vide Ext 5 wherein Ext 9(1) is his signature. He
proved the school certificate as M.Ext 1. During cross he stated that

neither he asked the victim nor her mother about the incident.

18. PW 10, A.S.I Siba Prasad Kalita, the investigating
officer deposed that on 15.9.2017 on receipt of an FIR from the
informant, the Incharge made the GDE No. 346 dated 15.09.2017 and
after registering the case by the O/C, Bongaigaon Police Station, he was
entrusted to investigate the case. Accordingly, he recorded the statement

Contd....
i
;

}

4
i

ONY

ha

Nt

geo Sunt y
e- stad "nr dge,

be

20 d

(7)
of the victim alongwith the informant and other witnesses, seized the
school certificate of the victim vide Ext 5, visited the place of
Occurrence, prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence, vide Ext
7, sent the victim for medical examination, got recorded her statement
U/S 164 CrPC, arrested the accused and submitted charge sheet against
accused Bahadur Ali under section 4 of POCSO Act vide Ext 9. He also
proved the FIR as Ext 8, the extract copy of General Diary Entry no. 346
dated 15.9.2017 as Ext 6 and statement of the victim U/S 164 CrPC as
Ext 10. During cross he stated that the alleged incident occurred on
13.9.2017 and the FIR was lodged on 15.9.2017 without explaining the
reason of delay. He confirmed that PW 9 Rahmat Ali did not tell him
that the villagers had not reported him that accused had committed rape

on the victim.

19. In this case, regarding age, the Investigating Officer
(PW 10) seized a L.P school certificate (M.Ext 1) of the victim issued on
22.6.2015 as per which her date of birth is 2.2.2005. SO as per school
certificate on the day of the incident i.e on 13.7.2017, she was 12 years 7
months 11 days old. But the victim and her mother themselves claimed
victim's age as 16 years at the time of the incident, On the other hand as
per medical report (Ext 1), her dentition is 14/14 and she was asbove 16
years and below 19 years. However defence did not dispute the age of

the victim.

20. In the above let us see the evidence of the most

material witness the victim herself. She as PW 2 stated that when her

ailing mother went to her grand father’s house for treatment, she fell ill
Contd...
(8)
and then the accused her Step father gave her two tablets for recovery and
accordingly, having the tablets she slept and after she awakened, she
noticed her frock lifting above waist which she reported their land lady
and after return of her mother (PW 2) she narrated the incident to her
mother also who on suspicion lodged the FIR but the accused never do
any wrong to her. Close on the heels to the evidence of the victim, her
mother PW 2 also stated that when she was in her parental house due to
illness, the victim asked her to come home and accordingly when she
returned home, Abul Kalam (PW 3) questioned her for leaving the victim
alone at home with the accused and also reported that the accused had
done bad act with the victim. But the victim told her only that in her
(PW 1) absence when she had been suffering from fever, the accused
gave her tablet for recovery. Then on pressure of the villagers, she
lodged the FIR. Thus it appears that the victim and her mother
themselves in deposition had not alleged commission of rape. Though
PW 3 to PW 6 testified that in presence of villagers, the victim stated
that the accused administering her some tablets, did have sexual
intercourse with her and the accused also admitted the same but the
victim herself in deposition has not alleged commission of any sexual
act on her by the accused. The evidence of PW 3 to PW 6 also showed
that as the victim resided with the accused alone at home in absence of
victim's mother, hence out of suspicion they asked the victim to which
victim stated the fact of sexual intercourse on her by the accused whereas
the victim herself denied of any sexual assault on her and stated that on
awakening, noticing her frock raising upon waist, she informed landlord
PW 3’s wife. So wife of PW 3 was material witness to whom she
reported first. But she was not examined by prosecution. Though as per
evidence of PW 3 to PW 6 the accused admitted his guilt before the
Contd....
(9)
villagers but it is well settled that extra judicial confession cannot be
relied upon unless corroborated by some other credible evidence. In the
present case the victim herself had not alleged the commission of rape.
She in deposition clearly negates any sexual assault on her by the
accused. Rather she stated that as tutored, she made statement before
Magistrate. As per medical report also, hymen found intact and no

injury was detected on her body.

21. In view of the above facts and circumstances, I am
of the considered opinion that it is not a case of establishing the guilt of
the accused beyond any shadow of doubt and consequently he deserves
benefit of doubt. Accordingly, accused Md Bahadur Ali is acquitted of
the charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act on benefit of doubt and set him at

liberty forthwith. His bail bond shall remain in force till next six months.

22. Given under my hand and the seal of this Court on
this 10" day of August, 2018.

& iG og
(I. Barman)
Special Judge .
Bongaigaon. ~

Dictated and corrected by me,

{j . «s

[, Fibiceg
(1. Barman) |

x

Specig) Judges {

vbw
24]

2
soe

Bongaigaon.
(10)
APPENDIX

 

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Informant as well as mother of the victim.
PW 2 —- Victim.

PW 3 — Abdul Kalam.

PW 4 — Abdul Majid.

PW 5 — Rafique Sheikh.

PW 6 — Musaraf Hussain.

PW 7 Dr Priyanka Ray, M.O.

PW 8 Dr Ranjit Kr Pradhan, Radiologist.
PW 9- Rahmat Ali.

PW 10- Siba Prasad Kalita, I.O.

 

Defence Witness:
Nil.

 

Documents Exhibited by Prosecution:
Ext-1 Medical report.

Ext-2 Advice slip.

Ext-3 Urine for pregnancy test.

Ext-4 Radiological report.

Ext-5 Seizure list.

Ext 6- Extract copy of the GDE no. 346 dated 15.9.2017.
Ext 7- Sketch map of the P.O.

Ext 8- FIR.

Ext 9- Charge sheet.

Material Exhibited by prosecution:

M.Ext 1- LP school certificate of the victim.

/) \&
Defence Exhibit: i] os
Nil. LAD
(I. Barman )
Special Judge,
