Page 1 of 25

N THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of
accused. u/s 313 Cr.P.C

Dateof Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

08 of 2014

(Under Section 376 of IPC and 6 of the
POCSO Act, arising out of G.R. Case
No. 2187 of 2014)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam
-Vs.
Sri Haren Nath
Son of Late Kanak Nath
Resident of Monai Bishnupur

Police Station — Sootea
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam

19/08/2016.
07/11/2016,09/11/2016,
25/01/2017,06/03/2017

28/04/2017,09/05/2017
30/05/2017 & 19/06/2017.

07/06/2016.

18/08/2017 & 24-08-2017
31-08-2017.

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah,
Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Mr. S. Misra, Advocate.
Page 2 of 25
JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Haren Nath is put for trial for allegation
of charge under Section 376 of the IPC read with section 6 of the
POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR, in brief, is that in the
evening of 6 p.m. of 06-09-2014 accused called the minor daughter of
the informant to his house and committed rape on her as a result, she
sustained severe injury. Due to the injuries sustained by victim.she had
to treat at Tezpur Civil Hospital. Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by informant Sri Dhan Nath»before the
Incharge of Itakhola Police Out Post on 07-09-2014. Onwreceipt of the
ejahar, the I/C of Itakhola Police Out Post by giving*the GD Entry No.
117 dated 07-09-2014 at about 12 noon forwarded the same to O/C
Sootea Police station for registering a case..On being receipt the ejahar,
the O.C Sootea P.S. registered the case vide Sootea P.S. Case No.
111/2014 under Section 379 of the IPC. After completion of usual
investigation, the O/C of SooteaPS sent up the case for trial against the
accused Sri Haren Nath‘by filing charge sheet under Section 376 of the
IPC read with section.4.of POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, framed charge under section 376 of the IPC read with
section 6.of.POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused Sri Haren Nath and
particulars’ of the charge was read over, explained to the accused to
whichvhe pleads not guilty and claims to be tried.

4, To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 15
(Fifteen) numbers of witnesses and also one court witness.

6. After completion of prosecution evidence accused is examined
u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and
evidence appears against the accused are put before him for
explanation where he denied the evidence and allegation. To buttress
the defence accused has examined two witnesses as DW 1 and DW 2.

7. I have heard the argument put forwarded by the learned
counsels of both sides.

 
Page 3 of 25

8. The point for decision in this case is that:

1. Whether on or about 6 p.m. of 06-09-2014 at village
Bishnupur under Sootea Police station, accused committed
rape on the victim (8 years of age) and thereby committed
an offence punishable u/s 376 of IPC read with section 6 of
the POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.
9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence

 

on record.

10. PW 1, Sri Dhan Nath @ Deepak, the complainant ofthis’ case,
stated that the victim is his 8 years minor daughter. The incident took
place about two years ago. The incident took place at about 6.30 p.m.
At the relevant time he was in the village Namghar for the rehearsal of
“Bhouna”. He was reported by the accused that)as a result of rape his
daughter was bleeding. Therefore he rushed to his house where he
noticed bleeding from the private,parts of his daughter. While he asked
the accused, the accused told:him not to worry, he took his daughter to
the hospital for treatment-with his cost. The accused confessed his guilt.
Immediately, his wife Munu Devi informed this matter to the public of
Namghar. Then the public came to the house of the accused and held
him. His daughter was taken to hospital by his wife and he filed the
ejahar. Ext.)1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. The local
public confined the accused in the Namghar and then police arrested
thevaccused. His daughter was initially taken to Dhalaibil hospital, then
to Tezpur where she had been hospitalized for three days. After that
the statement of the victim was recorded through the learned
Magistrate. At the relevant time his daughter was studied at class IV

standard at Bapuji LP School.

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions the evidence as to on being came to know
about the incident he went to his house and saw the bleedings of his
minor daughter from her private parts, while he asked the accused, the
accused admitting his guilty stating that he will take the girl to hospital

with his own cost has remained unchallenged.

 
Page 4 of 25

11. ©=PW 2 Sri Konkon Nath, the minor brother of the victim, stated
that the incident took place in the year, 2014. At about 4/5 p.m.
accused called him to his home. Accordingly he went there. Accused has
also called his sister (victim) to his home for making tea. After having
biscuits he returned to home. After a while he again went to the house
of the accused and peeping through the window, saw accused after
removing the clothes of his sister fell her down, on the bed, gagged her
mouth and sleep over his sister doing ups and down in compromise
position. Then her sister returned to the house and told theincident to

their mother.

Though he has been subjected to long cross-examination, the
evidence as to at the relevant time accused called him and his sister to
his house, after giving biscuits he returned to his house, thereafter he
again went to the house of accused, while-he peeping through the
window, saw accused after removing the clothes of his sister fell her
on the bed and gagged her mouth and sleep over her in compromise

position has remained unchallenged.

12. PW 3 Sri Tultul Saikia turned hostile. The unhostile portion of
his evidence is that‘he:knows the victim and the accused. The victim is
the daughter of.Dhan Nath. The incident took place about two years
ago. In the next day of the incident, he came to know in the house of

Dhan, Nath that accused committed rape on the victim.

13. © PW 4 Sri Puna Nath stated that he knows the accused as Bubul
Nath. He also know the victim. The incident took place about two years
ago in the evening. Next day of the incident, he went to the house of
Dhan Nath. He came to know from the grand-mother of the victim that

accused committed sexual acts on the victim after removing her clothes.

14. PW 5 Sri Rinku Borah @ Bubu Borah has stated that at the
relevant time he along with the local people were busy in rehearsal of
“Bhouna” at Nijarapar Namghar. In the mean time, the mother of the
victim along with one woman of their village came to them, informed

them that accused committed rape on the victim. Immediately, they

 
Page 5 of 25

rushed to the place of occurrence. He noticed bleedings of the minor
girl. The victim also reported that accused committed rape on her.
When the accused tried to fled away but the public caught him and then
accused confessed his guilt. During investigation, police has seized one
blue coloured panty used by the victim at the relevant time. Police has
also seized one navy blue grown and one green white blouse vide Ext.2

seizure list and Ext. 2(1) is his signature.

He has been duly cross-examined by the defence but»=except
giving many suggestions the evidence as to on being came to.know
about the incident from the mother of the victim and one*woman of
their village, he came to the house of the complainant and had seen
bleedings of the minor girl, the victim girl also stated that accused
committed rape on her and the accused. confessed his guilt has

remained unchallenged.

15. PW 6 Sri Ghana Das stated that-at the relevant time he was also
busy in rehearsal of “Bhouna” at their local Namghar. In the mean time,
mother of the victim informed»them that accused committed rape on
their girl. So, they went to the house of the complainant and noticed
bleedings of the. private parts of the victim. While they searched
accused, accused at first tried to flee away but lateraon they
apprehended=the accused and took him to Namghar and interrogation
he admitted that he cannot say what he had done. During investigation
police. seized some clothes used by the victim at the relevant time

through Ext.2 siezure-list and Ext. 2(2) is his signature.

It appears that the said PW 6 has been exposed to long cross-
examination but except giving suggestions the evidence as to while he
was in rehearsal of “Bhouna” at Nijarapar Namghar the mother of the
victim complained them that accused has committed rape on her minor
daughter, then he along with others rushed to the house of the
complainant, noticed bleedings from the private parts of the victim,
though accused tried to fled away but he was caught, took him to the
local Namghar where accused stated that he cannot say what he had

done has remained unshaken.

 
Page 6 of 25

16. PW 7, Miss “X”, the victim, stated that accused is known to
her. The incident took place at about 6 O'clock in the evening. She was
called by accused to their home for making tea. During that time, wife
of the accused was absent. After giving biscuits to her brother, she
again went to the house of the accused and gave tea to the accused
(Bordeuta). Then she went to the site of the Well to wash utensils.
Accused took her to the bed. During that time no one has seen the
incident. She also did not raise any alarm as she did not think the
consequence of the act of the accused. Accused opened her-panty.He
also opened his pant. He inserted his sexual organ into_her private
parts. As he gagged her mouth with his hands so shescould not raise
alarm. She sustained hurt. Bleedings her private parts. Then accused go
towards backside and she went to her own_house, She informed about
the incident to her mother. Then her mother called the accused, asked
him why he did such an act but«accused did not state anything.
Thereafter, the accused consoled them»not to worry and he will took the
victim to the hospital in a vehicle..-Then her father called the accused
and local people took the: accused to the Namghar. Initially, police took
her to Dhalaibil hospital but the hospital authority refused to admit her
so she was sent.to Tezpur Civil Hospital. The doctor stitches her private
parts and she was given injection. She has been hospitalized from
Saturday to-Monday. Then she was sent to the court for recording her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C and Ext. 3 is her statement and Ext. 3(1),
3(2),.3(3) and 3(4) are her signatures. Police seized her wearing
apparels i.e. frock, pant, skirt. Material Exhibit 1 is the said seized

clothes.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination, but
the evidence as to at the relevant time she was called by the accused to
make tea and after making tea she gave it to the accused and also gave
some biscuits to her brother and while she was at the site of the Well to
wash utensils, accused forcefully took her to his bed, opening his pant
and her pant, inserted his sexual organ into her private parts, as a
result she sustained hurt and her private parts was bleedings has

remained unshaken.

 
Page 7 of 25

17. PW 8 Sri Jintu Borah, stated that in the evening time on the
day of incident while he was in the rehearsal of “Bhouna” at Nijarapar
Namghar, the mother of the victim came to them and informed them
that her 72 years old daughter was raped, then he rushed to the house
of the complainant and noticed bleedings from the private parts of the
victim. Though the accused initially tried to flee away but he has been
caught and took to the Namghar and handed over the accused to

police.

It appears that he has been duly cross-examined by defence but
the evidence as to at the relevant time while he was busy inyrehearsal
of “Bhouna”, on being came to know about the incident from the
mother of the victim they went to the house-of the complainant and

noticed bleedings of victim has remained unchallenged.

18. PW 9 Sri Bhupen Nath, who was also in the rehearsal of
“Bhouna” at Nijarapar Namghar, on being came to know about the
incident from the mother of thesvictim he along with other persons
rushed to the house ofthe “complainant where he noticed bleedings
from the private parts of)the victim and victim also stated that the

accused committed rape on her.

Though the defence has duly cross-examined him but the
evidence ‘as to at the relevant time on being came to know about the
incident when he went to the house of the complainant, he noticed
bleedings from the private parts of the victim and the victim reported

them that accused committed rape on her has remained unchallenged.

19. PW 10 Sri Babul Borah who turned hostile stated that he came
to know about the incident in the evening of that day. He was busy in
his tea stall at the relevant time. VDP Secretary Prakash Nath informed
him over telephone that a “hulasthul” took place in their village so he
went there and saw the accused was tied in Namghar. Then he turned

hostile.

20. PW 11 Dr. Jharna Kakoti, deposed that on 07-09-2014 she was
posted as working as Sr. Medical & Health Officer in the Kanaklata Civil

 
Page 8 of 25

Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at about 3 A.M. in the labour room
complex of KCH, she examined Miss “X”, 8 years, female, D/O Sri Dipak
Nath of Military Block, PS Sootea, in reference to Itakhola OP GDE No.
Nil Dated 06-09-2014. On examination I found the following:

Identification mark — A mole on the left side of the hairline on
forehead. Menstrual history — menarche not attained. History of sexual
assault on 06-09-14 around 5 p.m. At the time of examination she was
well dressed, neat and tidy. Her gait was normal. Height — 122 cm.,
Weight — 20 Kg, Teeth — 6/6 5/5. Pulse — 90/min, BP — 90/60. Her
secondary sexual characters are not developed. Breasts not developed.
Auxillary and public hairs absent. Tear of hymen at-6°O’ \clock. There
was a 1* degree perineal tear 1 cm x ¥2 cm. Simple, fresh and caused
by blunt object, extended from the site of tear.of hymen (i.e. 6 O'clock).
Vaginal smear for spermatozoa was taken» There was no mark of injury
on her other parts of the body. The patient was admitted at the M&G
Ward and referred to gynaecologist for further treatment.

Investigations advised and»reports-

1.Vaginal smear /fors Spermatozoa — not seen. Done at KCH
Laboratory, Lab No. 95 dated 07-09-2014.

2. X-ray_of_wrist-joint, elbow joint, hand and hip joint, pelvis and
spine:

i) Epiphysis of the lower end of radius and ulna, head of radius
and_both epicondile of upper end of the left humerus are open.

ii) In the left hand, epiphysis of the bases of proximal
phalanges and heads of all metacarpal and base of fifth metacarpal
bones are open.

iii) Epiphysis of greater trochanter and femoral capital. Epiphysis
are open. — Age of the person under investigation is below 10 years.
Report given by Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist, done at Assam X-ray clinic
& Laboratory. Patient ID No. — AX 21654 dated 08-09-2014.

OPINION:

1. Age of the person under investigation appears to be below 10
years.

 
Page 9 of 25

2. There is injury on her private parts. There is a 1* degree
perineal tear, 1 cm x % cm, simple, fresh (less than 12 hours) and
caused by blunt object, extend from the site of tear of hymen i.e. 6
O’clock position.

Ext. 4 is the Medical Report and Ext. 4 (1) is her signature. Ext.
5 is X-ray report along with plates and Ext. 5(1) is the signature of Dr.
P.K. Barman, Radiologist, which is known to her. Ext. 6 is the laboratory

report. Ext. 7 is the advice slip and Ext. 7(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination the doctor admitted that in herreport’GD
entry mentioned as Nil but date was there. The injury sustained by the

victim may be caused by any type of blunt object.

21. PW 12 Smt. Barnali Sarmah, deposedthat‘on 09-09-2014 she
was working as Judicial Magistrate, 1* class, Tezpur. On that day, in
reference to Sootea PS Case No. 111/14 .u/s°376 of the IPC, she has
recorded the statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. of one eight years old victim
Miss “X”, D/O Sri Dipak Nath at court chamber as Elaka Magistrate.
Since the witness was eight years old minor, so she has put some
questions and on her answers she is satisfied that she is able to
understand the question put to her and to give rational answer
accordingly, she has recorded her statement. The witness made
statementbefore her voluntarily. After recording her statement she has
read oversthe contents of the writings and on her acceptance she put
her‘signature thereon. Ext. 8 is her order dated 09-09-2014 in GR Case
No», 2187/14 and Ext. 8(1) is her signature. Ext. 3 is the statement of
the victim Ila Devi recorded by her on 09-09-2014 and Ext. 3(5) is her

signature.

22. PW 13 SI Munindra Kr. Nath, deposed that on 28/05/2016 he
was posted as SI of police at Itakhola Police Out Post. On that day, he
received the case diary of GR case No. 2187/14. On perusal of the case
diary it appears that previous I.0. has almost completed the
investigation and he has only collected the medical report of the victim
and also applied for Hon’ble court for registered the case under POCSO

Act. Thereafter, he filed the chargesheet against the accused Haren

 
Page 10 of 25

Nath u/s 376 of IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act. Ext. 9 is the

chargesheet and Ext. 9(1) is his signature.

23. PW 14 SI Uttam Tamang, deposed that on 06-09-2014 he was
working at Itakhola Out Post as Officer Incharge. On that day, at about
10.30 p.m. he has got an information from some unknown person that
one minor girl was raped by one person at Jaysidhi Military Block and
the accused was assaulted by local public. On being receipt the
information he made GD Entry vide Itakhola Out Post GDE N@.. 105
dated 06-09-2014 at 10.30 p.m. and he visited the place of occurrence.
According to local public the said accused raped one Ila Devi at about 6
p.m. Then he proceeded to the house of the victim girl.» Immediately,
with the help of WPC Sumitra Dutta they sentsthe victim to Dholaibil
PHC. There he has seized one blood stainedpanty (blue colour) put by
the victim girl in presence of witnesses. By Ext.2, the seizurelist he has
seized one blood stained panty (blue colour), one skirt and one frock
which are Material Ext. 1, 2 and 3 and Ext. 2(3) is his signature.

Thereafter, he has recorded the statement of the witnesses.

On 07-09-2014 he\prepared sketch map. Then he returned to
Itakhola Out Post.. Onsthat day, one Dhan Nath, S/O late Khagen Nath
of village Bishnupur Military block filed an FIR and after receiving the
same, he made GD Entry vide Itakhola OP GDE NO. 117 dated 07-09-
2014. at 12 noon and forwarded the same to O/C Sootea PS for
registering a case. He has already been taken up the investigation of
the case. After receiving the FIR O/C Sootea PS Homendra Hira
registered a case being Sootea PS Case No.111/14 u/s 376 of the IPC.
Ext. 1 is the said FIR and Ext. 1(2) is his signature with note and Ext.
1(3) is the signature of Homendra Hira, O/C of Sootea PS. Then he went
to Sootea PS where accused was kept in safe custody and after
interrogation he has arrested the accused and forwarded him to Tezpur
Court. On being referred by Doctor of Dholaibil PHC, victim Miss “X”
was admitted at KCH, Tezpur. On 09-09-2014 he sent the victim to the
court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On his transfer he has

handed over the case diary to O/C Sootea PS.

 
Page 11 of 25

He has recorded the statement of Tultul Saikia who stated
before him that “on hearing commotion at about 7 p.m. I went near the
Namghar and had noticed many people gathered there. I came to know
from the gathering that Haren Nath called Ila Devi to his home to
prepare tea and then committed rape on her. On being seen the critical
condition of the girl local public caught Haren Nath, assaulted and

handed over to police.”

He has also recorded the statement of Babul Bora who»stated
before him that on hearing commotion at Bishnupur Military, block he
came there today in the evening and came to know from local public
that Haren Nath committed rape on Miss “X”. Thereafter; local people
searched the accused Haren Nath but he fled away behind his home and
people by chasing him and caught him. On being,asked he confessed his
guilt that he committed rape on Miss “X”.. He-came to know that he in
earlier occasion also involved in such‘scandal related to women. Ext. 9 is
the case diary of GR Case No. 2187/14 and Ext. 9(1) is the relevant
statement of Tultul Saikia and Ext. 9(2) is his signature. Ext. 9(3) is the

relevant statement of Babul Bora and Ext. 9(4) is his signature.

24. PW 15 SI Budhiar Muktiar deposed that on 26-05-2017 he was
posted as Incharge of Itakhola Police Out Post. On that day upon the
requisition of the Court of District & Sessions Judge, Sonitpur, Tezpur he
has submitted the extract copy of GDE being GDE NO. 105 dated 06-09-
2014..He has certified the aforesaid copy of GDE copied from the
original GDE which he brought today. Ext. 10 is the said certified copy of
GD Entry and Ext. 10(1) is his signature. Ext. 11 is the original General
Diary Entry maintained in the Itakhola Police Out Post under Sootea
Police station from 11-08-2014 to 19-09-2014 and Ext. 11(1) is his

signature.
25. These much is the evidence of the prosecution.

26. While the accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. he stated that

he is innocent. In fact a quarrel took place in between them and the

 
Page 12 of 25

father of the victim for a plot of land. So, on grudge complainant filed

this false case against him

27. To buttress the defence, the accused examined two defence

witnesses.

28. DW 1, Sri Nirmal Nath stated that he knows the accused Haren
Nath and the complainant Sri Dhan Nath. Victim is the daughter of
complainant Sri Dhan Nath. His house is situated near the house of
accused Haren Nath. At about 2 years 8/9 months ago, hevalong with
accused Haren Nath were busy in making furniture from about 8-a.m. till
7.30 p.m on that day. During that time none has-come ‘to the place
where they were busy in making furniture. During, that time victim,
daughter of complainant Dhan Nath also didnot came to the house of
Haren Nath. There is a strange relation\in between Dhan Nath and
Haren Nath. Even they do not have any visiting terms. Due to land
dispute the said quarrel took place. Dhan Nath forcefully occupied one
bigha of land from Haren Nath, that led to contention. At the relevant
day, the wife of the Harenx Nath was not present in their house. On
hearing hulla in the house of Haren Nath, at about 9/9.30 p.m., he went
to the house of Haren\Nath and saw that some people assaulted Haren
Nath. The said people not belong to their village. There are houses of

Dipali Devi;,Dhan Nath etc. near the house of Haren Nath.

In cross-examination by the prosecution he admitted that on
that day, he had his lunch which was taken from his house. Tea also
provides to the place by his wife. His house is situated about 20 ft away
from the house of Haren Nath i.e. to the other side of the house of
Haren Nath. There were about 20 houses in and around his home.
There are also a Namghar in the name of their village. There is also a
Namghar situated at Nijarapar which is situated at a distance of about
1% km from the house of Haren Nath. At the relevant day, there were
no gathering in our local Namghar. At the time of arrival of police he
was not there. There is no any civil case for the land dispute in
between the parties as stated above. He does not know the Dag and
Patta No. of the disputed land.

 
Page 13 of 25

29. DW 2 Smt. Dipali Devi stated that she knows the accused Haren
Nath and the complainant Sri Dhan Nath. Victim is the daughter of
complainant Sri Dhan Nath. His house is situated near the house of
accused Haren Nath. On 06-09-2014 Nirmal Nath and Haren Nath were
preparing furniture in the house of Haren Nath till 7.30 p.m. On that
day, the wife of Haren Nath was not present in their house. At about 9
p.m. on hearing hulla they came out and rushed to the house of Haren
Nath and saw some people assaulted Haren Nath. The said people not
belonged to their village. There are houses of Nirmal Nath, Bipul, herself
etc. near the house of Haren Nath. Due to land dispute;.quarrel took
place in between Dhan Nath and Haren Nath. Dhan Nath,always used to
threaten the accused. At the relevant day, victim, girl was fishing in a
nearby drain. She warned her not to enter, inthe drain as there were

leeches. As per her knowledge the victim was bite by leeches.

In cross-examination by prosecution she admitted that her house is
situated on the western side of the house of Nirmal Nath. The Namghar
situated on the eastern side of the house of the Haren Nath. Victim girl
was fishing in a nearby drainy Her brother was playing. They have two
children. The drain where the girl was fishing contain less then knee

deep water. She has seen the victim in the said drain at about 3 p.m.

She cannot say whether accused committed rape on the victim
or not..Due to boundary dispute, quarrel took place in between Dhan
Nath and Haren Nath. She cannot say the area of the disputed land.
There is a drain in between the house of Dhan Nath and Haren Nath.
There is no case for the land dispute in between the parties and no
meeting was convened for the said dispute. Sura Devi and Bimal Nath
are still alive and reside in their village. She cannot recall the time when
police arrived. After hearing the incident all people of Namghar came to

the place of occurrence. She has not received any notice from the Court.

30. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly,
other than the victim none has supported the prosecution case. The

alleged eye witness PW 2 could not state about the incident clearly.

 
Page 14 of 25

Secondly, though the doctor who examined the victim stated that on
examination she found a tear of hymen at 6 O’ clock and there was a 1*
degree perineal tear 1 cm x ¥Y2 cm. Simple, fresh and caused by blunt
object, extended from the site of tear of hymen (i.e. 6 O’clock). But the
doctor admitted that such type of injury may be caused by any blunt
object and Thirdly, there is a clear evidence that due to boundary
dispute quite often quarrel took place in between Dhan Nath and Haren
Nath which was ably proved by DW 1 and DW 2 therefore, the
complainant has falsely implicated the accused in such a heinous crime

that has to be considered.

31. Per contra, learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved.the case beyond any
reasonable doubt, as such, accused is required.to be convicted under

the charged section of law.

32. Keeping in mind the argument ‘advanced by learned counsels of

both sides, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

33. A close scanning of the record including the evidence it appears
that to substantiate the case prosecution has examined as many as 15
numbers of witnesses. Out of 15 (fifteen) numbers of witnesses, 4
(four) are/official witnesses and remaining 11 (eleven) are non-official
witnesses: It-appears that about the incident not only the victim has
stated but there is other evidence of PW 2, the brother of the victim
who is also eye witness to the occurrence. His presence at the place of
occurrence cannot be ruled out from the facts and circumstances of the

CcaSe.

34. Let me discuss the evidence adduced by other non-official
witnesses including the victim and brother of the victim. PW 1 who is
the father of the victim, stated that at the relevant time at about 6.30
p.m. he was in rehearsal of “Bhouna” in their local Namghar where
accused himself informed him that an incident took place in his house.
He also stated that as a result of rape, bleeding occurred from his minor

daughter. Then he rushed to his house where he noticed bleeding from

 
Page 15 of 25

the private parts of his daughter. While he asked the accused, accused
told him that not to worry, he took his daughter to the hospital for
treatment at his cost. He also admitted that he has committed rape on
her and immediately his wife informed the matter to the public of the
Namghar. Then the public came to the house of the accused and held
him. Then he filed the jeahar Ext. 1 and Ext.1(1) is his signature.

PW 5 Sri Rinku Borah, PW 6 Sri Ghana Das, PW 8 Sri Jintu Borah
and PW 9 Sri Bhupen Nath who were in rehearsal of “Bhouna”“=at the
relevant time at their local Nijarapar Namghar with complainant-PW 1.
While they were busy in rehearsal of “Bhouna”, the mother ofthe victim
along with one lady came to Namghar and informed them that accused
raped her daughter. On being come to know-about the incident, they
rushed to the house of the complainant. Theysnoticed bleedings from
the private parts of the victim. The victim also reported them that the
accused committed rape on her. When the accused tried to flee away
but the local public caught. him and then he confessed his guilt.
Thereafter, the accused was taken to their Namghar. Though all the
aforesaid witnesses were exposed to long cross-examination the
evidence as to at the:relevant time while they were busy in rehearsal of
“Bhouna” at Nijarapar Namghar, they have been informed by wife of the
complainant, that accused has committed rape on the victim and on
being.came to know about the incident they rushed to the house of the
complainant where they noticed bleedings from the private parts of the
victim and accused had confessed his guilt has remained unshaken.
Though accused initially wants to flee away but he was caught and

lateron taken to Namghar has also remained same.

35. PW 7 Miss “X”, the victim who was examined after making
enquiry by putting some questions to test her ability to understand and
give rational answers stated that the incident took place at about 6
O’clock in the evening. She was called by accused to their home for
making tea. During that time, wife of the accused was absent. After
giving biscuits to her brother, she again went to the house of the

accused and gave tea to the accused (Bordeuta). Then she went to the

 
Page 16 of 25

site of the Well to wash utensils. Accused took her to the bed. During
that time no one has seen the incident. She also did not protest as she
did not think the consequence of the act of the accused. In the house of
the accused, he removed her panty and also opened his pant. Accused
inserted his sexual organ into her private parts. As accused gagged her
mouth with his hands so she could not raise alarm. She sustained hurt
and bleedings from her private parts. Then accused go towards
backside. Thereafter, she went to her own house and informed about
the incident to her mother. Her mother asked the accused why herdid
such a heinous act but accused did not state anything. Thereafter, the
accused console them not to worry stating that he took the victim to the
hospital in a vehicle. Then her father called the xaccused and local
people took the accused to the Namghar. Initially, police took her to
Dhalaibil hospital but the hospital authority. refused to admit her so she
was sent to Tezpur Civil Hospital. The doctor stitches her private parts
and she was given injection. Shefhas been hospitalized from Saturday to
Monday. Then she was sent to'the-court for recording her statement u/s
164 Cr.P.C and Ext. 3 is-her-statement and Ext. 3(1), 3(2), 3(3) and
3(4) are her signatures. Police seized her wearing apparels i.e. frock,
pant, skirt. Material ‘Exhibit 1 is the said seized clothes. Though she has
been exposed\to long cross-examination, except giving many
suggestions, ‘the evidence as to at the relevant time she was called by
the accused to make tea and after making tea she given it to the
accused and also giving some biscuits to her brother and while she was
at the site of the Well to wash utensils, accused forcefully took her to
his bed, by removing his pant and her pant, inserted his sexual organ
into her private parts, as a result bleedings her private parts and she
sustained injury has remained unchallenged. Her evidence is also
supported by another eye witness PW 2 Sri Konkon Nath, minor brother
of the victim. PW 2 stated that at the relevant time, at about 4/5 p.m.
accused called him to his home. Accordingly he went there. Accused has
also called his sister (victim) to his home to prepare tea. After having
biscuits he returned to home. After a while he again went to the house

of the accused and peeping through the window, he seen accused after

 
Page 17 of 25

removing the clothes of his sister fell her on the bed and gagged her
mouth and sleep over his sister doing ups and down in compromise
position. Though he has been subjected to long cross-examination, the
evidence as to the relevant time accused called him and his sister to his
house, after giving biscuits he returned to his house, thereafter he again
went to the house of accused, while he peeping through the window
and saw accused after removing the clothes of his sister fell her on the
bed and gagged her mouth and sleep over his sister in compromise

position has remained unchallenged.

36. While assessing and evaluating this eye witness, »PW 2, it
appears that the circumstances of the case was possible for PW 2 to be
present at the scene of occurrence and there. is. nothing inherently
improbable and unreliable his presence. Besides,that on scrutinizing the
evidence of PW 1 and PW 7, it appears.that they are consistent with
one another so far as the place of Occurrence, the fact of inviting them
by the accused to prepare tea, the manner of sexual act by the accused
to the victim and nothing) has been brought out in their cross-
examination to impeach “their testimony. The evidence of injury of the

victim in her private parts is fully corroborated by the medical evidence.

37. In this case, the victim, her brother, her father and independent
witnesses ‘vividly described the whole incident. Their statements are
corroborated with each other. During their cross-examination, the same
has not been disputed at all by the defence. The victim has been
consistent with regard to the fact that on the day of incident accused
called her to his house to prepare tea, accordingly, she went there,
gave tea to the accused and after giving biscuits to her brother, she
went to the site of the Well to wash the utensils, from there accused
took her to his bed, undressed her and committed rape on her where
she was bleeding and sustained injury on her private part has
corroborated. The victim has also stated such before the learned
Magistrate while her statement was recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and before
the police u/s 161 Cr.P.C. The un rebuttable evidence of Doctor is that

on examination she found tear of hymen at 6 O’ clock, there was a 1°

 
Page 18 of 25

degree perineal tear 1 cm x % cm. Simple, fresh and caused by blunt
object, extended from the site of tear of hymen (i.e. 6 O'clock) on the
victim. Though the doctor in cross-examination admitted that the injury
sustained by the victim may be caused by any type of blunt object, but
there is no any evidence adduced by the defence that the victim
sustained such injury on her private parts through a blunt object. It also
appears that victim has not been cross-examined by the defence on the
point of injuries sustained by victim in her private parts any other
means with a blunt weapon. Nor any suggestion has been made to’the
victim that she sustained injury on her private parts by any.blunt object.
Due to forceful intercourse such type of injury i.e. 4° “degree perineal
tear 1 cm x % cm, simple, fresh and caused by-blunt object, extended
from the site of tear of hymen (i.e. 6 O'clock) on the vagina of the

victim cannot be ruled out.

In the present case, the victim was examined without taking
oath by testifying her ability to give rational answers. Apart from victim,
PW 1 and PW 2 respectively father and brother of the victim have
supported the evidence of the victim. There is nothing in the cross-
examination of any@of\the said prosecution witnesses which could
suggest that they were deposing falsely in any manner. Though they
have suggested to vigorous cross-examination, but all the witnesses

vehemently denied.

38. «The another point is to be discussed in the present case is that
PW 1 and 2 are respectively father and brother of the victim, therefore,
the question may arise as to the interestedness of their evidence.
In state of Uttar Pradesh Vs. Jag Deo reported in AIR 2003
SC 660 it has been held that —
"Most of the times eye witnesses happen to be family members
of close associates because unless a crime is committed in a
public place, strangers are not likely to be present at the time of
occurrence. Ultimately eye witnesses have to be persons who
have reason to be present on the scene of occurrence because

they happened either to be friends or family members of victim.

 
Page 19 of 25

The law is long settled that for the mere reason that an eye
witness can be said to be an interested witness, his/her
testimony need not be rejected. For the interest of which an eye
witness may have, the court can while considering his or her
evidence exercise caution and give a reasonable discount, if
required. But this surely cannot be reason to ignore the evidence

of eye witness. ”

39. Coming to the present case, it is true that PW 1 and=2 are
respectively father and brother of the victim. As stated above,-PW 2 is
eye witness to the incident. The incident took place inside.the house of
the accused where it is only PW 2 seen the occurrence by peeping
through the window. The fact of extra-judicial-confession made by the
accused before the PW 1, PW 5 and PW 6.are/cannot be ruled out.
Besides that, on being came to know about-the incident the aforesaid
witnesses rushed to the house of thexcomplainant where they witnessed
the bleedings from the private parts of the victim. PW 5 and PW 9 have
also heard from the mouth of the victim that accused has committed
rape on her. Therefore, ‘the ‘evidence of PW 1 and PW 2 cannot be
thrown overboard simply on the ground of interestedness of their

evidence.

40. Another point is to be discussed in the present case is that in
statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. the accused stated that a quarrel took place
in between them and the father of the victim for a plot of his land. So,
on grudge complainant filed this false case against him. To substantiate
his plea the accused has examined two defence witnesses i.e. DW 1 and
DW 2. It appears that both the DWs have appeared before the court not
on summons. They have come to give evidence at the request of the
accused. Besides that, the evidence of DWs cannot be relied on and
convincing because DW 1 though stated in examination-in-chief that
there was a strange relation between Dhan Nath and Haren Nath due to
land dispute. But, he admitted in cross-examination that there is no civil
case for the land dispute in between the parties as stated above. He

even does not know the Dag and Patta number of the alleged disputed

 
Page 20 of 25

land. He even not know the boundaries of alleged disputed land.
Similarly, DW 2 though stated in examination-in-chief that due to
boundary dispute a quarrel took place between the parties where the
complainant always used to threatened the accused. But in cross-
examination she admitted that she cannot say the area of the alleged
disputed land. Besides, there is no any case for alleged disputed land
and no meeting was convened for the said alleged dispute. It is
interesting to note that the DW 2 stated that at the relevant time the
victim was fishing in nearby a drain and she was warned as there were
leeches. As per her knowledge the victim was bite by leeches»But the
defence has failed to cross-examine the victim as to. biting of leeches
while she was in fishing at the relevant time. Though the defence tried
to project an absurd story as to the injury“of the victim by biting of
leeches and also by stating a strange relation in between the
complainant and the accused but it is impossible to think that one
cannot falsely give evidence by implicating their own minor daughter
involving in such a heinous crime.That apart, there appears no any
reason that the complainant being the father of the victim put his own
minor daughter at,stake»by falsely pressing commission of sexual
offence. Besides,.evensif injury caused due to biting of a leech, that can
be a piercing injury. But such injury cannot be caused by blunt object as
held by Doctor. Under such circumstances, both the evidence of DWs

cannot’be relied on.

41. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of
accused is not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered
much as prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of
all reasonable doubts. However, in a case under POCSO Act, the
situation is not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to refer to the
provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

42. U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain

offences and same reads as under:

 
Page 21 of 25

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person
has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the
case may be, unless the contrary is proved.

43. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special
Court shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental, state
of the accused where culpable mental state is required on the part of

the accused.

44. Coming to the present case, whether the conviction can be
recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness:or ‘not?

Such type of issue was dealt by the \Hon’ble Apex Court in
Virendra — Vs — State of U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are
reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treatya witness to be a competent one. On the
contrary, Section 118<of. the Evidence Act envisages that who may
testify — all persons=shall be competent to testify unless the Court
considers that-they,are prevented from understanding the questions put
to them, or*from giving rational answers to those questions, by tender
years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind, or any other
cause of the same kind.”

45. ~— A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has
intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational answers
thereto. The evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected
per se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with
close scrutiny and only on being convinced about the quality thereof and
reliability can record conviction, based thereon.

46. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra,
(1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that a child witness if found competent
to depose to the facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis
of conviction. In other words, even in the absence of oath the evidence

of a child witness can be considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act

 
Page 22 of 25

provided that such witness is able to understand the questions and able
to give rational answer thereof. The evidence of a child witness and
credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of each case.
The only precaution which the Court should bear in mind while
assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a
reliable one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent
witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored.

47. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs —
State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on
the question whether the child witness has _ sufficient. intelligence
primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices*his, manners, his
apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and, the said Judge may
resort to any examination which will tend to.disclose his capacity and
intelligence as well as his understanding of.the obligation of an oath.
48. In the present case as stated above, the victim was examined
after testifying her rationally by~putting some questions where she
without hesitation makes statementy Besides another eye witness PW 2
has vividly narrated the whole“incident.

On appreciation of evidence given by the victim, her brother, her
father and another ‘independent witnesses and Doctor, I find that the
prosecution has, able to prove that the accused has committed
penetrative.sexual assault to the victim as a result she sustained severe
injury.on her private part beyond any reasonable doubt.

49. Now, the point is to decide as to what is the exact age of the
victim at the relevant point of time. According to the complainant, his
victim daughter was a minor. At the relevant time she was about 8
years old. According to the victim, her age was 10 years on the date of
deposition and according to the Doctor PW 11 who examined the victim,
the age of the victim was below 10 years. But the prosecution has failed
to collect any age certificate or birth certificate or the certificate from
the Institution where victim initially studied. No doubt, the victim was a
minor but the exact age of the victim could not be ascertained by
producing any proper authentic age certificate. Therefore, I have come

to the conclusion that the prosecution has failed to prove the alleged

 
Page 23 of 25

charge u/s 6 of the POCSO Act, but prosecution has able to prove the
charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused beyond all shadow
of doubt. As such accused Sri Haren Nath is convicted for the charge u/s
4 of the POCSO Act, but he is acquitted from the charge u/s 376 of the
IPC.

50. The accused is heard on the point of sentence. He has submitted
that he is the only earning member of his family. He has two children

and his wife. Hence, praying for leniency.

51. The learned defence counsel for the convict submits that the
convict Sri Haren Nath is a man of 53 years and by profession he is a
daily labour. He was not previously convicted in any offence and he is

the only earning members of their family. Henceppraying for leniency.

52. I have carefully considered the submissions made by learned
Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur aS well.as learned defence counsel. I

have also gone through the case record:

53. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court
should strike a-balance between aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the
crime and mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case,
so farcas the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor girl was
sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only to the body
but. also to the mind of the victim and to her family members, but
considering the mitigating circumstances, the accused was hardly 53
years of age at the time of the incident. It is not brought to the notice of
this Court that before this incident, the accused had committed any
other offence. The statute u/s.4 of POCSO Act prescribes minimum
punishment for a term of seven years with fine. When the intention of
the legislator is to impose stringent punishment for not less than seven
years, this court has no option but to impose minimum punishment of

seven years.

 
Page 24 of 25

ORDER

54. I convict the accused Sri Haren Nath u/s. 4 of POCSO Act and
sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 7 (seven) years and also to
pay a fine of Rs.5000/- (Rupees five thousand only), in default, Rigorous
Imprisonment for 1 (one) month for the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act.
The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from the
period of imprisonment, imposed on him according to the procedure of
428 of Cr.P.C.
55. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C,-the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through \the statement
of witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the-compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered\by the victim, an
amount of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifthy thousand) only is awarded as
compensation. The Secretary, District.Legal\ Aid Services Authority,
Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to give the-compensation to the father of the
victim after proper enquiry.

Let a copy of the Judgment be sent to the Secretary, District
Legal Aid Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur for her necessary action.
56. A copy of this Judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost

immediately.
57. Accused Sri Haren Nath be put to prison to serve the sentence.

58... ‘Let) another copy of Judgment be sent to learned District
Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur, u/s 365 of Cr.P.C.
Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 31%
day of August, 2017.
(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
1 oo Sl OY 1 pe fe he

Page 25 of 25

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8
Prosecution Witness No.9
Prosecution Witness No.10
Prosecution Witness No.11
Prosecution Witness No.12
Prosecution Witness No.13
Prosecution witness No. 14

Prosecution Witness No.15

1 Defence witness 1

2 Defence witness 2.

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 3(1):to'3(4)
Exhibit. 4-56 & 7

Ext.4(2) and 7(1)
Ext.8

2187/14

Ext. 8(1), 3(5)
Ext. 9

Ext. 9(1)

Sri Dhan Nath @ Deepak, complainant
Sri Konkon Nath,

Sri Tultul Saikia.

Sri Puna Nath

Sri Rinku Borah @ Bubu Borah

Sri Ghana Das,

Victim Miss X

Sri Jintu Borah

Sri Bhupen Nath

Sri Babul Borah

Dr. Jharna Kakoti, M.O.

Smt. Barnali Sarmah, Judl. Magistrate.
SI Munindra Kr. Nath,

SI Uttam Tamang, I.0O.

SI Budhiar,Muktiar, 1.0.

Defence Witness.

:- Sri Nirmal Nath

_ Smt. Dipali Devi
EXHIBITS.

Ejahar
Seizurelist.
statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C
signatures of the victim.
X-ray report, Medical report. Laboratory

report and advise slip.

signature of Doctor.
order dated 09-09-2014 in GR case

Signatures of Magistrate.
Chargesheet.
Signature of SI Munindra Kr. Nath.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
