1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present : Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Special 17/2015 corresponding to GR Case
No.1143/2015 & Diphu Police Station Case
No. 275/2015 Under Section 4 of the
POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Bhaskar Jyoti Kalita

Name of informant/complainant:

Shri Dnanu Malakar

S/o: Late Dhiren Malakar
Address: Police Reserve, District:
Karbi Anglong, Diphu

Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Bhaskar Jyoti Kalita
S/O Shri Radha Kanta Kalita
Police Reserve, Diphu
P.S : Diphu
District: Karbi Anglong.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the accused : Mr P.N Boro

Argument heard on : 11.12.2018.

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 18.12.2018

JUDGMENT
2|Page

1.

It is a case of sexual assault alleged to have been

committed by the accused, Shri Bhaskar Jyoti Kalita.

The prosecution case in brief is that on 17.12.2015,
the informant-Shri Dhanu Malakar lodged an ejahar
with Diphu Police Station stating inter alia that on the
same day at about 7-30 PM while he and his wife were
not available at their house, the accused came to their
house and lured their daughter, Smti. Debashree
Malakar aged 5 years and 10 months away to his

nearby residence. Then the accused rapped her.

On receipt of the written ejahar, O/C, Diphu Police
Station registered a criminal case vide Diphu Police
Station case No.275/2015 U/S 376(2)(f) of IPC R/W 6
of the POCSO Act. On completion of the investigation,
investigating police officer submitted charge-sheet
under section 377 of IPC R/W Section 4 of the POCSO
Act.

On completion of appearance of the accused
person, the case was committed to the then Sessions
Judge cum-Deputy Commissioner, Karbi Anglong,
Diphu for trial. Thereafter, my predecessor transferred
this case to this Court for disposal. In due course, copy
was furnished to the accused. Having very carefully
gone through submissions of learned lawyers of both
sides as well as case diary, this Court found sufficient
grounds for presuming that the accused person had
committed the offence U/S 4 of the POCSO Act and
accordingly, the charge was framed. The particular of

the charged offence was duly read over and explained
3|Page

6.

to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as any as
10(ten) witnesses including the alleged victim. Accused
person has been examined U/S 313 of Cr.P.C. Defense

examined none. Plea of defence is of total denial.

Point for determination is:

Whether the accused person, Shri
Bhaskar — Jyoti Kalita on
17.12.2015 at about 7-30 PM at
Police reserve, Diphu under
Diphu Police station caused
penetrative sexual assault to Miss
Debashree Malakar aged about
5(five) years and 10(ten)
months and that he _ thereby
committed an offense punishable
U/S 4 of the POCSO Act?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through the submissions
of learned lawyers of both sides as well as evidence on
record. In the very beginning, learned lawyer
appearing on behalf of the accused has submitted that
the prosecution has totally failed to prove its case
beyond all reasonable doubts. On the other hand,
refuting the aforesaid submission, learned Public
Prosecutor, Mr D.K. Deka has submitted that

prosecution has duly succeeded in establishing its case.
4|Page

Prior to forming an opinion on the rival submissions
made by the parties, I would like to give a glance at

evidence on record.

PW-1 is Shri Dhanu Malakar who has deposed in his
evidence that he is the informant of this case. He
knows the accused, Shri Bhaskar Jyoti Kalita. The
occurrence took place in the month of December,
2015. He is staying at his own house situated near
Police Deserve, Diphu with his mother, wife and
daughter. On the day of occurrence at about 7-30 PM,
he and his wife went to Diphu Civil Hospital for meeting
his relative keeping their daughter(victim) in the house
with his mother. At that time, the victim was 6 years
old. On that night at 7-45 O’ Clock, the accused over
telephone re quested him to come back home
immediately as his (informant) mother blamed him for
something. He and his wife came home back at 8 PM.
Coming back home, he found the victim crying in the
lap of his mother. His mother told him that she could
not understand as to what the accused did to the
victim(his daughter). His mother showed the pant of
the victim, worn by her at that time, which contained
stains of blood. After making several attempts to know
what happened to her, the victim disclosed the facts
which happened with the accused. On the day of
occurrence, the accused was a tenant of the informant.
The victim told him that the accused took her to his
bed and penetrated his penis in her vagina. Then the
informant went to Diphu Police Station taking the
victim with him and lodged the ejahar. Ext.1 is the

ejahar and Ext.1 (1) is his signature. Police visited the
5|Page

10.

place of occurrence and seized the blood stained half
pant of the victim and one slack vide Ext.2 and Ext.
2(1) is his signature. Police also seized one bed sheet,
one pink colour canvass shoe and one mobile handset
vide Ext.3. Ext.3 (1) is his signature. Police got the
victim examined at Diphu Civil Hospital and her
statement recorded in Diphu Court and handed over

the victim girl to him.

PW-2 is Smti. Manju Kheria who has deposed that
she is the next door neighbour of the informant. The
occurrence took place in the month of December,
2015. At that time, the accused was staying in the
house of the informant as a tenant. On the fateful
night of the occurrence at 8 O’ Clock, she heard crying
of the victim girl and hence, she went to the house of
the informant. On reaching there, she did not find the
accused. She found the victim girl crying who was
hugging the informant. On being asked, the wife of the
informant told her that the accused rapped the victim.
Thereafter, the informant went to the police station
with the victim girl. At the time of occurrence, the

victim girl was about 6 years old.

PW-3 is Miss Debashree Malakar who is the alleged
victim of this case. She deposed that she knows the
accused person. At the time of occurrence, the accused
was staying as a tenant in their house. Their house is
adjacent to the rented house where the accused was
staying. At the time of occurrence, her parents went
to the market and her grandmother was there. She

addressed the accused as uncle. The accused took her
6|Page

11.

to his room and got her seated on his bed and his
penis touched with her body. Then she started crying.
Thereafter, her grandmother came there and took her
away from the room of the accused. She told the
incident to her grandmother. On arrival of her parents,
she told everything to them. Her statement was
recorded in the Court. Ext.2 is her statement and Ext.2

(1) and 2(2) are her signatures.

PW-4, Smti. Sepali Malakar stated that the
informant is her husband. The occurrence took place
about three years ago. On the day of occurrence at
about 6-45 PM, she along with her husband went to
Diphu Civil Hospital. Her daughter, Debashree Malakar
and her mother-in-law were staying in the house. At
the time of occurrence, the victim was five years old.
She and her husband came back from hospital at about
7-45 PM. Reaching home, she found her victim
daughter crying. On being asked, the victim told that
while they were absent in the house, the accused came
and took the victim to his room and forcibly raped her.
As she noticed the victim carefully, she found the
leggings of the victim torn in two parts and the
underwear with stains of sufficient blood. Then her
mother-in-law narrated the incident to her. On their
return from hospital, they did not find the accused in
his room. At that time, a person close to the informant
over phone told them that the accused kept himself
hidden in the backside of the residence of the
Superintendent of Police. On the night itself, they went
to the police station and her husband lodged the

ejahar. Police took the victim on that very night to
7|Page

12.

Diphu Civil Hospital for her medical examination and
seized blood stained Jangia (inner half pant) and torn
Slack. In the seizure list, she put her signature.
Ext.2(2) is her signature. On the next day of the
occurrence, the Court recorded the statement of the

victim.

PW-5 is Smti. Dulu Malakar who has stated in her
testimony that the informant is her son. She knows the
accused. He was staying in their house as tenant. On
the day of occurrence in the evening hours, the
parents of the victim went to Diphu Civil Hospital. At
that time, she, the victim and an adopted girl were
present in their house. By that time, the accused came
to their house and wanted to take the victim to him
room. She told the accused that the victim was
supposed to sleep after taking meal. But the accused
ignoring her plea took the victim to his room. After a
while, she heard crying of the victim and then
proceeded to the room of the accused, but she found
both the doors closed. She questioned the accused as
to why he kept the doors closed and also asked the
reason of crying of the victim. Then the accused came
out of his room by the backdoor and she saw the
accused taking the victim girl on his shoulder. The
accused tried to pacify her crying. Accused told her
that the victim would urinate or pass stool and for that
reason, she was crying. Thereafter, she took the victim
from the lap of the accused and caused her sat on the
ground for the purpose of urination. When she tried to
remove the leggings and under wear, she found both

the pants torn and blood stained. She saw blood
8|Page

13.

14.

15.

oozing out through the passage of vagina. Then she
washed away the place of urination and took her to the
kitchen. PW-5 charged the accused as to what he did
with the victim, but the accused intimidated her by
saying that he did nothing. Then she apprised the
matter to the informant and the accused fled away
from his room. On reaching of the parents of the
victim, she handed over the victim to her father. On

being asked, the victim told everything to her father.

PW-6 is Miss Jamuna Malakar who is a Home Guard
posted at Diphu Police Station. She has stated in
testimony that on 17.12.2017 while she was
discharging her duty at the Police Station, the parents
of the victim along with her came to the police station.
She noticed blood on the pant and slack worn by the
victim. The Officer-In-Charge instructed her to go to
the Civil Hospital for medical examination of the victim.
The victim and her parents also went to the hospital.
After examination of the victim, she took them back to

the police station.

PW-7 is Shri Padmeswar Saud who has deposed in
his evidence that he submitted the charge-sheet of this
case. His predecessor-police officer completed the
investigation. He only submitted the charge-sheet
under section 377 of IPC R/W Sec.4 of the POCSO Act
against the accused person. Ext.4 is charge-sheet and
Ext.4 (1) is his signature.

PW-8 is Dr. Atreyee Goswami, medical officer has

deposed in her testimony on that 17.12.2015 while she
9|Page

16.

was working as Sr. M.& H.O. at Diphu Civil Hospital
examined Smti. Debashree Malakar in connection with
Diphu PS Case No.275/2015. On examination, she
found- no injuries in her body, hymen intact, no
spermatozoa on the vaginal swab and enoractal swab.
She also found no bleeding on the body of the victim.
Age of the victim was about 6-7 years. Ext.5 is the

medical report and Ext.5(1) is her signature.

PW-9 is Miss Jyotsna Malakar who has deposed in
his that the victim is the daughter of the informant.
On the day of occurrence at 7 PM/7-30 PM, she and
the victim were watching TV. Parents of the victim
were not present at that time. At that time, the
accused came to their room and took the victim to his
room by carrying on his lap. After a while, her mother
heard the sound of weeping of victim and she
somehow opened the bamboo door and entered into
the room of the accused. She saw the accused
persuading the victim for not crying. Then her mother
took the victim to the kitchen and on being asked, the
victim could not say anything. She was only weeping.
Thereafter, other persons came to their kitchen. In the
meantime, the accused had fled away and the parents
of the victim arrived at the house. Mother of the victim
saw blood on the pant worn by the victim. Seeing this,
they took the victim to the hospital. Regarding this
incident, the informant lodged the ejahar. Later, police
seized one bed sheet, a chappal of pink colour and a
mobile handset. Ext.3 is the seizure list and Ext.3(2) is
her signature.
10|Page

17. PW-10 is the investigating police officer, who has
almost completed the investigation. On her transfer,
she handed over the case diary to the O/C, Diphu
Police Station. During her investigation, she seized
semen of the accused from Dr. Nishil Ranjan Nunisa
which was collected from the according to used and
the under-pant containing semen of the accused. Ext.5
is seizure list and Ext.5(1) is her signature. Ext.6 is
sketch map of the place of occurrence and Ext.6(1) is

her signature.

APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE

18. Basically in such a case evidence of victim child
plays vital role. Before going for discussing factum of
the case let us first see whether victim of this case falls
in the category of child. The section 2 (d) of the
POCSO Act says that any person who is below 18 years
falls in the category of child. PW-1 and PW-4 are the
parents of victim. According to PW-1 at the time of
occurrence victim was 6 years old. According to PW-4
the victim was 5 years old. PW-8 is the medical officer
whose evidence shows that at the time of occurrence
victim was 6/7 years old. Considering all aspects it can
be said that at the time of occurrence victim was 6/7
years old. Hence it can be said that victim was a child.

19. Occurrence took place in the room of the house
belonged to the informant wherein the accused was
staying on rent. Ext-6 is the sketch map of the PO
which indicates that the occurrence took place in the
adjacent room of the dwelling house of the informant
wherein the accused was staying on rent. After

occurrence on getting information from the accused
11|Page

20.

21.

parents of the victim came home back. According to
PW-1 coming home back at 8 pm found the victim child
crying in the lap of mother and his mother showed him
the pant victim was wearing stained with blood. On
being asked for several times the victim child told him
that the accused took her to his bed and pierced on
her vagina with his penis. PW-3 is the victim who has
stated in her evidence that while her parents were not
in the house accused took her to his bed and pierced

her with his penis after making her sitting on the bed.

PW-8 is medical officer who examined the victim.
His evidence shows that no injury was seen in the body
of the victim. No spermatozoa are also detected. Ext-2
is the statement of the victim girl recorded under
section 164 CrPC. The occurrence took place on 17-12-
15 as reflected in Ext-1. Ext-2 was recorded on 01-01-
16 wherein she stated that the accused put his private
parts into the private parts. PW-4 also has stated that
sufficient blood on the pant which the victim was
wearing. Ext-2 is the seizure list which show that the
investigation officer seized one pant(Jangia) having
blood stains and one slack torn at middle part on 17-
12-15 at 10.30 pm on being produced by the mother of
the victim.

Evidence of the victim girl shows that the victim only
pierced her body with his penis. Now it has became
crystal clear that the evidence of the victim does not
corroborates the statement of victim recorded under
section 164 CrPC. Evidence of victim girl was recorded
almost after 2 Y2 years from the date of occurrence. It

is found that the evidence of the informant gets
12|Page

22.

23.

24.

corroboration from the statement of the victim girl
recorded under section 164 CrPC. Memory of the child
lasts not for long period. Hence on the aforesaid
discrepancy I feel hesitation to dis-believe statement of
victim marked as PW-2 and evidence of PW-1 that the

accused pierced the vagina of the victim with his penis.

PW-5 is the grandmother of the victim who first
noticed blood in the pant the victim was wearing in the
time of occurrence. Since medical evidence does not
supports that the victim sustained any injury, hence I
found doubt in the evidence of PW-1, PW-4 and PW-5
that they noticed blood in the pant which the victim

was wearing at the time of occurrence.

At the time of occurrence grandmother of the victim
marked as PW-5 was in the house. Her evidence clearly
shows that while parents of the victim child were not in
the house the accused took the victim to his room and
after a while she heard crying of victim. Her evidence
also shows that on hearing crying the victim while she
came out from the room he found the doors of the
room where the accused was staying were closed.
While accused was asked as to why the victim was
crying he replied that for natural job she was crying.
From the facts narrated above it can be easily inferred
that the accused did something foul with the victim.
PW-9 is the sister of the informant who was at the time
of occurrence in the house. Her evidence also shows

that the accused took the victim to his room.

“Sexual assault” is defined under section 7 of the
section of the POCSO Act which reads thus:- “7. Sexual
13|Page

25.

26.

assault.-Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch
the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other
person, or does any other act with sexual intent which
involves physical contact without penetration is said to

commit sexual assault.”

Section 8 of the Act relates to punishment for the
sexual assault which reads-" 8. Punishment for sexual
assault .-Whoever, commits sexual assault, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which shall not be less than three years but which may

extend to five years, and shall also be liable to fine.”

In the context of presumption
under Section 29 of the POCSO Act, in the
case of Amol Dudhram Barsagade .vs. State of
Maharashtra the Hon'ble Apex Court has held as
follows:-"5. The learned Additional Public
Prosecutor Shri S.S. Doifode would strenuously
contend that the statutory § presumption
under Section 29 of the POCSO Act is
absolute. The date of birth of the victim
12.10.2001 is duly proved, and is indeed not
challenged by the accused, and the victim,
therefore, was a child within the meaning
of Section 2(d) of the POCSOAct, is the
submission. The submission that the statutory
presumption under Section 29 of
the POCSO Act is absolute, must be rejected, if

the suggestion is that even if foundational facts
14|Page

27.

28.

29.

are not established, the prosecution can invoke
the — statutory — presumption. Such an
interpretation of Section 29 of the POCSO Act
would render the said provision vulnerable to
the vice of unconstitutionality. The statutory
presumption would stand activated only if the
prosecution proves the foundational facts, and
then, even if the statutory presumption is
activated, the burden on the accused is not to
rebut the presumption beyond reasonable
doubt. Suffice it if the accused is in a position to
create a serious doubt about the veracity of the
prosecution case or the accused brings on
record material to render the prosecution
version highly improbable."

In view of discussion made above I have found
that the prosecution has succeeded in establishing its
case under section 8 of the POCSO Act.

ORDER

In the result I find the accused guilty under section
8 of the POCSO Act and accordingly he is convicted.

On the point of sentence the accused is heard and
to that effect his statement is recorded. It has been
submitted by the learned lawyer appearing on behalf of
the accused person that accused person may be
punished leniently because he is only earning member
of his big family consisting of his old parents. On the
other hand learned Public Prosecutor Mr. D.K Deka has
submitted that the accused needs to be punished as

per the provisions of law.
15|Page

30.

-Regarding object of the POCSO Act, the Hon'ble Apex
has observed in case of Fera v. State (NCT of
Delhi) reported in “(2017) 15 SCC 133” thus :-
“20. The purpose of referring to the Statement of
Objects and Reasons and the Preamble _ of
the Pocso Act is to appreciate that the very purpose of
bringing a legislation of the present nature is to protect
the children from the sexual assault, harassment and
exploitation, and to secure the best interest of the
child. On an avid and diligent discernment of the
Preamble, it is manifest that it recognises the necessity
of the right to privacy and confidentiality of a child to
be protected and respected by every person by all
means and through all stages of a judicial process
involving the child. Best interest and well-being are
regarded as being of paramount importance at every
stage to ensure the healthy physical, emotional,
intellectual and social development of the child. There
is also a stipulation that sexual exploitation and sexual
abuse are heinous offences and need to be effectively
addressed. The Statement of Objects and Reasons
provides regard being had to the _ constitutional
mandate, to direct its policy towards securing that the
tender age of children is not abused and _ their
childhood is protected against exploitation and they are
given facilities to develop in a healthy manner and in
conditions of freedom and dignity. There is also a
mention which is quite significant that interest of the
child, both as a victim as well as a witness, needs to be
protected. The stress is on providing child-friendly
procedure. Dignity of the child has been laid immense

emphasis in the scheme of legislation. Protection and
16|Page

interest occupy the seminal place in the text of
the Pocso Act.”.

31.In Surjit Singh Vs. Nahara Ram and others
(2004)6 SCC 513=AIR 2004 SC 4122 it was held
“The law regulates social interests, arbitrates
conflicting claims and demands. Security of persons
and property of the people is an essential function of
the State. It could be achieved through instrumentality
of criminal law. Undoubtedly there is a cross-cultural
conflict where living law must find answer to new
challenges and the courts are required to mould the
sentencing system to meet the challenges. The
contagion of lawlessness would undermine social order
and lay it in ruins. Protection of society and stamping
out criminal proclivity must be the object of law which
must be achieved by imposing appropriate sentence.
Therefore, laws as a corner stone of the edifice of
‘order’ should meet the challenges confronting the
society. In operating the sentencing system, law should
adopt the corrective machinery or the deterrence
based on factual matrix. Therefore, undue sympathy to
impose inadequate sentence would do more harm to
the justice system to undermine the public system in
the efficacy of law and society could not long endure
under such serious threats. It is, therefore, the duty of
every court to award proper sentence having regard to
the nature of the offence and the manner in which it

was executed or committed, etc.”

32. I have very carefully gone through the submissions
duly advanced by the learned lawyers of both sides on

the point of sentence as well as the observation made
17|Page

in the case law cited above. Court cannot award
sentence whimsically. Sentencing of the any accused
person needs to be based on a reasonable policy. In
the instant case accused person is a Police Constable
and as such he knows the consequence of commission
of any offence. The facts of the case clearly shows that
he committed the alleged offence with cool brain and
plan. Taking all aspects into consideration especially
object of the POCSO Act I feel hesitation to extend any

leniency in sentencing the accused person.

33. In view of the discussion made above I do hereby
order the accused person to suffer RI of 4 (Four) years
and a fine of Rs. 2000/- i/d SI of 3(three) months. Set
off earlier detention period. Let the fined money be
paid to the informant if realized. Let a certified copy of
the Judgment and order be supplied to the accused
person at free of cost. Let a copy of this Judgment be
sent to the District Magistrate, Karbi Anglong, Diphu in
terms of section 365 of the CrPC. Considering the
nature of the instant case no order in the terms of
section 357 A of the CrPC has been passed.
Accordingly this case is disposed of.

34. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this
18 December, 2018 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi Anglong,
18|Page

Dictation taken and transcribed

by me.

Stenographer Grade-I.

APPENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses

PW-1 is Shri Dhanu Malakar
PW-2 is Smti. Manju Kheria
PW-3 is Miss Debashree Malakar
PW-4 is Smti. Sepali Malakar
PW-5 is Smti. Dulu Malakar
PW-6 is Miss Jamuna Malakar
PW-7 is Shri Padmeswar Saud
PW-8 is Dr. Atreyee Goswami
PW-9 is Miss Jyotsna Malakar
PW-10 is Smt. Dipmonia Dihingia

Prosecution Exhibited

Ext-1 is FIR

Ext-2 is Statement of the Victim/ Seizure list
Ext-3 is Seizure list

Ext-4 is Charge Sheet

Ext-5 is Medical Examination Report

Ext-6 is Sketch Map

Defence Witnesses : Nil

Defence Exhibited : Nil

(Md. A.U Ahmed, AJS)

Special Judge,
Diphu , Karbi Anglong
19|Page
