eCourtis copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC)::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,
Addl. Special Judge (FTC),
Kokrajhar.

SPECIAL CASE No.03/2019
U/S. 8 of the Protection of Children

from Sexual Offences Act, 2012

STATE OF ASSAM
Vs

1.Opiul Sk
S/O. Lt. Jasumuddin Sk
Village- No.1 Guwabari

2. Kartik Barman

S/O. Sri Deben Barman
Village- Guwabari

Both are P.S. Gossaigaon
District- Kokrajhar

beveeeee Accused persons
Appearance: -

Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghosh, Special P.P

Learned Counsel for the Mr. Iqbal Hussain, Advocate
defence

Charge framed on 15.02.2019

Evidence recorded on 08.03.2019; 29.03.2019;
12.04.2019; 03.05.2019;
07.06.2019

Argument heard on 30.07.2019

Judgment pronounced 09.08.2019
on

JUDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution is that on 7.11.2018, the
victim, lodged an FIR at Grahampur Police Out Post alleging that
on 06.11.2018, at about 4-30 PM, she was alone in her house. At
that time, accused Opiul Sk came to her house and asked for oil.

The victim gave oil to the accused and went inside her house.
eCourtis copy

Later, the accused entered into her residence and attempted to
commit rape on her. The victim screamed, as a result of which

the nearby people gathered and the accused was apprehended.

2. The FIR was sent to Gossaigaon Police Station. On receipt
of the FIR, a case U/S 120(B)/448/376/511/506/34 IPC read with
Section 8 of the POCSO Act was registered and investigated.
After completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was laid
against the accused Opiul Sk and Kartick Barman for offences

U/S 120(B)/448/506/34 IPC R/W Section 8 of POCSO Act.

3. The case was transferred to this Court for disposal. The
accused persons were summoned and after furnishing copies to
them, charge U/S 8 of the POCSO Act was framed against them

to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

4. In the course of trial prosecution examined 7 witnesses. At
the closure of prosecution evidence, the accused persons were
examined U/S 313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total
denial and they adduced the evidence of accused Kartick

Barman.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused persons in furtherance of their
common intention attempted to commit penetrative

sexual assault on the victim?
DECISION AND REASONS :

5. PW 1 is the victim of this case. She deposed that in the
month of November, 2018, accused persons were working in her

house as mason. In the evening hours, she was alone in her
eCourtis copy

house and was preparing food. At that time, accused Opiul
Sheikh asked her for some mustard oil to rub in his hand which
she gave. Thereafter, she went back to cooking. Suddenly,
accused Opiul Sheikh came inside her kitchen and grabbed her
from behind touching her breasts. She screamed and tried to
come out of the grab of the accused Opiul Sheikh. Hearing her
scream, her neighbour Subhalini Tudu, came to her house.
Thereafter, some other villagers came and apprehended accused

Opiul Sheikh.

6. In her cross-examination, she deposed that she does not
know the name of the scribe of the FIR. Pw 1 denied the defence
suggestions with reference to omissions appearing in her
statements, made under Section 161 CrPC. Pw 1 also denied the
suggestion that she misunderstood accused Opiul Sheikh when
he asked for mustard oil. It was also suggested to pw 1 that it
was she who had slapped the accused Opiul though the slap did
not fall in his body. There were some other suggestions to pw 1

but she denied each of those suggestions.

7. Pw 2 xxx, is the mother of the victim. She deposed that at
the time of occurrence she was away from home. When she
returned home, she saw a crowd of people. She then asked her
daughter as to what had happened. Her daughter informed that
accused Opiul had asked her for some mustard oil which she
gave but a little while later the said accused came and grabbed
her from behind. Pw 2 also deposed that accused was handed
over to Dingdinga O.P and on the following day my daughter

lodged the FIR.
eCourtis copy

8. In cross-examination, pw 2 deposed that when she
returned home, she saw a huge crowd consisting of more than
30 people. She deposed that she did not ask Subhalini Tudu
anything about the incident. She also deposed that she also did
not ask anything from the neighbouring people and also the
persons present at that time. She admitted that Opiul and
Kartick had come to our residence for the first time on that day
for mason works. She denied the defence suggestions made to

her.

9. PW3 Sri Solomon Soren deposed that he knows the
informant. He deposed that on the date of occurrence, at about
4 PM, while he was going for grazing his cows, he heard noise of
people near the residence of the informant. When he went there,
he saw accused Opiul Sheikh has been apprehended by the
victim and others. On inquiry with the victim she told that
accused Opiul had grabbed her hands. pw 3 also deposed that
he then asked the accused Opiul about the incident to which he

replied that he had grabbed the hands of victim.

10. In cross examination, PW3 deposed that he was alone
when he had gone to bring his cows from the grazing field. He
deposed that when he reached the place of occurrence, he had
seen Sivlal and Subhasini apart from the victim. Pw 3 also
deposed that the house of Nikudin Tudu is situated at a distance
of 45 ft near the residence of victim but had not seen Nikudin
Tudu and his wife in the place of occurrence. He denied the
defence suggestion that he had not stated before police that on

inquiry from the accused Opiul Sheikh about the incident he
eCourtis copy

replied that he had grabbed the hands of victim. The accused
Opiul was not tied up in tree but his hands were tied up with a

rope.

11. PW4 Sri Shiblal Hasda deposed that in the month of
November, during Kalipuja, in the evening hours, he was
returning from paddy field. When he reached the residence of
victim, she called me and informed me that accused Opiul
Sheikh had grabbed her hands. At that time, Subhasini was also
present. Pw 4 deposed that he then inquired with the accused
regarding the incident and he admitted that he had grabbed the
victim. After a while, Solomon also came to the place of

occurrence and later many villagers also assembled.

12. In cross examination PW4 deposed that at the time when
he reached the place of occurrence he had seen only the victim,
Subhasini and accused Opiul Sheikh. Soloman came after him.
Pw 4 denied the defence suggestion that he did not state in his

police statement that he had held the accused.

13. PW5 Sri Luk Hasda deposed that on 6.11.2018, he heard
noise from the residence of xxx, father of victim, during evening
hours. He went to the residence of xxx, father of victim. He saw
the victim at the outside of her home. On inquiry she told that
accused Opiul Sheikh attempted to rape her. Accused Opiul was
sitting on the bench and there were some other people around

him. Later, police came and took away the accused Opiul.

14. In cross examination, pw 5 denied the suggestion that he
did not state before police that victim informed him that accused

attempted to commit rape on her.
eCourtis copy

15. Pw 6 Subhalini Tudu deposed that the occurrence took
place on 6.11.2019, at about 4 p.m. She deposed that heard
loud scream coming from the residence of victim, her neighbour.
She rushed to the residence of victim and saw accused Opiul. On
inquiry, she came to know from victim that initially accused
Opiul asked her mustard oil for cleaning his hand which she
gave. Thereafter, the victim went into the kitchen but accused
Opiul followed her and grabbed her with intent to commit rape

on her.

16. In cross examination she deposed that Elenmary Soren’s
father and my mother are own brother and sister. She denied the
suggestion that she is deposing falsely. She also denied the
suggestion that accused had asked for mustard oil for use but
the communication was misunderstood by victim indicating
sexual overtones and that is why the victim had beaten the

accused Opiul though the strike did not touch the body of Opiul.

17. PW7 Sri Mojen Barman is the Investigating Officer. He
deposed about the sual aspects of investigation conducted by

him in this case.

18. In cross examination PW7 deposed that at the time when
he visited the place of occurrence lots of people were already
there. He had not recorded the statement of Hopna, Einstain
Hembrom, Sonaton. He had found Opiul Sheikh in injured
condition. He deposed that he had not recorded the statement of
the brother and sister of PW1. He deposed that he knows that
victim is the Secretary of Santhal Student Union. Pw 7 confirmed

the contradiction that PW1 did not state in the statement of U/S
eCourtis copy

161 CrPC that Subhasini Tudu came to her house when she
shouted. Pw 7 also deposed that PW1 did not specifically state in

the statement U/S 161 of Cr.PC that accused touched her breast.

19. DW1 Sri Kartik Barman, one of the accused in this case,
deposed that he has filed a petition in this case to depose as
defence witness. He deposed that about 7 months back, he had
gone to a village alongwith Opiul Sheikh for constructing an RCC
tank. After finishing the work they were cleaning themselves. At
that time, at about 4 PM, accused Opiul Sheikh asked for some
mustard oil from the girl in that house. The girl, who is the
informant of this case, became furious and chased both of us
with a lathi. The girl had also slapped Opiul Sheikh before
chasing them. Dw 1 deposed that he got scared and ran away
from that place and informed the family members of accused
Opiul Sheikh. Later, he along with some villagers went to
Gossaigaon Police Station and informed them about the matter.
A police team from Gossaigaon Police Station had gone to the
residence of the girl, but by then accused Opiul Sheikh was
taken to Dingdinga Police out post. Dw 1 deposed that accused
Opiul Sheikh had not entered into the residence of the informant
and that he had not attempted to commit rape or touch the body

of the informant.

20. Learned Addl. P.P gave certain suggestions to dw 1 but he

denied those suggestions.

21. The evidence, as reproduced above, would establish that
there is absolutely no material against accused Kartick Barman

in the commission of offence as alleged. The evidence points
eCourtis copy

towards the involvement of accused Opiul Sheikh only. The plea
taken by the accused Opiul Sheikh, both in the cross-
examination of prosecution witnesses and the evidence adduced
by dw 1 is that he had only asked for mustard oil to rub his
hands and this expression was misunderstood by the victim as
having sexual overtones and the entire episode thereafter was a
result of mistake of fact. Now, if the accused succeeds in
probabilising his plea he can be said to have discharged his onus
and in such circumstances he would be entitled to an acquittal

on benefit of doubt.

22. Now, so far as prosecution evidence is concerned, pw 1 is
the only witness for herself so far as the allegation of accused
grabbing her is concerned. a contradiction appearing in the
evidence of pw 1 was emphasised by the learned defence
Counsel and he argued that pw 1 cannot be believed to sustain a
conviction. Pw 1 deposed in her evidence that accused grabbed
her from behind touching her breasts. However, what is missing
in the statement under Section 161 CrPC is touching of breasts.
There remains no disparity or omission regarding the statement
that accused grabbed the victim with intent to commit
penetrative sexual assault. These omissions therefore cannot be

termed as material and hence cannot amount to contradictions.

23. Pw 1 admits the defence suggestion that accused asked
for mustard oil and this incident took place outside the residence
of victim. However, the subsequent at of accused following the
victim and grabbing her, took place inside the home of victim.

The victim has deposed that she was alone in her house. The
eCourtis copy

mother of the victim confirms the fact that victim was alone.
Thus, according to the evidence of pw 1, accused entered into
the home of pw 1 while she was alone, an allegation disputed by
the accused. In this regard, pw 6 Subhalini Tudu, deposed that
she heard a loud scream coming from the residence of victim,
her neighbour. She rushed to the residence of victim and saw
accused Opiul. The cross-examination of these two prosecution
evidence has not been able to impeach their credibility on this
particular fact that accused Opiul Sheikh entered inside the
residence of victim. Now, once the prosecution evidence
establishes that accused Opiul Sheikh was found inside the
residence of victim, a culpable intention can be attributed to the
accused for he had no reasons to enter into the residence
knowing that the victim is alone in her house. Section 29 of the
POCSO Act provides that the evidence of pw 1, that accused
grabbed her and touched her breasts, raises a legal presumption
regarding the veracity of such statement and convincing
evidence to the contrary would be required from the accused to
rebut such presumption. A reading of the defence suggestion
coupled with the defence evidence does not probabilise the plea
that entire episode, leading to the present prosecution, was a

result of misunderstanding.

24. In the result, | find that the prosecution has been able to
establish the charge against the accused Opiul Sheikh that by
his act he committed sexual assault on the victim, a minor girl,

made punishable under Section 8 of the POCSO Act.
10
eCourtis copy

25. | have heard the accused on the point of sentence. The
accused submitted that he is married and has children to look
after. The accused also submits that he comes from a poor

background and hence he pleaded mercy.

26. Considering the nature of offence committed by the
accused | believe a sentence of 3 years of rigorous imprisonment
would meet the ends of justice.
ORDER
Accused Kartick Barman is acquitted of the charge under
Section 8 of the POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.
Accused Opiul Sheikh is convicted for the offence under
Section 8 of the POCSO Act and sentenced to rigorous
imprisonment for 3 years with payment of fine of Rs 5,000
in default of payment of fine, to undergo imprisonment for
3 months.
A free copy of the judgment be furnished to the convict
Opiul Sheikh.
A recommendation is made to the District Legal Services
Authority, Kokrajhar for payment of adequate
compensation to the victim.
A copy of this judgment be sent to District Magistrate,
Kokrajhar.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court

Dictated and corrected by me:

Addl. Special Judge (FTC) Addl. Special Judge (FTC)
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
Prosecution Exhibits:-
Exhibit-1
Exhibit-2
Exhibit-3

Exhibit-4

Prosecution witnesses: -
1. Pwl -
2. Pw 2-
3. Pw 3-
4. Pw 4-
5. Pw 5-
6. Pw 6-

7. Pw 7-

Defence Evidence-
1. DW1
Court evidence

1. Nil

11
eCourtis copy

APPENDIX

FIR
Statement
Seizure list

Charge sheet

Victim

Mother of victim
Sri Solomon Soren
Sri Shiblal Hasda
Sri Luk Hasda

Ms. Subhalini Tudu

Sri Mojen Barman

Kartick Barman

Addl. Special Judge (FTC),
Kokrajhar
