CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 46/16

Informant: — Sri Rajen Munda,
S/o- Late Jagru Munda,
R/o- Tetunbari Gaon,
PS- Moran,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Babatu Munda,
S/o- Sri Ramesh Munda,
R/o- Bipon Habigaon,
PS- Demow,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. RS Ekka, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 46/16
G.R. Case No. 510/16

State of Assam
‘i Vs-

Sri Babatu Munda

Charges: Under Section 366-A IPC.

Date of evidence on : 25-05-17.
Date of argument : 25-05-17.
Date of Judgment —_: 25-05-17.

JUDGMENT

1) The prosecution case as portrayed by the First Information Report is that on
18-02-16, the victim X went amiss. Then the victim's father Sri Rajen Bhumij
lodged an ejahar with the police. The police registered a Moran PS Case No.
54/16 under Section 366-A IPC and SI Dharmeswar Borgohain embarked
upon the investigation. He recorded the statements of the witnesses and
recovered the victim. He forwarded the victim for medical examination and he
also prepared Sketch-Map of the place of occurrence. After finding prima
facie materials against the accused, he submitted the Charge-Sheet.

2) On appearance of the accused, charge was framed under Section 366-A IPC.
The accused abjured his guilt and claimed innocence.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION:

3) On the backdrop of the rival contention proponed at the bar, the following

point is apposite for decision:
1. Whether the accused induced the victim X to go with him with
intent that she may be forced to illicit intercourse?
DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

4) The complainant testified as PW-1 that about a year ago, his daughter went

missing from his house. Then they searched for the victim. The accused is

also related to him and is his nephew. When they could not find their
5)

6)

7)

8)

daughter, he lodged the ejahar Ext. 1 where Ext. 1(1) is his signature. Police
recovered his daughter. They took custody of their daughter and brought
their daughter to their house, but after a few days, his daughter again went
along with the accused person.

Similarly, the complainant's wife Smti. Nami Munda also testified as PW-2 that
about a year ago, her daughter eloped with the accused and then a case was
lodged and her daughter was recovered. She brought back her daughter to
her house, but her daughter again went away with the accused person. Her
daughter is at present 17/18 years old.

The victim X testified as PW-3 that the accused is her husband and the
complainant is her father. When she eloped with the accused, her father
lodged this case. The police recovered her from the accused person and
handed her over to her parents. She returned to her paternal house and
again after a few days, she eloped with the accused.

If we evaluate the evidence, it is clear that the victim eloped with the
accused not once, but twice. The victim went with the accused on her own
volition. As the victim eloped with the accused twice, he cannot be fastened
with the guilt of kidnapping or abducting the victim. Moreover, the victim
stated that she is 21 (twenty-one) years at present and the incident took
place on 18-02-16. What can be deciphered is that the victim was a major
and she went with the accused on her own volition.

There is no evidence against the accused. The prosecution failed to prove
that the accused induced the victim to go with him or kidnapped the victim or
forcefully committed sexual assault on the victim. Thereby the accused is
acquitted from the charges under Section 366-A IPC on benefit of doubt and
is set at liberty forthwith.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 25" day of
May, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 Sri Rajen Munda;
2. PW-2 Smti. Nami Munda; and
3. PW-3 The victim X.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Ejahar.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
