SESS CASE NO 18 (DH) OF 2015

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, DHEMAJI.
Present: Shri A. Hazarika, A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge,
Dhemaji,
JUDGMENT IN SESSIONS CASE NO. 18 (DH) of 2015.

(G.R. Case No.820/2014 (GMK); Gogamukh P.S. Case No.195/2014 Under Sections-376(D)/109 of
the Indian Penal Code)

The State of Assam
- Versus —
(1) Shri Kalyan Morang
(2) ShriPrasanta Khanikar ee eneseeseneeees Accused Persons
Committing Magistrate:-
Shri L.K. Sarmah,
Judicial Magistrate, 1* Class,
Dhemaji.
Appearance:
Shri P.C. Boruah,
Pupeprosecuter Be necetennieecniinn For the State

Shri N. Buragohain,

Derencecounsel a aia For the Accused persons
Date of committal : 20-02-2015
Date of Charge : 30-04-2015.
Date of prosecution evidence : 14-07-2016, 29-11-2016.
Date of recording Statement of Accused : 07-01-2017.
Date of defence evidence : Nil.
9 Date of arguments : 17.03.2017
ae Date of Judgment : 30-03-2013.

i ial sting
Peeerst
SESS CASE NO 18 (DH) OF 2015

JUDGMENT
Case of the Prosecution:

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 29-11-2014 complainant- Smt. Jatshna Barman, W/O
Basanta Barman, R/O VIII.- Gogamukh Maj Gaon , P.S. Gogamukh, District- Dhemaji lodged an FIR
to the effect that on 28-11-2014 at about 6 P.M. the accused persons- Shri Kalyan Morang and
other two unknown friends of Kalyan Morang came to the house of her son-Dilip Barman and
accused Kalyan Morang and his another unknown friend committed rape on her minor grand
daughter-Smti ‘Xx’, aged about 8 years, gagging her mouth with cloth. It is alleged in the FIR that
in order to commit the crime, the accused-Kalyan Morang and his friends drove out the
complainant from the house. It is also alleged in the FIR that the accused-Kalyam Morang and
other two unknown persons managed Smt. Maina Barman, second wife of Dilip Barman, by giving
Rs.600/- to her. On the basis of the said FIR a case being Gogamukh P.S Case No 195 of 2014
was registered u/s 376 (D) of the Indian Penal Code read with Section 44 of the POCSP Act.

2. Thereafter, the case was investigated and on the basis of the materials available, charge-
sheet was submitted under Sections- 376(D)of the Indian Penal Code r/w sec. 4 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 r/w Sec. 109 of I.P.C. against the accused persons- Shri
Kalyan Morang, Prasanat Khanikar , Shri Bhaskar Doley and Smt. Maina Barman

3. The case being exclusively triable by the Sessions Court the same was committed to the Court
of Sessions, Dhemaji by the learned Judicial Magistrate, 1* Class, Dhemaji on 20-02-2015.

Charge:

4. Charge Under Section 4 of the Protection of Chiuldren from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was
framed against the accused persons-Shri Kalyan Morang and Shri Prasdanta Khanikar by the court
on 30-04-2015 to which the accused persons pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. The other
accused Shri Bhaskar Doley and Smt. Maina Barman were discharged by the Court.

Evidence:
5. To prove the guilt of the accused, Prosecution examined three witnesses.

5.(a) PW-1 is the victim ‘Xx’. She has stated that she knew both the accused persons present in the
dock. At present, she is aged about 10 years. Her grandmother had filed the case against both the
accused persons. Her grandmother tutored her to give statement before the police as well as in
the court. The accused persons did nothing to her

This Defence declined to cross examine the witnesses

5.(b) PW2 is Shri Dilip Barman who has evidenced that he knew the accused persons present in
the dock. Victim ‘Xx’ is his daughter who is now 10 years old. She is reading in Class-IV. The
incident was of about 2 years back. Accused-Kalyan Morang and Prasanta Khanikar came to his
house. Bhaskar Doley also came to his house. He, Bhaskar went to see another house. Accused
Kalyan and Prasanta remained in his house. After a short while, he came back home and then his
mother informed him that Kalyan and Prasanta committed rape on his daughter ‘Xx’. On being
asked, victim ‘X’ told him nothing. His mother had filed the case at the police station. Police came
for investigation and recorded his satatement. Victim’s medical was done.

During the cross-examination, this witness has stated that his daughter ‘Xx’ had not told him
that the accused persons committed rape on her. Later on, he came to know that his mother had

filed the case falsely.
2
ob S

Bhemeli
SESS CASE NO 18 (DH) OF 2015

5 (c).PW-3 Smti Jatshna Barman has deposed that she knew the accused persons present in the
dock. She also knew the victim ‘X’. She is her grand-daughter. She (PW3) had filed the case. Her
neighbours told her that while she was absent in her house, the accused persons raped the victim
‘xX’. When she asked the victim X about it, she replied that nobody had done anything to her. She
gave her thumb impression in the FIR. She does not know what was written in the FIR. At the
time of incident, victim ‘X’ was 8 years old.

Defence declined to cross-examine PW3.
Statement of Accused under Section 313 Cr.PC & Defence Evidence:

6. The statement of the accused persons Shri Kalyan Morang and Shri Prasanta Khanikar was
recorded under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on 07-01-2017 where the accused
persons denied the charge and stated that they are innocent.

Point For Determination

7. The moot point for determination is as to whether the accused persons- Shri Kalyan Morang
and Prasanta Khanikar committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim ‘X’ and thus committing
an offence punishable under Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ?

Discussion and Conclusions

8. Ihave heard Shri N. Buragohain , the learned counsel for the defence as well as the Shri P.C.
Boruah, the learned Public Prosecutor. I have also perused the evidence and other materials on
record.

9. On perusal of the evidence on record, it is seen that PW-1 (X) the victim has clearly evidenced
that the accused persons had not done anything with her and that her grand-mother (PW3) had
filed a case against the accused and also told her what to say before the police and the
Magistrate. Even the evidence of PW2, father of the victim (PW1) would go to show that even
though the accused Kalyan Morang and Prasanta Khanikar had gone to his house along with one
Bhaskar Doloi and he had gone out with said Bhaskar Doloi, while Kalyan and Prasanta had stayed
back in his house. He has also on asking the victim ‘x’, she had not told him anything. PW3 the
informant who is the grand-mother of the victim ‘X’, has evidenced that the neighbours had told
her that while she was absent, the accused persons had raped the victim ‘X’. But when she asked
the victim ‘Xx’ herself, she was told that nothing was done to her. From the aforesaid evidence of
the witnesses, it is seen that the evidence of PW3 who had filed the FIR, is based upon hear-say
and cannot be believed. Moreover, PW1 the victim herself categorically stated that the accused
had not done anything with her. Even the evidence of PWs- 2 and 3 clearly indicates that the
victim had told them that the accused did not do anything with her. Therefore, it may safely be
concluded that the FIR was filed without going through the fact. PW3 has also stated that she
does not know what is written in the FIR and she only gave her thumb impression. An illiterate
person having filed the FIR without knowing the contents thereof, the case of the prosecution,
cannot be held to hold any ground. However, considering the age of the informant who is about
70 years, this Court refrained from passing any order implicating the informant.

It may also be noted here that the prosecution has not laid any other evidence that may
indicate the complicity of the accused in the commission of the said offences. Therefore, in view of
the absence of any cogent, reliable witnesses supporting the case of the prosecution, and
considering the evidence of the victim as well as other prosecution witnesses who have clearly
stated that the accused had not committed any offence, this Court is of the considered view that
the prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused persons.

3 ently shitayi =
SESS CASE NO 18 (DH) OF 2015

10. On perusal of the evidence on record and in view of the aforesaid discussion this Court is of
the censidered opinion that the prosecution has failed to prove the charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act
against the accused Shri Kalyan Morang and Shri Prasanta Khanikar.

Order:

11. The accused persons Shri Kalyan Morang and Shri Prasanta Khanikar are acquitted of the
charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act

12. Bail bond executed by the accused person and surety are extended for next six months as per
the provision of Section 437 A of Cr.P.C.

13. Considering the facts of the instant case, this matter is not referred to District Legal Services
Authority for granting compensation u/s 357A Code of Criminal Procedure.

14. Judgment is pronounced in open court. Case is disposed on contest

Given under my hand and seal on this the 30" day of March, 2017.

(A. Hazarika )

Ae

 

Dhemaji,
T
Dictated & an by oe -
emia
Sessions Judge,

Dhemaji.

Transcribed & Typed by me :-

(B.K. Buragohain)

Steno. Grade-I.
Appendix:
Prosecution Witnesses
P.W. 1 - the victim ‘Xx’
P.W. 2 - Shri Dilip Barman ,
PW-3 - Smt. Jatshna Barman (complainant)

Defence Witnesses:-
None

Prosecution Exhibits:
None

Defence Exhibits :

None

SESS CASE NO 18 (DH) OF 2015

( Shri Pe. )

Sessions Judge,

Dhemaji.
