1
IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON. ASSAM
PRESENT : Smti. H. D. Bhuyan,
Special Judge,
Nagaon.
SPECIAL (T-2) CASE NO. 01(N) OF 2013
Under section 8 of POCSO Act
G.R. Case No. 1688 of 2013.
State of Assam sec eeeaneeesaees Complainant

-Versus —

Sahadev Das baneeeeaees Accused Person

ADVOCATES WHO APPEARED IN THIS CASE

For the Complainant :Smti. Deepa Saikia,
Additional Public Prosecutor.
For the accused : Sri Rafique Ullah,
Advocate.
Date of evidence :29-03-14,17-07-14,

05-01-15

Date of Argument : 09-03-2015.

Date of Judgment : 18 - 03-2015
2

J UDG M EN T
1. The prosecution case in nutshell is that on last 05-10-2013 the
informant, namely, Sri Nibash Das, resident of village Baliram gaon, under
Jamunamukh Police Station had lodged FIR before the O/C of Jamunamukh P.S.
to the effect that on last 04-10-2013 Friday at 10:30 a.m., accused Sahadev Das
by inducing his minor daughter, namely, victim-X took her to his house and
taking the advantage of absence of other family members, committed sexual
assault on her. He further added in the F.I.R that at that time he was_ in his
shop at Baliram gaon Tiniali while his wife was busy in the house with her house-
hold works and just then, his daughter came home crying from the house of
accused and _ informed about the incident of sexual assault to his wife, i.e. the

mother of the victims . Hence, the F.I.R.

2. On receiving the F.I.R., the police of Jamunamukh P.S. registered
the Jamunamukh P.S. Case No. 51/13 U/s. 8 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 against the accused person and started usual
investigation thereon. Upon completion of the investigation police laid charge
sheet in the case U/s. 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,

2012 . Thereafter, the case was _ received in this Court for trial.

3. On being produced in this Court, the accused was furnished with
necessary copies as required U/s. 207 of Cr.P.C by my learned predecessor who
also framed a formal charge U/s. 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 against accused Sahadev Das, after perusal of police papers
U/s. 173 of Cr.P.C. and also after hearing the learned counsels for both sides.
The charge was also read over and explained to the accused person and he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During trial of the case the prosecution side examined altogether
7 PWs while the defence side did not adduce any evidence. The statement of

accused u/s 313 was also recorded.

5 After hearing arguments for both sides, I hereby proceed to

deliver my judgment in this case.
3

6. Now, the point for decision before me are as follows :-

i) Whether on last 04-01-2013 at about 10:30 a.m. at village
Baliram gaon under Jamunamukh P.S., the accused person
committed sexual assault on the victim girl ‘X’ by detaining her in
his house with intent to commit sexual act with her and thereby
committed an offence punishable U/s. 8 of the POSCO Act?

7. My findings and reasons thereof are as follows :-

During trial of the case the prosecution side examined altogether
7 PWs while the defence side did not adduce any evidence. Now, let me

consider what are the evidence adduced by these PWs.

P.W. 1 is the victim girl namely ‘Xx’. She was examined without
oath. She deposed before this court that one month ago from the date of her
deposition, one day at about 9 A.M. the accused kissed her at his house and as
such, she came back to her house and informed the matter to her mother. She
further deposed that she was brought before a Magistrate who recorded her
statement wherein she put her signatures vide Ext.1(1), Ext.1(2), 1(3) and
1(4) . In her cross-examination she stated that accused is her next door neighbor
and she generally used to go to the house of accused for watching television
along with other children of the locality. This witness further deposed in her

cross-examination that she had also made similar statement before Magistrate.

P.W.2, Smti. Sumitra Das is the mother of the victim ‘Xx’. She
deposed that she knows accused Sahadev Das and the incident took place on the
day of Durga Puja (Mahalaya) in the morning when she was present in her own
house. She further deposed that on that day her daughter went to the house of
accused to watch television as usual but after sometimes, her daughter returned
back home crying and told her that accused kissed her. P.W. 2 further deposed
that on enquiry, the accused told that her daughter is a little girl and out of
affection he kissed her but in the meantime many people of the locality gathered

there and informed the matter to police. Smti Sumitra Das further deposed that
4

as instructed by the public her husband filed the case. In her cross-examination
this witness deposed that she regards the accused as her father-in-law and the
kiss given by the accused to her daughter was nothing but a sign of love and
affection towards her daughter and out of misunderstanding her husband has

filed the instant case.

P.W.3, Sri Nibhash Das is the complainant and father of the victim. He
deposed that he lodged the FIR vide Ext.2 with his signature Ext.2(1). This
witness further deposed that one day during puja at about 12 mid day when he
came home, saw many people gathered in his house and_ they asked him to
lodge the FIR against the accused and hence, he lodged the FIR. P.W.3 Sri
Nibash Das also deposed in his cross-examination that contents of the FIR is not
known to him as it was written by somebody else and out of the influence of the
public he lodged the FIR. This witness further deposed in his cross-examination
that now he maintains a good relationship with the accused and does not want

to proceed against the accused.

P.W.4 Sri Hinden Das deposed in his evidence that at the time of incident
he was at market and on hearing hue and cries he arrived at the place of
occurrence and he came to know from Joydev, Indreswar and others that
accused did some bad works with the victim. P.W.4 further deposed that he

informed the police and police took away the accused.

P.W.5 Sri Rajesh Das deposed in his evidence that before 8/9 months
back from the date of his deposition, one day when he was returning from
market at around 7.30/8.00 p.m., he heard hue and cry in the house of
informant and when went there, saw many people gathering there. He further
deposed that he heard that the daughter of Nibhas Das was raped by the

accused and later on police came and took away the accused.

P.W.6 Sajjal Das deposed in his evidence that he knows the accused,
informant and the victim. P.W.6 further deposed that before 5/6 months back

from the date of deposition, when he came home from his work, heard hue and
5

cries in the house of accused and went there and heard nothing about the

incident.

P.W.7- S.I. Sekhauddin Ahmed deposed in his evidence that on last
05-10-13 while he was serving as Sub-Inspector of Police at Jamunamukh P.S.,
the O/C of P.S ,Sri Someswar Bora received the FIR from informant Nibash Das
and after registering the case on the said FIR, vide Jamunamukh P.S. Case No.
51/13 u/s 8 of the POCSO Act, this P.W. was entrusted to investigate the case.
This witness also deposed that before filing of the FIR, on a telephonic
information, the Jamuamukh P.S. GDE No.57 dated 04-10-13 was recorded and
accordingly, he visited the place of occurrence, examined the witnesses, arrested
the accused person. His further evidence is that after receiving the FIR on
05-10-13, he recorded the statement of victim and two other witnesses,
prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence vide Ext.3, produced the
victim before Magistrate and get her statement recorded by the magistrate and
finally submitted charge-sheet against accused Sahadeb Das u/s 8 of the
POCSO Act vide Ext.4 and Ext.4(1) is his signature.

8. Thus, after careful analysis of the evidence in record, it appears
that the P.W.3 who is the informant and father of the victim stated in his
evidence that one day during puja at about 12 mid day when he came home,
saw many people gathered in his house and _ they asked him to lodge the FIR
against the accused, hence he lodged the FIR. The P.W.2, Smti. Sumitra Das
who is the mother of the victim ‘X’ deposed that on the day of occurrence, her
daughter went to the house of accused to watch television as usual but after
sometime her daughter returned back home crying and told her that accused
kissed her. Close to the hill of the evidence of the P.W.2, the P.W.1, who is the
victim of this case while examining without oath deposed before this court that
one month ago from the date of her deposition, one day at about 9 A.M. the
accused kissed her at his house and as such, she came back to her house and
informed the matter to her mother. The learned Addl. Public Prosecutor during
argument submits that upon the facts and circumstances of the case and
evidence adduced by the P.Ws., it is clearly established that on the day of

occurrence, the accused person committed sexual assault on the victim girl ‘Xx’
6

in his house with intent to commit sexual act. According to the learned Addl.
P.P., this is a clear case to convict the accused person U/s. 8 of the POSCO Act
because there are sufficient, cogent and reliable evidence against him to hold

guilty for the said offence.

Forcefully resisting the submission of the learned Addl. P.P., the
learned counsel for the accused person submitted that there is no iota of
evidence at all to see that the accused person has committed the offence U/s. 8
of the POSCO Act. According to him, in the present case, from the analysis of
the evidence of P.Ws., the accused person can not be held guilty for the offence
U/s. 8 of the POSCO Act as evidence is not consistent with the guilt of accused
person. His further submission is that the prosecution story being solely rest on
the evidence of P.W.1-the victim and the P.W.2 who is the mother of the victim,
no ingredients U/s. 8 of the POSCO Act can be made out from what these
witnesses had stated in their evidence before this Court and the P.W.2 herself
admitted in her evidence that she regards the accused as her father-in-law and
the kiss given by the accused to her daughter was nothing but a sign of love and
affection towards her daughter and out of misunderstanding her husband has
filed the instant case and such circumstances are sufficient to create a doubt
regarding the truth of the alleged occurrence rendering the prosecution story as
doubtful and concocted one. According to the learned counsel for the accused
person, the prosecution measurably failed to prove the accusation against the
accused person beyond all reasonable doubt and therefore, he prays for

acquitting the accused person from the offence with which he was charged with.

9. I have given my thoughtful and anxious consideration as to the rival
submissions lead by the learned counsels for both side. I also carefully
scrutinized the evidence adduced by the PWs. So far oral evidence of PWs
concerned, it appears that P.W.1 who is the victim of this case while examining
without oath deposed before this court that on the date of occurrence at about
9 A.M. when she went to the house of the accused person, he kissed her on her
cheek and as such, she came back to her house and informed the matter to her
mother. Now, turning back to the evidence of P.W.2-, Smti. Sumitra Das who is
the mother of the victim ‘xX’, it is found that this P.W. adduced evidence that on
7

the day of occurrence, her daughter went to the house of accused to watch
television as usual but after sometimes her daughter returned back home crying
and told her that accused kissed her. The P.W. 2 further deposed that on being
enquired, accused told her that her daughter is a little girl and out of affection he
kissed her but as instructed by the public, her husband filed the case. P.W.2 in
her cross-examination further admitted that she regards the accused as her
father-in-law and the kiss given by the accused to her daughter was nothing but
a sign of love and affection towards her daughter and out of misunderstanding
her husband has filed the instant case. The P.W.3, Sri Nibhash Das who is the
complainant and father of the victim deposed that one day during puja at about
12 mid day when he came home, saw many people gathered in his house and
they asked him to lodge the FIR against the accused, hence, he lodged the F.I.R.
In his cross-examination P.W.3 also deposed that contents of the FIR was not
known to him as it was written by somebody else and out of the influence of the
public, he lodged the FIR against the accused person. Other P.Ws. examined by
the prosecution side, namely, P.W.4, P.W.5 and P.W.6 are not the witnesses of
occurrence and their evidence are only hearsay. Thus, from analysis of the
evidence of the material witnesses, it is found that there is nothing in evidence
that on the day of occurrence, the accused person committed sexual assault on
the victim girl ‘X’ in his house with intent to commit sexual Act with her and

probability of false implication can not be ruled out in this case.

Hence, after considering the above factual position as revealed from
the analysis of the evidence of the P.Ws. and the materials before me, my considered
view is that the evidence of P.W.1 as well P.W.2, P.W.3 and other witnesses are not
sufficient to inspire confidence of this court to warrant conviction of the accused

person for the offence with which he was charged with.

Thus, after considering the cumulative value of the evidence, I find
that there is no such evidence adduced by the prosecution in the case, which
would help this Court to held confidently that accused person, on the date of
occurrence committed sexual assault on the victim girl ‘*X’ in his house with
intent to commit sexual Act with her and the evidence lead by the prosecution do

not inspire me to hold that such evidence unerringly lead to pointing towards the
8

guilt of the accused person. In a criminal case, conclusive proof having been
required before giving a finding as to the accused being guilty of offence with
which he is charged with, it is seen that in the instant case, the prosecution
measurably fails to prove conclusively the guilt of accused person committing
sexual assault on the victim girl ‘X’ in his house with intent to commit sexual Act
with her beyond all reasonable doubt. The inevitable conclusion, therefore, is
that the accused is entitled to the benefit of doubt. Thus, it is seen that the
prosecution miserably failed to bring home the charge U/s. 8 of the POSCO Act

against the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt.

O R D E R

10. In the result, the accused Sahadev Das not found guilty for
committing offence U/s. 8 of the POSCO Act. Hence, he is acquitted of the

offence and set at liberty.

The accused person being on bail, his bail bond shall extend to

another six months from today.

The judgment is pronounced in an open court and enclosed with
the case record.
Given under my hand and seal of this court, I have signed and

delivered this judgment on this 18" day of March, 2015 at Nagaon.

(Mrs.H.D. Bhuyan.)
Special Judge,

Nagaon.
Dictated and corrected by me.
(Mrs.H.D.Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Typed by me

Nagaon.
(N.Rajkhowa)
Steno.
ANNEXURE

Prosecution Witnesses :
1. P.W.1 — Victim ‘Xx’
P.W.2 - Sumitra Das
P.W.3- Nibhas Das
P.W.4 - Hinden Das
P.W.5 - Rajesh Das
P.W.6 - Sajjal Das
P.W.7 - S.I. Sekhauddin Ahmed

S Gt ot oe fo

Defence witnesses
Nil

Prosecution Exibits
1. Ext.1 — Statement of victim
2. Ext.1(1), 1(2), 1(3),& 1(4) — Signatures of victim
3. Ext.2 - FIR
4. Ext.2(1) - Signature

Defence Exhibits.

1. Ext.A — Petition filed by informant
2. Ext.A(1) — Signature of informant

(Mrs. H.D.Bhuyan)
Sessions Judge,
Nagaon.
