3 IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present : Md. A.U. Ahmed, AJS,
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No.15/2018(Special) corresponding to
GR Case No.384/2018 & Bokajan Police Station Case
No.77/2018 Under Section 363 of IPC and 4 of the
POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus

Shri Dipak Jaiswal....Accd person
Name of informant/complainant: Shri Nitai Acharjee
S/O Late Chandra Sekhar Acharjee,
Bokajan Town, Ward No.6,
PS: Bokajanm
District-Karbi Anglong.

Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Dipak Jaiswal

S/O Shri Daya Jaiswal,

Vill-Majbat,

PS:Majbat

District-Udalguri, BTAD, Assam.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor.
For the defence : Mrs R. Bharali.
Argument heard on : 81.86.2019,

Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 31.8.2019.
Contd....2/-
(2)

JUDGMENT

1. It is a case of kidnapping and penetrative sexual assault

alleged to have been committed by the accused person.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 13.4.2018, the
informant-Shri Nitai Acharjee lodged an ejahar with the O/C of Bokajan
Police Station stating inter alia that on 26.3.2018 at about 10-30 AM, his
daughter-Smti. Nikita Acharjee aged 18 years went to Karbi Anglong
Eastern College, Sariahjan for appearing examination and since then she

has been missing.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C Bokajan Police Station
registered a case vide its PS case No.77/2018 under section 363 of IPC.
On completion of investigation, 1.0. submitted the charge-sheet under
section 363 of IPC R/W Sec.8 of the POCSO Act against the accused

person.

4. On completion of appearance of the accused person, copy
was furnished to him. On perusal of the case record along with case diary
and after hearing learned lawyers of both sides, | found sufficient grounds
for presuming that the accused person committed the offences under
sections 363 of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, the charges
were framed. The particulars of the charged offences were duly read over
and explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.

5. Prosecution has examined as many as five witnesses
including the informant and the alleged victim. Statement of the accused
person was recorded under section 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence declined to

adduce evidence. Plea of defence Is of total denial.
6. Points for determination are:

(i)Whether the accused person on 26.3.2018

Contd....3/-
(3)
at Sariahjan under Bokajan Police Station
kidnapped Smti. Nikita Acharjee aged 17
years from the lawful guardianship of the
informant and that he thereby committed an

offence punishable under section 363 of IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same
date, time and place caused penetrative
sexual assault to the victim, Smti. Nikita
Acharjee and that he thereby committed an
offence punishable under section 4 of the
POCSO Act ?

7. Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal arguments
advanced by the learned counsels of both sides as well as evidence on
record. At the very outset, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the
accused person has contended that the prosecution has miserably failed
to prove the case against the accused person. On the other hand, the
learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the aforesaid
submission has submitted that the prosecution has succeeded in
establishing its case against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions, it would be appropriate to

give a glance at evidence record.

8. PW-1 is Shri Nitai Acharjee who deposed that he is the
informant of this case. The victim is his daughter and the accused is
known to him. The incident occurred in the month of March, 2018. At the
time of occurrence, his daughter was studying in higher secondary classes
in Eastern College, Sariahjan. On the day of occurrence, his daughter
went to college for appearing examination. As she did not come back after
the examination, they started searching her. Finding no any clue of her
Contd....4/-
(4)
whereabouts, he lodged the ejahar at Bokajan Police Station. After about
one month of the occurrence, the victim and the accused appeared in the
Police Station. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his signature. Thereafter,
police arrested the accused person. The police got the victim medically
examined and her statement recorded through the Court. At the time of
occurrence, the victim was 18(eighteen) years old. On his question that as
to why she eloped with the accused person, she replied that as he failed to
afford the educational cost, she left with the accused person. In cross-
examination, he deposed that he lodged the ejahar in the matter of
missing of his daughter. After leaving the house, the victim got her
admitted in a college in Bangaluru. He does not know as to where the
victim was acquainted with the accused person. The accused is not
involved with the occurrence. He has no any allegation against the
accused person. He has also no any objection if the accused is acquitted

of this case.

9. PW-2 is Smti. Rina Acharjee who deposed that the informant
is her husband and the victim is her daughter. She knows the accused
person. The occurrence took place in the year 2018. On the day of
occurrence, the victim went to attend examination, but she did not return.
Prior to the date of occurrence, the victim told that she would go to
Bangaluru to further study, but as her father told that he would not be able
to afford educational cost, she quarrelled with him. After about one month
of the occurrence, the victim and the accused appeared at Bokajan Police
Station. Police arrested the accused person and got the victim medically
examined and her statement recorded in the Court. At the time of
occurrence, the victim was 18(eighteen) years old. On her return from
Bangaluru, the victim told her that she stayed in a rented house at
Banagaluru and the accused helped her from all corners. In cross-
examination, PW-2 told that the victim went to Bangaluru at her own will.
The accused did not elope her. At present, the victim is studying in
Bangaluru. She has no any complaint against the accused person.
Contd....5/-
(5)
10. PW-3 is Shri Paban Gogoi who told that he knows the
informant and the victim. He does not know the accused person. About
one and half years back, the informant told him that his daughter, Miss
Nikita Acharjee got missing while she went to college. Later, he told him
that the victim was recovered. In cross-examination, he stated that he
came to know that at the time of occurrence, the victim was reading in

college and at that time, the victim was about 19 years old.

11. PW-4 is Dr Atreyee Goswami who told that on examination of
the victim, she found hymen absent and found no injury on her body.
According to Radiologist, Dr. Bimal Hanse, the age of victim is above 18
years. She found no spermatozoa on the smear. Ext.2 is the medical

report and Ext.2(1) and 2(2) is his signatures.

12. PW-5 is Shri Rabin Timung who is the I.O. of this case.
During investigation, he went to the place of occurrence, drew a sketch
map of the PO, got the victim examined by the doctor and her statement
recorded in the Court. On 21.6.2018 he arrested the accused, Dipak
Joyswal and recorded his statement. On the basis of the statement of the
victim, he prayed before the Court to allow him to add the Section 8 of the
POCSO Act and accordingly, his prayer was allowed. He seized the birth
certificate and identity card of the victim in presence of the witnesses.
Ext.4 is the seizure list and Ext.4(1) is his signature. M.Ext.1 is the birth
certificate of the victim and M.Ext.2 is the identity card issued by the
authority of Bidyasagar High School and he could identify the same on the
day of his deposition in the Court. He collected the medical report of the
victim and the copy of the statement recorded in the Court. On completion
of his investigation, he found sufficient materials against the accused
person to be involved with the occurrence, and accordingly, he submitted
charge-sheet under sections 363 of IPC and 8 of the POCSO Act. Ext.5 is
the charge-sheet and Ext.5(1) is his signature. In cross-examination, he

denied the suggestions that he had falsely submitted the charge-sheet

Contd....6/-
(6)

against the accused person and he did not investigate the case properly.

13. PW-6 is Miss Nikita Acharyjee who testified in her evidence
that the incident occurred about one and half years ago. At the time of
occurrence, she was 18(eighteen) years old and she, after completing 12
standard examination, wanted to prosecute her study outside Assam. But
as her father did not allow her to do so, she on the day of occurrence
without informing anybody left for Bangaluru alone. In Bangaluru, she did
job and studied. The accused is her friend and at the time of occurrence,
he stayed in Bangaluru. On reaching Bangaluru, she met the accused and
he helped her in searching PG. Still she is in the PG in Bangaluru. She
and the accused came back to Bokajan and arrived at Bokajan Police
Station. Thereafter, the police got her medically examined and _ her
statement recorded in the Court. Ext.6 is her statement and Ext.6(1) to
6(3) are her signature. During her cross-examination, she stated that as
she came to know that her father lodged the ejahar, she herself appeared
in the police station. The accused did not help in any away while she was
going to Bangaluru from Bokajan. This is all about the prosecution

evidence.

14. | have perused the entire evidence on record. PW-1 who is
the informant and father of the victim did not implicate the accused either
in his ejahar or in his deposition. PW-2 is the mother of the alleged victim
who also told that the accused did not elope her daughter, rather her
daughter willfully went to Bangaluru. Medical evidence of doctor does not
say anything as to the ingredients of section 4 of the POCSO Act. PW-6 is
the alleged victim whose testimony does not implicate the accused person
at all. Since the ingredients of sections 363 of IPC and 4 of the POCSO
Act are not proved at all against the accused person, he deserves

acquittal.
ORDER

15. In the result, | hold that the prosecution has failed to prove its
Contd....7/-
(7)
case against the accused person beyond all reasonable doubts. Hence,
on benefit of doubt, the accused, Shri Dipak Joiswal is hereby acquitted

from the charges brought against him and let him set at liberty forthwith.

16. Let the seized birth certificate be returned to the person from
whom it was seized in due course of law. Accordingly, this case is

disposed of.

17. Given under hand and seal of this Court today, the 31“ day of
August, 2019.
Dictated and corrected

by me.

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
