Page 1 of 25

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused’ u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

10 OF 2015
(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 1051 of
2015)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Kushal Nath
Son of Late Kamal.Nath
Resident of Bamunbari
Police Station,— Jamuguri,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam

18/08/2015

28/09/2015, 16/11/2015,
18/01/2016, 16/02/2016
15/03/2016, 11/05/2016,
09/01/2017,24/01/2017,
& 07/02/2017

07/02/2017

03/05/2017
11/05/2017.

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Mr. J. Borah, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Kushal Nath is put for trial for allegation
of charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

 
Page 2 of 25

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or
about 12.45 p.m. of 07-05-2015 while the students were playing outside
the school campus of NC Balijuri Prathamic Bidyalaya, accused came to
the class and covered the face of 9 years old daughter of the informant
with a black cloth, dragged her to the room and committed rape on her.
As a result of rape, informant’s daughter got fainted and blood was
oozing from her private parts. The Head Master of the school informed
him over telephone that informant’s daughter was lying unconscious. On
being came to know about the incident, the informant rushed=to the
place of occurrence and saw the girl was lying smeared with blood.
Immediately, informant took his daughter to North Jamuguri Community
Health Centre. While informant’s daughter regained ‘sense, she reported
the informant that accused committed rapeyon her. Hence, this
prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by one Durga Bahadur Chetry
before the O/C of Sootea Police Station on 10-05-2015..

3. On receipt of the ejahar;~the Incharge of Itakhola Out Post
giving GD Entry No. 157 dated 10-05-2015. After completion of usual
investigation, the O/C Tezpur Police Station sent up the accused for trial
by filing chargessheet u/s 5(f)(m)/6 of the POCSO Act against the
accused Sri Kushal Nath.

4. On.being produced the accused before this Court, after hearing
both. parties, my learned predecessor-in-court framed charge under
section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused and particulars of
the charge was read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads

not guilty and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined fifteen numbers
of witnesses. After completion of prosecution evidence, accused was
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused
and evidence appears against the accused are put before him for
explanation where he denied the evidence. To buttress the defence, the
accused initially wants to give defence evidence. But subsequently, he

failed to examine any of the said defence witness.

 
Page 3 of 25

6. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of
both the parties.

7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on or about 12.45 p.m. of 07-05-2015, at NC
Balijuri L.P. School under Sootea Police Station, the
accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the
victim Miss X (9 years) and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Child from
Sexual Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.
9. PW 1, the victim stated that the accused is her class teacher.

On the day of incident she went to, school. At 12 noon she went to
take rice at school. Other boysxand girls also took lunch. After taking
food when she went to keep,her utensil in a room, the accused put a
black cloth on her facesand took her somewhere. When she regained
her sense she found the accused on her, she was lying on bench. Her
pant was removed: The accused did something in her private parts, she
could not explain. The accused went away through a window. Her
private part was bleeding and she was having severe pain. Thereafter
she fainted. Her parents met her outside the school. She does not know
how she went there. Lateron she was taken to Kanaklata Civil Hospital.
She was also brought to the court. She stated the facts before the
Magistrate. Ext. 1 is her statement and Ext. 1(1) to 1(4) are her

signatures.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination, the
evidence as to while she went to keep her utensil in a room after having
lunch, accused put a black cloth on her face and took her somewhere,
when she regained her sense she found the accused on her, she was

lying on bench, her pant was removed, the accused did something in

 
Page 4 of 25

her private parts, she could not explain, the accused went away through
the windows, her private part was bleeding and she was having severe

pain has remained unchallenged.

10. PW 2 Smt. Rita Devi, mother of the victim, stated that on the
day of incident, the Head Master of school informed her husband at
about 1 p.m. that their daughter is ill. They went to the school. They
met her daughter sitting on a culvert near school. Her daughter was
severely bleeding from her Urinary tract (private parts). She
immediately brought her daughter to Pharmacy. Thereafter, she took
her daughter to North Jamuguri Hospital. From Jamuguri. Hospital they
came to KCH, Tezpur on reference. Her daughter‘was.kept for one day
in KCH, Tezpur. She was also given blood and saline. In civil hospital,
Doctors informed them that it was a rape case. After three days, her
husband lodged an FIR. After that police took her daughter to B/Chariali
hospital. Her daughter was admitted »at B/Chariali hospital for eight
days. In the meeting called.by ‘Headmaster, her daughter identified the
accused. On the day of meeting her daughter told them that the
accused covered her face with black cloth and took her by holding her
hands and she became’senseless. Lateron her husband lodged the FIR.
The blue coloured panty, which was put by the victim was found soaked

with blood was’seized by police.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination the
evidence as to- on the day of incident, on being came to know from
Head Master that her daughter was ill, they went to the school, met her
daughter sitting on a culvert near school, her daughter was severely
bleeding from her Urinary tract, she immediately brought her to
Pharmacy, then to North Jamuguri Hospital, then to KCH, Tezpur on
reference where her daughter was given blood and saline, in civil
hospital, Doctors informed them that it was a rape case, in the meeting
convened by head Master, her daughter identified the accused and told
her that the accused covered her face with black cloth and took her by
holding her hands and she became senseless has _ remained
unchallenged.

 
Page 5 of 25

11. ©§PW3 Sri Durga Bahadur Chetry, father of the victim, stated that
the incident took place on 07-05-2015, when her daughter was 9 years
and a student of Class V. On the day of occurrence, his daughter went
to school. Headmaster informed him over phone that his daughter was
ill and bleeding. He along with his wife went to School and found his
daughter sitting on a culvert near the school. She was bleeding from her
private parts and she was crying. Thereafter, his wife took his daughter
to a Pharmacy at Kherbari but she was taken to Dholaibil Hospital as
there is no such facilities available for treatment. From Dholaibil"Hospital
his daughter was referred to Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur. When he
enquired his daughter, she informed that the accused held by her hands
and covered her face with black cloths from backside and she became
unconscious. When she gains sense, accused was found sitting near
her. She also informed that she was profusely bleeding. Thereafter, he
informed the matter to Headmaster and Headmaster called a Meeting.
Accused was also called to that.meeting. As soon as his daughter saw
accused she started crying. Thereafter, he lodged an FIR. Ext. 2 is the
FIR and Ext. 2(1) is, his\signature. Then police took her daughter to
Biswanath Chariali.Civil Hospital for medical examination. She stayed
there for 8 days for treatment. After recovery, victim was brought to

Tezpur Court for recording her statement.

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination but the
evidence as to — on being came to know from the Headmaster that his
daughter was ill and bleeding, he along with his wife went to School and
found their daughter sitting on a culvert near the school, she was
bleeding from her private parts and she was crying, took her daughter
to Dholaibil hospital, from Dholaibil Hospital his daughter was admitted
in Kanaklata Civil Hospital, his daughter informed him that the accused
held by her hands and covered her face with black cloths from backside
and she became unconscious, when she gained sense she saw accused
was sitting near her, she was profusely bleeding, thereafter, he
informed the matter to Headmaster and Headmaster called a Meeting,

where accused was also called for, as soon as his daughter saw accused

 
Page 6 of 25

she started crying and thereafter he lodged an FIR has remained

unchallenged.

12. PW 4 Smt. Tara Saikia stated that the incident occurred on 07-
05-2015 in the NC Balijuri Primary school. She was informed by the
Principal of School that in their school, victim was crying. She saw the
blood in the hands and legs of victim and so they think that the victim
has attained puberty. On 10-05-2015 a meeting was called by \Head
Master, where accused was also called. The accused was wearing a
black cap. On seeing the accused, the victim jumped intosher mother’s
lap and she was very much afraid of accused. On-enquiry, the victim
told her that accused had held her with black caps. They went to police

station, however the accused fled away therefrom.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestion the evidence as to on being came to know
from the Principal about the incident she went to school and saw the
blood in the hands and legs of victim, on 10-05-2015 in the meeting
held at Namghar the.accused came by wearing a black cap, on seeing
the accused, the victim jumped into her mother’s lap and the victim was
very much afraid of on seeing the accused and on enquiry, the victim
told her that accused had held her with black cap and then accused fled

away-has remained unchallenged.

13. \»PW 5 Dr. Mina Bora Biswasi has stated that on 11-05-2015 she
was posted as working as Sr. Medical & Health Officer at Sub-Divisional
Civil Hospital, Biswanath chariali and on that day, at about 10 a.m, she
examined Miss Tilorupa Devi, 10 years, D/O Durgabahadur Chetri of
village Dakhin Balijuri, PS Sootea, Sonitpur, Assam, in reference to
Sotea PS GDE NO. 172 dt. 10-05-2015. The patient was admitted in the
hospital on 10-05-2015 and she was discharged on 16-05-2015. On
examination found the following:

Alleged history of rape four days ago. On local examination she

found :

 
Page 7 of 25

She found blood stained undergarments. Oozing of blood still

present from vaginal canal. Vaginal canal did not admit tip of the finger.

Tear present on the left side of the lateral vaginal wall. Hymen
ruptured. Entire perineum shows echymosis. She advised for X-ray of
both wrist joints for determination of age.

Remarks:

Injury marks present in her private parts.
Patient was subjected to sexual intercourse.

Ext. 3 is the Medical Report and Ext. 3(1) is her signature. Ext. 4
is the Discharge Certificate of Biswanath Chariali.Sub-Divisional Civil

Hospital, Biswanath chariali.

In cross-examination, the Doctor\admitted that as per the
history given by the parents of the victim,she was subjected to sexual
assault about four days ago, such injury of private part may not occur

by falling because in case of.falling’*there would be other injuries also.

14. PW 6 Sri Jiban Sarmah stated that the incident took place on
07-05-2015. When.he reached there at school, the victim informed him
that there is bleeding from her private parts. At that time the accused
was about 7/8 feet away. Thereafter, he sent victim to her house with
Ganga, and Kabita. Next day, he came to know that the victim was
referred to Tezpur Hospital from Dhalaibil Hospital where she was given
blood. On 09-05-15 at about 7 a.m. he was informed by father of the
victim that victim was raped. On 10-05-2015 in the meeting the
accused, VDP secretary, Goanburha, teachers and other people were
present. On seeing the accused, the victim became afraid and went to
lap of her mother. Thereafter, they went to Itakhola Police Post. Though

the accused was supposed to go to police post but he did not go.

Though PW 6 has been exposed to long cross-examination but
the evidence as to incident took place on 07-05-2015 when he arrived
at the school the victim informed him that there is bleeding from her

private parts, at that time the accused was about 7/8 feet away, he sent

 
Page 8 of 25

victim to house with Ganga and Kabita, when he went to their house he
saw the victim along with her grandmother coming out from Pharmacy
and going to Hospital, in the next day, the father of the victim informed
him that the victim was referred to Tezpur Hospital and the victim was
given blood. On 09-05-15 at about 7 a.m. the father of the victim called
him to his aunt’s house and informed that his daughter was raped. On
10-05-2015 in the meeting held at the village Namghar, accused was
also present and on seeing the accused, the victim became afraid.and

went to lap of her mother, had remained unchallenged.

15. PW7 Dr. Sisir Baidya stated that on 07-05-2015 he was working
as Sr. Medical & Health Officer in the North JamgurisCHC and on that
day he was on duty in the CHC and he examined the victim, 9 years,
Female. The patient was accompanied by ‘her father and mother along
with Khemraj with complaint of vaginal bleeding. On the examination

found the following:

Bruise and injury seen on vagina and the patient was referred to

Kanaklata Civil Hospital Tezpur to consult Gynaecologist.
Ext. 5 isthe Medical report and Ext. 5(1) is his signature.

In« cross-examination, the Doctor admitted that the parent

accompanying the victim gave history of vaginal bleeding.

16. \» PW 8 Sri Ratul Mech, stated that on 23-05-2015 he was working
as Police Constable at Itakhola Police Out Post at the direction of I/C he
accompanied SI Dhariti Choudhury went to the house of the victim. In
the house of the victim, SI Dhariti Choudhury took statement of the
victim and recorded the statement in video-graph. Then the compact
Disk (CD) of the video graph was handed over to the Incharge of
Itakhola Police Out Post. Ext. 6 is the seizurelist and Ext. 6(1) is his
Signature. Material Ext. 1 is the said compact Disk (CD).

17. PW 9 Sri Gopal Chetry stated that he came to know about the
incident on 10-05-2015. On that day, Head Master of NC Balijuri LP

 
Page 9 of 25

School called a meeting in the school premises. In meeting when the
accused came, the victim became frightened and went to her mother’s
lap and started crying. Then accused fled away there. Then the father
of the victim lodged an FIR. Police seized a panty (blood stained) of the
victim. Ext. 7 is the seizure-list and Ext. 7(1) is his signature. Material
Ext. 2 is the said panty seized by the I.0.

18. PW 10, Sri Hemanta Barah stated that on 23-05-2015. he was
working as Home Guard at Itakhola Police Out Post, at the.direction of
Incharge of Itakhola Police Out Post he accompanied. SI’ Dhariti
Choudhury, who was in Civil dress, went to the house of victim. In the
house of the victim, SI Dhariti Choudhury took statement of the victim
and made video-graph. The compact Disk (CD) of the video graph was
hended over to the Incharge of Itakhola Police Out Post. Ext. 6 is the

seizurelist and Ext. 6(2) is his signature.

19. PW 11 Sri Santosh Kr. Koushik stated that in the next day, he
came to know that the victim was in Hospital. On 10-05-2015 he was
called by Head Master of their school to attend a meeting regarding the
incident. In that meeting the parents of victim and the accused were
also present. On seeing the accused, the victim out of fear, went to the
lap of hercmother. In the meeting everyone suspected that the accused

is involved.in'the incident. Lateron, father of the victim lodged an FIR.

20. » PW 12 Smt. Dhariti Choudhury, WSI, stated that on 23-05-2015
she was posted at Biswanath Chariali Police station. On that day she
was sent to Itakhola Put Post. She accompanied with two constable
went to the house of the victim. She was on plain clothes. She had
recorded the statement of the victim u/s 161 Cr.P.C. The statement was
recorded infront of the Video Camera. The parents of the victim were
present at that time. The CD containing the recordings of the Video
Camera was handed over to I/C Subleswar Deka. Ext. 6 is the seizure
list and Ext. 6(3) is her signature. Material Ext. 1 is the CD containing

the Video recording of the statement of the victim.

 
Page 10 of 25

21. PW 13 Sri Subaleswar Deka, the I.0., stated that on 10-05-
2015 he was posed as an Incharge of Itakhola Police Out Post. At about
1 p.m. complainant Durga Bahadur Chetry lodged one written ejahar.
He entered GD Entry No. 157 dated 10-05-2015. The original ejahar
was sent to O/C Sootea PS. Ext. 2 is the said ejahar and Ext.2(2) is his
signature with note. Then O/C Sootea PS registered a case vide Sootea
PS Case No. 60/15 dated 10-05-2015 u/s 5(f)(m)/6 of POCSO Act. He
has recorded the statement of the complainant, other witnesses, like
Rita Devi, Tara Saikia, Jiban Sarmah, Dimbeswar Saikia, MaheshSarma,
Gopal Chetri and Sashan Subba at the Police station. Then\he rushed to
the place of occurrence. Ext. 8 is the said certified copy of GD Entry and
Ext. 8(1) is his signature. Ext. 9 is the sketch-map ‘and Ext. 9(1) is his
signature. Due to injury sustained .by\victim, the victim was
immediately sent to Dholaibil PHC, but as referred to KCH, Tezpur so
the complainant side took the victim to KCH, Tezpur. On being seen the
gravity of the injury, the patient.was given one unit of blood. Since the
injury sustained by victim«is dueto rape, so the doctor discharged the

patient.

On 10-05-2015*the victim was sent to B/Chariali hospital. As
there were no female police officer so they requested Smt. Dhariti
Choudhury“to»record the statement of the victim. Accordingly, said
woman Police SI recorded the statement of the victim and she prepared
a. cassette. On 25-05-2015, he sent the victim for recording her
statement u/s 164 CR.P.C. As the victim was hospitalized and due to her
illness the statement of the victim was recorded lately. Material Ext. 1 is
the said Cassette containing the video recording of statement of victim.
Ext. 6(4) is his signature in the seizurelist. During investigation he
seized one light blue coloured blood stained panty which was used by
the victim at the time of occurrence. Ext. 7 is the seizurelist and Ext.
7(1) is his signature. After collecting the medical report and statement
of the victim, he filed the charge sheet against accused u/s 5 (f)(m)/6
of the POCSO Act vide Ext. 12 and Ext. 12(1) is his signature.

 
Page 11 of 25

22. PW 14 Miss J. Bora, Munsiff -Judicial Magistrate, 1° class,
Rangia, stated that on 25-05-2015 she was working as_ Judicial
Magistrate, 1° class, Tezpur. In reference to Sootea PS Case No. 60/15
u/s 5 (f) (m)/6 of POCSO Act she has recorded the statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. of the victim at her court chamber who was identified and
escorted by WPC 598 Rekha Kotoki. Since the witness was nine years
old minor, so she has put some questions and on her answer she is
satisfied, accordingly, she had recorded her statement. The witness
made statement before her voluntarily. After recording her ‘statement
she has read over the contents of the writings and on her acceptance
she put her signature thereon. Ext. 1 is the statement of the victim and

Ext. 1(5) is her signature.

23. PW 15 Kaji Nur Hussain, the scribe of the ejahar, stated that
that on 10-05-2015 he was at his Tarani shop situated at Sootea Centre,
at the request of complainant he wrotethe ejahar and read over to the
complainant and then complainant»put his signature thereon. Ext. 1 is
the ejahar and Ext. 1(3) is his ‘signature as a scribe. In the heading of
the ejahar, the date of 10-05-2015 was interpolated with whitener

himself.

24. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence

plea is total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

25. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case beyong any reasonable doubt. Firstly, other
than the victim none has supported the prosecution case. Even the
statement of the victim, there is no any direct evidence as to the alleged
offence. Secondly, the black cloth which was alleged to be covered the
face of the victim was not seized by the police. Thirdly, though a blue
colour panty which was used by the victim at the relevant point of time
was found to have been blood stained but that was not sent to FSL to
test the blood whether the blood is human blood or animal blood.
Thirdly, non-examination of Anamika, Barnali, Gaurab, Bitu etc. who are

material witnesses also caste doubt to the prosecution case. Forthly, the

 
Page 12 of 25

doctor stated that the victim has been hospitalized for four days but the
victim stated that she regained her sense after three days of the
occurrence. Fifthly, according to PW 4, the village meeting held for the
incident, the accused was wearing a black cap but accused has not
taken any black cloth. Sixthly, the Cassette prepared by Woman SI of
police was not shown in the court. Sevently, the statement of the victim
was recorded very lately but the cause of late of examination of victim

u/s 164 Cr.P.C. was not clearly explained by the I.O.

26. ‘Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur submittd
that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond ‘any reasonable
doubt, as such, accused is required to be convicted ‘under the charged
section of law. First, the victim supported the case clearly. Her evidence
clearly reveals that at the relevant time she.has been taken to the room
by the accused covering her face with a.black cloth, as a result, she
became unconscious. When she regained her sense she saw accused
infront of him and blood.was oozing from her private parts. Her
statement is corroborated with the FIR, statement u/s 161 and 164
Cr.P.C. Secondly, the doctor PW 5 stated that on examination she found
blood stained undergarments. Oozing of blood still present from the
vaginal canal. Besides, hymen was found ruptured. Entire perineum
shows echymosis and remarked that the injury marks present in her
private ‘parts and patient was subjected to sexual intercourse. Though
the doctor has been exposed to long cross-examination but the doctor
admitted that victim was subjected to sexual assault about 4 days ago
and the doctor also admitted that such injury may not occur by falling
because in case of falling there would be other injuries also. Thirdly,
none of the witnesses was cross-examined by the defence that there is
any enmity in between the parties to implicate the accused in such type
of heinous activities. Forthly, the statement of PW 1,2,3 and 4 are
corroborated to each other. There is nothing to disbelieve the statement
of the aforesaid witnesses. Fifthly, the circumstantial evidence of the
case also infer the accused in commission of the crime, as such,

accused is required to be convicted under the charged section.

 
Page 13 of 25

27. To fortify the submissions, learned Public prosecutor has

submitted the following case laws:-

(1) 2008 Cr.L.J (SC) 710 (A) para 15.

(2) 2012 Cr.L.J (SC) 693 (B) para 15.

(3) 2010 Cr.L.J (SC) 4283 (A) para 15

(4) 2006 (SUP) 1 GLT 258 (B) para 16 and 17

(5) 2010 Cr.L.J (SC) 889 (A) Para 8 (B) Para 8(C) Para.8
(6) 2009 Cr.L.J. (SC) 4133 (B) page 21.

28. I have thoroughly perused the case laws cited ‘bythe learned

Public prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

29. Keeping in mind the argument advanced)by learned counsels of

both sides, I am going to dispose of the case.

30. A close scanning of the record including the evidence of the
aforesaid witness, it is seen that~except the victim there is no eye
witness to the occurrence. There is an evidence of prosecutrix that on
the day of incident at school, after having their lunch she went to keep
her utensil in a+oom,~ accused put a black cloth on her face and took
her somewhere, when she regained her sense she found the accused on
her, she.was lying on a bench, her pant was removed, the accused did
something. in her private parts, she could not explain, the accused went
away ‘through the window, her private part was bleeding and she was
having severe pain and thereafter she fainted. Her parents met her
outside the school. Lateron she was taken to Kanaklata Civil Hospital.
She was also brought to the court to record her statement. Ext. 1 is her
statement and ext. 1(2) to 1(4) are her signatures. Though she has
been exposed to long cross-examination but the evidence as to at the
relevant time after having lunch while she went to kept her utensils in a
room, accused put a black cloth on her face and took her somewhere,
when she regained her sense she found the accused on her, she was
lying on bench, her pant was removed, the accused did something in

her private parts which she could not explain, after that her private part

 
Page 14 of 25

was bleeding and she was suffering from severe pain has remained

unchallenged.

31. In this case, the victim and her parents and the independent
witnesses categorically stated about the incident. Their statements are
corroborated with each other. During their cross-examination same has
not been disputed at all by the defence. The victim has been consistent
with the material particular with regards to the incident that on the day
of incident while after having her lunch she went to kept her<utensil in a
room accused put a black cloth on his face and took her.somewhere
and when she regained her sense accused was found on her, she was
lying on bench, her pant was removed and the accused did something
on her private parts which she could not explain, accused went away
through window and blood was oozing ‘from her private parts and
thereafter she got fainted. The parents met her outside the school. The
victim also stated so before the Magistrate when her statement was
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and before the police while her statement was
recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C;

32. The unrebuttable evidence of doctor is such that at the time of
examination of the victim, the doctor found blood stained undergarment
and also found bleeding from the vaginal canal, tear present on the left
side of the lateral vaginal wall, hymen was found ruptured, entire
perineum shows echymosis and the patient was subjected to sexual
intercourse. The doctor also admitted that such type of injury may not
occur by falling. Thus, such injury sustained in the private parts of the

victim due to sexual assault, the doctor has also supported.

33. In the present case at the time of examination of victim some
questions were put to her and she replied the same without any
hesitation and this court has held that the victim has able to give
rational answers thereafter her statement was recorded without oath.
Apart from that, other witnesses including the parents of the victim i.e.
PW 2 and PW 3 supported the evidence. Besides them, PW 4 and PW 9

have also supported the evidence of the complainant. There is nothing

 
Page 15 of 25

in the cross-examination of any of the prosecution witnesses which
could suggest that they were deposing falsely in any manner. Though
they have been subjected to vigorous suggestions but all the witnesses
vehemently denied. The evidence of the victim is cogent and reliable.
There cannot be any doubt to disbelieve the evidence of the victim. On
the other hand, at the time of recording of statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. all
incriminating evidence appears against him are duly put to accused
where he denied the evidence and allegation. He simply stated that he
is an innocent. At the relevant time he and the Head Master was:taking
rest at the back side of the verandah of their school. In the mean time
Anamika Newar came to them and informed them that there were
spirits appeared in the room then he told her that,he,has been there for
last five years but there is no instances\appears to him of any
appearance of spirit or ghost. Then Anamika*came out from the room
and told that the victim was crying. as.because she was bleeding. While
the other students were left<the place, he by removing her wearing
skirt, saw blood was oozing. Then he gave warning to them. He stated
that oozing of blood. because she applied finger in her private parts.
Though accused initially stated that he would like to give evidence
through Anamika Newar, Rudra Newar and other one person but

ultimately:he did not adduce any defence evidence.

34,~, In Munna Kr. Upadhaya @ Munna Upadhaya Vs. State of
Andhra Pradesh reported in 2012 Crl.L.J. 3068, the Hon’ble Apex
Court pleased to held —

“Statement made by the accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C. serves a dual
purpose. Firstly, to afford to the accused an opportunity to explain
his conduct and secondly, to use denial of established facts as
incriminating evidence against him if the accused given incorrect or
false answers during the course of his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C., the

court draw an adverse inference against him”

In the instant case the absurd explanation as to his conduct and
to deny the established fact by the accused can easily drawn an adverse

inference against him.

 
Page 16 of 25

35. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of
accused is not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered
much as prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of
all reasonable doubts. However, in a case under POCSO Act, the
situation is not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to refer to the
provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

36. U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for. certain
offence is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain
offences and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences —/Where’a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting’to commit any
offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court-shall presume that such person
has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the

case may be, unless the contrary is proved.

37. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special
Court shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state
of the accused where culpable mental state is required on the part of
the accused. Section 30 reads as under:

‘30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any
prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume
that. existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the
accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect
to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved
only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt
and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of

probabilities.

38. Coming to the present case, whether the conviction can be

recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness or not?

 
Page 17 of 25

Such type of issue was dealt by the Hon’ble Apex Court in
Virendra — Vs — State of U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are
reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On the
contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may
testify — all persons shall be competent to testify unless the Court
considers that they are prevented from understanding the questions put
to them, or from giving rational answers to those questions, ‘by=tender
years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind,vor any other

cause of the same kind.”

39. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has
intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational answers
thereto. The evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected
per se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with
close scrutiny and only on being,convinced about the quality thereof and

reliability can record conviction, based thereon.

40. In Dattu-Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra,
(1997) 5 SCC.341, it was held that a child witness if found competent
to depose‘to the facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis
of conviction. In other words, even in the absence of oath the evidence
of. a child witness can be considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act
provided that such witness is able to understand the questions and able
to give rational answer thereof. The evidence of a child witness and
credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of each case.
The only precaution which the Court should bear in mind while
assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a
reliable one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent

witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored.

41. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs —
State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on

the question whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence

 
Page 18 of 25

primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his manners, his
apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and the said Judge may
resort to any examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and

intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an oath.

42. In the present case as stated above, the victim was examined
after testifying her rationally by putting some questions where she
without hesitation makes statement.

Learned counsel for the accused submitted that non examination
of Anamika, Barnali, Gaurab, Bitu etc. who were material witnesses
caste doubt to the prosecution story. It is true that the prosecution has
failed to examine the aforesaid witnesses who \werey present in the

school.

43. In this case, I may mention a case~law i.e. Md. Khalid Vs.
State of West Bengal reported.in 2002 SCC Cri. 1734. It has been
held that “Wormally, the prosecution’s duty is to examine all the eye
witnesses, the selection-of whom has to be made with due care
honestly and fairly. The witnesses have to be selected with a view not to
suppress any honest opinion, and due care has to be taken that in
selction of witnesses, no adverse inference is drawn against the
prosecution, However, no general rule can be laid down that each and
every.witness has to be examined even though his testimony may or
may not be material. the most important factor for the prosecution
being that all those witnesses strengthening the case of the prosecution
have to be examined, the prosecution can pick and choose the
witnesses who are considered to be relevant and material for the
purpose of unfolding the case the prosecution. It is not the quantity but
the quality of the evidence that is important. In the case at hand, if the
prosecution felt that its case has been well established through the
witnesses examined, it cannot be said that non-examination of some

persons rendered its version vulnerable. ”

44. Coming to the present case, it appears that according to the

prosecution story after the occurrence the aforesaid witnesses were

 
Page 19 of 25

present. But there is no any evidence that the victim has informed about
the incident to any of the aforesaid students, therefore, when there is
other convincible and reliable witness, so non-examination of aforesaid

witnesses cannot be a ground to discard the prosecution story.

45. Another point may be discussed that PW 2 and PW 3 are the
mother and father respectively of the victim, therefore, the question
may raise at to the interestedness of their evidence.

Law is well settled that the interested witnesses are not
necessarily false witness. Though the fact that those witnesses have
personal interest or stake in the matter must put the court of its guard,
that the evidence of such witnesses must be subjected.to close scrutiny
as the court must assess the testimony of each important witness and
indicates the reasons for accepting or-rejecting it and that no doubt
should be at once discarded simply because, it came from interested
parties. [Vide — (a) Siya Ram Rai Vs, State of Bihar (1973) 3 SCC 241;
(b) Sarwan Sing Vst. state of Punjab (1976) 4 SCC 369 ; (c) Birbal Vs.
Keder AIR 1977 SC ; (d)Anvaruddin Vs. Shakoor JT (1990) 2 SC 83].

46. Coming to the present case, it is true that PW 2 and 3
respectively are.mother and father of the victim. As stated above, there
is no eyewitness except the victim as the incident took place inside a
room<of a school so it would be futile to expect of prosecution to
produce independent outsider as a witness. More so, in the instant case,
it isnot that only PW 2 and 3 who have supported the prosecution case,
there are other witnesses i.e. PW 4, PW 6, PW 9 and PW 10 who also
supported the prosecution case. Therefore, the evidence of PW 2 and 3
cannot be thrown overboard simply on the ground of interestedness of

their evidence.

47. In the present case it appears that neither the prosecutrix nor
any of the witnesses has been examined on any bitter enmity in
between the victim and the accused. There is no any evidence that
there is any quarrel which led to enmity in between the family members

of the victim with the accused. There is no any iota of evidence that the

 
Page 20 of 25

victim has been subjected to punishment for different means by her
teacher (accused) for which the victim planned to trap the accused to
retaliate. It is not explained as to why the victim of sexual assault would
blame accused sparing real culprit. That apart, there appears no any
reason that the complainant being the father of the victim would put his
minor daughter at stake by falsely pressing commission of penetrative
sexual intercourse. Therefore, the statement of victim is found to be

worthy of credence, convincing and reliable.

48. In this case, the other circumstances relied by the.prosecution
are as follows :

Firstly, there is an evidence that after 12°O’clock of the day of
incident, the accused by putting a black cloth‘on the face of the victim
took her to a room from the room where*the victim went to keep her
utensils, when she regained her sense she was found accused on her,
she was on bench. Her pant was removed, the accused did something in
her private parts and her private parts was bleeding then accused went
through the window. Secondly, other than accused at the relevant time
none was present in the room. Thirdly, on being informed by Head
Master at aboute=1 ‘p.m. about the incident of illness of victim, the
parents of the victim rushed to the school and met the victim sitting on
a culvert._near*the school, they found severe bleeding from the private
parts» of. the victim, so they took the victim immediately to North
Jamuguri hospital, then to KCH, Tezpur where she was given blood and
saline and gave treatment by the doctor. The doctor opined that that
was a rape case. Fourthly, the doctor found profuse bleeding in the
private parts of the victim, tear present on the left side of the lateral
vaginal wall, hymen was found ruptured, entire perineum shows
echymosis and the victim was subjected to sexual intercourse. Fifthly,
the victim reported the incident to her parents. Sixthly, after the
incident, the victim has been treated for more than 8 days for injury of
private parts. Seventhly, in the meeting called by the Head master of
the school, local public, VDP secretary, teachers, parents of the victim

were also present. In the said meeting accused was present by wearing

 
Page 21 of 25

a black cap, where the victim identified the accused and on being seen
the accused out of fear the victim jumped into the mother’s lap and
after the meeting the parent and teachers all were decided to go Police
station where accused was also supposed to go but he fled away.
Eighthly, there is no enmity appears in between the family members of
the victim with the accused. Ninthly, the evidence of the attitude,
conduct of the accused that he being a teacher even after see the
profuse bleeding of a student (victim) he failed to inform the matter to
the Head Master or to the doctor. Lastly, the accused simply denied his
guilty but gives an absurd explanation of appears of ghost/spirit while

his statement was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

49. All these facts taken cumulatively formsa chain so complete that
there is no escape from the conclusion jthat within all human
probabilities that it is none but accused.who committed penetrative
sexual assault to the victim in the school. These established
circumstances did not admit.of explanation of any other hypothesis then
that of the guilt of the accused Kushal Nath.

50. In view of the aforesaid discussions, I am of the opinion that
from the evidence of the victim, other witnesses, medical report and
other documents available in the record, the prosecution has
successfully proved the guilt of the accused Sri Kushal Nath u/s 4 of the
POGSO Act. As the prosecution has failed to prove the exact age of the
victim that she was below 12 years by cogent evidence therefore, I
acquit the accused from the charge u/s 6 of the POCSO Act.

51. The accused is heard on the point of sentence. He has submitted
that he is the only earning member of his family. Hence, praying for

leniency.

52. The learned defence counsel for the convict submits that the
convict Kushal Nath is a man of 45 years and he is a teacher. He was
not previously convicted in any offence and he is one of the major

earning members of their family. Hence, praying for leniency.

 
Page 22 of 25

53. I have carefully considered the submissions made by learned
Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur as well as learned defence counsel. I have

also gone through the case record.

54. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court
should strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the
crime and mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case,
so far as the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor’girl was
sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only'to the body
but also to the mind of the victim and to her ‘family members, but
considering the mitigating circumstances, the. accused was hardly 46
years of age at the time of the incident. It is not brought to the notice of
this Court that before this incident, the accused had committed any
other offence. The statute u/s:4 of POCSO Act prescribes minimum
punishment for a term of seven years with fine. When the intention of
the legislator is to impose stringent punishment for not less than seven
years, this court has no option but to impose minimum punishment of
seven years.
ORDER

55. I convict the accused Sri Kushal Nath u/s. 4 of POCSO Act and
sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 7 (seven) years and also to
pay a‘fine of Rs.5000/- (Rupees five thousand only), in default, Rigorous
Imprisonment for 1 (one) month for the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act.
The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from the
period of imprisonment, imposed on him according to the procedure of
428 of Cr.P.C.

56. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement
of witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an

amount of Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees twenty five thousand) only is awarded

 
Page 23 of 25

as compensation. The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority,
Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to give the compensation to the father of the

victim after proper enquiry.

57. Acopy of this judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost
and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur,
as per provisions of law.

Send a copy of this Judgment to the Central Jail, Sonitpur,
Tezpur.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this-they11™ day
of May, 2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R»Hazarika, Steno
2S & Gre i

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8
Prosecution Witness No.9
Prosecution Witness No.10
Prosecution Witness No.11
Prosecution Witness No.12
Prosecution Witness No.13
Prosecution Witness No.14

Prosecution Witness No.15

Exhibit 1
Cr.P.C.

Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Exhibit. 4

Exhibit 5
Exhibit 6 & 7
Exhibit 8
Exhibit 9
Exhibit 10

Exhibit 11
blood.

Exhibit 12

Page 24 of 25

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

:- Victim.

7 Smt. Rita Devi.

= Sri Durga Bahadur Chetry, informant.

- Smt. Tara Saikia, VDP Secretary.

:- Dr. Mina Bora Biswasi, M.O.

- Sri Jiban Sarmah

i= Dr. Sisir Baidya, M.O.

- Sri Ratul Mech,

'- Sri Gopal Chetry,

:- Sri Hemanta Borah

- Sri Santosh Kr. Kousihk.

- Smt. Dhariti Choudhury,/WSI,

:- Sri Subaleswar Deka),1.0.

- Miss J. “Bora, Munsiff  -Judicial
Magistrate,1* class, Rangia

” Kaji Nur Hussain.

EXHIBITS.

:- Statement of the victim u/s 164

- FIR
- Medical report

'- Discharge certificate of B/Chariali
Sub- Divisional Civil Hospital.

- Medical report.

- Seizurelists.

- Certified copy of GD Entry
'- sketch map

. Blood bank ticket.

= KCH certificate about giving of

- Chargesheet.

 
1. Material Exhibit 1
2. Material Exhibit 2

Page 25 of 25

Material Exhibit.

: Compact Disk
: Panty of the victim.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
