CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 56/16

Informant: —§ Sri Numal Chandra Dutta,
S/o- Late Budheswar Dutta,
R/o- Kalyan Nagar,
PS- Naharkatia,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Moti Rajput,
S/o- Late Budhan Rajput,
R/o- Hilkachuban, Sasoni,
PS- Naharkatia,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. U Rauth, learned Legal Aid Counsel.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 56/16
G.R. Case No. 1817/16

State of Assam
‘i Vs-

Sri Moti Rajput

Charges: Under Sections 6 read with Sections 5(j)(ii) & (I) and 376(2)(n) IPC.

Date of evidence on : 29-03-17, 02-06-17, 04-07-17 & 05-08-17.
Date of argument : 05-08-17.
Date of Judgment —: 05-08-17.

1)

a)

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in a nutshell is that the victim X was given shelter in Sri
Numal Chandar Dutta’s house for four months. On 08-07-16, at about 1:00
pm, the victim complained of stomach ache and so Sri Numal Chandra Dutta
(hereinafter the complainant) took the victim to the hospital and after
examination, the doctor informed him that the victim was pregnant. When
the complainant questioned the victim X about her pregnancy, she informed
him that her elder brother Sri Moti Rajput (hereinafter the accused)
impregnated her. An ejahar regarding this incident was lodged by the
complainant and the police registered the same as Naharkatia PS Case No.
64/16 under Sections 376(2)(f) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC in short) and
Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual offences Act, 2012
(POCSO Act in short). SI Soroj Doley was entrusted with the investigation.

The investigating officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation. He

forwarded the victim to the Magistrate for recording her statement under
Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC in short) and for medical
examination. He went to the place of occurrence and prepared a Sketch-Map
and recorded the statements of witnesses. On finding prima facie materials,
he submitted the Charge-Sheet against the accused under Section 376(2)(f)
IPC.

3) On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and as this case is
triable by the Sessions Judge, the case was committed to this Court.

4) After hearing both the sides, a formal charge under Section 6 read with
Sections 5(j)(ii) & (I) and 376(2)(n) IPC was framed and read over and
explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and claimed
innocence.

5) To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of four
witnesses including the MO. The accused did not tender any evidence in
defence. The statement of the accused was recorded under Section 313
CrPC. His plea was of total denial.

6) I have heard the arguments forwarded by the learned counsel for both the
sides.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

1. Whether the accused from the month of November, 2015
committed aggravated sexual assault on the victim X and
impregnated her?

2. Whether at the same time and place, the accused
repeatedly committed rape on the victim X?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:
7) The complainant Sri Numal Chandra Dutta testified as PW-2 that about a year

back, he offered shelter to the victim X. During her stay, the victim informed
8)

9)

them that she was suffering from stomache. His wife Smti. Anima Dutta
advised him to take the victim to the hospital for examination. Then he took
the victim to Dighalapather State Dispensary. After examination of the victim,
the doctor informed him that the victim was pregnant and was carrying for
seven months. He went and informed his wife about the victim’s pregnancy
and his wife asked the victim about the person who impregnated her. Then
the victim informed his wife that her elder brother Sri Moti Rajput
impregnated her. They querried the victim about her elder brother and the
victim informed them that her brother works at a nearby Dhaba. Then, he
called the accused and asked him in the victim’s presence about her
pregnancy and asked the accused to take charge of the victim. The accused
refused to take custody of his younger sister. Then he lodged an ejahar with
the police. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his signature.

Similarly, his wife Smti. Anima Dutta testified as PW-1 that the victim was
given shelter in their house as her mother was insane and her father was
dead. The victim started staying in their house from the month of March,
2016. After four months, the victim complained of stomache. So she sent the
victim to the hospital and the doctor examined the victim and informed her
husband that the victim was seven months pregnant. She asked the victim
about the person who impregnated her and the victim revealed before them
that her elder brother impregnated her and so they informed the incident to
the police. The victim who was forwarded to the Nagaon State Home for
Women was blessed with a daughter. The State Home informed them that
the victim was blessed with a daughter.

Contrary to this, the victim testified as PW-3 that the accused is her elder

brother. Her father is no more and her mother is mentally ill. The incident
took place about more than a month ago. During the time of Janmastami,
she went to the Namghar. When she came out to answer nature's call outside
the Namghar during Janmastami festival, she was sexually assaulted by five
unknown miscreants. There were five boys who committed rape on her, but
she could not identify them as they had their faces covered. When she tried
to raise alarm, the miscreants gagged her. There was bleeding from her
private part as she was injured by the assault. The miscreants also groped
her and bit on her breast. The miscreants threatened her not to disclose
about the incident to anybody, lest, she will be killed. They also threatened
her to set their house ablaze and also kill her family members. When she
returned home from the Namghar, she did not inform the incident to
anybody. After one day, she went to the complainant's house to work as a
domestic help. Meanwhile, she became pregnant and her body started
showing signs of pregnancy due to her swollen abdomen. She started missing
her menstrual periods and then she was taken to the hospital by the
complainant. She discovered that she was pregnant. After the complainant
brought her back to the house, he informed his wife about her pregnancy.
The complainant's wife exercised pressure upon her to reveal the name of the
person who impregnated her and she falsely implicated her elder brother,
because she was assaulted and slapped by the complainant's wife. Then the
complainant called her elder brother and informed him about the pregnancy
and lodged a case against her elder brother. Police recorded her statement
and forwarded her to the Magistrate for recording her statement. The police
also forwarded her to the doctor for medical examination. She gave birth to a
baby in the Nagaon State Home and the baby was given in adoption.

10) Although this case is against the accused person, yet the victim’s omission to
implicate that the accused is complicit makes a dent in the evidence. The
medical officer's evidence as PW-4 clearly depicts that the victim was
pregnant and carrying for 29 weeks and 5 days. She examined the victim on
11-07-16 and the case was lodged against the accused on 09-07-16. The
victim was given shelter in the complainant's house, but at that time, she was
already pregnant and was carrying for 29 weeks. The Medical Report reveals
that the victim was a major at the time of the incident and she was about 18
years. Both the complainant and his wife have implicated that the accused
impregnated the victim, but the victim testified as PW-3 that five unknown
miscreants committed rape on her. By such testimony, the victim tried to
imply that she became pregnant because she was sexually assaulted by five
unknown persons. She further testified as PW-3 that when the complainant’s
wife PW-1 exercised pressure on her and slapped her, then she falsely
implicated her brother. Thus this case against the accused falls through.
When the victim herself failed to implicate that the accused is complicit, this
case is without a substratum. The benefit of doubt goes to the accused
person. It is thereby held that the prosecution failed to prove beyond a
reasonable doubt that the accused committed aggravated penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim by repeatedly assaulting her sexually being her elder
brother and being in a formidable position. Moreover, the Medical Report
reveals that the victim was above 18 years. The prosecution also failed to
prove beyond all reasonable doubt that the accused repeatedly committed
rape on the victim, because the victim herself did not implicate that the
accused is complicit. Thereby the accused is not held guilty of the offence
under Section 376(2).

11)In view of my foregoing discussions, the accused is acquitted from the
charges under Sections 6 read with Sections 5(j)(ii) & (I) and 376(2)(n) IPC
and is set at liberty forthwith.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 5™ day of
August, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 Smti. Anima Dutta;
2. PW- Sri Numal Chandra Dutta;
3. The victim X; and
4. PW- Dr. Nibedita Shyam.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Ejahar; and
2. Ext. 2 Medico-legal Report.
List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
