IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016
(G.R. Case No. 764 of 2016)
Pulibar P.S. Case No. 79 of 2016

Committing Magistrate:-

Smt. Bobidita Gogoi,
The then Judicial Magistrate 1* class,
Jorhat District

State of Assam

-Versus-

Md. Yakin Ali,

Son of Late Amjad Ali,

Resident of Negheriting, Dergaon,

P.S. Dergaon,

District-Golaghat. ... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri J.D. Sarma, Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 366 [A] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM

SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 18-08-2016 & 18-11-2016

Date of prosecution evidence : 06-01-2017; 07-08-2017; 20-12-2017
& 09-02-2018

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 08-03-2018

Date of Argument : 25-05-2018

Date of Judgment : 07-06-2018

SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Pulibar P.S. Case No.
79/2016 under Section 366 [A] of IPC was registered on the basis of a
F.I.R. lodged by Sri Dhan Bahadur Chetri, father of the victim girl [hereinafter
referred to as ‘X’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 16/03/2016 [Exhibit-2] the
informant Sri Dhan Bahadur Chetri [PW-3] who is the father of the victim girl
alleged, inter-a/ia, that on 14/03/2016 at about 6.30 P.M. his daughter was found
missing from the house. He searched for his daughter and in that process there
was delay in lodging the ejahar before police. Later on, the informant received
secret information that accused Md. Yakin Ali who is a resident of Negheriting,
P.S. Dergaon, District-Golaghat had kidnapped his minor daughter [X]. It is
further stated by the informant that his daughter had a mobile phone bearing
No. 7086890645 which was switched off after her missing from the house.

On receipt of the ejahar by the Officer-in-charge, Pulibar P.S, the
same was registered as Pulibar P.S. Case No. 79/2016 under Section 366 [A] of
IPC.

During the course of investigation, the statement of the victim
girl was recorded by the I.0. of the case. The victim girl was medically examined
by the doctor, her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was recorded. Police,
on completion of investigation, filed charge-sheet in the case against the above
named accused Md. Yakin Ali u/S. 366 [A] of IPC vide Charge-sheet No. 41/2016
dated 31-03-2016.

2). The learned Judicial Magistrate 1° class, Jorhat after furnishing
copies of the relevant documents to the accused u/S. 207 of Cr.P.C., transmitted

the case to this Court for trial.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the
prosecution in this behalf and on finding grounds for presuming that the accused
has committed offences under Section 366 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The

Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, the charges were framed,

SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016
read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded not guilty

and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 07 [seven] numbers of witnesses including
the victim, her father-cum-informant, Medical Officer and the I.O. were examined
on behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge against accused.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that he did not
kidnap the victim girl; that the victim girl had love affairs with him and she on
her own volition eloped with him. It is further version of the accused that he has
been falsely implicated in the case. He further stated that the instant case was
lodged by the father of victim due to misunderstanding of fact. The accused

pleaded innocence. No witness was adduced by the accused in his defence.

5). I have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor
for the State as well as Sri Jayanta Deva Sarmah, learned Counsel for the
accused who is facing trial for commission of offence u/S. 366 [A] of IPC read
with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on or about 14/03/2016 at about 6.30 P.M. at Saguri
Gaon under Pulibar P.S., the accused, induced the minor victim
to leave her parent house or to do any act with intent that she
will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse against her will
and consent and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 366 [A] of IPC?

2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused named above
committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl and
thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016
DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

7). First of all, let us see the definition of relevant provisions of law to the
charged sections against accused. These sections read as follows:

Section-366 [A]—Procuration of minor girl — Whoever, by any means
whatsoever, induces any minor girl under the age of eighteen years to
go from any place or to do any act with intent that such girl may be, or
knowing that it is likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse with another person shall be punishable with imprisonment

which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Section-4 — Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to

imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

8). To decide the above points and sections of law against accused in
this case, let us examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses
alongwith the documents.

The victim [PW-1] divulged during her testimony that about one
year back prior to the date of incident she knew the accused. On the date of
incident the accused visited her house and thereafter took her in a vehicle which
was driven by the accused. It is her further version that she alongwith the
accused reached to a house after about one hour where both of them stayed for
the night. Further version of the victim is that her father lodged ejahar before
police as she did not inform them before leaving the house. Police produced her
before the learned Magistrate where she gave statement before the learned
Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. Exhibit-1 is her statement wherein Exhibit-1
[1] and Exhibit-1 [2] are her signatures.

During cross-examination, she stated that she cannot say whether

she stated before police and Magistrate that accused took her in a vehicle to a

SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016
distant place. She categorically stated that she went with the accused without

informing her parent and resided with the accused for a week.

9). PW-2 is Smt. Jogomaya Chetri who is the mother of victim girl. It
is stated by this witness that on the date of incident she came back home in the
evening at about 5.00 P.M. and did not find her daughter in the house. Then she
alongwith her husband searched for the victim but she was found untraceable.
Hence, her husband lodged ejahar before police. Later on, they came to know
that the accused had taken her daughter to Nagaon wherefrom police recovered
her. Police recorded her statement, took her before a doctor for medico legal
check-up. Her daughter was also produced before the learned Magistrate for
recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. This witness also stated that
police seized the Admit Card of her daughter.

This witness during cross-examination testified that they lodged

case before police as her daughter did not inform them before leaving the house.

10). Sri Dhan Bahadur Chetri [PW-3] who is the father of victim-
cum-informant of the case stated in his evidence that he came to know about the
incident through his wife [PW-2]. Accordingly, he lodged ejahar before police. His
daughter was recovered from accused’ house after 5/6 days of her missing, her
statement was recorded by police. Police also took his daughter before a doctor
for medico legal check-up. She was also produced before the learned Magistrate
for recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. It is further stated by this
witness that police seized the photocopy of Admit Card of HSLC Examination of
her daughter vide Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is his signature. Police gave
zimma of the original certificate to him vide Zimmanama [Exhibit-4] wherein he
put his signature as Exhibit-4 [1]. He also exhibited the birth certificate of the
victim as Material Exhibit-1 as well as Admit Card of HSLC Examination as
Material Exhibit-2.

During cross-examination by defence, this witness stated that his
daughter resided with the accused for about one week and he cannot say for

what purpose his daughter went with the accused.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016
11). PW-4 is Sri Santabir Chetri who is the younger brother of
informant. His elder brother Sri Dnan Bahadur Chetri [PW-3] gave information to
him regarding missing of the victim. Accordingly, he visited the house of his elder
brother and came to know that the victim who is his niece had fled away with a
boy from Negheriting area.

This witness was declared hostile by prosecution and during

 

cross-examination by prosecution, this witness denied to have stated before
police that victim fled away with a young boy named ‘Yakin’ belonging to Muslim
community.

During cross-examination by defence side, he stated that he did not
state before police that victim fled away with a young boy named ‘Yakin’

belonging to Muslim community.

12). Dr. Amrita Nath [PW-5] during her evidence stated that on
21/03/2016 the victim was produced before her for medico-legal examination. On
examination of the victim, she found the victim to be above 16 years and below
18 years; no evidence of injury mark detected on the body of victim; no evidence
of recent sexual intercourse detected on her body and evidence of pregnancy
was not detected on the person of victim during medical examination. She
further stated in her report that hymen of victim was ruptured at 6 o’ clock
position with tenderness and redness present. The doctor exhibited her report as
Exhibit-5 and her signatures thereon as Exhibit-5 [1] to Exhibit-5 [3].

The doctor during cross-examination denied the fact that her

report is not a conclusive report.

13). Smt. Indira Chetri [PW-6] who is the aunt of victim testified
that her brother-in-law who gave information to her husband Sri Uday Chetri.
Accordingly, she visited the house of the informant and thereafter went to the
police station where she came to know from the victim that she went with the
accused for the purpose of travelling without informing her parent. It is her
further version that police seized the birth certificate of the victim in her presence

vide seizure-list [Exhibit-3] wherein she put her signature as Exhibit-3 [1].

SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016
14). Md. Sarif Hussain [PW-7] is the I.0. of the case. The I.O. stated
that on 16/03/2016 he was posted at Pulibar P.S. as A.S.I. of police. On that day
the then Officer-in-charge, Pulibar P.S. received ejahar from the informant and
thereafter a case was registered and he was directed to investigate the case.
Accordingly, he proceeded towards the house of informant, recorded statement
of witnesses who were acquainted with the fact and circumstance of the case. He
also drew Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index vide Exhibit-6
wherein Exhibit-6 [1] is his signature. He also visited the house of accused but
could not find him present in the house. However, he came to know from the
mother of accused that her son had fled away with a girl belonging to another
religion. On 20/03/2016, he recovered the victim from the possession of accused
from his house. Accused was arrested in connection with the case. He submitted
charge-sheet against the accused under Section 366-A IPC vide C.S. No. 41/2016
dated 31/03/2016. Exhibit-7 is the charge-sheet wherein Exhibit-7 [1] is his
signature.

The 1.0. stated that witness Sri Santabir Chetri [PW-4] during his
statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. stated that accused fled away with a girl of
Muslim community.

Defence declined to cross-examine the I.0. on all material

particulars.

15). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that the
victim knew the accused from before as she had love affair with him. From the
evidence of victim [PW-1] it is seen that she stayed alongwith the accused for
about one week which is fully corroborated by her father-cum-informant of the
case [PW-3] who during cross-examination stated that victim resided with the
accused for about one week but he cannot say for what purpose she went with

the accused.

16). It is seen from the evidence of Smt. Indira Chetri [PW-6] who is
the aunt of victim that when she met the victim at the police station alongwith
the accused, she questioned the victim about the incident, and to her query the

victim disclosed before her that she went with the accused for the purpose of

SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016
travelling without informing her parent. She stated that victim’s date of birth as
per Admit Card of HSLC Examination was 02/02/1999. The incident in question
took place on 14/03/2016. In that view of the matter, the victim was aged 17
[seventeen] years at the time of accident and she was at the verge of her

majority.

17). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. stated
that victim came to him voluntarily and the instant case was lodged by the father

of victim due to misunderstanding.

18). It is seen that medico legal report of the victim is found available
with the record. On close scrutiny of the medico legal report of the victim
conducted by the doctor [PW-5], the doctor has opined the age of victim to be

above sixteen years and below eighteen years at the time of incident.

19). It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole evidence of a
child witness is permissible, if such witness is found competent to testify and the
court, after careful scrutiny of its evidence.

In the case of Datttu Ramrao Sakhare-versus-State of
Maharashtra, reported in [1997] 5 SCC 341, the Hon’ble Apex Court has held
that — “A child witness if found competent to depose to the facts and
reliable one, such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other
words, even in the absence of oath, the evidence of a child witness can
be considered under Section 118 of Indian Evidence Act, provided that
such witness is able to understand the questions and able to give
rational answers thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility
thereof would depend upon the circumstance of each case. The only
precaution which the court should bear in mind while assessing the
evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be reliable one and
his/her demeanor must be like any other competent witness and there

is no likelihood of being tutored”.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016
20). The ratio as laid down in the above case is that the testimony of a
child witness is attributed the same kind of credibility that it attached to the
statement of any other witness if the testimony is consistent.

However, in the present case, the victim has not been found
consistent on the material particulars with regard to the incident which is not

even supported by her family members, i.e., PW-5 [her aunt].

21). On appreciation of the evidence on record as well as other facts and
circumstances of the case, it is found that there is no any allegation of forceful
abduction of the victim girl by the accused. The father of the victim [PW-3]
divulged that on the date of incident his daughter went on missing from the
school. Later on, he came to know that the accused had taken away his daughter
to his house.

Similarly, the victim girl has narrated the fact during examination
that as on the relevant day she accompanied the accused after the accused
visited her house in a vehicle. Victim categorically deposed in her evidence under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. that she stayed with accused for about one week which is
fully supported by her father-cum-informant of the case [PW-3]. She did not

specifically depose that accused induced her to leave the house of her parent.

22). In the instant case, it is seen that the victim girl went out voluntarily
with the accused though she was a minor at the time of occurrence, which has

been duly proved by the prosecution.

23). On scrutinizing the evidence on record it is seen that no full proof case
has been made out against accused Md. Yakin Ali to warrant his conviction under
Section 366 [A] IPC as well as under Section 4 of The Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, as victim stated nothing in her statement under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. [Exhibit-1] that accused had physical relation with her during
her stay in the house of the accused. Prosecution has not been able to make out
a case against the accused Md. Yakin Ali under the aforesaid sections of law
beyond reasonable doubt, for which, I am of the opinion that the accused is

entitled to acquittal under benefit of doubt which I accordingly do.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016
10

24). In the result, accused Md. Yakin Ali is acquitted of the charges
levelled against him on benefit of doubt and he is set at liberty forthwith from
the charges under Section 366-A of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

Accused is on bail. The bail bond of accused is extended for another

06 [six] months from today as per provision of Section 437-A Cr.P.C.

25). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 07th day of June
2018.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-11

SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016

10
11

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

 

 

 

PW-1 Victim girl.

PW-2 Smt. Jogomaya Chetri, mother of victim.

PW-3 Sri Dhan Bahadur Chetri, father of victim-cum-
informant of the case.

PW-4 Sri Santabir Chetri, younger brother of informant.

PW-5 Dr. Amrita Nath who examined the victim.

PW-6 Smt. Indira Chetri, aunt of victim.

PW-7 Md. Sarif Hussain, I.O. of the case.

 

 

COURT WITNESS:- NIL
EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

   
  
   
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Statement of the victim recorded by the Magistrate
under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Seizure-list

Exhibit-4 Zimmanama

Exhibit-5 Medico-legal report

 

Exhibit-6 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index
Exhibit-7 Charge-sheet

   

 

 

 

MATERIAL EXHIBIT NO-1:- NIL

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016 1 1
SPECIAL CASE NO. 74 OF 2016

12

12
