Page 1 of 18

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

 

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused\u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel.for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

48 OF 2017
(Under Section 448/354 of IPC
r/w section 8 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 3297
of 2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
State of Assam

-“VSs-
Md. Nabi Sah
Son of Hafiz-Sah,
Resident. of No-1, Dolabari,
Police Station — Tezpur,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
21/09/2017

16/11/2017, 07/02/2018 &
19/02/2018

19/02/2018

20/02/2018

22/02/2018.

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Mr. F. Jaman, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md. Nabi Sah is put for trial for allegation of charge
under Section 448/354 of IPC r/w section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

 
Page 2 of 18

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that the informant
resides along with her family at No-1, Dolabari of Gutlong village under Tezpur
PS in the land on one Moina Mahajan. On 20.08.2017 taking advantaged of
absence of the informant and the other family members, the accused trespassed
into their house, closed the door from inside and attempt to commit rape on the
informant’s 13 years old minor daughter and while the said daughter raised alarm
the accused fled away from there. It has been also stated by the informant that
the accused has threatened her while the informant informed the matter to, the
villagers and therefore, it becomes delay in lodging the FIR. Hence, the
prosecution case. The FIR was filed by one Must Jomila Begum, before the O/C
Tezpur Police Station on 25.08.2017.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of Tezpur
Police Station registered a case being Tezpur«P.S. Case No 1726/17, under
section 448/506 of IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO. Act, 2012 and endorsed S.I.
Malindra Kumar Borah to investigate ‘the case. After completion of usual
investigation, the O/C Tezpur Police Station*sent up the accused for trial by filing
charge sheet u/s 448/506 of IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused Md. Nabi Sah.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
parties, my learned predecessor-in-court framed charge under section 448/354 of
IPC r/w section.8 of the POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused and particulars of
the charge-was read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not guilty

and claims to_be tried.

5: To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as seven
numbers of witnesses. After completion of prosecution evidence, accused was
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and
evidence appears against the accused are put before him for explanation where
he denied the evidence. To buttress the defence, the accused declined to give

defence evidence.

6. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of both the

parties.

 
Page 3 of 18

7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether the accused on or about 6:30 PM
of 20.08.2017 at Gotlung under Tezpur PS,
committed criminal trespass by entering into
the house of the informant Jamila Begum and
thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 448 of IPC?

(2) "Whether the accused on the same date,
time and place, assaulted Miss "X", 13 years.of
age (or used criminal force to,a woman,
intending to outrage) (or knowing tt to.be likely
that you would thereby outrage the modesty of
the said Miss "X”) and thereby committed an

offence punishable under section 354 of IPC?

(3) “Whether the accused on the same date,
time and place. had committed penetrative
sexual assault on the victim Miss "X” (13 years)
and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 8 of the Protection of Child from

Sexual Offences Act?

REASONS, DECISIONS AND REASON FOR DECISION.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on
record.
9. PW 1, Must Jamila Begum, who is the mother of Miss “X” has stated

that she knows the accused person and the incident took place about 2 12
months ago. She stated that at the time of incident, her victim daughter was only
about 13 years old. On the date of the alleged incident, leaving her victim
daughter in her home, she along with her three daughters went to her parental
home to consult a doctor at Balipara. On that day, her husband Unus Ali and her

victim daughter Miss “X” was at home. She returned back at the evening time at

 
Page 4 of 18

about 7 PM and on their arrival at home at 7 PM, her victim daughter told her
that while her father went out to market at about 5:30 PM, accused, who is her
relative brother-in-law came to their house. During that time her victim daughter
Miss “X” was sleeping in bed playing mobile. Thereafter, accused grabbed her
breast and attempted to open her pant, then, she resisted him by kicking him
and raised alarm and thereafter, accused fled away from there. She also stated
that her victim daughter also reported the matter to her father while her father
arrived at home. Therefore, they have discussed the matter with their relatives
and after 2/3 days, she has filed the ejahar. She has requested_one:scribe to
write the ejahar. According to her dictation, the scribe has written the ejahar.
After writing the ejahar, the scribe has read over the ejahar and)on acceptance,

she put her thumb impression thereon.

10. In her cross examination, she admitted that.she cannot re-call the exact
date of occurrence. On the date of the incident at morning, she went to her
parental home and in the evening time at about’7 PM she reached at her home.
She stated that there is a small road.in between her house and accused's house.
They have visiting terms. She has quite often taken some money from accused

being her brother-in-law.

11. PW 2, Md. Unus Ali, father of the victim has stated in his evidence-in-
chief that accusedsis his cousin. The incident took place about 2 %2 months ago.
On the dateof the-alleged incident, his wife went to Balipara to a consult doctor
by taking other three daughters leaving the victim girl alone in the house. He
stated that at about 4:30 PM, he went out to Centre for marketing and returned
at about 6:30 to 7 PM. Thereafter, his victim daughter reported him that accused
came to their house while she was playing mobile in the bed. Accused dragged
by holding her hand and lying on the bed and attempted to open her clothes. His
victim daughter narrated the whole story to her mother in detail. While she raised
alarm, accused fled away from there. He stated that at the relevant time, his
daughter was about 13 years old and studied at Class-VII. Accused being his

relative, so, they called him and thereafter, his wife filed the case lately.

 
Page 5 of 18

12. Though, he has been exposed to long cross-examination except giving
many suggestions, the evidence as to on the date of the alleged incident on the
date of the alleged incident, his wife went to Balipara to consult a doctor by
taking other three daughters leaving the victim girl alone in the house. At about
6:30 to 7 PM, he returned from the centre and came to know from his daughter
that accused came to their house while she was playing mobile in the bed.
Accused dragged by holding her hand and lying on the bed and attempted to
open her clothes. His victim daughter narrated the whole story to her mother in

detail. While she raised alarm, accused fled away has remained unchallenged.

13. PW 3, Md. Nurul Amin stated before this court that the accused is his
next door neighbour. He knows the complainant of this case.“He belongs to his
sane village. The incident took place about 2 Y2 months‘ago. Father of the victim,
as neighbour, went to his house and reported him.that accused entered into their

home while the victim was alone and forcefully dragged her.

14, Though, he has been exposed to long cross-examination except giving
many suggestions, the evidence as.to_he admitted that father of the victim, as
neighbour, reported him that_accused entered into their house while the victim

was alone and forcefully dragged her has remained unchallenged.

15. PW 4, Miss “X" victim of this case stated before this court that
accused is her related uncle. They did not have any quarrelled with the accused.
The incident-took. place about 2 %2 months back at about 6 PM on Sunday. She
stated that.on the previous day of the incident her mother, two younger sisters
and onexelder sister went to Balipara to their matrimonial uncle’s house.
Therefore, at the relevant time her mother was not there. Though, her father
was’at home, he went to market. During that time while she was sleeping playing
with mobile, accused came to her home and asked for some tobacco. Then she
replied to accused that there is no tobacco available in their house. Thereafter,
accused sitted at the side of her and also watching mobile with her. During that
time she woke up from her bed then accused grabbed her breast. Though, she
tried to woke up but the accused forcefully dragged her to the bed and
attempted to open her cloths, out of fear she raised alarm and kicked him,

thereafter, accused fled away from there. She stated that accused came to

 
Page 6 of 18

commit misdeeds to her. On arrival of her mother she reported the same to her
mother. After 2/3 days of the institutions of this instant case she made statement
before the Ld. Magistrate. Ext 1 is her statement u/s 164 CrPC made before the
Ld. Magistrate and Ext 1 (1-2) is signatures therein.

16. Though, she has been exposed to long cross-examination except giving
many suggestions, the evidence as to at the relevant time while her parents were
not there at home, she was watching mobile then the accused came to her home
and wants some tobacco. Thereafter, she stated there were no tobaccos
available in their house then the accused sitted in the bed where she was
watching mobile. The accused also see the mobile and when she’was got up
from the bed accused touched her breast and forcefully took her to the bed and
tried to put off her clothes, out of fear she raised alarm and kicked the accused

has remained unchallenged.

17. PW 5, Must Amina Khatoon, who,.turned hostile stated before this
court that she knows the accused standing in the dock, his house is situated at a
difference of 2-3 houses of her house. She also knows the informant of this case
and her house is around 200.meter away from her house. She stated that the
mother of the victim informed her that accused had taken money from her. She
knows nothing about the.incident. Police recorded her statement. Thereafter, she

was turned hostile.

18. PW°6, SI Molindra Kumar Borah, who is the I/O of this case has
stated that. on)25.08.2017 he was posted at Mahabhoirab OP as In-charge of
Mahabhoirab OP and on that day one Jamila Begum filed an ejahar before the
Tezpur PS, which was registered as Tezpur PS Case No. 1726/17 u/s 448/506 r/w
section 4 of POCSO Act and accordingly, O/C Tezpur PS Mr. Ranjit Saikia
endorsed him for investigation. In the FIR lodged by the complainant, the
complainant put thumb impression thereon. Ext 2 is the ejahar and Ext 2 (1) is
the note with signature of O/C, Tezpur PS. On being taken the charge of
investigation, he has visited the place f occurrence and prepared sketch map. Ext
3 is the sketch map wherein he put his signature as Ext 3 (1). He stated that he
has also examined the victim and sent her for medical examination and then also

sent to the Court for recording her statement under section 164 CrPC. He also

 
Page 7 of 18

recorded the statement of the other witnesses. Thereafter, he arrested the
accused and forwarded him to the Court. After completion of usual investigation,
finding sufficient materials, he has filed charge sheet against the accused person
under section 448/506 of IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act. Ext 4 is the charge
sheet and Ext 4 (1) is his signature. Though, he has sent the victim for medical
examination, but, the victim did not consent and allow doctor for examination.

Ext 5 is the prayer for medical examination and Ext 5 (1) is his signature.

He has recorded the statement of Amina Khatoon, who stated before
him that “ Unus Ali resides near their house. On or about 6:30 PM of,20.08.2017
she was at home and on that day, wife of the said Unus Ali namely.Jamila Begum
was absent in their house since morning. In the evening time-her husband was
also went to the market and during that time their 13 years old minor daughter
was only there. Taking advantage of the absence of the other family members,
accused trespassed into their house and committed misdeeds to the said minor
girl by threatening her to open the clothes. When the girl raised alarm the
accused returned from there. The accused isa stupid person. He was involved in
such incident in earlier also. Ext 6 is the case diary of Tezpur PS Case No.
1726/17 (GR Case No. 3297/17) and Ext 6 (1) is the relevant portion of the

statement of Amina Khatoon and Ext 6 (2) is his signature.

19. In his cross examination, he admitted that at the relevant time there
was no woman SI\posted in Tezpur PS. In Ext 3 the sketch map which he
prepared he has mentioned the house of Innas Ali, Samir Das, Firoj Ali and Babul
Ali near.the place of occurrence. He has recorded the statement of the victim at
the~police station. He has also recorded the other witnesses at the place of

occurrence.

20. PW 7, Smt. Achma Rahman is the Addl. Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Tezpur stated that on 26.08.2017 she was posted as a SDJM(S), Tezpur. On that
day, in reference to Tezpur PS Case No. 1726 of 2017 u/s 448/506 of IPC r/w 4
of POCSO Act, she has recorded the statement of one Nazima Begum, daughter
of Md. Unus Ali of village Gotlung under Tezpur PS in her chamber. At the time of
recording of the statement, other than she and the said witness, none was

present there. The witness made statement voluntarily. After recording her

 
Page 8 of 18

statement, she has read over the contents of the statement and on acceptance,
the said victim put her signature thereon. The victim was escorted and identified
by one Home Guard Purnima Boro. Ext 1 is the statement of the victim u/s 164 of
CrPC and Ext 1 (3) is the signature of PW 7. Ext 7 is the relevant order dated
26.08.2017 for recording the statement u/s 164 CrPC passed by herself and Ext 7

(1) is her signature. Her cross examination was declined by the defence side.

21. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence plea is

total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

22. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution has
failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, the sole evidence
of the victim cannot be relied on as her statement made before the court is not
tallied with the statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,particularly as to allegation of
touching her breast. Secondly, there are many contradictions in the statements
of the witnesses. Thirdly, there is a wide difference of her statement made
before the Court under section 164 CrPC and her statement made under section
161 CrPC.

To fortify his argument.Jearned counsel for the accused submitted the
following case laws: “Atul Baishya -vs- State of Assam & Anr reported in
2017 (2) GLT 844".

23. On the other hand, Learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond any reasonable
doubt“Hence, the accused person is required to be convicted under the charged
sections.of law. Ld. Special Public Prosecutor also submitted that in fact there is
no any quarrel, no any enmity between the accused and the complainant. Even if
there is any short of strangulation between the accused and the complainant, it
would not be extracted from the complainant involved in her own minor daughter
is such a hat rate cases. Ld. Special Public Prosecutor again submitted that PW 1
and PW 2 are the mother and the father of the victim, therefore, question may
arise as to their interestedness to succeed the case. To rely the interested
witnesses in convicting the accused, Ld. Special Public Prosecutor submitted the
case of Gali Venkataiah Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh reported in 2008

 
Page 9 of 18

Cri.L.J. 690. In regard to minor discrepancies, Learned Special PP also
submitted the case law of State of UP V. Krishna Master & ors reported in
2010 Crl.L.J.3889.

24. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the learned

counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

25. I have thoroughly perused the case laws cited by the learned Senior

Counsel for the accused.

26. After going through the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses, it is seen
except the victim, there is no eye witness to the incident, but after the incident,
the victim informed about the incident to her mother and later on her mother

informed the matter to her father which are corroborated.

According to PW 1, the mother of the victim, she knows the accused. At
the time of incident, her victim daughter was 13 years of age. She left her victim
daughter in her house. She along with her three daughters went to her parental
house to consult a doctor at Balipara.. On that day, her husband Unus Ali and her
victim daughter Miss “X” was at home. She returned back at the evening time at
about 7 PM and on their arrival at home at 7 PM, her victim daughter told her that
while her father went out‘to market at about 5:30 PM, accused, who is her relative
brother-in-law came to their house, while the victim was sleeping in bed playing
mobile. Thereafter, accused grabbed her breast and attempted to open her pant,
then, she resisted him by kicking him and raised alarm and thereafter, accused
fled away from there. Thereafter, they had discussed the matter with her relatives
and“after.2/3 days, she has requested one scribe to write the ejahar. According to
her dictation, the scribe has written the ejahar. After writing the ejahar, the scribe
has read over the ejahar and on acceptance, she put her thumb impression

thereon.

PW 2, the father of the victim also stated the same. He stated that on the
date of the alleged incident, his wife went to Balipara to a consult doctor by taking
other three daughters leaving the victim girl alone in the house. At about 4:30 PM,
he went out to Centre for marketing and returned at about 6:30 to 7 PM.

Thereafter, his victim daughter reported him that accused came to their house

 
Page 10 of 18

while she was playing mobile in the bed. Accused dragged by holding her hand
and lying on the bed and attempted to open her clothes. His victim daughter
narrated the whole story to her mother in detail. While she raised alarm, accused
fled away from there. He stated that at the relevant time, his daughter was
playing with mobile and her accused uncle came and asked for tobacco, while she
replied to him that there is no tobacco available in their house then the accused
sitted in the bed and also watching the mobile. During that time she woke up
from her bed then accused grabbed her breast. Though, she tried to woke up, but
the accused forcefully dragged her to the bed and attempted to open her*cloths,
out of fear she raised alarm and kicked him, thereafter, accused, fled away from

there. She stated that accused came to commit misdeeds to_her.

Though all the aforesaid witnesses PW 1 and 2 were exposed to long
cross-examination but the evidence as to the victim_on,the day of incident she was
watching mobile then the accused came to their house and asked for tobacco and
she told him that there is no available of tobacco the accused sitted at the side of
the victim at the bed and also watching the mobile. While she woke up from her
bed then accused grabbed her breast, forcefully dragged her to the bed and

attempted to open her cloths has.remained unchallenged.

27. The Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution has
failed to prove the<age of the victim as they have not been seized any school
certificate or date of Birth certificate of victim to ascertain the age. Therefore, the
case cannot-be.stated to be fallen under POCSO Act.

28. It is true that in the present case there is no document like Birth
certificate or age certificate or any certificate issued by the School authority where
the-victim first studied or any certificate issued by local Panchayat etc. to prove
the victim that she was 13 years at the time of incident. But she has not been
medically examined neither done the ossification test. That has not been
challenged by the defence at any point of time in any of the cross examination of

any of the witnesses. Therefore, it can safely be held that the victim was a minor.

29. In the case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State, represented by the
Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD), it was held that it is true that

 
Page 11 of 18

primary evidence to prove the date of birth of the individual may be preferably
the birth certificate. But, it cannot be said that in absence of birth certificate, the
date of birth cannot be proved. When the age of the individual is not disputed,
the question of proving the same does not arise at all. It is the settled law that a
fact in issue or any relevant fact or any fact relevant to the issue, which is
disputed by the adverse party alone, needs proof. If it is not disputed, there is no

need to lead any evidence in proof of the said admitted fact.

30. In this case, the victim and her parents categorically stated the age of
the victim as 13 years from the very beginning of the case,.at\the time of
commission of offence, besides during cross examination, the.same has not been
disputed at all by the accused side. Thus, the evidence of PWs 1, 2 and 4 in

respect of age of the victim remains unchallenged.

31. In this case, the victim has been consistent on the material particulars
with regard to the incident that on the day of incident, while she was alone in her
house playing mobile, accused trespassedhinto their house asking for tobacco and
while the victim stated that therevis no,available of any tobacco accused sitted at
the side of the victim in the bed»and also watching the mobile with her. While
she woke up from her bed‘then accused grabbed her breast, forcefully dragged
her to the bed andxattempted to open her cloths. The victim also made such
statement before the\learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. which was confirmed by
learned Magistrate-(PW 7). She has also made such statement before the I.O.
while her statement was recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Though the victim has been
vigorously» cross-examined by the learned counsel for the accused but the
evidence as to while she was watching mobile in absence of her parents accused
trespassed into their house asking for a tobacco then she replied to accused that
there is no available for tobacco then the accused sitted in the bed and tried to
fell down in the said bed, and attempted to open her cloths and also tried to
commit misdeeds to her has remained unchallenged. There is nothing in the
evidence of the PWs that the accused had any enmity or quarrel with the
complainant to file the case falsely against the accused. Therefore, defence of

false allegation is not made out.

 
Page 12 of 18

32. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan Vs. Babu Muna
(2013) 4 SCC 206, has observed as under :-

“9. We do not have any slightest hesitation in accepting the broad
submission of Mr. Jain that the conviction be based on the sole testimony
of the prosecutrix, it found to be worthy of credence and reliable and for
that no corroboration is required. It has often been said that oral
testimony can be clarified into three categories, namely, (i) wholly
reliable, (ii) whole unreliable and (iii) neither wholly reliablecnor wholly
unreliable. In case of wholly reliable testimony of single*witness, the
conviction can be found without corroboration. This principle’applies with
greater in terms in case the nature of offence is such that it is committed
in seclusion. In case prosecution is based on«wholly unreliable testimony

of single witness but the court has no option to acquit the accused.”

33. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any:such lapse on the part of accused is
not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered much as prosecution
is Supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts. However,
in a case under POCSO Act, the ‘situation is not so. In this regard, it will be
worthwhile to refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

34. U/s. 29 of POCSOQ Act, a mandatory presumption for certain offence is
to be drawn against‘the accused in a prosecution for certain offences and same

reads as under:

“29, Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence u/s.3, 5,
7 and Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such
person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as

the case may be, unless the contrary is proved.

35. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special Court shall
draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state of the accused
where culpable mental state is required on the part of the accused. Section 30

reads as under:

 
Page 13 of 18

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any prosecution for
any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the
part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume that existence of
such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the
fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as

an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when
the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not
merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of

probabilities.

36. According Similarly whenever any law prescribes, that the Court shall
presume the existence of culpable mandatory state or to draw a presumption
regarding commission of any offence, unless the contrary is proved, the onus to
prove the contrary undoubtedly shifts upon the accused. Certainly, it does not
discharge the prosecution of its duty to first/establish and prove the facts, the
existence of which can only lead to‘drawing of any such compulsory presumption
or legal presumption by the use ofthe expression “shall presume”. Thus, as per
Section 29, if a person is prosecuted for committing or abating or attempting to
commit any offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and 9 of POCSO Act, the Special Court shall
presume that such<person has committed or abated or attempted to commit the
said offence as.the\case may be unless the contrary is proved. However, in the
present casepthe accused has completely failed in discharging his burden even

by preponderance of probabilities much less beyond reasonable doubt.

37. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be recorded on the
sole testimony of a child witness or not? Such issue was dealt by the Hon’ble
Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are

reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On the contrary,
Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may testify — all persons

shall be competent to testify unless the Court considers that they are prevented

 
Page 14 of 18

from understanding the questions put to them, or from giving rational answers
to those questions, by tender years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body

or mind, or any other cause of the same kind.”

38. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has
intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational answers thereto.
The evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected per se, but the
Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with close scrutiny and only
on being convinced about the quality thereof and reliability can record conviction,

based thereon.

39. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra, (1997)
5 SCC 341, it was held that a child witness if found competent to depose to the
facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis»of conviction. In other
words, even in the absence of oath the evidence of a child witness can be
considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to
understand the questions and able to give rational answer thereof. The evidence
of a child witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of
each case. The only precaution which the Court should bear in mind while
assessing the evidence of a.child witness is that the witness must be a reliable
one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent witness and there

is no likelihood of being tutored.

40. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs — State of
Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on the question
whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence primarily rests with the trial
Judge who notices his manners, his apparent possessions or lack of intelligence,
andthe said Judge may resort to any examination which will tend to disclose his
Capacity and intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an
oath.

41. In the present case, at the time of examination of the victim, some
questions were put to her and she replied the same without any hesitation and
this Court hold that the victim was able to give rational answers and thereafter

her statement was recorded on oath. Apart from that, other witnesses including

 
Page 15 of 18

the parents of the victim i.e. PW 1 and 2 also supported the evidence of PW 4
(victim). As submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused that it is a fact that in
the statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 CrPC, she did not state that
accused at the relevant time grabbed her breast but other than that the
statement of accused dragged the victim to the bed and tried to open her clothes
has remained unchallenged. Therefore, the aforesaid statements are nothing but
a minor contradiction even after ignoring that contradiction but the ,other
statement attracted the ingredients of under section 18 of the POCSO Act.

42. On appreciation of the evidence given by the victim, hersparents and
other independent witnesses, I find that the accused attempted to.sexual assault
on the victim. As it appears from the statement of the victim, and’other witnesses
that accused at the relevant time entered into the<house of the complainant,
dragged the victim to the bed while the victim wokevup the accused attempted to
open her clothes with intent to attempts sexual assault. So, the offence of sexual

assault is not completed but the accused attempted to cause sexual assault.

43. In regard to the age of the victim, it appears that though all the
witnesses stated that the victim was 13 (Thirteen) years. Therefore, committing
any sexual offence against that girl of 13 years is well within the come under the
offence of POCSO Act.

44. Considering that aspect, the offence of the accused cannot be stated to
be attempted*to ‘commit aggravated sexual assault but attempt to commit sexual
assault. Therefore, accused Md. Nabi Sah is convicted u/s 18 of the POCSO Act.

45: The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he praying for
leniency stating that he is the only bread earner of his family consisted of his

mother.

46. I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well as learned Public

Prosecutor, Sonitpur.

47. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that while
deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court should strike a

balance between aggravating circumstances and mitigating circumstances. The

 
Page 16 of 18

aggravating circumstances relate to the crime and mitigating circumstances
relate to the criminal. In this case, so far as the aggravating circumstances are
concerned, a minor girl was sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is
not only to the body but also to the mind of not only to the victim but that of
entire family members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the
accused was hardly 26 years of age at the time of the incident. It is not brought
to the notice of this Court that before this incident, the accused had committed
any other offence. There is likelihood of his reformation, but the statute u/s:18 of
POCSO Act a punishment for any description provided for the offence, for-a term
which may extend to one-half of the imprisonment for life or,as the case may
be, one-half of the longest term of imprisonment provided. for that offence or
with fine or with both.

O R_D E R

48. I convict the accused Md. Nabi Sah u/s. 18 of POCSO Act and sentence
him to Simple Imprisonment for Fifteen days and to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/-
(Rupees Five thousand only) in default Simple Imprisonment for another 30
days. It appears from the record\that the accused has been in custody from
26.08.2017 to 21.09.2017.-Therefore, the period in which the accused detained

in custody shall be set off from the period imprisonment imposed upon him.

49. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is. permissible in law. After going through the statement of
witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To mitigating
the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an amount of Rs. 10,000/-

(Rupees Ten thousand) only is awarded as compensation.

50. The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur be

asked to give the compensation to the mother of the victim after proper enquiry.

51. Let a copy of the Judgment be sent to the Secretary, District Legal Aid

Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur for necessary action.

52. A copy of this judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost

immediately.

 
Page 17 of 18

53. Let another copy of Judgment be sent to learned District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur, u/s 365 of Cr.P.C.

54. Let the G.R Case No. 3297/2017 be sent to Ld. committal Court along with

a copy of Judgment.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 22" day of
February, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken-and transcribed by me:

Sri Janmoni, Deka, Steno
i U1 Be

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7

Exhibit 1 7
Exhibit 2 a
Exhibit 3 ~
Exhibit 4 -
Exhibit 5 =
Exhibit 6 i

Exhibit 6(1)._ :-

Exhibit 7 :-

1. NIL

Page 18 of 18

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

‘- Must Jamila Begum, Informant

‘- Md. Unus Ali

‘- Md. Nurul Amin

‘- Miss “X”, Victim

= Must Amina Khatoon

- SI Molindra Kumar Borah, I/O

- Smt. Achma Rahman, Addl..\ C.J.M,
Tezpur

EXHIBITS.

Statement of the victim Miss “X” U/s 164 CrPC
FIR

Sketch Map

Charge Sheet

Prayer for Medical Examination

Case)Diary of Tezpur PS Case No. 1726/17
(GR Case No. 3297/17)

Statement of witness Amina Khatoon

Order of Ld. Magistrate Smt. Achma Rahman,

Material Exhibit.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
