IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE = sitveiee. CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

ecial (P se No. 21(D)/2017
U/S 366/376 IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam

Vs.
Sri Kalyan Ray ..........-- Accused
PRESENT : Sri D.J. Mahanta,
Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.
ADVOCATES APPEARED:
For the State : Sri D. Das, Public Prosecutor
For the accused + Sri P. Sarma, Advocate
Date of evidence : 21.03.2018

Date of Argument : 29.03.2018
Date of Judgment : 29.03.2018

&
xD JUDGMENT AND ORDER
C4 Po0
yp a2 1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 11.07.2017, the
S
~. ee accused Kalyan Ray kidnapped the 17 years old daughter of the informant and

committed rape on her forcefully.

2. The matter was informed to the O/C, Dhaligaon Police Station
who accordingly registered a case being Dhaligaon P.S. Case No. 181/17 U/S
366/376 IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted S.I. Samir
Bhusan Banik, I/C, Dangtol O.P. to investigate the case. Accordingly, the

Investigating Officer arrested the accused, visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical
examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164 CrPC and after completion of
investigation, submitted charge-sheet against the accused Kalyan Ray U/S
366/376 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. After receiving charge sheet,
copies of relevant documents were furnished to the accused person. Accused
was produced before the court from jail. On perusal of police papers and
hearing both sides, having found a prima facie case, My learned predecessor
framed charge U/S 366/376 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act against the
accused.

3. In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as 3

(three) witnesses.

4. Following witnesses are examined:-
(1) Smt. Duleswari Choudhury as PW 1
(2) Smt. Gunebala Choudhury as PW 2
(3) Victim as PW 3

5. FIR was exhibited as Ext. 1. Statement of the victim U/S 164

N Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext. 2.
~
nid
Oy’ pret Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.
g & “ “ar
“<o 7. Heard argument from both sides.

8. Now points for consideration:-
For the offence U/S 366 of IPC

1. Whether on 11.07.2017 the accused kidnapped the victim, the
daughter of the informant, a woman with intent that she might
be compelled to marry him against her will or in order (or
knowing it to be likely) that she might be forced (or seduced)

to illicit intercourse with him ?
For the offence U/S 376 of IPC

2. Whether after the said date at his house, the accused

committed rape on the victim ?

For the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act

3. Whether on the said date and place, the accused committed

penetrative sexual assault on the victim ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

 

9. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record regarding above mentioned all points simultaneously for the sake of

convenience.

10. PW 1 is the informant of this case and she is the mother of the

victim. She deposed that occurrence took place on 11.07.17. According to PW

1, at that time her daughter PW 3 was reading in Class XII. She further

deposed that date of birth of the victim is 18.03.2000. PW 1 clearly stated that

victim eloped with the accused without their consent. On the date of

occurrence, she went to the house of her friend situated within their village

@ but she did not return. They waited her till 8/9 PM but she was not returned.

i They did not search her because they thought that she stayed the night in her

\y yoiends home. But on next day also, she did not return. On next day, father of
watt “ axatie accused informed the husband of the PW 1 through mobile phone that
we their daughter PW 3 went to their house. They asked them to return the girl
but they did not do so. PW 3 stayed there for a period of 2 months. After two

months, when their daughter PW 3 informed them that family members of the

accused tortured her, she lodged the FIR before Dhaligaon P.S. Then police

recovered the girl from the house of the accused. Victim stayed in their house

for a period of 3 months. After that she again fled away from their home and

took shelter in the house of the accused. Both of them were living together as

husband and wife prior to filing of the case and at present, they are living

peacefully. During cross-examination informant stated that she had no any

objection against the accused. According to PW 1, due to love affairs her
daughter fled away and took shelter in the house of the accused. They had no

knowledge about their relationship.

11. PW 2 Smt. Gunebala Choudhury is the grandmother of the
victim. She also stated same thing which was stated by PW 1. This witness
clearly stated that after knowing the fact that PW 3 eloped with the accused
and took shelter in their home, they did not take any step for her return. They
allowed the victim to stay thereon. The case was lodged by PW 1 because
victim reported that she was tortured by mother-in-law as deposed by PW 2.
According to this witness, she had three granddaughters and one grandson.
The present age of her eldest granddaughter is about 23/24 years and after
two years from the birth of eldest granddaughter, present victim was born.

According to PW 2, due to love affairs victim fled away voluntarily.

12. The victim who is the important witness in this case was

examined as PW 3. She deposed that she developed love affairs with the

accused two years prior to the incident. On the date of occurrence, she fled

away voluntarily and took shelter in the house of accused. At first, she met

the accused at Bhairobi hotel situated at Subhash Nagar. After that she went

L to the house of accused and stayed thereon. After one month social marriage

*, took place between her and accused. Prior to her marriage, she was sleeping

\ p or oemith grandmother of the accused. Her mother lodged the case as because

a
oo eet

x? forcefully from the house of the accused and kept her in the house of PW 1.

they did not agree with her relationship with accused. She was taken

She stayed in her parental home for a period of 3 months. After that she
again fled away and took shelter in the house of accused. Since then she has
been living with the accused as husband and wife. This witness clearly stated
that prior to filing of this case she and accused were living together as
husband and wife after performing social marriage. She has no any allegation
against the accused. According to this witness, no any physical relation took
place prior to their marriage. She further deposed that at the time of
investigation, she stated before the Judicial Magistrate same fact as stated
before this Court. During the cross-examination, she stated that on the date of
occurrence, she took the scooty of her elder sister. At that time, her age was

about 19 years. This witness further deposed that it was wrongly mentioned in
her birth certificate that she was born in the year 2000. Her mother-in-law did
not torture her but this fact was stated in the FIR because same was tutored
by her sister and mother.

13. After going through the entire evidence given by three material
witnesses, I have found that at the time of occurrence age of the victim was
above 17 years. Victim clearly stated that her age was above 18 years but no
any document was submitted in this respect. According to PW 3, she eloped
with the accused willfully. She stayed in the house of the accused for a period
of one month. After one month, social marriage took place and after that case
was lodged. PW 2, grandmother of the victim stated that after knowing the
fact that victim took shelter in the house of the accused, they allowed her to
stay there. It reflects nothing but the knowledge of the guardian of PW 3 that
there was relationship and due to relationship, their daughter/granddaughter
eloped with the accused willfully. It is also found from the evidence of PW 1, 2
and 3 that case was lodged only after knowing the fact that mother-in-law of
the victim tortured her. On the other hand, PW 3 during her cross-examination
stated that her mother-in-law did not torture her but this allegation was
tutored by her mother and sister. According to this witness, at present both of

them i.e. she and accused are living together as husband and wife. It is also

found from the evidence that at the time of filing of the case, accused and

victim were living together as husband and wife. PW 3 clearly stated that
social marriage took place prior to filing of this case and after the marriage,
they were living together. Another fact which is revealed from the evidence is
that victim was forcefully taken away to her parental home and she stayed
there for a period of 3 months only. After that she again fled away to the
house of the accused. This conduct of the victim reflects nothing but their love
affairs. According to the victim, her father, mother and other family members
did not support their relationship. They did not want to marry her to the
accused. As there was no consent on the part of the parents and family
members of the victim, this case was lodged by stating false story as stated
by the victim. The parents also allowed the victim to stay in the house of the
accused for a period of 2 months. They knew that social marriage took place
between the accused and the victim and they were living together as husband

and wife for which no case was lodged at that time. After two months, they
lodged the case alleging that in-laws of the victim tortured her. So, no case
was established U/S 4 of POCSO Act. Section 376 IPC was also not attracted

because after marriage, physical relationship took place as husband and wife.

14. Another charge was framed U/S 366 IPC. From the evidence of
victim, I have found that she fled away willfully. Not only one time, she had
fled away two times. If she was minor, consent of her parents is necessary as
argued by learned P.P. From the evidence of victim, it is not revealed that
accused took her from their home. She met the accused at Bhairobi hotel and
after that she asked the accused to take her to their home. So, taking of

victim by the accused is not proved beyond all reasonable doubt.

15. Though learned P.P. pointed out that accused may be convicted
U/S 363 IPC, but learned defence counsel pointed out that present case is not
covered by Section 363 IPC also.

16. Now, I want to discuss the relevant provision of law regarding
kidnapping.
17. Section 361 IPC defined kidnapping as follows:

“361. Kidnapping from lawful guardianship:

a Whoever takes or entices any minor under 16 years of age if a

male, under 18 years of age if a female, or any person of
unsound mind, out of the keeping of the lawful guardian of
such minor or person of unsound mind, without the consent of
such guardian, is said to kidnap such minor or person from
lawful guardianship.”

18. In the case of § VARADARAJAN VS. STATE OF
MADRAS reported in AIR 1965 SC 942. The Hon'ble Apex
Court regarding section 361 IPC held as follows:

“9, It must, however, be borne in mind that there is a
distinction between ‘taking’ and allowing a minor to accompany

@ person. The two expressions are not synonymous though we
would like to guard ourselves from laying down that in no
conceivable circumstances can the two be regarded as meaning
the same thing for the purposes of S. 361 of the Indian Penal
Code. We would limit ourselves to a case like the present
where the minor alleged to have been taken by the accused
person left her father’s protection knowing and having capacity
to know the full import of what she was doing voluntarily joins
the accused person. In such a case we do not think that the
accused can be said to have taken her away from the keeping
her lawful guardian. Something more has to be shown in a case
of this kind and that is some kind of inducement held out by
the accused person or an active participation by him in the
formation of the intention of the minor to leave the house of
the guardian.

10. It would, however, be sufficient if the prosecution
establishes that though immediately prior to the minor leaving
the fathers protection no active part was played by the
accused, he had at some earlier stage solicited or persuaded to
the minor to do so. In our opinion, if evidence to establish one

of those things is lacking it would not be legitimate to infer that

the accused Is guilty of taking the minor out of the keeping of

the lawful guardian merely because after she has actually left
her guardian’s house or a house where her guardian had kept
her, joined the accused and the accused helped her in her
design not to return to her guardians house by taking her
along with him from place to place. No doubt, the part played
by the accused could be regarded as facilitating the fulfillment
of the intention of the girl. That part, in our opinion, falls short
of an inducement to the minor to slip out of the keeping of her

lawful guardian and is, therefore, not tantamount to 'taking’.”

19. After going through the above discussion and cited case law, I
have found that in present case at hand, it is not proved beyond all

reasonable doubt that accused took the victim from her lawful guardian. I
have also mentioned that no sexual intercourse took place between the
accused and the victim prior to their marriage and according to victim, social
marriage took place. Case was lodged after the marriage when victim and
accused were living together as husband and wife. So, prosecution failed to
establish the charge either U/S 366 IPC or U/S 363 IPC. All points mentioned
above are remained as not proved beyond all reasonable doubt. Accused is
not found guilty.

RDER

20. Prosecution failed to prove the case U/S 366/376 IPC R/W
Section 4 of POCSO Act against accused Sri Kalyan Ray beyond all reasonable
doubt. Accused is acquitted on benefit of doubt and set at liberty. He is
directed to furnish bail bond of Rs. 10,000/- with one suitable surety of the
like amount for a period of six months as required U/S 437(A) Cr.P.C. Till then

he is allowed to remain on previous bail.

21. A copy of this Judgment and Order shall be given to the District

Magistrate for information.

22. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 29"" day
of March, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

Aad dye Moag\0
dh hea ees
oa,

Dictated and corrected by me,

Bae wie
(DJ: Mahagtay\*
Special Judge,

Chirang.

KKK KK
APPENDIX

 

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Smt. Duleswari Choudhury
PW 2 — Smt. Gunebala Choudhury
PW 3 — Victim

Exhibit (Prosecution):
Ext-1 FIR

Ext-2 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

Material Exhibit (Prosecution):
Nil.

0

efence Witness:
Nil.

 

Defence Exhibit:
Nil.

 

Qe
(D.J. Mahanta)

Special Judge,

Chirang, Kaijalgzor
