Page | of 5

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, DARRANG,MANGALDAI.

 

Spl(POCSO) case No.38 of 2019
(U/S : 341/376(3) of I.P.C.
Read with Section 6 of POCSO Act).

State
Versus
Md.Barek Ali @ Abdul Barek
S/O Md.Manoruddin
Village- Nadirkash
P.S- Dalgaon,Dist-Darrang,
(Assam)
--Accused.

PRESENT: Sri P.K. Bora,A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge.
Darrang,Mangaldai.
APPERANCE:
Learned advocate for the State: Mr. Premeswar Sarma.
AND
Learned advocate for the accused :Mr. Mirja Gias

Evidence recorded on : 08/06/19 and 08/07/19

Argument heard on : 29/07/2019

Judgment delivered on : 31/07/2019.
Page 2 of 5

JUDGMENT:

. The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 06/02/2019 the informant(real

name is withheld hereinafter referred to as Miss X) aged about 14 years lodged an
FIR before the I/C, Daipam Police Outpost under Dalgaon Police Station stating
that on 05/02/2019 at about 8 p.m. while she was attending a religious ceremony
an unknown person picked her by gagging her mouth and raped her in a place
back side of the house of one Sahid Ali. She was left there after the incident. She

also mentioned the name of the accused person as Barek Ali.

Having received the FIR, Police registered a case, investigated the matter and got
the statement of the victim recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. and finally, Police submitted
charge sheet against the accused U/S 341/376(3) I.P.C. read with Section 6 of
POCSO Act.

. On his production before this Court, the written charge U/S 341/376(3) I.P.C.

read with Section 6 of POCSO Act were explained and read over to the accused to

which he pleaded not guilty.

. Points for determination:

(i)Whether on 05/02/2019 at 8 p.m. the accused person wrongfully restrained the
victim Miss X?

(ii) Whether on the same date and time the accused committed rape on Miss X?
(iii) Whether the accused had committed an offence U/S 6 of the POCSO Act?

REASON AND DECISIONS THEREON:

. In the course of trial, the prosecution examined PW1 Sukur Ali, father of the

victim and the victim PW2 Miss X.

. In his evidence PW1 has stated that one day he was informed by his son Muktar

that his sister Miss X, while attending a religious ceremony she was picked by the
Page 3 of 5

accused and she was left at Lalpool. He brought Miss X from Lalpool and he has

not asked anything about the incident to Miss X.

PW2 victim Miss X has stated in her evidence that on the night of the incident
while she was attending a religious gathering to see one Khaled Pir Baba, she
noticed Barek there and one of the persons warned her that Barek was a
notorious person and when the people gathered in that ceremony started to run
near the Pir Baba at that time she was picked by someone to the back side of the
house of Sahid and she was raped there. She failed to recognize the person who
was committing rape on her. As guided by the village people, she put the name of
Barek in the FIR. She by contradicting her own version she also stated that while
deposing before the Court during investigation she told that it was Barek, who
committed rape on her and she identified him. She proved Ext.1 as the FIR and
Ext.2 as her statement recorded during investigation in the Court. She further
stated that the house of the accused Barek falls in the village where her "Pehi's"
(aunt's) house is situated. Again she also stated specifically that she cannot state

the name of the person, who committed rape on her.

. Therefore, it is seen that the victim, who is not a little girl deposed before the

Court self contradictory evidence. The age of the victim is not such that she may
be subjected to influence by the accused or any other person. The age of the
victim is 15 years and in such an age a girl exposes to different situation.
Therefore, she cannot be expected to become a victim of any force or coercion
from the side of the accused. The self contradictory version of the victim is not

inspiring.

In a catena of judgments the Hon'ble Apex Court held that ---10. A criminal trial is
not a fairy tale wherein one is free to give flight to one's imagination and fantasy.
Crime is an event in real life and is the product of an interplay between different
human emotions. In arriving at a conclusion about the guilt of the accused

charged with the commission of a crime, the Court has to judge the evidence by
10.

11.

Page 4 of 5

the yardstick of probabilities, its intrinsic worth and the animus of witnesses. Every
case, in the final analysis, would have to depend upon its own facts. The court
must bear in mind that "human nature is too willing, when faced with brutal
crimes, to spin stories out of strong suspicions". Though an offence may be
gruesome and revolt the human conscience, an accused can be convicted only on
legal evidence and not on surmises and conjecture. The law does not permit the
Court to punish the accused on the basis of a moral conviction or suspicion alone.
"The burden of proof in a criminal trial never shifts and it is always the burden of
the prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt on the basis of
acceptable evidence." In fact, it is a settled principle of criminal jurisprudence that
the more serious the offence, the stricter the degree of proof required, since a
higher degree of assurance is required to convict the accused. The fact that the
offence was committed in a very cruel and revolting manner may in itself be a
reason for scrutinizing the evidence more closely, lest the shocking nature of the
crime induces an instinctive reaction against dispassionate judicial scrutiny of the
facts and law. (Vide Kashmira Singh V. State of M.P., State of Punjab V. Jagir
Singh, Shankarlal Gyarasilal Dixit V. State of Maharashtra, Mousam Singha Roy V.
State of W.B. and Aloke Nath Dutta V. State of W.B.).

Therefore, the accused deserves benefit of doubt. Thus, the accused Barek Ali @
Abdul Barek is acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court this 31st day of July,2019.

(P.K. Bora)
Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
Dictated and corrected by me.

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
Page 5 of 5

APPENDIX
(A) Prosecution witnesses:

(i)PW1 Sukur Ali
(ii)PW2 Miss X

(B)Defense witness: Nil.

(C)Exhibits:

(i)Ext.1 FIR
(ii)Ext.2 statement of victim.

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
