IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
(G.R. Case No. 2338 of 2016)

Teok P.S. Case No. 343 of 2016

Committing Magistrate:-

Smt. Rani Boro,
Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat District

State of Assam

-Versus-

Sri Krishna Bharali,
Son of Late Sarupona Bharali,
Resident of Bonai Baraghar Bhakat Gaon,

P.S. Teok,

District-Jorhat. ... Accused
APPEARANCES:

For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P.,
Jorhat.

For the Accused: Sri Ashok Ranjan Bora & Sri Gautam Saikia,
Learned Defence Counsel, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTIONS 366 [A] OF INDIAN PENAL
CODE READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF
CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 10-11-2016
Date of prosecution evidence : 23-11-2016; 06-01-2017; 23-03-

2017;

16-06-2017; 07-11-2017; 06-
12-2017

& 02-01-2018
Statement of Accused

1

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
Recorded on : 26-02-2018
Date of Argument : 15-06-2018 & 23-07-2018
Date of Judgment : 26-07-2018

UDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Teok P.S. Case
No. 343/2016 under Section 366 [A] of IPC was registered on the
basis of a F.I.R. lodged by Smt. Archana Hazarika, mother of the victim
girl [hereinafter to be referred as [X].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 11/08/2016 [Exhibit-2],
the informant Smt. Archana Hazarika [PW-2] who is the mother of the
victim girl [X] alleged, inter-alia, that on 10/08/2016 at about 12.30
A.M. morning while her 13 [thirteen] year old daughter was sleeping
inside the house, she went missing from the house. The family
members of the informant searched for the victim but she was found
untraceable. It is further alleged by the informant that at about 8.00
PM. she came to know that accused had kidnapped her minor
daughter.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the then Officer-in-
charge, Teok P.S., the same was registered as Teok P.S. Case No.
343/2016 under Section 366 [A] of IPC.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was
recovered from the possession of accused. The victim was sent for her
medico-legal examination as well as to the court for recording her
statement under Section 164 of Cr.PC. Police, on completion of
investigation, filed charge-sheet in the case against the above named
accused Krishna Bharali u/S. 366 [A] of IPC vide Charge-sheet No.
196/2016 dated 31/08/2016.

2). The then learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, District-Jorhat
after furnishing copies of the relevant documents to the accused u/S.
207 of Cr.P.C., committed the case to this Court for trial.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the
documents submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of

2

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
the accused and the prosecution in this behalf, | found ground for
presuming that the accused has committed offences under Section 366
[A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012. Accordingly, charges were framed, read over and
explained to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 13 [thirteen] witnesses including
the victim, her parent, Medical Officer and the I.O. were examined on
behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge u/S. 366 [A] of IPC read
with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,
2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of
above named accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused
has taken the following pleas:

i. He did not take the victim to the house of Sri Dadu Bora, as

alleged by the victim during her evidence;
ii. He did not take the victim in red colour vehicle, as alleged by

prosecution witnesses during course of evidence;
iii. That he did not visit the houses of Pranjal Borah [PW-7] and

Anjan Borah [PW-8] as deposed by them;
iv. That at the time of incident he met with an accident and was

having treatment at his residence.
v. The accused pleaded innocence.

5). | have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public
Prosecutor for the State as well as Sri Ashok Ranjan Bora being
assisted by Sri Gautam Saikia, learned Defence Counsel for the
accused.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as
follows:-

1) Whether on or about 10/08/2016 at about 12.30 A.M. at
Bonai Bareghar under Teok P.S., the accused named-
above induced the victim girl to go with him or to do any
act, or acts with the intent that she may be or knowing
that it is likely that she will be forced [or seduced] to

3

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
illicit intercourse with another person and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 366 [A]

of IPC?
2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused named

above committed penetrative sexual assault upon the
victim girl and thereby committed an offence punishable
under Section 4 of The Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7). First of all, let us see what the relevant provisions of law
states to which accused has been charged in this case.

Section-366 [A] - Procuration of minor girl-Whoever, by any
means whatsoever, induces any minor girl under the age of
eighteen years to go from any place or to do any act with
intent that such girl may be, or knowing that it is likely that
she will be, forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with another
person shall be punishable with imprisonment which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT,
2012
Section-4 - Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall

 

be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which shall not be less than seven years but which may extend
to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

8). To decide the above points and sections of law, let us
examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses along
with the relevant documents.

[PW-1] is the victim of the instant case. This witness
during her testimony divulged that she knows accused from before as
he is cousin brother of her mother. It is further version of the victim
that on the date of incident she was sleeping alongwith her mother. At
about 10.00 P.M. night she was having conversation with her father

4

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
who used to stay at Gujarat for his working purpose. It is further stated
by the victim that she received message on her mobile from accused’s
side, in which, the accused asked her to come out of the house. The
accused also threatened her that if she does not come out of her house
then he [accused] will kill her parent. Out of fear, she came out of the
house towards the road. At that time accused came near her and then
gave her some medicine on her nose, for which, she became senseless.
Further version of the victim is that the accused then took her to the
house of one villager namely Sri Dadu Borah where the accused
committed rape upon her. On the next day when she regained sense,
the accused took her to his house in a Maruti car. Further version of the
victim is that the accused was a married person prior to the date of
incident. Her mother lodged ejahar before police. She gave statement
before the learned Magistrate on being produced by police vide Exhibit-
1 wherein Exhibit-1 [1] to Exhibit-1 [4] are her relevant signatures.

During cross-examination, she stated that after she came out
of the house she does not know anything as she became unconscious
after the accused put some medicine on her nose. She admitted that
she did not state before police that accused gave her message over
her mobile phone. She denied all the defence suggestions put to her
during cross-examination, more particularly, that due to previous
enmity with the accused her mother with her help had lodged false
case against the accused.

Hence, the evidence of the victim [X] that she was
kidnapped by the accused, taken to the house of one Dadu
Borah and thereafter indulged in sexual relationship with the
victim in the house of aforesaid Dadu Borah remained
unshaked.

9). Smt. Archana Hazarika [PW-2] who is the mother of
victim-cum-informant of the case, in her evidence, stated that on the
date of incident her daughter [PW-1] had telephonic conversation with
her father, who stays at Gujarat for his working purpose. She went to
the bathroom thrice as she was having menstrual period. At about

5

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
12.00 PM. night when she woke up from bed she did not find her
daughter. Thereafter, she searched for her but could not find her
whereabout. On the next day she lodged ejahar before police vide
Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2 [1] is her signature. It is her further version
that police recovered her daughter from the house of accused. Her
daughter was produced before a doctor for medico legal check-up and
thereafter before the learned Magistrate who recorded statement of
her daughter under Section 164 Cr.P.C. Further version of this witness is
to the effect that police seized the original birth certificate of her
daughter vide seizure-list [Exhibit-3] wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is her
relevant signature. She also exhibited the birth certificate of her
daughter as Exhibit-4 which was returned back to her by police.

During cross-examination, she stated that she came to know
that her daughter [PW-1] was recovered by police from the house of
accused.

10). PW-3 is Smt. Sumitra Bharali who is the sister-in-law of
informant Smt. Archana Hazarika [PW-2] divulged during her testimony
that she was reported by the informant [PW-2] regarding missing of her
daughter on the previous night. They searched for the victim but could
not find her whereabout. It is her further version that the accused took
victim back to his house in a red colour vehicle.

This witness during cross-examination denied that she did
not state before police that accused took the victim in a red coloured
vehicle. Further, it is stated by this witness that accused as well as

victim are maternal uncle and niece respectively.

11). The evidence of Sri Rajen Bharali [PW-4] who is the uncle
of victim is to the effect that on the next day of incident the mother of
victim came to his house and informed him that her daughter was
missing from the house. All of them searched for the victim but she
was found untraceable. This witness further stated that they came to
know that the accused had taken the victim to his house.

6

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
During cross-examination, he stated that he did not witness
the incident.

12). Smt. Kabita Bharali [PW-5] who is neighbour of victim
deposed that on the next day of incident the victim telephoned her
that the accused had taken her to his house.

This witness during cross-examination admitted that she did
not state before police that victim was recovered from the possession
of accused.

But the evidence tendered by this witness that victim
telephoned her that accused had taken her to his house remained
unshaked during cross-examination by defence side as defence did not
put any question on this aspect.

13). Sri Rajani Sarmah [PW-6] who is another neighbour of
victim deposed that he was present when police seized the birth
certificate of the victim from her mother Smt. Archana Hazarika [PW-2]
vide Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-3 [2] is his signature.

During cross-examination, he stated that he signed in the
seizure-list as per direction of police and police did not showed him
anything what they have seized vide Exhibit-3.

14). Sri Pranjal Borah [PW-7] & Sri Anjan Borah [PW-8]
who are the brothers of Dadu Bora stated that on the date of incident
the accused came to their house alongwith one girl and stayed for
about 10/15 minutes. Thereafter, both of them sent them [accused as
well as victim] back. It is further stated by this witness that the house
of the victim is just adjacent to the house of accused.

The evidence of Sri Pranjal Borah [PW-7] further reveals
that accused told them that he had brought one girl with him and then
they sent them back.

Defence side declined to cross-examine both these two
witnesses. Hence, their evidence to the effect that accused told them

 

7

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
that he had brought one girl with him remained unshaked during cross-
examination.

15). Evidence of Smt. Swarnali Dutta Bharali [PW-9] who is
wife of accused Sri Krishna Bharali and Smt. Subarna Bharali [PW-
10] who is mother of accused are of no help to the prosecution as they
do not know anything regarding the incident.

Defence side declined to cross-examine these two

witnesses.

16). Sri Debojit Bharali [PW-11] who is the brother of
accused Krishna Bharali stated during his evidence that at the time of
incident police came and brought both the victim as well as accused.
Later on, he came to know that police had taken the accused to the
police station as he [accused] had brought the victim with him.

During cross-examination, he stated that he did not ask his
brother as well as victim about the incident. Hence, his evidence to the

effect that police brought both the victim as well as accused and later
on he came to know that accused had brought the victim remained
unshaked during cross-examination as no question was put to this
witness on these material particulars by the defence side.

 

17). The evidence of Dr. Amrita Nath [PW-12] is to the effect
that on 12/08/2016 she examined the victim on police requisition. It is
stated by the doctor that at the time of examination of the victim she
found the following:

Marks of identification

(1)Mole over right forehead, 5 cm middle and 2 cm above eyebrow.
(2)Scar mark just above left side of upper lip.

Physical Examination

Height: 155 cm Weight:- 39 kg

Chest girth:- 73 cm Abdominal girth:- 61 cm
Hairs:- Auxiliary, Scalp & Pubic- 29 cm, black in colour.

Breast & Nipple:- Well developed.
Teeth:- 28 numbers.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
MENSTRUAL HISTORY

Age at menarche - One year back from the date of examination.
Cycle - Regular Date of LMP -

GENITAL EXAMINATION

Genital organs:- Healthy.

Perineum:- Healthy.

Vulva:- Healthy.

Hymen:- Ruptured.

Vagina:- No evidence of any injury.

Cervix:- Not palpable.

Uterus:- Not palpable.

Evidence of veneral disease:- Not detected.

INJURIES ON BODY:- Not detected at the time of examination.
Mental condition at the time of examination:- Stable.
Radiological report:-

1]. Epiphysis of proximal end of humerus has not fused.

2]. Epiphysis of distal end of humerus has fused.

3]. Epiphysis of distal end of radius and ulna have not fused.
4]. Epiphysis of bilateral iliac crest have not fused.

5]. Epiphysis of bilateral ischial tuberosity have not fused.
6]. USG-W/A - Normal.

As per opinion of doctor, the age of victim is above 14 years
and below 16 years; evidence of recent sexual intercourse is not
detected on her person; evidence of injury or violence not detected on
her person and she was not pregnant as per clinical/radiological report.
She exhibited her report as Exhibit-5 and her signatures thereon as
Exhibit-5 [1] to Exhibit-5 [3].

Defence side declined to cross-examine this witness.

18). The evidence of Sri Atul Sarmah [PW-7] who is the 1.0. of
the case is to the effect that on 11/08/2016 he was working as
Attached Officer at Teok P.S. On that day the then Officer-in-charge,
Teok P.S. received ejahar from the informant which was registered as

9

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
10

Teok PS. Case No. 343/2016 under Section 366-A IPC. Thereafter, he
was entrusted with the charge of investigation.

During investigation, he examined the informant at the
police station itself, visited the place of occurrence, examined
witnesses who were acquainted with the fact & circumstance of the
case. He drew Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index vide
Exhibit-6 wherein Exhibit-6 [1] is his signature. The I.O. further stated
that he recovered the victim from the house of accused located at
Bareghar Bhokot Gaon. Accordingly, he took both of them to the O.P.
and recorded statement of the victim. Victim was sent before a doctor
for medico legal check-up. Thereafter, she was produced before the
learned Magistrate who recorded statement of the victim under Section
164 Cr.PC. Accused was arrested in connection with the case on
11/08/2018. It is further version of the 1.0. that on completion of
investigation, he submitted charge-sheet against the accused vide C.S.
No. 196/2016. He exhibited the charge-sheet as Exhibit-7 wherein
Exhibit-7 [1] is his signature.

During cross-examination by defence, he categorically
stated that witness Smt. Sushmita Bharali [PW-3] stated before him
under Section 161 Cr.P.C. regarding the time of incident but she did not
state that victim was taken in red colour vehicle. He denied defence
suggestion that he did not record statement of witnesses residing near

the house of victim as well as accused.

19). Sri Ashok Ranjan Bora, learned counsel for accused has
strenuously submitted that the victim at the time of incident was above
18 years and considering the fact and circumstance of the case, the
victim was a consenting party. Furthermore, the prosecution has failed
to prove the charges, brought against the accused, beyond ll
reasonable doubt and as such, the accused is liable to be acquitted in
the instant case.

20). Controverting the said argument, advanced by the
learned counsel for the accused, Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special

10

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
11

Judge, Jorhat, has submitted that the evidence, given by the victim
herself, her mother [PW-2], near relatives [PW-3, PW-4 & PW-5] and
independent witnesses [PW-7] & PW-8] clearly indicates that the victim,
at the time of occurrence was only fourteen years and as such, the
accused is liable to be convicted under Section 366-A IPC as well as
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

21). Having heard the learned counsel, appearing for both the
parties, | have carefully perused the evidence on record, more
particularly, the statement of the victim [PW-1], who is the star witness
of the instant case, that on the date of incident she was sleeping
alongwith her mother. At about 10.00 P.M. night she was having
conversation with her father who used to stay at Gujarat for his
working purpose. It is further stated by the victim that she received
message on her mobile from accused’s side, in which, the accused
asked her to come out of the house. The accused also threatened her
that if she does not come out of her house then he [accused] will kill
her parent. Out of fear, she came out of the house towards the road. At
that time accused came near her and then gave her some medicine on
her nose, for which, she became senseless. Further version of the
victim is that the accused then took her to the house of Sri Dadu Borah
where the accused committed rape upon her. On the next day when
she regained sense, the accused took her to his house in a Maruti car.
Further version of the victim is that the accused was a married person
prior to the date of incident. Her mother lodged ejahar before police.
She gave statement before the learned Magistrate on being produced
by police vide Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-1 [1] to Exhibit-1 [4] are her
relevant signatures.

During cross-examination, she stated that after she came out
of the house she does not know anything as she became unconscious
after the accused put some medicine on her nose. She admitted that
she did not state before police that accused gave her message over
her mobile phone. She denied all the defence suggestions put to her

during cross-examination, more particularly, that due to previous

11

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
12

enmity with the accused her mother with her help had lodged false
case against the accused.

22). On perusal of the evidence of record it is seen that
mother of the victim [PW-2] has corroborated the version of her
daughter, i.e., the victim [PW-1] in all material particulars which has
been supported by the evidence of Smt. Sumitra Bharali [PW-3] and Sri
Rajen Bharali [PW-4] who are respectively aunt and uncle of victim.

23). Further version of victim is well corroborated by Smt.
Kabita Bharali [PW-5] who is relative of victim. This witness during her
testimony divulged that on the next day of incident the victim
telephoned her that the accused had taken her to his house.

This witness during cross-examination admitted that she did
not state before police that victim was recovered from the possession
of accused.

But the evidence tendered by this witness that victim
telephoned her that accused had taken her to his house remained
unshaked during cross-examination by defence side as defence did not
put any question on this aspect.

24). Evidence of independent witnesses namely Sri Pranjal
Borah [PW-7] & Sri Anjan Borah [PW-8] who are the brothers of Dadu
Bora stated that on the date of incident the accused came to their
house alongwith one girl and stayed for about 10/15 minutes.
Thereafter, both of them sent them [accused as well as victim] back. It
is further stated by this witness that the house of the victim is just
adjacent to the house of accused.

The evidence of Sri Pranjal Borah [PW-7] further reveals
that accused told them that he had brought one girl with him and then
they sent them back.

Defence side declined to cross-examine both these two
witnesses. Hence, their evidence to the effect that accused told them

 

12

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
13

that he had brought one girl with him remained unshaked during cross-
examination.

25). Sri Debojit Bharali [PW-11] who is the own brother of
accused Krishna Bharali deposed that at the time of incident police
came and brought both the victim as well as accused. Later on, he
came to know that police had taken the accused to the police station
as he [accused] had brought the victim with him.

During cross-examination, he stated that he did not ask his

brother as well as victim about the incident. Hence, his evidence to the

effect that police recovered and brought both the victim as well as
accused and later on he came to know that accused had brought the
victim remained unshaked during cross-examination as no question
was put to this witness on these material particulars.

26). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C.
remained completely silent as to the version of the victim [PW-1]. He
disclosed that he had been falsely implicated in the instant case by the
victim as well as informant. Further, the accused had taken the pleas
which are as follows:

i. He did not take the victim to the house of Sri Dadu Bora, as

alleged by the victim during her evidence;
ii. He did not take the victim in red colour vehicle, as alleged by

prosecution witnesses during course of evidence;
iii. That he did not visit the houses of Pranjal Borah [PW-7] and

Anjan Borah [PW-8] as deposed by them;
iv. That at the time of incident he met with an accident and was

having treatment at his residence.

The pleas taken by the accused is not going to affect the
prosecution case as defence side has not disputed the fact that
accused took the victim to the house of Dadu Borah which remained
unshaked through the evidence of Sri Pranjal Borah [PW-7] & Sri Anjan
Borah [PW-8] who are the brother of aforesaid Dadu Borah. It is further
stated by the victim during cross-examination that accused committed
bad work with her in the house of Dadu Bora.

13

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
14

27). The accused in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C.
has taken plea that at the time of incident he met with an accident and
was having treatment at his residence. But from a close perusal of case
diary which is available with the case record it is seen that when
accused was arrested by police in connection with the case on
11/08/2016 at 10.00 PM., the accused was examined by Dr. Uma
Subba, Medical & Health Officer No-1, Teok First Referral Unit, Jorhat,
who had opined that “no abnormality detected”. The doctor or nurse
who gave treatment to the accused at the time of incident have not
been examined by the accused to substantiate his above plea. Hence,
in view of the above, the plea taken by the accused does not hold any
water to strengthen his case.

28). In the present case, birth certificate of the victim was
seized by the 1.0. [PW-13] as is revealed from the evidence tendered by
the 1.0. The prosecution has also relied upon Exhibit-5, the report of
doctor Amrita Nath [PW-12], according to which, the age of the victim
was above fourteen years but below sixteen years at the relevant time.
Moreover, the victim in her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. also
stated her age to be 13 [thirteen] years, which she made before
learned Magistrate on 18/08/2016, after her recovery from the
company of accused. Keeping the consistency of the victim while
deposing before this court as PW-1 on 23/11/2016 also stated her age
as 13 [thirteen] years. So, there is consistency in the evidence of
witnesses including victim that she was aged 13/14 [thirteen/fourteen]
years at the time of incident and she was a child. There is nothing on
record to create a doubt about the bone/medical age of the victim child
as determined by the Medical Officer as she was not cross-examined by
the defence on this aspect. Moreover, the date of birth of victim as
revealed from the Exhibit-4 is 12/12/2003, i.e., she was about 14
[fourteen] years at the time of incident could not be shaked by defence
through the evidence of doctor as well as other independent witnesses
of the instant case.

14

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
15

Hence, the victim is found to be below 18 [eighteen] years
of age at the time of incident.

29). It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole
evidence of a child witness is permissible, if such witness is found
competent to testify and the court, after careful scrutiny of its
evidence.

In the case of Datttu Ramrao Sakhare-versus-State of
Maharashtra, reported in [1997] 5 SCC 341, the Hon'ble Apex Court
has held that - “A child witness if found competent to depose to
the facts and reliable one, such evidence could be the basis of
conviction. In other words, even in the absence of oath, the
evidence of a child witness can be considered under Section
118 of Indian Evidence Act, provided that such witness is able
to understand the questions and able to give rational answers
thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof
would depend upon the circumstance of each case. The only
precaution which the court should bear in mind while assessing
the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be
reliable one and his/her demeanor must be like any other
competent witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored”.

30). In another case, i.e., Pancchi -versus- State of Uttar
Pradesh, AIR 1998 SC 2726, the Hon’ble Apex Court has held that -
“It is not the law that if a witness is a child, his/her evidence
shall be rejected, even if it is found reliable, The law is that
evidence of a child witness must be evaluated more carefully
and with greater circumspection because a child is susceptible
to be swayed by what others tell them and this child witness is
easy prey to tutoring”.

31). The ratio as laid down in the above case is that the
testimony of a child witness is attributed the same kind of credibility

15

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
16

that it attached to the statement of any other witness if the testimony
is consistent.

In the present case, the victim has been consistent on the
material particulars with regard to the incident which is supported by
her mother [PW-2], her aunt and uncle [PW-3 & PW-4] together with
independent witnesses [PW-5], PW-7, PW-8 and more specifically the
own brother of accused [PW-11].

32). In the case of Parshotam Lal-versus-State of Punjab,
(2010) 1 SCC 65, it has been held by Hon’ble Apex Court in its
judgment as follows

“That if the girl kidnapped is below 18 years,
consent is immaterial for the offence to be made out. It is just
more than a technical offence”.

33). On appreciation of the evidence on record as well as other
facts and circumstances of the case, it is found that there is allegation
of kidnapping of the victim girl by the accused. The mother of the
victim-cum-informant of the case [PW-2] divulged that on the date of
incident her daughter was sleeping in the house and thereafter she
went on missing from the house. Similarly, the victim girl has narrated
the facts in detail. Victim in her evidence-in-chief clearly stated that
accused gave message over her mobile phone and threatened her with
dire consequence that if she does not come out of her house then her
parent will be killed by the accused, which clearly amounts to
enticement of a minor under 18 [eighteen] years of age.

34). From the facts and evidence of witnesses it appears that
prosecution side has been able to prove the case against the accused
under Section 363 of IPC instead of case under Section 366-A of IPC.

35). The essential ingredients of the offence under Section 361 are

as follows:

16

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
17

1) The accused took or enticed away a minor or a person of

unsound mind;
2) Such minor, if male, must be under 10 years of age and, if

female, under 18 years of age;
3) The act must be one of taking or enticing out of the

keeping of the lawful guardian of such minor or person of

unsound mind;
4) The act of taking or enticing away must be done without

consent of the lawful guardian.

36). In the case of State-versus-Rajaram, AIR 1973 SC
819, it has been held by Hon’ble Apex Court that “the object of
Section 361 IPC is to protect the minor children from being
seduced for illicit intercourse and also to protect the rights and
privileges of guardians having lawful custody of their wards”.

In another case, i.e., Parkash-versus-State, AIR 2004
SC 227, it has been held by Hon’ble Supreme Court that “the
gravamen of the offence under Section 361 lies in the taking or
enticing of a minor under the ages specified in the section, out
of the keeping of the lawful guardian without the consent of
such guardian”.

The Hon’ble Apex Court in the case of State of Haryana-
versus-Rajaram, AIR 1973 SC 819, has held that “kidnapping
within the meaning of this section is affected not only by
taking or enticing away a person but also by alluring such
person to go away from the protection of the guardian”.

37). In view of the above discussion, | am of the considered
view that prosecution has considerably been able to prove the case of
kidnapping against accused Sri Krishna Bharali which is punishable
under Section 363 of IPC. Hence the accused is convicted there
under.

It may be mentioned herein that accused was charged
under Section 366-A of IPC which is a graver charge than under
Sections 361/363 of IPC. Hence, in my considered opinion, the

17

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
18

conviction of accused under Section 363 IPC is not going to prejudice
the accused in any way, in defending himself, in this case.

However, on scrutinizing the evidence on record it is seen
that no case has been made out against accused Sri Krishna Bharali
under Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,
2012, as victim only stated that accused once indulge in sexual
intercourse with her. Moreover, Medical Officer [PW-12] also did not
find any evidence of recent sexual intercourse on the person of victim
or evidence of injury or violence mark on her person as per medical
examination report [Exhibit-5]. Victim did not specifically narrate as to
the manner in which rape was committed on her person and there is no
evidence at all whether the rape, she means, was in-fact, a penetrating
sexual intercourse or not. Prosecution has not been able to make out a
case against the accused Sri Krishna Bharali under the aforesaid
section of law beyond reasonable doubt, for which, | am of the opinion
that the accused is entitled to acquittal under benefit of doubt which |
accordingly do more so when victim has stated nothing in her
statement before police under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that accused had any
physical relation with her after kidnapping her.

38). Accused Sri Krishna Bharali is heard on the point of
sentence. The accused has submitted that he resides with his mother,
his wife and minor son and there is none to look after them in his
absence. He further submitted that if he is sent to jail hajot, then his
family will be destroyed. Hence, the accused prayed for leniency. There

is no other criminal case pending against me.

39). | have heard Sri Ashok Ranjan Bora, learned Defence
Counsel for the accused as well as Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special
Public Prosecutor, Jorhat. It is true that victim knew that accused is a
married person prior to the incident and accused took the victim with
him by enticing her.

Hence, considering all aspects, accused Sri Krishna
Bharali is sentenced to undergo RIGOROUS IMPRISONMENT for 04

18

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
19

[four] years and also to pay a fine of Rs. 20,000/- [Rupees Twenty
Thousand], in-default of payment of fine, to suffer RIGOROUS
IMPRISONMENT for 06 [six] months under Section 363 of IPC.

The period of detention already undergone by the
accused during investigation and trial shall be set off from the period of
imprisonment imposed on him under Section 428 Cr.P.C.

The accused is acquitted from the charge under Section

4 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, as said,
hereinbefore, under benefit of doubt.

Accused Sri Krishna Bharali is on bail. His bail bond

stands cancelled. The accused is committed to prison to serve out the

sentence imposed upon him.

40). Free copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused
immediately.

41). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 26th day
of July 2018.

Special Judge, Jorhat.

19

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
20

Continued to Page No:-19

 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURES:-

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

PW-1 Victim.

PW-2 Smt. Archana Hazarika, mother of victim-
cum-informant of the case.

PW-3 Smt. Sumitra Bharali, aunt of victim.

PW-4 Sri Rajen Bharali, uncle of victim.

PW-5 Smt. Kabita Bharali, another aunt of
victim.

PW-6 Sri Rajani Sarmah, dependent.

PW-7 Sri Pranjal Borah, pandal worker.

PW-8 Sri Anjan Borah, mason.

PW-9 Smt. Swarnali Dutta Bharali, wife of
accused.

PW-10 Smt. Subarna Bharali, mother of accused.

PW-11 Sri Debojit Bharali, brother of accused.

PW-12 Dr. Amrita Nath who examined the victim.

PW-13 Sri Atul Sarmah, I.O. of the case.

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

Exhibit-1 Statement of victim recorded by the
Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Seizure-list

Exhibit-4 Photocopy of birth certificate of victim.

Exhibit-5 Medico legal report of victim

Exhibit-6 Sketch Map of the site of occurrence with
index

Exhibit-7 Charge-sheet

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NIL

20

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016

 

 
21

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,
(Stenographer Grade-1)

21

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2016
