Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/S_:

313 of CrP.
Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel of the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

60 OF 2017
(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, r/w
Section 363 of IPC, arising out of
GR_ Case No 3949 of 2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

State of Assam

-Vs-

1.Md Jahiruddin Ali

S/o Md Mustafa Ali,

Vill- Kampur, Kachua(Nagaon)
P.S. — Kachua,

Dist- Nagaon, ‘Assam
03-01-2018.

15-02-2018.

15-02-2018.

15-02-2018.
15-02-2018.

Mr Munindra Ch Baruah,
Special Public Proecutor,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Mr AK Saikia, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md Jahiruddin Ali is put for trial for the allegation
of charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, r/w Section 363 of IPC.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that on 17-10-2017,

accused persons kidnapped informant’s 16 years minor daughter. On being vigorous
Page |2

searched, the informant came to know that it is the accused who kidnapped
informant’s minor daughter and kept her at Panigaon, Nagaon. Accordingly, they

were recovered at Panigaon, Nagaon. Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the informant Sri Puna Kanta Nath before the
OC, Sootea Police Station on 18-10-2017.

4. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C, Sootea Police Station registered the
case vide Sootea Police Station Case No 144/17 under Section 365 of the IPG, r/w
Section 4 of POCSO Act. After completion of investigation, O/C, Sootea Police»Station
sent up the case against the accused person under Section 4 of«POCSO Act, r/w
Section 363 of IPC.

5. On being appeared the accused before this‘Court, after hearing both
the parties, charge framed under Section 4 of POCSOAct, r/w Section 363 of the
IPC. Particulars of the charge was read over, explained to the accused to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

6. To substantiate the case,.prosecution examined as many as five PWs
including the informant and vicatim. After examination of the witnesses, learned
Counsel for the accused submitted to close the prosecution evidence on the ground
that neither the complainant_nor the victim reveals any material as to alleged offence
against the accused and therefore, it would be futile to examine the other witnesses.

Learned Special PP also conceded.

7. On perusal of the statement of witnesses including the complainant
and. victim, I think that prosecution case would not develop, even if examine the
other-prosecution witnesses, as they were no way supported the prosecution case.
Even if examine the other witnesses, prosecution case would not develop. Speedy
trial is the right of the accused person. Considering this all, prosecution evidence is

closed.

8. Accused is examined under Section 313 CrPC and the evidence
appears against the accused persons and the allegations made against the accused

person are put before me for his explanation where they denied the allegations and
Page |3

declined to give defence evidence.

9. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned Counsel for
both the sides.
10. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) “Whether the accused, two months prior to
17-10-2017 at Jaypur Majgaon, under Sootea PS,
kidnapped Miss "X” (16 years) from lawful
guardianship of her father complainant Puna Kanta
Nath and _ thereby committed an_ offence
punishable under Section 363 of the IPC?

(2) Whether the accused two months prior to
17-10-2017 (during that period) at
Nagaon,Panigaon, Dist- Nagaon, in. the rented
house, committed penetrative ‘sexual assault to
Smti "X” aged about 16 years \minor girl and
thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 4 of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

 

11. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidences on
record.
12. PW1- “Sri.Puna Kanta Nath deposed that he knows accused

Jaharuddin. The incident/took place about three months ago. Victim Jonali Devi is his
daughter. At«the time of incident, she was just less than 14 years. Accused
telephoned ‘to his daughter, thereafter, his girl(victim) was missing from their house.
They/vigorously searched our daughter, but, did not found her. Then, he informed
the.matter to the police station. One day, his daughter rang to him and informed him
that she was confined by the accused at Panigaon, Nagaon. Then he immediately
went to Panigaon, Nagaon and recovered his daughter from the possession of the
accused as accused confined his daughter. Along with his daughter, he also took the
accused and handed over them to the police station. Thereafter, he filed the ejahar
against the accused. Police sent his daughter for medical examination and also
forwarded her before the learned Magistrate for recording her statement under
Section 164 of CrPC. Thereafter, he has taken the custody of his daughter. Ext. 1 is

the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. The ejahar was written by one scribe
Page |4

according to his direction. After writing the ejahar, the scribe has read over the
contents of the ejahar and on satisfaction, he put his signature thereon. He has also
submitted one School Certificate of his daughter at the police Station.

In cross-examination, he stated that accused and victim introduced each
other after a talk in mobile. Victim also ring to accused and accused also ring to her
before her missing. He cannot exactly recall the date of birth of my victim daughter.
He has informed before the I/C Itakhola Police Out Post after three days of her
missing. After recovery of his daughter and accused he has filed the written ejahar.
Accused and my daughter lived together for about 45 days at Kalimandir area of
Panigaon, Nagaon. He has heard from his neighbor such as Bipul Nath that=during
his absence and also in the absence of his wife accused along with his daughter used
to visit our house in one time. Before recovery of his daughter, he has gifted one
Ceiling Fan and some wearing clothes including mekhela-sadar. made of patsilk and
cotton. He came to know that the accused belongs to Muslim community only on
when he meet accused and his daughter at Panigaon»Nagaon. On being come to
know by our villagers that his daughter eloped\with a person belongs Muslim
Community, then the villagers ostracized me..On being disseminate the name and
photo of the accused with his victim daughter at facebook, villagers came to know
about the incident, and then villagers ‘ostracized him. The incident took place not

only for fault of the accused, it was happened for the fault of his daughter also.

13. PW2- Smti Bharati Devi, the mother of the victim stated that prior to
the incident, she does )not know accused, but, she knows accused when her
daughter was.recovered from his possession. The incident took place about 3/4
months ago. ‘At the time of incident, she was just less than 15/16 years old. Her
victim-daughter used mobile phone. She quite often ring to some person. The
accused took hid daughter when we were in Arunachal. But, she cannot say from
where her daughter was taken by the accused. We searched the her victim daughter,
but, did not find her. They informed the matter to the police station. Her daughter
rang to her elder sister stating that she is at Panigaon, Nagaon along with the
accused. Then, they went to a rented house at Panigaon, Nagaon where we
recovered her daughter from the possession of accused. Then, they took her victim
daughter and accused and handed over them to the police station. Thereafter, her
husband lodged the ejahar. her girl was also examined medically and her statement

was also recorded through the learned Magistrate. Thereafter, she was given custody
Page |5

to them. She is still at their house.

In cross-examination she stated that she has not seen personally when
her daughter went out or with whom she went out. She does not know the exact
date of birth of her daughter.

14. PW3- Sri Lakhidhar Nath stated that at the time of incident, the
victim girl was 15/16 years old. Complainant and his wife recovered the girl from
Panigaon,Nagaon. The girl was missing from the house of complainant. Thereafter,
the complainant, his wife along with others searched the victim girl. At last they
recovered the girl and boy (accused) from Panigaon, Nagaon and handed ever them
to the police station.

In cross-examination he stated that he does not know about the incident.
He does not know to whom victim was eloped. As,the, villagers ostracized

complainant, therefore, the complainant filed this case against)the accused.

15. PW4 — Smti Bobita Devi deposed that the victim is her own younger
sister. Her name is Jonali Devi. At the relevant.time she was about 16 years of age.
Her sister was missing from her house. Therefore, they have been searched her
vigorously and informed the matter.to the police station. After about 45 days, Jonali
ring to her that she eloped witha boy who is belongs to Muslim Community and
therefore, asked me to report.this matter to her father so that she can be rescued.
Thereafter, her father,and.mother recovered victim along with the accused from a
house of Panigaon,\\Nagaon. Thereafter, they have been handed over to police
Station. Police sent the victim for medical examination and thereafter sent her before
the Court for recording her stated and then she was given custody to her father.

In her cross-examination, she stated that she does not know how her
victimysister was missing from her house. But,they heard from the villagers of
Choibari Centre that her sister was went with a boy in a public bus from Choibari
Centre. The age of her sister as stated above as 16 years stating on guess. As the
boy belongs to Muslim Community, so, her father filed this case. Had he been Hindu

fellow, her father did not have filed this case.

16. PW5 - the victim Miss “X” stated that he knows the accused. The
incident took place about four months ago. Accused is also known as Riku. She

introduced with the accused over mobile phone. Thereafter for last one month they
Page |6

have a regular talk with each other. One day, accused called her to Itakhola.
Accordingly, she went to Itakhola. Thereafter, accused took her forcibly in a bus to
Nagaon and kept her at his mother’s house at Kanpur, Kachua. When she noticed the
forehead of the mother of the accused without vermilion, she suspected about the
religion of the accused. Accused kept her there for 15 days. During that period she
was taken in a train, Tomtom(battery car). Thereafter, she was kept at a rented
house at Panigaon, Nagaon. One day with the mobile hand set of accused, she
informed the matter to her sister. Accordingly, on being came to know by her
parents, she was recovered along with the accused. She clearly stated that™during
that time, she has not been cohabited with the accused.

In cross-examination, she admitted that after introducing with the
accused over phone, they develop love affairs with each other. Therefore, she at her
own will called accused to take her to Chaibari. She has also gone)the accused at her
own will which she stated before the learned Magistrate while her statement was
recorded under Section 164 CrPC. She further stated that accused never forcefully
took her. Due to some mistake, the said incident took place. She further stated that
while their marriage was performed, she was 19 years old. During the period of 45
days, when she resides with the accused,.once, she took accused to her house to
introduce him to her mother. She even admitted that she made statement before the
police that inspite of Knowing that accused belongs to Muslim Community, she being
eloped with the accused. She further added that she has no any objection if the

accused is enlarged on acquittal.

15. These much is the prosecution evidence.

16. The accused is charged under Section 363 of the IPC, r/w Section 4 of
POGESO. Act. To prove the charge under Section 363 of IPC, prosecution must prove
that

"(i) the person in question was at the time of
the offence in India;

(ii) the accused conveyed that person beyond
the limits of India;

(iit) he did so without the consent of that
person, or of some person legally authorized to
consent on that person's behalf.”

17. From the statement of victim and other witnesses, it appears that
Page |7

none of the ingredients is fulfill by any witnesses. The victim by giving good bye to
the prosecution case stated that accused never forcefully took her. Due to some
mistake, the said incident took place and as such she does not have any objection, if,
he is enlarged on acquittal. Therefore, allegation of charge under Section 363 of IPC

is failed.

18. Next, come to prove charge under Section 4 of POCSO Act,

prosecution must prove —

Penetrative Sexual Assault. A person is said to commit “Penetrative*sexual
Assault’ if -

"a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina,
mouth urethra or anus of a child or makes the child.to do'so with him or
any other person;

b) h e inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the
body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the
child or makes the child to do so with him~or any other person; or

Cc) he manipulates any part-of the body of the child so as to
cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body or
the child or makes the child to do.so.with him or any other person; or

d) he applies his mouth_to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra
or the child to do so to such person or any other person’.

19. In this type of.cases, the evidence of victim is much more important.
Here in this case, PW5-the victim, Miss “X” no way supports the prosecution case.
She introduced with the.accused over mobile phone. Thereafter for last one month
they have a regular talk with each other. In cross-examination, she admitted that
after introducing\with the accused over phone, they develop love affairs with each
other. Therefore, she at her own will called accused to take her to Choibari. She has
also gone the accused at her own will which she stated before the learned Magistrate
while her statement was recorded under Section 164 CrPC. She further stated that
accused never forcefully took her. Due to some mistake, the said incident took place.
She further stated in her cross-examination that she has no any objection if the
accused is enlarged on acquittal. Therefore, the victim no way supports the
prosecution case. Similarly, the complainant and the mother of the victim have not
supported the prosecution case. PW1-the complainant stated that the accused and
victim introduced each other after a talk in mobile. Victim also ring to accused and

accused also ring to her before her missing. On being come to know by our villagers
Page |8

that his daughter eloped with a person belongs Muslim Community, then the villagers
ostracized me. He also admitted in his cross-examination that the incident took place
not only for fault of the accused, it was happened for the fault of his daughter also.
PW2- the mother of the victim also stated also stated nothing implicating the
accused in the alleged offence. Similarly, other two PWs i.e. PW3 & 4 have not
supported the prosecution case to be involved the accused in the alleged offence.
Therefore, none of the ingredient of the alleged charged is proved by prosecution.
Hence, charge under Section 4 of POCSO Act is failed.

20. On careful perusal of the whole case record, it appears’ that
prosecution has categorically failed to prove any of the alleged charges against the
accused. Hence, I do not have any hesitation to acquit the accused. Accordingly,
accused Md Jahiruddin Ali is acquitted and set them at liberty, forthwith.

21. The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

22. Send back the LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 15" day of
February, 2018.

(A. K. Borah)

Special Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Dictated and corrected by me.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |9

APPENDIX

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Sri Puna Kanta Nath, Complainant,
2.PW2 — Smti Bharati Devi,

3.PW3 — Sri Lakhidhar Nath,

4.PW4 — Smti Bobita Devi &

3.PW5 — Miss “X” (victim).

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

1. Ext. 1 : The ejahar.

(A. K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
