IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE AT BARPETA.

Present :- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com., LL.B.,AJS,
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 11 OF 2016
(G.R.No.- 1136/2014)

Barpeta P.S. Case No. 485 of 2014

State of Assam

-versus-

Lalchan Ali
S/O Late Nayeb Ali,
Resident of Puthimari, Keotkuchi,

P.S. Barpeta,

District - Barpeta, ASSam  ——___ enue Accused.

APPEARANCES :

For the State : Mr. Lalit Ch. Nath, learned
Public Prosecutor, Barpeta.

For the Accused : Mr. Rafiz Uddin Dewan, learned

Advocate, Barpeta.

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 376 IPC READ WITH
SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM
SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012.

 

Date of Charge : 06.06.2016

Date of Prosecution evidence : 17.08.2016;23.09.2016;
31.03.2018;17.05.2018;
06.08.2018;15.05.2019

Date of Statement of accused: 03.06.2019

Date of Argument : 12.06.2019

Date of Judgment : 18.06.2019

UDGM ENT

1). The prosecution case, in brief, is that Barpeta P.S. Case No
485 of 2014 under Section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of the

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 1 of 14
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was registered
on the basis of a F.I.R. lodged by Majibar Rahman, father of the victim
(hereinafter referred to as 'X’').

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 24.02.2014, the informant
Majibar Rahman (P.W.1), who is the father of the victim girl, alleged
interalia that on 23.02.2014 at about 4:30 PM, the accused person
namely Lalchan Ali committed penetrative sexual assault on his minor
victim daughter (X), aged about 8 years when she was playing, near
the house of the accused person. It was also alleged that accused lured
the victim to his house and did sexual activity with the victim. On
hearing hue and cry of victim, one Majar Ali and Habiya Khatun came
and rescued the victim, when she was being abused by the accused.
After that, victim girl told about the whole incident before her parents.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-In-charge,
Barpeta Police Station, the same was registered as Barpeta P.S. Case
No 485/2014 under Section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was
medically examined by the doctor, her statement under station 164 of
CrPC was recorded by the learned Magistrate. Police, on completion of
investigation, filed charge sheet, in the case, against the above named
accused Lalchan Ali under Section 376 IPC read with Section 4
of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012
vide charge sheet No.1282/14, dated 23.12.2014.

2). My learned Predecessor-in-office received the case record
alongwith the case diary of the case. Accused was summoned. On
appearance of accused, copy was furnished to him by my learned
Predecessor-in-office.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the
documents submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of
the learned counsel for the accused and the prosecution in this behalf,
charge was framed by my learned predecessor-in-office against the

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 2 of 14
accused under Section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which
was read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 10 [Ten] number of witnesses
including the informant, victim, Medical Officer and the I/O were
examined on behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge under
Section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of the
above named accused was recorded under Section 313 of CrPC. The
accused denied all the alleged incriminating materials against him. He
claimed himself to be innocent. He also disclosed that informant
borrowed money for his cancer treatment from the accused
and did not repay the same. For this reason, informant has
lodged false case against him.

5). | have heard Mr Lalit Ch. Nath, learned Public
Prosecutor of Barpeta, for the State as well as Mr. Rafiz Uddin
Dewan, learned Defence Counsel for the accused, who is facing trial
for commission of offence under Section 376 IPC read with Section
4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the point for determination before this court are as

follows ---

(i) Whether on 23.02.2014 at about 4.30 PM at village
Puthimari, within the jurisdiction of Barpeta Police Station,
District Barpeta, accused committed rape on Ranju Begum,
aged about 8 years, daughter of informant Majibar Rahman
whereby committing penetrative sexual assault and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 376 IPC read
with Section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 3 of 14
Offences Act, 2012 ?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF :

 

7). To decide the above point and sections of law, let us
examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses

alongwith the relevant documents.

Majibar Rahman [P.W.1] who is informant of this case,
deposed in his evidence that incident took place, at about 4.00 PM. The
age of his victim daughter was 8 years at the time of incident. On that
day, victim was playing near the house of the accused namely Lalchan
Ali. Then, the accused dragged the victim into his house. After that,
accused committed sexual assault with the victim girl. When the victim
raised hullah, then one Majar Ali came from Masjid and rescued, the
victim girl, where the accused was doing sexual activity.

PW1 disclosed that victim told the whole incident before
her parents. PW1 further stated that when Majar Ali took the victim to
her house, she became sick and so, they looked after for the night and
on the next day, morning filed the ejahar at Barpeta Police Station.
Police sent her for medical examination and got her statement
recorded by the learned Magistrate.

During cross-examination PW1 deposed that he was at
his home when incident took place. PW1 further deposed that there
were several houses between the house of the accused and informant
like Habi Ali, Makbar Ali and Abul Hussain. He admitted that he did not
see the incident. He got his child in ill health condition and he (PW1)
informed the incident someone of the village people. PW1 admitted
that Badsha, Yunus, Hajarat Ali knew the incident.

He further stated that resident of Hares Ali and Ejahak Ali
was situated in the south and west side of the house of the accused
respectively. He admitted that no one were present in the said houses.
PW1 stated that Lalchan have two sons as well as daughter-in-law and
nephew and niece. But, Lalchan wife passed away at the time of

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 4 of 14
incident. PW1 stated that Ranju was admitted in a Hospital before five
years.

He denied that he took Rs.7,000/- from the accused for
the treatment of his daughter. He also denied that the dispute took
place due to asking for repayment of the said amount. PW1 also
denied that accused did not commit sexual assault with the victim.

He denied that he lodged the case and gave false
evidence.

PW1 further stated that Majar and his daughter informed
about the whole incident.

8). The victim [P.W.2] deposed in her evidence that incident
took place one year before. On the relevant day, at about 4 PM, she
was playing near Masjid and at that time, Lalchan called her but she
refused to go. After that, Lalchan dragged her into his house and tied
her hands and legs and opened her panty and committed penetrative
sexual assault. PW2 also stated that when the accused inserted his
penis into the private part of her then she raised hullah but accused
did not want to release her. After hue and cry, Majar came and
released her and took her to her house. She narrated the whole
incident before her parents in her house.

PW2 stated that she was taken to thana on next day and
sent her for medical examination and the learned Magistrate recorded
her statement.

She exhibited her statement recorded under Section 164
CrPC as Ext.1 and Ext.1(1) and Ext.2(2) are her signatures. She also
admitted that she deposed the same story before the police.

During her cross-examination, she stated that she
cried when the accused assaulted her. On hearing hue and cry, Majar
Ali came but Major did not see the accused doing bad works with her.
She deposed that accused tied her hand and leg by two separate
Gamocha. She was playing alone near the Masjid and no one saw her,
when the accused dragged her into his house.

She deposed that she did not raise hulla when Lalchan

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 5 of 14
dragged her because she did not know that Lalchan will do bad works
with her. She further, stated that there were nobody in the house of
Lalchan.

She denied that daughter-in-law, niece and nephew in the
house of the accused were present. She denied that she stated before
the court on being tutored by her parent. Lalchand did bad works in his
bed.

She deposed that she did not know whether her father
borrowed the money, from the accused or not and she did not know
any dispute between the accused and her father.

She denied that Lalchan did not bad works with her;
accused rebuked the victim to get back his money and then she
started weeping and returned home.

9). Rajesh Kumar Todi [P.W.3] who is the then SDJM(S) of
Barpeta deposed that on 26.02.2014, he recorded the statement of the
victim namely Ranju Begum, aged 8 years. PW3 deposed that victim
was minor and he tested the intelligence of the victim and being
satisfied, he recorded the statement of the victim. PW3 also stated that
he read over the statement to the victim and the victim put her
signature thereon.

PW3 exhibited the statement as Ext.1 wherein Ext1.(3)
is his signature.

His cross-examination was declined by the defence side.

10). Unush Ali [PW4] stated that he knows the informant and
the victim. He deposed that about two years ago, police met him and
told him that Lalchan committed bad works. But he told that he did not
hear any such incident. Later on, he (PW4) heard that case was lodged
against the accused Lalchan on alleged commission of rape upon the
victim.

His cross-examination was declined by the defence side.

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 6 of 14
11). Mst. Habiya Khatun (PW5), stated that she knows the
accused and the victim. He stated that incident took place about 5/6
year ago. She heard from the victim that Lalchan did bad works with
her. He caught her hands.

In her cross-examination, she deposed that she did not
see the incident.

12). Majar Ali (PW6), stated that he knows the accused and
the victim. He stated that incident took place about 5/6 year ago. On
the relevant day, at about 4:30 PM, he went to the Masjid for offering
Namaj (prayer). At that time, he saw that victim was crying in the
house of accused Lalchan. After that, he asked the victim as to why
she was crying and then, accused Lalchan went out, from his house.
Then, he (PW6) took the victim to her house as she was crying.

PW6 further deposed that he asked the victim as to why
she was crying, then she told that Lalchan did bad works (rape) with
her. The victim told the incident before her father. PW6 deposed the
same story before th police.

In his cross-examination, he stated that Ranju was his
niece. He denied that he told before the police that Lalchan was
torturing the victim and assaulted her. He (PW6) did not see the victim
when the accused tied her hand and leg but Ranju told him that
accused tied her hand and leg. He further deposed that Ranju was a
little girl and saw her dress properly. The age of the victim was 8 years.

He denied that he told before the police that victim did not
tell him anything when he asked about the incident.

He denied that he did not state before the police that
victim told him that accused did bad works with the victim.

He denied other suggestion of defence side.

13). Dr. Anima Boro [P.W.7], who is the Medical Officer of
this case, deposed in her evidence before the court that on
25.02.2014, she was working as Lady Medical Officer at Fakharuddin
Ali Ahmed Medical College & Hospital, Barpeta. On that day in

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 7 of 14
connection with Barpeta P.S. case No.485/2014, under Section 376 IPC
R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act,2012, she examined victim Miss Ranju
Begum, aged about 08 years, daughter of Mojibar Rahman, of village
Puthimari, under Barpeta PS., District Barpeta on being identified by
WHG Namita Das and found as follows:

History:- History of alleged assault sexually on 23.02.2014 at 4:30 PM
by Lalchan Ali, 55 years.

Physical Examination:-

Identification marks:- One black mole on right Chest.

Height :- 122 Cm. Weight:- 21Kg.

Chest girth at nipple level:- 58 Cm.

Abdominal girth at navel level :- 53 Cm.

General built & appearance :- Average

Voice :- Child.

Teeth: 28.

Hairs: Axillary :- Absent.

Breasts :- Not developed.

Puberty(as told by the individual):- Not attained.

Menstruation(as told by the individual):- No.

Mental condition:- Stable

Gait:- Normal

Intelligence:-Average.

Wearing garments and any suspected stains present:- No stain
detected.

Bodily injuries:- No injury detected.

Genital Examination:-

Pubic hairs:- Absent.

Vulva(Labia majora & minora):- Normal

Hymen:- Tear

Vagina:- Narrow.

Fourchette and Perineum:-Normal

Vaginal swab collected:-

Result of vaginal swab smear examination:- No Spermatozoa is seen on

microscopic examination of vaginal swab slide.

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 8 of 14
Opinion:-

1]. There is no recent sign of sexual intercourse.
2]. SI. No. (2 to 5), there is no sign.
3]. There is no injury mark.
4]. Victim is mentally and physically stable.
5]. There is no foreign particle in her body/cloths.

P.W.7 exhibited the medical report vide Ext.2 wherein
Ext.2(1) is her signature and Ext.2(2) is the signature of Dr. S.K.
Bhuyan, Professor & HOD, Forensic Medicine, FAAMCH,
Barpeta.

Her cross-examination was declined by the defence side.

14). Dago Ali [P.W.8], stated that she knows the accused as
well as the victim and the informant. He deposed that he does not
know anything about incident.

His cross-examination was declined by the defence side.

15). Hajarat Ali [P.W.9], stated that he knows the accused as
well as the victim and the informant. He deposed that he does not
know anything about incident as he has been lying on bed since last
4/5 years due to his illness.

His cross-examination was declined by the defence side.

16). Manalisha Madhab Bhakta [P.W.10], who was working
at Barpeta PS as attach officer on 24.02.2014 deposed that on the
relevant day, one Majibar Rahman lodged the FIR before O/C Barpeta
PS, which was registered as Barpeta PS Case No.485/2014, under
Section 376 IPC R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

She deposed that she investigated the case and drew the
sketch Map. Ext.3 is the Sketch Map and Ext.3(1) is her signature. She
also examined the relevant witnesses including the victim.

She sent the victim for medical examination and got her
statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC before the learned
Magistrate. She deposed that she arrested the accused person on

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 9 of 14
26.02.2014 and forwarded him to Hon'ble Court.

On completion of investigation, she submitted charge
sheet against the accused person under Section 4 of POCSO Act.

PW 10 exhibited the charge sheet vide Ext.4 and
Ext.4(1) is her signature.

In her cross-examination, P.W.10 deposed that she did
not examine Akbar Ali, Ishak Ali and Harej Ali who have been shown in
the sketch map. She have not seized any birth certificate or school
certificate of victim to prove her age.

She denied that witness Major Ali told her that Ranju
stated before him that accused did bad work with the victim.

She denied that accused was not involved in the case; she
have not done investigation the case properly.

17). From a close perusal of the evidence, it is seen from the
statement of the victim (PW2), who is star witness of this instant case
that accused Lalchan Ali took her inside the house when she was
playing near the house of the accused and committed penetrative
sexual assault upon her. She categorically stated that accused entered
his penis into her private part for which she raised hulla. PW2 also
deposed that Majar Ali (P.W.6) came to the place of incident on hearing
her hue and cry.

The evidence of Majar Ali (PW6) is important because he
was the first person who heard hue and cry of the victim girl and came
to the spot. However, he did not see the accused tied hand and leg of
the victim but victim allegedly told him that accused tied her hand and
leg. He (PW6) further deposed in his cross-examination that victim was
a little girl and her dress was found proper.

But the informant (P.W.1), in his FIR, (not exhibited by the
prosecution) stated that witness Majar Ali (PW6) and one Habiya
Khatun had seen the accused doing sexual-intercourse with the victim.
It was alleged in the FIR that though, the witness Majar Ali and Habiya
Khatun saw the accused having sexual-intercourse with the victim but
the accused again proceeded to do sexual-intercourse with the victim

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 10 of 14
while her hand and leg were tied. It was written in the FIR that
PW6 untied the hand and leg of the victim. But the witness,
(PW6) did not support the FIR and simple deposed that he
found, victim was crying, in the house of the accused Lalchan.
It may be mentioned that victim is niece of the prime witness
Majar Ali (PW6). Moreover, thought PW6 deposed that victim
stated before him that accused had done bad works with her
but 1.0. of the case (Manalisha Madhab Bhakta) contradiction
him by deposed that he did not tell her so.

Thus, version of the victim, that she was raped by the
accused in his house became doubtful more so, when the prosecution
witness Habiya Khatun did not support the case and FIR of this case.

The prosecution side has also not examined the mother of
the victim, whom she, informed the incident immediately after
occurrence of the incident. The non-examination of mother of the
victim, creates the whole incident more doubtful.

The doubt is further strengthened of the fact that
Medical Officer of this case, Dr. Anima Boro (PW7) did not find
any sign of sexual-intercourse or injury mark on the body of
the victim (PW2).

PW3 is formal witness. PW4 has not supported the
prosecution case, defence side declined his cross-examination.

Witness Habiya Khatun (PW5) did not support the content
of the FIR of this case and simply stated that she heard that accused
caught the hand of the victim.

Witness Dago Ali (PW8) and Hajart Ali (PW9) did not
support the prosecution case and the defence did not cross-examine
them.

18). It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole
evidence of a child witness is permissible, if such witness is found
competent to testify and the court, after careful scrutiny of its
evidence.

In the case of Dattu Ramrao Sakhare-versus-State of

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 11 of 14
Maharashtra, reported in [1997] 5 SCC 341, the Hon'ble Apex court
has held that - “A child witness if found competent to depose to
the facts and reliable one, such evidence could be the basis of
conviction. In other words, even in the absence of oath, the
evidence of child witness can be considered under Section 118
of Indian Evidence Act, provided that such witness is able to
understand the questions and able to give rational answers
thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof
would depend upon the circumstance of each case. The only
precaution which the court should bear in mind while assessing
the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be
reliable one and his/her demeanor must be like any other
competent witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored”.

19). In another case, i.e., Pancchi - versus - State of Uttar
Pradesh, AIR 1998 SC 2726, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that -
“It is not the law that if a witness is a child, his/her evidence
shall be rejected, even if it is found reliable, The law is that
evidence of a child witness must be evaluated more carefully
and with greater circumspection because a child is susceptible
to be swayed by what other tell them and his child witness is
easy prey to tutoring”.

20). The ratio as laid down in the above case is that the
testimony of a child witness is attributed the same kind of credibility
that it attached to the statement any other witness if the testimony is
consistent.

In the present case, the victim has not been consistent on
the material particulars with regard to the incident which is not
supported vital witness like Majar Ali (P.W.6) apart from her
own father. Moreover, Dr. Anima Boro (PW7) did not find any
sign of sexual-intercourse or injury mark on the body of the
victim (PW2).

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 12 of 14
21). Keeping in mind the above rational as laid down by the
Hon'ble Apex Court, | am constrained to hold that the evidence
adduced by the prosecution in support of its case is nothing shorter
than mere conjectures and suspicion. Consequently, the charge under
Sections 376 of IPC read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children
from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 is held to be not proved against the
accused Lalchan Ali beyond all reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the
accused is found entitled to get benefit of doubt, for which, the
accused Lalchan Ali is acquitted on benefit of doubt under Section 376
of IPC read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

22). On scrutiny of the evidence on record, it is seen that no
case has been made out against the accused Lalchan Ali to warrant his
conviction under Section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection
of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 beyond all reasonable
doubt, for which, | am of the opinion that the accused is entitled to
acquittal on benefit of doubt, which | accordingly do.

23). In the result, accused Lalchan Ali is acquitted of the
charge under Section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, levelled against him, on

benefit of doubt.

24). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 18%
day of June, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 13 of 14
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Majibar Rahman, the informant,
P.W.2 = Miss Ranju Moni Begum, the victim,
P.W.3 = Rajesh Kurmar Todi, the then SDJM(S),Barpeta
P.W.4 = Unush Ali,
P.W.5 = Mst. Habiya Khatun,
P.W.6 = Majar Ali,
P.W.7 = Dr. Anima Boro, the M.O.,
P.W.8 = Dago Ali,
P.W.9 = Hajarat Ali,
P.W.10 = Manalisha Madhab Bhakta, the I.O.
(B) Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1 = Statement of the victim,
Ext.1(1) & 1(2) = Signature of Ranju Moni Begum,
Ext.1(3) = Signature of Rajesh Kumar Todi,
Ext.2 = Medical Report,
Ext.2(1) = Signature of Dr. Anima Boro,
Ext.2(2) = Signature of Dr. S.K. Bhuyan,
Ext.3 = Sketch Map,
Ext.3(1) = Signature of S.I. Manalisha Madhab Bhakta
Ext.4 = Charge-sheet,
Ext.4(1) = Signature of S.I. Manalisha Madhab Bhakta

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.
Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special POCSO 11 of 2016 Page 14 of 14
