1 Special (POCSO) Case No.74/2018.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE : LAKHIMPUR :
AT NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

PRESENT-  M.A.Choudhury,
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.74/2018.
Under Section - 366 IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

PARTIES

State of Assam. ... Complainant.
-versus-

Md. Atabur Rahman. ... Accused.

ADVOCATES APPEARED IN THE CASE :

Mr. Madhab Gogoi, Special Public Prosecutor. ... For the State of Assam.

Mr. Bulumoni Das, Advocate. ... For the Accused.

Date of framing of charge. : 04.09.2018.

Dates of taking evidence. : 02.03.2019, 25.03.2019, 03.07.2019,
06.08.2019 and 01.10.2019.

Date of hearing Argument. : 03.10.2019.

Date of delivery of Judgment. : 03.10.2019.

UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution side may, in brief, be
described thus :

On 15.02.2018, the informant, Md. Nurul Islam
lodged an ejahar with Bangalmara Police Out Post under Bihpuria Police
Station to the effect that the victim X, a minor girl aged about 13 years
is his younger sister. On 13.02.2018 at about 5.30 pm, the victim X was

Contd...
2 Special (POCSO) Case No.74/2018.

found missing from his house. In the ejahar, it is stated that some one
had kidnapped his younger sister victim X from his house. He searched
for his sister victim X, but could not find her.

2. On receiving the ejahar, the In-charge of
Bangalmara Police Out Post made GD entry of the same vide
Bangalmara Police Out Post GD Entry No.251 dtd. 15.02.2018 and
forwarded the same to the Officer-in-charge of Bihpuria Police Station
for registering a case under proper sections of Law. On receiving the
ejahar, the Officer-in-charge of Bihpuria Police Station registered a case
vide Bihpuria PS. Case No.71/2018 under Section 366(A) IPC.

3. The police started the investigation of the case.
In course of investigation, the 1.0. visited the place of occurrence and
prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence. The |.0. recovered
the victim X and got her medically examined by the doctor at North
Lakhimpur Civil Hospital. Thereafter, the I.O. got the statement of the
victim X recorded u/s 164 CrPC in the court. The 1.0. arrested the
accused, Md. Atabur Rahman and forwarded him before the court. The
1.0. recorded the statements of the witnesses u/s 161 CrPC. The I.O.
after completion of investigation of the case on being found sufficient
incriminating materials against the accused, Md. Atabur Rahman under
Section 366(A) IPC RW Section 4 of the POCSO Act, submitted the
charge-sheet against the accused, Md. Atabur Rahman under Section
366(A) IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

4. The accused, Md. Atabur Rahman made his
appearance before the court and necessary copies were furnished to
him. After hearing the learned advocates of both sides and perusing
the case record, on being found sufficient incriminating materials
against the accused, Md. Atabur Rahman under Section 366 IPC and
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act in the case record, the charges under
Section 366 IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act had been

Contd...
3 Special (POCSO) Case No.74/2018.

framed against the accused, Md. Atabur Rahman. The charges were
read over and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. In course of trial, the prosecution side examined
6 (six) witnesses.

6. The statement of the accused person was
recorded u/s 313 CrPC. The accused person in his aforesaid statement
recorded u/s 313 CrPC denied the commission of any offence.

7. The accused person led no evidence in his
defence.

8. Heard Argument from the learned advocates of
both sides.

9. Perused the case record and the evidence
adduced by the prosecution witnesses in the case very carefully.

10. The points for determination in this case are :

(1) Whether the accused, Md. Atabur Rahman on
13.02.2018 at about 5.30 pm at night at village, Daulatpur under
Bihpuria Police Station, Dist. Lakhimpur, kidnapped the victim X, a
minor girl above the age of 12 years with intent that she might be
compelled or knowing it to be likely that she would be compelled to
marry the accused person or that she might be forced or seduced to

illicit intercourse with him?
(Il) Whether the accused, Md. Atabur Rahman after

kidnapping the victim X, a minor girl above the age of 12 years,

committed penetrative sexual assault on her person?

Contd...
4 Special (POCSO) Case No.74/2018.

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

11. PW.1 is the victim X. PW.1, the victim X in her
evidence stated that the informant, Md. Nurul Islam is her elder
brother. She knows the accused, Md. Atabur Rahman. The house of the
accused, Md. Atabur Rahman is situated in her village. According to her
evidence, the occurrence had taken place about 1 (one) year back. On
the date of occurrence, her mother had rebuked her. Then, she went to
the house of her aunt situated at Karunabari without informing her
mother and other family members. After 2 (two) days while she was in
the house of her aunt, she came to know that a case had been filed
with Police Station regarding her missing. Then, she came back to her
house and stated to her mother that no one had kidnapped her and
she had gone to the house of her aunt. According to her evidence, the
accused person neither kidnapped her nor performed any sexual
intercourse with her. According to her evidence, the police had taken
her into the Police Station from her house and then took her to North
Lakhimpur Civil Hospital and got her medically examined.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.1, the victim X.
On a careful scrutiny of her evidence, | do not find any incriminating
material in her evidence against the accused person regarding

commission of any offence.

12. PW.2, Md. Nurul Islam is the informant of the
case as well as elder brother of the victim X. PW.2, Md. Nurul Islam
stated in his evidence stated that he knows the accused, Md. Atabur
Rahman, whose house is situated at Anmedpur, which is adjacent to
their village. According to his evidence, the occurrence had taken place
about 1 (one) year back. At the time of occurrence, he was not in the
house, he was in Arunachal Pradesh. On the following day of the
occurrence, he came to his house from Arunachal Pradesh. Then, he
came to know from his mother, Musstt. Halima Khatun that the victim X
had left the house on the previous day. Then, he searched for the
victim X, but could not find her. Thereafter, he lodged the ejahar with

Contd...
5 Special (POCSO) Case No.74/2018.

Bangalmara Police Out Post. According to his evidence, on the following
day of filing of the ejahar, the victim X returned back to his house.
Then, the victim X had stated that she had gone to the house of her
aunt situated at Karunabari as her mother had abused her. He in his
evidence stated that the victim X had stated to him that the accused
person had neither kidnapped her nor performed any _ sexual

intercourse with her.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.2, Md. Nurul
Islam, the elder brother of the victim X as well as informant of the case.
On a careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not find any incriminating
material in his evidence against the accused person regarding

commission of any offence.

13. PW.3, Md. Kasem Ali in his evidence stated that
he knows the accused, Md. Atabur Rahman, whose house is situated
about 1 % km away from his house in the same village. He in his
evidence stated that he knows the informant, Md. Nurul Islam, whose
house is situated nearby his house. He in his evidence stated that he
knows the victim X, who is the sister of the informant, Md. Nurul Islam.
He in his evidence stated that he did not know anything regarding the

occurrence.

14. PW.4, Md. Nur Jamal in his evidence stated that
he knows the accused, Md. Atabur Rahman. The house of the accused,
Md. Atabur Rahman is situated in the village which is adjacent to his
village. He in his evidence stated that he knows the victim X. The
house of the victim X is situated about % km away from his house. He
in his evidence stated that he knows the informant, Md. Nurul Islam,
who is the elder brother of the victim X. According to his evidence, the
occurrence had taken place about 1 (one) year back. At the time of
occurrence, he was not in his house. He had gone to Barpeta. After
about 1 (one) week from the date of occurrence, he came back to his
house. Then, he came to know from Md. Ziaur Rahman, whose house is
situated nearby the house of the informant, Md. Nurul Islam that the

Contd...
6 Special (POCSO) Case No.74/2018.

victim X was missing from her house and thereafter, she had returned
back to her house. He in his evidence stated that he did not know who
had kidnapped the victim X. He did not know anything regarding the

occurrence of this case.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.4, Md. Nur
Jamal. There is no any incriminating material in his evidence against

the accused person regarding commission of any offence.

15. PW.6 is SI Lakheswar Handique, who is the
Investigating Officer of the case, who had investigated the case and
thereafter, submitted the charge-sheet in the case against the
accused, Md. Atabur Rahman. He in his evidence stated that as per
information of the reliable source, he recovered the victim X from the
house of the accused, Md. Atabur Rahman. He in his evidence stated
that when he recovered the victim X from the house of the accused,
Md. Atabur Rahman, he did not find the accused, Md.Atabur Rahman in
his house. He found other village people in the house. But, the victim X
in her evidence stated that the police had taken her into the Police
Station from her house and thereafter, forwarded her to North
Lakhimpur Civil Hospital to get her medically examined.

16. The accused, Md. Atabur Rahman in_ his
statement recorded u/s 313 CrPC denied that the victim X had been

recovered from his house.

17. PW.5, Dr. Moromi Kalita is the Medical Officer of
the case. In view of the discussion of the evidence adduced by the
prosecution witnesses made here-in-above, | find it redundant to
discuss the evidence of the M.O., PW.5, Dr. Moromi Kalita.

18. Because of what have been discussed and
pointed out here-in-above, it is appeared that the prosecution side has
totally failed to prove the charges under Section 366 IPC and under

Contd...
7 Special (POCSO) Case No.74/2018.

Section 4 of the POCSO Act brought against the accused, Md. Atabur
Rahman. The accused person deserves to be acquitted.

19. |, therefore, hold the accused, Md. Atabur
Rahman not guilty and acquit him from the charges under Section 366
IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act. The accused person is set at
his liberty forthwith.

20. The bail bond of the accused person is
cancelled and his surety is discharged.

21. Given under my hand and seal of this court on
this the 3% day of October, 2019.

(M. A. Choudhury )
Special Judge,

Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Dictated & corrected by me -

( M.A.Choudhury )
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by-
Sri Satyabrata Kshattry, Stenographer.

APPENDIX

1. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE :

PW.1 - Victim X.
PW.2 - Md. Nurul Islam, the elder brother of the victim X as well as
informant of the case.
PW.3 - Md. Kasem Ali.
PW.4 - Md. Nur Jamal.
Contd...
8 Special (POCSO) Case No.74/2018.

PW.5 - Dr. Moromi Kalita, the M.O. of the case.
PW.6 - SI Lakheswar Handique, the |.O. of the case.

2. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE :
Nil.

3. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE IN THE CASE :
Ext.1 - Statement of the victim X recorded u/s 164 CrPC.

Ext.2 - Ejahar.

Ext.3 - Medical Examination Report.

Ext.4 - Sketch map of the place of occurrence.

Ext.5 - Charge-sheet.

4. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE IN THE CASE :
Nil.

( M. A. Choudhury )
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
