 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,

Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 06 (M) of 2018
U/s 4 OF THE POCSO Act
The State of ASSAM .......ccceeceeeeeeeeeees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Mridul Sen @ Nidul
S/o- Sri Narayan Sen
R/o- Dihing T.E, Pathar Basti
P.S- Marghertia
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM ok... eeeeeeeeeeeeee eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,
Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the Complainant
Mr. S.K Agarwal,

Advocate  —______ihinaceauectecteeeeees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 18/05/2018

Date of Judgment: 18/05/2018

U D GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. On 15/02/2018 Sri Ajay Tanti had lodged an ejahar
before police, alleging that the accused being the husband of
his sister had married another girl. So, the informant Ajay
Tanti sought the help of police. During the period of
investigation, the victim girl was sent for medical
examination. The doctor interalia reported that the victim
was between 19 to 22 years of age. The victim girl was also
sent to the court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC,
wherein she stated that she was 13 years of old at that time.
She has stated before the Magistrate that two months prior to
the occurrence, she had eloped with the accused and stayed
with him for the next two months. During that period, she
and the accused had physical relationship. The victim
disclosed that her husband had married another girl from
Dibrugarh.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

2. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

3. In the instant case, the prosecution side has examined
the informant Ajay Tanti and the victim girl. The defence plea
is total denial and no evidence has been adduced by the
accused. | have carefully gone through the prosecution
evidences. The sum and substance of the evidence of Ajay
Tanti is that his sister was given in marriage to the accused
and on one occasion, she suspected that the accused was
having some sort of relationship with another woman and on
that issue she returned home. He has stated that the
suspicion of his sister was not true and therefore after filing
of the ejahar by him, the victim girl continued to stay with
the accused till today.

4. The victim girl has also stated in the similar manner.
She has stated that she suspected that her husband was
having illicit relationship with another woman and on that
issue she returned home, but she has admitted that presently
she has been residing with the accused. The victim girl has
stated that she was given in marriage to the accused.

5. On perusal of the evidence adduced by the prosecution
side, | have found that the prosecution side has failed to
prove the offence against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubts.

6. Here in this case, the doctor has reported that the age
of the victim girl is about 19 to 22 years. Today, while she
was examined by the Ld Special Public Prosecutor, she has
stated her age today is 20 years. The Ld. Special Public
Prosecutor has filed a document, issued by the Gaonburha,
wherein, it was stated that the victim was born on
15/05/1998. In my considered opinion, the age certificate
given by the Gaoburha is never acceptable in the eye of law.
At this stage, | am of the considered opinion that the
evidence of the victim girl to the effect that she was about 20
years old at the time of occurrence, deserves to be accepted.
The occurrence of this case took place only three months
ago. Considering all these facts, | hereby hold that the
prosecution has failed to prove the offence against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

7. That being the position, the accused Mridul Sen is
found not guilty and accordingly the accused is acquitted

from this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
18th day of May, 2018.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Sri Ajay Tanti

2. PW2 - Smti Sivani Tanti
PROSECUTION EXHIBITS
1. M. Ext.1- Birth Certificate of victim
DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
