IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::::::: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.19/2018

State of Assam
Versus

Md Hasmatullah Sk... Accused

Present: Smti Mitali Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State : Mr M.K.Ghose, Special P.P.

Ld. advocate for the accused : Mr K.M.Choudhury

Evidence recorded on _ : 12.7.18, 01.8.18, 04.9.18 & 04.10.18
Argument heardon ~~: 04.10.2018
Judgment delivered on: 04.10.2018

JUDGEMENT

1. The prosecution story in brief is that on 18.3.2018 the informant
S.I. Jiten Phukan lodged the first information report with the allegation that on
16.02.18 at about 2.30 P.M. the accused Hasmatullah Sk., head-Master of
Lalmati Goraimari L.P. School committed rape on a minor girl who is student
of his school. Hence, the first information report.

2. On receipt of the first information report in Bogribari P.S., a case
has been registered under Bogribari P.S. case No.27/2018 under section 4 of
Protection of Children from Sexual Offices Act and case was endorsed to S.I.

Rustam Ali Ahmed for investigation. During investigation the I. O. visited to
Special Case No.19/18

2

the place of occurrence and recorded the statement of the witnesses, recovered

the victim girl, medically examined her and after ascertaining the minor age of

the victim, the charge sheet has been filed by the I.O. under section 4 POCSO

Act against the accused Hasmatullah Sk. Relevant copies also furnished to the

accused and the charge under section 4 of POCSO Act was framed against the

accused finding a prima-facie case. The charge was read over and explained to

the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

oe

The prosecution side examined as many as 13 (thirteen) number

of witnesses including the informant and the victim as follows:-

4.

PW 1 S.I. Jiten Phukan (Informant),
PW 2 Md Abdul Hannan Sk.,

PW 3 Miss Kapina Begum (victim),
PW4 Md Aizuddin,

PW5 Md Jalil Sk.,

PW6 Md Sahidul Islam,

PW 7 Mosstt Samiran Bibi,

PW8 Md Kalimuddin Sk.,

PW9 Sri Jayanta Kr.Brahma,

PW10 Smti Dipali Brahma,

PW11 Mosstt Omisa Bibi,

PW12 Mosstt Mamtaz Begum and
PW13 Mosstt Romisa Khatun.

The accused person took the plea of total denial while recording

his statement under section 313 of Cr.PC., and declined to adduce any

evidence.

oe

Point for determination:
Whether the accused person committed the offence of

penetrative sexual assault to the minor victim ?
Special Case No.19/18

3

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

 

6. To arrive at a just decision I have thoroughly perused the
evidences of prosecution witnesses, assessed them and heard argument put
forwarded of both sides and the case is decided as follows:-

7. The first information report of this case was lodged by SI Jiten
Phukan at Bogribari Police Station with the allegation that the accused
Hasmatullah Sk., head-Master of Lalmati Goraimari L.P. School committed
rape on a minor girl who is student of his school. The villagers from Lalmati
gave a complaint before the Superintendent of Police, Kokrajhar and
accordingly as per the direction of the Superintendent of Police, Kokrajhar he
made GD Entry and then visited the place of occurrence along with his staff
and thereafter recording the statement of the witnesses the first information
report was lodged by the informant. But, surprisingly the parents of the victim
ie. PW7 and PW8 did not utter anything against the accused person rather
both PW7 and PW8 deposed that they do not know as to why their daughter
was taken to Police Station.

8. Coming to the evidence of the victim, it reveals that she deposed
in her evidence as PW3 and her evidence was recorded after asertaining her
capability of understanding. As per her on the day of the incident the accused
who is Head-Master of her school scolded her and also beat her as she was
remained absent in the school and except that incident no other incident took
place with her.

9. PW1, informant of this case is also police personnel and he
simply lodged the first information report on the basis of memo. issued by the
Superintendent of Police, Kokrajhar. He made GD Entry and endorsed SI

Rustom Ali Ahmed for investigation. However, he stated in his evidence that
Special Case No.19/18

4

he lodged the first information report as he found the incident is true after
recording the statement of the witnesses. Thus, it is seen that PW1 has no
personal knowledge in respect of the incident took place with the victim
though he stated that after recording the statement of the witnesses he filed the
first information report.

10. PWs2, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 did not say anything about the
incident and they do not know as to why the Head-Master of the school
(accused) was arrested by police. Out of these witnesses PWs 9 and PW13 are
Assistant Teachers of the said school. PWs10, 11 and 12 are mid-day meal
cooks of the said school. So it is very obvious for these witnesses to have
knowledge in regard to the incident alleged against the accused or who is
headmaster of their school. But, all these witnesses denied the prosecution
version and they did not support the prosecution case. More so, PW7 and
PW8, the parents of the victim also did not support the prosecution case and as
per them no incident of rape etc. had happened with their daughter.

11. PWs4, 5 and 6 however deposed in their evidence that they
heard about the incident of rape on the victim girl by the head-master of the
said school. As per PW4 he was asked by one Isamuddin to go to the police
station saying that the accused committed rape on the daughter of Kalimuddin.
As per him, the father of the victim lodged the first information report at the
police station. But, from his cross evidence it reveals that he has no personal
knowledge about the occurrence and he also does not know as to who lodged
the first information report. PW5 also deposed that his father informed him
about the incident of rape with the daughter of Kalimuddin and accordingly he
visited to the police station. Thus, PW5 is also hearsay witness and he heard
about the incident from his father and not from the victim or her father. Again
PW6 deposed that he heard about the incident from PW5 but, he did not visit

to the police station.
Special Case No.19/18

5
12. So these three witnesses i.e. PWs4, 5 and 6 deposed that they
heard about the incident of rape with the victim, daughter of Kalimuddin. But,
except these three witnesses no other witnesses have uttered anything about
the commission of rape by the accused who is student of his school. These
three witnesses are not employees of the school to have any personal
knowledge about the incident which took place in the school. So, their
evidence have to be corroborated with the other witnesses who are employees
or teachers of the school and only on the basis of their hearsay evidence, the
accused cannot be convicted under section 4 POCSO Act when the victim
herself did not support the prosecution case and at the same time her parents
also did not utter anything against the accused.
13. The defence took plea that the accused has been falsely
implicated in this case as he prevented PWs4, 5 and 6 from doing some
misdeeds in the school. The defence also put suggestion to the PWs4, 5 and 6
that a false case is lodged against the accused with their initiative only to
harass the accused for their previous enmity. It is also suggested to PW4 that
he along with other associates lodged the case as the accused being head-
master of the school refused to give rice meant for mid-day meal of the school
of the students. The defence version cannot be outrightly rejected as
testimonies of the prosecution witnesses it is seen that except PWs4, 5 and 6
none of the witnesses specially the victim and her parents did not support the
prosecution case.
14. So from the detail discussion made above, it is seen that the
prosecution could not establish the case against the accused Hasmatullah Sk.
under section 4 of POCSO Act beyond all shadow of doubt and hence giving
the benefit of doubt I hereby acquit the accused and set him at liberty
forthwith.
Special Case No.19/18

6
15. The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the court on this 04th October/2018 at Kokrajhar court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
