Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL | UDGE, SIVASAGAR

Present - Shri Biprajit Roy, AJ S.
Special | udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 14/2019

U/S sec. 451/376(2)(1)/511 of IPC & section 8 of POCSO
Act
State
-Vs-
Dipak Das
Advocates appeared:

For the State : - Mr. S. Gogoi,
For the accused : - Mr. |. Hussain,
Date of evidence » - 21.05.2019, 22.05.2019, 10.06.2019,23.07.2019,
19.10.2019, 04.11.2019,30.11.2019.
Date of argument > - 11.12.2019
Date of judgment > - 21.12.2019
UDGMENT
I, The case of the prosecution is that on 05.12.2018 at about 9.00 p.m. the

OC of Nazira PS received a phone call from VDP informing that the local people of
Bihubar has apprehended a suspected criminal and the public has assaulted him
physically. Accordingly the Nazira police station GD entry no. 126 dated 05.12.2018
was made. ASI Jayanta Kumar Das was immediately sent to the place of
occurrence. Jayanta Kumar Das returned back to the police station along with the
suspected person. After his medical examination, the person was kept in the police
station. The GD entry 129 was accordingly made. Thereafter the next day i.e. on
06.12.2018 the informant Anjali Das lodged an FIR in the Nazira police station
stating that on 05.12.2018 the accused Dipak Das attempted to commit rape on a
minor deaf and dumb girl 'X'(name withheld) aged about 13 years who used to stay

under care of Anjali and Gagan.

Page 1 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

2. The Officer-in-charge of Nazira Police Station received the said FIR and
registered Nazira P.S. case no. 247/2018 u/s 448/376/511 of IPC read with section
8 of POCSO Act

3. The case was investigated by WSI(P) Marchila D. Sangma .On completion
of investigation charge-sheet was submitted against the accused Dipak Das u/s
448/376(2)(|) of IPC and read with section 6 of the POCSO Act.

4, As the accused was in jail custody legal-aid-counsel Mr. |. Hussain was
engaged as legal-aid-counsel to defend the accused and he defended the accused
till the end of the trial.

5. Copy of relevant documents were furnished. After hearing Id. counsel of
both sides and taking into consideration the materials available on record, charge
u/s. 451 of IPC, 376(2)(I) of IPC and section 8 of POCSO Act were framed against
the accused which were read over and explained to the accused to which he

pleaded not guilty.

6, In the course of trial prosecution side examined 10 (ten) witnesses.

l(one) Court witness was examined. The defence plea was of denial.

i The accused person was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. During examination u/s
313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that at the relevant point of time he was under

intoxication and did not know what he was doing.
8. Heard argument of learned counsel of both sides.
9, The points for determination in this case are:
(i) Whether the victim ' X ' was aged about 13 years?

(ii) Whether on 05.12.2018 at about 6.00 p.m. the accused Dipak Das

entered inside the house where the victim girl was staying?

(ili) Whether the accused attempted to commit rape of the minor

victim?

(iv) | Whether the accused committed any other offence?

Page 2 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

Decision, discussion and reasons:

 

Point no. - 1:

10. The P.W.1 Ram Das in his evidence stated that the victim 'X ' is deaf and
dumb. He stated that he does not know her present age. The PW-2 Gagan Das in
his evidence stated that the victim girl is deaf and dumb but later on the PW-2
stated that the victim girl can hear but she cannot speak. She also cannot read
and write and she is aged about 8/9 years. The PW-2 further stated that the victim
girl is an orphan and she lives with him. The PW-3 Feru Das stated in his evidence
that the victim girl is deaf and dumb. The PW-4 Anjali Das is the informant. She
stated that the victim girl is deaf and dumb and she is aged about 13/14 years old.
The PW-5 Boby Tanti stated in her evidence that the victim girl was aged about
10/12 years. The PW-6 Manoj Das stated in his evidence that the victim girl is deaf
and dumb. The PW-8 Dr. S. Changmai in his evidence stated that on the basis of
the report of the Radiologist he is of the opinion that the age of the victim girl in
between 15 to 18 years. Ext. 4 is the medical report wherein Ext. 4(1) is his
signature. The PW-8 in his report also stated that the general behaviour of the

victim girl was non-cooperative and she was mentally reiterated.

11. In his examination u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. the accused admitted that the victim
girl is deaf and dumb. The accused also stated that the victim girl is aged about

13/14 years only.

12. From perusal of the report of the Radiologist it appears that the lower and
upper epiphysis of the radius and ulna were not fused and therefore, her age was

determined in between 15 to 18 years.

13. From the above discussion it is clear that the accused himself admitted
that the victim girl was aged about 13/14 years. The other prosecution witnesses
also stated that she was 13/14 years old. The PW-4 who normally takes care of

the said victim stated in her evidence that she was aged about 13/14 years old.

14. The victim girl was produced before the Id. J MFC, Sivasagar for recording
her statement u/s 164 of Cr.P.C. with the assistance of interpreter Smt. Papari
Bora who is a teacher at the school for hearing impaired at J orhat. The Id. J MFC,

Sivasagar after observing the victim girl recorded her age as 13 years. Therefore

Page 3 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

it cannot be safely concluded that the victim girl was aged about 13/14 years
(below 18 years) and she is deaf and dumb. The interpreter also stated that the

victim girl did not respond to her and the statement could not be recorded.

Point no. 2:

15. The PW-1 Ram Das stated in his evidence that on 05.12.2018 he went to
the house of Kacchu Das for charging his mobile phone. At that time Anjali came
there and informed him that a man was raping the victim in the house of Gagan
Das. Then the PW-1 along with Anjali Das went to the house of Gagan Das. They
pushed the door and saw the accused inside the house committing rape on the
victim girl. Immediately the PW-1 went inside and pulled up the accused from the
victim's body. The accused asked him as to who he was to do that. He then
slapped the accused. In the meantime villagers gathered. They were armed with
‘lathi’, 'axe' etc. So the PW-1 took the accused to the cowshed and locked him
inside. The PW-3 Feru Das stated in his evidence that on 05.12.2018, hearing hue
and cry he went to the house of GaganDas and saw the accused Dipak Das with
his pant removed. He also saw the victim girl without clothes. Public tried to
assault Dipak Das but he was kept confined in a cowshed for safety. The PW-4
Anjali Das in her evidence stated that on the date of occurrence in the evening
she was preparing tea. At that time she heard cry of the victim girl. Her house is
near the house of Gagan Das where the victim girl used to stay. She looked inside
the house and pushed the door and saw the accused Dipak Das upon the victim
girl. She then called Ram Das and till then he accused was in the same position.
The PW-5 Boby Tanti stated in her evidence that at the time of incident she was
working in the kitchen. The victim girl used to live in the house of Gagan Das
which is adjacent to her house. She saw the victim crying and the accused was
upon her. The victim was nude and he accused had also removed his pant. She
saw the incident through the hole of the wall of her house. She stated that in
between her house and the house of Gagan Das, there is a bamboo fencing. She
immediately came out and saw Anjali there. Then a large number of public

gathered and the accused was dragged from the place and he was kept in a room.

16. From the evidence of the prosecution witnesses as discussed above it
appears that the accused was found inside the house of Gagan Das where the

minor victim girl used to live. From perusal of the cross-examination of the
Page 4 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

prosecution witnesses it appears that the presence of the accused inside the
house of Gagan Das is not disputed by the defence. During cross-examination the
PW-1 and other prosecution witnesses were contradicted on some minor
discrepancies but those were not confirmed by the defence while cross-examining
by the 1.0.

17. Hence it is held that on the date of occurrence at the relevant point of
time the accused Dipak Das had entered inside the house of Gagan Das with

intention to commit offence.

18. It is pertinent to mention here that during examination u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.,
the accused took the plea that he was under intoxication at the time of occurrence
and did not know what he was doing. Intoxication when voluntary is no defence
and therefore, it cannot be said that the accused did not have any intention to

commit the crime against the minor, deaf and dumb victim girl.

Point nos. 3&4:

19. The PW-8 Dr S. Changmai stated in his evidence that on 06.12.2018 in
connection with Nazira PS case no. 247/2018he examined the minor victim who
was produced by HG RabitaSaikia and attendant sister Jyoti (staff). On
examination he found the general behaviour of minor victim was non-co-operative
and she was mentally retarded. On examination of her private parts no
abnormality was detected. No sign of recent sexual intercourse or sign of injury
was detected. Ext.4 is the medical examination report wherein Ext. 4 (1) is his
signature. From the materials available on record it appears that the incident took
place on 05.12.2018 in the evening and the victim girl was produced before the
PW-8 for medical examination on 06.12.2018. According to PW-8 there was no
sign of any recent sexual intercourse. He also did not find any sign of injury on
examination of the victim. From perusal of the written Ejahar it appears that the
informant alleged that the accused only attempted to commit rape of the minor

victim girl.

20. The PW-1 Ram Das in his evidence stated that he had seen the accused
committing rape on the minor victim. She was lying on the ground and the

accused was upon the victim. The pant of the accused was removed at that time.
Page 5 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

He then went inside and pulled out the accused from the victim's body. The
accused was under intoxication. He asked the PW-1 as to who he was to do that.
Then the PW-1 slapped him. Though in his cross-examination the PW-1 was
confronted with some part of his statement u/s 161 of Cr.P.C. but while cross-
examining the |.0., those were not confirmed by the defence as contradiction and
therefore, those cannot be taken into consideration. The PW-1 in his cross-
examination stated that he suspected commission of rape as the victim and the
accused were nude and the accused was on the body of the victim girl. He PW-2
Gagan Das in his evidence stated that on 05.12.2018 after returning from market
at about 7.00 p.m. he saw Anjali and Ram Das in his house. They scolded him for
leaving the girl alone. He saw the accused Dipak Das in the house of Anjali with
his pant removed and the victim was without clothes. But in cross-examination he
stated that he did not say so before the |.0. He also admitted that he actually did
not know what had happened.

21. The PW-4 Anjali Das in her evidence sated that on the date of occurrence
in the evening she heard cry of the victim girl. As the house was near her house,
she looked inside by pushing the door. She saw the accused had removed his
pant. The clothes of the victim girl were pulled upwards and she was half naked.
She then called Ram Das. Ram Das came and till then the accused was in the
same position. Then Ram Das kicked the accused and informed the VDP. Though
PW-4 was confronted with his statement recorded by the |.0. but those were not
confirmed while cross-examining the |.0. and therefore those cannot be taken
into consideration. While cross-examining the PW-4 the defence suggested that
the accused only attempted to commit rape and the said suggestion was denied
by the said PW.

22. The PW-5 Boby Tanti in her evidence stated that her house is adjacent to
the house of Gagan Das and in between the two houses there is a bamboo
fencing. She stated that at the relevant point of time she saw the victim crying
and the accused was upon her body. The victim was nude and the accused had
also removed his pant.

In cross-examination the PW-5 stated that she did not state anything

before the 1.0. because she was not asked anything by the |.0.

23. The PW-6 Manoj Das sated in his evidence that on 05.12.2018 he saw a

large gathering in the house of Anjali. On enquiry he came to know from public
Page 6 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

that the accused had rapd the victim girl. He also came to know that the rape was
committed in the house of Gagan Das. He saw the accused in the courtyard of
Anjali and Gagan Das surrounded by the public. In the mean time police arrived.
Police seized the pant and belt of Dipak Das and took his signature in the seizure
list which is marked as Ext. 2 wherein Ext. 2(1) is his signature. The PW-6 also
identified the pant and belt marked as M. Ext.1 and M. Ext.2.

In cross-examination he stated that he came to know that the pant and
the belt belonged to accused Dipak Das as at that time Dipak was without any

pant.

24. The PW-7 J] oydeepBaruah stated in his evidence that on 07.12.2018 he
was working as Bench Assistant in the Court of Id. JMFC, Nazira. On that day
statement u/s 164 of Cr.P.C. of Anjali Das was recorded in the said Court. Ext.3 is
the said statement wherein Ext. 3(1) and 3(2) are her signatures. Ext.3 (3) is the

signature of Id. J MFC, Nazira which he can recognize.

20. The PW-9 Ajay Das in his evidence stated that during investigation police
seized one pant of Dipak Das and took his signature in the seizure list which is
marked as Ext. 2(2).

In cross-examination he admitted that from the villagers he came to
know that the pant belonged to Dipak Das. He also stated that police took his
signature on blank paper but after he had identified the pant of Dipak.

26. The PW-10 WSI(P) Marchila D. Sangma in her evidence stated that on
06.12.2018 the FIR was lodged by Anjali Das. Prior to that on 05.12.2018 on the
basis of telephonic information, GD entry was made and ASI Jayanta Das had
visited the place of occurrence and arrested the accused. The rest of the
investigation was done by PW-10. She stated that the statement of the victim girl
could not be recorded as she was incapable of giving any statement. She was also
produced before the Id. JMFC, Sivasagar for recording her statement u/s 164 of
Cr.P.C. with the help of interpreter but the same could not be recorded as the
victim girl did not respond to the gesture of the interpreter also. It is pertinent to
mention here that the victim girl was produced before this Court also from Aahana
Children's Home on 16.11.2019. But her evidence could not be recorded as she

did not respond to anything.
Page 7 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

2]. The PW-10 stated that on completion of investigation she submitted
charge-sheet against the accused Dipak Das u/s 448/376(2)(l) of IPC read with
section 6 of POCSO Act. Ext. 2 is the seizure list wherein Ext.2(3) is her signature.
Ext. 6 is the sketch map wherein Ext. 6(1) is her signature. Ext.7 is the charge-

sheet wherein Ex. 7(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination the PW- 10 stated that in the FIR the informant
stated that the accused attempted to commit rape of the victim girl. She also
stated that the PW Boby Tanti stated before her that she saw the accused
dragging the victim girl. She admitted that the seized articles were not sent for

forensic examination.

28. As stated already the accused took the plea (in his examination u/s 313
of Cr.P.C) that he was under intoxication at that time and did not know what he

was doing.

29. From the evidence as discussed above it becomes clear that on the date
of occurrence the accused who was a resident of the neighbouring area entered
inside the house where the victim was staying. The accused was under voluntary
intoxication. He removed his pant and then also disrobed the victim and then
raised upon the victim. From the evidence of the witnesses it is clear that at the
time of the occurrence the accused was nude and the victim was half naked as
her clothes were pulled upward. So the intention of the accused was to commit
rape. Though he was under the influence of liquor and he could not materialize his
intention by inserting his penis into the vagina of the victim but he was on the
body of the victim girl and he had also undressed himself and pulled the clothes of
the victim girl up and made her half naked. The nature and extent of his
intoxication can be inferred from the fact that when the PW-1 Ram Das pulled him
up from the body of the victim girl, he charged the PW-1 as to who he was to do
that. A normal human being in such a situation will try to run away or try to hide
somewhere but the accused acted like an intoxicated man and charged the PW-1.
In his examination under section 313 Cr.P.C. the accused also stated this fact. But

intoxication when voluntary is no defence.

Page 8 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

30. The Hon’ble Gauhati High Court in 2018 SCC OnLineGau2030 :
(2018) 6 Gau LR 436 : 2018(5) GL] Rajendra Kr Dey vs State of Assam on
377/511 IPC observed as follows:

“6. The petitioner was convicted for attempt to commit an offence under
section 377/511, IPC. Though section 511, IPC provided punishment for attempt to
commit an offence for which no express provision for punishment is made, the
‘attempt’ has not been defined in the statute. However, the illustrations to section
511, IPC can be looked into, which may throw some light as to what constitute an
‘attempt’. Following are the two illustrations appended to section 511, IPC.

“Illustrations : (a) A makes an attempt to steal some jewels by breaking open a
box, and finds after so opening the box, that there is no jewel in it. He has done an
act towards the commission of theft, and, therefore, is guilty under this section.

(b) A makes an attempt to pick the pocket of Z by thrusting his hand into Z's
pocket. A fails in the attempt in consequence of Z's having nothing in his pocket. A
is guilty under this section.”

7. The above illustrations suggest, that a person shall be liable for attempt to
commit a particular offence under section 511, IPC, when the offender with
requisite intention, does any act or a series of act, which leads inevitably to the
commission of the offence, unless something, beyond control of the offender or
something which he never foresaw happens to prevent the completion of the
offence. In order to understand the ‘attempt’ to commit an offence, one has to
keep in mind, that there are four stages in the commission of offence, i.e., (i)
intention to commit the offence, (ii) preparation to commit the offence, (iii) attempt
to commit the offence and (iv) commission of the offence. In order to find out
whether certain facts constitute the offence of ‘attempt’ the court needs to
distinguish between the various stages of commission of an offence, though the
line between two different stages may be very thin.

8. The Apex Court, in Abayananda Mishra, AIR 1961 SC 1698 observed that
there is a thin line between preparation for and attempt to commit an offence.
Undoubtedly a culprit must intend to commit offence, then makes preparation for
committing it and thereafter, attempts to commit the offence. If the attempt
succeeds the offence is committed. If he fails due to reasons beyond his control, he
is said to have been attempted to commit the offence. Therefore, mere preparation
to commit an offence, does not attract section 511, IPC. There must be some overt
act after the preparation is made, towards the commission of the offence, and
when after preparation is made with the intention to commit an offence, the
accused proceeds further to complete the offence, but failed to succeed due to
intervention by some external agents beyond his control, had he not been
intervened by circumstances beyond his control, the offence would have been
completed. In such circumstances only it can be said that there was an attempt to
commit the offence. The Apex Court in Aman Kumar (supra) observed in para 9 as
under

“An attempt to commit an offence is an act, or a series of acts, which leads
inevitably to the commission of the offence, unless something, which the doer of
the act neither foresaw nor intended, happens to prevent this. An attempt may be
described to be an act done in part execution of a criminal design, amounting to
more than mere preparation, but falling short of actual consummation, and,

Page 9 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

possessing, except for failure to consummate, all the elements of the substantive
crime. In other words, an attempt consists in it the intent to commit a crime, falling
short of, its actual commission. It may consequently be defined as that which if not
prevented would have resulted in the full consummation of the act attempted. The
illustrations given in section 51 clearly show the legislative intention to make a
difference between the cases of a mere preparation and an attempt.”

9.1n Aman Kumar's case, the Apex Court further held in para 8 of the
judgment as under:

“A culprit first intends to commit the offence, then makes preparation for
committing it and thereafter attempts to commit the offence. If the attempt
succeeds, he has committed the offence; if it fails due to reasons beyond his
control, he is said to have attempted to commit the offence. Attempt to commit an
offence can be said to begin when the preparations are complete and the culprit
commences to do something with the intention of committing the offence and
which is a step towards the commission of the offence. The moment he
commences to do an act with the necessary intention, he commences his attempt
to commit the offence. The word ‘attempt’ is not itself defined, and must,
therefore, be taken in its ordinary meaning. This is exactly what the provisions of
section, 511 require. An attempt to commit a crime is to be distinguished from an
intention to commit it; and from preparation made for its commission. Mere
intention to commit an offence, not followed by any act, cannot constitute an
offence. The will is not be taken for the deed unless there be some external act
which shows that progress has been made in the direction of it, or towards
maturing and effecting it. Intention is the direction of conduct towards the object
chosen upon considering the motives which suggest the choice.

Preparation consists in devising or arranging the means or measures necessary
for the commission of the offence. It differs widely from attempt which is the direct
movement towards the commission after preparations are made. Preparation to
commit an offence is punishable only when the preparation is to commit offences
under section 122 (waging war against the Government of India) and section 399
(preparation to commit dacoity). The dividing line between a mere preparation and
an attempt is sometimes thin and has to be decided on the facts of each case.
There is a greater degree of determination in attempt as compared with
preparation.”

10. 1n order to convict a person for attempt to commit an offence against
human body with the aid of section 511, IPC, prosecution must prove beyond
reasonable doubt that the accused with the requisite intention to commit a
particular offence made the preparation and thereafter does any act or series of
acts towards completion of such offence, notwithstanding any resistance from the
victim, but failed to succeed for the circumstances beyond his control. Therefore, in
order to convict a person for attempt to commit an offence, the court must
distinguish an attempt to commit offence from intention to commit it and
preparation, though the line between the two is very thin, reason being that mere
intention to commit offence is not punishable and preparation for committing an
offence is also not punishable, except in case of certain offences, where
preparation itself is made punishable by the statute.”

Page 10 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

31. Therefore keeping in mind the above observations and also taking into
consideration the evidence adduced by the prosecution, it is clear that the
prosecution has been successful in bringing home the guilt of the accused beyond
all reasonable doubt. From the discussion made above it is clear that the accused
attempted to commit rape of the victim girl who is physically and mentally
retarded and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 511 of IPC
read with section 376 (2) (1) of IPC.

The act committed by the accused also constitutes an offence punishable
under section 18 of POCSO Act read with section 6 of the POCSO Act but charge
was framed under section 8 of POCSO Act which is a lesser offence and so the
power under section 222 Cr.P.C. cannot be exercised in this case so far as the
offence under section POCSO Act is concerned.

But so far section 511 read with section 376 (2) (I) of IPC is concerned,
the same is a lesser offence than section 376 (2) (I) of IPC and so the power
under section 222 Cr.P.C. can be exercised.

Hence by exercising the power conferred under section 42 of POCSO Act
the accused Dipak Das is held guilty and convicted under section 511 read with
section 376 (2) (I) of IPC.

32. | have considered the applicability of section 3 & 4 of the Probation of
Offenders Act in this case. Taking into consideration the nature of the offence, the
manner of commission and the physical and mental condition of the victim makes

it clear that it is not a fit case to give benefit under the said provision of law.

33. Heard the accused on the point of sentence. His statement is recorded

in a separate sheet. | have also heard the Id. advocates of both sides.

34. The Hon’ble Supreme Court on the point of sentencing in a rape
case observed as follows in ShyamNarain-vs-State(NCT of Delhi) reported
in (2013)7 SCC 77:

“18. In State of Andhra Pradesh v. BodemSundra Rao[6], this Court

noticed that crimes against women are on the rise and such crimes are
affront to the human dignity of the society and, therefore, imposition of
inadequate sentence is injustice to the victim of the crime in particular and
the society in general. After so observing, the learned Judges had to say
this: -“The Courts have an obligation while awarding punishment to impose

Page 11 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

appropriate punishment so as to respond to the society’s crime for justice
against such criminals. Public abhorrence of the crime needs a reflection
through the Court’s verdict in the measure of punishment. The Courts must
not only keep in view the rights of the criminal but also the rights of the
victim of crime and the society at large while considering imposition of the
appropriate punishment.”

19. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh and others[7], this Court stated with
anguish that crime against women in general and rape in particular is on
the increase. The learned Judges proceeded further to state that it is an
irony that while we are celebrating women’s rights in all soheres, we show
little or no concern for her honour. It is a sad reflection of the attitude of
indifference of the society towards the violation of human dignity of the
victims of sex crimes. Thereafter, the Court observed the effect of rape on

a victim with anguish: -

“We must remember that a rapist not only violates the victim’s privacy and
personal integrity, but inevitably causes serious psychological as well as
physical harm in the process. Rape is not merely a physical assault - it is
often destructive of the whole personality of the victim. A murderer
destroys the physical body of his victim, a rapist degrades the very soul of

the helpless female.”

20. In State of Karnataka v. Krishnappa[8], a three-] udge Bench opined
that the courts must hear the loud cry for justice by the society in cases of
the heinous crime of rape on innocent helpless girls of tender years and
respond by imposition of proper sentence. Public abhorrence of the crime
needs reflection through imposition of appropriate sentence by the court. It
was further observed that to show mercy in the case of such a heinous
crime would be travesty of justice and the plea for leniency is wholly

misplaced.

21. In Jugendra Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh[9], while dwelling upon the

gravity of the crime of rape, this Court had expressed thus: -

“Rape or an attempt to rape is a crime not against an individual but a crime

which destroys the basic equilibrium of the social atmosphere. The

Page 12 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

consequential death is more horrendous. It is to be kept in mind that an
offence against the body of a woman lowers her dignity and mars her
reputation. It is said that one’s physical frame is his or her temple. No one
has any right of encroachment. An attempt for the momentary pleasure of
the accused has caused the death of a child and had a devastating effect
on her family and, in the ultimate eventuate, on the collective at large.
When a family suffers in such a manner, the society as a whole is
compelled to suffer as it creates an incurable dent in the fabric of the social

milieu.”

22. Keeping in view the aforesaid enunciation of law, the obtaining factual
matrix, the brutality reflected in the commission of crime, the response
expected from the courts by the society and the rampant uninhibited
exposure of the bestial nature of pervert minds, we are required to address
whether the rigorous punishment for life imposed on the appellant is
excessive or deserves to be modified. The learned counsel for the appellant
would submit that the appellant has four children and if the sentence is
maintained, not only his life but also the life of his children would be ruined.
The other ground that is urged is the background of impecuniosity. In
essence, leniency is sought on the base of aforesaid mitigating factors. It is
seemly to note that the legislature, while prescribing a minimum sentence for
a term which shall not be less than ten years, has also provided that the
sentence may be extended up to life. The legislature, in its wisdom, has left it
to the discretion of the Court. Almost for the last three decades, this Court
has been expressing its agony and distress pertaining to the increased rate of
crimes against women. The eight year old girl, who was supposed to spend
time in cheerfulness, was dealt with animal passion and her dignity and purity
of physical frame was shattered. The plight of the child and the shock
suffered by her can be well visualised. The torment on the child has the
potentiality to corrode the poise and equanimity of any civilized society. The
age old wise saying “child is a gift of the providence” enters into the realm of
absurdity. The young girl, with efflux of time, would grow with traumatic
experience, an unforgettable shame. She shall always be haunted by the
memory replete with heavy crush of disaster constantly echoing the chill air
of the past forcing her to a state of nightmarish melancholia. She may not be

able to assert the honour of a woman for no fault of hers. Respect for

Page 13 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

reputation of women in the society shows the basic civility of a civilised
society. No member of society can afford to conceive the idea that he can
create a hollow in the honour of a woman. Such thinking is not only
lamentable but also deplorable. It would not be an exaggeration to say that
the thought of sullying the physical frame of a woman is the demolition of the
accepted civilized norm, i.e., “physical morality”. In such a_ sphere,
impetuosity has no room. The youthful excitement has no place. It should be
paramount in everyone’s mind that, on one hand, the society as a whole
cannot preach from the pulpit about social, economic and political equality of
the sexes and, on the other, some pervert members of the same society
dehumanize the woman by attacking her body and ruining her chastity. It is
an assault on the individuality and inherent dignity of a woman with the
mind-set that she should be elegantly servile to men. Rape is a monstrous
burial of her dignity in the darkness. It is a crime against the holy body of a
woman and the soul of the society and such a crime is aggravated by the
manner in which it has been committed. We have emphasised on the manner
because, in the present case, the victim is an eight year old girl who possibly
would be deprived of the dreams of “Spring of Life” and might be
psychologically compelled to remain in the “Torment of Winter”. When she
suffers, the collective at large also suffers. Such a singular crime creates an
atmosphere of fear which is historically abhorred by the society. It demands
just punishment from the court and to such a demand, the courts of law are
bound to respond within legal parameters. It is a demand for justice and the
award of punishment has to be in consonance with the legislative command
and the discretion vested in the court. The mitigating factors put forth by the
learned counsel for the appellant are meant to invite mercy but we are
disposed to think that the factual matrix cannot allow the rainbow of mercy to
magistrate. Our judicial discretion impels us to maintain the sentence of

rigorous imprisonment for life and, hence, we sustain the judgment of

conviction and the order of sentence passed by the High Court.”
35. Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case, the manner of

commission of the offence and the helpless condition of the minor victim girl, | am

of the opinion that the accused does not deserve leniency.

Page 14 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

36. Accordingly the accused Dipak Das is sentenced to undergo rigorous
imprisonment (RI) for 10(ten) years for committing the offence punishable under
section 511 of Indian Penal Code read with section 376(2)(1) of IPC and also to pay
a fine of Rs. 1,000/- (one thousand) only, in default, to undergo simple

imprisonment for of one month.
BT. Seized clothes be destroyed in due course of time.

38. Considering the fact of imposing minimum amount of fine due to poor
financial back ground of the convict, no order is passed for payment of

compensation to victim U/S 357 Cr.P.C.

39. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, | am of the opinion
that it is a fit case for referring the matter to DLSA for granting
compensation/make such provisionfor the victim under section 357A Cr.P.C. for her

future life.

40. The convict is entitled for the benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C. for the period

already undergone during investigation and trial, if any.

4. Let a free of cost copy of the judgment be given to the convict

immediately as per the provisions of Section 363(1) Cr.P.C.

42. Convict is informed about his right of appeal against the judgment and
order of conviction and sentence either by appointing his own advocate or though

legal aid panel advocate or by way of J ail Appeal.

43. Send a copy of the judgment to District Magistrate, Sivasagar under
section 365 Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 21%day of
December, 2019.

Special J udge, Sivasagar.

Page 15 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses:

PW 1 - Ram Das,

PW 2 - Gagan Das,

PW 3 - Feru Das,

PW 4 - Anjali Das,

PW 5 - BobyTanti,

PW 6 - Manoj Das,

PW 7 - JoydeepBaruah,

PW 8 - Dr. SundarChangmai,

PW- 9- Ajoy Das,

PW 10- WSI(P) Marchila D. Sangma,
2. Exhibits by prosecution-

Ext.1 - statement of Ram Das,
Ext.2 - Seizure list,

Ext.3 - Statement of Anjali Das,
Ext.4 - Medical report,

Ext.5 - GD Entry register

Ext.6 - Sketch map

Ext.7 - Charge-sheet

M. Ext. 1- One sky blue jeans,

M. Ext. 2- One black belt.

3. Defence witnesses- Nil

4. Defence exhibits- Nil
Page 16 of 17
Special (P) Case No. 14/2019
Date: 21-12-2019

5. Court witnesses-
CW1- SI(P) DulumoniTalukdar.

6. Court exhibits- Nil

Special J udge,

Sivasagar.

Page 17 of 17
