 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 63 (T) of 2017
U/s 10 of POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM — haa eaccceceeeeeeeeeeeenees Complainant.
-Versus -

Sri Purna Urang

S/o- Lt. Junash Urang

R/o- Sankar T.E. No.3 Line

P.S- Doomdooma

District- Tinsukia, ASSAM oh. eeeececeeseaeeeeaeeeees Accused.

Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,
Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the State
Munna Kr. Singh,
AOVOGRIS — sanacaxsancum issn For the accused.
Date of Argument: 07/02/2019
Date of Judgment: 07/02/2019
J} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

Li It is alleged that on 28/09/2017, the accused enticed
away the 9 years old girl and tried to commit rape upon her by
removing her wearing apparels. It is also stated in the ejahar
that Smti Dipali Rajput had saved the victim girl from being
ravished by the accused.

2. During the period of investigation, the victim girl gave a
statement u/s 164 Cr.PC, wherein she has stated that the
accused had asked her to give bath to his daughter. The victim
girl further stated that the accused took her to inside the
house, where the accused had removed her pants and
inserted his penis into her vagina. She has also stated that her
grand mother had saved her.

3. During the period of investigation, the victim girl was
subjected to medical examination. The report of the Doctor
goes like this:-

"Whether oriented in time and space- Yes. Pulse -
90/min. BP - 100/70. Temperature - 98.5 F. Respiration rate -
18 per minute. No external injury seen. Labia majora, minora,
fourchette and vulva- no injury. Hymen - intact. Vagina cervix-
no injury. No spermatozoa detected. As per radiological
examination, her age was between 8 to 10 years."

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

4. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed aggravated sexual

assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as seven
witnesses, including the Police Investigating Officer and the
Doctor, who had examined the victim girl at the time of
investigation. The defence plea is total denial. | have carefully
gone through the prosecution evidences.

6. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up
the evidence of the victim girl. She has stated in her evidence
that the accused had removed her pants and also removed his
own pants. She has stated in her evidence that the accused
tried to embrace her and at that time her grand mother
arrived there and the accused went out of the room.

7. The witness Dipali Rajput is the grand mother of the
victim girl. She has stated in her evidence that at the relevant
time of occurrence, when she had gone to the house of the
accused, she had seen that the accused was pushing her
grand daughter beneath a bad and at that time, her grand
daughter did not have her pants.

8. The remaining witnesses in this case are hearsay
witnesses.
9. On scrupulous perusal of the prosecution evidences, |

find that the victim girl made two different statements before
two forums. In this court, she has stated that the accused tried
to embrace her, after removing her pants; whereas in her
statement u/s 164 Cr.PC, she has stated that the accused had
inserted his penis into her vagina. The grand mother of the
victim girl had seen that the accused was trying to push her
grand daughter beneath a bad.
10. During cross examination, the victim girl has stated
that her grand mother and the accused sometimes had
quarrels; whereas Dipali Rajput, the grand mother of the
victim girl has stated in her cross examination that she never
had any quarrel with the accused.

Li, Now, | have sufficient reasons to hold that the evidence
of Smti Dipali Rajput and the victim girl failed to inspire
confidence, as because, there are serious discrepancies
therein. Under the circumstances, | hereby hold that the
offence of aggravated sexual assault has not been proved
against the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

12. In the result, the accused Purna Urang is found not
guilty and accordingly he is acquitted from this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
7th day of February, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Dr. Ranjit Das

2. PW2 - Sri Basistha Tasa

3. PW3 - Smti Sibani Tasa

4. PW4 - Smti Dipali Rajput

5. PW5 - Sri Gautam Tassa

6. PW6 - Sri Krishna Bahadur Chetry
7. PW7 - Sri Thagish Doley, S.I.

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1- Medical report

2. Ext. 2- Radiological report with X-ray plates
3. Ext. 3- Ejahar

4. Ext. 4- Sketch map

5. Ext. 5- Charge sheet

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
