1.

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sessions (Spl.) Case No.28/2016
U/S 376 (D)/34 IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act

Present : Mr. D. K. Das
Sessions Judge, Morigaon.

State of Assam
Vs.
1) Md. Sahidul Islam

2) Md. Wakidur Rahman @ Kudu
beceeeaaees Accused Persons

Date of Charge :- 18.07.2017.
Date of recording evidence :- 27.07.2017.
Date of Argument :- 27.07.2017.
Date of Judgment :- 28.07.2017.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State:- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused:- Mr. P.R. Borah, Ld. Advocate,.
Mr. A. Zaman, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT
The prosecution case in brief is that on 08.06.2016, at around 4.30 PM,

when the informant-cum-victim went to the compound of the Moirabari Hospital,

the accused persons, namely Md. Sahidul Islam, S/o Jainal Abedin and Md.

Wakibur Rahman @ Kudu S/o Md. Samsul Hoque, both are from village Moirabari

Ward No. 5 & Ward No.6 respectively under Moirabari P.S. under Morigaon

District, by gagging her mouth took her behind the quarter of the said hospital

and committed rape upon her.

On the same day of the incident, the informant-cum-victim went to the

Moirabari PS and lodged an F.I.R. On receipt of the F.I.R., the O.C of Moirabari
PS registered a case vide Moirabari PS Case No.200/2016, U/s 376 (g) of IPC
r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

The investigation was set in motion. During the course of investigation,
the I.0. visited the place of occurrence, examined the victim as well as other
material witnesses and also got the victim medically examined and got her
statement recorded U/s 164 Cr.P.C. The accused was produced before the
Court, wherefrom, he remanded to judicial custody. Thereafter, the I.O. having
completed the investigation and having found sufficient materials against the
accused persons submitted charge-sheet against the above-named accused
persons for the offences punishable U/s 376 (g) of IPC r/w Section 4 of the
POCSO Act. At the time of submitting the charge-sheet the accused persons
were languishing in jail and they were subsequently granted Court bail.
Thereafter, the learned Court below having furnished copies of relevant
documents as mandate U/s 207 of Cr.P.C. to the accused persons and
committed the case to this Court having found it to be exclusively triable by this
Court.

On receipt of the case record, having heard Ld. Counsel of both sides and
basing upon materials on record, this Sessions court framed charge U/s 376
(D)/34 IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused persons, which
was read over and explained to the accused persons to which they pleaded

innocence and claimed to be tried.

2. Point for determination :

(i) | Whether the accused persons on the eventful day i.e. on 08.06.2016 at
around 4.30 PM at the compound of Moirabari Hospital under Moirabari
P.S. in the district of Morigaon, committed rape upon the informant cum
victim X aged about 13 years?

(ii) | Whether the accused persons on the same day, time and place

committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim, a minor girl ?

a. In this case prosecution has examined 2 (Two) PWs including the most
material witnesses of this case, the informant cum Victim as PW-1 and the

mother of the victim as PW-2. But their evidence did not support the
prosecution case on material aspects. In such circumstances, prosecution was
not willing to examine the remaining witnesses and at the instance of the
prosecution its evidence stands closed. Having found no incriminating materials
against the accused, the examination of accused as warranted U/s 313 Cr.P.C.
was dispensed with for ends of justice. The accused declined to adduce defence

evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. In this case, it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful day the
above-named accused persons committed rape upon the victim girl aged about

13 years forcefully behind the quarter of the Moirabari Hospital.

To prove this fact, the prosecution has examined PW-1, the victim girl,
who in her evidence has clearly negated the prosecution case as alleged. She
told that on the date of the occurrence of the incident, she along with others
went to the compound of the Moirabari Hospital to pick mangoes and while
picking so the accused persons scolded her for making disturbances in the
campus as it was a hospital compound and thereafter, the victim girl quarreled
with the accused person, for which, the accused persons slapped her. The victim
girl out of fear rushed to her house and informed her family members about the
incident and they decided to lodge a case against the accused persons and
accordingly, she lodged a case with the help of Mohori where she put her
Signature in the ejahar. Ext.1 is the said ejahar and Ext.1 (1) is her signature.

She further told that she do not know the contents of the ejahar.

In her cross-examination, she told that their neighbors instigated her to
lodge a case against the accused persons. She also stated that the case was
lodged out of misunderstanding and the accused persons did not commit any
immoral act with her daughter and she has no objection, if, the accused persons

are released.
PW-2, the mother of the victim, she in her evidence has stated that the
victim Miss- X is her daughter and the accused persons are known to her. She
told that on the date of the occurrence of the incident her daughter Miss X aged
about 13 years went to the compound of the Moirabari Hospital to pick mangoes
and while picking mangoes the accused persons scolded her daughter for making
disturbances in the campus. Thereafter, the victim started crying and rushed to

her mother, for which, they lodged a case against the accused persons.

In her cross-examination, she told that their neighbors instigated her to
lodge a case against the accused persons. She also stated that the case was
lodged out of misunderstanding and the accused persons did not commit any

immoral act with her daughter.

Thus, we have found that none of the witnesses including the most vital
witnesses as PW-1 and PW-2 (i.e. complainant cum victim and the mother of the
victim) examined by the prosecution have not stated anything as regards to rape

and penetrative sexual assault being allegedly committed by the accused.

6. Considering the evidence on record, we have found that the material part
of the prosecution case remained un-substantiated, as the victim and her
mother herself stated that the accused did nothing wrong to her and the case
was lodged out of misunderstanding against the accused persons and, therefore,
the accused persons may be released. So, we have found that the most material
witness of this case as PW-1 & PW-2 did not support the prosecution allegation
in its material aspects. Section 232 Cr.P.C. mandates an acquittal of the accused
from an offence, which states that “If, after taking the evidence for the
prosecution, examining the accused and hearing the prosecution and the defence
on the point, the Judge considers that there is no evidence that the accused

committed the offence, the Judge shall record an order of acquittal.”

7. In view of the above discussion and in view of Section 232 Cr.P.C., I have
found that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the accused beyond
any reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused persons are not found guilty for
the offences punishable U/s 376 (D)/34 of IPC, r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act and

as such, he is acquitted and set at liberty.
Judgment is delivered and pronounced in the open Court on this 28" day

of July, 2017 under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Special Judge.

OF IN WN SS |D

Morigaon.

APPENDIX

. Prosecution witness
. PW-1 :- Miss X

PW-2 :- Musstt. Sahida Khatun

. Defence witness : Nil.
. Prosecution Exhibit :

. Ext.1 :- the ejahar.

. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

Special Judge,
Morigaon.
Sess. (Spl) Case No.28/2016

 

28.07.2017.

Accused persons Md. Sahidul Islam and Md. Wakibur

Hussain @ Kudu are present.
Judgment is ready and pronounced in the open Court.

Considering the evidence on record, it is found that the
prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the accused
beyond any reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused is not
found guilty for the offence punishable U/s 376 (D)/34 of IPC
r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act and as such, he is acquitted
and set at liberty.

Judgment is enclosed in separate sheet.

Special Judge,
Morigaon.
