1 Special Case No.3/2015.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE : LAKHIMPUR :
AT NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

SPECI AL CASE NO.3/ 2015.

PARTIES

State of Assam. ... Complainant.
-versus-

Sri Arun Bori. ... Accused.
PRESENT

Md. Imtiaz Ali,

Special | udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

APPEARANCE
Mr. J ogeswar Gogoi, the learned Public Prosecutor, for the State.
Mr. Sanjib Gogoi, the learned Advocate for the accused.

Date of charge : 18.08.2015.
Dates of
Prosecution evidence : 06.10.2015, 07.10.2015 and 046.10.2016.
Date of statement : 16.11.2016.
Date of argument : 07.02.2017.
Date of J udgment : 20.02.2017.
JUDGMENT
I: Accused, Sri Arun Bori stands charge under Section

448/ 376/ 511 IPC RW Sec.8 of the POCSO Act for alleged commission of
house trespass by entering into the dwelling house of the informant, and

attempting to commit rape as well as sexual assault on the victim girl.

Facts of the Case
2. Prosecution allegation as disclosed from the F.I.R.
(Ext.1) lodged on 15.03.2015 by the informant before the In-charge of
Nowboicha Out Post, in brief, is that on 14.03.2015 at about 8.30 pm, her
Contd...
2 Special Case No.3/2015.

victim daughter, aged about 14 years was sleeping in her (informant) related
brother, namely Sri Kumud Taye’s house during absence of any male member
in the house, the accused, Sri Arun Bori had entered into the said house, sat
on the bed, where the victim was sleeping, woke her up and gave her an
amount of Rs.100/- only to her and attempted to fulfill his lust, and when the

victim raised alarm, the accused threatened her with dire consequence.

Investigation
3. On receipt of the F.I.R. the In-charge of Nowboicha

Police Out Post made GD entry No.220 dtd.15.03.2015 and forwarded the
same to the Officer-in-charge of North Lakhimpur Police Station for
registration of a case, and on receipt of the said F.I.R., the Officer-in-charge
of North Lakhimpur PS registered a case bearing North Lakhimpur PS Case
No.261/2015 u/s 448/376/511 IPC RW Sec.8 of the POCSO Act, 2012. During
the course of investigation, the |.0. visited the place of occurrence, prepared
the sketch map of the place of occurrence, arrested the accused, recorded
the statement of the witnesses, and got the victim girl medically examined,
and after completing the investigation, finally submitted charge sheet against
accused, Sri Arun Bori u/s 448/ 376/ 511 IPC RW Sec.8 of the POCSO Act,
2012.

4, Subsequently, the case was committed to the court of
the Special Judge by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Lakhimpur, North
Lakhimpur, vide Order dtd.24.04.2015, as the offence u/s 8 of the POCSO Act
is exclusively triable by the court of Special Judge, and accordingly, on
appearance of the accused, charges u/s 448/ 376/ 511 IPC RW Sec.8 of the
POCSO Act, 2012 had been framed against him. The charge was read over
and explained to the accused, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to
be tried.

5. The accused in his statement recorded u/s 313 CrPC
denied to have committed any crime.
6. | have heard Mr. J. Gogoi, the learned Public Prosecutor
and Mr. Sanjib Gogoi, the learned counsel appearing for the accused.

Contd...
3 Special Case No.3/2015.

7. Now, the points for determination in this case are -

Whether the accused, Sri Arun Bori on 14.03.2015 at about 8.30 pm at village
Pahumara Mirigaon under North Lakhimpur PS, had committed house
trespass into the house of the informant in order to commit rape upon the
victim girl, aged about 14 years? AND - Whether the said accused had
attempted to commit rape upon the said victim after waking her up from the
bed, who was alone sleeping in the said house and forcibly gave her an
amount of Rs.100/- to allow him to fulfill his lust? AND - Whether the

accused had committed sexual assault on the said victim girl, as alleged?

DISCUSSION, DECISION & REASONS THEREOF

8. To bring home the charge levelled against the accused,

 

prosecution has examined as many as 6 (six) witnesses, namely PW.1, the
mother of the victim girl, PW.2, the victim girl, PW.3, Smti Tulika Taye, PW.4,
Dr. Moromi Kalita, PW.5, Smti Bhabani Pawe and PW.6, Sri Hiranya Patar, the
Investigating Officer of the case.
9. Now, let me consider the evidence of PW.1, who is the
mother of the victim girl of the case. She deposed that the occurrence took
place in the month March, 2015, and at the time of occurrence, she was in
her house, and the victim girl went to her maternal uncle’s house along with
her cousin sister at about 4 pm. She also deposed that the accused gave a
sum of Rs.100/- to the victim girl with intent to do bad act with her, but the
victim refused to accept the same and came to her house and informed her
(PW.1) about the occurrence, and on the next day of the occurrence, she
lodged an ejahar (Ext.1) at Nowboicha OP. She also deposed that police
came and took the victim girl to North Lakhimpur Civil Hospital and produced
her before the court for recording her statement.
10. During cross examination, PW.1 stated that at the time
of occurrence, Tulika was also present in the house of maternal uncle of the
victim. She denied that the accused gave a sum of Rs.100/- to the victim to
buy something when she goes to school as the victim happens to be his
niece.
11. PW.2 is the victim girl, who deposed that the
occurrence took place on 14.03.2015 at about 8.30 pm. She went to her
Contd...
4 Special Case No.3/2015.

maternal uncle’s house along with Tulika as her maternal uncle and aunt
were not at home on that day, and when she woke up from sleep, the
accused gave her a sum of Rs.100/- and then, she being afraid rushed to her
house and informed the matter to her mother. She also deposed that she did
not know the reason as to why the accused had offered her the money, but
she did not accept the money. She also deposed that thereafter, her mother

lodged the case against the accused.

12. During cross examination, PW.2 stated that at the time
of occurrence, she was present in her maternal uncle’s house along with her

cousin sister.

13. PW.3, Smti Tulika Taye deposed that on the day of
occurrence, as her mother was not present in the house, so the victim went
to their house to stay with her, and at the time of occurrence, she was
sleeping with the victim girl and her younger sister. She also deposed that
the victim girl suddenly woke up from sleep and rushed to her house by

crying, and she did not tell her what had happened to her.

14. PW.4, Dr. Moromi Kalita, the M.O of the case, deposed
that on 15.03.2015, she had examined the victim girl and found as follows :
Identification mark : one cut mark over right knee.

Height : 3 ft. Weight : 35 kg.

Teeth : 28 nos.

Breast : developing stage.

Axilary and pubic hair : scanty.

Vulva and Vagina : no injury. Hymen - present. Uterus - normal size.

On laboratory examination, no spermatozoa seen. On ossification test, age of

the victim was found to be more than 15 years and below 17 years.

15. The M.O. had opined that the age of the victim girl was
above 15 years and below 17 years, and there was no apparent injury mark
over her private parts or over anywhere on the body, and no recent sign of
sexual intercourse.

Contd...
5 Special Case No.3/2015.
16. PW.5, Smti Bhabani Pawe deposed that on the day of

occurrence, the victim girl was taken by her cousin sister, Tulika to their
house as Tulika’s parents were away from the house, and at the time of
occurrence, the accused was watching TV. She also deposed that the accused
got up on the bed of the victim while Tulika was going to bring her
grandmother and the accused gave a sum of Rs.100/- to the victim girl and
asked her not to disclose the matter to any other, and then the victim due of

fear rushed to her house by crying and informed the matter to them.

17. PW.6, Sri Hiranya Patar, the 1.0 of the case, deposed
that on 15.03.2015 the ejahar was lodged by the informant and accordingly,
he made GDE and forwarded the ejahar to the O.C of North Lakhimpur PS for
registering a case and he took up the investigation of the case, and during
investigation, he had visited the place of occurrence, prepared sketch map of
the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the witnesses, caused
medical examination of the victim girl, got her statement recorded u/s 164
CrPC. He also deposed that on completion of the investigation, he had
submitted the charge sheet against the accused u/s 448/376/511 IPC RW
Sec.8 of the POCSO Act.

18. Considering the evidence as above on record, it is seen
that the informant (PW.1), who is the mother of the victim girl (PW.2) has
deposed that on the day of occurrence, the victim went to the house of her
maternal uncle with her cousin sister, Tulika at about 4 pm, and the accused
gave a sum of Rs.100/- to her victim daughter with intent to do bad act with
her, but her victim daughter refused to accept the same and returned to her
house and informed the matter to her (PW.1), and on the next day, she
lodged an ejahar against the accused. The victim (PW.2) stated that she
along with her cousin sister, Tulika Taye went to the house of said Tulika as
Tulika’s parents were away from the house, and when she woke up from
sleep, the accused gave her a sum of Rs.100/- and then she being afraid
rushed to her house and informed the matter to her mother (PW.1). So, from
the evidence of the informant and the victim girl, it appears that the accused
simply gave a sum of Rs.100/- to the victim girl. The victim girl (PW.2) did
Contd...
6 Special Case No.3/2015.

not know as to why the accused gave her the money, so she refused to
accept the same. PW.3, Smti Tulika Taye is the cousin sister of the victim
with whom, the victim girl went to said Tulika’s house. According to PW.3, at
the time of occurrence, she was sleeping with the victim girl and her younger
sister, Popi, and at that time, the victim girl suddenly woke up from sleep and
rushed to her house by crying without telling her as to what had happened to
her. PW.4 is the Medical Officer, who had examined the victim girl after the
occurrence. According to the M.O., she had not found any injury mark on the
private parts of the victim and the hymen of the victim was found intact. The
M.O opined that the age of the victim was above 15 years and below 17
years and no sign of any sexual intercourse. PW.5 stated that on the day of
occurrence, the victim girl was taken by her cousin sister, Tulika to their
house as Tulika’s parents were away from the house, and at the time of
occurrence, the accused was watching TV. She also deposed that the accused
got up on the bed of the victim while Tulika was going to bring her
grandmother and the accused gave a sum of Rs.100/- to the victim girl and
asked her not to disclose the matter to any other, and then the victim due of
fear rushed to her house by crying and informed the matter to them. So, the
informant (PW.1), victim girl (PW.2) and her companion (PW.3) have not
supported the allegation made in the ejahar (Ext.1). PW.6 is the formal
witness being the |.O of the case, who had conducted investigation and on
completion of investigation, he had submitted the charge sheet against the
accused. It appears that the victim herself did not state anything regarding
any sexual act done by the accused on her as she simply stated that when
she woke up from sleep, the accused gave her a sum of Rs.100/- and on
being afraid, she rushed to her house and informed the matter to her mother.
The victim girl did not utter a single word of sexual assault made to her by

the accused during her testimony before the court.

19. In that view of the matter, it is seen that it does not
appear in details of the alleged incident which was given in the ejahar lodged
by the informant, PW.1, who is the mother of the victim. It says that on
14.03.2015 at about 8.30 pm, her victim daughter, aged about 14 years was
sleeping in her (informant) related brother, namely Sri Kumud Taye’s house
Contd...
7 Special Case No.3/2015.

during absence of any male member in the house, the accused, Sri Arun Bori
had entered into the said house, sat on the bed, where the victim was
sleeping, woke her up and gave her an amount of Rs.100/- only to her and
attempted to fulfill his lust, and when the victim raised alarm, the accused
threatened her with dire consequence. However, during deposition before the
court, the informant and the victim girl had given a different version as
pointed by her in the ejahar (Ext.1). So far as the offence u/s 448/376/ 511
IPC and Sec.8 of the POCSO Act are concerned, it may be mentioned that in
view of the averment made in the ejahar, Ext.1, it cannot be said that the
essential ingredients of those sections are made out. The only allegation was
that the accused had attempted to fulfill his lust when the victim was sleeping
on the bed, but there is no explanation as to how and in what manner, the
victim was sexually assaulted. Rather, the victim girl stated that when she
woke up from sleep, the accused offered her a sum of Rs.100/-, which she
did not accept and on being afraid, she rushed to her house and informed the
matter to her mother (PW.1). Under Sec.8 of the POCSO Act, it must be
shown that the accused with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or
breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast
of such person or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent
which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual
assault. There is no such averment either in the ejahar or in the evidence

adduced by the witnesses, particularly the victim.

20. That being so, this court is of the view that the
prosecution has failed to bring home the charge levelled against accused, Sri
Arun Bori beyond all reasonable doubt. Accordingly, | find the accused not
guilty under the charged sections of law, and thus, | acquit him and set him
at liberty forthwith if not required in any other case.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in open court

under seal of this Court with my signature on this 20" February, 2017.

(1. Ali )
Special J udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Contd...
8 Special Case No.3/2015.

Dictated & corrected by me -

(1. Ali)
Special | udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by-
Sri Satyabrata Kshattry, Stenographer.

APPENDIX
1) PROSECUTION WITNESSES :
PW.1 - Smti Anjali Minz.
PW.2 - Sri Raju Minz.
PW.3 - The victim girl.
PW.4 - Smti Mangri Kharia.
PW.5 - Sri Makhan Munda.
PW.6 - Dr. (Mrs.) Bharati Gogoi.
PW.7 - Dr. Hridayananda Baruah.
PW.8 - Sri Imlus Minz.
PW.9 - Sri Tankeswar Gogoi, the Investigating Officer of the case.

2) List of Exhibits :
Ext.1 - FI.R.
Ext.2 - Statement of the victim.
Ext.3 - Report.
Ext.4 - X-Ray Report.
Ext.5 - Report.
Ext.6 - Charge sheet.
Ext.7 - Sketch map.
(1. Ali)
Special J udge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
