IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sessions (Spl.) Case No.10/2016
U/S 341/376/506 IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act.

[Committed by Ld. SDJM (S), Morigaon
in G.R. Case No.2735/13]

Present : Mr. Dhrupad Kashyap Das,
Sessions Judge,
Morigaon.

State of Assam

Vs

Md. Mainul Hoque hee Accused.
Date of Charge :- 13.05.2016.
Date of recording evidence :- 18.04.2017 & 18.04.2018.
Date of Argument :- 18.04.2018.
Date of Judgment :- 19.04.2018.
Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State :- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused :- Mr. A. Anmed, Ld. Advocate.
Mr. D. Ahmed, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

Prosecution case in brief is that on the eventful night i.e. on
19.12.2013 at night, there was a religious function organized at Borkurani
Maszid. The victim girl i.e. the minor daughter of the informant of village
Khatarbori under Mayong P.S. went to attend the said function. After attending
the said meeting, while the minor daughter of the informant along with her
friend were returning back to their house, the accused Md. Mainul Haque along
with another wrongfully restrained them and under threat took them to nearby
paddy field and subjected them to sexual assault by tying their mouth and
eyes. It is further alleged in the complaint that the accused person also
threatened them to kill, if they disclosed about the incident to someone else.

Therefore, the informant filed a complaint petition before the learned Chief
Judicial Magistrate, Morigaon, which was forwarded to O/C Mayong P.S. to
register and investigate the case. Accordingly, the O/C Mayong P.S. after
receipt of the complaint petition, registered a case vide Mayong P.S. Case
No.117/13, U/s 341/376/506/34 IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act against the

above-named accused person.

Investigation was set in motion. During the course of investigation the
I.0., visited the place of occurrence and examined the witnesses. Thereafter,
the I.0. brought the victim girl to the Court for recording her statement U/s
164 of Cr.P.C. The I.0. took the victim girl to Morigaon Civil Hospital for
medical examination. During the course of investigation, the I.0. failed to
arrest the accused person. So, after collection of medical report of the victim
girl and upon completion of investigation and finding sufficient incriminating
materials, the 1.0. submitted charge-sheet with allegation of offences
punishable U/s 341/376/506 IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act against accused
Md. Mainul Hoque, showing him as absconder. Thereafter, the accused Md.
Mainul Hoque surrendered before the learned trial Court, wherefrom he was
remanded to judicial custody. On production of the accused person before the
Ld. trial Court, the copies of relevant documents as mandate U/s 207 Cr.P.C.
was furnished to him. Thereafter, the Ld. Court below committed the case to
this Court finding it to be exclusively triable by this Court. On receipt of the
case record and on production of the accused person and after having heard
Ld. Counsel of both sides and basing upon materials on record my learned
Predecessor framed charge U/s 341/376/506 of IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO
Act against the accused person, which was read over and explained to the
accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

Subsequently, the accused person was enlarged on Court bail.

2. Point for determination :

(i) Whether the accused person on the eventful day i.e. on
19.12.2013 at around 7.00 P.M. at village Borkurani under Mayong
P.S. in the district of Morigaon wrongfully restrained the minor

daughter of the informant ?
(ii) Whether the accused person on the same day, time and place
committed rape on the minor daughter of the informant ?

(iii) Whether the accused person on the same day, time and place
committed criminal intimidation by threatening the minor daughter of
the informant with injury to her person and property with intent to
cause alarm to the victim girl or to cause her to do an act which she
is legally bound to do ?

(iv) Whether the accused person on the same day, time and place
committed penetrative sexual assault upon the minor daughter of the

informant ?

Be In this case prosecution has examined only 4 (four) PWs including
the most vital witness of this case i.e. the victim as PW-4 and the informant
Md. Abdul Rafique as PW-3. But their evidence did not support the prosecution
case from any angle. Therefore, the Ld. P.P. has prayed for closing down of
further prosecution evidence and, accordingly prosecution evidence was closed.
In the event of examination of the accused as warranted U/s 313 Cr.P.C. found
to be redundant; the same was dispensed with for ends of justice. The accused

declined to adduce defence evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. In this case the prosecution has alleged that on the eventful night the
above-named accused person wrongfully restrained the victim girl on a village
road, while she was returning from a religious meeting and took her to a paddy

field and subjected her to sexual assault.

(a) PW-1 (Musstt. Rusema Khatun) stated in her evidence that she knows
the informant and the victim girl. According to her, the alleged incident took
place about one year ago. PW-1 further stated that on the date of the

occurrence of the incident, the daughter of the informant and her sister went to
attend a religious meeting at night and they also came back to their house on

the same night. She does not know anything about the incident.

(b) PW-2 (Md. Abdul Kuddus) stated in his evidence that he knows the
informant and the victim girl. The accused person is also known to him. PW-2
stated that he does not know as to why the informant lodged the case against
the accused person. PW-2 further stated that victim Marjina is his daughter and
she was called to attend a village meeting, where she stated that the accused
person did not commit any illegal act with her.

During cross-examination, PW-2 stated that Abdul Hakim was also
present in the village meeting. PW-2 further stated that subsequently, village
people arranged the marriage of the daughter of the informant with the accused
person and she accordingly got married with the accused person. However,
after about one month, she (the daughter of the informant) eloped with another

person.

(c) PW-3 (Abdul Rafique), the informant stated in his evidence that victim
girl is his daughter. According to him, the alleged incident took place about 4/5
years ago. PW-3 stated that about five years ago, one day, his daughter went to
attend a religious meeting, which was held at night. The accused person was
also present in that meeting, who offered his daughter betel-nut and chocolate.
Later on, when his daughter came back to his house, she told him that the
accused person offered her betel-nut and chocolate. Therefore, he lodged the
instant case against the accused person. PW-3 further stated that he lodged the
complaint before the Court and he put thumb impression in the complaint
petition. He does not know the contents of the complaint petition, which was
written by somebody else.

During cross-examination, PW-3 stated that he lodged the case against
the accused person since he offered his daughter chocolate and betel-nut in the
meeting. PW-3 stated that the accused person did not commit any illegal act
with his daughter. At present, his daughter got married with somebody else. He
does not know what was written in the complaint petition. PW-3 stated that the
accused person never outrage the modesty of his daughter. He lodged the case

out of misunderstanding.
(d) PW-4 (the victim girl) stated in her evidence that the complaint was
lodged by her father. She knows the accused person, who is their locality.
According to PW-4 the occurrence of the incident took place about 4/5 years
ago, when she was around 14/15 years old. PW-4 stated that on the eventful
day, she went to attend a religious meeting at their village and in that meeting
the accused person was also present since he is their locality and he offered her
betel-nut and chocolate. However, she refused to take the chocolate and the
betel-nut. PW-4 stated that when she informed the matter to her father, then
her father after knowing about the fact got anguish and lodged the ejahar. PW-
4 stated that he knows the accused person prior to this incident. Police
examined her and recorded her statement.

During cross-examination, PW-4 stated that the accused person did not
utter any obscene word. He only offered chocolate and betel-nut to her. Her
father lodged the case out of misunderstanding. According to PW-4, the accused

person is innocent.

Thus, we have found that none of these four prosecution witnesses
including the victim did not utter a single word as regards rape, wrongful
restrain and penetrative sexual assaults being allegedly committed by the

accused person.

6. Considering the evidence on record, we have found that the material
part of the prosecution case remained un-substantiated, as the victim herself
stated that “the accused person did not utter any obscene word. He only offered
chocolate and betel nut to her. Her father lodged the case out of
misunderstanding and the accused person is innocent.” So, we have found that
the most material witness of this case as PW-4 did not support the prosecution
allegation in its material aspects. Section 232 Cr.P.C. mandates an acquittal of
the accused from an offence, which states that “If, after taking the evidence for
the prosecution, examining the accused and hearing the prosecution and the
defence on the point, the Judge considers that there is no evidence that the

|.”
.

accused committed the offence, the Judge shall record an order of acquitta
A. In view of the above discussion and in view of Section 232 Cr.P.C., I
have found that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the accused
beyond any reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused is not found guilty for
the offences punishable U/s 341/376/506 of IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act
and as such, he is acquitted and set at liberty. In this case, since the victim girl
has completely negated the prosecution case, therefore, she is not entitled to
receive any compensation under section 357 A Cr.P.C.

Judgment is delivered and pronounced in the open Court on this 19"

day of April, 2018 under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Sessions Judge,
Morigaon.

APPENDIX

. Prosecution witness :-
. PW-1 :- Musstt. Rusema Khatun,
. PW-2 :- Md. Abdul Kuddus,
. PW-3 :- Md. Abdul Rafique,
. PW-4 :- Miss Purnima Khatoon,
. Defence witness : Nil.

. Prosecution Exhibit :- Nil.

0 ONO WA Wn KF [D>

. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

Sessions Judge,
Morigaon.
