IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::::: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.22/2016

State of Assam
Vs
(1) Sri Dhruba Brahma

(2) Sri Hindustan Basumatary .... Accused

Present: Sri P.K Das, AJS,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar

Ld. advocate for the State : Mr N.Roy, (P.P.)

Ld. advocate for the accused: Mr S.Pahariya

Date of recording evidence : 24.3.17, 22.5.17, 08.6.17 and

20.6.2017
Date of argument : 05.7.2017 and 13.7.2017
Date of judgment :21.7.2017

JUDGMENT

1. The story of the prosecution case is that one Smti Manjuli
Basumatary lodged an FIR against the accused Dhruba Brahma and
Hindustan Basumatary of Taranguri village alleging that the accused

persons kidnapped her daughter Bwhwiti Basumatary, Anjima Brahma
Special Case No.22/16

2

and Laxmi Narzary from Kokrajhar Town on 08.9.16. The accused
persons confined them at Gelengpung in a hotel. Accused Dhruba
Brahma raped her daughter on 08.9.16 and NGO of the name and style
Nerswn recovered the victim girls. They handed over the victim girls to
the Officer-in-charge of Kokrajhar P.S. Accordingly, a case was
registered on handing over them to the Officer-in-charge of Kokrajhar
P.S. vide case No.524/16 under sections 366A/342/34 IPC, R.W.
Section 4 POCSO Act. I.O. recorded the statement of the victims and
the statement of the victims are also recorded in the court. They are
also examined along with the accused persons. Accordingly, the case
was forwarded before this court on filing the charge sheet. Accused
persons appeared before this court and after supplying the copies as it
is ascertained and the charges are framed against the accused persons
under section 366 A/34 IPC against the accused Dhruba Brahma and
Hindustan Basumatary and also under section 4 POCSO Act against the
accused Dhruba Brahma. I read over and explained the charges to the
accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried. The prosecution side examined their witnesses and the defence
side examined none. The defence side submitted that they will not
adduce evidence. The statements of the accused are recorded and their
plea is total denial. Then I have heard argument of both sides.
2. Points for determination:

(1) Whether the accused Dhruba Brahma and Hindustan

Basumatary kidnapped Bwhwiti Basumatary, Anjima

Brahma and Laxmi Narzary on 08.9.16 from Kokrajhar

town ?
Special Case No.22/16

3

(2) Whether the accused Dhruba Brahma committed rape

on minor Bwhwiti Basumatary on 08.9.16 ?

3. Prosecution side examined PW1 Smti Mamuni Narzary,
PW2 Miss Laxmi Narzary, PW3 Smti Manjuli Basumatary, PW4 Miss
Bwhwiti Basumatary, PWS Smti Purnima @ Sanima Brahma, PW6
Miss Anjima Brahma, PW7 Dr Manisha Boro Phukan, PW8 Sri
Kanthaigiri Daimary and PW9 SI Jitendra Singh. The other side
examined none.

4. Decision and reasons for decision:

I will discuss the points for decision in the light of
evidence of the prosecution side. From the FIR I find Smti Manjuli
Basumatary lodged an FIR with Kokrajhar P.S. against the accused
persons. Accused Dhruba Brahma raped her daughter Bwhwiti a minor
girl. Accordingly, a case was registered against the accused persons. In
this case Mamuni Narzary PW1 Mamuni Narzary said in her
deposition I find on the date of the commission of the offences she was
at Dhubri. She came to know about the incident on telephonic
conversion. She came home. She learnt about the incident that her
daughter was caught at a hotel. Her daughter also said she went to
Bhutan with her friends. NGO member took custody of her daughter
and her friends. PW1 only mentioned about taking the custody of her
daughter and her friends from Bhutan.

5. PW2 Miss Laxmi Narzary also said in her deposition that

she along with her friends visited Bhutan along with accused Dhruba
Special Case No.22/16

4

Brahma and no incident occurred. This shows that NGO member
caught them on suspicion.

6. PW3 Smti Manjuli Basumatary also said that Bwhwiti,
Laxmi and one girl went to Bhutan with accused Dhruba. She met her
daughter at police station. She lodged an FIR. She lodged an FIR as
per advice of NGO. The FIR was not read over and explained to her by
the FIR writer that means she does know about the incident. She put
her RTT on the FIR and her daughter does not say about penetrative
sexual assault on her and her friends. Anjima and Laxmi were with her
daughter in Bhutan. This shows that Bwhwiti was not raped by any
accused. In her evidence there is nothing and her daughter also does
not say to her that anybody had involved like sexual assault on her.
This indicates that there is nothing on raping Bwhwiti by accused
Dhruba. In this regard there is nothing about the accused Hindustan
Basumatary to involve him also.

7. PW4 Bwhwiti Basumatary also corroborates evidence of
her mother and said she slept at night in another room with her friends.
Dhruba and Hindustan slept in another room. However, the waiter of
the hotel demanded money from Dhruba. This indicates that no
incident took place. Practically Dhruba and Hindustan did not rape her.
They are innocent persons. So from evidence of PW4 victim Bwhwiti
also said nothing against the accused persons on raping her by accused
Dhruba and on the point of kidnapping also there is nothing that the

accused kidnapped her and they took them to Bhutan.
Special Case No.22/16

5

8. PW4 Smti Purnima @ Sanima Brahma further said
Anjima is her daughter. Laxmi and Bwhwiti went to her residence and
her daughter accompanied by them and police arrested them and took
their custody and her daughter went to Bhutan with the accused. From
their evidence there is nothing actually the accused kidnapped the
victim and also raped by anybody including Bwhwiti. So evidence of
PW1 Mamuni Narzary to PWS Purnima Brahma where from I have
found nothing on the point of raping and penetrative sexual assault on
Bwhwiti by the accused Dhruba.

9. PW6 Miss Anjima Brahma also said that Laxmi and
Bwhwiti went to her house and they left for Bhutan. She does not know
before going to Bhutan with Dhruba and Hindustan that they would
accompany them. They had been all in hotel in different room. She
could not say what happened with Bwhwiti on that particular day.
Police took them to the custody. She also gave statement. Ext.1 is her
statement and Ext.1(1) and Ext.1(2) are her signatures. Therefore, I
find that she said nothing to the Magistrate at the time of recording her
statement on the offences as alleged. Police took them to the custody
on suspicion. From evidence of PW6 there is nothing on the point of
commission of offence under section 4 POCSO Act by the accused
Dhruba over Bwhwiti.

10. PW7 Dr Manisha Boro Phukan also said that she
examined Bwhwiti Basumatary and on examination she found absent

of hymen indicates sexual exposer but accused involved with sexual
Special Case No.22/16

6

sexual activity on that point is not there on her medical report. She
could not say there was sexual exposer upon the victim Bwhwiti with
the accused.

11. PW8 Sri Kanthaigiri Daimary also said that he took the
charge of so-called victims and the accused persons. On that day from
Bhutan he received three females and two males. From his evidence
there is nothing.

12. PW9 ASI Jitendra Singh also deposed that he investigated
the case. He filed the charge sheet. Ext.2 is the charge sheet and
Ext.2(1) is his signature. He recorded the statements of the victims. He
did not visit Bhutan for the purpose of investigation to ascertain the
fact actually what happened. He did not examine D.C. of Bhutan.

13. Anjima (PW6) in her statement vide Ext.1 she said he left
for Bhutan with accused Dhruba for site seeing. She said about the
alleged incident of raping of her friend Bwahwiti. However, she said
before me that she could not say actually what happened. She totally
deviated from the statement given to the Magistrate vide Ext.1 and she
said otherwisely before the court. As a result of that I find discrepancy
in her evidence. She said different thing before me. Therefore, she
does not know about the incident it establishes. So she can not say
anything as nothing happened. Evidentially value of her evidence it
has almost impeached for contradictory version. I cannot believe her.
It is found and at the same there is no corroboration of evidence of

Bwhwiti and Laxmi also on raping by Dhruba and Hindustan the
Special Case No.22/16

7

accused. Three friends who stayed in the hotel at the relevant time.
The other guardians did not say involving the accused Dhruba and
Hindustan. I find there is nothing that the accused Dhruba and
Hindustan raped on Bwhwiti and the medical evidence does not
support so. No spermatozoa is seen in the smear supplied. This
indicates that there is nothing in evidence of penetrative sexual assault
as alleged against the accused. Considering the entire evidence I find
on the point of kidnapping to the victims that point also has not been
established. As there is no element of using force in the evidence of the
so called victim. At the same time penetrative sexual assault by
accused Dhruba is also not proved.

14. I have heard learned P.P. and learned defence counsel.

15. Considering their submissions I come to the conclusion on
the basis of evidence on record that PW1Mamuni Narzary to PW9 ASI
Jitendra Singh. I do not find any reason actually to hold the accused
had committed offences as alleged under section 366A IPC, R.W.
Section 4 POCSO Act against the accused. Under the circumstances I
hold that the prosecution side has failed to prove the case against the
accused Dhruba Brahma and Hindustan Basumatary the offence under
section 366A IPC and also under section 4 POCSO Act against the
accused Dhubra Brahma.

ORDER
16. Considering the foregoing discussion of evidence on

record and after hearing both sides, I hold that the prosecution side
Special Case No.22/16

8
has failed to prove the case against the accused persons. So I acquit
the accused Dhruba Brahma and Hindustan Basumatary under
section 366A IPC and also Sri Dhruba Brahma from the charge under
section 4 POCSO Act. I cancel the bail bonds of the accused persons.
I set them at liberty forthwith.
Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 21st day

of July/2017.

Directed & Corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar

Appendix
The prosecution witnesses are:
1) Smti Mamuni Narzary .... PW1

2) Smti Laxmi Narzary_.....PW2
3) Smti Manjuli Basumatary ..PW3
4) Smti Bwhwiti Basumatary..PW4
5) Smti Purnima Brahma ...PWS5
6) Smti Anjima Brahma __...PW6

7) Dr M.Boro Phukan ...PW7
8) Sri Kanthaigiri Daimary ...PW8
9) ASI Jitendra Singh ....PW9

The Court Witness: Nil

The exhibited documents:
1) Ext.d o.. Medical report
2) Ext.2 ...... Charge sheet
The Defence witness and exhibit : Nil.
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
