-1-

IN THE COURT OF DISTRICT & SESSIONS JUDGE: CACHAR; SILCHAR
SPL. POCSO CASE NO _.11 of 2017
(U/S 366 IPC & U/s 4 of POCSO Act.)
Present:-Shri K. Choudhury, LL.M.,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM ........cccceecceecccesceeseteeeeeeeseseesseneeeeeeeeeeeesees Complainant.
-Versus-

Tajib Chakraborty.

S/O- Tapash Chakraborty.

Dharmanagar. (North Tripura)...........c::ccccccccseeessessssseeees Accused person.

Charge framed ON t~........cccceccseeesessseceeeeeeeeessssssseseeeeeeeseteees 11.05.2013.

P.Ws. ExaMminedon: - .......ccceceeeeeeees 11-09-17 & 23-10-17.

Statement of accused recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C:- 24-10-2017.

Argument heard On: ~...........ccccsscccccceceeteeseaeesseeeeeeeeeeeeseesenees 24-10-2017.

Judgment pronounced and delivered On: ..........:sceeeeeeeeeees 24-10-2017.

Learned Counsel Appeared

For the State: -......cccccssccsssssseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeaaas Mr. R.N. Das, Ld. PP.

For the ACCUSEC:! ~.......cccccccccccceceeeeeeeueesaueeeeeneees Mr. N.R. Das. Advocate.
JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case as it evolves from the record is thaton 06-

03-2013 at about 2-30 P.M. the victim minor daughter of the
complainant has been found missing. Accordingly Police of Srikona P.P.
was informed on 10-03-13. Subsequently on 15-03-13 the complainant
came to know from secret source that the accused kidnapped his minor
daughter. FIR was lodged against two other persons. On 17-03-2013
the In-charge Srikona P.P. entered the same vide G.D. entry No. 257
-2-

dated 17-03-13 and forwarded the same to O/C Silchar PS. where it
was registered as Silchar P.S. case No. 514/13, U/S 366(A)/34 IPC.
During investigation the victim was recovered and was medically
examined and she also gave statement U/S 164 CrP.C. On completion
of the investigation the I.O0. submitted charge sheet against the
accused U/S 366(A) R.W. Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

2 Learned Addl.C.J.M. Cachar, Silchar after procuring the
attendance of the accused furnished copies of all relevant documents
and committed the offence.This Court after hearing both sides, and
considering of the materials on record framed formal charges against
the accused U/S 366 IPC & under Sec.4 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences (POCSO)Act 2012. The charges were read over and
explained to the accused to which the accused pleaded not guilty.

Hence trial began.

3. To prove the case prosecution examined three witnesses
including the victim.Defence plea is that at the material time the victim
was major and having love affairs with the accused voluntarily went
with him. The accused during examination U/s 313 Cr.P.C. also has

taken the similar plea and pleaded as innocent.

4. Now, point for decision is as to whether,under the facts and
circumstances of the case, the accused kidnapped the victim girl and
committed any offence of penetrative sexual assault as charged U/S
366 IPC and Sec 4 of POCSO Act.

5. To decide the above I have heard learned counsel of both

sides at length and perused the entire evidence on the record. Findings,
oh.

decision and reasons thereof are given below:

6. P.W.1 is the complainant as well as father of the victim
deposed that on 16-03-13 at about 2-30 p.m. the victim went out to
fetch book from the house of her private tutor but she did not return.
The complainant made search but could not trace her out. On 10-03-13
he lodged missing entry to the Srikona Police out post. During further
search it could be learnt that the victim was taken away by the accused
to Dharmanagar, Tripura. Then he lodged FIR against the accused on
15-03-13. He further deposed that after two months of the alleged
incident he along with police recovered the victim from the house of
brother-in-law of the accused from Manu, Tripura. The accused was
brought to Silchar. He also deposed that in the month of April he gave
marriage to the victim with other person and she is now living with her
husband at Bazarghat under Karimganj district.

In the cross-examination he stated that he cannot say the
actual age of the victim. He did not see the alleged taking away of the
victim. After the recovery it was reported by the victim that she having
love affairs with the accused voluntarily went with him. It is also stated
that he (P.W.1) was against the relationship of the accused with the
victim mainly on the ground that accused was not healthy and having
eye sight problem and also other deceases like T.B. and also for that
accused belonged to Brahmin. It is also stated that having some
misconception he lodged the FIR and stated the age of the victim on

presumption.

7. P.W. 2 — the mother of the victim, deposed that on 06-03-13

while her victim daughter was a student of Class IX one day at about 2-
-4-

30 p.m. went out to bring book from her private tutor but did not
return. Search was made but could not be traced out. On 10-03-13 her
husband lodged missing entry. During further search it could be learnt
that the victim was taken to Tripura by the accused. After that her
husband lodged FIR. She also deposed that after about two months of
the alleged incident police recovered the victim from Tripura. She
further deposed that in this year in the month of April they gave
marriage of the victim with other. She is now living with her husband at
Bazarghat under Karimganj District.

In her cross-examination she deposed that at the relevant
time the victim was above 18 years. Out of misconception previously
she gave statement against the accused stating that the accused
forcibly took away the victim and stayed at Tripura for 2-3 months.

8. P.W.3 deposed that she had love affairs with the accused
and her parents are against the affairs and after that her father out of
grudge lodged the FIR against the accused who did not commit any

wrong with her. At the material time she was aged about 17-18 years.

9. From the above, it clearly appears that the victim at her
own will went away with the accused and the parents of the victim
were against the relationship. From the cross-examination of witnesses
it appears that at the material time the victim was of consenting age.
The victim and other witnesses has not adduced any evidence of any
sexual assault. The evidences as recorded are found to be self-
contradictory. That being so offences as charged are not proved. It is
therefore held that prosecution case is not proved beyond at all.
Accused is thus held to be not guilty of the offences as charged or

whatsoever. He is thus acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.
_5-

Bail bond stands discharged.
10. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court
under my signature and seal of this court on this 24th day of October
2017.

Dictated & Corrected by me

(Shri K. Choudhury), (Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge. Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Dictation taken & transcribed by me.

Pramotesh Dey. Stenographer.Gr-1
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR.

SPL POCSO Case No 11 of 2017.
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

P.W. 1-—Monmohan Das.
P.W. 2— SmtiShibani Das
P.W. 3 —Saptadipa Das.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: -
NIL
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.1—-— FLR.

Ext.1(1)— Signature of P.W.1

Ext. 2 — statement of P.W.3.

Ext. 2(1)& 2(2) — Signature of PW-3

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - —NIL

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Transcribed by me.

PramoteshDey. (Shri K. Choudhury),
Stenographer. Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Spl. POCSO 11/17.

24-10-17:

Accused is present. He is examined U/S 1313 CrP.C.
His statement are recorded in separate sheets tagged with the
case record.

Heard argument of both sides.
Judgment written in separate sheets tagged with the case

record. It is therefore held that prosecution case is not proved
beyond at all. Accused is thus held to be not guilty of the
offences as charged or whatsoever. He is thus acquitted and
set at liberty forthwith.

Bail bond stands discharged.
Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the
open court under my signature and seal of this court on this
24th day of October 2017.

(Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
