1

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON. ASSAM

 

SPECIAL (POCSO)CASE NO. 15(N) OF 2018

PRESENT : Smti. R. Kar,
Special Judge,
Nagaon
State Of ASSAM —s_ auseaceessereees Complainant
eS 4
2s sa9®:
spac aes -Versus -
N29
Sahanur Ali @ Jahangir Alli.......00.. Accused Person

ADVOCATES WHO APPEARED IN THIS CASE

For the Complainant :Sri M.Neog,

Special Public Prosecutor.

For the accused : Smti. Mallika Sarmah,

Legal Aid Counsel.

Date of evidence of PWs : 01-08-2018, 06-10-2018,
02-11-2018, 08-03-2019.

Date ofl Argument : 04-06-2019
Date of Judgment : 20-07-2019.
2

JUDG M EN T

1. The prosecution case as unfolded from the FIR is that
on 10-01-2018, informant Newaj Ahmed lodged an FIR before the
Nagaon Police Station alleging that Md. Shahnur Ali @ Jahangir was
his tenant from 22-12-2017 and along with him a minor girl of aged
about 10/12 years also stayed with him. So far his knowledge is
concerned, Md. Shahnur Ali had two wives and at the time both the
wives has abandoned him and went with some other persons. It is
further alleged that on 02-01-2018 of Tuesday night at about 8.30
p.m., he heard the screaming of the said minor girl and as such he
went to his tenant house and could see that the father was
committing forceful rape on his daughter. He caught the accused
red-handed and on asking the girl he came to know that Shahnur
Ali, i.e., the father of victim earlier also committed forceful rape on
her. The complainant informed the matter to the District Child
Protection Officer and on 09-01-2018, based on his application Child
line, Nagaon with the help of police of Haiborgaon Out Post the girl
was rescued and simultaneously rapist father was arrested. The said
girl has shared her grievances to the Police and Child line . Hence,
the FR.

2. On basis of the said FIR the Officer-in-Charge of Nagaon
P.S. registered Nagaon P.S. Case No.75/18 u/s 4 of POCSO Act/2012
and police started usual investigation thereon. Upon completion of
the investigation police laid charge sheet U/s. 4 of POCSO Act
against accused Md. Sahanur Ali @ Jahangir Ali.

3. On being produced the accused person was furnished
with all the necessary copies as required U/S 207 of Cr.PC.
Subsequently, after hearing both sides and perusing relevant
materials formal charge u/s 10 of the POCSO Act was framed against
accused Md. Sahanur Ali @ Jahangir Ali and same was read over and
explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.
Ee (AA

3 Os

Cc ogee » pa

e

ae

Yr

aa ~
se

4. During trial of the case, prosecution side examined 7
witnesses including the Medical Officer and the Investigating Officer.
The accused person was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Defense adopted
plea of denial and examined none.

a. | have heard argument advanced by both sides.
6. Point for decision:-

i) Whether on or about 02-01-2018 at about 8.30 p.m.
the accused committed aggravated sexual assault on his 9 years old
daughter, namely, 'X' and thereby committed an offence punishable
u/s 10 of the POCSO Act ?

 

7. Discussion , decision and reasons thereof :-

Before entering into the discussion, the gist of the
prosecution evidence is laid down below:-

PW 1, Newaz Ahmed has deposed that he is the
complainant of the case. He lodged the case against accused
Shahnuz @ Jahangir. 'X' is the daughter of accused Shahnuz.
Shahnuz Ali was his tenant.

The incident took place in the month of January in night
at about 8.30 p.m. At the time of incident he was coming home from
Masjid, then he heard screaming of 'X' from the house of accused
situated behind his house and he went there and found the door
closed. He opened the door and entered inside the house and put on
the light and saw that accused/father was committing rape on his
daughter. When he asked about the incident, accused told that he
was wrong and promise not to repeat such act. PW 1 brought the girl
to his house. On the next day when he enquired about the incident,
‘X' told that earlier also in two/three occasions her father committed
— |

2 ° yo
ese te

4

rape on her. Then he communicated with the Child Line, Nagaon. On
the next day of the incident, Shahnuz became disappeared from his
house. Subsequently on 09-01-2018 Shahnuz Ali came to house and
then he informed the Child line and Police. Thereafter Child line and
police found the accused and the child in the house. Police enquired
the incident from the girl and Shahnuz was apprehended and taken
with them while the girl was taken by the Child line. Thereafter he
filed the written ejahar. Ext.1 is his ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his
signature. Subsequently he came to know that police caused the
medical examination of the said girl. Police also recorded his
statement.

PW 2, namely X deposed that she knows Newaz Ahmed.
They were tenant of his house. Shahnuz Ali is her father. The incident
took place at night in the month of January. At the time of incident
she and her father were in the house. At night she went to sleep. Her
father climbed up on her body and wanted to commit bad work.
Then the tenant uncle (owner of their rented house) came to their
house and on seeing to commit bad work, tenant uncle tried to
assault her father but she asked the tenant uncle not to assault her
father. Thereafter tenant uncle made her father understood and left
their house. At night she stayed in her own house.

After 5/6 days later from the said incident police came
there. Woman police also came and police took her father. She was
taken by the child-line officials. Subsequently police caused her
medical examination and also caused recorded her statement before
Court. Ext.2 is her statement recorded before the court and Ext.2(1),
2(2) and 2(3) are his signatures.

PW 3, Md. Ashaduz Zaman has deposed that he knows the
complainant Newaz Ahmed. After the incident he came to know
accused Shahnuz and his daughter 'X'. The incident took place in the
month of January. The incident occurred at about 8/8.30 p.m. On the
next day of the incident, the complainant called him and other two
ae 4-14

‘LL 4 ’
sudo

opet
N

»

3

members of Shanti Committee and stated that on the previous night
while he was coming home he heard bad sound in his rented house
of Jahangir and he went there and banged opened the door and put
on the light. He found the girl in nude condition and Jahangir laying
over the girl and when he wanted to beat Jahangir, the daughter of
Jahangir prevented to assault him.

After the incident was told to them they have decided to hand
over the girl to Child line. The accused hide away. After few days,
when the accused came to the house, they informed the police and
the child line. Police took away the accused while the girl was taken
by the child line. On the next day, Newaj Ahmed lodged the ejahar.
Police recorded his statement.

PW 4, Suruj Moni Saikia has deposed that he knows the
complainant Newaj Ahmed and he could recollect the victim. The
incident took place in the current month of January. One day in the
month of January Newaj Ahmed made a phone call to the toll free
number of child line. When he received the phone call, then Newaj
Ahmed told that few days back, at night, his tenant was found
sleeping over his own daughter by removing her clothes and
committed sexual assault on her. He further stated that on hearing
some sound, Newaj Ahmed went towards the room of his tenant and
by opening the door, he found the girl in nude condition and her
father was lying over her. Newaj Ahmed did not alarm on that night
and on the next he discussed the matter with the Shanti Committee
and thereafter informed them over phone about the incident.
Immediately they informed the incident to the District Child
Protection Officer and as per his direction on 09-01-2018 they went
to the house of victim and found the victim and her father. When
they asked about the incident, the victim sobbingly told the incident.
Police also went them. They took the girl with them while the police

took the father of the victim. Police recorded his statement.
29 ©

“ doe ‘
gpectd 2 AES
N2Q

6

PW 5, Md. Mainuddin Halder has deposed that the
incident took place in the month of January of the current year. On
the next day morning of the incident, Newaj Ahmed met him on road
and told that in the previous night at about 8.30 p.m. on hearing hue
and cry from his tenant house, he went there and on opening the
door he saw that the father was committing rape on his daughter.
After hearing the incident, he and his associate Asaduz Zaman asked
Newaj to inform the Child line. After about one week of the incident,
the Child line officials along with police from Haiborgaon police out
post came there. The Child line officials took the girl with them and
the police took the father of the victim. On the next day, Newaj
Ahmed lodged the ejahar. His name and address was written in the
ejahar as witness. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext.1(2) is his signature.
Police recorded his statement.

PW 6, Dr. Bhaswati Sharma has deposed that on 10-01-
2018 he was posted at Nagaon Bhugeswari Phukanani Civil Hospital
as Medical and & Health Officer-I, Nagaon and on that day, at about
3 p.m. she examined Smti. Sahnaz Begum in connection with
Nagaon Sadar P.S.Case No.75/18 u/s 4 of POCSO Act in presence of
LHV Runu Zamindar and escorted by WPC/610 Lakhyajyoti Bora and
found the followings:-

Identification Mark.

1(a) Mole on right sole.

(b) Mole on left side of face.

Height- 132 cms. Weight - 22 Kgs, Teeth - Upper/lower 12/12.
Breasts- Not fully developed, Axillary Hair - present (sparsely),
Hymen - present, Vaginal Injury- Not much (orifice is inflamed),
Marks of violence - None. Clothings -Skirt top and sweater, LMP -
Puberty not attain.

Smear examination vide Regd. No.6474/18 reported by
Pathologist Dr. J.Hussain shows no spermatozoa seen.
7

X-ray examination of the right wrist, elbow and iliac crest No.:
Not done.

1.Right wrist joints - Nil

2.Right elbow joints - Nil

3.Right iliac Crest - Nil.

Opinions:

1. There is sign of recent sexual assault in the private parts of the
child (vaginal orifice red and inflamed).

2. Age of the victim cannot be determined as X-ray was not done.

3. Mental condition of the victim seems normal.

Ext.3 is the medical report and Ext.3(1) is her signature,

PW 7, SI Siddheswar Boro has deposed that on 09-01-2018 he
was posted as In-Charge of Police at Haiborgaon TOP and on that
day, at about 7.40 p.m. a team of Child line appeared before the
outpost and requested to rescue a girl from 2 No. Mullapatty which
was sexually assaulted by her father. Accordingly GD.Entry No.206
dated 09-01-2018 was entered. Then he along with his staff
including woman ASI, Smti. Bharati Bora went to the place of
occurrence. Accordingly they rescued the girl and apprehended the
accused from the rented house of Newaj Ahmed. Thereafter the girl
was handed over to the child line. Ext.4 is the GD. Register book and
Ext.4(1), 4(2) and 4(3) are the relevant GD. Entry in respect of 205,
206 and 207. Thereafter he drew a sketch map of the place of
occurrence. Ext.5 is the sketch map and Ext.5(1) is his signature.

The FIR was filed by one Newaj Ahmed which was
received on 10-01-2018 at about 12.30 p.m. The case was registered
by the Officer-in-Charge of Nagaon P.S. and endorsed him to take up
the investigation. The victim was medically examined and her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded. The accused was brought to
the police station for interrogation on 09-01-2018 and subsequently
<a ot \\

V2 aoe
gpon® ‘ve
weor™

8

on 10-01-2018 he was arrested. Ext.6 is the arrest memo and
Ext.6(1) is his designate. He also recorded the evidence of witnesses.

The Investigating Officer has collected the medical
report of the victim. After completion of investigation, Investigating
Officer has submitted charge-sheet against accused Sahanur Ali u/s
7 of the POCSO Act. Ext.7 is the charge-sheet and Ext.7(1) is his
signature.

8. Mr. M.Neog, the learned Special Public Prosecutor
appearing for the State submitted that the evidence adduced by the
prosecution witnesses, more particularly PW 1, PW 2 and PW 6
clearly establishes the case of the prosecution. Learned Special P.P.
further argued that this is an unnatural act in civil society and as
such law should be strict against such offence. He submitted that the
victim being the minor daughter of the accused has been living with
the accused lonely as her mother run away but the accused did not
resist his carnal desire and materialized on the easy prey on the fate
full night breaking the rule of society. The act was directly seen by
the PW 1 and PW 2, the victim has admitted the fact. The other
witnesses have supported the sexual act committed by the accused
upon the victim and are the eye witnesses to its subsequence
occurrence. He further submitted that the discrepancy in the
evidence are in fact only minor inconsistencies which otherwise
cannot be the basis for rejecting the credibility of the prosecution
evidence. He thus submits that from perusal of the evidence led by
the prosecution, it can be clearly seen that the prosecution have
been able to bring home the guilt of the accused person and
considering the heinous crime having committed by him the
accused must be convicted and appropriate sentence be awarded.

9. The learned legal aid counsel Smti. Mallika Sarma on
the other hand, refuting the argument of the learned Special P.P.,
submitted that the evidence of PW 1 having not been corroborated

with PW 2 as such conviction of accused cannot be sustained. It is
9

further argued that taking the absence of the accused in the house
PW 1 tried to ill behave the victim and the accused person protested
of such act, then PW 1 lodged a false case against the accused.
She submits that the evidence of PW 2 does not lead the fact of
committing bad act on her. She further submitted that non-informing
the incident to anybody else except the wife on the eve of the
incident by PW 1 also casts doubt in the evidence of PW 1. She
further argued that the occurrence took place on 02-01-2018 while
the doctor examined the victim on 10-01-2018 and detected no
mark of violence on her. It is further argued that the doctor has
opined finding of no sign of recent sexual assault in the private parts
of the child. She further argued that there are lot of contradictions in
the evidence of PW 1, PW 2, PW 3, PW 4 and PW 5. Thus it cannot be
believed that the accused person has committed any bad act on the
victim, who is after all a father and taking all care and maintenance
to his daughter/victim. She further argued that when the eye
witness is totally inconsistent with the medical evidence there is no
reason to believe that the evidence of ocular witness. Therefore,
conviction of the accused under such circumstances is not

sustainable.

10. Now let us appreciate evidence on record.

From the evidence it can be seen that other than the
victim(PW 2), the informant (PW 1) is the vital witness as he has
claimed to have seen the incident. PW 3, PW 4 and PW 5 have
corroborated the fact of the matter of reporting the incident to them
by PW 1.

The victim(PW 2) in her evidence has stated that her
father tried to commit the ‘bad act' with her and then ‘Malik Kaka'
came and seeing this tried to assault her father but she told him not
to do so. PW 2 has corroborated the statement of PW 1 that he saw
the incident. PW 1 in his evidence has corroborated the allegations
made in the FIR. PW 7 (1.0.) in his evidence although proved
one
Nee

saQa
os gi

3 hse

10

contradictions as brought out by defence in respect of exact words
deposed by the PW 1 in his examination-in-chief but at the same
time he has stated that PW 1 stated before him that accused is
committing some bad act with the victim. Thus it can be seen that
defence has failed to prove the contradiction on materials point. Now
defence in course of cross-examination of PW 1 has given the
suggestion that he tried to molest the girl of the accused on several
occasions during his absence in the house and as the accused
knowing the matter protested as such he has filed the false case
against him. PW 1 has denied this suggestion. Similar suggestion has
been given to the victim (PW 2) and she has also denied the same.
The accused in his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. has taken the plea that
the informant wanted his daughter for domestic help and to take
care of his little son but he refused as such the informant entered
inside his room by breaking the door and by showing dao threatened
him to tell that he has done the bad act with his daughter. Thus it
can be seen that the defence has taken two different pleas in order

to show his innocence.

Defence in course of cross-examination of the victim
(PW 2) has failed to extract anything from her mouth so to establish
their plea. Evidence of the victim (PW 2) appears to be very natural
and no reason could be found why she should tell lie against her
father. | do not find any reason to disbelieve her evidence. Evidence
of PW 1 and PW 2 are corroborative and as such evidence of PW 1
(the informant) is also found trustworthy.

| have also considered the medical evidence of the
Medical Officer (P.W.6).

Defence has failed to rebut the presumption u/s 29 of
the POCSO, Act, 2012.

11. Now aggravated sexual assault has been defined u/s 9
of the Act. As per section 9(n). “whoever, being a relative of
11

the child through blood or adoption or marriage or
guardianship or in foster care, or having domestic
relationship with a parent of the child, or who is living in the
same or shared household with the child, commits sexual
assault on such child;“

In the instant case accused is the father of the victim
and as such commission of offence as defined u/s 9(n) of the Act has
been attracted. Considering the evidence and materials on record |
have arrived at the finding that prosecution has succeeded to bring
home the charge against accused Sahanur Ali which is punisable u/s
10 of the POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubt and accordingly he

+ ‘4 is convicted under the section.
ye 12. Considering the nature of offence and facts and
o

e circumstances of the case, | am not inclining to extend any benefit

either under the provision of Probation of Offender Act or u/s 360
CrPc.

13. Sentence hearing: | have heard the accused person on the
point of sentence. His statement on sentence hearing is recorded in
separate sheet and kept with the case record. Accused person has

prayed for showing leniency on sentence.

14. Sentence :- Considering all aspects, accused Sahanur Ali @
Jahangir Ali is sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for 7
(seven) years and also to pay fine of Rs.5,000/- (Rupees Five
thousand only) in default R.!. for another 3 (three) months for the
offence punishable under Section 10 of the POCSO Act.

Period of detention already undergone be set off as per

provision of Section 428 of Cr.P.C.

Issue imprisonment custody warrant accordingly.
12

Furnish copy of the judgment free of cost to the
accused person.

Send a copy of the judgment to learned District
Magistrate of Nagaon u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court, | have
signed and delivered this Judgment on this 20° day of July, 2019 at

Nagaon.
|= 20° #$ (4
( Raaga Jucc:
ce Assai.

Specia Judge,
Nagaon.
Dictated & corrected by me.

“E2 o- 4 AY
(Rekar Jude,
spueaNyaagE,”

Nagaon.

Dictation taken & transcribed by
Ni per Reft-honon
(Nipen Rajkhowa)
Stenographer.
13

ANNEXURE

 

 

 

P.W.1 - Newaz Ahmed

P.W.2 ~ Victim “x”

Md. Ashaduz Zaman
.W. - Suruj Moni Saikia
P.W.5 - Md. Mainuddin Halder
P.W.6 - Dr. Bhaswati Sharma.
P.W.7 - SI Siddheswar Boro

zl BY bn i ad Big
0 0
==
Ww
'

Prosecution Exhibits.

 

1. ExXtl 2 Ejahar.

2. Ext2 Statement u/s 164 Cr.PC.
3. Ext.3 Medical Report.

4. ExXt4 GD. Entry Book

S. Ext.4(1) Relevant GD. Entry.

6. Ext5 Sketch map.

7 EXt6 2 Arrest Memo.

8B. Ext.7 Charge-sheet.

Defence Witness.

 

Nil

Defence Exhibit

 

Nil

ee 20-714

ate

Nagaon.Assam.
