Page 1 of 17

THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of
accused..u/s 343 Cr.P.C

Date of examination of DW

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

-VS-

02 of 2015

(Under Section 10 of POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No 22 of
2015)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special judge, Sonitpur,
Tezpur

State of Assam

Sri Santa Hazarika

Son of Late Cheniram Hazarika
Resident of Bogolibari

Police Station — Sootea

Dist, :- \Sonitpur, Assam.
15/03/2016

03/05/2016, 08/08/2016,
20/08/2016, 09/11/2016,

& 28/04/2017.

26/04/2018

05/01/2018

09/07/2018 & 25/07/2018

25/07/2018.

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor, Sonitpur

Smti M. Bhagawati, Advocate
Page 2 of 17

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Santa Hazarika is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 10 of POCSO Act.
2. The various facts leading to this case according to FIR in

brief is that on or about 12 O’ clock in the day of about one month
ahead of filing of the ejahar i.e. on 04-01-2015 accused taking
advantage of absence of other family members came to the house
of the informant and attempted to commit rape by opening the
clothes of 6 years old minor daughter of the informant. While she
raised alarm accused could not able to commit*rape to her.
Thereafter, the accused was fled away from hisshouse; After some
time villagers caught the accused. Hence,. this prosecution case.
The ejahar was filed by informant Sri Pranjan Hazarika before the
O/C of Sootea PS on 04-01-2015.

oe On receipt the ejahar the O/C Sootea P.S. registered the
case, vide Sootea PS Case No. 03/15, under Section 511 of IPC read
with section 6/7 of .POCSO° Act. After completion of usual
investigation, the O/C Sootea Police station sent up the case for trial
against the accused Sri Santa (Piku) Hazarika under Section 8 of
POCSO Act.

4. On. being appeared the accused person before this Court
after hearing both parties, my learned predecessor-in-court,
framed’ charge under section 10 of POCSO Act. Particulars of the
charge are read over and explained to which he pleads not guilty
and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 6
(six) numbers of witnesses and also examined one Court Witness.
Accused pleads total denial while his statement was recorded u/s
313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and
evidence appears against the accused are put before him where he
denied the evidence and declined to give defence evidence.

6. I have also heard argument put forwarded by the learned

counsel for both parties.
Page 3 of 17

7. The point for decision in this case is that :
(i) Whether one month prior to 04-01-2015,
at about 12 noon, at Bogilibari, under Sootea
Police station, accused committed aggravated
sexual assault on victim, aged about 6 years
of age and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 10 of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision

 

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the
evidence on record.
9. PW- 1, the minor victim who was examined aster testing
her ability of understanding and rationality, stated. that she called
the accused as “bordeuta”. His house is situated on the other side
of their house. At that time she was a student of class IT standard.
Incident took place at day time. On_the said day in their house one
cow gave birth a calf. Her grandmother asked her to give some
“Phehu” to Jupitara, whos is the daughter of the accused.
Thereafter, she gave some “phehu” to the accused. In the house of
the accused, accused\(Bordeuta) opened her underwear (Panty),
fell her down in bed, touched her private parts through his penis.
He also pressed-on her chest. In the meantime, Jupitara saw the
incident’’She_(Qupitara) informed the matter to neighbours. When
accused came to know that Jupitara saw the incident he left her. He
also. asked her not to disclose the matter to the villagers as these
acts are very bad. She at first informed the matter to her
grandmother. Thereafter, she informed the matter to her mother.
Lateron she informed to her father and also informed to the
headman of the village. Her father lodged a complaint before the
police station. After instituting the case, she was examined through
the doctor of Biswanath Chariali hospital.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination
except giving many suggestions, the evidence as to at the relevant
time while she went to the house of the accused to give some

“phehu”, accused fell her down in the bed, opening her pant and
Page 4 of 17

touched her private parts through his penis and accused also
pressed on her chest has remained unchallenged.

10. PW-2 Sri Pranjal Hazarika, father of the victim and
informant of this case, stated that the accused Santa Hazarika is
not related to him but he resides in a house which is situated
infront of his house. There is a road in between their houses. At the
time of occurrence she was 6 years old and was a student of Class
II. About one year ago the occurrence took place. The occurrence
took place at about 12 noon and at that time he was not at home
because he went out to work. His sister-in-law Gitanjali and another
person named Heramba Hazarika informed him. about the
occurrence. He immediately came home and met:Mintu) Hazarika on
the road infront of his house. He also saw a group of women had
gathered infront of his house. He could notsfind the accused at that
time as he had already fled. He was advised by the villagers to go
to the Police Station. Accordingly, he informed police and they came
to their village in search of the, accused but could not find him. His
daughter informed him.about the fact of the case. When he had
orally informed police about the occurrence, immediately his
daughter sent by. police to Biswanath Chariali for medical
examination.and-his wife accompanied his daughter. He had asked
villagers‘to, hand over the accused to police. On this issue a meeting
washeld. The accused was also attended the said meeting. The
accused was against the decision of the villagers so after about one
month of the occurrence, he had filed the written ejahar in the
police Station. Ext. 1 is the written ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his
signature. Ext. 1 was written by a professional ejahar writer. On the
basis of his instruction, the said ejahar was written.

In cross-examination, he admitted that he has two
daughters. Rinki is his first daughter. On the day of the occurrence,
his daughter was sent to medical examination. On the day of the
occurrence, when he had come to his residence form the place of
work, he met Smt. Kuki Hazarika, Sri Tutu Handique, Sri Bubu

Handique, Sri Heramba Hazarika, Sri Ashim Saikia, Smt. Rupali
Page 5 of 17

Hazarika, Smti Bhanu Saikia etc. infront of his house. Kuki Hazarika
had asked him to go the police station and accordingly he went
there. There are four other houses between the house of the
accused and that of Kuki Hazarika. When he had gone to the Police
station on being advised by Kuki Hazarika, he took with him, his
wife and victim daughter. Then he had filed the ejahar but Ext. 1
does not mentioned the reasons in lodging the ejahar in late.

11.  PW-3 Sri Manash Saikia stated that he knows the accused
Santa Hazarika. he also know the victim, D/O Pranjal Saikia. He
cannot recall the date of incident. In the meeting held ‘near. the
house of the accused, he was present there. He heard that the
accused has committed rape on the victim.

In cross- examination, he stated that.he has not seen the
incident himself. At the time of incident,\he was at his shop at
Centre. Accused is their neighbour. After hearing the news he has
not visited the place of occurrence. Other than that he does not
know about the incident.

12. PW- 4SI Pradip-Hazarika, Investigating Officer of this case,
stated that On 04-01-2015, he was posted at Sootea Police station
as SI of Police and on that day, O.C Sootea PS, Sub Inspector
Homendra Hira.on-receipt of one FIR from Pranjal Hazarika, S/O Sri
Jatin Hazarika, of Bogolibari, PS Sootea registered a case being
Sootea*PS ‘Case No. 3/15 u/s 511 of IPC r/w section 6/7 of POCSO
Actsand endorsed him for investigation of this case. Ext. 1 is the
said FIR and Ext. 1(2) is the signature of O.C Sootea PS, Sub
Inspector Homendra Hira. Thereafter, he had visited the place of
occurrence i.e. the house of the accused situated at Bogolibari
village. He has recorded the statement of witnesses namely, Pranjal
Hazarika, Manas Saikia, Manju Hazarika, Dilip Hazarika at the place
of occurrence. He prepared a sketch map of the place of occurrence
vide Ext. 2 and Ext. 2(1) is his signature. He found the accused
Santa Hazarika @ Pinku at the place of occurrence, arrested him.
On the next day, he forwarded the accused to judicial custody. After

receiving transfer order, he handed over the case diary to the then
Page 6 of 17

O.C Sootea PS. He has not recorded the statement of the victim
because she is 6 years old.

In cross-examination he admitted that on 04-01-2015 he

has visited the place of occurrence. Immediately after endorsement
to investigate the case, he has been proceeded to the place of
occurrence. He has not seized any articles from the place of
occurrence. According to the statement of the father, the victim was
6 years old. He has not sent the victim for medical examination.
The witnesses are not eye witnesses. Both the accused and the
victim are resides in the same locality. He has also met.one. five
years old daughter of the accused at his home. Therevis a good
relation in between the accused’s family and the.informant. The
remaining part of investigation was done by‘his successor I.O. Ms
Dhariti Choudhury.
13. PW 5 SI Satish Sahoo, stated that on 18-03-2015 he was
posted at Sootea Police station, as Officer-in-Charge. On that day
after taking charge of the O/C, he has also taken the charge of
remaining part of investigation of Sootea PS Case No. 3/15. During
investigation, he has seized one DVD R Moserbaer containing the
VDO recording of statement of the victim prepared in connection
with the investigation of the case. That DVD is hand over to him by
Smti Dharitri,choudhury, SI of police posted at Biswanath Chariali in
presence “of the witnesses namely, Shabsrang Basumatary,
constable No. 237 of 12" APBN Camp, Sootea PS, Platoon No. 20
and UBC Kiron Chandra Doley of Sootea PS. Ext. 3 is the said
seizurelist of aforesaid DVD and Ext. 3(1) is his signature. Material
Ext. 1 is the said DVD. He has mentioned in the Case diary that
Jupitora, the daughter of the accused who has seen the incident
was about 3/4 years so he did not feel to record the statement of
Jupitara. Then he filed the charge sheet against the accused Santa
Hazarika u/s 8 of POCSO Act. Ext. 4 is the charge sheet and Ext.
4(1) is his signature.
Page 7 of 17

14. PW 6 Smt. Dharitri Choudhury, stated that on 27-03-2015
she was posted as SI of police at Sootea Police station. On that day,
she recorded the statement of victim in her house in Sootea PS
Case No. 03/15 (GR Case No. 22/15) as per the request of O/C of
Sootea Police station and she being the lady officer for that reason
she was called for from Biswanath Chariali. Accordingly she
recorded the statement of witnesses and prepared CD after VDO
Graph.The said CD was seized by I.O. from her. Ext. 3 is the said
seizurelist and Ext. 3(2) is her signature.

15. CW 1 Miss Jupitara Hazarika, the daughter of the. accused
stated that accused is her father. He cannot recall. the date of
incident. She knows Rinki Hazarika, she is her neighbor. At the
relevant time, her parents went to paddy field.to cut paddy and she
was alone at her house with her grandmother. She did not see any
incident.

In cross-examination, she admitted that Sweety is her
friend. She used to play with heryOn the day of incident, Sweety
came to their house to. give.“Fehu” and it was handed over to her
grandmother and she.has eaten some “Phehu” as given by her
grandmother. Sweety used to visit their house even today. She also
brings her mother-to their house and they have a talking terms with
her mother.

16... ‘These much is the evidence of prosecution.

17». Defence plea is total denial while his statement was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

18. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the
prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable
doubt. Firstly, other than victim no one eye witness to the
occurrence. Secondly, there is a wide contradiction in between the
statement of victim and the ejahar. Thirdly, when accused came to
know that Jupitara has witnessed the incident, then he left the
victim but CW 1 Jupitara no way supported the version of the

victim. As such, the accused is required to be acquitted.
Page 8 of 17

19. On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor has
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case against the
accused beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, there is no any
other person in the house of the accused when the incident took
place. Therefore, it is futile to expect for the prosecution to adduce
other witnesses. Secondly, Jupitara being the daughter of the
accused naturally did not give any evidence against her own father.
Thirdly, immediately after the incident victim reported the matter
to her grandmother, then to her mother and then to her.father.
Fourthly, the statement of the victim corroborated. to.. the
statement made before the I.0. and Lastly, there appears no any
evidence that accused has any enmity or quarrel with the
complainant to implicate him falsely.

20. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the
learned counsels of both the parties, I am-going to dispose of the
case as follows.

21. After going through the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses,
it is seen except the victim, ‘there is no eye witness to the incident,
but after the incident, the victim informed about the incident to her
grandmother and thereafter she informed the matter to her mother.
When her father=arrived lateron from his works she narrated the
whole incident to her father, which are corroborated. According to
the PW.2, the informant, who is the father of the victim stated that
the\incident took place about one year ago at about 12 noon and
which are corroborated.

According to PW 2, the informant who is the father of the
victim, stated that the incident took place about one year ago at
about 12 noon and at that time he was not at home because he
went out to his work. His sister-in-law and another person named
Heramba Hazarika informed him about the incident. He immediately
came home and met Mintu Hazarika on the road infront of his
house. He could not find the accused at that time as he had already
fled away. He was advised by the villagers to go the police station

and accordingly, he informed police. Initially the villagers were
Page 9 of 17

convened a meeting where he asked the villagers to hand over the
accused to police. In the meeting accused was also present. The
accused was against the decision of the villagers so after about one
month of the occurrence he had filed the written ejahar in the
police station. Ext. 1 is the written ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his
signature. The victim PW 1 stated that at the time of incident, she
was a student of class II standard. On that day a calf was born in
their house. Her grandmother asked her to give some “Phehu” to
Jupitara, who is the daughter of the accused. Then she went.to the
house of her “Bordeuta”. In their house, her “Bordeuta” opened her
underwear (Panty), fell her down in bed, thereafter, her “Bordeuta”
touched her private parts through his male sexualh.organ. He also
pressed her chest. In the meantime, Jupitara seen the incident
through the window. She (Jupitara) informed the matter to
neighbours. On being came to know-that Jupitara seen the incident
her “Bordueta” immediately left her. She was also told her
“Bordueta” not to disclose-the matter to any person. After the
incident she immediately informed the matter to her grandmother
and thereafter to her mother. On arrival of her father she reported
the matter to her\father. Then her father lodged the complaint
before the police-station. Though she has been exposed to long
cross-examination except giving many suggestions, the evidence as
to at the»relevant time when she went to the house of her
“Bordeuta” to give some “phehu” to Jupitara, accused (bordeuta)
fell’ her down in the bed, opened her pant and touched her private
parts through his sexual male organ and accused also pressed on
her chest has remained unchallenged. Her evidence is corroborated
with the statement made before the police u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Though
her statement was not recorded through the learned Magistrate but
immediately after lodging the ejahar, the I.0. has recorded her
statement which has corroborated.

22. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the
prosecution has failed to prove the age of the victim as they have

not been seized any school certificate or Birth certificate of victim to
Page 10 of 17

ascertain the age. Therefore, the case cannot be stated to be fallen
under POCSO Act.

23.  Itis true that in the present case there is no documents like
Birth certificate or age certificate or any certificate issued by the
School authority where the victim last studied or any certificate
issued by local Panchayat etc. to prove the victim that she was 6/7
years at the time of incident. According to the victim on the day of
deposition i.e. on 03-05-2016 she was 7 years old. The incident
took place on or about one month ahead of the day of filing_of the
ejahar i.e. on 04-01-2015 that means it was occurred probably in
the month of December, 2014. Therefore, at the time of occurrence
her age was less than 5 years. According to the:informant, i.e. the
father of the victim, at the relevant time victim was about 6 years
old. In regard to age as stated by victim and her father, defence
has not been challenged at any point of time therefore it can be
safely held that the victim was a.minor.

24. In the case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State,
represented by the Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD)
No.98 of 2015, it was held that it is true that primary evidence to
prove the date of birth of the individual may be preferably the birth
certificate. But).it-cannot be said that in absence of birth certificate,
the daterof birth cannot be proved. When the age of the individual
is not disputed, the question of proving the same does not arise at
all. It is the settled law that a fact in issue or any relevant fact or
any fact relevant to the issue, which is disputed by the adverse
party alone, needs proof. If it is not disputed, there is no need to
lead any evidence in proof of the said admitted fact.

25. In this case, the victim and her father categorically stated
the age of the victim was about less than 5 years from the very
beginning of the case, at the time of commission of offence, besides
during cross-examination, the same has not been disputed at all by
the accused side. Thus, the evidence of PWs 1 and 2 in respect of

age of the victim remains unchallenged.
Page 11 of 17

26. _In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the
material particulars with regard to the incident that on the day of
incident, when victim went to the house of the accused to give
some “Phehu” to Jupitara, the daughter of the accused, accused
hold her, laid her down on bed, opened her underwear, touched her
private parts through his male sexual organ and thereby committed
sexual assault to her. During that time, Jupitara, daughter of the
accused (her bordeuta) seen the incident through the window and
on being seen Jupitara, accused left the victim. It is a fact that
though Jupitara was examined as CW 1 she did not state.that she
seen her father in committing such type of misdeed’to the victim.
Obviously Jupitara being a minor daughter of«<the accused, the
incident took place somewhere in the month of December, 14 and
she was examined before the court as*CW 1 on 05-01-2018 i.e.
after about four years. Obviously, during that four years time she
might have developed her knowledge that if she stated the truth
then her evidence would go against her father so it is expected that
a daughter never supported ‘such incident against her father.
According to the victim, after the incident she reported the incident
to her grand mother first then to her mother and on arrival of her
father she reported the matter to her father. According to the PW 2,
the father*of.the victim/informant stated that her daughter informed
him.about the fact of the case.

PW 3 is an independent reporting witness. He heard from
the’ villagers that accused has committed rape on the victim.
Thereby he also supported the prosecution case. There is nothing in
the evidence of PWs that the accused had any enmity or quarrel
with the complainant to file the case falsely against the accused by
implicating his own young daughter. Therefore, the defence of false
allegation is not made out.

27. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan Vs.
Babu Muna (2013) 4 SCC 206, has observed as under :-
“9. We do not have any slightest hesitation in accepting the

broad submission of Mr. Jain that the conviction be based on the
Page 12 of 17

sole testimony of the prosecutrix, it found to be worthy of credence
and reliable and for that no corroboration is required. It has often
been said that oral testimony can be clarified into three categories,
namely, (i) wholly reliable, (ii) whole unreliable and (iii) neither
wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable. In case of wholly reliable
testimony of single witness, the conviction can be found without
corroboration. This principle applies with greater in terms in case
the nature of offence is such that it is committed in seclusion. In
case prosecution is based on wholly unreliable testimony of_single
witness but the court has no option to acquit the accused.”

28. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse’on the part of
accused is not leading any defence evidence: would not have
mattered much as prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond
shadows of all reasonable doubts. However).in a case under POCSO
Act, the situation is not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to
refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

29. U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn-against the accused in a prosecution for
certain offences and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is

prosecuted for.committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall
presume that such person has committed or abetted or attempted
to_commit the offence, as the case may be, unless the contrary is
proved.
30. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the
Special Court shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable
mental state of the accused where culpable mental state is required
on the part of the accused. Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any
prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall
presume that existence of such mental state but it shall be a

defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such
Page 13 of 17

mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that
prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be

proved only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond
reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established
by a preponderance of probabilities.
31. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be
recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness or not? Such issue
was dealt by the Hon’ble Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of
U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as
a determinative factor to treat a witness to be a.competent one. On
the contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who
may testify — all persons shall be competent to testify unless the
Court considers that they are prevented from understanding the
questions put to them, or from giving rational answers to those
questions, by tender years,extreme old age, disease, whether of
body or mind, or any other cause of the same kind.”

32. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she
has intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational
answers thereto.<Fhe evidence of a child witness is not required to
be rejected per se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers
such’ evidence with close scrutiny and only on being convinced
about the quality thereof and reliability can record conviction, based
thereon.

33. In Dattu’ Ramrao Sakhare —- Vs -— State of
Maharashtra, (1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that a child witness
if found competent to depose to the facts and reliable one such
evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other words, even in
the absence of oath the evidence of a child witness can be
considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness
is able to understand the questions and able to give rational answer
thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof

would depend upon the circumstances of each case. The only
Page 14 of 17

precaution which the Court should bear in mind while assessing the
evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a reliable
one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent
witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored.

34. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs
— State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the
decision on the question whether the child witness has sufficient
intelligence primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his
manners, his apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and the
said Judge may resort to any examination which will\tend to
disclose his capacity and intelligence as well as his understanding of
the obligation of an oath.

35. Inthe present case, at the time of examination of the victim,
some questions were put to her and she.replied the same without
any hesitation and after confirming:about the understanding and
ability to speak rational answers my learned predecessor in court
recorded her statement. Her statement was also supported by PW
2, her father.

36. On appreciation of the evidence given by the victim, her
father and other independent witnesses, it comes to the conclusion
that it is the.accused who attempt to commit sexual assault to the
victim. The victim was no doubt not examined by the I.O. through
the doctor‘or even her statement was not recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Under\such circumstances, I think that the prosecution has failed to
prove the ingredients of section 10 of the POCSO Act.

37. In regard to the age of the victim, it appears that as stated
above, the victim as well as father of the victim all were stated that
the victim is below 12 years of age. However, I.O. has failed to
produce any documentary proof as to her age, neither she was
medically examined to know about her age. Under such
circumstances, it can be sated that accused has attempted to
commit the offence of sexual assault and therefore, accused Sri
Santa Hazarika is acquitted from the alleged charge u/s 10 of the
POCSO Act but he is convicted u/s 18 of the POCSO Act.
Page 15 of 17

38. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he
praying for leniency stating that he has his wife and one little
daughter to look after and he has been in custody for a long time.
Besides that he is the only bread earner of his family, hence,
praying for leniency.
39. I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well as
learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur.
40. ‘Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that.the Court
should strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances;relate to the
crime and mitigating circumstances relate to the,criminal. In this case,
so far as the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor girl
was sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only to the
body but also to the mind of not only to the victim but that of entire
family members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the
accused was hardly 35 years of age at the time of the incident. It is
not brought to the notice of this Court that before this incident, the
accused had committed any other offence. There is likelihood of his
reformation, but the statute u/s.18 of POCSO Act a punishment for any
description provided for the offence, for a term which may extend to
one-half/of the imprisonment for life or, as the case may be, one-half
of the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence or with
fine.orwith both.
ORDER

41. I convict the accused Sri Santa Hazarika u/s. 18 of POCSO Act
and sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 3 (three) months and
to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand only) in default
Rigorous Imprisonment for 5 (five) months.

It appears from the record that the accused has been in
custody since 05-01-2015 to 04-04-2015.

The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from

the period of imprisonment, imposed on him.
Page 16 of 17

42. The fine if realized be given to the father of the victim as

compensation.
43. A copy of this Judgment be furnished to the accused free of
cost and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur,
Tezpur, as per provisions of law.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 25"

day of July, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation takenvand transcribed by me:

Smt. R, Hazarika, Steno
Oi UT go fe

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4

Page 17 of 17

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

i Victim Miss X

‘- Sri Pranjal Hazarika, complainant

- Sri Manash Saikia

Se SI Pradip Hazarika,I.O.

- Satish Sahoo, I.O.

‘ Smti Dhariti Choudhury, SI of police.

Court Witness.
CW 1 — Miss Jupitara Hazarika:

EXHIBITS.

:- Ejahar

:- Sketch map.
:- Seizurelist:

:- G@hargseheet.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
