IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sessions Special (POCSO) Case No. 04/2015
(u/s 366/376 IPC r/w Section 4/6 of the POCSO Act)

Present : Mr. P. Das
Special Judge,
Morigaon, Assam.
State of Assam

-VS-
Sh. Hemanta Basumatary __..... Accused
Date of Charge : 01.10.2015.
Date of Argument : 13.09.2019.
Date of Judgment : 11.10.2019.
Appearance for the Parties:
Advocate for the State : Mr. A. Kalam, learned public prosecutor.

Advocate for the Accused : Mr. P. R. Bora, Ld. Advocate.
Mr. T. Boro, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that an ejahar dated 08.05.2014, was lodged
before the Jagiroad Police Station by one Raju Konwar alleging inter-alia that the
accused Sh. Hemanta Basumatary kidnapped the minor daughter of the informant
from near a Bihu function at Belguri village and kept her concealed at his house. On
the basis of the ejahar, Jagiroad PS Case No. 179/2014, was registered under
Section 366(A) IPC and investigation started.

2. After completion of investigation, charge sheet was submitted against the
accused, Sh. Hemanta Basumatary u/s 366(A) IPC. Subsequently, vide order dated
01.10.2015, charges were framed against the accused u/s 366(A)/376 IPC r/w
Section 4/6 of the POCSO Act, 2012, by this Court. The charges upon being read
over and explained to the accused, were denied by him, leading to commencement
of the trial.
3. At the trial, prosecution side adduced evidence of four witnesses including
the informant. The prosecutrix was summoned as Court Witness and examined as
CW-1 and thereafter cross-examined by the defence. After completion of
prosecution evidence, the accused was duly examined u/s 313 Cr.PC. The defence

did not adduce any evidence.

4. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether, the accused Sh. Hemanta Basumatary is guilty of committing
an offence punishable u/s 366(A)/376 IPC ?

(ii) Whether, the accused Sh. Hemanta Basumatary committed penetrative
sexual assault upon the prosecutrix, aged about 16 years, and thereby,
guilty of committing an offence punishable u/s 4/6 of the POCSO Act ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. I have carefully perused the ejahar, the charge sheet, evidence adduced

 

during trial, exhibits and other relevant materials on record. I have heard learned
Public Prosecutor appearing for the State and Mr. P. R. Bora assisted by Mr. T. Boro,
learned defence counsel for the accused and considered the submissions of the

respective learned counsels.

6. PW-1 Julee Konwar, stated in her deposition that the informant is her uncle
and the victim/prosecutrix is her cousin sister. She stated that on the day of the
incident at about 10 PM in the night, the prosecutrix along with her friend Pallabi
had gone to Belguri to enjoy a Bihu function, but did not return back and that on
the next morning at about 6 — 7 AM, the accused made a call on her phone and
informed her that he had taken away the prosecutrix. This witness further stated
that thereupon she informed about it to the family members, who went to the
house of the accused and filed the instant case. She further stated that after
lodging of the ejahar, the prosecutrix was recovered by the police from the house
of the accused. This witness further stated that at the time of the incident the
prosecutrix was aged about 14 years and studying in class IX. This witness further
stated that after the incident she met the prosecutrix but not enquired about the

matter from her.
7. PW-2 Renuka Konwar, stated in her deposition that the informant was her
husband and the prosecutrix was her daughter and that she knew the accused. She
stated in her deposition that on the day of the incident at about 10 PM in the night,
the prosecutrix had gone to Belguri to enjoy a Bihu function and that at the time of
the incident, she was aged 14 years and studying in class IX. This witness further
stated that she went to the Bihu function in a group of girls but did not return home
whereupon they thought that she had stated in her friend’s house. This witness
further stated that on the next day at about 7 AM in the morning, PW-1 received a
phone call from someone who informed the that he had taken away the prosecutrix
and that thereafter on finding the address of the person, her husband along with
his uncle and other relatives went to the house of the accused, but the accused
hide the victim and informed them that she was not there, whereupon her husband
returned back home. This witness further stated that in the afternoon she along
with PW-1 went to the house of the accused but did not find him but there they
met the father of the accused and the father of the accused assured them that he
will send the girl by 6 — 7 PM in the evening on the day. This witness further stated
that when however the girl had not returned, her husband filed the instant case,
whereafter the police recovered the prosecutrix from the house of the accused. This
witness further stated that after her recovery, when she questioned the prosecutrix
regarding the incident she told her that she was in love with the accused and that
the accused had forcibly taken her to his house. In cross-examination, this witness
reiterated that she had stated before the police that the prosecutrix told her that
the accused had forcibly taken her from the Bihu field.

8. PW-3 Raju Konwar stated in his deposition that he is the informant of the
case and that the prosecutrix was his daughter and that he knew the accused. He
further stated that the incident had taken place in the year 2015 and that at that
time, the prosecutrix was aged 15 — 16 years and she was studying in class IX. He
further stated in his evidence that at the time one Bihu function was being
organised at Belguri village and the prosecutrix went there along with some other
village girls but did not return back at night. He further stated that around 7:30 AM
on the next morning he received the phone call from the accused who told him that
the prosecutrix had stayed in his house, whereupon this witness along with some

other villagers went there and found his daughter. This witness further stated that
the family members of the accused assured them to hand over the girl and asked
them to come back again in the evening at 5 — 6 PM. That, however when the girl
did not return he went to the Jagiroad police station and lodged the instant case.
He proved his ejahar as Exhibit 1 and his signature thereon as Exhibit 1 (1). In
cross-examination by the learned defence, he stated that he saw the prosecutrix in
the house of the accused but could not talk to her and denied that at the time of

the incident, his daughter was aged more than 18 years.

9. PW-4 Pallavi Paul stated in her deposition that she knew the prosecutrix and
that on the day of the incident she along with the prosecutrix had gone to enjoy a
Bihu function and that while they were enjoying the Bihu function, suddenly the
prosecutrix disappeared without informing her. This witness further stated that
subsequently accompanied by some villagers, she went to the house of the victim,
where her parents asked her about the whereabouts of the prosecutrix. This
witness further stated that on that night she stayed in the house of the victim and
on the following day she returned back to her home and that since then she had
not met the prosecutrix. She further stated that at the time of the incident the
prosecutrix was a student of class IX. The learned defence declined to cross

examine this witness.

10. CW-1 is the prosecutrix. She stated in her deposition that the informant is
her father and that she knew the accused person who is a resident of their village.
She further stated in her deposition that the incident occurred when she was
studying in class IX and at that time she was aged 15 years. She further stated that
on the date of the occurrence, at night she along with another friend went to see
Bihu function which was going on in their village and in the function she met the
accused who had called her up. She further stated in her deposition that thereafter
the accused took her to his house and kept her in his house with him and on the
next day, her parents went to his house and brought her to their house, whereafter
her father lodged the instant case. In cross-examination by the learned defence,
the prosecutrix stated that she had gone to the house of the accused as friend and
stayed there as a friend. She further stated that nothing untoward incident took
place in the house of the accused and that the accused did not commit any illegal
act with her.
11. The testimony of PW-1 that on next morning the accused Hemanta
Basumatary telephoned and informed her that he has taken the prosecutrix with
him would be in the nature of extra judicial confession regarding the said taking
away. Further, PW-2 has also corroborated the same by stating that PW-1 had
received said phone call from the person who was later found to be the accused.
PW-3 -the informant and father of the prosecutrix has also given testimony that on
the next morning he received a phone call from the accused stating that the

prosecutrix is staying in his house.

12. However, the aforesaid testimony of PW-1 and PW-2 does not indicate as to
whether the prosecutrix was forcefully taken away by the accused. PW-1 and PW-2
have stated that the prosecutrix was recovered by police from the house of the
accused. PW-3 has also stated about finding the prosecutrix in the house of the

accused.

13. Therefore, on the basis of the testimony of PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3, it is clear
that on the day of the incident, the prosecutrix had gone with the accused or was

taken by him and that she was found at his house subsequently.

14. On the day of the incident, the prosecutrix had supposedly gone to the
Belguri village to enjoy Bihu function with Pallavi Paul who has adduced evidence as
PW-4. However, PW-4 apart from stating that the prosecutrix disappeared from the
Bihu function without informing her has not thrown any more light regarding the

incident and has also not implicated the accused in any way.

15. Having analyzed the evidence of PW-1 to PW-4, I would now analyze the
testimony of the prosecutrix who has been examined as CW-1. In her testimony,
the prosecutrix stated about meeting the accused in the Bihu function and the
accused taking her to his house, keeping her there and on the next morning her
parents bringing her back. The parents of the prosecutrix as PW-2 and PW-3 have
not stated about bringing back the prosecutrix themselves from the house of the
accused. The prosecutrix has clearly stated in her cross-examination that she went
to the house of the accused as friend; stayed there as friend; that no untoward
incident took place in his house and that the accused did not commit any illegal act

upon her.
16. Thus, the prosecutrix in her evidence has not implicated the accused and
has rather exonerated him. Though she has stated her age to be 15 years at the
time of the incident, the aforesaid non-implication and exoneration of the accused
by her in her testimony as a whole does not indicate any enticement or forcefully

taking away of her by the accused.

17. The limited implication of the accused in the testimony of PW-1, PW-2 and
PW-3 is contradictory to the clear non-implication in the testimony of the
prosecutrix and her exoneration of him, thereby, casting doubt on the veracity of
the prosecution case. It may be mentioned herein that the crucial testimony of PW-
4 who was with the prosecutrix in the Bihu function also does not implicate the
accused. In this context, the statement of the PW-2, mother of the prosecutrix in
her evidence about the prosecutrix telling her that the prosecutrix had love affairs

with the accused also assumes significance.

18. In the given facts and circumstances, I find contradictions between the
testimony of PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 and the testimony of the prosecutrix/victim,

compounded by the non-implications of the accused by PW-4.

19. It is well settled that when two views are possible in a criminal trial, the one
beneficial to the accused has to be adopted and he has to be given benefit of
doubt.

20. In the instant case, on the basis of the evidence on record, I come to the
considered view and finding that the prosecution case with regard to the charges
against the accused by way of kidnapping, rape and sexual assault is not proved
beyond reasonable doubt and therefore, the benefit of doubt has to be given to the

accused thereby, entitling him to be acquitted.

ORDER
21. On the basis of the evidence and other relevant materials on record of the
case, the accused Sh. Hemanta Basumatary stands acquitted. He shall be set at

liberty forthwith, if, not wanted in any other case.

22. — His bail bond and sureties stands discharged.
23. A copy of this judgment and order shall be sent to the learned District
Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with Section 365 of the Cr.PC.

24. Given under my hand and seal on this the 11" day of October, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by me (P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
(P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witness:

1. PW-1
2. PW-2
3. PW-3
4. PW-4
5. CW-1

: Julee Konwar.

: Renuka Konwar.
: Raju Konwar.

: Pallavi Paul.

: Prosecutrix.

B. Defence witness :

Nil.

B. Prosecution Exhibit :

Exhibit-1

: FIR.

D. Defence exhibits :

Nil.

(P Das)
Sessions Judge,
Morigaon, Assam
Sessions Special (POCSO) Case No. 04/2015
11.10.2019:

Accused Sh. Hemanta Basumatary is present along with

learned defence counsel.

The judgment, in separate sheet is ready and pronounced in
the open court. On the basis of the relevant materials and evidence
on record, the accused Sh. Hemanta Basumatary stands acquitted.
He shall be set at liberty forthwith, if, not wanted in any other case.

His bail bond and sureties stands discharged.

A copy of this judgement and order shall be sent to the
learned District Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with section 365
Cr.P.C.

The instant case stands disposed of on the aforesaid terms.

Sessions Judge
Morigaon, Assam
