 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 68 (T) of 2018
U/s 4 of POCSO Act
The State of ASSAM — haa eaccceceeeeeeeeeeeenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Binoy Sonowal,
S/o- Sanatan Sonowal
R/o- Lawpatty Gaon

P.S- Doomdooma

District- Tinsukia, ASSAM kee eeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee Accused.
Appearance:

Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor .............. For the State

S. Sarmah,

AOVOGRIS — sanacaxsancum issn For the accused.

Date of Argument: 27/09/2019
Date of Judgment: 01/10/2019
J} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

Li On the day of occurrence, at about 2 pm, the victim
had gone to the nearby jungle to bring some vegetables. She
had a sickle with her hands. While she was in the jungle, she
met the accused, who asked her whether she had seen a red
colour cow. The victim told him that she did not notice his cow
and thereafter the accused took her deep into the jungle,
where he had pressed her breasts and also inserted his hand
inside her pant and touched her vagina. Thereafter, the
accused had committed rape upon her.

2. At the time of occurrence, the victim resisted the
accused and thereby she hit the accused with the sickle,
which was in her possession at that time and the accused
sustained one cut injury below his eyes.

Bi, The victim returned home after the occurrence and
informed her mother about the occurrence.

4. After four days of the occurrence, the victim girl found
the accused on the road and thereafter her mother had lodged
an ejahar before police. After filing of the ejahar, the victim

was subjected to medical examination.
5. The findings of the Doctor are as follows:-

"Her age of menarche was 12. Last menstrual period
was unknown. At the time of examination, she was not
menstruating. She was not pregnant at the time of
examination. In general physical examination- she was
oriented to space and time. Clothings - stains of blood present.
She had washed her body and her genitals. Teeth- 28. On
examination of genitals- no injury found, but history of biting
over breast- present. Local examination of genitals portion -
labia major swelling and tear was present. There was vulval
haematoma, size about 5 cm x 3cm on the right side. Vulval
bleeding was present. Hymen was torn, but there was no fresh
injury. Vaginal smear of hymen was taken for detection of
spermatozoa. On examination of supplied smear- does not
reveal any spermatozoa. Urine for HGC was done- Negative.
USG advised. As per radiological opinion, her age is between
14 to 16 years."

6. The Doctor opined that there were no signs of
suggestive use of recent force and forceful penetration into
the vagina.

7. On conclusion of investigation, police filed the charge
sheet against the accused.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

8. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether on 23/12/2018, the accused had committed

penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

9. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as five witnesses,
who included the Police Investigating Officer and the Doctor,
who had examined the victim girl at the time of occurrence.
The defence plea is total denial and no evidence has been
adduced by the accused. | have carefully gone through the

prosecution evidences.
10. The mother of the victim girl is the informant herein
and she was examined first by the prosecution. Her evidence
is based on whatever she had heard from her daughter. She
has stated in her evidence that her daughter told her that one
unknown person had committed rape upon her inside a jungle.
The mother of the victim girl has quoted her daughter as
telling her that she had attacked the accused with a sickle and
for that matter, the accused sustained a cut injury below his
eyes. The mother of the victim girl has stated that since she
could not find the accused and therefore, she did not file
ejahar immediately after the occurrence.

11. Now, | shall take up the evidence of the victim girl. She
has supported the prosecution case against the accused in her

evidence.

Lz. The witness Papu Baruah has stated in his evidence
that on the day of occurrence at about 4 pm, the mother of
the victim girl had come to his house and told him that the
accused had committed rape upon her daughter inside the
jungle. Papu Baruah has stated that for the next four days
they were searching for the accused and on the fourth day,
they found him at Tekeraguri village and handed him over to
police. He has stated that the accused had admitted that he
had committed rape upon the victim girl.

13. The Police Investigating Officer spoke about the
investigation of the case.

14. All the prosecution witnesses have been cross
examined by the Ld. defence counsel.

15. During her cross examination, Dr. Lovelin, who had
examined the victim girl during the period of investigation has
stated before the defence counsel that in her report, she
mentioned that the injury which was found on the labia majora
of the victim girl was recent. Dr. Lovelin further stated that the
word "recent" does not mean fresh. She has stated that the
word recent in her report means till the injury was not healed.
Dr. Lovelin has further stated before the defence counsel that
the injury which were found on the labia majora of the victim
were fresh and by the word fresh, she meant that it was about
24 hours old.

16. The mother of the victim girl did not state before the
police that on the day of occurrence, her daughter came home
crying and she told her that one unknown person had
committed rape upon her. She also did not state before police
that her daughter told her that she had attacked the accused
with a sickle and caused a cut injury below his eyes. These
facts have been confronted to this witness by the Ld. defence
counsel. The Police Investigating Officer in his cross
examination has proved that fact. The mother of the victim
girl has stated before the defence counsel that after four days
of the occurrence, when she discovered the accused, he was
still bleeding from his wound below his eyes.

17. The victim girl has stated before the defence counsel
that after the occurrence, when she returned home she did not
tell anyone on the road about the said occurrence. The victim
also stated before the defence counsel that after four days of
the occurrence, she recognized the accused by seeing the
injury mark below his eyes.

18. The evidence available in the record clearly shows that
at the time of occurrence, the victim girl did not know the
accused. She had caused a cut injury below the eye of the
accused by using a sickle and after four days of the
occurrence, she identified the accused on seeing the cut injury
below his eyes. There is no investigation in this case to that
effect that at the time of his apprehension, the accused had a
cut injury below his eyes.

19. Another aspect of the evidence that has come to my
notice is that Dr. Lovelin in her report marked as Ext. 1 has
stated that there were signs of suggestive of recent use of
force and forceful penetration into the vagina. Dr. Lovelin has
Clarified that the said "recent injuries" were not fresh injuries.
Dr. has also clarified in her evidence that the word recent
means that till the injury was not healed.

20. Here in this case, after four days of the occurrence the
ejahar was lodged. The reason is that the victim did not know
the accused. After four days of the occurrence, she saw the
accused on the road and identified him from the injury below
his eyes. In our society many people can have the same or
similar injuries below their eyes. The method of identification
of the accused failed to inspire confidence.

21. In my considered opinion, the delay of four days has not
been satisfactorily explained in the instant case. It is true that
delay in lodging an ejahar does not always affect a
prosecution trial, but in the instant case, the delay has caused
some doubts in my mind. The Investigating Officer has not
stated in his evidence that the accused had a cut injury below
his eyes, when he was arrested.

22. Under the aforesaid circumstances, | have no hesitation
to hold that there is a substantial doubt about the veracity of
the prosecution case against the accused. |, therefore, hold
that the prosecution evidence failed to inspire confidence. The
prosecution has failed to prove the offence against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

23. In the result, the accused Binoy Sonowal is found not
guilty and accordingly, he is acquitted from this case on
benefit of doubt.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
lst day of October, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Smti Atuwari Orang
2. PW2 - Smti Manju Orang
3. PW3 - Dr. Lovelin

4. PW4 - Sri Papu Baruah

5. PW5 - Sri Kapil Ch. Das

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1- Medical report

2. Ext. 2- Radiological report with X-ray plates
B. Ext. 3- Laboratory report

4. Ext. 4 - G.D. entry

5. Ext. 5 - Sketch map

6. Ext. 6 - Ejahar

7. Ext. 7 - Statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.PC
8. Ext. 8 - Charge sheet.

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
