IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, MORIGAON
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

Present : Mr. P. Das
Special Judge,
Morigaon, Assam.

State of Assam

-VS-

Md. Zahir Hussain @ Jahir Hussain __..... Accused
Date of Charge : 30.11.2018
Date of Argument : 24.07.2019
Date of Judgment : 03.09.2019

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State : Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the Accused : Mr. M. Rahman, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that an ejahar was lodged on 23.06.2018,
before the Mikirbheta Police Station alleging inter-alia that the accused Zahir
Hussain @ Jahir Hussain who is her father has been sexually harassing the
informant since her attaining puberty; that he used to show her vulgar signs;
that he touched her private parts; that on 22.06.2018, at about 10 O’clock at
night he entered her room and tried to commit rape upon her and that when her
mother resisted him, he assaulted her and her mother was rescued by her
relatives. On the basis of the ejahar, Mikirbheta PS Case No. 226/2018, was
registered under Section 376/511/325/307 IPC and investigation started. During
investigation statement of the victim girl was recorded u/s 161/164 Cr.PC.

2. After completion of investigation, charge sheet was submitted against the
accused, Zahir Hussain @ Jahir Hussain u/s 376/511 IPC r/w Section 10/12 of
the POCSO Act, 2012. Subsequently, vide order dated 30.11.2018, charges were
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

framed against the accused u/s 376/511/323 IPC r/w Section 10/12 of the
POCSO Act, 2012, by this Court. The charges being read over and explained to

the accused, were denied by him, leading to commencement of the trial.

3. At the trial, prosecution side examined as many as 7 witnesses including
the prosecutrix and her mother. Thereafter, the accused was duly examined u/s
313 Cr.PC, wherein, he denied the allegations. The defence adduced the
evidence of one Md. Noor Ali, brother of the accused as DW-1 and the accused
himself as DW-2. The accused was allowed to adduce evidence in exercise of
power u/s 315 Cr.PC. Both the DWs were cross-examined by the learned

prosecution.

4. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether, on 22.06.2019, the accused attempted to commit rape upon his
daughter, the prosecutrix and thereby guilty of committing an offence punishable
u/s 376/511 IPC ?

(ii) Whether, on 22.06.2018, at night, the accused voluntarily caused hurt to
his wife, Suyara Begum and guilty of committing an offence punishable u/s 323
IPC ?

(iii) | Whether, since the time of attaining puberty of the prosecutrix, the
accused who is her father committed non-penetrative sexual assault upon her

and guilty of committing an offence punishable u/s 10 of the POCSO Act ?

(iv) | Whether, since the time of attaining puberty of the prosecutrix, the
accused who is her father committed sexual harassment upon her and guilty of
committing an offence punishable u/s 12 of the POCSO Act ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

 

5. I have carefully perused the ejahar, the charge sheet, evidence adduced
during trial including the defence evidence, exhibits and other relevant materials

on record.
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

6. I have heard learned public prosecutor appearing for the State and Mr.
M. Rahman, learned defence counsel for the accused and considered the

submissions of the respective learned counsels.

7. PW-1 Suyara Begum stated in her deposition that the prosecutrix cum
informant is her daughter. The accused is her husband. That, since about 13-14
years of age of her daughter the prosecutrix, the accused used to sexually harass
her. He used to touch her body, tear her clothes, become naked before her,
embrace her after becoming naked. Her daughter the prosecutrix used to cry
before her and say that she will die by consuming poison. They did not loudly
talk about the matter for fear of neighbors hearing about the matter. At night
also, he used to try to sleep with her; remove her clothes. When she resisted, he
would beat her, even with iron rods. He has been doing all these continuously
since about 7-8 years. That their lives have become hell. She further stated in
her deposition that the accused used to attempt to commit forced sexual
intercourse upon her daughter, the prosecutrix, during these years of sexual
harassment and abuse by the accused. That, during this period he might have

succeeded in committing sexual intercourse upon her.

8. PW-1 further stated that prior to lodging of the instant case, on
22/06/2018, from about 9 PM in the night till about 10-11 PM in the night, while
she was sleeping, she heard the screams of her daughter the prosecutrix and
thereupon, she went to her room and saw that the accused had grabbed her
daughter by throwing her on the bed, trying to commit sexual act upon her.
When she resisted, the accused left her daughter and then assaulted her by
pulling her by her hair and threw her on the ground. He assaulted her with iron
rods and threw her out of the room. Thereupon, he locked the room from inside
and kept her daughter the prosecutrix inside the room. At that time, her son was
in a different place. Thereupon, she immediately informed her other family
members. Thereupon, her family members came and somehow entered the room
from the backside and rescued her daughter the prosecutrix. Thereupon, the
accused told that this time he will openly sexually abuse her daughter the
prosecutrix. He stated that now he will openly and in front of people sleep with

her daughter the prosecutrix. When her daughter the prosecutrix was kept inside
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

the room by the accused, before she was rescued, she was screaming from
inside the room and begging for her rescue saying that otherwise she will die.
She was also screaming that she would commit suicide. On some occasions also,
her daughter the prosecutrix had attempted suicide including attempt to suicide
by slashing her wrists, due to which she had to undergo four stitches on her
wrist. On one occasion, she attempted suicide by hanging; on another occasion

she attempted suicide by trying to jump into a pond.

9. When the accused first started sexual harassment upon her daughter the
prosecutrix, she was aged about 12 years. That at the moment (at the time of
deposition), she was aged about 20 years. This witness further stated that she
was taken to the court for recording her statement before the Magistrate. Exhibit
1 is her said statement and Exhibit 1(1), 1(2), 1(3), 1(4) and 1(5) are her

signatures thereon.

10. In cross-examination, this witness stated that regarding this incident, she
had not informed other persons out of shame. She had only informed one of her
sisters-in-law — Pabitri Begum. She further stated that on the day of the last
incident on 22/06/2018, upon hearing the cry of her daughter the prosecutrix she
went to her room as stated earlier and she found the accused grabbing her and
trying to harass her sexually. At that time he was wearing a Gamosa and her
daughter the prosecutrix was wearing a short skirt. She denied having falsely
stated that - the accused, her husband used to commit sexual harassment upon
her daughter the prosecutrix; that the accused her husband tried to commit
sexual intercourse upon her daughter, the prosecutrix. She also denied having
lodged a false case upon the accused due to some enmity over land transactions

with the accused.

11. PW-2, the prosecutrix stated in her deposition that she is the informant of
this case. Exhibit 2 is the ejahar lodged by her, where Exhibit 2(1) and 2(2) are
her signatures. She stated that the accused is her father. That on 22/06/2018,
after having her meal, she had gone to bed. Thereupon, the accused went to her
room. He was giving her vulgar signs ( Os/i/ Ingit). He touched her body in wrong
way and gagged her mouth. She was unable to shout. He tried to force her to

sleep with him. Thereupon, after struggling for some time, she called out her
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

mother and told her to see what he was doing. When she shouted, to call her
mother, the accused pulled her by her hair and threw her on the ground. When
her mother came and asked her why he was doing and told that she would not
tolerate any more and would inform other family members. Thereupon, he pulled
her mother by her hair, threw her on the ground, beat her with iron rod and also
beat her with a plastic chair and he also stamped her with his feet on her chest.
Then he pushed out her mother from the house. He closed the grill and kept the

prosecutrix inside the house.

12. Thereafter, he again gave the prosecutrix vulgar signs (Os/i/ Ingit) and
tried to commit rape upon her forcefully. After sometime, her Jetha/ & family
members reached and they opened the door of the room from the backside and
rescued her. Thereafter, she along with the family members went to the police

station to lodge the case. The police recorded her statement.

13. PW-2 the prosecutrix further stated in her evidence that since she
reached the stage of Class VI, from about 6-7 years back (prior to deposition), he
has been harassing her sexually. He would touch her body wrongly; he would
also touch her private parts. He has been doing these things regularly. That she
has been reporting this to her mother, her mother has told her that what to do
about it as it also involved their reputation and was a matter of shame. The
sexual harassment and other things mentioned, done by her father were also
noticed and seen by her mother but whenever she used to say something the
accused used to assault her. That the accused, her father has been trying like
this to commit sexual intercourse upon her, but he has not been successful in
doing so. Her father, the accused has been sexually abusing and harassing her

like this for 6-7 years.

14. She stated that Exhibit 3 is her statement before the magistrate, where
Exhibit 3(1), 3(2) and 3(3) are her signatures.

15. During this period of sexual abuse and harassment over the years, on
many occasions, the accused, her father used to sleep naked with her. Due to
the sexual abuse and harassment upon the prosecutrix, she had attempted to

commit suicide on several occasions. On one occasion, she had tried to kill
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

herself by slashing her wrist and she sustained several stitches (the witness
shows the mark on her hand); on two occasions, she tried to commit suicide by
hanging from the ceiling fan; on another occasion she tried to commit suicide by

taking poison.

16. PW-2 further stated that when the accused first started sexually abusing

and harassing her, she was aged about 13-14 years of age.

17. In cross-examination, she stated that on 22/06/2018, she was aged 20
years. That her father/accused used to do a job and he retired from job and

came back home in 2012.

18. The prosecutrix stated in cross examination that she did not state before
the police and Magistrate that — the accused touched her private parts; when her
mother seeing the sexual abuse upon her tried to prevent her, she was beaten;

he used to sleep naked with her; that she tried to commit suicide several times.

19. She denied that her father the accused did not use to commit sexual
abuse and harassment upon her for since about 6-7 years prior to lodging of the
instant case. She also denied that on 22/06/2018, the accused did not try to grab
her and commit sexual act upon her while she had gone to bed after taking
meal. She denied that on the said date, the accused did not give her vulgar signs
and denied that on that day he did not gag her mouth or that he did not try to

forcefully sleep with her.

20. She denied that she falsely stated that the accused had assaulted her and

her mother with regard to the incidents.

21. The prosecutrix denied in cross-examination that there was any land
dispute between her mother and father. She also denied that she had lodged a
false case upon the accused due to some enmity over land transactions of her

mother with the accused.

22. jPW-3, Dr. Ramendra Kr. Mahanta stated in his deposition that on
22.06.2018, while working as Senior M & HO, Morigaon Civil Hospital, Morigaon,
he had examined Sayera Begum, aged 37 years, W/o Md. Jahir Ali of village
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

Jaluguti. On examination, no injury was detected. However, there was complaint
of pain on left shoulder. He proved as Ext. 4 the Medical Report pertaining to the
aforesaid examination and Ext.(1) as his signature thereon. In cross-examination
by the learned defence, he stated that in case of assault by iron rod usually some

injuries would be seen.

23. PW-4, Musstt. Arfa Begum stated in her deposition that the prosecutrix is
her niece (Bhagin Suwali) and the accused was her brother-in-law (Bhon/-juwai).
She further stated that for 7-8 years, the accused has been sexually harassing
the prosecutrix. It was told to her from time to time by the prosecutrix and her
mother. On the day of the incident, she was informed by someone that the
situation in the house of the prosecutrix was very bad, where upon she along
with her son went to their house. There, she saw that mother was outside the
house within the grill and there was crying going on inside the house. From the
nature of the crying of the prosecutrix that she heard from inside the house, she
could make out that the situation was very bad and shameful. Subsequently, the
prosecutrix was brought out of the house and she was crying and was not able
to express much. Thereafter, they went to the police station, along with the

prosecutrix where the prosecutrix lodged the case.

In cross-examination, she stated that the mother of the prosecutrix, who
is her sister, had got married to the accused about 20-22 years back. She further
stated that she did not remember the exact date of the incident and that on the
day of the incident, upon getting the information when she went to the house of
the accused, it might have been around 10 PM in the night. She stated that she
did not state before the police — that for several years, the accused has been
sexually harassing the prosecutrix. It was told to me from time to time by the
prosecutrix and her mother. She further stated that she did not know whether
there was any dispute between the accused and the mother of the prosecutrix
with regard to any land sale at Morigaon town near Morigaon Mahila Mehfil. This
witness denied having falsely stated that - for 7-8 years, the accused has been
sexually harassing the prosecutrix. This witness further stated that when she
reached the house of the accused on the day of the incident, she saw injuries on

the body of her sister the mother of the prosecutrix. The injuries were swollen
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

and blackened injuries on arms, shoulder and thigh. She further stated that the
accused was involved in taking money from people with promise of giving job in
Army, but denied that her sister was also involved. She stated that she did not
tell others about being informed by the mother of the prosecutrix and the
prosecutrix that the accused was harassing the prosecutrix sexually for the last
7-8 years and that she did not tell out of shame. She denied in cross-examination
that a false case has been lodged upon the accused, by the prosecutrix and her
mother to grab his property. She denied the defence suggestion that the accused

has not committed any sexual harassment upon the prosecutrix.

24. PW-5 Dr. Shamim Ahmed stated in her deposition that on 24.06.2018,
while she was working as M & HO-I at Morigaon Civil Hospital, she conducted
examination upon the victim/prosecutrix, escorted by WHG, Minu Devi, in
connection with Mikirbheta PS Case No. 226/2018, upon examination, she found
as follows: Identification mark -a black mole at middle of chest. Height was 5
feet 5 inch. Weight 49 KG, Teeth -upper 14, lower 14. In her opinion, she stated
that (I) there was no evidence of any recent sexual intercourse (II) vaginal swab
for sperm detection was advised but the victim did not go through (III) There
was no any injury mark on her body or private parts. She further opined that
Clinically, the age of the patient was about 22 years at the time of examination.
She proved as Exhibit 5 her medical report and as Exhibit 5 (1) her signature
thereon. In cross-examination by the learned defence, she stated that the X-ray
for age determination of the victim girl was advised but was not done by the
victim/prosecutrix. She further stated in cross-examination that if a victim is
sexually assaulted by a person physically or attempted to do so, there might be

some injury marks on the body, including private parts of the victim.

25. | PW-6 Mohidul Islam stated in his deposition that the prosecutrix was his
cousin sister and the accused was her father. He stated that he knew that the
accused used to behave inappropriately with the prosecutrix and touched her on
her private parts and that this has been going on since about 6-7 years. He
further stated that the mother of the prosecutrix who is his aunt had informed
him that the prosecutrix had attempted suicide on several occasions and that he

had done independent enquiry on that and found it to be true. He further stated
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

that on the day of the last incident before lodging of the case, he got a
telephone call that there was some quarrel in the house of the accused and that
the mother of the prosecutrix told him over phone that they should save her or
as otherwise her modesty would be outraged, whereupon he went there. He
further stated that some of the relatives of the prosecutrix came out of the house
from the back door and that thereafter they could make out the incident from
her gestures and body language and that she stated in a crying way that if her
father stays at home she would commit suicide, whereupon he advised her to

lodge a case and accordingly they came to the police station.

In cross-examination by the defence, he stated that as per his knowledge
the accused used to have continuous quarrels with his wife due to his regular
taking of alcohol. He further stated that after they shifted to Jaluguti, he came to
know from his aunt over telephone about their quarrels as well as about the
sexual harassment of the prosecutrix by the accused. He stated that however he
did not share or discuss this with his family members at home though his family
knew about the issue and that he had informed his aunt to inform the police.
This witness further stated in cross-examination that he heard about the issue of
sexual harassment of the prosecutrix by the accused only after they shifted to
the place Jaluguti and that prior to that, he had not heard about the sexual
harassment. He further stated that after they shifted to Jaluguti, he came to
know about the sexual harassment going on for 6-7 years. This witness further
stated in his cross-examination that on the day of the last incident, he reached
the place of occurrence at about 9:30/10 PM and had found his aunt in a
distressed condition with swelling in her face. He also saw some swelling on one
of the hands of the prosecutrix. This witness stated in his cross-examination that
he did not remember exactly whether he had stated before the police that he
also knew that the accused used to behave inappropriately with the prosecutrix
and that he used to touch her on private parts and that this has been going on
since about 6-7 years. He denied having falsely stated about the sexual
harassment and bad behaviour of the accused with the prosecutrix; about his
touching her private parts; about these going on for six — seven years; about
being informed by his aunt that the prosecutrix had attempted suicide on several

occasions which he found to be true upon independent enquiry. He denied in
10
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

cross-examination that the accused and the mother of the prosecutrix were
having a dispute over property and denied that a false case has been lodged

upon the accused by the prosecutrix and her mother to grab his property.

26. PW-7 Sh. Ibrahim Khalilulla Kabir is the investigating officer of the case
and he stated in his deposition that on 23.06.2018, while he was working as OC
of Mikirbheta police station, he received an ejahar lodged by the victim girl
whereupon, Mikirbheta PS Case No. 226/2018 was registered u/s
376/511/325/307 IPC and he took up the investigation of the same. He examined
the informant at the police station and two other persons at the police station.
Thereafter, he went to the place of occurrence, where upon being shown by the
informant he inspected the same and drew a sketch map thereof. Ext. 6 is the
said sketch map and Ext. 6(1) is his signature thereon. On the next day, he went
to the house of the uncle of the victim, Md. Idris Ali, and examined other
witnesses there. He seized some documents kept at that place by victim and
again gave them in Zimma to the victim. According to the document — Admit
Card, the date of birth of the victim is 20.02.1997. Ext. 7 is the seizure list
pertaining to the aforesaid seizure and Ext. 7(1) is her signature thereon.
Thereafter, he forwarded the victim to the Morigaon Civil Hospital, Morigaon for
medical examination and he also forwarded her to the Magistrate for recording
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Subsequently, he arrested the accused and
forwarded him to the court for remand. On 26.06.2018, he forwarded the mother
of the victim to the court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Thereafter,
he collected the medical reports of the victim and also her mother, who was
medically examined earlier. Upon completion of investigation and upon finding
materials he submitted charge-sheet against the accused Jahir Hussain u/s
376/511 IPC r/w Sec. 10/ 12 of POCSO Act 2012.

In cross-examination by the learned defence, this witness stated that he
got information regarding the incident at 3.30 PM on 23.06.2018 and that he
received the said information in the form of an ejahar in which the date and time
of the incident is mentioned as 22.06.2018 at 10 PM. After registration of the
case on 23.06.2018, he went to the place of occurrence at 5 PM where some

family members of the informant such as mother of the victim, the victim herself,
11
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

her cousin brother were present. He wanted to examine some neighborhood
persons, but none were forthcoming. He further stated in cross-examination that
on 24.06.2018, at 11.10 AM, he forwarded the victim to Morigaon Civil Hospital
for Medical Examination, but he has not forwarded the mother of the victim for
any medical examination. This witness denied in cross-examination that he did
not make any efforts to record the Section 161 Cr.P.C statements of any
neighborhood persons. He denied that the date of occurrence is actually
21.06.2018. This witness stated that PW-1, Suyara Begum did not state the exact
words before him that - since about 13-14 years age of her daughter the
prosecutrix, the accused used to sexually harass her. He used to touch her body,
tear her clothes, become naked before her, embrace her after becoming naked.
Her daughter the prosecutrix used to cry before her and say that she would die

by consuming poison.

He also stated that PW-1, Suyara Begum did not state before him that - the
accused told that in this time he would openly sexually abuse her daughter the
prosecutrix. He stated that now he would openly and in front of people sleep
with her daughter the prosecutrix. When her daughter the prosecutrix was kept
inside the room by the accused, before she was rescued, she was screaming
from inside the room and begging for her rescue saying that otherwise she would
die. She was also screaming that she would commit suicide. This witness also
stated that PW-1 Suyara Begum did not state before him that the accused had
committed sexual-intercourse upon the prosecutrix. He stated that he did not
seize from the place of occurrence any broken plastic chair, iron rod, etc. This
witness stated that he did not know as to whether there was any land dispute

between accused and informant side.

27. DW-1, Md. Nur Ali stated in his deposition that the prosecutrix was his
niece and the accused was his younger brother and that the accused used to
work in the Army and he had retired in 2009. He further stated in his evidence
that neither he nor his family members had heard about any illicit relation by the
accused upon the prosecutrix as alleged in this case. He further stated that it is
completely false that the accused had been trying to commit illicit sexual

relationship with his daughter — the prosecutrix for a long time. He further stated
12
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

that the instant case has been lodged upon the accused to oust him from the
property and that the wife of the accused along with some other persons had

taken money from several persons with a promise to give job in the Army.

In cross-examination by the learned prosecution, this witness stated that
his niece — the prosecutrix was a bright student from childhood and she had a
good academic record and that at present she was doing her masters. He further
stated that generally children take pride in their parents and that the girl
normally would understand that if there was any rumour about her having any
illicit relation with her father, she would have a lot of difficulty in the future in
matters of marriage. He further stated that generally, a daughter would not
lodge a case against her father alleging illicit sexual relation. He further stated
that the prosecutrix bears a good moral character. He denied that he had

deposed falsely.

28. DW-2, Jahir Hussain - the accused adducing evidence stated in his
deposition that the prosecutrix was his daughter and elder child and that
presently she was aged 22 years. He further stated that he also has a son who is
presently aged 17 years. He further stated that he retired from Army service on
31.12.2012. He further stated in his evidence that when his daughter — the
prosecutrix was studying in her secondary College, he used to bring her to
college and take her back and that during her graduation also, he used to do
this. He further stated that he used to have good relations with his daughter and
son and that prior to this, they had not filed any case upon him. He further
stated in his deposition that after lodging of the case upon him, he was arrested
by the police and that he denied the allegations against him before the police. He
stated that he had neither committed any sexual harassment upon his daughter
— the prosecutrix nor given her any vulgar signs. The accused stated in his
evidence that the instant case had been falsely lodged upon him and that the
allegations were false. He further stated that his daughter had filed this case at
the instigation of some other persons, probably that of her mother’s family. He
further stated in his evidence that prior to the lodging of the case, he used to
always wash the clothes of his daughter whenever she was at home. He denied

that his daughter — the prosecutrix had attempted suicide over any sexual
13
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

harassment upon her by him. He stated that he is an ex-serviceman and that he
was not involved in this case. In cross-examination by the learned prosecution,
the accused as DW-1 stated that his daughter — the prosecutrix is very
meritorious and that she has very good academic records. He also stated that his
daughter — the prosecutrix has a good moral character and that she did not have
casual relations with boys. The accused denied that he had falsely stated that he
had not committed any sexual harassment upon his daughter — the prosecutrix
or given her any vulgar signs. He denied that the prosecutrix had attempted
suicide several times due to any sexual harassment by him upon her. He denied

that he had deposed falsely.

29. The prosecutrix as PW-2 has clearly stated in her evidence that since she
reached the stage of Class- VI, about 6/7 years prior to her deposition, the
accused, who is her own father has been harassing her sexually. The said
testimony has also remained unshaken in cross-examination. The same has been
corroborated by her mother as PW-1 who stated that such harassment started
from 13/14 years of age of the prosecutrix. The prosecutrix stated about her
attempting to commit suicide which is not only corroborated by her mother but
also by her cousin brother, PW-6. The testimony of sexual harassment has also

been corroborated by her aunt, PW-4.

30. It is clear from the evidence of the prosecutrix, her mother and her aunt
that such incident had not been revealed initially due to shame which is natural
behavior by the victim side. The prosecutrix, her mother, her aunt and cousin
brother had clearly denied the defence suggestion that false case has been

lodged upon the accused over any property dispute.

31. During deposition, the prosecutrix had also shown the mark on her hand
while attempting suicide by slashing her wrist. The details regarding sexual

harassment deposed by the prosecutrix has also been narrated above.

32. On the basis of the evidence on record, especially the evidence of the
prosecutrix, it is proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused committed
sexual harassment upon his own daughter for several years prior to her

deposition at a time when she was still in her tender age of 13/14 years of age.
14
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

Therefore, I find the accused guilty of having committed the offence of sexual
harassment defined u/s 11 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012, which is punishable u/s 12 of the Act with imprisonment of either

description upto three years and also liable to fine.

33. The accused has also been charged u/s 10 of the Protection of Children
from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which punishes the offence of aggravated
sexual assault. In this context, Section 9(n) of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 provides that sexual assault upon a child by relatives
through blood, adoption, marriage, guardianship etc. would constitute
aggravated sexual assault. The prosecutrix has stated in her evidence that the
accused would touch her body wrongly; touch her private parts; sleep naked
with her and she has reiterated the same in her cross-examination. Her mother
has also stated that the accused would touch the body of the prosecutrix, tear

her clothes and embrace her after becoming naked.

34. PW-6, the cousin brother of the prosecutrix has also corroborated the
same and stated that he knew that the accused used to do inappropriate
behavior of touching her private parts. The aforesaid testimony regarding sexual

assault by the accused upon his own daughter has remained unshaken.

35. On the basis of the evidence on record, I come to the considered view
and finding that the accused has been committing sexual assault upon the
prosecutrix- his own daughter and accordingly, he has committed the offence

punishable u/s 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

36. The accused has also been prosecuted for charge u/s 376/511 IPC with
allegation that with regard to the alleged incident on 22.06.2018, he also
attempted to commit rape upon the prosecutrix- his daughter. In this regard, the
prosecutrix has stated in her evidence that on 22.06.2018, the accused gave her
vulgar signs and tried to commit rape upon her forcefully. She has reiterated the
same in her cross-examination that on that day, the accused had grabbed her
and tried to commit sexual act upon her. She has also reiterated in cross-
examination that he gave her vulgar signs and tried to sleep forcefully with her.
Her mother also stated that on that day, the accused had grabbed his daughter

and tried to commit sexual act upon her. In cross-examination, she reiterated
15
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

that the accused tried to commit sexual intercourse upon his daughter. The
testimony of her aunt, PW-4 and cousin brother, PW-6 also lends support to the

testimony of the prosecutrix and her mother about the incident on 22.06.2018.

37. Tocome to any finding of attempt to rape, generally some details on the
part of the prosecutrix regarding the incident may be necessary to ascertain as to
whether any attempt to rape is made out. In this case, the prosecutrix has not
mentioned any details as to how the accused, her father tried to commit rape but
considering the fact that here is a girl who was testifying against her own father
with the allegations of attempting to commit rape, I do not find any reason to
disbelieve the same especially when testimony of her mother lends credence and

support to the same.

38. Consequently, on the basis of the evidence on record, I also come to the
considered finding that the accused tried to commit rape upon the prosecutrix on
that day and he has thereby committed the offence punishable u/s 376/511 IPC.

39. PW-1, the wife of the accused and mother of the prosecutrix has also
stated about the accused having assaulted her on 22.06.2018, when she tried to
prevent the accused from committing sexual act upon the prosecutrix. During
trial, Dr. R. K. Mahanta who examined her adduced evidence as PW-3, during
which he proved Ext. 4, the Medical Report pertaining to the said assault. He has
stated that upon examination no injury was detected. I have perused the said
Medical Report of PW-1.

40. On the basis of the evidence on record, I am of the considered finding
that there is no material to sufficiently prove beyond doubt an offence u/s 323
IPC. Therefore, the accused stands acquitted with regard to the charge u/s 323
IPC.

41. ‘Thus, on the basis of the evidence on record and in view of the above
discussion, accused Md. Zahir Hussain @ Jahir Hussain is hereby convicted u/s
376/511 IPC r/w Section 10/12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.
16
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

ORDER ON SENTENCE

42. Heard the accused/convict and the learned defence counsel on the point

of sentence. The accused has prayed for leniency.

43. In the facts and circumstances, the Court cannot overlook the fact that
the victim is the own daughter of the accused. Therefore, in the given facts and
circumstances, the convict Md. Zahir Hussain @ Jahir Hussain is hereby

sentenced as follows;

(i) The convict is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 5 (Five)
years for his conviction u/s 376/511 IPC.

(ii) The convict is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 5 (Five)
years and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/-, (in default, undergo simple
imprisonment for two months) for his conviction u/s Section 10 of the
POCSO Act, 2012.

(iii) | The convict is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 3
(Three) years and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/-, (in default, undergo simple
imprisonment for two months) for his conviction u/s Section 12 of the
POCSO Act, 2012.

44. All the sentences shall run concurrently.

45. Any period of detention undergone by the convict’ during
investigation/trial shall be set off as against the substantive sentence in

compliance with section 428 of the Cr.P.C.

46. _ His bail bond is cancelled and sureties stand discharged.

47. | Theconvict shall be given a copy of this judgment free of cost.

48. A copy of this judgment and order shall also be sent to the learned

District Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with Section 365 of the Cr.P.C.

49. Further, in exercise of power under Section 357-A Cr.P.C. and the Assam

Victim Compensation Scheme, the District Legal Service Authority, Morigaon shall
17

POCSO Case No. 57/2018

award adequate and suitable victim compensation to the prosecutrix who is the
victim of the crime, for her rehabilitation. Interim compensation, if any, already
granted to the victim shall be adjusted. For this purpose, a copy of this judgment
and order shall be sent to the learned Secretary, District Legal Service Authority,

Morigaon for doing the needful.

50. The instant Special (POCSO) case stands disposed of on the aforesaid

terms.

Given under my hand and seal on this the 3 day of September, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by me (P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
(P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
18
POCSO Case No. 57/2018

APPENDIX
Prosecution Witnesses:
PW-1 : Musstt. Suyara Begum.
PW-2  : Prosecutrix.
PW-3 : Dr. Ramendra Kr. Mahanta.
PW-4 : Musstt. Arfa Begum.
PW-5 : Dr. Shamim Ahmed.
PW-6 : Md. Mohidul Islam.
PW-7 : Md. Ibrahim Khalilulla Kabir.
Defence Witness:
DW-1 : Md. Nur Ali.
DW-2 : Md. Zahir Hussain.

Prosecution Exhibits:

1. Ext. 1 : Section 164 Cr.PC statement of PW-1.

2. Ext. 2 : Ejahar.

3. Ext. 3 : Section 164 Cr.PC statement of the prosecutrix.
4. Ext. 4&5 : Medical Reports.

5. Ext. 6 : Sketch map.

6. Ext. 7 : Seizure list.

7. Ext. 8 : Charge sheet.

Defence Exhibits:

Nil.

Dictated and corrected by me (P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
(P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
