 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 57 (T) of 2017
U/s 4 of the POCSO Act
The State of ASSAM — haa eacececceeeeeeeeeeenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Nazrul Ali @ Tikil
S/o- Momtaj Ali
R/o- Hansara Chariali
P.S- Doomdooma
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM a... eee eee eeeeeee eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,
Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the Complainant
Munna Kr. Singh,

Advocate@  —______iinaeeaeectesentenees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 01/09/2018

Date of Judgment: 01/09/2018

U D GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. It is alleged in the ejahar that on 12/05/2017, at about
5 pm, the daughter of the informant was kidnapped by the
accused. In the ejahar, it has been stated that the victim was
17 years old at that time. The ejahar was lodged by the
mother of the victim.

2. During the period of investigation, the victim girl gave
a statement u/s 164 Cr.PC, wherein she has stated that she
was 17 years old at the time of the occurrence and she was in
love with the accused. She further stated that she had eloped
with the accused on her own and converted to Islam and
thereafter married the accused according to Islamic rituals.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

3. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim girl?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as six witnesses,
including the victim. The defence plea is total denial. | have
carefully gone through the prosecution evidences.
5. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up
the evidence of the victim. She has stated in her evidence that
she was in love with the accused and therefore, she had
eloped with the accused and thereafter married him after

embracing Islam.

6. The mother of the victim girl, who had lodged the
ejahar before police has stated in her evidence that her
daughter is presently staying with the accused and now she is
seven months pregnant. She has stated that she has accepted
the accused to be her son in law. At this stage, | find that the
other witnesses have become irrelevant for the present case.

ds There is no doubt that in the instant case, the victim
was a consenting part to the act of the accused. The accused
herein is charged with the offence that he had committed
penetrative sexual assault upon the victim. The word "assault"
has not been defined in the POCSO Act. Therefore, it would be
fruitful to delve into the section 351 of the Indian Penal Code.
Section 351 of the I.P.C defines the word "Assault" like this:-

"Whoever makes any gesture, or any _ preparation
intending or knowing it to be likely that such gesture or prepa-
ration will cause any person present to apprehend that he who
makes that gesture or preparation is about to use criminal
force to that person, is said to commit an assault."

8. In POCSO Act also, it has been stated that whoever
commits sexual assault shall be punishable.

9. The offences under POCSO Act are criminal offences
and therefore, the intention to commit offence is an important
point for consideration. In this case, the accused has married a
17 years old girl and according to religious rituals and
thereafter the mother of the victim accepted him as her son in
law. This fact clearly shows that the accused never had the
intention to commit an offence under POCSO Act. Under the
circumstance, | find that the offence u/s 4 of the POCSO Act
has not been proved against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt.

ORDER

10. In the result, the accused Tikil Ali @ Nazrul Ali is found
not guilty and accordingly the accused is acquitted from this

Case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
lst day of September, 2018.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia

A P PEN ODI =X
PROSECUTION WITNESSES
1. PW1 - Smti Ritu Moni Das

2. PW2 - Smti Geeta Sahu
3. PW3

4. PW4

5. PW5

6. PW6

Smti Krishna Barman
Sri Dipak Das
Dr. Ashma Ghaznavi

Sri Chandan Das

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1-
2. Ext. 2-
3. Ext. 3-
4. Ext. 4-

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Statement u/s 164 Cr.PC
Ejahar
Medical report

Sonography report

Special Judge

Tinsukia
