1
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.
Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 07 OF 2015

Under Section 366(A) read with
section 4 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012

Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-versus-
Shahidul Islam... Accused.
APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Mr. A. Kayem, learned PP.
For the accused : Mr. L. Ali, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 12-10-2015, 21-01-2016, 18-02-2016
01-04-2016, 01-03-2017 & 13-07-2017
Argument heard on : 25-08-2017
Judgment delivered on : 08-09-2017.

UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that on 09-07-2015 one Fazar Ali
lodged an FIR alleging that accused Shahidul Islam for last one year loved
the victim and assured her to marry. He even made cohabitation with her.
On 06-07-2015 at about 3 AM,the accused forcibly took her assuring that
he would marry her. On the same day also he made cohabitation with her.
But on their way they were apprehended at Mandia Market by the local
people and informed his father Haidar Ali and brother Jahurul Hoque.
2

Assuring to perform the marriage between the parties, they took accused
Shahidul Islam. But they did not perform the marriage between accused
Shahidul Islam and the victim. They even threatened to kill the victim and
arranged the marriage of Shahidul Islam with other girl.
2. On the basis of the FI.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against accused person Shahidul Islam under section 366(A)I.P.C
read with section 4 of POCSO Act.
3. Accused person appeared before this court, copies were furnished
to him and after hearing both the parties charge was framed against the
accused person under section 366(A)I.P.C read with section 4 of POCSO
Act. Charge was read over and clearly explained to the accused person to
which he has pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.
4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined as many as ten
witnesses including the 10 and MO. The accused person declines to
adduce evidence.
5. Points for determination:-
(1) | Whether the accused person on 06.07.2015 at about 3.00 P.M. at 3
No. Bardalani L.P.School within the jurisdiction of Baghbar Police Station,
kidnapped Musst. Nilima Khatun, aged about 16 years, a minor girl, the
niece of the informant Fazar Ali with intent that she might be compelled to
marry against her will or in order that she might be forced or seduced to
illicit intercourse with any other person including the accused ?
(2) | Whether the accused person on the same date, time and place
committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl, Musst. Nilima
Khatun, aged about 16 years ?

Decision and reasons thereof:
7. The allegation against the accused person is that he kidnapped the
victim at 3.00 AM of 06-07-2015 and committed rape on her. None of the
prosecution witnesses had seen the occurrence. Hence the vital witness of
this case is the victim herself. Though in the FIR it is stated that the victim
3

and the accused were apprehended at Mandia market by the local people,
but the informant in his cross examination has stated that the victim was
not recovered from the possession of the accused person. She was
recovered near a bridge. He has no grievance against the accused person.
8. The victim as PW4 has in her cross examination has stated that
accused Shahidul did not kidnap her forcibly. While she was going to the
house of the accused she was restrained by Majibur and her maternal
uncle took her from the house of Majibur. The accused person did not do
any illicit act with her. At the time of occurrence she was aged about 18
years. She read upto LP School. She made the statement before the
Magistrate as tutored by the villagers and the police. Their Samaj wanted
to perform her marriage with the accused person. But as the accused
refused, the Samaj people filed the case through her maternal uncle
against the accused person. The statements which are made in the FIR
are totally false.

The other prosecution witnesses have clearly stated that they do
not know about the occurrence. They only heard that the victim was
recovered at village Bhatkuchi.

9. From the above discussions of the evidences of the prosecution
witnesses, it is found that the victim has not made a single whisper
against the accused person. Rather she has stated that the allegation
which are narrated in the FIR are totally false. She had further stated that
the Samaj filed the case through her maternal uncle as the accused
person refused the proposal of the Samaj to marry the victim.

10. That being the position it is clear that the prosecution has totally
failed to prove any case against the accused person. Therefore the
accused person is acquitted and set at liberty.

11. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
extended for another period of six months from the date of this judgment
under section 437-A Cr.P.C.
4

12. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati High
Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365
Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 8'day of
September,2017.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
APPENDIX

(A)Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1 :Medical Report
Ext.1(1) :Sign. of PW1.
Ext.2 ‘Statement of PW4 under section 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext.2(1)
& 2(2)  :Signs. of PW4.
Ext.3 :GDE Entry(Extract copy).
Ext.3(1) :Sign. of Nripendra Sarmah
Ext.4 ‘Sketch map.
Ext.4(1) :Sig. of Nripendra Sarmah.
Ext.5 ‘Sketch map .
Ext.5(1) :Sig. of Nripendra Sarmah.
Ext.6 :Charge Sheet.
(B)Defence Exhibits:Nil.
(C)Exhibits produced by witnesses:Nil.
(D)Court Exhibits:Nil.
(E)Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 :Dr. Bharati Das M & HO-I, FAA Medical College & Hospital
Barpeta
P.W.2 :Fazar Ali.
P.W.3 :Surjan Nessa.

P.W.4 : Nilima Khatun.
P.W.5 : Munnaf Ali

P.W.6 : Hazrat Ali.
P.W.7 : Sanidul Islam.
P.W.8 : Majibar Rahman.
P.W.9 : Md. Ashu Minya.

PW.10 =: Sri Nripendra Sarma Attached officer at Pathsala outpost.
(F)Defence witnesses:Nil.
(G)Court witnesses:Nil.
Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta
