1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present : Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
Special Case No. 120/2017 corresponding to
GR Case No.65/2018 & Chowkihola Police Station
Case No. 01/2018
Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Raju Rai

Name of informant/complainant:
Smti Tulsi Chetri

D/O Sri Dilip Chetri
Village: Khatkhati

P.S : Chowkihola
District: Karbi Anglong.

Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Raju Rai
Son of Sri Chandra Bahadur Rai
Vill-Gautam Basti
PS. Khatkhati
Dist. Karbi Anglong

Advocates appeared

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defense : Shri Uttam Paul
Argument heard on : 01.02.2019

Judgment pronounced & delivered on: 12.02.2019
2|Page

JUDGMENT

1. It is a case of sexual penetrative assault alleged to have

been committed by the accused person.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that 05-09-2016 the
informant-Smti Tulsi Chetri lodged an ejahar with Khatkhati Police Station
stating inter alia that on 04-09-2016 at 7-30 PM her victim daughter
having age of 14 years went out from the house to somewhere. On
search for whole night her whereabouts could not be traced out.
Neighbourer noticed her victim daughter on road going with the accused.
The accused was not found in their house. It was suspected that the
accused took away her minor daughter. On receipt of the written ejahar
Khatkhati Police Station registered a Criminal Case under section 366A
IPC and started investigation. On completion of investigation, the charge
was submitted under section 366 A IPC read with section 4 of the POSCO

Act against the accused person. Hence the prosecution has come up.

4. On completion of appearance of the accused person
before this Court, trial was started. Having very carefully gone through
submissions of learned lawyers of both sides as well as case diary, this
Court found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person
committed the offense U/S 4 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, the charge
was framed. The particular of the charged offense was duly read over
and explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.

5. During trial, Prosecution side examined as many as 6(six)
witnesses including the informant. Statement of the accused person was
recorded U/S 313 of Cr.P.C Defense declined to adduce evidence. Plea of

defense is of total denial.
3|Page

6. Point for determination

(i)Whether the accused person on 04.09.2016 at about 7-30 PM at the
back side of his house situated at Chationa Joyram Rabidas Gaon under
Chowkihola PS committed sexual assault (Physical contact) on Smti.
Manshi Urang aged about 11% years without penetration and that he
thereby committed an offense punishable U/S 8 of the POCSO Act ?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

8. I have very carefully gone through verbal arguments advanced by
the learned counsels of both sides as well as evidence on record. At the
very outset, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused
person has contended that the prosecution has miserably failed doubts.
On the other hand, the learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting
the aforesaid submission has submitted that the prosecution has
succeeded in establishing its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions, it would be
appropriate to give a glance at evidence record.

9. | PW-1 is Smt. Tulshi Chetri who is the informant. She has stated in
her evidence that the occurrence took place on 04-09-2016. On the day
of occurrence her victim daughter went out for practice for cultural
program to be held on Teacher’s day. While the victim did not come
home back, they started searching her. Later on she came to know that
the accused took away her. To that effect she lodged a written ejahar
with Khatkhati Police Station. Ext-1 is her ejahar. On 07-09-2016 the
victim and the accused were recovered by the police from a place of
Naga Land. Police took the victim to Hospital and got her statement
recorded in the court.

10. PW-2 is Sri Dnruba Chetry who has stated that the occurrence took
place in the year 2016. After four days of the occurrence the informant

and police came to his house. On being asked he informed the police
4|Page

that he knew the accused and the victim. On that day he came to know
that the accused took away the victim. There after he came to know that
on 08-09-2016 the police recovered the victim with the accused.

11. PW-3 is Smt Puja Pradhan who has stated in her evidence that the
occurrence took place about 3 years back. On the day of occurrence, the
victim went out from the house for practice. There after the informant
informed her that the victim had went missing. After 3 days police
managed to recover both victim and accused.

12. PW-4 is Shri Chandra Chetry. According to him the occurrence took
place 2/3 years back. On the day of occurrence the victim went missing
from the house. His house is nearby the house of the victim. After 2 days
of the occurrence he came to know that the victim went missing. At the
time of occurrence the victim was reading in class X.

13. PW-5 is the Medical Officer who examined the victim. According to
her on 08-09-2016 she was attached to Diphu Civil Hospital as Medical
and Health Officer and on that day she examined the victim on being
brought by WPC 550 Promila Rongpipi in connection with Khatkhati P.S
case No. 82/16 under section 366 A IPC and found no violent marks on
her private parts but found signs of penetration in her private parts. Spot
test for pregnancy was faintly positive. Spermatazoa was not detected.
X-ray was done for determination of age. According to her age of the

victim girl was below 16 years. Ext-2 is the Medical Report.

14. PW-6 is the victim who has stated in her evidence that the
occurrence took place on 05-09-2016 while she was reading in class X.
The day of the occurrence was being observed as a teacher day. On the
day of the occurrence she went home back from school lately for which
her mother rebuked and slapped her. Thereafter she out of angry went
out from the house and coming to the road she took the bus heading
towards Horiojon. Getting down the bus she went to the house of her
friend situated therein but she came to the road back again as her friend
was not available in the house. Coming back to the road she found the

accused thereon whom she used to call him “Kokoido”. She narrated the
5|Page

entire episode regarding coming out from the house. Therafter the
accused took her to his uncle’s house as he would not be able to take
her to their house back within 2 days. She stayed 2 days in the uncle
house of the accused. The accused did not met any physical relation with
her. Her mother lodged the case on doubt as she found her sometimes
talking with the accused person over telephone. After 2 days from the
occurrence the Police recovered her from the uncle house of the
accused. Police got her medically examined and her statement recorded

in the court. Ext-3 is her statement.

15. Ext-1 is the FIR which was lodged on the following day of the
occurrence. It has been stated in the Ext-1 that on 04-09-16 at 7.30 pm
the victim who was reading in class 10 went out from the house and
whole night her whereabout couldn't be traced out. During the search it

came to notice that the accused enticed away with the victim.

16. Informant marked as PW-1 is the mother of the victim who has
stated in her FIR that at the time of occurrence victim was 14 years old.
She has also stated in her deposition that at the time of occurrence she
was 14 years old. PW-5 is medical officer who examined the victim on
08-09-2016. Ext-2 is the Medical Report. From the evidence of PW-5 and
Ext-2 it appears that at the time of occurrence victim was below 16 years

in between 14/15 years.

17. PW-6 is the victim. Her evidence also shows that at the time of
occurrence she was reading in class X. Her evidence is totally silent that
during her schooling from beginning to Class X in some classes she
written statement detained. Normally a student reading in class X would
be 15/16 years old. Defence no where has challenged the age of the
victim that at the time of occurrence she was below 18 years. Taking all
aspects into consideration I have comfortably come to conclusion that at
the time of occurrence victim was not more than 16 years. As per section
2(d) of the POCSO Act a person who is below 18 years in called child. In
6|Page

view of the discussions made above it can be said that victim is/was a
child at the time of occurrence.

18. Victim without hesitation has stated in her evidence that the accused
kept her in the house of his uncle situated at Horiojan. Police got her
statement recorded under section 164 CrPC in the court immediate after
her recovery. Ext 3 is said statement. It is very much unfortunate that it
is not possible for me to know the contents of it as it was not written
distinctly. From Ext-2 it appears that while she was got medically
examined signs of penetration in her private parts were found. It is
evident that the victim was under custody of the accused person from
04-09-16 to 07-09-16. Ext-2 is totally silent that on 08-09-16 on
examination of victim recent signs of penetration in her private parts was
found. The victim has clearly stated in her evidence that during her stay
in the house of uncle of the accused person, he did not made physical

intercourse with her.

19. In view of the discussions made above I find that the prosecution
has failed to prove its case under section 4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused person beyond all reasonable doubts. However it has succeeded
establishing its case under section 363 of the IPC against the accused
person.

ORDER

 

20. In the result. I find the accused guilty under section 363 IPC
and accordingly he is convicted.

On the point of sentence the accused is heard and to that
effect his statement is recorded. From his statement it appears
that he is the only earning member of his family. There is no
evidence on record showing that he was convicted earlier by the
court of law. Considering all aspects I do hereby order the accused
to suffer SI for 15 days and to pay fine of Rs. 4000/- i/d SI for 2

months. Set Off his earlier detention period. From the case record
7|Page

it appears that the accused was earlier in the Jail Hazot for more
than 15 days. Let the seized articles be returned to the person
from whom it was seized in due course of law. Accordingly this

case is disposed of on contest.

23. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this 12 February,
2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and corrected by me.

Sessions Judge, Sessions Judge
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
