 

Present: Smti S. Bhuyan
Special Judge
Nalbari.

Special (P) Case No : 40/17
u/s- 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam

-V/s-

Umakanta Barman
S/O-Late Padma Ram Barman
R/o, Vill-Ponar Kaunia

PS-Ghograpar, Dist-Nalbari — aasauucceuneees Accused person
Appearance :-

For the prosecution : Mr. K. Sarma, Special PP

For the defence : Mrs. D. Baruah, Advocate.
Date of evidence : 21/08/19, 30/10/18, 31/10/18,

13/12/18, 22/01/19, 11/09/19
Statement of accused recorded : 24/10/19

Date of Argument : 28/11/19
Judgment Delivered : 12/12/19
UDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution as revealed from the ejahar

lodged by informant vide Ext- 2 is that on 05/08/17 at about 9 pm,
accused persons gave chocolate to his minor daughter Miss 'X'
victim of the case (name changed as the case has been registered
under POCSO Act) and then in way of making love he her dress
and bite on her chest and sexually assaulted the victim.

2. O/C Ghograpar PS on receipt of the ejahar, registered
Ghograpar PS case vide Ghograpar PS case No. 135/17 u/s-376(2)
(i) IPC read with section-4 of the POCSO Act and lynched

investigation. He recorded the statement of victim and informant
Special (P) Case No:40/17 1 of 11
at the police station. Thereafter, he sent the victim to SMK Civil
Hospital for her medical examination and IO of the case visit place
of occurrence, drawn sketch map of the place of occurrence,
recorded statement of other witnesses, seized birth certificate of
the victim girl and then produced her before the court to record
her statement u/s-164 Cr.P.C, arrested the accused, collected the
medical report of victim and after completion of investigation
submitted charge sheet against the accused Umakanta Barman
u/s-376(2)(i) IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Act vide Ext-5.

3. On receipt of the charge sheet my then learned predecessor
took cognizance and after furnishing copies to the accused,
framed charge u/s-4 and 6 of the POCSO Act against the accused
Umakanta Barman and when charges are read over and explained
to the accused he pleaded not guilty and stood for trial and
granted bail.

4. In order to prove the charge against the accused person,
prosecution altogether adduces evidence of 9 no’s of witnesses
including the informant, victim, M/O and |I/O of the case and
exhibited 6 no’s of documents. PW-1, Jonali Barman, PW-2, Miss 'X'
(victim), PW-3, Dilip Barman, PW-4, Sukra Barman, PW-5 Dharma
Barman, PW-6, Junu Barman, PW-7, Minati Hazarika Das, PW-8, Dr.
Doli Gogoi (M/O) and PW-9, Babul Kr. Medhi (I/O). Ext-1, seizure
list, Ext-2, Ejahar, Ext-3 Medical Report, Ext-4 radiological report,
Ext-5 charge-sheet, Ext-6 sketch map of the place of occurrence.
After closures of the evidence of the prosecution, statement of the
accused Umakanta Barman recorded u/s-313 Cr.P.C and accused
plea is of total denial however, he declined to adduce evidence in
support of his plea of denial.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATIONS ARE:-

(i) Whether accused Umakanta Barman committed penetrative
sexual assault upon Miss 'X' ?

Special (P) Case No:40/17 2 of 11
(ii) Whether accused committed aggravated penetrative sexual
assault upon Miss 'X', as defined under section 5 (Il) of the POCSO
Act ?

Argument

5. | have heard argument of learned counsel for both sides. It
has been argued by learned Special PP that prosecution beyond all
reasonable doubt established the case of the prosecution and
minor contradiction available in the testimonies of PWs which is
ignorable and submitted that in offence of rape and sexual assault
on woman and child there may be delay in lodging the ejahar but
that does not defect and damage the prosecution case.

6. Refuting the same learned defence counsel made
submission that there is major contradiction in the statement of
PW-1,mother; PW-5, father with victim of the case and there is
sharp contradiction in the statement of mother and father of the
child with regard to presence of the accused at the house of the
informant. It is stated by PW-1 when her daughter disclosed the
incident, her husband not present but PW-5 her husband stated
victim disclosed incident to him and accused left his house after
he enters in the house. But wife evidence is that she enter into the
room after washing the utensils and asked her daughter if
anything happened to her daughter and her victim daughter
disclosed the incident and at that time her husband was not
present and this is a major contradiction in the statement of PW-1
and PW-5. Learned counsel further submitted section 6 of the
POCSO Act is not at all attracted as accused is not the relative of
victim. Learned counsel further submitted if accused has inserted
his penis into the vagina of victim and the victim who stated to be
5 years old girl would have sustained some type of injury but
medical report does not shown any injury of her private parts and
therefore section 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act does not attract and
this is a false case lodged against the accused after hatching a

plan for which there was delay in lodging the ejahar and ejahar
Special (P) Case No:40/17 3 of 11
was lodged on 06/08/17 at 7.30 pm that too without any reason
for causing delay and therefore, prosecution case is fatal and story
narrated by the prosecution and testimonies of victim who is child
witness is not believable and caste doubt in the prosecution case.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

 

7. The statement of PW-1 is that accused being co-villagers,
her husband called him khura. PW-2 victim deposed that accused
is their neighbouring people. PW-5 informant of the case in his
cross stated accused Umakanta is not his relative. PW-1 in her
cross stated that accused is not their relative and he is a friend of
her husband. Thus, from the statement of PW-1, PW-2 and PW-5 it
is clear that accused is not their relative.

8. The age of the victim mentioned in the ejahar as 5 years old
girl. Victim on the date of adducing her evidence stated she was 6
years old. Incident took place on 05/08/17 and her statement
recorded on 21/08/18. At the time of recording statement u/s-164
CrPC, she stated her age is 5 years. PW-8, Dr Doli Gogoi examined
victim on 06/08/17 and during medical examination she advised x-
ray for age determination and as per radiological report the
skeletal age of the victim is below 5 yrs. Defence declined to cross
examine her. PW-9 is the I/O of the case. He deposed during
investigation he seized birth certificate of the victim on being
produced by informant. PW-1 & PW-5 stated police seized birth
certificate of their daughter on being produced by PW-5. The copy
of the birth certificate which was seized by I/O vide Ext-1 seizure
list shows date of birth of victim girl as 13/09/12. Age of the victim
as per her birth certificate on the date of incident is 4 years 10
months and 22 days. There is no cross on the point of date of birth
mentioned in the birth certificate of the victim and age of the
victim girl by the defence. Therefore, | have acted upon the age as
mentioned in the date of birth certificate that corroborated
radiological evidence too and from the date mentioned in the date
of birth certificate and radiological evidence pointed age of the

victim on the date of incident is below 5 years.
Special (P) Case No:40/17 4 of 11
9. Now let me decide whether there is penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim girl who is below 12 years as per section 5
clause (n) of the POCSO Act and as defined u/s-3 of the POCSO Act

coming out or not from the evidence on record.

10. PW-1 deposed on the date of incident while she was
preparing dinner at about 9 pm accused came to her house and
told her that he will take dinner at their house. At that time her
victim daughter was studying. She stated they have one room
where one bed is present and her victim daughter was studied on
the said room. Near the bed there is table, and she served dinner
in the said table to the accused. After finishing of the dinner by the
accused, she went to wash her hand and feet in the back side of
her house at tube well and returning back to the room she asked
accused to go to his home and accused left. As her daughter was
sitting on the bed near the accused after finishing of dinner by the
accused, so she asked her daughter after departure of accused
from her house what accused was doing. To that her daughter told
that accused insert his penis to her vagina, bite on her chest, kiss
on her female private parts and gagged her mouth and then her
husband came. After disclosure of the incident to her by her victim
daughter she disclosed incident to her husband and hearing the
incident from her, her husband out of anger run towards the house
of accused and after sometimes her husband returned and told
her that accused asked forgiveness and told that he has
committed mistake. On next morning her husband lodged ejahar.

11. In cross stated she went with her husband to lodge the
ejahar and her husband lodged the ejahar at about 9 am and
police recorded statement of her and her husband at the police
station. At the time of lodging the ejahar, Panikanta Barman, Lohit
Barman, Ananta Kalita and Anjan Barman accompanied them to
the police station. The house of accused is after 7 houses from her
house. House of her 'dewar' (brother-in-law) and khura of her
husband present in the same courtyard and they live with their

family. She have another three years old child. They do not have
Special (P) Case No:40/17 5 of 11
electricity connection at their house. Her husband did not reach
home while accused was taking meal at her house (dinner) and
the wash room is about 10 feet away from her bed room and after
cleaning her hand and feet, she entered into the room after 20
minutes. They have two rooms, in one room they have a bed with
table to take their food and other room is living room where guest
sit and kitchen is near their bed room.

12. PW-2 is the victim of the case. Her evidence is that on the
date of incident accused came to their house. At that time she was
studying. Accused have dinner at their house and her mother went
to clean the utensils after accused taking dinner at their house
and at that time accused did indecent work with her. She deposed
accused insert his penis into her vagina, she sustained pain, he
bite on her chest, kissed on her vagina, thereafter he offered her
chocolate after that her mother came and accused left. She told
incident to her mother when she was asked by her mother. On
next day she come to the police station with her parents and
police prodcued her before the Magistrate to record her statement
u/s-164 CrPC.

13. In cross stated she studied up to 10 pm from evening. Her
sister was also in the bed. She played while studying. Her mother
served dinner to accused on the table present near the bed. Her
father took rice with accused and after taking rice her father went
to attend puja. All the family members take dinner when dinner
served to accused. Her mother disclosed incident to her father
when he came home and her father went in search of accused
with a dao, thereafter, all went to bed to sleep. Her bardeuta came
on next day at their house and none came at night. She denied
that accused left her house after the dinner and did not kiss on her
vagina, bite on her chest, offered her chocolate, insert his penis

into her vagina.

14. Pw-5 is the informant. His evidence is that on 05/08/17
incident took place. He visited the house of Sukra Barman for

Narayan puja at about 7-8 pm and returned home at about 8.10
Special (P) Case No:40/17 6 of 11
pm with his brother Dilip barman and coming home noticed
accused Umakanta Barman sitting in their courtyard. He gave
prasad to him and told him to have dinner at their house.
Thereafter both of them take bhat (dinner). After having dinner he
goes outside to urinate. On road meet Girin and talk with Girin and
after 10/15 minutes he returned home and find Umakanta Barman
at his house. When he entered in to his house accused came out.
He deposed when he reached home, his wife was cleaning utensils
at the tube well and his daughter was present inside the house
and his daughter told that accused gave her chocolate and then
took her on his lap and opening her dress he bites on her chest,
put off her panty and insert accused penis into her vagina. At that
time his wife entered into the room from tube well. Thereafter, his
‘nobou' (wife of his brother) came. His daughter disclosed incident
to her mother. Immediately, he went to the house of Umakanta
and accused seek forgiveness and he returned home. In the next
morning told incident to villagers and village people advised them
to take help of law. So he lodged the ejahar. Ext-2 is the ejahar.

15. In cross stated incident took place within % to 1 hour after
his return home from the puja. They have three rooms and the
room where they take food one bed is present where his daughter
and wife sleeps and his younger daughter was also present in the
said bed.

16. PW-8M.O. stated on examination of the patient Miss 'X', she
found no injury on her body and private parts, hymen was intact
and in her opinion no evidence of recent sexual intercourse. She
examined the patient on 06/8/17 at 9.50 pm.

17. Statement of PW-4 pointed the Narayan puja was performed
at his house on the date of incident and he invited Dnarmakanta
Pw-5, and Dilip PW-3 to the puja and they came to his house at
about 8-9 pm and after 1 hours returned back to their house. PW-3
Dilip and PW-5 informant stated they went to the house of PW-4
Sukra for the Narayan puja and returned home at about 10 pm.

PW-1 stated that her husband went to the house of Sukra with her
Special (P) Case No:40/17 7 of 11
brother in-law for Narayan puja. Pw-1 deposed at that time
accused came to their house. The statement of PW-3 and Pw-5
pointed when they came to their house they noticed accused
Umakanta was sitting at the courtyard of their house and they
offered Prasad. Pw-5 stated he asked Umakanta to take his dinner
at his house. Pw-3 stated Umakanta entered in to the house of
Dharmakanta for taking dinner. The part of Umakanta taking
dinner in the house of informant not denied by the accused. Pw-1
stated that it was accused who told her that he will take his dinner
at their house. She stated accused take dinner alone and she went
to clean herself on the backside of her house after accused
finished his dinner but her daughter PW-2 the victim of the case
and her husband PW-5 stated that PW-5 and accused took dinner
together. PW-1 in her statement stated that her husband came
home when her daughter finished disclosing incident to her. But
statement of PW-2, PW-3 and PW-5 informant pointed that PW-5,
returned home after puja and offered Prasad to Umakanata who
was sitting in their courtyard and PW-5 and accused took dinner
together at his house. The statement of PW-2 and PW-5 is that PW-
5 was present when accused was taking dinner. Pw-5 stated after
finishing his dinner he went to road to urinate where he meet Girin
and after 10/15 minutes he came back and after his entry into the
room accused came out and at that time his wife was at tube well
site. But PW-1, his wife stated after washing her hands and feet
she entered into the room, and she noticed accused was sitting on
the bed near her daughter. But PW-5 evidence pointed when
accused leave his house his wife was cleaning utensils at the tube
well. PW-5 deposed when he entered into the house his daughter
narrated the incident and at that time his wife came and
thereafter his nobou but PW-1 stated she asked her daughter what
accused was doing to that her daughter narrated the incident that
accused bite on her chest, insert his penis in to her vagina and
sexually assaulted her.

18.  PW-6 is the wife of PW-3, nobou of PW-5. Her evidence is
that on the date of incident at about 7 pm she noticed accused at
their courtyard then she entered into her house and after taking

dinner when she went to sleep heard some noise in the courtyard
Special (P) Case No:40/17 8 of 11
of the informant then she came out and when inquired victim told
her that accused did bad work with her and at that moment she
went towards the road and meet Sukra Barman and she informed
Sukra that accused did bad work with the victim.

19. The statement of PW-6 does not pointed that she entered
into the house of pw-5. The statement of PW-1 and PW-5 pointed
their daughter disclosed incident in their room and pw-5 evidence
is while his daughter was telling incident to him his wife was in
tube well cleaning utensils and wife said she entered in to the
room after the work and on asking her daughter she disclosed
incident and she did not state that 'nobou' PW-6 came at that
time. PW-6 evidence also not pointed that she entered into the
room of PW-5 and PW-1. There seems sharp conflict in the
statement of PW-1 and PW-5 on the point of their presence in the
room and their daughter disclosing incident to them. Pw-5
evidence pointed one thing that his daughter disclose incident to
him, at that time his wife was cleaning utensils but his wife stating
that daughter disclosed incident to her and her husband was
absent. And In my opinion this is a major contradiction in their
statement.

20. The victim girl is below 5 years. She stated accused insert
his penis into her vagina and bite on her chest but there is no bite
mark found on her chest. If a penis is inserted into the vagina of a
5 years old girl then she would have sustained injury on her
private part. But this part is also missing in the case.

21. The statement of PW-1, PW-2, Pw-3, PW-4 and PW-5 with
regard to going to the house of accused and then came to his
house in calm and quite and then all goes to sleep and on next
day at about 7.30 pm lodged ejahar give a fishy smell in the
prosecution case which makes prosecution case unbelievable
beyond all reasonable doubt together with the contradictory
statement of PW-1 and PW-5 with regard to their presence and
disclosure of the incident caste doubt in the prosecution case.

Special (P) Case No:40/17 9 of 11
22. In view of the aforesaid discussion, | come to my definite
finding that prosecution evidence is not sufficient enough to hold
accused Umakanta Barman guilty of committing of offence u/s-4
and 6 of the POCSO Act and | hold prosecution failed to bring
home the charge u/s-4 and 6 of the POCSO Act beyond all
reasonable doubt and accused entitled benefit of doubt.

23. Accordingly, accused Umakanta Barman is acquitted from
the charge of section 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act and is set at
liberty.

24. However, his bail bonds remain stands for next 6 (six)
months u/s-437-A CrPC.

Judgment is given under my hand and seal of this court on
this the 12" day of December, 2019.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Nalbari

Dictated & corrected by me

(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Nalbari

Typed by:
Biswajit Bhattacharjya
Copyist

Special (P) Case No:40/17 10 of 11
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witnesses
PW-1, Jonali Barman,
PW-2, Miss 'X' (victim),
PW-3, Dilip Barman,
PW-4, Sukra Barman,
PW-5 Dharma Barman,
PW-6, Junu Barman,
PW-7, Minati Hazarika Das,
PW-8, Dr. Doli Gogoi (M/O)
PW-9, Babul Kr. Medhi (I/O).

B. Defence witness
NIL

C. Prosecution Exhibits
Ext-1, seizure list,
Ext-2, Ejahar,
Ext-3 Medical Report,
Ext-4 radiological report,
Ext-5 charge-sheet,
Ext-6 sketch map of the place of occurrence.

D. Defence Exhibit
Nil.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Nalbari

Special (P) Case No:40/17 11 of 11
