CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 9/17

Informant: Y",

Accused: Sri Samiran Mithu Das @ Mithu Das,
S/o- Late Gopal Chandra Das,
R/o- Chabua ‘A’ Ward,
PS- Chabua,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. UK Saha, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH
Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 9/17
G.R. Case No. 240/17

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Samiran Mithu Das @ Mithu Das

Charges: Under Sections 11(i)(iv) POCSO Act.
Date of evidence on : 12-07-17, 13-07-17, 18-04-18, 08-10-18 and 27-05-19.

Date of argument —_: 10-06-19.
Date of Judgment —: 24-06-19.

JUDGMENT

1) The prosecution case in a narrow compass is that Sri Samiran Mithu Das @
Mithu Das recently constructed a hut near the informant’s house. He has
been indulging in anti social activities around the area. He utters obscene
words without hesitation and ogles at the informant’s daughter and displays
obscene gestures. On 16-01-17, 'Y's daughter informed her that when she
paces around the terrace of the building, the accused utters obscene words
and displays obscene gestures. He also displayed his private parts, to the
annoyance of the victim. The victim say 'X' was so terrified that she could not
sleep the entire night and was very restless. On 17-01-17, the informant 'Y'
lodged an ejahar with the police. 'Y' is 'X's mother. The ejahar was registered
as Chabua PS Case No. 17/17 under Section 11(i) of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act for short) and SI Tapan
Das was endorsed with the investigation.

2) The investigating officer (IO for short) embarked upon the investigation. He
3)

4)

went to the place of occurrence, prepared the Sketch-Map and recorded the
statements of the witnesses. He forwarded the victim for medical
examination, but the victim refused medical examination. The IO also
forwarded the victim to the Magistrate for recording her statement under
Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC for short). On finding
prima facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused under
Section 11(i) POCSO Act.

On appearance of the accused person, copies were furnished and a formal
charge under Section 11(i)(iv)/12 POCSO Act was framed, read over and
explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and claimed
innocence.

To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of six
witnesses including the IO, and exhibited several documents. To refute the
charges, the defence cross-examined the witnesses in extenso. On the
inculpatory circumstances arising against him, the tone and tenor of the
accused while answering questions under Section 313(1)(b) CrPC depicts a
plea of total denial. The accused answered that the victim is not known to
him. He never saw her. His house is surrounded by vegetation and foliage
and it is not possible that he will be visible from the terrace of the informant’s
house.

Submissions:

5) The learned Public Prosecutor Smt. Runumi Devi and the learned Additional

Public Prosecutor Mrs. Sahnaz Akhtar laid stress in their arguments that there
is clinching evidence against the accused person and he deserves stringent
punishment for his act of disturbing the psyche of the victim. On the other

hand, the learned defence counsel Mr. UK Saha laid stress in his argument
6)

7)

8)

that this case is replete with contradictions. The date mentioned in the FIR is
not similar to the time explained by the victim. The place of occurrence is
1/4" kilometer away from the victim’s house and there are other houses
between the place of occurrence and the victim’s house. There are trees,
vegetation and foliage obstructing the view’s house from the victim to the
accused person’s house. The boundary wall is also an obstruction of view
from the victim's house to the place of occurrence. There is an acrimonious
relationship between the accused and the victim’s father and this was
affirmed by PWs-1, 2 and the IO. The accused was also accompanied by
other miscreants who were not incriminated. There is addition and
development in the evidence, when the victim stated that the accused also
harassed her when she used to proceed for tuition. The age was also not
ascertained by the prosecution
Points for determination:

On the backdrop of the rival contentions, proponed at the bar, the following
points are apposite for proper adjudication of this case:

i. | Whether the accused displayed obscene gestures and
exhibited his private parts and other body parts to the
victim 'X' with sexual intent?

ii. | Whether the accused repeatedly or constantly stalked
the victim 'X' and followed her and watched her?

Decision thereon and the reasons for the decision:
To decide this case it its proper perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence.
The victim ‘X’ testified as PW-1 that the accused is her neighbour, as his land

is situated near her house. She informed her mother about the incident on
9)

16-01-17. The incident took place earlier than on 16-01-17. The accused
constructed a hut over his plot of land which is near to their house. He used
to consume alchohol in the hut along with his friends. The incident occurred
during winter and as it was winter, she went to the terrace to study under the
sun. She noticed the accused from her terrace and the accused winked at her
and unzipped his trouser and displayed his penis. Whenever she used to go
for tuitions, he used to wink at her and smile at her. Whenever they used to
cross paths, the accused used to wink and smile at her and he used to wave
his bottle containing alchohol whenever she used to return home from her
tuitions. Whenever she used to go to her school, crossing his house, he used
to show obscene signs and wink at her. When the accused displayed his penis
by unzipping his pant, she informed her mother about the incident on
16-01-17, because she was terrified by his act. Her mother informed her
father about the incident and her mother lodged an ejahar with the police.
She went to the police station along with her mother. The police took her to
the Assam Medical College & Hospital at Dibrugarh for medical examination
and also forwarded hr to the Magistrate who recorded her statement Ext. 1
wherein Ext. 1(1) and Ext. 1(2) are her signatures.

In her cross-examination, she testified that her father does not stay with
them and she resides with her mother at the 1* floor and some tenants
reside on the ground floor. Their house is an RCC building. There is one
house between the accused person's house and their house. She went to the
terrace on 15-01-17 and she has given evidence about the incident which
occurred on 15-01-17. The hut which belongs to the accused person, is
covered by a boundary wall and she has not noticed how many people were

there, but she was certain that the accused was present. The boundary wall
is more than 5 feet and if she stood by the boundary wall, the wall is taller
than her. There are trees and foliage around the accused person's compound,
but she did not know what kind of trees of these trees were. When she went
to the terrace on the day of incident, she was reading a book and the
accused did not call her by her name. She has noticed the boundary wall in
the compound. She commutes for her tuition classes through the main road.
She goes for her tuition classes at 6:00 am and most of the shops are closed
at that time, except a paan shop. Her father is not in talking terms with the
accused. She did not know if the accused person is a married man with
children.

10) It is pertinent to mention at this juncture that despite the cross-examination
of the victim, the learned defence counsel failed to elicit any contradiction.
Her statement under Section 161 CrPC is held to be consistent to her
testimony in the Court. The argument of the learned defence counsel that the
date of incident as mentioned by the victim, is not similar to the date of the
incident mentioned in the FIR, has no leg to stand. It is clear that the FIR
was lodged on 17-01-17 and the victim's father was informed about the
incident on 16-01-17. The victim informed her mother about the incident on
the following day, because she was terrified on the day when the incident
occurred. Thus, it is as clear as crystal from the evidence of the victim that
the incident occurred on 15-01-17 when the accused displayed obscene acts
by unzipping his trousers and revealing his penis to the annoyance of the
victim.

11) The victim's mother 'Y' testified as PW-4 that the accused is her neighbour.
Her daughter is about 16 years, at present. The incident occurred on

16-01-17. When her daughter used to commute to her school, her daughter
used to notice the accused near the paan shop. The accused use to wink at
her whenever she used to cross him near the paan shop. While her daughter
used to go to the terrace, the accused used to unzip his trouser and exhibit
his private part and also displays alchohol bottle to her daughter. Her
daughter informed her about the incident and the accused person's activities.
She informed her husband about the accused person’s activities over phone.
The incident occurred on 16-01-17 and her daughter informed the accused
person's activities on 16-01-17 and when her husband returned home, she
informed him about the accused person’s activities of winking at her daughter
and exhibiting his private part and alchohol bottle. She lodged an ejahar on
17-01-17 at Chabua Police Station. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext. 2(1) is her
signature. Her daughter also accompanied her to the police station. The
police recorded her statement. Her daughter was forwarded to the Assam
Medical College & Hospital at Dibrugarh for medical examination, but as she
did not have any physical injury, she did not allow her daughter to be
examined.

12) Thus, it is clear that the evidence of PW-4 corroborates the evidence of PW-1.
There is a difference of a day regarding the date of the incident which can be
Safely brushed aside. It is not possible for human mind to specifically recall
the exact date and time of the incident which occurred more than a year ago.
Rather, perfect corroboration depicts that the witnesses are tutored. Her
daughter has already clarified that on the same day, she did not inform her
mother about the incident. It is also in the FIR Ext. 2 that PW-1 was restless
throughout the night and on the next day, 'Y' was informed by PW-1 about
the incident. No contradiction could be elicited through the cross-examination

of the witnesses. It is true that 'Y' did not mention in the FIR regarding the
accused person winking at her daughter while her daughter crossed the paan
chop. The cross-examination of 'Y' reveals that there are two houses between
her house and the accused person’s house. They have a terrace and they also
have a boundary wall and thee is vegetation near her house. She denied the
suggestion that the accused person’s premises are not visible from her
terrace due to the thick vegetation around her house. Other people also visits
the accused person.

13)I would like to reiterate the remaining part of the cross-examination which is
similar to the cross-examination of her daughter. I would like to emphasize
that no contradiction could be elicited through the cross-examination of PWs-
1 and 4. It is thereby held that the statements of PWs-1 and 4 under Section
161CrPC are consistent to their testimonies in the Court. It has been proved
beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused person uttered obscene words
and displayed his penis to the victim by unzipping his pant.

14) The learned defence counsel laid stress in his argument that PW-4 did not
mention the date of the incident.

15) This is not an incident of one day. It is true that the victim testified that the
incident occurred on 15-01-17, but the accused has been continuously
harassing the victim. The victim has been disturbed by the accused person's
overtures.

16)The evidence of PWs-1 and 4 is also corroborated and supported by the
evidence of PW-5. The victim’s father, say 'Z' testified as PW-5 that the
accused is his neighbour. The incident occurred on 16-01-17 and his wife
called him on the same day over phone, but as there was no network
connection, she again called him on 17-01-17. His wife informed him that his

daughter went to the terrace to study and then she saw the accused person
in the adjoining land displaying obscene gestures and his private parts. There
is a bamboo house at the adjoining land. His daughter informed his wife
about the incident and then his wife lodged an ejahar against the accused
person. On the same day, he returned to Chabua from Arunachal Pradesh. He
was hesitant to ask his daughter and his wife informed him about the entire
incident.

17)In his cross-examination, he testified that he is an owner of a three storied
building where his wife resides. There are other tenants in his house. The
accused has business at MES tiniali. He resides in the camp near his house.
The accused works and cultivates land and also throws parties in his campus,
which is adjacent to his house. There is one enclosure between his house and
the accused person's area. There is a protection holf wall on the 2" floor. His
wife informed him that on 16-01-17, there were two other men with the
accused having a party. His wife informed him that the incident occurred in
the morning, but she did not inform him the exact time.

18)I would like to divert the attention towards the cross-examination of PW-5.
The learned defence counsel cross-examined PW-5 in extenso, but failed to
elicit any contradiction. It is held that the evidence of PW-5 is consistent to
his testimony under Section 161 CrPC.

19)The learned defence counsel laid stress in his argument that there was
prevailing animosity between the accused and the informant, and a false case
has been foisted. This argument of the learned defence counsel has no leg to
stand. PWs-1, 4 and 5 vehemently denied in their cross-examination
regarding any acrimonious relationship between the accused and PW-5 when
they were cross-examined by the defence. The cross-examination of the

witnesses depicts mere denial of suggestions by the defence counsel. No
10

contradiction as per Section 145 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872
(the Evidence Act for short) could be elicited through the cross-
examination of the witnesses and also through the _ cross-
examination of the IO. It is thereby held that the accused used to wink at
the victim and followed her on 15-01-17 or on
16-01-17, and displayed his penis to the victim. The accused waved alchohol
bottle and unzipped his trousers and displayed his penis to the victim, stood
firm. No reason is fathomable, why an innocent girl of 15 or 16 years would
falsely implicate an elderly married man of 52 years with such despicable act.

20)Regarding a minor contradiction of a variation in one date between the
testimonies of the witnesses, I would like to rely on the decision of Hon’ble
the Supreme Court of India.

21) The learned defence counsel laid stress in his argument that according to the
victim's testimony, the incident occurred on 05-01-17 and as it is a false case,
her parent's evidence depicts that the incident occurred on 16-01-17.

22)I1 disagree with the submission of the learned defence counsel. It has already
been held in my foregoing discussions that perfect corroboration indicates
that the witnesses are tutored. The witnesses are prone to differ. Each
witness cannot perfectly narrate according to other witness until and unless
they are tutored.

23)It has been held by Hon’ble the Supreme Court in A. Shankar vs.
Karnataka 2011 AIAR, (Criminal) CRL 516 that:

“However, minor — contradictions, inconsistencies,
embellishments or improvements on trivial matters which
do not affect the core of the prosecution case, should not

be made a ground on which the evidence can be rejected
11

In its entirety. The court has to form its opinion about the
credibility of the witness and record a finding as to
whether his deposition inspires confidence.
"Exaggerations per se do not render the evidence brittle.
But it can be one of the factors to test credibility of the
prosecution version, when the entire evidence is put in a
crucible for being tested on the touchstone of credibility.”
Therefore, mere marginal variations in the statements of a
witness cannot be dubbed as improvements as the same
may be elaborations of the statement made by the witness
earlier. "Irrelevant details which do not in any way
corrode the credibility of a witness cannot be labelled as
omissions or contradictions."

24) Reverting back to this case, it is held that the core of the prosecution case
remained the same. It is clear that the accused displayed his penis by
unzipping his pant to the annoyance of the victim. The victim was present
and no other girl or woman was present at that time. It is also held that the
accused winked at the victim and followed her movement and waited for her
at the paan shop, when she commuted for her tuitions. The defence failed to
contradict or controvert the testimonies of the victim and her family
members. Regarding the evidence of other witnesses, I would like to divert
the attention to the evidence of other witnesses.

25) Sri Abesh Jaiswal testified as PW-2 that the accused person resides at a little
distance from his house. The victim is known to him, but he does not know
her name. The incident occurred about 4/5 months ago. On the following day

of the incident, he heard that the accused was arrested by the police from his
12

house. He heard that the accused committed misdeed with 'Z's daughter.

26) Similarly, Sri Bijoy Tiwari testified as PW-3 that the accused, the complainant
and the victim are known to him. The incident occurred about few months
ago. He heard that the accused used to watch the minor victim when she
used to go to the terrace. Thus, it can be held that the evidence of PWs-2
and 3 depicts that they heard about the incident. It is but obvious that in a
case of sexual harassment, it is difficult to find any eye-witness.

27)10's evidence also proves the prosecution case. SI Tapan Das testified as
PW-6 that on 17-01-17, he was on duty at Chabua Police Station. On that
day, the OC of Chabua Police Station received an FIR from 'Y' and registered
a Chabua PS Case No. 17/17 under Section 11(i) POCSO Act and he was
endorsed with the investigation. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext. 2(2) is the
signature of the OC with endorsement. He arrested the accused and
forwarded him to the jail. Prior to this, he recorded the statement of the
victim at the police station and thereafter, he arrested the accused person.
The victim was forwarded for medical examination and also to the Magistrate
for recording her statement. He went to the place of occurrence, prepared
the Sketch-Map and recorded the statements of the witnesses. Ext. 3 is the
Sketch-Map and Ext. 3(1) is his signature. He obtained the Medico-legal
Report Ext. 4. On finding prima facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet
against the accused person. Ext. 5 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 5(1) is his
signature.

28)No contradiction could be elicited through the cross-examination of the
witnesses and through the cross-examination of the IO. The statement of the
victim under Section 164 CrPC is also consistent to her testimony in the

Court.
13

29) I have perused the Sketch-Map which depicts the place of occurrence vividly.
‘A’ is shown as the place of occurrence and ‘C’ is shown as the accused
person's house. There is one house between the place of occurrence and the
complainant's house. It is clear that anybody standing from the terrace at ‘A’
will clearly notice any incident or occurrence at ‘C’.

30) POCSO Act is also supplemented by presumption under Section 30 of the Act
which embodies:

30. Presumption of culpable mental state: (1) In any
prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a
culpable mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court
shall presume the existence of such mental state but it shall be a
defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such
mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that
prosecution.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be proved
only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable
doubt and not merely when its existence is established by a
preponderance of probability.

Explanation.—In this section, "culpable mental state" includes
intention, motive, knowledge of a fact and the belief in, or reason
to believe, a fact.

31)In the instant case, the accused failed to prove that he has no such culpable
mental state with respect to the act with which he was charged. The accused
had no business to follow a minor girl who is even younger than his daughter
and wink at her and wave an alchohol bottle towards her, or unzip his trouser

revealing his penis to annoy her.
14

32)It has already been held in my foregoing discussions that there is clinching
evidence that the accused followed the victim and winked at her when she
used to proceed to her tuition classes. No contradiction could be elicited on
cross-examination of all the witnesses regarding this allegation and evidence.
It is also held that the accused unzipped his trousers while the victim was
studying in the terrace of her house and displayed his penis to her shock and
dismay. No contradiction could be elicited regarding this act of the accused
through assiduous cross-examination of the witnesses by the defence. It is
held that the prosecution could prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused is guilty of offence under Section 12 POCSO Act. The act committed
by the accused is a despicable act. A deterrent type of punishment is the
need of the hour. An innocent victim was anguished by such an act of the
accused person. Suffice it to mention that a period of imprisonment for 3
(three) years will meet the ends of justice.

33)I have heard the accused on the point of sentence. He has prayed for
leniency.

SENTENCE:

34) The accused Sri Samiran Mithu Das @ Mithu Das is convicted under Section
12 POCSO Act and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI in short)
for 3 (three) years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand)
only and in default of payment of fine, to undergo RI for 1 (one) month. The
period of detention of the accused during investigation and trial is set off with
his custodial sentence.

35) Considering the facts and circumstances and the nature of the offence, this
case is not recommended for victim's compensation.

36) Furnish free copies of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.
15

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 24" day of

June, 2019.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Contd.
16

APPENDIX
POCSO Case No. 9/17

List of witnesses for prosecution:
1. PW-1 The victim 'X';
2. PW-2 Sri Abesh Jaiswal;
3. PW-3 Sri Bijoy Tiwari;
4. PW-4 The informant 'Y';
5. PW-5 'Z'- The father of the victim 'X';
6. PW-6 SI Tapan Das.
List of exhibits for prosecution:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim 'X', recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Sketch-Map;
4. Ext. 4 Medico-legal Report;
5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.
List of material exhibits for prosecution: Nil.
List of witnesses for defence: Nil.

List of exhibits for defence: Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
