IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 95 OF 2017
(G.R. Case No. 3443 of 2017)

Teok P.S. Case No. 504 of 2017

Transmitting Magistrate:-

Smt. Rani Boro,
Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat District

State of Assam

-Versus-

Sri Ratul Baruah,
Son of Late Joyram Baruah @ Godur,
Resident of Bonpithaguri Gaon,

P.S. Teok,

District-Jorhat. ... Accused
APPEARANCES:

For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P.,
Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri Biswajit Nath, Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 354-A OF INDIAN PENAL
CODE READ WITH SECTION 12 OF THE PROTECTION OF _
CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Date of Charge : 27-02-2018
Date of prosecution evidence : 22-03-2018 & 20-04-2018

Statement of Accused
u/S. 313 Cr.P.C. Recorded on: 23-05-2018

 

Date of Argument : 23-07-2018
Date of Judgment : 02-08-2018

JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Teok P.S. Case
No. 504/2017 under Section 12 of The Protection of Children
1 ual Offences Act, 2012 was registered on the basis of a

ASE NO. 95 OF 2017
F.I.R. lodged by Smt. Lalita Konwar, mother of the victim girl hereinafter
referred to as ‘X’.

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 18/11/2017 [Exhibit-2],
the informant Smt. Lalita Konwar [PW-2] who is the mother of the
victim girl alleged, inter-a/ia, that prior to some days of filing the ejahar
before police, she was not present inside her residence. At that time,
her minor daughter [X] was residing alone in the house. It is further
stated by the informant in her ejahar that on 16/11/2017 at about 8.00
A.M. she came to know about the incident from the mouth of her minor
daughter who disclosed before her that in her absence accused Ratul
Baruah arrived at their house and committed sexual harassment upon
her minor daughter.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the then In-charge,
Lahdoigarh O.P. under Teok P.S. the same was entered in General Diary
Register vide No. 358 dated 18/11/2017. The then _ In-charge,
Lahdoigarh O.P. sent the ejahar to Teok P.S. for registration of a case
under proper section of law. The then Officer-in-charge, Teok P.S., upon
receipt of the ejahar registered the same vide Teok P.S. Case No.
504/2017 under Section 12 of The Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was
medically examined by the doctor, her statement under Section 164 of
Cr.P.C. was recorded by the learned Magistrate. Police on completion of
investigation filed charge-sheet in the case against the above named
accused Ratul Baruah u/S. 12 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 vide Charge-sheet No. 337/2017 dated 30/11/2017.

2). The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jorhat, transmitted the
case to this Court for trial. Copy was furnished to the accused in due
course.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the

documents submitted therewith and after hearing the submission of
the accused and the prosecution in this behalf, | found sufficient
ground for presuming that the accused has committed offences under
Section 354-A of IPC read with Section 12 of The Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Accordingly, the charges were framed,
read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded
not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 05 [five] witnesses including the
victim, her mother, the Medical Officer and the I.O. were examined on
behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge u/S. 354-A of IPC read
with Section 12 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,
2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of
above named accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.PC. and the
accused stated that mother as well as victim had lodged false case
against him. He is a married person having his wife and one son. The
accused pleaded innocence. No witness was adduced by the accused in
defence.

5). | have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public
Prosecutor for the State as well as Sri Biswajit Nath, learned Defence
Counsel for the accused who is facing trial for commission of offence
u/S. 354-A of IPC read with Section 12 of The Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as
follows:-
1) Whether on or about 16/11/2017 at about 8.00 A.M.,
before the date of filing of the ejahar by the informant
Smt. Lalita Konwar on 18/11/2017, the accused named
above in absence of the family members of the
informant, arrived at the house of informant and grabbed
her minor daughter or used criminal force intending to
outrage her modesty and thereby committed an offence
punishable under Section 354-A of IPC?

3 ASE NO. 95 OF 2017
2) Whether on the same day, time and place the accused
named above committed sexual harassment upon the
victim girl and thereby committed an offence punishable
under Section 12 of The Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7). Let us examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the
witnesses along with the relevant documents to determine whether
prosecution side has been able to prove the alleged charges against
the accused.

PW-1 is the victim of the instant case who is also star
witness to the incident. During her testimony, she divulged that on the
date of incident she was going to school in her school uniform. At that
time the accused arrived in her house and dragged her inside, laid her
on the bed and opened her pant. It is further stated by the victim that
the accused thereafter opened the chain of his pant and inserted his
penis in her private part inspite of her protest. The accused also did not
allow her to make hue and cry. After committing the crime the accused
left her house. Further version of the victim is that on the relevant day
her mother was not present in the house. She narrated the incident
before her mother after fifteen days of incident and thereafter her
mother lodged ejahar before police. She also deposed that she gave
statement before the Magistrate and she marked Exhibit-1 to be her
statement and her signatures thereon as Exhibit-1 [1] to Exhibit-1 [3].
She was also produced before a doctor for medico legal check-up by
police.

During cross-examination by defence side, she asserted to
have stated before police that “on the date of incident she was
going to her school in her school uniform; that accused came
to her house and sat inside their house; that accused called

4
her insider her house; that when she did not go inside her
house then accused dragged her; that accused made her lie on
the bed and opened the chain of his pant and inserted his
penis into her vagina and that accused told her not to disclose
the incident to anyone. Further, she told the incident to her
mother after fifteen days of incident”.

The victim further stated that Jogen Lahong resided near
their residence and they have good terms with his family. She further
admitted that accused is having a grocery shop and she often
purchased articles from his shop.

8). Smt. Lalita Konwar [PW-2] is the mother of victim-cum-
informant of the case. This witness divulged during her testimony that
on the date of incident she came out of her house to attend a meeting.
After 13/15 days of incident she came to know about the incident
through the mouth of her daughter [victim]. It is further version of this
witness that on the relevant day she noticed her daughter sleeping
without her undergarment and then she asked her whether someone

had done anything to her or not. In turn, her daughter stated before
her that the accused came to their house and did bad work with her.

She then lodged ejahar before police vide Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2
[1] is her signature. Police arrived at the house, took the victim before
a doctor for medico legal check-up and before the Magistrate for
recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

During cross-examination, she stated that she lodged ejahar
before police on the same day when victim narrated the incident
before her. She claimed to have stated before police that “on the
relevant day she_ noticed victim sleeping without her
undergarment; that when she asked her whether someone had
done anything to her or not then her daughter told her that
accused came to their house and did bad work with her”.

This witness admitted that accused had a grocery shop and
she purchased articles from the shop of accused. She categorically
stated that she did not visit the house of accused.

5 ASE NO. 95 OF 2017
9). Dr. Ritu Saikia [PW-3] who was posted at Jorhat Medical
College & Hospital as Lady Medical Officer on duty Registrar examined
the victim on 20/11/2017, as per police requisition and on examination
she found as follows:
a) Her age is above 14 years and below 16 years.
b) Evidence of injury and pregnancy not detected on her person.
c) Evidence of recent sexual intercourse is not detected on her
person.
The doctor exhibited her report as Exhibit-3 and her
signatures as Exhibit-3 [1] to Exhibit-3 [3].
Defence cross-examined the doctor and during cross-
examination she categorically stated that victim did not state before
her the name of accused who did bad work with her. Further, she did

not find any injury on the person of victim at the time of examination.

10). The evidence of Smt. Rina Gogoi [PW-4] who is
neighbour of victim as well as accused is to the effect that when police
visited the house of victim then only she went to the house of victim
where she came to know from the mother of victim that the accused
had raped her daughter, for which, police had taken the accused to the
police station.

During cross-examination by defence side, she stated
that she did not state before police that mother of victim told her that
accused had raped the victim. Further, victim was not present at that

time.

11). Sri Khagen Laskar [PW-5] is the investigating officer of
the instant case who stated about the routine steps taken by him
during investigation of the case after ejahar being filed by the
informant before the then In-charge, Lahdoigarh O.P. under Teok P.S.
Upon instruction of the higher officials, he visited the
place of occurrence, examined witnesses who were acquainted with

the fact and circumstance of the case. He also drew Sketch Map of the

6
place of occurrence vide Exhibit-4 wherein Exhibit-4 [1] is his signature.
He also arrested accused in connection with the case. Victim was sent
before a doctor for medico legal check-up and thereafter before the
learned Magistrate who recorded statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
On completion of investigation he submitted charge-sheet against the
accused vide C.S. No. 307/2017 dated 30/11/2017.

During cross-examination by defence side, he confirmed
that victim [PW-1] did not state before him under Section 161 Cr.P.C.
that “on the date of incident she was going to her school in her
school uniform; that accused came to her house and sat inside
their house; that accused called her insider her house; that
when she did not go inside her house then accused dragged
her; that accused made her lie on the bed and opened the
chain of his pant and inserted his penis into her vagina and
that accused told her not to disclose the incident to anyone.
Further, she told the incident to her mother after fifteen days
of incident”.

It is further confirmed by the I.0. that witness Smt. Lalita
Konwar [PW-2] who is the informant of the case-cum-mother of
victim did not state before him under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that “on the
relevant day she _ noticed victim sleeping without her
undergarment; that when she asked her whether someone had
done anything to her or not then her daughter told her that
accused came to their house and did bad work with her”.

The 1.0. stated that witness Smt. Rima Gogoi [PW-4] did
not state before him under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that “mother of victim
told her that accused had raped her daughter [PW-1]”.

The 1.0. confirmed that as no other people near the place of
occurrence told him anything regarding the incident hence he did not
record their statement.

12). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen
that the victim [PW-1] who is the star witness of the instant case during
her deposition before court stated that on the date of incident she was

7

ASE NO. 95 OF 2017
going to school in her school uniform. At that time the accused arrived
in her house and dragged her inside, laid her on the bed and opened
her pant. It is further stated by the victim that the accused thereafter
opened the chain of his pant and inserted his penis in her private part
even on her protest. The accused also did not allow her to make hue
and cry. After committing the crime the accused left her house. Further
version of the victim is that on the relevant day her mother was not
present in the house. She narrated the incident before her mother after
fifteen days of incident and thereafter her mother lodged ejahar before
police. She also deposed that she gave statement before the
Magistrate and she marked Exhibit-1 to be her statement and her
Signatures thereon as Exhibit-1 [1] to Exhibit-1 [3]. She was also
produced before a doctor for medico legal check-up by police.

13). Victim [PW-1] during her statement before the then
learned Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. recorded on 20/11/2017
disclosed that on 06/11/2017 at about 8.00 A.M. she was waiting
outside her house. At that time accused Ratul Baruah arrived at her
house and called her inside the house. The victim further stated that
she used to call the accused as her uncle [Dodaidew]. She further
stated that her mother was not present inside the house as she went
out to attend a meeting. The accused pulled her inside the house by
her hand. She was wearing a frock at that time. There was no door in
the room where the accused took her. The accused thereafter removed
her panty and laid down on the bed. In that event, the accused opened
his zip of the jeans pant and thereafter inserted his penis into her
vagina and committed bad work with her. She felt pain and tried to
shout for help but accused gagged her mouth with his hand, for which,
she could not shout for help. After committing the crime the accused
left her house and she then went towards her school. Out of fear she
did not disclose the fact before her mother. But on suspicion her
mother questioned her and then on 16/11/2017 she narrated the
incident before her mother who, in turn, lodged ejahar before police
regarding the incident on 18/11/2017.
14). From the deposition of the witnesses more particularly, the
evidence of the victim [PW-1], Smt. Lalita Konwar [PW-2] who is mother
of victim-cum-informant of the case, it is seen that their evidence are
completely different before the I.0. and before the court. Smt. Lalita
Konwar [PW-2] who is the mother of victim [PW-1] categorically stated
in her evidence before court that on the relevant day she noticed her.
daughter sleeping without her undergarment_ and then she asked her
whether someone had done anything to her or not. In turn, her_

daughter stated before her that the accused came to their house and.
did bad work with her.

The victim [PW-1] divulged in her evidence the place where
she was allegedly raped by the accused in her house. It is also seen
from the evidence of the doctor [PW-3] that she did not notice any
injury on the private parts of the victim nor she found any evidence of
recent sexual intercourse on the person of victim at the time of

examination.

15). The 1.0. Sri Knagen Laskar [PW-5] during cross-examination
by defence side confirmed that victim [PW-1] did not state before him
under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that “on the date of incident she was
going to her school in her school uniform; that accused came
to her house and sat inside their house; that accused called
her insider her house; that when she did not go inside her
house then accused dragged her; that accused made her lie on
the bed and opened the chain of his pant and inserted his
penis into her vagina and that accused told her not to disclose
the incident to anyone. Further, she told the incident to her
mother after fifteen days of incident”.

It is further confirmed by the I.0. that witness Smt. Lalita
Konwar [PW-2] who is the informant of the case-cum-mother of
victim did not state before him under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that “on the
relevant day she _ noticed victim sleeping without her
undergarment; that when she asked her whether someone had

9 ASE NO. 95 OF 2017
10

done anything to her or not then her daughter told her that
accused came to their house and did bad work with her”.

The I.0. stated that witness Smt. Rima Gogoi [PW-4] did
not state before him under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that “mother of victim
told her that accused had raped her daughter [PW-1]”.

The 1.0. confirmed that as no other people near the place of
occurrence told him anything regarding the incident hence he did not
record their statement.

16). In the case of Bipin Kumar Mondal -versus- State of
West Bengal, 2010 [12] SCC 91, the Hon’ble Apex Court reiterated
the principle stating that it is not the quantity but the quality that is
material. The honored principle is that evidence has to be weighed and
not counted. The test is whether the evidence has a ring of truth, is
cogent, credible, trustworthy and reliable.

17). From the aforesaid exposition of law, it is quite clear that
it is not the number and quantity, but the quality that is material. It is
the duty of the court to consider the trustworthiness of evidence on
record which inspires confidence and the same has to be accepted and
acted upon.

18). In the case of Utpal Mishra -versus- State of Assam,
2015 [2] GLR 542, it has been held by the Hon’ble Gauhati High
Court in Para No-22 of its judgment as follows:

PARA NO-22
The principles of criminal jurisprudence are that:

a) There should be legal, reliable and unimpeachable
evidence to prove that the prosecution story “must be
true” rather than “may be true”;

b) It is a settled principle of criminal jurisprudence that
more serious the offence, stricter is the degree of proof;

10
11

19).

c)

d)

e)

f)

g)

h)

Standard of proof in a criminal case: burden is always
on the prosecution and the same never shifts.
Prosecution can never derive any benefit from the
weakness of the defence version;

Holding a witness “implicitly reliable” leads to denial of
judicial consideration of the infirmities in evidence;
Defence witnesses cannot be disbelieved by relying on
conjectures and surmises: they are entitled to equal
treatment with those of the prosecution;

If two views are possible in a criminal case, the view
favourable to the accused should be accepted;

The averment/allegation with respect to the commission
of rape has got to be clear and specific for basing a
finding of guilt rather than being just inferential. The
evidence/averments/allegations must fulfill the
ingredients of offence of RAPE as defined under Section
375 of IPC;

The prosecution must prove the case in the manner in
which they are alleged to have been caused. It is
elementary where the prosecution has a definite and
positive case, it must prove the whole of that case;

In a case the prosecution leads two sets of evidence,
each one of which contradicts and strikes at the other
and shows it to be unreliable, the result would
necessarily be that the court would be left with no
reliable and trustworthy evidence upon which the
conviction of the accused might be based. Inevitably,
the accused would have the benefit of such situation.

Keeping in mind the above rationale as laid down by the

Hon’ble Apex Court | am constrained to hold that the evidence adduced

by the prosecution in support of its case is nothing shorter than mere

conjectures and suspicion.

Ll

ASE NO. 95 OF 2017
12

20). | find serious contradiction in the evidence of victim [PW-1]
with other material witness of the case, i.e., Smt. Lalita Konwar [PW-2]
who is the mother of victim-cum-informant of the case. It is hard to
believe that accused, who was known to the victim before the incident,
will enter in her house and try to commit rape on the victim, in broad
day light and victim will not raise alarm for her help. Victim in her
evidence did not state sustaining of any injury on her person as a result
of resistance of rape on her person. No doubt, in a rape case, accused
can be convicted on the sole testimony of the victim but it must be
trustworthy, cogent, reliable and it should inspire confidence before
Same can be acted upon. But in the case in hand does not fulfill those
conditions to convict the accused.

Consequently the charge under Section 354-A IPC as
well as under Section 12 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012, is held to be not proved against the accused Ratul
Baruah beyond all reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the accused is found
entitled to get benefit of doubt for which the accused namely Ratul
Baruah is acquitted under benefit of doubt.

21). Hence, the accused Sri Ratul Baruah is acquitted on
benefit of doubt from the offence u/S. 354-A IPC as well as under
Section 12 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,
2012, and he is set at liberty forthwith.

Accused is on bail. The bail bond of accused is extended
for another 06 [six] months from today as per provision of Section
437-A Cr.P.C.

22). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this O2nd
day of August 2018.

Special Judge, Jorhat

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

12
13

PW-1 Victim girl.

PW-2 Smt. Lalita Konwar, mother of victim-cum-
informant of the case.

PW-3 Dr. Ritu Saikia who examined the victim
girl.

PW-4 Smt. Rina Gogoi, housewife.

PW-5 Sri Khagen Laskar, I.O. of the case.

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

Exhibit-1 Statement of victim recorded by the
Magistrate under Section 164 CrP.C.

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Medico legal report of the victim.

Exhibit-4 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence
with index.

Exhibit-5 Charge-sheet

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-l)

1 3 ASE NO. 95 OF 2017
14

14
