Page 1 of 14

THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASENO. :- 43 of 2018

Present =

Prosecutor !-
-“VSs-

Accused !-

Date of framing Charge -

Date of evidence :-

Date of examination of I-
accused..u/s°313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument =

Date of Judgment =

Counsel for the Prosecution :-

Counsel for Accused -

(Under Section 8 of POCSO Act, arising out of
G.R. Case No 1674 of 2018)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur,, \Tezpur

State of Assam

Sri Ruhit Rowtia,

Son of Late Kamala Rowtia,
Resident of No. 1 Ulubari
Police Station — Thelamara
Dist :-Sonitpur, Assam.

01/09/2018

14/09/2018, 28/09/2018
& 02/11/2018.

2/11/2018

02/11/2018
02/11/2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor.

Mr. A.K. Saikia, State defence counsel.
Page 2 of 14

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Ruhit Rowtia is put for trial for allegation
of charge under Section 8 of POCSO Act.
2. The various facts leading to this case according to FIR in brief is

that on 30-04-2018 at about 1 p.m. in absence of any of the family members of
the complainant, accused trespassed into the house of the informant, gagged
informant’s 16 years old minor daughter on her mouth and attempted to commit
rape while informant’s daughter raised alarm accused fled away.-Hence, this
prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by informant Susanta Dutta before the
O/C of Thelamara PS on 30-04-2018.
3. On receipt the ejahar, the O/C of Thelamara P.S. registered the
case, vide Thelamara PS Case No. 67/18, under Section 448 of IPC read with
section 8 of POCSO Act. After completion of «usual investigation, the O/C
Thelamara Police station sent up the case for trial against the accused Sri Ruhit
Rowtia under Section 10 of POCSO Act,
4. On being appeared the accused person before this Court after
hearing both parties, framedscharge under section 8 of POCSO Act against the
accused Ruhit Rowtia. Particulars of the charge are read over and explained to
which he pleads not.guilty.and claimed to be tried.
5. To. substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 8
(eight) numbers of witnesses. Accused pleads total denial while his statement
was recorded)u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and
evidence, appears against the accused are put before him where he denied the
evidence and declined to give defence evidence.
6. I have also heard arguments put forwarded by the learned
counsel for both parties.
7. The point for decision in this case is that :
(i) Whether on 30-04-2018 at about 1 p.m. at No. 1 Ulubari under
Thelamara Police station, accused committed sexual assault on
victim, aged about 16 years of age and thereby committed an
offence punishable under section 8 of POCSO Act ?
Page 3 of 14

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.
9. PW- 1 Susanta Dutta, complainant of this case, has stated before the

court that the incident took place in the month of May, 2018. At that time he was
not present at his house. His wife informed over telephone that accused Rohit
Rowtia by entering into his house dragged his daughter. At the relevant time the
age of his daughter was 16 + years. On arrival at his house, at about.2 P.M., he
came to know from his daughter that when she was alone.at‘-home, accused
came to his house and dragged her inside the house. Thereafter on being afraid
she went to a nearby house. Thereafter, he has lodged the ejahar against the
accused before Thelamara Police station. Ext. 1lyis ‘the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his
signature. His daughter was sent to the learned Court for recording her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

Though PW 1 has been exposed to long cross-examination but the

evidence as to his wife informed. him over telephone that the accused by
entering into their house draggedhis 16 years old daughter and on arrival at his
house at about 2 p.m. hexcame to know from his daughter that while she was
alone at home, accused=came to their house and dragged her inside the house
and thereaftervon\being afraid she went to a nearby house has remained
unchallenged.
10. PW-2)Smti Shyamali Dutta, who is the mother of the victim stated that
she knows the accused. Her victim daughter is aged about 16 years. The
incident took place about 3/ 4 months ago, at about 11 a.m. At that time she
and her husband were not present at home. At that time her victim daughter
was alone at home. At the relevant time she reads in class IX. Her victim
daughter informed her over phone that accused dragged her with attempt to
commit misdeed (bad act) (Badmasi). Then she informed the matter to her
husband. Then her husband filed ejahar. At the relevant time, she went to
Ulubari Centre to collect the medical card.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination but the

evidence as to when her victim daughter was alone at home, accused dragged
Page 4 of 14

her with attempt to commit misdeed (bad act) (Badmasi) which was informed to
her by victim has remained unchallenged.
11. PW-3 Phulesa Khatoon who turned hostile stated that she knows the
accused Rohit Rowtia and the victim girl. She also knows the complainant. The
incident took place about 3/ 4 months ago. At about 12 noon to 1 p.m. victim girl
came to their house and requested her to use her mobile hand set as she wants
to ring her mother.
12. PW- 4 Smti Jonaki Kurmi stated that accused, complainant and victims
are her neighbours. The incident took place about 3 months ago. At.the relevant
time she went out to collect medical card. When she returned home.victim was
found crying. While she enquired the victim, she did not-State anything. She
came to know that local public assaulted accused Rohit Rowtia.

In cross-examination she admitted that she.does not know if there were
any quarrel in between the father of the victim andthe accused.
13. PW 5 Sri Bhaskar Debnath, stated before the court that accused,
complainant and victim are his neighbours. The incident took place about 3
months ago. The incident took place,at\day time. At that time he was at my
home. The mother of the victim girl,’ reported him in his house that accused
Rohit dragged the victim girl’ and took inside the room.
14. PW 6, Miss Juhi Gogoi, Judicial Magistrate, 1° class, Tezpur stated that
on 03-05-2018 she.was-posted as Judicial Magistrate, 1% class, Sonitpur, Tezpur
and on that day*in\reference to Special POCSO Case No. 43/18 u/s 8 of POCSO
Act, she has recorded the statement of one Miss X, D/O Sri Susanta Dutta, 16
years of.age,»resident of Ulubari, Thelamara, who is a student of Ulubari High
School u/s’ 164 Cr.P.C. She has recorded the statement of the said witness at the
court chamber. The witness was escorted and identified by HG Hemi Patangia.
The said witness made statement voluntarily. After recording her statement, the
statement was read over to her and on acceptance she put signature in her
statement. Ext. 2 is the said statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. of victim girl and 2(1) is
her signature. Ext. 3 is her order dated 03-05-2018 and Ext. 3(1) is her
signature.
15. PW 7, Miss X, who is the victim in this case, stated that the incident took
place on 30-04-2018 at about 11 a.m. At the relevant time she was alone in her

house. She was mopping the floor. Accused came and asked her where is her
Page 5 of 14

mother. She told him that her mother is not in the house. He asked her where
her mother went to, she replied him that her mother went to Ulubari. Then he
went out and secretly came from back side. She was again mopping the floor. He
hugged her from back side, forcefully dragged her inside the room but she
somehow come out and go out to outside. After about 10 minutes, he again
came along with his daughter Divia Routia, aged about one and half years old.
He asked her hot water. She told him that in their house there is no hot water.
Then his nephew Pittam Routia told her to prepare the hot water through gas
but she refused. Then they left her house. Then she informed the matter to her
mother over phone. On arrival of her mother, she narrated the incident to her
mother. Her mother filed the case against the accused. After instituting the case,
police came, recorded her statement and also sent her to the learned Magistrate
to record her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 2 is her statement and Ext. 2(2),
2(3) and 2(4) are her signatures.

Though she has been subjected to vigorous cross-examined by the
defence but the evidence as to at the relevant time when she was mopping the
floor accused came to their house, asked\whereabouts of her mother, thereafter
he went out and again secretly. came back, hugged her from back side, forcefully
dragged her inside the room*but_she somehow came out and go out to outside
and after 10 minutes accused again came with his one and half years old baby
daughter and he wants some hot water while she refused accused’s nephew told
her to prepareshot. water but that was also she refused has remained
unchallenged.

16. PW.8) the Investigating Officer, SI Gokul Sonowal, stated before this
court that® on 30-04-2018 he was posted as 2™ Officer at Thelamara Police
station. On that day, one Susanta Dutta filed an ejahar, and on receipt the
ejahar, the then O/C registered a case being Thelamara PS Case No. 67/2018
u/s 448 of the IPC r/w section 8 of POCSO Act and entrusted him for
investigation by the then O/C Susil Kr. Bhuyan. Ext. 1(2) is the signature of the
then O/C of Thelamara PS O/C Susil Kr. Bhuyan which he knew on official
communication. On the said day, he has visited the place of occurrence and
prepared the sketch map. Ext. 4 is the sketch map and Ext. 4(1) is his signature.
He has also recorded the statement of victim, complainant Susanta Dutta and

other witnesses at the place of occurrence i.e. No. 1 Ulubari village. Next day, he
Page 6 of 14

has sent the victim girl for medical examination but victim refused to examine
her. On 03-05-2018 he has sent the victim girl to the learned court for recording
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Then he has taken the custody of the accused
from the hands of public as the local public kept him and assaulted and
thereafter, he arrested the accused. Thereafter, on 03-05-2018 forwarded the
accused to the court. On completion of usual investigation, he has filed the
chargesheet against the accused finding sufficient materials u/s 448 of IPC read
with section 10 of POCSO Act vide chargesheet No. 55 of 18 dated 30-06-2018.
Ext. 5 is the chargesheet and Ext. 5(1) is his signature.

Witness Phulesa Khatoon stated before him that "on 30-04-2018 at noon
while I was busy in my domestic work, Sujala Dutta came to,our house and
reported me when she was mopping floor Rohit Rowtiaycame to their house and
holding her hands and attempted to commit mis deed. Then I asked her whether
she reported the matter to her mother or not, Ahen she reported the matter to
her mother through my hand set. Rohit Rowtia is a character loose person. In
earlier occasion he also indulged in seeing the girl with bad intention. ”

Ext. 6 is the case diary of Thelamara PS Case No. 67/18 and Ext. 6(1) is

the relevant portion of statement of witness Phulesa Khatoon and Ext. 6(2) is his

signature.

17. These much is ‘the evidence of prosecution.

18. Defence,plea is total denial while his statement was recorded u/s
313 Cr.P.C.

19. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution

has failed‘to»prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, the sole
evidence, of the victim cannot be relied on as her statement made before the
court is not tallied with the statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Secondly, the
statement of the victim is not supported by other witnesses. Thirdly, there are
many contradictions among the statements of the witnesses.

20. On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor has submitted that
the prosecution has ably proved the case against the accused beyond any
reasonable doubt, hence, accused is required to be convicted under the charged
section. Learned Special PP also submitted that in fact there is no enmity in

between the accused and the complainant. Even if there is any strange relation
Page 7 of 14

between the accused and complainant, it would not be expected from the
complainant to involve his own minor daughter in such a hatred cases.

Learned Special PP again submitted that PWs 1 and 2 are the father and
mother of the victim, therefore, question may arise to their interestedness to
succeed the case. To rely the interested witnesses in convicting the accused,
learned Special PP submitted the case of Gali Venkataiah Vs. State of
Andhra Pradesh reported in 2008 Crl.L.J. 690. In regard to minor
discrepancies, learned Special PP also submitted the case law of State of UP V.
Krishna Master & ors reported in 2010 Crli.L.J.3889.

21. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the learned counsels
of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

22. After going through the evidence of the aforesaid. witnesses, it is seen
except the victim, there is no eye witness to the incident, but after the incident,
the victim informed about the incident to her mother and lateron to her father
which are corroborated.

According to PW 1, informant and father of the victim, stated that at the
time of the incident, he was not presentyat his house. His wife informed over
telephone that accused Rohit..Rowtia’by entering into his house dragged his
daughter. At the relevant time_the age of his daughter was 16 + years. On
arrival at his house, at about 2 P.M., he came to know from his daughter that
when she was alone at-home, accused came to his house and dragged her inside
the house. Thereafter on being afraid she went to a nearby house. Thereafter,
he has lodgedthe ejahar against the accused before Thelamara Police station.
Ext. 1 isthe ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. His daughter was sent to the
learned Court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

Similarly, PW 2, mother of the victim also stated that at the relevant time
she herself and her husband were not present at home. At that time her
daughter was alone at home. Her daughter informed her over telephone that
accused dragged her with attempt to commit misdeed (bad act), then she
informed the matter to her husband and then her husband filed the ejahar
against the accused. PW 7, victim, also stated that at the relevant time she was
mopping the floor of the house then accused entered into their house, asked
whereabouts of her mother, when she told him that her mother was not at home

as her mother went to Ulubari then accused go out, again secretly entered while
Page 8 of 14

she was mopping the floor, accused hugged from backside, forcefully dragged
her inside the room but she somehow came out and go out to outside. After
about 10 minutes he again came along with his daughter Divia Routia, aged
about one and half years old. He asked her hot water but she refused. Then
accused’s nephew Pittam Routia told her to prepare the hot water through gas
but she refused. Then they left her house. Then she informed the matter to her
mother over phone. On arrival of her mother, she narrated the incident to her
mother. Her mother filed the case against the accused. After instituting the case,
police came, recorded her statement and also recorded the statement through
the learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Though she has been exposed to long
cross-examination but her evidence as to accused came to-her house while she
was mopping the floor, asked whereabouts of her mother, thereafter he went
out and again secretly came back, hugged her from. back side, forcefully dragged
her inside the room but she somehow camevout and go out to outside has
remained unchallenged.

23. Learned counsel for the accused. submitted that the prosecution has failed
to prove the age of the victim as they have not been seized any school certificate
or Birth certificate of victim to ascertain the age. Therefore, the case cannot be
stated to be fallen under POCSO Act.

24. It is true that inthe present case there is no documents like Birth
certificate or age certificate or any certificate issued by the School authority
where the victinmast studied or any certificate issued by local Panchayat etc. to
prove the victim that she was 16 + years at the time of incident. At the time of
deposition,the victim was 16 years as stated by her. Similarly, in her statement
recorded, u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she also stated that she was 16 years old. Therefore,
from her statement it appears that at the relevant time she was 16 years of age,
that has not been challenged by defence at any point of time, therefore, it can
safely be held that the victim was a minor.

25. In the case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State, represented by the
Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD) No.98 of 2015, it was held that it
is true that primary evidence to prove the date of birth of the individual may be
preferably the birth certificate. But, it cannot be said that in absence of birth
certificate, the date of birth cannot be proved. When the age of the individual is

not disputed, the question of proving the same does not arise at all. It is the
Page 9 of 14

settled law that a fact in issue or any relevant fact or any fact relevant to the
issue, which is disputed by the adverse party alone, needs proof. If it is not
disputed, there is no need to lead any evidence in proof of the said admitted
fact.

26. _In this case, the victim and her parents categorically stated the age of the
victim was about 16 years from the very beginning of the case, at the time of
commission of offence, besides during cross-examination, the same has not been
disputed at all by the accused side. In FIR also informant also stated that at the
relevant time the victim was about 16 years. Thus, the evidence of PWs 1, 2 and
7 in respect of age of the victim remains unchallenged.

27. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the material
particulars with regard to the incident that on the day of incident, while she was
alone in her house mopping the floor, accused entered into their house, asked
her whereabouts of her mother, when victim replied that her mother went to
Ulubari, accused went out and again secretly entered and hugged her from back
side, forcefully dragged her inside the room but she somehow came out and the
victim also made such statement before the I.0. u/s 161 Cr.P.C and also to the
learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.PxC.*° which was confirmed by the learned
Magistrate. Though the victim as vigorously cross-examined but the evidence at
the relevant to accused came to her house while she was mopping the floor,
asked whereabouts, of, her mother, thereafter he went out and again secretly
came back, hugged her from back side, forcefully dragged her inside the room
with intent*to. commit misdeed to her has remained unchallenged. There is
nothing-in the evidence of the PWs that the accused had any enmity or quarrel
with the, complainant to file the case falsely against the accused. Therefore,
defence of false allegation is not made out.

28. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan Vs. Babu Muna
(2013) 4 SCC 206, has observed as under :-

“9. We do not have any slightest hesitation in accepting the broad
submission of Mr. Jain that the conviction be based on the sole testimony of the
prosecutrix, it found to be worthy of credence and reliable and for that no
corroboration is required. It has often been said that oral testimony can be
clarified into three categories, namely, (i) wholly reliable, (ii) whole unreliable

and (iii) neither wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable. In case of wholly reliable
Page 10 of 14

testimony of single witness, the conviction can be found without corroboration.
This principle applies with greater in terms in case the nature of offence is such
that it is committed in seclusion. In case prosecution is based on wholly
unreliable testimony of single witness but the court has no option to acquit the
accused.”

29. | Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of accused is
not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered much as prosecution
is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts. However,
in a case under POCSO Act, the situation is not so. In this regard, it will be
worthwhile to refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO. Act.

30.  U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for’certain offence is to
be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain offences and same
reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences Where a person is prosecuted

for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted:to, commit the offence, as the case may be,
unless the contrary is proved.
31. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special Court shall
draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state of the accused
where culpable mental, state is required on the part of the accused. Section 30
reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any prosecution for
any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of
the accused, the Special Court shall presume that existence of such mental state
but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such
mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when
the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely
when its existence is established by a preponderance of probabilities.

32. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be recorded on the
sole testimony of a child witness or not? Such issue was dealt by the Hon’ble
Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are

reproduced as under:
Page 11 of 14

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On the contrary,
Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may testify — all persons
shall be competent to testify unless the Court considers that they are prevented
from understanding the questions put to them, or from giving rational answers to
those questions, by tender years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body or
mind, or any other cause of the same kind.”

33. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has intellectual
capacity to understand questions and give rational answers thereto. The
evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected per se, but the Court as
a rule of prudence considers such evidence with close scrutiny and only on being
convinced about the quality thereof and reliability can record) conviction, based
thereon.

34. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra, (1997) 5
SCC 341, it was held that a child witness if found competent to depose to the
facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other
words, even in the absence of oath) the evidence of a child witness can be
considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to
understand the questions and.able to give rational answer thereof. The evidence
of a child witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of
each case. The only precaution which the Court should bear in mind while
assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a reliable
one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent witness and there
is no likelihood of being tutored. Here in the present case, victim was examined
on oath as’she was 16 years of age.

35. | On appreciation of the evidence given by the victim and her parents, it
comes to the conclusion that it is the accused who attempt to commit sexual
assault to the victim. Therefore, I think that the prosecution has failed to prove
the ingredients of section 8 of the POCSO Act.

36. In regard to the age of the victim, it appears that as stated above, the
victim as well as parents of the victim all were stated that the victim was 12
years of age at the time of occurrence. Under such circumstances, it cannot be

sated to be attempted to commit the offence of aggravated sexual assault.
Page 12 of 14

37. Considering the aforesaid aspect, the offence of the accused cannot be
stated to be attempted to commit aggravated sexual assault but attempt to
commit sexual assault. Therefore, accused Sri Rohit Rowtia is acquitted from the
alleged charge u/s 8 of the POCSO Act but he is convicted u/s 18 of the POCSO
Act.
38. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he praying for
leniency stating that he has been in jail hajot for more than 6 months and he is
the only bread earner of his family, hence, praying for leniency.
39. I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well as learned Public
Prosecutor, Sonitpur.
40. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settledylaw that while
deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required thatthe Court should strike a
balance between aggravating circumstances and mitigating circumstances. The
aggravating circumstances relate to the crime and mitigating circumstances
relate to the criminal. In this case, so far as the aggravating circumstances are
concerned, a minor girl was sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is
not only to the body but also to the mind of not only to the victim but that of
entire family members, but .considering the mitigating circumstances, the
accused was hardly 35 years ‘of age at the time of the incident. It is not brought
to the notice of this Courtsthat before this incident, the accused had committed
any other offence. There-is likelihood of his reformation, but the statute u/s.18 of
POCSO Act a punishment for any description provided for the offence, for a term
which may,extend to one-half of the imprisonment for life or, as the case may
be, one-half of the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence or
with fine or with both.
ORDER

41. —I convict the accused Sri Ruhit Rowtia u/s. 18 of POCSO Act and sentence
him to Simple Imprisonment for 6 (six) months and also to pay a fine of Rs.
5000/- (Rupees five thousand only), in default, another period of Simple
Imprisonment for 3 (three) months.

The period, in which he detained in custody, shall be set off from the
period of imprisonment, imposed on him.
42.  Asper provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim compensation

is permissible in law. After going through the statement of witnesses, I think the
Page 13 of 14

victim is entitled to get the compensation. To mitigating the mental agony and
trauma suffered by the victim, an amount of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees twenty

thousand) only is awarded as compensation. The Secretary, District Legal

Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to give the compensation to the

father of the victim after proper enquiry.

43. A copy of this Judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost and a
copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur, as per
provisions of law.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court onthisythe 2™ day of
November, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah) SPECIAL
JUDGE, SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation.takenyand transcribed by me:

Smt..R. Hazarika, Steno
GO Sell 8 GT pe fa fh

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8

Exhibit 1

Exhibit 2

Exhibit 2(1) & 3(1)
Exhibit 3

Exhibit 4

Exhibit 5

Exhibit 4(1),5(1) 26(1:
Exhibit 6

Page 14 of 14

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- Sri Susanta Dutta, complainant,
‘ Smti Shyamali Dutta,

- Phulesa Khatoon,

- Smti Jonaki Kurmi,

- Sri Bhaskar Debnath,

- Miss Juhi Gogoi,

= Victim Miss X,

- SI Gokul Sonowal,, I-O.

EXHIBITS.

:- Ejahar,

:- statement of victim-u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
:- Signature of Judl. Magistrate

:- order dated 03-05-2018

:- Sketch_map

- Chargesheet.
Signature of the I.O.
~ Case diary of Thelamara PS Case No.67/18.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
