IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE AT BARPETA.

Present :- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com., LL.B.,AJS,
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 17 OF 2017
(G.R. Case 439 of 2016)
Sarthebari P.S. Case No 31 of 2016
State of Assam

-versus-

Sri Gajendra Baishya @ Gajen Baishya
S/O Late Namala Baishya

Resident of Sarukhetri,

P.S. Sarthebari,

District-— Barpeta ee Accused.
APPEARANCES :

For the State : Sri Lalit Ch. Nath, learned P.P., Barpeta.
For the Accused : David Ledger, learned Advocate, Barpeta.

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 342, 506 & 376 OF THE INDIAN PENAL
CODE READ WITH SECTION 4 & 14 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN
FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012.

 

 

Date of Charge : 23.05.2017,
Date of Prosecution evidence : 01.07.2017, 31.07.2017, 18.11.2017,
18.01.2018, 08.03.2018 & 14.06.2018,

Date of Statement of accused : 13.07.2018,

Date of Argument : 07.02.2019,

Date of Conviction : 16.02.2019,

Date of Sentence Hearing &

Judgment : 22.02.2019

JI U D GM EN T

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Sarthebari P.S. Case No 31 of

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 1 of 23
2016 under section 120(B)/342/506 of the Indian Penal Code Read With 4/14 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was registered on the basis of
a FI.R. lodged by Smti. Rinkumoni Deka, mother of the victim (hereinafter referred
to as 'X').

In the aforesaid FI.R. dated nil (Exhibit -2) the informant Smt.
Rinkumoni Deka (P.W.1), who is the mother of the victim girl (X), alleged interalia
that since 4/5 months prior to 24.01.2016 the accused used to rape her minor
daughter occasionally, by putting her in fear, by confining her in his shop house. The
accused also threatened her not to disclose the matter to anybody otherwise he
would publish her obscene video and she would be killed. Lastly on 23.01.2016 at
about 2:30 PM, the accused, with the intention to rape her, confined her in his shop
house. However, neighbouring people and some minor boys witnesses the incident
and rescued her from the shop of accused. The accused fled away from the place of
incident.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-in-charge, Sarthebari
P.S., the same was entered in General Diary Register vide G.D.E. No.476, dated
24.01.2016 and subsequently, the same was registered as Sarthebari P.S. Case No
31 of 2016 under section 120(B)/342/506 of the Indian Penal Code Read With 4/14
of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the court of investigation, the victim girl was medically
examined by the doctor, her statement under station 164 of CrPC was recorded by
the learned Magistrate. Police, on completion of investigation, filed charge sheet in
the case against the above named accused Sri Gajendra Baishya under section
342/506 IPC R/W section 4/14 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences
Act, 2012 vide charge sheet No.171/2016.

2. My learned Predecessor-in-office received the case record alongwith
the case diary of the case from I.0. of the case. Accused was summoned. On
appearance of accused, copy was furnished to him by my learned Predecessor-in-

office.

3. Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents

submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the learned counsel for the

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 2 of 23
accused and the prosecution in this behalf, charges were framed against the accused
u/s 342/376/506 IPC R/W section 4/14 of the Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012, which was read over and explained to the accused, to which,

the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During the court of trial, O7(seven) number of witnesses including
the victim, her parent, the Medical Officer and the I/O were examined on behalf of
the prosecution to prove the charge u/s 342/376/506 IPC R/W section 4/14 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of the above
named accused was recorded u/s 313 of CrPC. The accused denied all the alleged
incriminating materials against him. He further stated that the informant Rinkumoni
Deka purchased furniture worth Rs.8000/- by paying only Rs.1000/-. The remaining
Rs.7000/- was due to him for which he entered into argument with the informant. At
last, he stated that the informant had lodged false case against him. He claimed

himself to be innocent. He denied to adduce evidence in his defence.

5. I have heard Mr. Lalit Ch. Nath, learned Public Prosecutor of Barpeta
for the State as well as Mr. David Ledger, leared Defence Counsel for the accused,
who is facing trial for commission of offence u/s 342/376/506 IPC R/W section 4/14
of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6. Now the points for determination before this court are as follows ---
(1) Whether on 23.01.2016 at about 2:30 PM at village Byash Kuchi
within the jurisdiction of Sarthebari Police Station, the accused wrongfully
confined Bijita Deka, aged about 12 years, daughter of the informant
Rinkumoni Deka, for one day and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s 342 of the Indian Penal Code ?

(2) Whether the accused committed criminal intimidation by
threatening Bijita Deka, aged about 12 years, daughter of the informant
Rinkumoni Deka, with injury to her person, reputation or to commit
forceful rape on her and thereby liable for committing an offence u/s 506

of the Indian Penal Code?

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 3 of 23
(3) Whether the accused committed rape on Bijita Deka, aged about 12
years, daughter of the informant Rinkumoni Deka and thereby liable for
committing an offence u/s 376 of the Indian Penal Code?

(4) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the
victim, aged about 12 years, at the same time and place and thereby
committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of the Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ?

(6) Whether the used the victim girl for pornographic purposes by
directly participating in pornographic act and thereby liable for
committing an offence 14 of the Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 ?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF

 

7. To decide the above points and sections of law, let us examine,
analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses alongwith the relevant
documents.

PW-1 (Smt. Rinkumoni Deka) is the informant, who stated in her
deposition in court, that she lodged the FIR of this case. Incident took place before 1
Y2 years from the date of her deposition at about 2:30 PM. On the date of incident,
the victim went to play cricket. The accused called her and told that he will make a
cricket bat for her. She deposed that the accused has timber shop near their house.
The victim girl went to the shop of the accused and the accused made her sit on a
bench and tied her mouth. The accused then went out from his shop and returned
back after some time. The accused showed her one pen and told the victim that if
she makes hue and cry, then he will record the incident through that pen. He also
threatened to kill her if she discloses the matter to others. Then accused made her
lie on a bag and committed rape on her. By that time, the boys, who were playing,
came in search of the victim, to the shop of accused. The accused then went out by
locking the door of his shop. When the boys and girls asked him as to who was
inside his shop, then the accused replied that nobody is there. However, the children
could notice the victim inside the shop of accused through hole in the bamboo

fencing of the shop of the accused. Then they called one teacher namely Bijay

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 4 of 23
Barman. By this time, the accused returned back. Then the said teacher asked him
to open his shop, but the accused did not open his shop. Then the people after
breaking the bamboo fencing, brought out the victim girl from the shop of the
accused.

The informant further deposed that she lodged the FIR after hearing
the incident from the victim. The victim was medically examined and her statement
was recorded by the learned Magistrate. She disclosed the age of the victim as 12
years and she was a student of Class IX at the relevant time. She exhibited the FIR
as Ext.1 and Ext.1(1) to be her signature.

During cross examination, she stated that the victim is her third
child. She denied that she did not state before the police that the victim went to play
after coming from school; she was called by accused who told her that he will make
a_ bat for her; then she went to his shop; accused tied her mouth and went outside
the shop and returned back; that he threatened the victim that he will record
everything by showing a pen to her; that he will assault her if she discloses the
matter to her parents; then he raped her by making her lied on a bag. She also
denied that she did not make statement before the police as told by her
hereinabove.

PW further stated that she does not remember the date of birth of the
victim and police did not seize the wearing apparel of the victim. All the defence
suggestions which were put to her during cross examination were denied by the
informant i.e. PW1.

PW-2, who is the victim of this case, deposed in the court that she
knows the accused. Incident took place at about 2:00/2:30 PM before 1 '% year
from the date of her deposition. She was playing cricket with some boys at the
relevant time. Accused called her in a shop and told that he will make one bat for
her. The accused gagged her mouth after closing the door of his shop. She was
wearing a half pent and top. The accused opened her half pent. She protested, but
the accused did not free her. The accused opened his long pent, he inserted his male
part into her private part. The accused also told hat he has made video of the
incident and he will show the same to the villagers in the village if she does not
come, on his call. Afterwards the accused used to call her after 3 /4 days or 5/6

days. When she did not come, then accused told her that he will show the video to

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 5 of 23
the public. Then out of fear, she used to go to his shop as and when the accused
called her. The victim stated that the accused indulged in sexual act with her as he
did earlier. The victim deposed that when she attained puberty, the accused used to
wear balloon at the time of indulging sexual act with her. The accused did sexual act
with her for 4/5 months. She deposed that due to the sexual act committed by the
accused, blood came out from her vagina. The accused used to tell her to remain
silent whenever she made complaint of getting hurt in the sexual act. The accused
did sexual intercourse wit her before 10 days of lodging this case. The accused also
called her three days afterwards. The boys, who used to play with her, saw the
accused calling her. The boys also called the nearby people. Then the accused put
her under a table and covered her with the bag and told her not to go out. The
accused did not open the door of his shop even though he was called by one Sir. The
accused fled away and many people came. Then one Sailen brought her out from his
shop by cutting the bamboo fencing of the shop of the accused.

The victim exhibited her statement made before the Magistrate as
Ext.2 and Ext.2(1) to 2(5) are her signatures. The victim also deposed that the
accused pushed her though a hole in his shop to go out, but by this time public
gathered there. She also claimed that she has stated all this things before the police.

During cross examination, she has stated that she gave her
statement before the police after three days of the incident at the police station. She
further deposed that the accused called her to his shop by saying that he will make
a bat for her while she was playing with Kankan Deka, Ajay Deka, Manas Deka,
Gourab Deka, Chinmoy Deka. She told that she went with the accused after telling
the boys that they should keep on playing. On the first day of incident, she came out
from the shop of the accused after 25/30 minutes without telling anything to those
boys. She stated that she did not make hue and cry as the accused threatened her.

She could not state as to whether she told before the police that the
accused used to call her after 3/ 4 days or after 5/6 days; that she did not go to
accused initially; but when the accused threatened her to show the video while
going to school; then she went to his shop out of fear; that on each occasion
accused indulge in sexual act with her; that blood came out from her vagina; that
she used to complaint to the accused that she got pain, but the accused used to tell

to remain silent.

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 6 of 23
She also told that she never made hue and cry as the accused
threatened her to show the video. She denied that she deposed before the
Magistrate as tutored by her parents. She also denied that she has deposed against
the accused on being tutored by her mother who had to pay Rs.7000/- to the
accused for purchasing furniture from the accused.

PW3-Biju Bharali @ Biju Barman deposed that the accused is
having a furniture shop opposite to the road. He was called by one Sailen Baishya by
stating that some young boys have gathered there. He was also told that the victim
is inside the shop which was locked from outside.

On reaching there, he noticed that the lock outside the furniture shop.
Then he sent back the boys from that place. After five minutes the accused came
and he told him to open the lock. But the accused told him that he will come after
some time after having a betel nut (Tamul). Then Sailen Baishya broke the bamboo
fencing of the shop of accused and brought out the victim after taking permission
from the owner of the furniture shop namely Dhanjit Bharali.

During cross examination, he told that he did not see any incident
and police recorded his stated after 2/3 days of the incident.

He denied that he did not state before the police as stated in the
court. He, however, admitted that he did not ask the victim about the incident.

PW4- Debajit Bharali deposed that the incident took place on
23.01 and he noticed gathering of people near the shop of accused at about
2:30/3:00 PM.

Defence has declined to cross examine him.

PW5- Sri Dhiren Pathak, who is also having a shop adjacent to the
shop of the accused, deposed that the incident took place at about 3:00 PM. He
deposed that the shop of accused is not visible from his shop. Later, he came to
know that the victim was found inside the shop of the accused which was locked
from outside.

During cross examination the witness deposed that he does not
know anything about the incident.

PW6- Dr. Bharati Das, who was posted at FAAMCH, Barpeta on
25.01.2016 at Medical & Health Officer. She deposed that she examined the victim

and found as follows--

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 7 of 23
History:- On 23.01.2016 Gajen Baishya had forceful sexual intercourse at around 2:30-
3:00 PM. From last 4/5 months he was doing this with her in the Furniture shop he
owns. Allegedly he also has video recoding of the sexual acts. He used condoms
allegedly during sexual intercourse.

Physical Examination:-

Identification marks:- A mole in front of neck.

Height :- 155 CM. Weight:- 55 Kg.

Chest girth at nipple level:- 88 Cm. Abdominal girth at navel level:- 78 Cm.

General built & appearance : Average,

Voice : Female type

Teeth : 28

Permanent : 28

Breast : Developing

Puberty(as told by the individual): Approximately 5 months ago.

LMP(as told by the individual): Approx 1 month ago.

Mental Condition:- Sound

Gait:- Normal

Intelligence: Average

Bodily injuries:- Bite mark on both the cheeks

Pubic hairs: Growing

Vulva(Labia majora & minora):-Healthy looking

Hymen:- Tear present.

Vagina:- Admits 1 finger. Fresh tear present from post comisure to upward on post
vaginal wall (approx 1cm)

Cervix and Uterus : Not palpable per abdominally, : Healthy

Vaginal swab collected.

Result of vaginal swab smear examination:-Spermatozoa not seen in the vaginal swab
after microscopic examination.

Result of X-Investigation: Plate No. R-12 MLC Dated-27-1-2016

Wrist Joint: Epiphyseal union around wrist is not completed.

Elbow Joint:-Epiphyseal union around elbow completed

Shoulder Joint :- Epiphyseal union around shoulder not completed

Pelvis:-Epiphyseal union around iliac crest and around ischial tuberosity not completed.

Opinion:-

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 8 of 23
(1) No sign of recent sexual intercourse.

(2) Injury on genital area present as described above.

(3) Age is above 14(fourteen) years and below 16 (sixteen) years.
PW6 exhibited her report vide Ext.3 wherein Ex.3(1) is her signature and Ext.3(2) is
the signature of Prof. & Head of the Deptt. of Forensic Medicine, FAAMCH, Barpeta.

During cross examination she stated that her medical report with
regard to age of the victim is based on the report of the Radiologist. The report of
the Radiologist has not been enclosed with her report. The hymen can be torn or
ruptured if the victim is a sports person and drives bicycle or participates in any
other sports activities.

PW7-Braja Haloi, the I/O of the case who divulged in his testimony
that on 23.01.2016 he was working s S.I. of Sarthebari Police Station and he was
entrusted with the investigation of the case. During investigation he visited the place
of incident where he found the victim and many persons. He examined the
witnesses there. He also drew sketch map of the place of occurrence, which he
exhibited as Ext.4 wherein Ext.4(1) is his signature. He produced the victim before
the doctor for medical checkup. The victim was also produced before the learned
Magistrate for recording her statement u/s 164 CrPC. He also examined the other
witnesses who were acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case. On
completion of the investigation he submitted the charge sheet against the accused
persons under section 120(b)/342/506/ IPC R/W section 4/14 of POCSO Act. Ext.5 is
the charge sheet and Ext.5(1) is his signature.

During cross examination he stated that he examined the witness
Dhanjit Bharali u/s 161 CrPC. He admitted that he did not seize the wearing apparel
of the victim.

He denied that witness Sri Rinkumoni Deka(PW1) stated before him
that the victim went to play after coming from school; that she was called by the
accused who told her that he will make a bat for her; that then she went to his
shop; that the accused tied her mouth and went outside the shop and returned
back; that he threatened the victim that he will record everything by showing a pen
to her; that he will assault her if she discloses the matter to her parents; that then
he raped her by making her lied on a bag.

The I/O also deposed that witness Biju Bharali(PW3) did not state

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 9 of 23
before him that he was called by Sailen Baishya that the victim was inside the shop
of the accused; that he saw Gajendra coming to his shop; that he told him to open
the door, but he went to market to have a betel-nut; that the boys again assembled

there; that, later on, he heard that the accused had raped the victim.

8. From the close perusal of the evidence on record, it is seen that the
victim (PW2) and Sri Biju Bharali @ Biju Barman are the star witnesses of the case.

The victim (PW2) during her statement stated that Incident took place
at about 2:00/2:30 PM before 1 1% year from the date of her deposition. She was
playing cricket with some boys at the relevant time. Accused called her in a shop
and told that he will make one bat for her. The accused gagged her mouth after
closing the door of his shop. She was wearing a half pent and top. The accused
opened her half pent. She protested, but the accused did not free her. The accused
opened his long pent, he inserted his male part into her private part. The accused
also told hat he has made video of the incident and he will show the same to the
villagers in the village if she does not come on his call. Afterwards the accused used
to call her after 3 /4 days or 5/6 days. When she did not come, then accused told
her that he will show the video to the public. Then out of fear, she used to go to his
shop as and when the accused called her. The victim stated that the accused
indulged in sexual act with her as he did earlier. The victim deposed that when she
attained puberty, the accused used to wear balloon at the time of indulging sexual
act with her. The accused did sexual act with her for 4/5 months. She deposed that
due to the sexual act committed by the accused, blood came out from her vagina.
The accused used to tell her to remain silent when she made complaint of getting
hurt in the sexual act. The accused did sexual intercourse wit her before 10 days of
lodging this case. The accused also called her three days afterwards. The boys, who
used to play with her, saw the accused calling her. The boys also called the nearby
people. Then the accused put her under a table and covered her with the bag and
told her not to go out. The accused did not open the door of his shop even though
he was called by one Sir. The accused fled away and many people came. Then one
Sailen brought her out from his shop by cutting the bamboo fencing of the shop of
the accused.

The victim exhibited her statement made before the Magistrate as

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 10 of 23
Ext.2 and Ext.2(1) to 2(5) are her signatures. She also claimed that she has stated
all this things before the police.

But the I/O (PW7) during his cross-examination disclosed that the
victim did not state before him that she was playing with five nos. of boys; that
accused to call her 3-4 or 5-6 days of the incident; that she did not go to accused
initially; but when the accused threatened her to show the video while going to
school; then she went to his shop out of fear; that on each occasion accused indulge
in sexual act with her; that blood came out from her vagina; that she used to
complaint to the accused that she got pain, but the accused used to tell to remain

silent.

9. Learned counsel for the accused has argued that the mother of the
victim i.e. informant(PW1) of the case had enmity with the accused as she is to pay
Rs.7000/- to the accused for purchase of furniture from the accused.

The accused in his statement u/s 313 CrPC also stated that he is to
get Rs.7000/- from the informant on account of purchase of furniture by informant
(PW1). He further stated that for this reason he also entered into altercation with
the informant(PW1). The accused, at last, stated in his statement u/s 313 CrPC that
for this reason only the informant, who is mother of the victim has lodged this false
case against him.

However, the plea of defence does not hold water as accused has not
adduced any evidence or any materials to prove that he owed Rs.7000/- from the
informant to accept or even consider his plea that the informant has lodged false
case against him.

Moreover, the evidence of independent witness Biju Bharali @ Biju
Barman (PW3), who is a teacher by profession, wholly belies the plea taken by the
defence side.

PW3 in his evidence categorically deposed that on the date of incident
he came to the furniture shop of accused on being informed that the victim is inside
the shop of the accused and the door is locked from outside. He further deposed
that he asked the accused to open the door, but the accused did not unlock the door
of his shop rather he told that he will go to market to have 'tamul' (betel-nut). Later

on, the victim was recovered from inside the shop of the accused after breaking the

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 11 of 23
bamboo wall of the shop of the accused.

Though defence side argued that this witness did not exactly stated
as to what he deposed before the police in his statement u/s 161 CrPC. It was
further argued that even the I/O (PW7) confirmed thatPW3 did not state before him
that PW3 was called by one Sailen Baishya who told that the victim is inside the
shop of the accused, then he asked the accused to open the lock of his shop, but he
went to market to have 'tamul'(betel-nut).

However, upon perusal of his(PW3) statement u/s 161 CrPC it is seen
that he PW3 clearly deposed before the I/O that on the relevant day he came to the
shop of accused on being informed by villagers and could see the victim from the
hole in the bamboo wall of the shop of accused. He categorically stated that the
victim was recovered by breaking the bamboo wall of the shop of accused with the
help of villagers. The victim also stated that the accused raped her inside his shop
with a promise that he will make a wooden cricket bat for her.

Thus, this independent witness (PW3) has supported the evidence of
the victim in all material particular. Mere marginal variations in the statement of a

witness cannot be dubbed as improvement or contradiction.

10. In a case reported in 2018 CRI.L.J. 4731, a single Judge of the
Hon'ble Patna High Court, has held that ---

31. In relation to discrepancies in the evidence of witnesses, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in State of U.P. v. Naresh, reported as (2011) 4SCC 324:
(2011 AIR SVCW 1877, observed as follows: "30. In all criminal case,
normal discrepancies are bound to occur in the depositions of witnesses
due to normal errors of observation, namely errors of memory due to
lapse of time_or due to mental dispositions such_as shock and horror at
the time of occurrence. Where the omissions amount to a contradiction,
creating a serious doubt about the truthfulness of the witness and other
witnesses also make _material improvement while deposing in the court,
such evidence cannot be safe to rely upon. However, minor contradictions,

inconsistencies, embellishments or improvements on trivial matters which

do not affect the core of the prosecution case, should not be made a
ground on which the evidence can be rejected in its entirely. The court has

 

 

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 12 of 23
to form_its opinion about the_credibility of the witness and record a
finding as to whether his deposition inspires confidence.

"9. Exaggerations per se do not render the evidence brittle. But it
can be one of the factors to rest credibility of th prosecution version,
when the entire evidence is put in_a crucible for being tested on the
touchstone of credibility (Ed. As observed in Bihari Nath Goswami v. Shiv
Kumar Singh (2004) 9SCC 186. p. 192. para 9.).

Therefore, mere marginal variations in the statements of a witness
cannot be dubbed as improvements as the same may be elaborations of
the statement made by the witness earlier. The omissions which amount
to_contradictions_in_ material particulars i.e. go to the root of the
case/materially affect the trial or core of the prosecution's case, render

the testimony of the witness liable to be _ discredited. (vide
sin a al ) (Emphasis supplied)

32. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Lal Bahadur v. State (NCT of
Delhi), reported as (2013) 4 SCC 557: (2013 AIR SCW 2161), reiterated
the principle laid down in Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai V. State of
Gujrat, reported as (1983) 3 SCC 217: (AIR 1983 SC 753), in relation to
minor discrepancies in evidence of eye-witnesses, as follows---

“(1) By and large a witness cannot be expected to possess a
photographic memory and to recall the details of an incident. It is not as a

video tape is replayed on the mental screen.

(2) Ordinarily it so happens that a witness is overtaken by events,
the witness could not have anticipated the occurrence which so often has

an element of surprise. The mental faculties therefore cannot e expected
to be attuned to absorb the details.

(3) The powers of observation differ from person to person. What

one may notice, another may not. An object or movement might emboss
its image on one person's mind, whereas it might go unnoticed on the part

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 13 of 23
of another.

(4) By and large people cannot accurately recall a conservation and
reproduce the very words used by them or heard by the. They can only
recall the main purport of the conversation. It is unrealistic to expect a
witness to be a human tape recorder.

(5) In regard to exact time of an incident or the time duration of an
occurrence, usually, people make _their_estimates by guess work on the
spur of the moment at the time _of interrogation. And one cannot expect
people to make very precise or reliable estimates in such matters. Again,
it depends on the_time-sense of individuals which varies from person to
person.

(6) Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall accurately the
sequence of events which takes place in_rapid succession or in a short
time_span. A witness is liable to get confused, or mixed up when
interrogated later on.

(7) A witness, though wholly truthful, is liable to be overawed by
the court atmosphere and the piercing cross-examination made by the
counsel _ and out of nervousness mix_up facts, get confused regarding
sequence of events, or fill up details from imagination on the spur of the
moment. The subconscious mind of the witness sometimes so operates on
account of the fear of looking foolish or being disbelieved though the
witness _is_ giving a truthful and honest account of the occurrence
witnessed by him _— perhaps it is a sort of a psychological defence
mechanism activated on the spur of the moment.”

11. Moreover, the victim and independent witness (PW3) have also been
supported by another independent witness namely Sri Debajit Bharali, who deposed
that on the date of incident at 2:30/3:00 PM he noticed gathering of people, near
the shop of accused. Though he did not depose further, but he supported the

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 14 of 23
versions of PW3 that many people gathered near the shop of accused on the date of
incident.

Similarly, Sri Dhiren Pathak (PW5), who has got a shop near the shop
of accused, deposed in his evidence that he heard on the date of incident victim was

found inside the shop of accused and the door of the shop was locked from outside.

12. Learned counsel for accused in his argument submitted that
prosecution side has failed to examine one Sailen Das, who reportedly rescued the
victim after breaking the bamboo fencing of of the shop of accused. Moreover, the
male children, who used to play with the victim and who called other witnesses to
the shop of accused, have not been examined. So accused is entitled to acquittal at

last on benefit of doubt.

13. In the case of Bipin Kumar Mondal -versus- State of West
Bengal, 2010 (12) SCC 91, the Hon'ble Apex Court reiterated the principle stating
that it is not the quantity but the quality that is material. The honored principle is
that evidence has to be weighed and not counted. The test is whether the evidence

has a ring of truth, is congest, credible, trustworthy and reliable.

14. From the aforesaid exposition of law, it is quite clear that it is not the
number and quantity, but the quality that is material. It is the duty of the court to
consider the trustworthiness of evidence on record which inspires confidence and

the same has to be accepted and acted upon

15. However, from the evidence of PW3 , PW4 & PWS5 it is clear that non-
examination of Sailen Das and other male children of this case is not going to
hamper the credibility of the prosecution case as the independent witnesses have
fully corroborated the version of the victim with regard to material facts and

particular of the case in hand.

16. It is an admitted fact that the I/O of the instant case has not seized
any birth certificate or school certificate of the victim from her parents to prove that

the victim is a child/minor less that 18(eighteen) years as on the date of commission

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 15 of 23
of offence. In the case of Jarnail Singh -versus-State of Haryana, Criminal
appeal No.1209/2010 decided on 01/07/2013, the Hon'ble Apex Court held
that Rule12 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules, 2007 would
be applicable determining age even for a child, who is victim of the crime. The said
rule is as follows :

“12. Procedure to be followed in determination of age.

iii. In every case concerning a child or juvenile in conflict with law, the age of
determination inquiry shall be conducted by the court or the Board or, as the case
may be, the Committee by seeking evidence by obtaining-

a) (i) the date of birth certificate from the school (other than a play

school) first attended ; and in the absence whereon ;

(ii) the birth certificate given by a Corporation or a Municipal Authority or
a Panchayat ;
(111) the Matriculation or equivalent certificates, if available;

b) And only in the absence of either (i), (ii) r (iii) of clause (a) above, the
medical opinion will be sought from a duly constitution of Medical Board, which will
declare the age of the juvenile or child. In case exact assessment of the age cannot
be done, the court or Board or as the case may be, the Committee, for the reasons
to be recorded by them, may, if considered necessary, give benefit to the child or
juvenile by considering his/her age on lower side within the margin of one year and,
while passing orders in such case shall, after taking into consideration such evidence
as may be juvenile, or the medical opinion, as the case may be, record a finding in
respect of his/her age and either or the evidence specified in any of the clauses (a)
(1), (ii), (iii) or in the absence whereof clause (b) shall be conclusive proof of the age

as regard such child or the juvenile in conflict with law.

17. In the present case, since document as prescribed under Rule 12(3)
(a) are not available, the prosecution has relied upon Exhibit-3, the report of doctor
Dr. Bharati Das (PW6), according to which, the age of the victim was above 14 years
and below 16 years. There is nothing placed on record to create a doubt about the

bone/medical age of the victim child as determined by the Medical Officer. From the

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 16 of 23
cross-examination of the doctor it is nowhere seen that the opinion regarding age of
the victim was not a conclusive report. So, as per section 2(d) of The Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, the victim is found below 18(eighteen)
years of age at the time of incident.

It is pertinent to mention here that the version of the victim that the
accused had raped her find full support from the Medical report of the Medical
Officer (PW6) who stated in her report that---

Vagina:- Admits 1 finger. Fresh tear present from post comisure to upward
on post vaginal wall (approx 1cm). The Medical Officer also found Bite mark on
both the cheeks of the victim as per her report (Ext.3). The finding of fresh tear on
the vagina of the victim supported the testimony of minor victim beyond reasonable

doubt about the alleged offence committed upon her.

18. It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole evidence of a
child witness is permissible, if such witness is found competent to testify and the
court, after careful scrutiny of its evidence.

In the case of Datttu)§ Rarao Sakhare-versus-State of
Maharastra, report in (1997)5 SCC 341, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that
--"A child witness if found competent to depose to the facts and reliable
one, such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other words, even
in the absence of oath, the evidence of a child witness ca be considered
under section 118 of Indian Evidence Act, provided that such witness is
able to understand the questions and able to give rational answers
thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof would
depend upon the circumstance of each case. The only precaution which
the could should bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child
witness is that the witness must be reliable one and his/her demeanor
must be like any other competent witness and there is no likelihood of

being tutored”.

19. In another case, i.e. Pancchi-versus- State of uttar Pradesh, AIR
1998 SC 2726, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that --- “It is not the law that if

a witness is a child, his/her evidence shall be rejected, even if it is found

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 17 of 23
reliable. The law is that evidence of a child witness must be evaluated
more carefully and with greater circumspection because a Child is
susceptible to be swayed by what others tell them and this child witness

is easy prey to tutoring”.

20. The ratio as laid down in the above case is that the testimony of a
child witness is attributed the same kind of credibility that it attached to the
statement of any other witness if the testimony is consistent. In the present case,
the victim (PW2) has been consistent on the material particulars with regard to the

incident. Further, there is full corroboration by other witnesses.

21. Though it was argued on behalf of the accused that he has been
falsely implicated in the instant case by the informant of the case due to enmity.
However, in the light of the evidence of the victim (PW2) as well as the other
witnesses i.e. PW1, PW3, PW4, PW5, PW6, this court can presume under section 29
of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 that it was the
accused, who had committed sexual assault upon the victim and sexual intent
required as per section 7 of POCSO Act, 2012 can also be presumed in the light of
section 30 of the Act. It was for the accused to rebut that neither he had any sexual
intent nor he had committed the offence by proving to the contrary. No evidence
was led by the accused in his defence to prove his innocence. On the contrary, the
defence put forwarded by the accused in this case is not consistent and therefore,

same is required to be disbelieved.

22. The accused Gajendra Baishya @ Gajen Baishya was charged u/s
342/376/506 IPC R/W section 4/14 of the Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012. However, from the evidence tendered by the victim (PW2) it can
safely be presumed that the offences committed by the accused falls u/s 4 of the
Act.

I do not find sufficient evidence against the accused for committing
offence u/s 14 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Hence,
the accused is acquitted from the said charge.

Section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 18 of 23
2012 provides punishment for penetrative sexual assault. The section 4 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 reads as follows---

Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which shall
not be less than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for

life, and shall also be liable to fine.

23. In view of my aforesaid discussions in the forgoing paragraphs, I am
of the opinion that prosecution has been able to prove the case against the accused
Gajendra Baishya @ Gejen Baishya under section 342/506 IPC R/W section 4 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

As the accused is being punished for committing offence u/s 4 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, so, I am not going to punish
him u/s 376 IPC in terms of the provisions of section 42 of the Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

However, I find the accused guilty for committing offence u/s 342/506

IPC.
Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.
Date: 16.02.2019
SENTENCE HEARING TAKEN ON 22.02.2019
24. Accused Gajendra Baishya @ Gajen Baishya is heard on the point of

sentence. The accused has submitted that he is a married person having wife and
two minor children. There is none to look after them in his absence. He is the sole
earning member of his family. Moreover, he is an ill person. Further, he was never
prosecuted in any other criminal case, prior to the case in hand. Hence the

accused prayed for leniency.

25. I have heard learned Defence Counsel for the accused as well as Sri

Lalit Ch. Nath, learned Public Prosecutor, Barpeta.

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 19 of 23
Accused Gajendra Baishya @ Gajen Baishya is sentenced to undergo
RIGOROUS IMPRISONMENT for 7(seven) years and also to pay a find of Rs.10,000/-
(Rupees ten thousand), in default of payment of fine, to suffer RIGOROUS
IMPRISONMENT for 3(three) months for the offence under section 4 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

I also sentence the accused to undergo imprisonment for 1(one) year
each for commission of the offence under section 342/506 IPC. I am of considered
opinion that considering the nature of offence, this sentence shall do justice.

All the punishment shall run concurrently.

The period of detention already undergone by the accused during
investigation and trial shall be set off from the period of imprisonment imposed on
him under section 428 of CrPC.

26. Now, coming to the aspect of compensation to the victim, who is a
minor girl, the Hon'ble Apex Court has time to time observed that subordinate courts
trying the offences of sexual assault have the jurisdiction to award the compensation
to the victims being an offence against the basic human right and violation of Article
21 of the Indian Constitution.

In the case of Bodhisattwa Gautam -versus- Subhra
Chakraborty, AIR 1996 SC 922, it has been held by the Hon'ble Apex Court that
the jurisdiction to pay compensation has to be treated to be a part of overall
jurisdiction of the courts trying the offences of rape, which is an offence against

basic human rights as also the Fundamental Rights of Personal Liberty & Life.

27. The concept of welfare and well being of children is basic for any
civilize society and this has a direct bearing on the state of health and well being of
the entire community, its growth and development. It has been time and again
emphasized in various legislation, international declarations as well as the judicial
pronouncements that the Children are a “supremely important national asset” and
the future well being of the nation depends on how its children grow and develop.
Therefore, in order to provide restorative and compensatory justice to
the victim, I hereby direct the Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Barpeta to

grant adequate compensation to the victim(PW2). The said amount shall be for the

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 20 of 23
welfare of the victim.
28. Free copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused immediately.
29. Send copy of this Judgment to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under
section 365 Cr.P.C.

Another copy of this judgment be sent to the Secretary. D.L.S.A.,

Barpeta for information.

30. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 22nd day of
February, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta.
Typed by me

(Kavery Das, Stenographer)

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 21 of 23
APPENDIX

 

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Rinkumoni Deka, the informant,
P.W.2 = Bijita Deka, the victim,

P.W.3 = Biju Bharali @ Biju Barman,
P.W.4 = Debojit Bharali,

P.W.5 = Dhiren Pathak,

P.W.6 = Dr. Bharati Das, the M.O.,

P.W.7 = Bhaja Haloi, the I.0.,

(B) Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1 = Ejahar,

Ext.1(1) = Signature of the Rinkumoni Deka,

Ext.2 = Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC,

Ext.2(1) to 2(5) = Signature of victim,

Ext.3 = Medical Report.

Ext.3(1) = Signature of Dr. Bharati Das,

Ext.3(2) = Signature of Prof. & HOD of Forensic Medicine,
FAAMCH, Barpeta.

Ext.4 = Sketch Map,

Ext.4(1) = Signature of I.0.,

Ext.5 = Charge Sheet,

Ext.5(1) = Signature of I.0.

(C) Defence witnesses: Nil.

(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 22 of 23
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.

Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special POCSO 17 of 2017 Page 23 of 23
