Page 1 of 10

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. i 37 OF 2017

(Under Section 366/493 of the IPC read
with section u/s 4 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 1425 of

2015)
Present :- Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
Prosecutor State of Assam
-VSs-
Accused :- Md. Ajijur Rahman,

Son of Md. Hazarat Ali,
Resident of Boralimora
Police Station — Sootea,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam

Date of framing Charge :- 04/08/2017
Date of Recording Evidence :- 28/08/2017, 03/10/2017,
& 03/11/2017.

Date of examination of accused u/s 31 :- 30/11/2017

Cr.P.C.

Date of Argument :- 30/11/2017

Date of Judgment :- 30/11/2017

Counsel for the Prosecution :- Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Counsel for Accused :- Mr. D. Borah, Advocate.
Page 2 of 10

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md. Ajijur Rahman is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 366/493 of the IPC read with section
4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or
about 7 p.m. of 15-06-2015 while informant’s sister just come out from
their house towards the road, accused suddenly appeared with a motor
cycle picked up her and took her to some unknown place. Hence, this

prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the informant Muksidul Islam before the
O/C of Sootea police station on 15-06-2015. On receipt the ejahar, the
Officer-In-Charge of Sootea Police Station registered the case vide
Sootea P.S. Case No. 98/15 u/s 143/366(A) of IPC. After completion
of usual investigation, the O/C Sootea Police Station filed charge sheet
u/s 143/366(A) of the IPC against the accused Md. Ajijur Rahman.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, I framed charge u/s 366/493 of the IPC read with section
4 of the POCSO Act, against the accused Md. Ajijur Rahman and
particulars of the charge was read over, explained to the accused to

which he pleads not guilty and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined as many as
5 (five) witnesses. After examination of the victim, learned counsel for
the accused submitted to close the evidence as to the statement of the
victim no way supported the prosecution case. Even she admitted that
accused married her by executing Kabil Nama, thereafter she lived with
the accused as husband and wife for one day and next day police
recovered her. Despite she admitted in cross-examination that at
present she does not have any enmity with the accused and do not
have any allegation against the accused. She has no any objection even
if accused is enlarged on bail. On perusal of the statement of the victim,

it appears that victim by giving good bye to the prosecution case stating

 
Page 3 of 10

that she has no any objection if the accused is enlarged on acquittal and
she herself eloped with the accused. With the statement of the victim, I
think that prosecution case would not develop even if examined the
other witnesses. Speedy trial is the right of the accused person.
Considering the materials and facts as narrated above, the prosecution
evidence is closed. Accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the
allegations made against the accused and evidence appears against the
accused are put before him for explanation where he denied the

allegation and evidence and declined to give defence evidence.

6. I have heard arguments put forwarded by learned advocate of
both the parties.

7. The point for decision in this case is that -
(1) "Whether on or about 15-06-2015, at about 7 p.m.,
the accused kidnapped (abduct) Miss X, the sister of the
informant, with intent (or knowing it to be likely) that
she might be compelled to marry the accused against
her will or inorder (or knowing it to be likely) that she
might be forced (or seduced) to illicit intercourse with
the accused and that you thereby committed an offence
punishable U/S 366 of the IPC ?

(2) “Whether the accused on the same, date time and
place and thereafter by deceit, caused a certain woman,
to wit Miss X , who was not lawfully married to you to
believe that she was lawfully married to you and in that
belief, cohabit or have sexual intercourse with you and
that you thereby committed an offence punishable U/S
493 of the IPC ?

(3) “Whether on the same, date time and place the
accused committed penetrative sexual assault on "Miss
X” (victim) and thereby committed an_ offence
punishable under section 4 of the Protection of Child

from Sexual Offences Act?

 
Page 4 of 10

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence

on record.

9. PW 1 MUksidul Islam, the complainant of this case, stated that
the incident took place on or about 7 p.m. of 2015. The victim is his
younger sister. Accused Ajijur Rahman kidnapped his younger sister at
about 7 p.m. from the front side of their house. Accused took the victim
in his lap towards the back side of their house. He came to know about
the incident at about 9/10 p.m. on that day from his mother. On that
very day he filed the ejahar. After 2/3 days accused and victim were
recovered and handed over to police station. At the time of incident, the
age of his victim sister was 17 years 8/9 months. Police seized the birth
certificate of the victim. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his
signature. Ext. 2 is proved in original copy of transfer certificate issued

by Head Master of Siporia High School.

In cross-examination, he admitted that he has not stated
before police and in the FIR that while the victim girl went to another

room accused suddenly kidnapped her. Accused is a carpenter.

10. PW 2, Abdul Khaleque, stated before this court that he knows
the accused. Najima Begum is his daughter. Complainant is his son. At
the time of incident, the age of his daughter is 15/16 years. The
incident took place about two years ago in the evening at about 6/7
p.m. On the day of incident he was at my home. Accused along with
two others forcefully kidnapped his daughter gagging her mouth when
she was outside the house. He saw the accused kidnapped his
daughter. Then he raised hulla and called his wife. After four days they
found his daughter at the police station. After recovery of the girl he has

not asked anything about the incident to her.

In cross-examination he admitted that there are 3-4 persons
reside in between his house and the house of the accused. Police had

not interrogated him in connection with this case. It is only that day he

 
Page 5 of 10

has deposed before this court for the first time. At the relevant time he

was in bed.

11. PW 3 Musstt Joshnara Begum, the mother of the victim stated
that she knows the accused. Around 2 — 22 years at about 6 p.m the
incident had taken place. On the date of occurrence, he was inside his
kitchen. On the date of occurrence at about 6 p.m. accused along with
others forcibly kidnapped his daughter by gagging her mouth when she
was coming from one house to another. When he came out after
hearing her cry then she saw accused Ajijur Rahman but she could not
identify the others 2 or 3. When she was searching for her daughter and
in absence of his daughter his son had filed a case. She was kept in
some unknown place for 2-3 days and after that they met their
daughter at the police station. Police came and asked about the incident

and recorded her statement.

In cross-examination, she admitted that after recovery of her
daughter by police she went to police station. She along with 4-5 others
went to the police station to meet her daughter. She along with her
daughter accompanied by his son Muksidul Islam and one Jahirul Islam
came to Tezpur court for recording her statement. At the time of
incident while she made due and cry around 7/8 persons gathered at
the place of occurrence. She cannot identify any of them as there was a
dark set in. However, she can identify two persons namely Abdul Rashid
and Ubiadul Rahman of their voices. The incident took place around
2-22 years back. At the relevant time her husband was blind and also
deaf. On hearing her hue and cry her husband came out. He asked her

about the incident and she told him about the whole incident.

12. PW 4 Ajaharuddin deposed that he knows the accused Ajjijur
Rahman. He also knows the victim girl. She is her aunty. At the time of
incident, the age of her victim aunty was below 18 years. Incident took
place about two years ago. He has not seen the incident. On the day of
incident, at about 6/ 7 p.m. he heard hue and cry in the house of victim.

Victim resides near their house. If a hulla took place in the house of the

 
Page 6 of 10

victim they have heard easily from their house. Then he rushed to the
house of his victim aunty. There he came to know from his Daddy
(grand-mother) that accused took Najima Khatoon to the house of his
relatives. After about 2 days Najima was recovered from the house of

Ajijur’s relative. He has met her at Sootea Police station.

13. PW 5 victim Miss “X” deposed that she knows the accused
person. His name is Azizur Rahman. He is their neighbour. The incident
took place on 15-06-2015 at about 6.30 PM. At the relevant time she
was at her study room. During that time accused along with Ubaildul
Islam and other two miscreants came to their house. During that time
Mohida Khatun who is their neighbour called her mother outside the
house. The miscreants were come to her house and covered her eyes
with clothes. Initially, they dragged her and then they took her to the
house of sister of accused in a vehicle situated at Jalighat near
Biswanath Chariali. During that time she raised alarm. The name of the
sister of the accused is Afrooza khatun. He kept her there for 3/4 days.
On the very first day she slept with his niece, and then he took her to
the “Kaji” of Biswanath Chariali. There he married her by executing
“Kabilnama”. Thereafter, she lived with the accused together as
husband and wife for one day. In the next day police recovered her.
Thereafter, police took her for medical examination and then produced
her before the learned Magistrate, Tezpur for recording statement under
Section 164 CrPC. Ext.3 is the statement under Section 164 CrPC and
Ext. 3(1) and Ext.3(2) are her signatures. Police seized her School

Certificate.

In cross-examination, she admitted that at Biswanath Chariali
she resides four days. Within the four days, he performed Kabilnama.
After two days of her taking, accused executed Kabilnama and
thereafter, she stayed together with the accused as husband and wife.
Police recorded her statement. After recovery by the police, she stayed
one night at the police station. In the next day police took her to KCH,

Tezpur for medical examination and then to the Court. She has talked

 
Page 7 of 10

with her family members in the police station. She further admitted that
at present, she does not have any enmity with the accused and does
not have any objection against the accused. She does not know any
Akbar Ali and Amiruddin. She does not have any objection, if the

accused is enlarged on acquittal.
14. These much is the evidence of the prosecution.

15. The accused pleads total denial while his statement was

recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. he also denied to give defence evidence.

16. Ihave heard the arguments put forwarded by learned counsel of
both sides.

17. To prove the charge u/s 366 of the IPC, the prosecution must

prove -

“() kidnapping by the accused or abduction by
him;
(ii) that the person so kidnapped or abducted is

@ woman;

(iii) that the accused then intended, or knew that
It was likely,

(a) That such woman might or would be
compelled to marry a person against
her will, or

(b) That she might or would be forced or
seduced to i/licit intercourse.”

18. But here in this case, the victim herself giving goodbye to the
prosecution case by stating that she has no any objection if the accused
is enlarged on acquittal. Besides stating that, she has no any allegation
against the accused. The victim initially though stating that accused has
kidnapped her by taking her in his lap in the night but it is impossible
for a person to take a woman of 26 years of age in lap. Had accused
been really kidnapped her by taking her in his lap she could have raised

alarm but she did not do so. Besides according to her she was brought

 
Page 8 of 10

to “Kaji” at Biswanath Chariali where “Kabil Nama” was executed but
before Kaji she did not raise any protest that she did not have consent
to sit marriage with the accused. Neither she raised protest before Kaji
that she was forcibly kidnapped by the accused against her will implied
that she went with the accused with her own consent. Therefore, the

allegation of charge u/s 366 of the IPC is failed.

19. To prove the charge u/s 493 of the IPC read with section 4 of

POCSO Act, prosecution must prove —

(i) that the accused caused the woman in question to

believe that she was lawfully married to him;

(ii) that he induced that woman to cohabit with him
under that belief:

(iii) that he caused such belief by deceit.

20. Here in this case, the victim stated that initially on the day of
taking till execution of “Kabil Nama” there is no any evidence that she
had been cohabited by the accused. In the statement of the victim it is
already stated that after execution of “Kabil Nama” she had co-habited
with the accused for the first time. When the “Kabil Nama” was
executed without any protest it is presumed that the marriage was held
lawfully, so the question of sexual intercourse with a woman who was
not lawfully married is not arise. Therefore, the charge u/s 493 of the
IPC is also failed.

21. To be charged against an accused under POCSO Act, the victim
must have been below 18 years but according to the victim she was 26
years of age on the day of incident. As because, she made statement
before the court on 3 November, 2017, on that day, her age was 28
years. Therefore, the case cannot be come under any of the section of
POCSO Act.

22. In view of the aforesaid discussions, I am bound to hold that

the prosecution has failed to prove any of the charge levelled against

 
Page 9 of 10

the accused person beyond any reasonable doubt. As such, the accused
Md. Ajijur Rahman is entitled to get acquittal on benefit of doubt.
Hence, accused Md. Ajijur Rahman is acquitted and set him at liberty
forthwith.

23. The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

24. Send back the GR Case record being No.1425/15 to the learned

committal court along with a copy of this order.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 30 day
of November, 2017.

(A.K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(A.K. Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Transcribed and typed by me.

(R. Hazarika)Steno.
Page 10 of 10

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 - Sri Muksidul Islam, complainant
Prosecution Witness No.2 I Abdul Khaleque.
Prosecution Witness No.3 is Mustt Joshnara Begum,
Prosecution Witness No.4 = Ajaharuddin,
Prosecution Witness No.5 te Victim.
EXHIBIT
Ext. 1 : Ejahar.
Ext. 2 : Transfer Certificate.
Ext. 3 : 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR.
