IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: ShriS. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

 

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 13 (DH) 2018.

U/S 4 of POCSO Act.
The State of Assam
- Versus —

Shri Dipchand Das,

S/O Late Khargeswar Das,

Vill. Akajan Santipur,

P.S. Silapathar,

Dist.- Dnemaji. oc ccc cce eee Accused

Appearance:
Shri A. Fogla,

Public Prosecutor ss For the State

ShriP.Neog, Advocate ——......... For the Accused

Dates of prosecution evidence :27-06-2018,25-07-2018,20-08-2018

10-10-2018, 03-01-2019.

Date of argument : 22-04-2019.

Date of Judgment : 30-04-2019.
‘

JUDGMENT

iS The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 27-01-2018
complainant- Smt. Chandra Prova Das lodged an ejahar with the Silapathar
Police Station alleging interalia that accused Dipson Das had illicit sexual
intercourse with her daughter Smti ‘x’ and as a result Smti ‘Xx’, became
pregnant. It is also stated in the ejahar that the accused admitted the above
fact in presence of the villagers.

a On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused person- Shri Dipchand Das u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

a On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 4 of POCSO Act against accused-
Dipchand Das. The charge was read-over and explained to the accused
person to which the pleaded not guilty. The prosecution, in order to prove its
case, examined eight witnesses. At the closure of the prosecution evidence
statements of the accused persons were recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence
plea is of total denial. However, the defence adduced no evidence in support
of their case.

4. Point for determination :

(1) That you, about a few months back from the date of filing
the ejajhar on 27-01-2018 at Village-Akajan Santipur Gaon under
Silapathar Police Station, committed penetrative sexual assauilt on
your own daughter Smti ‘X’ and thereby you committed an offence
punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

5. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
6. PW1 Smti Chandraprabha Das stated that she is the
complainant. She knows the accused. She knows the victim ‘X’. The incident
took place in the month of January 2018. About 6 months before the incident
victim got married with a person. Accordingly, the victim became pregnant.
But pregnancy was terminated. Thereafter victim’s father got her back home
as her husband was already married and she was not happy with him. She
stayed with her parents for about 3-4 months. One day victim’s mother came
to her and told her that her daughter was not having menstruation and she
asked her if she had any instrument to test pregnancy of her daughter. Next
day she did pregnancy test on the victim and found that victim conceived. On
being asked as to who was responsible for her pregnancy victim’s mother told
her that her father made her pregnant. She informed the matter to her
neighbors and they questioned victim's father and victim’s father confessed
that he made her daughter pregnant. Then the accused was handed over to
Silapathar police. She lodged complaint at Silapathar police station. At the
time of incident the victim was aged about 15 years. Ext.1 is ejahar and
Ext.1(1) is hersignature. Ext.2 is her 164 Cr.CP statement and Ext.2(1) and
Ext.2 (2) are hersignatures.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that the accused is related to
her. She does not know with whom she (victim) was married. She denied the
defence suggestion that the victim did not become pregnant and while
staying in her husband's house and the pregnancy was not terminated. She
denied that she did not state before the IO that the victim became pregnant
and her pregnancy was terminated. She denied that she did not state before
police that after termination of the pregnancy victim was got to the house of
her parents. She did not state before the IO that one day victim’s mother
came to her and told her that her daughter was not having menstruation and
she asked her if she had any instrument to test pregnancy of her daughter.
Next day she did pregnancy test on the victim and found that victim
conceived. She denied that on being asked as to who was responsible for her
pregnancy, victim’s mother told her that her father made her pregnant. She
denied that the victim got married with a person and then she became
pregnant. Shedenied that she has given false evidence against the police. She
did not make any enquiry regarding age of the victim as per age certificate.

i. PW2 Sri Banamali Kakati stated that he knows the complainant
Chandraprabha Das. He knows the accused. He also knows the victim ‘xX’. The
incident took place about 3/4 months back. There was a meeting in the
village where he was present. In the said meeting accused confessed before
the villagers present that he had sexual intercourse with his daughter and
made her pregnant. Then the villagers handed him over to police. He gave
statement before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.PC. Ext.3 is the statement u/s 164
Cr.PC. Ext.3(1) and Ext.3(2) are his signatures.

In cross-examination PW2 stated that Victim was married at the

time of occurrence. She came to her parent's house about 3 months before
the occurrence and stayed there. He does not know whether the victim was
already pregnant before the incident. She denied that the accused did not
confess before the villagers present that he had sexual intercourse with his
daughter and made her pregnant.
8. PW3 Smt. ‘x’ (victim) stated thatshe knows the complainant.
Accused Dipchand Das is her father. About one year before the incident she
got married with a person. However, she left her matrimonial home as she
could not continue conjugal life. While staying at her parents’ house she was
not having periods and it was circulated in the village that she had some illicit
affair with the accused (father). Her father has not physically abused her. It
was a rumour being circulated in the village and she was compelled to file
case against her father. She gave statement before Magistrate as tutored by
village people. Ext.4 is the her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. Ext.4(1) and Ext.4(2)
are her signatures.

In cross-examination the victim stated that her father has never
subjected her to sexual assault. She did not become pregnant. To her, it was
a conspiracy and her father has been dragged into the matter without any
offence.

9. PW4 Smti Punya Das stated that she knows the complainant.
Accused Dipsand Das is her husband. Victim Smti ‘x’ is her daughter. The
incident took place about 6 months back before the incident. About six
months before filing complaint this case her daughter got married with a
person. She stayed with her husband in the matrimonial home for about two
months and she became pregnant. But, the pregnancy was terminated. The
person with whom her daughter got married had already been married as
such her husband got her daughter back home. While staying in their house,
her husband had sexual intercourse with her daughter. They came to know
about the illicit affair when her daughter became pregnant again. On being
asked her daughter disclosed that her father had sexual intercourse with her.
Her husband also confessed before the villagers that he had had sexual
intercourse with his daughter. In this matter Smti Chandraprabha Saikia took
the lead to unearth the incident. And Chandraprabha Saikia also lodged
complaint at the police station. Police examined her u/s 161 Cr.PC and also
produced her before Magistrate and she gave her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC.
Ext.5 is the statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. She put thumb impression on Ext.5 as
Ext.5(1).

In cross-examination PW3 stated that though she has state that
her daughter terminated her pregnancy, she developed at her matrimonial
home she had no direct knowledge of such termination of pregnancy. She
denied that she has not seen the act of sexual intercourse between her
husband and her daughter with her own eyes. It is a fact that she has not
Stated before police and Magistrate that she saw her husband and her
daughter involving sexual activity. She denied that she have brought
allegation against her husband on suspicion.

10. PW5 Niranjan Mahanta stated that he knows the complainant
and accused. He also know the victim Smti ‘X’. The incident took place about
Ww”

Vf Judge,

pivernai.

4

6 months ago. The victim became pregnant while staying in her parent's
house. Then the villagers noticed the pregnancy although the victim did not
disclose about it. Thereafter, on questioning by the villagers the victim
disclosed that her father had sexual intercourse with her. The villagers also
questioned the accused and he confessed that he had sexual intercourse with
his daughter. Then the villagers decided to lodge complaint with police. Police
examined him u/s 161 Cr.PC and also produced him before Magistrate and
hegave statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. Ext.6 is statement u/s 164 Cr.PC and
Ext.6(1) and Ext.6(2) are his signatures.

In cross-examination PW5 stated that he knows that the victim

got married with a person and then she left her husband's company and
stayed in her parent’s house. He also knows that while she staying with her
husband she became pregnant. He had not seen the act of sexual intercourse
between accused and his daughter. From the villagers he came to know
about the incident.
11. PW6 Rupam Das stated that he knows the complainant and
accused. He also knows the victim girl. The incident took place about 6
months ago. The victim became pregnant while staying in her parent’s house.
Then the villagers noticed the pregnancy although the victim did not disclose
about it. Thereafter, on questioning by the villagers the victim disclosed that
her father had sexual intercourse with her. The villagers also questioned the
accused and he confessed that he had sexual intercourse with his daughter.
Then the villagers decided to lodge complaint with police. Police examined
himu/s 161 Cr.PC and also produced him before Magistrate and he gave
statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. Ext.7 is statement u/s 164 Cr.PC and Ext.7(1) is his
Signature.

In cross- examination PW6 stated that he knows that the victim
got married with a person and then she left her husband’s company and
Stayed in her parent’s house. He had not not seen the act of sexual
intercourse between accused and his daughter. From the villagers he came to
know about the incident.

12. PW7 Dr. Khagen Doley stated that on 31-01-2018 he was
posted at Dhemaji Civil Hospital as Senior Medical Officer. On that day on
police requisition vide PS Case NO.43/2018 u/s 4 of POCSO Act, he examined
Smti *X’ aged about 16 years. She was identified and escorted by WPC Jonaki
Chetry. On examination he found as follows:

History of Sexual assault- 4 months back and history of
amennorea 4 months. On examination abdorninal lumb is found and age 16
weeks pregnant uterus size. PV not allowed to examine.

Secondary sexual character poorly developed.

Opinion- No signs of forceful sexual act and she is advised to
consult Gynochologist as soon as possible and ultrasound abdomen was
advice and X-Ray of No.1 wrist, No.2 pelvic, No.3 shoulder.

Ext.8 is the medical report and Ext.8(1) is his signature.

In cross —examination Doctor stated that X-Ray was advised
for age determination but he did not receive actual report at the time of my
submission of report. He did not examine the private part of the victim as
she was pregnant.

id PW8 Kudrat Ali stated thaton 27-01-2018 He was posted at
Silapathar PS as Attached Officer. On that day OC received an ejahar from
Smti- Chandra Prabha Das and registered a case vide Silapathar PS Case
No.43/2018 u/s 4 of POCSO Act. and entrusted him for investigation.
Complainant and other witnesses were examined at the PS. Local public
apprehended the accused and handed over to him. He formally arrested the
accused and sent him to court. He visited the PO and drew sketch map. He
recorded statement of witnesses u/s 161 Cr.PC at the PO. He produced the
victim and two other witnesses before Magistrate and their statements were
recorded u/s 164 Cr.PC. He seized one school certificate of the victim and he
collected the medical report of the victim. After completion of investigation,
yudoe
geo

he I filed charge-sheet against the accused Dipchand Das u/s 4 of POCSO
Act. Ext.9 is the sketch map asnd Ext.9(1) is his signature. Ext.10 is the
seizure list and Ext.10(1) is his signature. Paper Ext.1 is the age certificate
issued by concerned PHC and seized by him. Ext.11 is the Charge sheet and
Ext.11(1) is his signature.

In cross- examination PW4 has not stated before him that she
saw the accused and the victim having sexual intercourse at the relevant
time. He denied the defence suggestion that the victim who was married to a
man got pregnant from her husband at the relevant time. He has not
obtained pregnancy test report or ultrasound report regarding the allege
pregnancy of the victim from doctor.

Appreciation of Evidence :

14. From the discussion of the evidence on record it appears that
prosecution has examined the victim and the complainant and other
witnesses in support of its case. Pw1 is the complainant. In her evidence she
stated that victim’s mother told her about the victim being impregnated by
her father. Mother of the victim has been examined as Pw4. In her evidence
she stated that her daughter was married to a person. After the marriage her
daughter stayed with her husband for about two months and she became
pregnant. However her daughter left matrimonial home and started to live in
her house. Pw4 also stated that victim’s pregnancy from her husband was
terminated. But again she became pregnant and it was discovered that
victim’s father had illicit sexual intercourse with her daughter.

15. Now, let me examine the evidence of the victim has been
examined as Pw3. In her evidence Pw3 stated that she got married with a
person but she could not continue her conjugal life and she left her
matrimonial home and started staying at her parent’s house. She also
categorically stated that her father never had sexual intercourse with her.
Further she stated that rumoured was being spread in the village and the
villagers compelled her lodge complaint against her father.
16. Other non-official witnesses also spoke that the accused
confessed that he committed sexual intercourse with his daughter. The
doctor/MO has been examined as PW7 on examination of the victim found
her 16 months pregnant.
17. I have carefully considered the evidence on record. From the
evidence it is found that though prosecution relied upon the prosecution
evidence to show that the accused is involved in the commission of the
alleged offence the ,victim is not supportive, and she has denied involvement
of the accused in the commission of the alleged offence.
18. The victim being the key witness, in her evidence on during
trial, has not implicated the accused and thereby creating a doubt over
prosecution case.
19. In view of what has been discussed above I find prosecution
has failed to prove the charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act beyond all reasonable
doubt.

ORDER:
20. In the result I find the accused Dipchand Das not guilty u/s 4
of POCSO Act. Accordingly he is acquitted of the charge leveled against him.
Set him at liberty forthwith.

al, Judgment is pronounced in open court.
22s Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 30%
day of April 2019.

2 9
Gag\"'

Special Judge
Judan
toes he
