1
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 39 OF 2016
Under Section 4 of P.O.C.S.O. Act, 2012

Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta
State of Assam.
-versus-

Anowar Hussain @ Anowar Ali ... Accused.

APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Mr. A. Kayem, learned P.P.
For the accused : Mr. Faijur Rahman, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 13-06-2017
Argument heard on :13-06-2017

Judgment delivered on : 13-06-2017.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that on 18-07-2016 one Rubina Khanom
Ali lodged an FIR alleging that at about 3.30 P.M., keepping her daughter (victim)
aged about 13 years at home she had gone to see water of river Brahmaputra
along with the wife of Anowar Hussain. Taking advantage of her absence accused
Anowar Hussain called the victim to his house to do some work and while she
came, accused Anowar Hussain keepping her inside the house along with
accused Ajijul @ Aju closed the door from outside. Accused Ajijul @ Aju
committed rape on the victim. While she made hue and cry accused Ajijur
threatened her to kill and gagged her mouth with cloths. Hearing shouting of the
victim, out of fear accused Anowar Hussaim called the informant and took her to
his house. While Anowar opened the door she found accused Ajijul @ Aju and

the victim in naked position.
2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started investigation
and after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet against accused
Ajijul Ali @ Aju as Juvenile Conflict with Law and accused Anowar Hussain @
Anowar Ali U/S 4 of POCSO Act 2012.

3. Accused Anowar Hussain @ Ali is appeared before this court, copies were
furnished to him and after hearing both the sides charge was framed against him
under section 4 of P.O.C.S.O. Act, 2012. Charge was read over and clearly
explained to the accused person to which he has pleaded not guilty and claimed
for trial.

4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined only two witnesses.
Examination of the accused person under section 313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.
5: Point for determination:-

Whether on 16-07-2016 at about 3.30 P.M. the accused person committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim who is the minor daughter of the
informant ?

Decision and reasons thereof:

7. In this case the prosecution has examined only two witnesses. One is the
informant and other is the victim.

8. The informant as PW1 has deposed that on the day of occurrence she has
gone to see water of river Brahmaputra. The victim was in the house of the
accused person. The father of the accused is her maternal uncle. After seeing the
water she had gone to the house of the accused and saw several persons
gheraowed his house. On being asked the father of the accused replied that
nothing was happened. But the villagers demanded to file the case. Before arrival
of the victim the villagers wrote an FI.R and took her signature. After sometime
while she asked the victim about the occurrence she replied that nothing was
happened. Police produced the victim before the Magistrate for recording her
statement and also medically examined her. Accused Ajijul already married the
victim.

9. The victim as P.W.2 has deposed that on the date of occurrence her
mother had gone to see water and she had gone to the house of her grand
father Jainal. Accused Anowar is the son of Jaynal. While she was in the house of

the accused some people gheraowed his house. She could not talk with her
3

mother. The villagers compelled her mother to file the case. Later on, she
informed her mother that no occurrence took place. Police came and took her
before the Magistrate. The Magistrate recorded her statement. She was
examined by the medical officer also. She made the statement before the
Magistrate as tutored by the police. Ext.2 is the said statement. Now she got
married with accused Ajijul. Anowar did not do any offence.
10. ‘After going through the evidences of the prosecution witnesses,and the
statement of the victim recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C it is found that no way the victim
has stated that the accused person committed rape on her. In her statement
recorded U/S 164 CrP.C she has stated that the accused Ajijul @ Azijur
committed rape on her . The victim has not made a single whisper that accused
Anowar committed any rape or sexual assault on her. In her statement recorded
u/s 164 CrP.C also she has not stated that accused Anowar committed rape on
her. She made the allegation against Ajijul. But now Ajijul married her and the
charge-sheet was also submitted against accused Ajijul showing him Juvenile
Conflict with Law.
11. Under such circumstances it is clear that the prosecution has failed to
prove the guilt of the offence against Anowar Hussain. Therefore, the accused
person is acquitted and set at liberty.
12. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are extended
for another period of six months from the date of this judgment under section
437-A Cr.P.C.
13. | Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati High Court
and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365 Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 13" day of June,
2017.

Dictated & corrected by me.
Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
APPENDIX
(A)Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1 :FIR
Ext.1(1), 1(2) & 1(3) : Signatures of Rubina Begum.
Ext.2 :Statement under section 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext.2(1) :Sig. of Rinki Knhanam.
Ext.2(2) :Sig. of Rinki Knhanam.
Ext.2(3) :Sig. of Rinki Khanam.
(B)Defence Exhibits:Nil.
(C)Exhibits produced by witnesses:Nil.
(D)Court Exhibits:Nil.
(E)Prosecution witnesses:
P.W.1 : Miss. Rubina Begum.

P.W.2 : Miss Rinki Khanam.
(F)Defence witnesses: Nil.

(G)Court witnesses: Nil.

Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta
