DISTRICT : DHUBRI

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHUBRI

PRESENT: - = Shri A. Chakravarty, M.A., LL.M., AJS

Special Case No. 44 of 2015

U/S 366 (A) IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act
Corresponding to G.R. Case No. 1636/2015

State of Assam

Dhaneswar Ray

Charge framed on
Evidence recorded on

Statement recorded on
Arguments heard on

Judgment delivered on

beens Complainant
Versus

... Accused

04-04-2016

14-06-2016, 10-08-2016, 13-12-2016, 01-04-2017
and 25-04-2017

17-05-2017
26-05-2017
26-05-2017

Advocates who appeared in this case are:

Shri Maniruz Zaman, P.P. for the Prosecution

Shri Shah Suza Goni & Shri Aminur Rahman, Advocates, for the Defence

1. This case was registered on 20-04-2015, at Golakganj Police Station, under
Sections 366(A)/342 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short “the IPC”) and Section
8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short “the POCSO
Act”), based on a First Information Report (in short “the FIR”) filed by one Kamala

JUDGMENT

Kanta Ray against accused Dhaneswar Ray.
Special Case No. 44 of 2015

2. The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 18-04-2015, at about 09:00
a.m., at village-Boro Charaikhola, under Golakganj Police Station, the daughter of
the informant, who was a student in Class-IX (hereinafter referred to as “the victim
girl”) went to her school situated at Chariali but, as she did not return home from
the school, the informant searched for her and came to know from reliable sources
that the accused Dhaneswar Ray had kidnapped her from the PWD road and
confined her in a secret place. Therefore, on 20-04-2015, the informant lodged an
FIR of incident with the Golakganj Police Station against the accused Dhaneswar Ray.
3. Based on the FIR, the Officer-in-Charge of the Golakganj Police Station
registered the case No.241/2015, for commission of offences under Sections
366(A)/342 IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused Dhaneswar Ray
and investigated the case.

4. During the course of investigation, the police recovered the victim girl,
examined her medically and recorded her statement under section 164 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in short “the CrP.C.”) through the Magistrate.
Statements of several witnesses were also recorded and after completion of
investigation, a charge sheet was filed for commission of offences punishable under
Sections 366(A)/342 IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused

Dhaneswar Ray. Hence, this case.

5. During trial, my learned predecessor framed charges under Section 366(A) IPC
and Section 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused. When the contents of the
charges were read over and explained to the accused, he pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.

6. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined eleven witnesses. The

accused did not examine any witness.

7. In his examination under section 313 CrP.C., the accused has denied the
prosecution case and has stated that the allegations levelled against him are false
and baseless.

8. The points for determination in this case are:-
Special Case No. 44 of 2015

I) Whether on 18-04-2015, at about 09:00 a.m., at village-Boro Charaikhola,
under Golakganj Police Station, the accused Dhaneswar Ray kidnapped the
victim girl from the lawful guardianship of her father with intent to force or

seduce her to illicit intercourse with another person?

IIT) Whether on 18-04-2015, at about 09:00 a.m., at village-Boro Charaikhola,
under Golakganj Police Station, the accused Dhaneswar Ray sexually

assaulted the victim girl?
ITI) If so, what punishment he deserves?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

9. I have carefully examined the evidence on record, gone through the relevant
documents on record and after hearing the arguments advanced by the learned

counsels for both the sides, give my decision on the above points as follows:-

POINT NOS. I & II

10. As both the points are inter-related, both the points are discussed and

decided jointly.

11. ~— ‘The victim girl (PW-1) has deposed that on the day of the alleged incident, at
about 01:00 PM, the accused kidnapped her from her school and took her to the
house of his uncle’s father-in-law and committed sexual intercourse with her.
Thereafter, the accused took her to a temple and married her against her will and
took her to his house. The police recovered her.
12. In the cross-examination, she has stated that she does not remember the
place where the temple in which accused had married her is situated. She did not
tell the Chowkidar or any of the teachers of the school about the alleged occurrence.
Six persons reside in the house of the father-in-law of the maternal uncle of the
accused. She did not tell them about the accused taking her to their house and
committing sexual intercourse with her. After the marriage at the temple,
2
Special Case No. 44 of 2015

accompanied by one Rajesh Ray, she went to the house of the maternal uncle of the
accused. She does not remember when she was born. She failed thrice in the same
class. The name of her husband is Atul Ch. Das. After three months of the alleged
occurrence and after she attained majority, she was married to him. She has denied
the suggestion that her age was 20 years. She has stated before the police that she
did not have physical relation with the accused. She came into contact with the
accused over phone. As the accused was a daily wage worker, her father was not
willing to give her in marriage with the accused. She had returned to her house on
the same day she had gone with the accused. She has denied the suggestion that
the accused did not commit sexual intercourse with her without her consent.

13. PW-2 Shri Kamala Kanta Roy, the father of the victim girl has deposed that as
the victim girl did not return till 06:00 p.m., he informed the police about the matter
and the police arrested the accused and the victim girl. After a few days, he had
married off the victim girl with another person.

14. In the cross-examination, he has stated that he has filed the case after two
days of the alleged incident. On the day of the alleged incident itself, the victim girl
had returned to his house. He does not remember what was written in the F.I.R. He
has not given any reason for the delay in lodging the F.I.R.

15. PW-3 Shri Dalim Roy, an elder brother of the victim girl has deposed the he
does not know anything about the alleged incident as at the relevant time, he was in
Shillong.

16. PW-7 Shri Jiten Roy, another elder brother of the victim girl has deposed that
he knows the accused. The accused had kidnapped the victim girl when she was
proceeding towards her school. His father lodged an FIR of the incident with the
police. The police recovered the victim girl along with the accused. He does not
know what the age of the victim girl was at the time of the said incident.

17. In the cross-examination, he has stated that at the time of the alleged
incident, he was in Shillong. The Investigating Officer did not interrogate him. He
cannot say why he has been cited as a witness.

18. PW-4 Shri Dhirendra Nath Adhikary has deposed that he knows the accused

and the victim girl. He did not see the alleged incident. He is the next door
4
Special Case No. 44 of 2015

neighbour of the accused. One day, at around 02:00 a.m., the mother of the accused
called him to their house and when he went to the house of the accused, he saw
that the police were taking away the accused and the victim girl. He accompanied
the police along with the victim girl. He had heard that accused had kidnapped the
victim girl from her house.

19. In the cross-examination, he has stated that the police did not interrogate
him.

20. PW-5 Shri Putul Ch. Roy has deposed that he knows the informant, the

accused and the victim girl. He does not know about the alleged incident.

21. PW-6 Shri Joyram Roy, a junior assistant of the Birat Nagar Chariali High
School has deposed that the victim girl was a student Class-IX of their school. He
does not know anything about the alleged incident. The police had seized one
certificate of the victim girl from their school vide Ext-3 seizure list. Ext-3 (1) is his
signature therein.

22. PW-10 Md. Abu Bakkar Sheikh, an Assistant Teacher of the Birat Nagar Chariali
High School has deposed that on 06-06-2015, at about 12:00 noon, the Golakganj
Police went to their school and seized a certificate of the victim girl from their school
vide Ext-3 seizure list. Ext-3 (2) is his signature therein.

23. PW-8 Raju Roy has deposed that he knows the victim girl, but does not know
the accused. He had heard that the victim girl went missing on the way to the
school. The police have recovered the victim girl along with the accused.

24. PW-9 Dr. (Mrs.) Rinku Ahmed, the Medical Officer who had examined the
victim girl has deposed that she did not find any sign of recent sexual intercourse
and assault on the victim girl. Ext-4 is the report prepared by her.

25. In the cross-examination, she has stated that the victim girl was not willing for

conducting Radiological test for determination of her age.

26. PW-11 ASI Abdus Sabur, the Investigating Officer of the case is merely a

formal witness.
Special Case No. 44 of 2015

27. It is crystal clear from the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses that the
victim girl and the accused were recovered from the house of the accused. Further,
though it is alleged that the victim girl was kidnapped by the accused, it is crystal
clear from her testimony that she had eloped with the accused, went with him to the
house of the father-in-law of the uncle of the accused and thereafter, married the
accused in a temple. Though, the victim girl has stated that the accused has married
her against her will, the same is unbelievable as she did not tell the members of the
family of the father-in-law of the uncle of the accused that the accused had
kidnapped her or forcibly taken her to their house and also did not tell the priest of
the temple where the accused had married her that the accused had forcibly taken
her to the temple to marry her against her will. Therefore, it is crystal clear that the
victim girl eloped with the accused of her own accord and also married him. Further,
though the victim girl has deposed that the accused had committed sexual
intercourse with her in the house of the father-in-law of the uncle of the accused,
she has not deposed that the accused committed sexual intercourse with her against

her will or committed rape on her.

28. Let us now decide whether at the time of the alleged incident, the age of
the victim girl was below 18 years and hence, the accused can be held guilty of
committing the alleged offences as the consent to sexual intercourse or marriage of

the victim girl were no consent in the eye of law?

29. The prosecution did not prove what the age of the victim girl was at the
relevant time. Though the PW-6 and PW-10 have deposed that the police seized the
age certificate of the victim girl from their school vide ext-3 seizure list, the said
certificate the prosecution did not exhibit the certificate and the certificate is also not
available in the case record. Further, the PW-9 has categorically stated in the cross-
examination that the victim girl refused to undergo Radiological test for
determination of her age, it cannot be held that at the time of commission of the
alleged offence, the age of the victim girl was below 18 years and as such she was a
child.
Special Case No. 44 of 2015

30. In view of the above, the accused cannot be held guilty of committing the
alleged offences as there is no evidence to hold that at the time of the commission
of the alleged offence, the age of the victim girl was below 18 years. Therefore, the
accused must, at least, be given the benefit of the doubt. The point is decided in the

negative, accordingly.

ORDER

31. In the result, from the facts and circumstances of the case and above
discussion, I hold that the prosecution has failed to bring home the charges under
Section 366(A) IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused Dhaneswar
Ray beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, I acquit him giving him the benefit of the
doubt. His bail bond stands cancelled. He is set at liberty forthwith.

32. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on this the 26" day of May,
2017, at Dhubri.

(A. Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Dhubri
Dictated & corrected by me.

(A. Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Dhubri
Special Case No. 44 of 2015

APPENDIX

1. PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

PW- 1 Mrs. Kalyani Das

PW- 2 Shri Kamala Kanta Roy
PW- 3 Shri Dalim Roy

PW- 4 Shri Dhirendra Nath Adhikary
PW- 5 Shri Putul Ch. Roy

PW- 6 Shri Joyram Roy

PW- 7 Shri Jiten Roy

PW- 8 Shri Raju Roy

PW- 9 Dr. (Mrs.) Rinku Ahmed
PW-10 Md. Abu Bakkar Sheikh
PW-11 ASI Abdus Sabur

2. PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:

Exhibit- 1 Statement of the victim girl u/s. 164 Cr.P.C.
Exhibit- 2 FIR

Exhibit- 3 Seizure list

Exhibit-4 Medical Report

Exhibit-5 Site plan

Exhibit-6 Charge-sheet.

(A.Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Dhubri
