IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 110/2018
(Arising out of Barpeta P.S. Case No. 1740/2018)
U/S 12 of POCSO Act

PRESENT: Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi, AJS,
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:- 18.04.2019

State of Assam
- Vs -
Rehan Sikdan......... Accused

Date of Recording Evidence on — 02.07.2019 & 22.10.2019
Date of Hearing Argument on — 22.10.2019.
Date of Delivering the Judgment on—- 22.10.2019.

Appearance :
Advocate for the State------------------ Mrs. P. Das, Learned Addl. P.P.
Advocate for the Accused-------------- Faijur Rahman, Learned Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that, on 20.08.2018 one Jabed Ali lodged an

FIR in Barpeta PS. alleging inter alia that his daughter (X real name with held) age
about 12 years while proceeding to school and back home accused Rehan Sikdar very
often subjected her torture by giving lewd and sexy signals. The matter was also
informed to the head master of the school, but accused told him to marry his
daughter. It is further stated that on 02.08.2019 while his daughter was proceeding to
school accused restrain her by holding her hands and express to marry her and also

threaten her to kill if she refuse to oblige him. Hence the case.

2. Acting on the information police got a case registered being Barpeta P.S. case
No. 1740/18 u/s 341/294 IPC R/W section 12 of POCSO Act and investigated the case.

3. On completion of investigation, police finally laid the charge sheet against
2

accused Rehan Sikdar u/s 294/341 IPC R/W section 12 of POCSO Act with a view to

stand trial.

4. In due course, when accused entered his appearance in court vide order dated
18.04.2019 having found a prima facie case charge u/s 12 of POCSO Act was framed
against accused Rehan Sikdar. The particulars of the offence on being read over and

explained accused pleaded not guilty and claim trial.

5. During the course of trial, the prosecution examined only 4 witnesses namely
the informant Jabed Ali as PW-1, the alleged victim girl (X real name withheld) as PW-
2, Rashida Begum as PW-3 and Billal Hussain as PW-4. However, considering the
quality of the evidence of the star witnesses namely the informant PW-1 and his wife
PW-3 and the evidence of independent witness PW-4 giving an opportunity of hearing

to the learned Addl. P.P. further prosecution evidence stands closed.

6. Concluding prosecution evidence accused is examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. but he

denied the prosecution evidence as false and misleading.

di The plea of the accused is total denial of the prosecution case. As such, on

being asked accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

8. Now point for determination ;-
.1. Whether on 02.08.2018 and prior thereto accused repeatedly and

consistently follows or watches or made attempts to contact the victim girl
when she went to school and back home by proposing to marry her and
using sound or gestures to that effect as alleged ?

9. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-

I have heard the learned lawyers appearing for both sides and also carefully

scanned the prosecution evidence available on record.

10. Before discussing the evidence on record it is apposite to refer section 11 and
12 as defined in the POCSO Act 2012.
“11. Sexual harassment. - A person is said to commit sexual harassment

upon a child when such person with sexual intent -
(i) utters any word or makes any sound, or makes any gestures or exhibits any
object or part of body with the intention that such word or sound shall be heard, or
such gesture or object or part of body shall be seen by the child: or

(ii) makes a child exhibit his body or any part of his body so as it is seen by
such person or any other person; or

(iii) shows any object to a child in any form or media for pronographic
purpose; or

(iv) repeatedly or constantly follows or watches or contacts a child either
directly or through electronic, digital or any other means; or

(v) threatens to use, in any form of media, a real or fabricated depiction
through electronic, film or digital or any other mode, of any part of the body of the
child or the involvement of the child in a sexual act; or

(vi) entices a child for pornographic purpose or gives gratification therefor.

Explanation — Any question which involves “sexual intent” shall be question of
fact.”

“12. Punishment for sexual harassment. - Whoever, commits sexual
harassment upon a child shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for

a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine. ”

11. Now, on perusal of the offence u/s 11 of POCSO Act it appears that if defines
the nature of the act/acts which constitutes the offence of sexual harassment and
section 12 of the POCSO Act provides punishment for any of the act/acts done by
accused as defined in section 11 of POCSO Act.

12. Here from the evidence available on record particularly the evidence of PW-3
who is the mother of the alleged victim girl and also the evidence of PW-4 who is the
sole independent witness it transpires that the incident occurred about 1 year back.
But the alleged filthy language and sexual comments passed by accused was not
meant or addressed to the alleged victim girl, but towards the wife of accused with
whom he had frequent quarrels. The PW-3 & PW-4 denied having any wrong doing by
accused towards the daughter of informant. On the other hand, PW-1 who is the
informant cum father of the alleged victim though stated that accused disturbed his
daughter by giving lewd and sexy comments while going to school and back home. But
in his cross examination PW-1 stated that accused did not disturb his daughter with ill
intention. Like wise, the evidence of victim girl PW-2 shows that though accused

allegedly addressed her as “Randi” and “Mugy”, but in her cross examination she
4

depose that the case was the result of quarrel between her father and accused person.

13. Now, on careful assessment of evidence of all the four prosecution witnesses
including the evidence of alleged victim girl it is crystal clear that the version of the
alleged victim has not even been supported by her own parents namely PW-1 and PW-

3. Their evidence belies the version of PW-2 regarding the authenticity of the incident.

14. True it is that for sustaining conviction of accused the evidence must be
cogent credible and trust worthy. In the absence of any corroboration from the
independent witnesses the version of the alleged victim is found to be unworthy of

credit for sustaining conviction.

15. It is settle law that conviction can be sustained based on sole testimony of the
prosecutrix provided it convinces the mind of reasonable man about the truthfulness of
the version of the victim. In the present case, as it appears the evidence of alleged
victim do not convince the mind of this court about the trust worthiness of the victim

particularly when her own parents do not support her version.

16. As per section 134 of Indian Evidence Act the number of witnesses is not
material but the quality of evidence counts. In the present case though prosecution
examined four witnesses including the victim but the version of victim has not been
supported by other three prosecution witnesses. In the absence of corroboration in
material particulars it is totally unsafe to hold the accused person guilty on the basis of
conjectures and surmises. The credibility of prosecution witnesses can be tested on the
touch stone of truth, but in the present case as discussed above the truth appears to

be far away not to speak of any corroboration in material particulars.

17. This being the position, this court is of the considered view that prosecution
failed to establish the case against accused Rehan Sikdar u/s 12 of POCSO Act beyond
all reasonable doubt. In the result, this court has no option but to acquit the accused
Rehan Sikdar from the offence u/s 12 of POCSO Act on the ground of insufficient
evidence and set him at liberty forthwith.

18. The terms of bail bond of accused person is extended for a period of 6 (six)
months from to-day as provided u/s 437(A) Cr.P.C.
19. Let a copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District Magistrate,
Barpeta as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.

20. Let the case record be consigned to record room after completing the

formalities.

21. | Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 22nd day of October, 2019,

at Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me

Sd/-
Sd/- (Sri C.B. Gogoi)
(Sri C.B. Gogoi) Special Judge,
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Barpeta.
APPENDIX

The prosecution has examined the following 4 nos. of witnesses:-

PW-1 = Jabed Ali, the informant.

PW-2 = Marjina Khatun Khatun, the victim girl.
PW-3 = Rashida Begum

PW-4 = Billal Hussain.

The prosecution has exhibited the following document :-

Ext. 1 = is the FIR.

Ext. 1(1) = signature of the informant.

Ext. A = the birth certificate.

Ext. A(1) = the photocopy of birth certificate.

Sd/-
(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge,
Barpeta.
