HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE BILASIPARA

Present:- Smti S. Bhuyan, AJS
Special Judge, Bilasipara
Special (POCSO) Case No- 01 of 2019

u/s 4 of POCSO Act
STATE
Versus

Mohibul Hoque @ Mohibul Ali
S/O Lt. Keru Sk.

R/O vill- Satber,

PS- Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri, Assam

Accused person

(Corresponding to GR Case No- 589/18 (arising out of Bilasipara PS case no.
409/18) u/s 4 of POCSO Act)

Advocate appeared:-

For the state:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Special P.P.

For the accused:- Smt. Syeda Afroza Akhtar, Advocate.

Date of institution of the case :- 29-04-18
Date of Framing charge :- 24-01-19
Date of prosecution evidence :- 22-02-19,11-03-19

Statement of accused recorded on _ :- 28-03-19
Date of Argument :- 28-03-19

Judgment delivered :- 10-04-19
2|Page

JUDGMENT
Prosecution Case

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 22-04-18 one Alima Bibi lodged written
ejahar before O/C Bilasipara PS inter alia citing that on 27-04-18 at about 04.30
pm, accused Mohibul Hoque caught hold of her daughter ‘Miss X’ (named
changed herein after read as ‘Miss X’) and thereafter gagging mouth of her
daughter forcefully taken her to another house situated near to her house and
then accused committed forceful sexual intercourse with her daughter ‘Miss X’.
Accused after committing forceful sexual intercourse on her daughter, threatened
her daughter to finish her life if she disclosed the matter to anyone and finally
her daughter ‘Miss X’ narrated about the whole incident to her on 28-04-18.
Investigation

2. Officer in charge Bilasipara PS, on receipt of ejahar from informant Alima
Bibi registered a police case vide Bilasipara PS case no. 409/18 u/s 4 of POCSO
Act and after registration of the case, SI Sanjoy Borgohain was entrusted to
conduct the investigation of the case and after completion of investigation I/O
submitted charge sheet against the accused Mahibul Hoque @ Ali u/s 4 of
POCSO Act and cognizance taken.

Charge

3. After hearing learned counsel for both sides and perusal of material on
record charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused Mohibul
Hoque @ Ali and when charges are read over and explained to the accused
person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
Trial

4. In order to prove the prosecution charges against the accused person,
prosecution adduce evidence of all together 5 number of witnesses and exhibited
3 nos. of documents. PW-1 Alima Bibi, PW-2 Miss X, PW-3 Ennus Ali, PW-4 Md.
Mirajul Hoque and PW-5 Afruja Bibi. Ext-1 Ejahar, Ext-2 statement of PW-2
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C and Ext-3 Seizure list. After closure of the prosecution

evidence, statement of the accused person recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Accused
3|Page

plea is denial, however declined to adduced evidence in support of the plea of
denial.
5: POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:-

i) Whether accused on 27-04-18 at about 04.30 pm at Bilasipara W/N-06,
under Bilasipara PS, committed penetrative sexual assault on informant’s
daughter Miss X?

ARGUMENT
6. I have heard Id. counsel for both sides. It has been argued by the Id.
defence counsel that informant as well alleged victim of this case did not
supported the prosecution case and from their evidence it is reveal that no such
incident was took place as alleged in the ejahar and therefore accused entitled

acquittal.

PROSECUTION EVIDENCE

7. PW-1 Alima Bibi is the informant of the case. She deposed on the day of
incident one family function was going on at her house and at that time she had
altercation with accused and as there was alteration she lodged case against the
accused vide Ext-1. In cross she stated she is an illiterate person and ejahar
was written by one mohori. She stated accused did not commit sexual assault
upon her daughter.

8. PW-2 ‘Miss X’ is alleged victim girl of the case. She deposed informant is
her mother and after lodging of ejahar by her mother, police recorded her
statement and produced her before the court and she made statement before
the court. She deposed Ext-2 is her statement recorded by Ld. Magistrate and
Ext-2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures but presently she cannot recollect what
statement she made earlier before the Magistrate. In cross she stated no
incident was took place with her as alleged by her mother.

9. Evidence of PW-3 Ennus Ali is that informant is his wife, ‘Miss X’ is his
daughter and he knows accused person. After coming home, he got to know that
there was kechal took place at his house between his wife and accused and his

wife lodged ejahar. He further deposed the signature present on Ext-3 is his
4|Page

signature but he does not know why police took his signature. Defence declined
to cross examine PW-3.

10. Evidence of PW-4 Md. Mirajul Hoque is that he has no knowledge why
Alima Bibi lodged ejahar. He did not hear any incident and Alima and ‘Miss X’ did
not report him any incident. Defence declined to cross examine PW-4.

11. PW-5 Afruja Bibi deposed on the day of incident hearing hue and cry she
came out from her house and she noticed accused and informant quarrelling

each other on the village road. Defence declined to cross examine PW-5.

DISCUSSION, DECISION & REASON THERE OF:-
12. Prosecution allegation leveled against accused Mohibul Hoque is that on
27-04-18 at about 04.30 pm at Bilasipara W/N-06, under Bilasipara PS,

committed penetrative sexual assault on informant’s daughter Miss X.

 

13. Admittedly in the case in hand, alleged victim girl is aged about 12 years
and she is under the age of 18 years. Now, let me scrutinized the material and
evidence on record to find out whether evidence on record able to establish
prosecution charges of penetrative sexual assault on ‘Miss X’ by accused Mohibul
Hoque or not.

14. PW-1 is the informant of the case. PW-1 in her ejahar alleged that on 27-
04-18 at about 04.30 pm, accused Mohibul Hoque caught hold of her daughter
and thereafter gagging mouth of her daughter forcefully taken her to another
house situated near to her house and then accused committed forceful sexual
intercourse with her daughter and accused after committing forceful sexual
intercourse on her daughter, threatened her daughter to finish her life if she
disclosed the matter to anyone.

15. PW-1 while adducing her evidence before the court stated on the day of
incident one family function was going on at her house and at that time she had
altercation with accused and as there was alteration she lodged case against the
accused.

16. From the evidence of PW-1 it is seen that she subsequently changed her
statement and bring different story before the court. Evidence of PW-1 made
before the court did not substantiate her statement which PW-1 made in her

ejahar. PW-1 while adducing before the court, she did not state that on the
5|Page

day of incident accused had committed penetrative sexual assault on her
daughter ‘Miss X’.. Thus seen that PW-1 informant of the case did not support
the prosecution case and she totally overturn the prosecution case.

17. PW-2 is alleged victim girl of this case. Evidence of PW-2 is that she does
not know accused Mohibul Hoque and her mother lodged one case and in
connection with said case, police recorded her statement, produced her before
the Magistrate and she made statement before the Magistrate. Cross of PW-2 is
that no incident was took place with her as alleged by her mother in the ejahar.
From scrutiny of evidence of PW-2, alleged victim girl, it is seen that she did not
made any statement against the accused Mohibul Hoque. While adducing her
evidence before the court, PW-2 did not made state that it is the accused
Mohibul Hoque who had committed penetrative sexual assault on her. Cross of
PW-2 pointed no incident took place with her as alleged in the ejahar. PW-2 in
her in chief further stated she cannot recollect what statement she made earlier
before the Ld. Magistrate. Thus seen PW-2 does not substantiate her earlier
statement made before the Ld. Magistrate and inconsistency found in the
statement of PW-2 and therefore prosecution exhibited document Ext-2 cannot
be acted upon in absence of corroboration from the statement of PW-2.

18. PW-3 is the husband of informant and father of the alleged victim girl. His
evidence is only confined to the fact that one (kechal) altercation took place in
between accused and his wife and his wife lodged ejahar against the accused.
Evidence of PW-5 also pointed taking place quarrelling in between accused and
informant. PW-3 and PW-3 except stating taking place of quarrelling in between
accused and informant did not stated anything against the accused Mohibul
Hoque. They did not state before court that accused Mohibul Hoque had
committed penetrative sexual assault on PW-2. Thus, shown their evidence say
good bye to the prosecution case and their evidence bring different story that
goes in favour of the accused person.

19, Evidence of PW-4 is that he has no knowledge why Alima Bibi lodged
ejahar. Thus, evidence of PW-4 pointed total ignorance about the incident and
his evidence also not help the prosecution case.

20. From the scrutiny of entire evidence on record, I find that prosecution

failed to bring home a single material against the accused that on the day of
6|Page

incident accused committed forceful penetrative sexual assault on PW-2. In the
instant case PW-1 informant of the case did not supported her statement made
in the ejahar and before the court she changes her statement and her statement
before the court totally overturn the prosecution case. PW-2, the alleged victim
girl also resile from her earlier statement and she made different story before the
court which makes her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C not believable beyond all
reasonable doubt. More so statement of her father i.e PW-3 and PW-5 bring
totally different story before the court that goes against the prosecution and I
come to my definite judicious finding that prosecution failed to bring home
single ingredient of section 3 of POCSO Act against the accused Mohibul Hoque.
21. Therefore, in view of my discussion, and on scrutiny of the entire
evidence on record, I come to my definite finding that prosecution miserably
failed to bring home charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act against the accused Mohibul
Hoque @ Mohibul Ali. Accordingly accused Mohibul Hoque @ Mohibul Ali is
acquitted from the charge of section 4 of POCSO Act and is set at liberty.

22. Bail bond of accused person shall remain stands for next six (6) months
u/s 437(A) Cr.P.C.

23. Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 10" day of April, 2019 at
Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Dictated and Corrected by me,
(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Typed by,
Swmkhwr Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.
7|Page

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

PW-1 Alima Bibi,
PW-2 Miss X,
PW-3 Ennus Ali,
PW-4 Md. Mirajul Hoque and
PW-5 Afruja Bibi.
PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Ejahar,
Ext-2 Statement of PW-2 recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C and

Ext-3 Seizure list

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT EXHIBITS - NIL
COURT WITNESS - NIL

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
