HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE BILASIPARA

Present:- Smti S. Bhuyan, AJS
Special Judge, Bilasipara
Special (POCSO) Case No- 04 of 2018

u/s 376-AB/302/201 of IPC r. w section 6 of POCSO Act
STATE
Versus

Gauri Shankar Nath @ Banka
S/O Sri Budheswar Nath @ Buduru,
R/O Vill- Puran (Old) Lawpara

PS- Sapatgram, Dist- Dhubri, Assam

Accused person

(Corresponding to GR case No- 582/18 u/s 376-AB/302/201 IPC r.w section 6

of POCSO Act)
Advocate appeared:-
For the state:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Special P.P.
For the accused:- Mr. Hekmat Ali Sk., Advocate.
Date of institution of the case :- 30-04-18
Date of Framing charge :- 15-09-18
Date of prosecution evidence t- 27-09-18,28-09-18,29-09-18,01-10-18

03-10-18,04-10-18,05-10-18, 06-10-18,
31-10-18,28-11-18,04-01-19

Statement of accused recorded on _:- 22-01-19

Date of Argument t- 27-02-19 & 13-03-19
2|Page

Judgment delivered t- 25-03-19

Hearing on Sentence :- 29-03-19

Sentence Pronounced :- 29-03-19
JUDGMENT

Prosecution Case

1. The incident of this case was took place on 29-04-18. On the day of
incident 7 years old daughter of the informant Pradip Kr Nath was missing from
the Puran Lawpara school field where victim girl went to play from the
marriage house, where one of the ceremonies of marriage of the daughter of
accused’s jethu (paternal uncle) P.W-14 was going on. The girl was seen with
accused at village road by PW-6, PW-3 and PW-4. When news of the missing
of the 7 years old girl was spread in the village, parents of the child with some
of the villager of Puran Lawpara village made search for the girl and father of
the girl asked Gauri Shankar Nath, about his daughter as he got information
that his victim daughter was seen with him but father of the child did not get
proper answer from the accused Gauri Shankar Nath and when father of the
victim girl got message from one co-villager Dharmendra that accused Gauri
Shankar Nath, is about to flee from the village, Pw-1 with the help of his co-
villager, Dharmendra and PW-6 (Pradip) made search for accused and they
managed to apprehend him at Holong Bazar, brought him to school filed
thereafter villager grilled him and before village people Gauri Shankar made
statement of taking victim with him, committing rape on victim girl and then
kill her and by this time someone informed the police about the missing of the
girl and police from Raniganj outpost arrived at the Puran Lawpara village and
received further information from the villager that accused Gauri Shankar after
taking the victim committed rape on victim and killed the victim girl Miss
X(named change). Thereafter police reached school filed, villager hand over
accused Gauri Shankar Nath, to police, police took him to police station and on
early next morning of the incident, accused Gauri Shankar Nath took police to
the ditch near the Besimari Lutapara graveyard where he threw the girl and

dead body of the girl was recovered.
3|Page

2. In connection with this case Prodip Kr. Nath, father of the deceased
victim child lodged one written ejahar (Ext-1) before i/c Raniganj Out Post on
30-04-18 wherein he made allegation that on 29-04-18 at about 06.30 pm,
accused Gauri Shankar enticed his minor daughter Miss X (name changed
hereinafter read as Miss X) aged about 7 years old to go with him from Puran
Lawpara LP School field and after taking Miss X at Lutapara Samsan ghat
committed murder of Miss X by strangulating her and thrown her to one ditch
situated at Besimari. He along with his wife while searching for their daughter
Miss X, they suspected on accused Gauri Shankar Nath and immediately they
informed the matter to police and handed over accused Gauri Shankar Nath to
police. Thereafter during interrogation by police, dead body of Miss X was
recovered from a ditch as lead and shown by accused Gauri Shankar Nath.
Investigation of the case

3. On receipt of ejahar from informant Pradip Kr. Nath, i/c Raniganj police
out post forwarded the same to O/C Sapatgram P.S. for registration of the case
and Officer-in-charge of Sapatgram P.S registered a police case vide
Sapatgram Police Case No. 40/18 u/s 302 IPC and SI Emdadul Hussain was
entrusted to conduct the investigation of the case and during investigation of
the case on the prayer of the IO section 376-AB IPC r/w section 6 of POCSO
Act were added. I/O visited place of occurrence that is Puran Lawpara
schoolfield, took custody of accused Gauri Shankar Nath, interrogated accused
Gauri Shankar Nath at police station and finally recovered the dead body of
deceased victim child in a ditch situated at Lutapara (Besimari) Samsan ghat as
per statement of the accused when accused lead police to the ditch present
near the Besimari Graveyard and shown the dead body to police and PWs who
were accompanied the police with the accused Gauri Shankar Nath. Thereafter
IO called executive magistrate for inquest on the dead body and inquest on the
dead body was done by one executive magistrate at the place of recovery of
the dead body of the deceased victim child, IO drawn the site map of the place
of recovery of the dead body, seized wearing apparels of deceased victim child
along with the dead body at the place of recovery and jeans pant of the
accused from the physical possession of the accused and after inquest of the
dead body sent dead body for post mortem examination, sent seized articles
for examination at FSL, Kahilipara Guwahati, seized bicycle which was used by

the accused to carry deceased girl from the village school playground to the
4|Page

place of occurrence, recorded statement of the witnesses and produced
witnesses before the Ld. Magistrate to record their statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
and after collecting PM report submitted charge sheet against the accused
Gauri Shankar Nath u/s 302/376-AB/201 IPC r/w section 6 of POCSO Act. IO of
the case submitted FSL report before the court. IO of the case submitted
charge sheet in section 6 of the POCSO Act, therefore, special case under
POCSO Act has been registered to commence trial. The then Ld. SDJM(M)
Bilasipara after adding section 6 of the POSCO Act forwarded the record to the
Special Court.

Charge

4. This case is under POCSO Act together with penal section and
therefore, after perusal of the case diary, case record, documents present with
the record and submitted by the IO of the case, finding sufficient prima facie
material to proceed with the case against the charge sheeted accused Gauri
Shankar Nath u/s 302/376-AB/201 I.P.C, r. w section 6 of the POCSO Act,
cognizance has been taken and after furnishing necessary copies to accused
person and hearing learned counsel for both sides and perusal of material on
record charge u/s 376-AB/302/201 of IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act has
been framed against the accused Gauri Shankar Nath @ Banka and when
charges are read over and explained to the accused person, he pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.
Trial

Ly In order to prove the prosecution charges against the accused person,
prosecution adduce evidence of all together 17 number of witnesses and
exhibited 22 nos. of documents. PW-1 Prodip Kr. Nath, PW-2 Pranita Devi,
PW-3 Chandra Bala Devi, PW-4 Anjali Devi, PW-5 Gajen Ch. Nath, PW-6 Pradip
Kr. Nath S/O Lt. Tipin Ch. Nath, PW-7 Samendra Narayan Barman, PW-8 Dayal
Nath, PW-9 Anil Ch. Nath, PW-10 Abdul Latif, PW-11 Dr. Sk. Md. Azahar (
M.O), PW-12 Nabajit Pathak, PW-13 Chandra Prava Devi, PW-14 Lalit Kr. Nath,
PW-15 Lumanta Kr. Nath, PW-16 SI Imdadul Hussain ( 1.0) and PW-17 Dr.
Monalisha Choudhury ( Scientific Officer). Ext-1 Ejahar, Ext-2 inquest report,
Ext-3 Statement of PW-3 recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C, Ext-4 Statement of PW-4
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C, Ext-5 Seizure list, Ext-6 statement of PW-6 recorded
u/s 164 Cr.P.C, Ext-7 Seizure list, Ext-8 Seizure list, Ext-9 statement of PW-7
5|Page

recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C, Ext-10 Statement of PW-9 recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-11 Post Mortem Report, Ext-12 Statement of PW-15 recorded u/s 164
Cr.P.C, Ext-13 informant general diary entry no. 376 dated 29-04-18 of
Raniganj out post, Ext-14 general diary entry no. 381 dated 30-04-2018 of
Raniganj out post, Ext-15 general diary entry no. 382 dated 30-04-18, Ext-16
requisition sent to Dhubri Civil Hospital to conduct post mortem examination on
dead body of victim child, Ext-17 Dead body challan, Ext-18 Command
Certificate, Ext-19 Seizure list, Ext-20 Sketch map of the place of occurrence
where accused took victim, Ext-21 Sketch map of the place of occurrence
where dead body of victim recovered and Ext-22 Charge sheet, Ext-23 DNA
test report, Ext-24 Serological report and Ext-25 forwarding letter of the
Director cum Chemical Examiner to the Govt. of Assam. After closure of the
prosecution evidence, statement of the accused person recorded u/s 313
Cr.P.C. Accused plea is denial, however declined to adduced evidence in

support of the plea of denial.

6. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:-

i) Whether accused on 29-04-18 at about 06.30 pm at Luthapara under
Sapatgram PS, committed rape on informant’s daughter Miss X (aged
about 7 years old) under the age of 12 years?

ii) Whether accused on 29-04-18 at about 06.30 pm at Luthapara under
Sapatgram PS, committed murder intentionally causing the death of
informant’s minor daughter Miss X?

iii) Whether accused on 29-04-18 at about 06.30 pm at Luthapara under
Sapatgram PS, knowing or having reason to believe that rape of Miss
X has been committed, thrown Miss X into a pond ditch and did cause
certain evidence of said offence disappear, to wit or knowingly gave
false information, to wit with the intention of screening the offender
from legal punishment?

iv) Whether accused on 29-04-18 at about 06.30 pm at Luthapara under
Sapatgram PS, committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on

informant’s daughter Miss X aged about 7 years old?
6|Page

ARGUMENT
7. Ld. Special. P.P contended that the offence committed by the accused
in the present case is not only heinous crime, but it is rarest of rare crime and
shock and shivered the society as a whole and the offence committed by the
accused pointed females are not safe in the presence of accused. Ld. Special.
P.P further submitted incident was took place on 29-04-18 when one function
in respect of marriage ceremonies of the paternal uncle of accused who is the
neighbour of PW-1, the informant and accused was going on and in the said
marriage house deceased victim child, her parents, other villagers of the village
attend as guest and PW-1 was the cook of the function. He contended when
victim child went to play in the playground of school present near her and
marriage function house, accused took benefit of presence of villager in the
marriage house, took away the victim child to an isolated place and taking of
Miss X by the accused from the school filed was seen by PW-4 from the
marriage house where she came as guest. Ld. Special PP contended after
taking the child accused committed rape on victim girl (deceased) and to
eliminate evidence he threw her in the ditch causing head injury on her with
intent and knowledge that if he threw the injured child in the water body with
her head face neck (upside down position) submerged under water she would
definitely die. Thereafter, accused to give colour of innocence returned to his
house with his nephew whom he took along with the victim girl and accused
returning was noticed by PW-1, the informant and father of the deceased
victim child. Ld. Special P.P submitted when accused was asked about the
child, he did not give satisfactory answer and tried to mislead the villager and
thereafter accused tried to escape from the village but same was spotted by
one villager. Accordingly villager alerted father (PW-1) of the deceased victim
child and PW-1 with the help of other villagers able to capture him when he
was trying to leave the village and he was brought back to village where he
made confession before the villagers that he took away the deceased victim
child, rape her and threw her body. Ld. Special. P.P further submitted though
accused at very first instance did not disclosed the place where he threw the
dead body but finally it is accused statement that disclosed the presence of
dead body of the deceased victim child and accused in the early morning of
30-04-18 at about 04.00 am took police to the Besimari pond near Samsan
ghat and showed the dead body and dead body was recovered in presence of
7|Page

witness (PWs), informant, police as lead, disclosed and shown by the accused
Gauri Shankar Nath. Ld. Special. P.P further submitted post mortem report
clearly, pointed commission of rape on the deceased child and FSL report on
the seized pant of accused and panty of deceased that deceased was wearing
at the time of incident and accused was wearing on the date of incident gave
positive result for presence of semen. Ld. Special. P.P submitted accused trying
to abscond immediately after the incident pointed his guilty and he tried to
abscond only to evade his prosecution. Ld. Special. P.P submitted there is
complete chain of circumstance that goes against the accused and only proved
his guilty and no inference of his innocence came to play and there is no
delink, no interruption no snag present in the chain of circumstances and
prosecution beyond all reasonable doubt established prosecution charges of
section 376-AB/302/201 IPC r.w. section 6 of the POCSO Act against the
accused Gauri Shankar Nath and prays for stringent punishment for accused
Gauri Shankar Nath arguing that this is a case of rarest of rare one and first of
its kind in the Bilasipara Sub-Division and in the Dhubri district and shock the
whole community. Ld. Special. P.P prays for exemplary punishment so to send
a message to the society that nobody will looked into woman with bad eye and
to curb the menace, crime that is frequently took place in the State and to
have faith of the public upon the judiciary.

8. Countering the same, Id. defence counsel contended that there is no
eye witness to the incident and prosecution case is based on hearsay evidence
that is not admissible under the Evidence Act. Ld. Counsel further contended
whole prosecution case is based on only one clue that deceased victim child
was seen with accused on his bicycle with accused on the date of incident and
that drawn up suspicion and conclusion against the accused that it was
accused who had committed the murder of the deceased child. Ld. Defence
counsel further contended bicycle was seized from the house of other person,
not from the accused person. So, accused hand in the rape with murder of
deceased child not established against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt. It has been further contended by Id. defence counsel that public torture
accused and handed over to the police and accused though took police to ditch
and dead body of the deceased child was recovered on next day of incident
but that does not established that dead body was recovered as per statement

of accused as because he was tortured by villager. He further submitted police
8|[ Page

to safe their skin compelled accused to identify the dead body. Ld. counsel
further made stretch on the point that whole prosecution case is based only on
one assumption that victim was last seen with the accused and that is not
sufficient to hold accused guilty of prosecution charge and prosecution totally
failed to connect accused link to the heinous crime of rape and murder of the
victim child that shock the whole community and accused Gauri Shankar Nath
is an innocent person and prosecution failed to establish the prosecution
charges against the accused Gauri Shankar Nath beyond all reasonable doubt.
PROSECUTION EVIDENCE

9. PW-1 Prodip Kumar Nath is the informant of the case. His evidence is
that deceased victim child was his daughter and she was aged about 7 years
old at the time of incident and accused Gauri Shankar Nath is his neighbour.
He deposed incident was took place on 29-04-18 and on that day there was
marriage ceremony in the house of his neighbour who is paternal uncle of
accused Gauri Shankar Nath. On the day of incident he also visited the
marriage party which was held in the house of paternal uncle of accused as
invited to cook for the marriage party and at about 05.30- 06.00 pm his
deceased victim daughter was playing in the Lawpara Prathamik Vidyalaya
school field and accused Gauri Shankar was present at the time in the field
while his deceased victim daughter was playing in the field. His deceased
daughter went to play in the field telling him that she was going to play in the
Lawpara Prathamik Vidyalaya school field. When time was dusk, his wife
Pranita Devi came to him and asked him to bring their deceased daughter and
they used to call their deceased daughter by nick name. Accordingly he went
to bring his deceased daughter from the Lawpara Prathamik Vidyalaya School
filed but he did not find his daughter there. Immediately he made search for
their daughter and inquired about his daughter to other persons. To that one
of his neighbours Anjali Devi told him that she had seen accused Gauri Shankar
taking away his deceased daughter on his bicycle. Hearing the same, he made
search for accused Gauri Shankar and also inform the matter to his friend
Pradip. After one hour he had noticed accused Gauri Shankar Nath returning
from north side towards his home on bicycle with his nephew aged about 3
years old. Seeing accused Gauri Shankar, he stopped him and asked about his
deceased daughter and at that time his wife was also present with him. On

being asked, accused Gauri Shankar told him that he (accused) had already
9|Page

dropped his deceased daughter at their (PW-1 informant) house. He told to
accused Gauri Shankar that his deceased daughter is not found at home to
that accused Gauri Shankar told him (informant) that he (accused) too will
search his deceased daughter and accused Gauri Shankar shown him that he
(accused) went to search his deceased daughter. He followed accused Gauri
Shankar along with one Dharmendra and his mita Pradip and they saw accused
Gauri Shankar entering into the house of Naba Nath but accused Gauri Shankar
did not returned back from the house of Naba Nath. Thereafter he went to the
house of Naba Nath to ask him about the accused Gauri Shankar Nath. To that
wife of Naba Nath replied to him that accused Gauri Shankar Nath did not visit
their house. Getting this reply from the wife of Naba Nath he suspected of
accused will run out from village to abscond. Immediately he along with
Shankar, Dharmendra and Mita Prodip made search for Gauri Shankar Nath on
Motor Cycle and they noticed and apprehend accused at Halong bazar near
their village. Thereafter they bring accused Gauri Shankar Nath to their village
on motor cycle and interrogated accused. Accused was not giving answer to
their questions properly. Some of the villagers manhandle accused and police
was also informed about the incident. Thereafter police arrived at their village
and along with police he, accused Gauri Shankar Nath, his Mita Prodip, Somen,
Dayal, Rumanta Nath, Sadhu (nickname) and others made search for his
deceased daughter and finally accused Gauri Shankar Nath took them to
Lutapara Samsan Ghat at about 04:30 a.m in the next morning and shown the
dead body of his deceased daughter in a ditch and dead body was recovered
as shown and lead by the accused Gauri Shankar Nath. Seeing dead body of
his deceased daughter he fainted, fell down on earth. After few minutes, he
regained his senses and look into the dead body of his daughter. He noticed
the head of the dead body was submerged under the ditch water and half of
the body is on the side of the ditch. Her panty was removed and there was
blood stain on the forehead and back of the head of his deceased daughter. He
deposed police took photographs of dead body at the time of recovery of dead
body and inquest was done on the dead body by the Magistrate. Thereafter in
connection with this incident he has lodged ejahar vide Ext-1 and he put his
signature on ejahar vide Ext- 1(1). He also put his signature on Ext-2 inquest
report vide Ext 2 (1). He deposed the photographs shown to him by Ld.
Special. P.P before the court are the photographs of his deceased daughter. In
10|Page

cross he stated he works in the steel furniture making company at Guwahati
and he came to his native house during Bihu in the month of April. He stated
accused Gauri Shankar Nath is his adjacent neighbour and they are having
common courtyard. He stated he visited in the house of jetha of accused Gauri
Shankar where marriage occasion was held and same is present next to the
house of accused Gauri Shankar and in the said marriage ceremony he worked
as cook for the marriage party. He stated he had seen accused Gauri Shankar
Nath sitting in the school field while his deceased daughter was playing in the
school field but he did not see accused Gauri Shankar Nath taking his daughter
on his bicycle. He stated he cannot say the exact time when his daughter was
playing in the field but probably the time was 04:30 p.m_ to 05:30 p.m and he
made search for his daughter from 06:00 p.m. He stated he saw accused Gauri
Shankar Nath was coming to his house on his bicycle with his nephew while he
was searching for his deceased daughter and he met accused near the school
field and accused was coming from the north side. He stated while accused
Gauri Shankar Nath was asked, accused told him that he had dropped his
deceased daughter at his house. He further stated when he asked Bhagin of
accused, where about of his deceased daughter, Bhagin of accused told him
that accused Gauri Shankar Nath taken him ( Bhagin) and deceased victim
child along with him and accused had threw deceased victim child. After
disclosing the fact that accused Gauri Shankar Nath threw his daughter
Deceased victim child in the water body by the Bhagin of accused to him,
accused Gauri Shankar told him that he too will made search for his daughter
and proceeded on the other direction and run out. He stated at the time of
incident Bhagin of accused was little boy and could not speak properly
therefore they did not took Bhagin of accused along with them for the search
of his deceased daughter considering the tender age of Bhagin of accused
Gauri Shankar. He stated when accused Gauri Shankar fled away, they
apprehend accused and brought accused to the village and at that time other
villagers assaulted accused Gauri Shankar Nath. Accused Gauri Shankar Nath
was surrounded by villager for about 1¥2 hour till arrival of the police and
police was informed about the incident. Later on police arrived and took
custody of accused Gaur Shankar and on the next day of taking custody of
Gauri Shankar by the police, he went to the police station. When Police took
custody of accused Gauri Shankar Nath, he was still searching for his deceased
11|Page

daughter with other co-villager and in the early morning at about
04:00am/04:30am police came to their village with accused Gauri Shankar
Nath and at that time accused Gauri Shankar Nath took police and them to the
Lutapara Samsan Ghat and shown dead body of his deceased daughter in a
ditch and at that time he was behind the police following the police to the site
of recovery of his deceased daughter. He stated he did not witness the murder
incident of his deceased daughter. He denied defence suggestion that he
deposed falsely before the court that he heard from Anjali Devi that accused
Gauri Shankar Nath taken away his deceased daughter on his bicycle; accused
Gauri Shankar Nath did not committed murder of his deceased daughter. He
further stated one Chandra also told him that she too noticed accused Gauri
Shankar taking away his deceased daughter.

10. PW-2 Pranita Devi deposed informant Prodip Kr. Nath is her husband
and deceased was her daughter and her deceased daughter was 7 years old at
the time of incident. She deposed she knows accused Gauri Shankar Nath and
he is her co villager. She deposed native house of her husband is at Puroni
Lawpara and generally they stayed at Guwahati but in the month of April
during Bohag Bihu, she along with her husband and deceased daughter came
to their native house at Puroni Lawpara. She deposed incident was took place
in the Assamese Bohag month of the year 2018 and the date is 29. There
was marriage ceremony of Tanu at her house on the day of incident. Tanu is
their neighbour. She deposed her deceased daughter was playing with others
in the marriage house and her husband Prodip Kr. Nath was working in the
said marriage party. She deposed while she told her husband Prodip Kr. Nath
to bring their deceased daughter at house, her husband made search for their
deceased daughter but did not find their deceased daughter. Thereafter she
and her mother in law too made search for her deceased daughter but did not
find. From the people present in the marriage house, she came to know that
accused Gauri Shankar Nath took her deceased daughter somewhere. After
sometime she saw accused Gauri Shankar coming along with his nephew,
seeing accused she asked about her deceased daughter to accused and
accused replied to her that he did not take her deceased daughter along with
him. When their deceased daughter was not found, she became unwell and
later on she heard that accused Gauri Shankar Nath @ Banku killed her

deceased daughter after committing rape on her. She further deposed her
12|Page

husband Prodip Kr. Nath told her that the Bhagin of accused Gauri Shankar
Nath told him that accused Gauri Shankar Nath @ Banku killed their deceased
daughter. Her husband further told her that accused Gauri Shankar had killed
her deceased daughter after committing rape on her. She deposed she was
informed about the recovery of dead body of her deceased daughter by her
husband but she was not present when dead body of her deceased daughter
was recovered. She deposed she saw dead body of her deceased daughter
when dead body of her deceased daughter was brought to their house. She
saw injury mark on the forehead of her deceased daughter and her deceased
daughter was in naked condition. She further deposed dead body of her
daughter was recovered in the early morning at about 04:00 am - 04:30 am
and she got to know that after inquest, dead body was sent for post mortem.
In cross she stated the marriage of Tanu was held on the date on incident
and she went to the marriage house as invited but she returned back home
and her deceased daughter remained in the marriage house and her deceased
daughter told her that she wanted to play with her friends and stayed. She
stated several other children were playing in the marriage house and her
daughter joined them and play with them in the marriage house. She stated at
about 06.00 p.m she asked her husband to bring their daughter and at that
time, she did not go to find out her daughter. She made search for her
daughter later on. She stated the people present in the marriage house told
her that accused Gauri Shankar Nath @Banku had taken away her deceased
daughter on his bicycle. She stated she does not know from where and who
had recovered the dead body of her deceased daughter. She stated she do not
know who had killed her deceased daughter and what was done with her
deceased daughter.

11. PW-3 Chandra Bala Devi deposed she knows informant, deceased
daughter of informant and accused Gauri Shankar Nath and house of accused
Gauri Shankar is adjacent to the house of informant Prodip Kr. Nath. She
deposed incident was took place in the year 2018 in the month of Assamese
Bohag. On the date of incident at about 06:30 p.m while she was returning
home from Lawpara Puroni Bazar, she saw accused Gauri Shankar Nath with
deceased victim child and his one nephew together on the bicycle of accused
Gauri Shankar Nath at a little distance from one field. Later on, father of the

deceased came to her house and asked her if she had seen deceased victim
13|Page

child. To that, she replied to informant Prodip Kr. Nath that she had seen
deceased victim child with accused Gauri Shankar Nath and his nephew on the
bicycle of accused Gauri Shankar Nath. She deposed on the day of incident she
heard about missing of deceased victim child and on the next morning at about
04.30 am she heard that dead body of deceased victim child was recover.
Accordingly she went to see the dead body and saw the dead body was lying
naked and deceased was rape and murdered. She deposed she did not see
accused Gauri Shankar in the house of Prodip Kr. Nath when she went to see
the dead body of Deceased victim child after recovery but she saw large
gathering of people and police there. She stated police produced her before
the Magistrate and she made statement before the Magistrate vide Ext-3 and
Ext-3 (1) is her signature. In cross she stated incident was took place in the
month of Assamese Bohag in English year 2018 but she can’t say the date. She
stated her house is on the south direction from the house of informant and
accused and she has to cross the house of accused and informant to reach her
house from the Lawpara Puroni Bazar. She stated the Lawpara Puroni Bazar
where she visited on the day of incident is on the east direction from her
house. She stated while she was returning from the Lawpara Puroni bazar, she
met accused Gauri Shankar Nath along with deceased victim child and his
nephew and they were proceeding towards east direction of her house. She
stated she does not know who had rape, murdered deceased victim child and
from where dead body of deceased victim child was recovered. She denied
defence suggestion that she did not made statement before the police that she
had seen accused Gauri Shankar Nath taking deceased victim child along with
his nephew on his bicycle.

12. Evidence of PW-4 Anjali Devi is that she knows informant Prodip Kr.
Nath, deceased victim child and accused Gauri Shankar Nath. She deposed her
house is very close to the house of informant and accused Gauri Shankar Nath.
She deposed on the day of incident, she was present in the house of Lalit
Nath, the jethu of accused Gauri Shankar Nath for the marriage ceremony and
from the house of Lalit Nath, she saw accused Gauri Shankar Nath taking away
deceased victim child and his nephew Tilak Nath on his bicycle. On the next
morning dead body of deceased victim child was recovered and she saw
undressed naked body with injuries on the forehead of deceased victim child

and blood was oozing out from the nose. She deposed when she went to see
14|Page

the dead body, she heard from the gathering present in the house of informant
that dead body of deceased victim child was recovered from a ditch and she
also heard that accused Gauri Shankar Nath committed murder of deceased
victim child after committing rape on her. She deposed police recorded her
statement, produced her before the Magistrate and she had made statement
before the Magistrate vide Ext-4 and Ext-4 (1) is her signature. She further
deposed she had stated same statement before the Police and before the
Magistrate whatever statement she made before the court today. In cross she
stated her house is on the south side of the house of informant and accused
Gauri Shankar Nath. She was invited to the marriage party and she performed
some duties (work) in the marriage house. She stated when accused Gauri
Shankar Nath took deceased victim child and his nephew in his bicycle she had
notice the same from the marriage house and accused taken deceased victim
child from the school field present near the marriage house. She stated from
gathering present in the house of informant, she heard that accused Gauri
Shankar Nath committed murder of deceased victim child after committing
rape on deceased victim child but she can’t say the name of those persons
from whom she came to know the same. She stated she does not know the
place from where dead body was recovered. She stated she does not know
how deceased victim child was murdered.

13. PW-5 Gajen Ch. Nath deposed informant Prodip Kr. Nath is his
neighbour and he knows deceased victim child and accused Gauri Shankar
Nath. He deposed on the day of incident, accused Gauri Shankar Nath took
deceased victim child on his bicycle for riding and he came to know about the
missing of deceased victim child about 07-00 pm - 07-30 pm when hue and cry
took place in their village with regard to the missing of deceased victim child.
He heard that before missing, deceased victim was taken by accused Gauri
Shankar Nath on his bicycle for riding. He further heard that accused Gauri
Shankar Nath fled away and youth of their village search accused on Motor
Cycle and finally accused was apprehended by village youths and was brought
back to their village. He deposed when father of deceased victim interrogated
accused Gauri Shankar Nath about his missing daughter, accused Gauri
Shankar Nath confessed that he had taken deceased victim child on his bicycle
for riding and when village people and father of the deceased victim, the

informant Prodip Kr. Nath asked accused Gauri Shankar Nath about the child,
15|Page

accused Gauri Shankar Nath took them to several places and at that time
police was also informed by the villagers. Special. S.P., Dhubri and other police
personnel arrived to their village and one section of the police deputed in their
village and one section of the police took custody of the accused Gauri Shankar
Nath and took him to the police station. After 12 O’clock night other villagers
went to their respective home, but he along with Prodip Nath, S/o. Tipin Ch.
Nath, Somen Ch. Barman, S/o. Dipendra Barman, Dayal Ch. Nath, S/o. Letha
Ram Nath, Piya Ram Nath, Lumanta Kr. Nath, S/o. Lt. Narendra Ch. Nath
stayed in the 1533 Lawpara L. P. School campus and at that time accused
Gauri Shankar Nath stated presence of deceased victim child at different places
and at that time they were informed by the police ASI Kapil of Raniganj Out
Post to verify and to look out the fact but on searching in different places as
stated by accused Gauri Shankar Nath they did not find the deceased victim
child. Thereafter at about 04:05 a.m, accused Gauri Shankar Nath was
brought to their village by the police accompanied by Special. S.P., Dhubri and
accused Gauri Shankar Nath took them and police to the Lutapara Samsan
Ghat situated near the river Kachua and accused Gauri Shankar in presence of
him and other villagers and in presence of police shown the place where dead
body of deceased victim was kept by him. He deposed dead body of deceased
victim child was recovered from a ditch present near the river Kachua as
shown and lead by accused Gauri Shankar in presence of him and presence of
villagers and police. He saw the head of the body of deceased child was
submerged under the water and inner was removed and her frock was above
her chest. He also saw injury mark on the forehead of the deceased victim
child and blood was oozing out from the nostril and there was mark of violence
and injury present in her private parts which pointed that deceased child was
rape and then murdered. Thereafter he lifted the dead body of deceased child
on being directed by police and covered the dead body of deceased child with
his gamosa. Thereafter Magistrate arrived at the place of recovery of dead
body, Magistrate thoroughly look into the dead body and did inquest on the
dead body in his presence. He deposed he put his signature on the Ext-2
inquest report vide Ext 2(2). Police also took his signature on Ext-5 seizure list
at the time of seizure of wearing dress of deceased. He further deposed M-
Ext.1 is the Photograph of the accused taken by the police at the place of
recovery of the deceased in his presence. M-Ext.2 and M-Ext.3 are the
16|Page

photographs of the deceased. M-Ext.3 is the photograph of the deceased taken
at the exact place of recovery where deceased was threw by the accused and
found in the ditch upside down. In cross he stated the Photograph, material
M-Ext.1, M-Ext.2, M-Ext.3 were not seen at the place of recovery but police
had taken photograph of the deceased and accused at the place of recovery.
He stated he did not seen accused Gauri Shankar Nath taking deceased victim
child on his bicycle for riding. He stated the murder of deceased victim child
was not seen by him but her dead body was recovered from the ditch as
shown and lead by accused Gauri Shankar Nath. He stated the place of
recovery of dead body is about 1% km away from the house of Informant
Prodip kr. Nath and there is no human inhabitant near the place of recovery of
dead body. He denied defence suggestions he deposed falsely before the court
that accused Gauri Shankar Nath confessed before them that he had taken
deceased victim child on his Bicycle, rape her and murdered; when accused
refused to confessed, they handed over him to police; accused Gauri Shankar
Nath is not involved in the rape and murder of deceased victim child.

14. PW-6 Pradip Kr. Nath S/O Lt. Tipin Ch. Nath deposed informant Prodip
Kr. Nath is his Mita as well as neighbour and deceased victim child was aged
about 7 years old at the time of incident. He deposed on the day of incident on
30-04-18 he was coming to his house at Raniganj and at that time in the
Bridge present in their village, he saw accused Gauri Shankar Nath with
deceased victim child and nephew of accused on the bicycle of accused Gauri
Shankar Nath. After reaching his house, while he was at his home after taking
meal, his Mita informant Pradip Kr. Nath called him over mobile and informed
him that his daughter was missing. Thereafter informant called him to his
house. When he reached the house of his Mita Prodip Kr. Nath, one boy of
their village namely Dharmendra Nath told them that accused Gauri Shankar
Nath was going towards Bilasipara town. Thereafter he along with his Mita
informant Prodip Kr. Nath and Dharmendra proceeded on a bike and at Halong
bazar, they met accused Gauri Shankar Nath. They called and stopped accused
Gauri Shankar Nath, and took accused Gauri Shankar Nath along with them in
their village and informed the police of Raniganj. On being asked about
deceased victim child, accused Gauri Shankar stated different stories of
deceased victim child’s presence at different places. At that time, police arrived

at their village and police also interrogated accused Gauri Shankar Nath and
17|Page

police took custody of accused and took him to the police station. At that time
one section of the police deployed in the village and one section of police
present at police station interrogated accused Gauri Shankar Nath at the police
station and at that time accused stated different stories of the presence of
deceased victim child before the police and as informed to them by the police
from the police station, they along with section of police deployed in the village
went to those places that were stated by accused Gauri Shankar Nath but they
did not find any clue of deceased victim child. Thereafter at about 04.00 a.m to
04.30 a.m in the early morning Special. S.P., S.D.P.O., Bilasipara and other
police personnel brought accused Gauri Shankar Nath and at that time accused
Gauri Shankar Nath lead the police to the Kachua beel and shown the dead
body of deceased victim child. He deposed Kachua beel is present at about
1% km away from his house and when accused shown the dead body, they
saw dead body was lying half submerged under the water, her head was
submerged under the water and her panty was removed and dress was lifted
to the upper parts of her body. He deposed one Gajen Nath lifted the dead
body in presence of police and villagers and at that time he had seen injury on
the head of the deceased and the place where dead body was lying is also
blood mixed with the water. He deposed accused Gauri Shankar Nath
confessed before them that he after committing rape, killed the girl. Dead body
of deceased victim child was brought to police station from the place of
recovery of dead body of deceased victim child and dead body was sent to
Dhubri Civil Hospital for post mortem. He deposed he was produced before the
Magistrate by the police and he made statement before the Magistrate. Ext-6 is
his statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C and Ext 6(1) is his signature. He
deposed police seized one bicycle belonging to accused Gauri Shankar Nath
vide Ext-7, police also seized one panty, frock and red blouses of deceased
victim child vide Ext-8. He deposed dead body of deceased victim child was
wearing green colour panty, red colour blouse and white colour frock. M.Ext.1
is the photograph of accused Gauri Shankar Nath. M.Ext.2 is the photograph of
deceased victim child and M. Ext.3 is the photograph of deceased victim child
which was taken when dead body was recovered in the Kachua beel. In cross
he stated M.Ext-1, M. Ext-2 and M. Ext-3 photographs are taken by the police
and he had seen police taking photographs vide M.Ext-1, M.Ext-2 and M. Ext-
3. He stated when they interrogated accused Gauri Shankar Nath, accused
18|Page

took them to different places telling them about the presence of deceased
victim child and accused Gauri Shankar Nath tried to abscond. He stated he did
not see the murder scene of deceased victim child. ‘He denied they did not
held up accused at the Halong bazar; he had beaten accused Gauri Shankar
Nath along with co-villagers; they forced accused Gauri Shankar Nath to
confess and beaten them to confess the guilty; accused Gauri Shankar Nath is
an innocent and they falsely implicated him.’

15. PW-7 Samendra Narayan Barman @ Samen Barman deposed
informant Prodip Kr. Nath is his neighbour and deceased victim child was
daughter of informant and she was about 7 years old at the time of incident.
He further deposed accused Gauri Shankar Nath hails from his village and
house of accused Gauri Shankar Nath and informant is adjacent to each other.
He deposed on the day of incident on 29-04-18 at about 09.00 pm he heard
that informant’s deceased daughter was missing, deceased daughter of
informant was taken by the accused Gauri Shankar Nath, public apprehended
accused Gauri Shankar Nath, brought accused to their LP school field and
accused was interrogated by the village people. Hearing the same, he went to
the LP School field, noticed accused Gauri Shankar Nath being questioned by
village people about deceased victim child and at that time accused Gauri
Shankar Nath given different replies to the villagers where about of the
deceased victim child. Police was informed about the incident, police arrived at
the place and took custody of accused Gauri Shankar Nath and took him to the
police station leaving one section of the police in the L P. School field.
Thereafter police at the police station interrogated accused Gauri Shankar Nath
about deceased victim child and at that time accused gave different stories of
deceased victim child of her presence and accordingly police of Raniganj O.P.
informed the police who were deployed at the L. P. School field and villager
with the help of police deployed in the L. P. School field made searches of
deceased victim child in those places stated by the accused Gauri Shankar Nath
but she was not found. Thereafter in the morning hour, at about 04:30 a.m
accused Gauri Shankar Nath was brought back to the village from the police
station by Special. S.P., Dhubri, S.D.O. (Civil), Bilasipara and police of Raniganj
O.P. and accused Gauri Shankar Nath took police to the Kachua beel present
near the Samsan Ghat and accused Gauri Shankar Nath shown the dead body
of Deceased victim child in the Kachua beel. He too went to the Kachua beel
19|Page

where accused took police personnel to the Kachua beel and he has seen the
dead body of deceased victim girl was recovered from the Kachua beel as
shown and lead by accused Gauri Shankar Nath. He noticed there was no dress
of the lower part of the deceased. He deposed as commanded by the police,
one Gajen Nath lifted the dead body of deceased victim child after recovery of
dead body of deceased victim child as shown and lead by accused Gauri
Shankar and he had seen head injury on the dead body of deceased victim
child. He deposed police produced him before the Magistrate and he made
statement before the Magistrate vide Ext-9 and Ext-9 (1) is his signature. He
deposed at the time of taking custody of the dead body with her dress police
took his signature in Ext.5. M.Ext.1 is the photograph of accused Gauri Shankar
Nath. M.Ext.2 and M.Ext.3 are the photographs of deceased victim child, which
was taken at the place of recovery of dead body. In cross he stated he does
not know where accused Gauri Shankar Nath took deceased victim child riding
on his bicycle. He does not know who had killed deceased victim girl and in
what manner. He stated he had stated before Ld. Magistrate that accused
Gauri Shankar Nath disclosed before them that after committing rape on
deceased victim child, he had murdered her and accused stated these
statements before them. He stated he did not made statement before police
that accused Gauri Shankar Nath disclosed before them that he had killed
deceased child after committing rape on her. He stated when police took
accused Gauri Shankar Nath to the Police station leaving one section of Police
at L. P. school field, he spent whole night with the police till the period of
recovery of dead body of deceased victim child. He denied he and other
villagers assaulted accused Gauri Shankar Nath on the night of the incident;
accused Gauri Shankar Nath is not involved in the rape and murder of
deceased victim child.

16. PW-8 Dayal Nath deposed informant Prodip Kr. Nath is his neighbour
and deceased victim child was daughter of informant Prodip Kr. Nath. He
deposed deceased victim child was 7 years old at the time of incident and
incident was took place on 29-04-18. He deposed on the day of incident at
night hour, while he arrived at his home from his work, he came to know that
deceased victim child was missing. Hearing the same he went to the house of
informant Prodip Kr. Nath and found accused Gauri Shankar Nath was held by

the villagers. Police was also arrived at the place and police after taking
20| Page

custody of the accused, taken accused to the police station and one section of
police left in the village. He along with villagers and one section of police
made search for deceased victim child but did not find her and in the next
morning at about 04:00 a.m to 04.30 am, police came to their village with
accused Gauri Shankar Nath and at that time accused Gauri Shankar Nath took
police at Kachua (besimari) beel near Samsan ghat and shown the dead body
of deceased victim child at Kachua (besimari) beel, and accordingly dead body
of deceased victim child was recovered as lead and shown by accused Gauri
Shankar Nath and at the time of recovery of dead body of deceased victim
child he was also present. He saw dead body and found undergarment of dead
body was pulled down up to knee and her frock was present above her chest
and he also saw one head injury on the dead body of deceased victim child. He
deposed one Gajen Nath of their village had lifted the dead body of deceased
child after recovery of the dead body as shown by the accused Gauri Shankar
and after recovery of dead body, police took dead body for post mortem. He
deposed M.Ext.1 is the photograph of accused Gauri Shankar Nath. M.Ext.2
and M.Ext.3 are the photographs of deceased victim child which was taken at
the place of recovery of dead body. In cross he stated hearing the missing
incident of deceased victim child from his wife, he went to the house of
informant Prodip Kr. Nath and found accused Gauri Shankar Nath held up by
the village people. Thereafter when police questioned accused Gauri Shankar
Nath about deceased victim child, he replied his ignorance about deceased
victim child. He stated he does not know who had killed deceased victim child
and where. ‘He denied he deposed falsely that police brought accused Gauri
Shankar Nath in the morning about 04:00 a.m - 04:30 a.m in their village; he
deposed falsely that accused Gauri Shankar Nath shown the dead body of
deceased victim child in his presence and in presence of villager at Kachua
(besimari) beel near Samsan ghat’.

17. PW-9 Anil Ch. Nath deposed informant Prodip Kr. Nath is his neighbour
and deceased victim child was daughter of informant and she was 7 years old
at the time of incident. He also knows accused Gauri Shankar Nath and he is
his co villager. He deposed he is VDP Secretary of the village Puran Lawpara.
He deposed incident was took place in the year 2018 in the month of April and
Assamese Bohag on 29* April and on that day, one marriage party was going
on in the house of Lalit Nath. On that day at about 06:00 p.m - 06:30 p.m
21|Page

accused Gauri Shankar Nath took deceased victim child on his bicycle for
bicycle riding and at that time Tilok Nath, nephew of accused Gauri Shankar
Nath was also with them and he heard these facts from their villagers and from
the person who were present in the marriage house. He deposed while
accused Gauri Shankar Nath was returned, he was questioned by the village
people and to that Tilok Nath, nephew of accused Gauri Shankar Nath who was
present with accused Gauri Shankar Nath at that time told that deceased victim
girl was thrown in a ditch. He deposed accused tried to run away from the
village and villagers held the accused. On being informed, police arrived at the
place, took custody of the accused Gauri Shankar and one section of the police
left in the village to search deceased victim child and accused Gauri Shankar
Nath told different stories of presence of deceased victim child to them and
police and accordingly he along with others made searches to the place stated
by accused Gauri Shankar Nath but till late night accused did not disclosed the
true story where deceased victim child was thrown. In the next morning at
about 04.30 am, police came to their village along with accused Gauri Shankar
Nath and at that time, accused Gauri Shankar Nath took police to Besimari beel
near Samsan Ghat and shown the dead body of deceased victim child at
besimari beel, and dead body of deceased victim child was recovered as shown
by accused Gauri Shankar Nath from the Besimari beel. He deposed he was
informed about the recovery of dead body of deceased victim child as shown
by accused Gauri Shankar Nath from the other villagers who went to the place
of recovery along with police and accused Gauri Shankar Nath. He deposed he
had seen the dead body after recovery and he saw panty of deceased victim
child removed and it was pulled down below the knee, frock of dead body was
lifted above chest, injury on the head of deceased victim child. Police took
dead body of deceased victim child and accused Gauri Shankar Nath to the
police station again. He deposed one Gajen Nath, one of his co-villagers lifted
the dead body from the besimari beel. He further deposed police produced him
before the Ld. Magistrate and he had made statement before the Ld.
Magistrate vide Ext-10 and Ext-10(1) is his signature. Ext-8 is the seizure list
and Ext-8(2) is his signature. He deposed M.Ext-1 is the photograph of accused
Gauri Shankar Nath. M.Ext.2 and M.Ext.3 are the photographs of deceased
victim child which was taken at the place of recovery of dead body and M.Ext-3
is the photograph of the place where from the dead body of deceased victim
22|Page

child was recovered. In cross he stated his house is about 150 cubit away
from the house of informant and presently he can’t say the name of exact
person from whom he had heard about the missing of deceased victim child.
He stated all the villagers were making hue and cry about the missing of
deceased victim child. He stated accused Gauri Shankar Nath read either upto
Class-V or Class-VI in 1533 No. Lawpara L. P. School and Tilok Nath, the
nephew of accused Gauri Shankar Nath did not stated before him that accused
Gauri Shankar Nath thrown out deceased victim child in a ditch but Tilak Nath
stated before other villagers when accused Gauri Shankar Nath was asked
about deceased victim child. He stated he was not present when police asking
accused Gauri Shankar Nath about deceased victim child. He was present on
the next day when police brought accused Gauri Shankar Nath and
interrogated him about the deceased victim child. He stated he was not
present at the time of lifting of the dead body and how dead body was lifted
from the ditch is not seen by him. He stated police seized one panty, one red
blouse and one frock of deceased victim child vide Ext-8 and he put his
signature on Ext-8 seizure list. He stated he has not seen the incident of
murder of deceased victim child but it is true that deceased victim child was
murdered after committing rape on her. He denied he did not made statement
before the police when villager asked accused Gauri Shankar Nath about the
deceased victim child, accused’s nephew Tilok Nath told that accused Gauri
Shankar Nath thrown deceased victim child in a ditch; he denied that accused
Gauri Shankar Nath did not killed deceased victim child after committing rape
on her; he deposed falsely that accused Gauri Shankar Nath tried to run away
from the village.

18. Evidence of PW-10 Abdul Latif is that he does not know informant,
deceased victim child and accused Gauri Shankar Nath. He heard from the
villagers of Lawpara and Kachua that one seven years old girl of village
Lawpara was murdered after committing rape on her and her dead body was
thrown into the ditch present in the land of him situated near the Kachuagaon
Samsan ghat (graveyard) and at that place the dead body of the deceased
victim girl was recovered. He deposed incident was took place in the month of
Assamese Bohag but he did not visit the place of recovery of dead body. In
cross he stated whole plot of land is measuring 5 bigha and there is ditch
23|Page

meant for fishery in one corner of land. He stated he does not know who when
and who lifted the dead body from the ditch belonging to him.

19. PW-11 Dr. Sheikh Md. Azahar is M.O. His evidence is that on 30-04-18
he had conducted post mortem examination on the dead body of Miss X
(deceased victim child) D/O Pradip Kr. Nath under reference Raniganj Out Post
GDE no. 376 dated 29-04-18 and found- External Appearance -An average
built female child dead body was examined, frothing from mouth and nostril
noted, rigor mortis present in all 4 limbs; Wounds - position and character — i.
Abrasion of (1 x 0.5 cm) on Right eye lid and abrasion of (0.5 x 0.5 cm) on Left
eye lid, ii. Laceration on Mid-scalp (2 x 0.5 cm); Bruise - position size_and
nature —i. Bruise of around (1 x 0.5 cm) noted around lateral part of vaginal
introitus, ii. 0.5 cm of hymen tear noted on posterior part, iii. (0.5 x 0.5 cm) of
anal mucosal tear on posterior part noted; Cranium and Spinal canal - Scalp,
skull, vertebrae - As described; Membrane — Healthy; Brain and spinal cord —
Healthy; Walis, ribs and cartilage — healthy; Pleurae — Edematous; Laryax and
trachere - White frothing noted in trachea and larynx; Right lung - Voluminous,
water-logged lungs; Left lung - Voluminous, water-logged; Pericardium —
Healthy; Heart - pale and healthy; Vessels — Collapsed; Abdomen -Walls —
Healthy; Peritoneum — Healthy; Mouth, pharynx, oesophagus — Healthy;
Stomach and its contents - Healthy and water; Small intestine and its contents
- healthy and semi digested food particles; Large intestine and its contents -
Healthy and fecal content; Liver — Healthy; Spleen — healthy; Kidneys — Pale;
Bladder — Empty; Organs of generation, extema, and internal - As described;
More detailed description of injury or disease — i. Injuries described are ante-
mortem in nature, ii. Injuries around vagina and anal region is due to forceful
insertion of hard object, probably erect penis, iii. Vaginal and anal swab is
preserved and sent for smear examination. According to his opinion cause of
death is due to airway asphyxia sustained due to ante-mortem drowning. In
cross he stated he had conducted the post mortem examination on 30-04-18
vide Raniganj Out Post GDE No. 376 dated 29-04-18. According to his opinion
death is due to ante-mortem drowning.

20. Evidence of PW-12 Nabajit Pathak, ACS is that on 30-04-2018 he was
posted as Circle Officer, Chapar Revenue Circle and he was also performing
duties of In-charge S.D.O.(Civil), Bilasipara. On that day Circle Officer,

Bilasipara informed him over phone that one dead body is recovered at
24|Page

Besimari, Lutapara under Sapatgram P.S. accordingly he made contact with the
SDPO, Bilasipara and went to the Besimari, Lutapara, where dead body was
recovered and conducted inquest on the dead body of Miss X (deceased victim
child) and he saw dead body in the side of ditch and by this time dead body
was lifted from the ditch. During inquest he found - Frothy substance coming
out from the nose, seen injury marks above the eye in between both eye lids
and eyebrow, one injury mark below the lower lips, backside of the head and
clot blood seen in the anal area of the Miss X (deceased victim child). Red
kurta, red inner, red leggings and green panty were spotted with the dead
body and he had conducted the inquest on dead body of Miss X (deceased
victim child) in presence of the witness and police personnel and according to
the witnesses the deceased was murdered after committing rape on her and
dead body was sent to Dhubri Civil Hospital to ascertain the exact cause of
death. In cross he stated he left to place of occurrence from Bilasipara at
04.30 am and reach the place of recovery of dead body before 05.00 am. He
stated he was not present when dead body of deceased victim child was lifted
from the ditch. By the time he reached the place of recovery of dead body,
dead body was already pulled up from the ditch and was kept in the side of the
ditch. He denied he did not see any blood clot in the anal area of deceased
victim child at the time of inquest.

21. PW-13 Chandra Prava Devi deposed informant Prodip Kr. Nath is her
neighbour and deceased was daughter of informant and deceased was aged
about 7-8 years old. She deposed incident was took place in the year 2018 on
15 day in the month of Assamese Bohag. On the date of incident one
occasion of her daughter was going on at her house and her house is present
near the Lawpara L. P. School and Lawpara M E School and house of accused
Gauri Shankar Nath is present next to her house and house of informant Prodip
Kr. Nath is next to the house of accused Gauri Shankar Nath. She deposed in
the evening grand-mother (abu) of deceased came to her house and enquired
about deceased victim child and at that time she heard about missing of
deceased victim child and everyone were searching for deceased and deceased
victim child was untraced. She deposed while Abu (grandmother) of deceased
victim child asking her about deceased victim child, she heard that deceased
victim child was taken by accused Gauri Shankar Nath on his bicycle. She
deposed she does not know where accused Gauri Shankar Nath taken
25|Page

deceased victim child. On the next day she heard that dead body of deceased
victim child was recovered from a ditch (Bagdoba) present in between the
village of Lutapara, Kachua and Lawpara. Police arrived in their village in the
morning. Police also came to her house and took her signature when police
seized the bicycle and one mobile and she produce the bicycle to the police
which accused Gauri Shankar Nath took. She deposed she had seen the dead
body of deceased victim child at her house when her dead body was brought
at her house. In cross he stated she did not noticed when accused Gauri
Shankar Nath taken the bicycle. She did not see when accused Gauri Shankar
Nath was riding the bicycle. She further stated she did not give mobile handset
to the police and police did not seize mobile in her presence.

22. PW-14 Lalit Kr. Nath deposed he knows informant Prodip Kr. Nath,
deceased victim child and accused Gauri Shankar Nath. He deposed informant
is his next door neighbour and accused Gauri Shankar Nath is his nephew. He
deposed on the date of incident one function of marriage of his daughter was
going on and deceased victim child was murdered on the day when Pitha-
khowa function (one of the ceremonies of the marriage) of his daughter was
going on in his house. He deposed incident of murder of deceased victim girl
was took place on 15" day of Boisakh month in the year 2018 and on the next
day he heard that deceased victim child was murdered by accused Gauri
Shankar Nath. He deposed dead body of deceased victim girl was recovered
from a ditch of besimari and on the day of incident accused Gauri Shankar
Nath took his bicycle which was seized by police at his house and police took
his thumb impression on the seizure list Ext-7. He further deposed when dead
body of deceased victim child was brought to her house, he did not go to see
her dead body. In cross he stated he did not notice when accused Gauri
Shankar Nath taken away the bicycle. He did not heard that accused Gauri
Shankar Nath was moving around with the seized bicycle on the previous date
of the seizure of the bicycle. He stated police came to his house, directed him
to hand over the bicycle and accordingly he had handed over the bicycle to the
police. He stated he does not know who had killed deceased victim child and
where she was killed.

23. PW-15 Lumanta Kr. Nath deposed informant Prodip Kr. Nath is his
neighbour and deceased victim girl was daughter of informant and was aged

about 7 years old. He also knows accused Gauri Shankar Nath as Gauri
26|Page

Shankar Nath is co villager and his neighbour. He deposed incident was took
place on 29-04-18 at about 06.00 pm. On the day of incident at about 06.00
pm while he was present at his shop house situated at Puran Lawpara village,
he saw informant Prodip Kr. Nath’s gloom face. Seeing this when he asked
him, what happened to him. Informant Prodip Kr. Nath replied his daughter
was missing and accused Gauri Shankar took his daughter with him along with
accused’s nephew and Gauri Shankar returned to his home with his nephew
but his daughter (deceased victim) did not return home and when informant
Prodip Kr. Nath asked Gauri Shankar about his daughter, accused Gauri
Shankar replied to Prodip Kr. Nath that she is present somewhere but did not
disclose the name of the place where she was present. At the time when
informant Prodip Kr. Nath was narrating the incident to him, he saw accused
Gauri Shankar leaving his home and noticing the same, informant Prodip Kr.
Nath told him that see, accused Gauri Shankar is trying to abscond. At that
time he asked informant Prodip Kr. Nath to follow accused Gauri Shankar and
at that time accused Gauri Shankar was moving towards east direction which is
on way to Bangalipara and immediately informant Prodip Kr. Nath along with
one of his neighbour Pradip Nath followed Gauri Shankar and at about 07.00
pm, informant Prodip Kr. Nath, Pradip Nath and some others brought back
accused Gauri Shankar to the village. He deposed seeing large gathering in the
school field which is near to the house of accused Gauri Shankar and informant
Prodip Kr. Nath, he too visited the school field and asked accused Gauri
Shankar where about of deceased victim girl. To that accused Gauri Shankar
replied deceased victim girl is present in some places but accused did not
disclose the name of the place where deceased victim girl was present and
accused Gauri Shankar also told him in presence of gathering that he took
deceased victim girl with his nephew in the evening and all of them returned
and deceased victim girl is present somewhere. He deposed on_ being
informed, police of Raniganj Out Post and army arrived in the school field and
when police arrived, police personnel were divided in two groups. One section
of police took custody of accused Gauri Shankar and taken accused to the
Raniganj police out post and another section of the police with army personnel
remained present in the field and after taking accused Gauri Shankar to the
Raniganj police out post, police on interrogating accused, send message to the

police force who were present in the school field with them that accused Gauri
27|Page

Shankar disclose before the police regarding presence of deceased victim child
behind the bamboo bushes of school field. Accordingly they made search with
the police personnel but did not find and not finding they informed the same to
the Raniganj police over phone. Again Raniganj police, as per information
disclosed by the Gauri Shankar, asked them and to the police personnel
present in the school field to made search of the deceased victim child at
Dong, Khundo and Kachua Nadi. They made search in all the places but did not
find deceased victim child. He deposed the Kachua Nadi is large area and at
the time of searching of deceased victim child it was raining. On the next
morning, at about 04.00 am Raniganj Police, accompanying by Special. S.P
Dhubri came and also asked them to come to Kachua Nadi. Accordingly the
police party and villagers who were present in the school field also proceeded
to the Kachua Nadi. The police of Raniganj police out post accompanying by
Special. S.P Dhubri came along with accused Gauri Shankar Nath and on way
to Kachua Nadi after crossing /2 km asked accused Gauri Shankar to show the
place where deceased victim child was hidden. Accused Gauri Shankar replied
deceased victim child was kept in the Kachua Nadi (Besimari) near graveyard
and after crossing another %2 km when Special. S.P asked accused Gauri
Shankar to show the place, accused Gauri Shankar stated before the police and
them that they were approaching to the site where deceased victim child was
present in a ditch. Thereafter, when they reached the ditch (khal), they found
two ditch. Accused Gauri Shankar first shown the first ditch but in the first
ditch they did not find deceased victim child and then Special. S.P Dhubri again
ask accused Gauri Shankar to show the exact position where he had kept
deceased victim child. At that time accused Gauri Shankar shown the next
ditch and told that he had kept the dead body of deceased victim child there
and when they went to the second ditch situated near to the graveyard, near
the Kachua river ( Besimari), they saw the dead body of deceased victim child.
He deposed he saw the panty of deceased victim child removed and was below
the knee, deceased was wearing Multi colour printed Frock and same was
above the chest, head of deceased was submerged under the water, injury
mark on the head and blood was oozing out from injury. He deposed police
had taken photographs of the dead body of deceased when it was recovered
on being pointed and shown by accused Gauri Shankar. Thereafter as per

direction of the police, he along with Gajen Nath get down into the ditch and
28|Page

Gajen Nath lifted the dead body of deceased victim child and placed it on the
vehicle. He deposed the dead body of deceased victim child clearly shown that
she was rape and murdered. After recovery of the dead body Executive
Magistrate conducted inquest on the dead body and police seized the wearing
dresses of the deceased and sent dead body to Dhubri Civil Hospital for post
mortem. He deposed when accused Gauri Shankar was interrogated by the
village people, Gauri Shankar confessed that after raping deceased victim child,
he had murdered her. He further deposed during investigation police produced
him before the Id. Magistrate and he made statement before the Ld. Magistrate
vide Ext-12 and Ext 12(1) is his signature. He further deposed Ext 5 (4) is his
signature in Ext-5 seizure list. In cross he stated he did not see accused Gauri
Shankar taking deceased victim child on his bicycle but he had heard about the
said fact. He stated accused Gauri Shankar during interrogation by the village
people stated before the villagers that he committed rape on victim child and
murdered victim child (deceased). He had made statement before the police
that during interrogation by the village people, accused Gauri Shankar stated
that deceased victim child was present here and there and accused Gauri
Shankar took them to various places telling them that deceased victim child is
present there and once accused took them to his moha’s (uncle’s) house telling
them that deceased was present there in the evening time. He stated he did
not witness the exact scene of murder of deceased victim child but in the next
early morning accused Gauri Shankar shown them the dead body of deceased
victim child in the ditch near Kachua Nadi (Besimari. He stated accused Gauri
Shankar confessed before them that he had committed rape and murder of
deceased victim child and accused Gauri Shankar lead and shown the dead
body of deceased victim child to them and police in the ditch where dead body
of deceased victim child was recovered from a ditch. He denied defence
suggestion that he did not made statement before the police that accused
Gauri Shankar Nath stated before them that he had killed deceased victim
child; only to harass accused Gauri Shankar he made statement before the Ld.
Magistrate and court that accused Gauri Shankar stated before them that he
had committed rape on deceased victim child and killed her; he and villagers
assaulted Gauri Shankar when he was brought in the school field; accused
Gauri Shankar, in the school field at the time of interrogation by the village

people did not disclose the incident of murder and rape of deceased victim
29|Page

child; Gojen Nath did not lift the dead body from the ditch and he did not get
down in the water with Gajen Nath to lift the dead body; accused Gauri
Shankar is not involved in the incident of rape and murder of deceased victim
child.

24. PW-16 Imdadul Hussain is the I.0 of the case. He deposed on 29-04-
2018, he was posted as In-charge at Raniganj Out Post under Sapatgram P.S.
On that day at about 08:30 PM one Kanoj Nath S/o. Balendra Nath of vill -
Puran Lawpara came to PS and verbally informed that daughter of Pradip Kr.
Nath missing from the evening 06:30 pm. near her house from the house of
Lalit Kumar Nath where function of the marriage of the daughter of Lalit Kumar
Nath was going on. Getting the information he went to Puran Lawpara the
place of occurrence village with staff and interrogated the village people and
from the village people, he came to know that village people seen victim girl
with accused Gauri Shankar Nath during evening time. At the time of making
inquiry, he got information from some other villager that accused Gauri
Shankar Nath try to run away from the place and at that time villager
apprehended him and when he was at the place of occurrence village Puran
Lawpara, some villager namely Pradip Kr. Nath S/o. Lt. Tipin Kr. Nath and few
others brought accused Gauri Shankar Nath before him and handed over to
him. On interrogation of the accused Gauri Shankar Nath, accused stated
before him in presence of his staff, villager Prodip Kr. Nath and others that he
had taken deceased victim girl to the house of his maha Chaitanya Nath at
village - Lutapara. Hearing the same they immediately went to the house of
Chaitanya Nath with accused Gauri Shankar Nath and others and found wife of
Chaitanya Nath and on being ask, wife of Chaitanya Nath told them that
accused Gauri Shankar Nath did not come to her house as stated by him.
Thereafter, again they interrogated him and on repeated questioning, accused
Gauri Shankar Nath disclosed that he had thrown out deceased victim child in
the Lutapara Samsan ghat, Besimari where J.C.B. (excavator) used for digging
the earth. They immediately proceeded to the place along with accused Gauri
Shankar Nath and as pointed by accused Gauri Shankar Nath, they made
search in the Lutapara Samsan, Besimari but did not found the victim.
Thereafter he had informed the incident to higher police official, SDPO
Bilasipara, Special. S.P. Dhubri, S.P. Dhubri and they had taken accused Gauri
Shankar Nath to the Raniganj Out Post. In the meantime S.P. Dhubri, Special.
30|Page

S.P. Dhubri arrived at the Raniganj Out Post and thereafter accused Gauri
Shankar Nath was again questioned and on vigorous interrogation accused
Gauri Shankar Nath at about 03:40 a.m dated 30-04-2018 disclosed that he
had killed deceased victim child and thrown her dead body in the pond near
Lutapara Samsan ghat, Besimari. Accordingly they rushed to the place of
occurrence with accused Gauri Shankar Nath along with him, S.P. Dhubri,
Special. S.P., SDPO Bilasipara, O/C Sapatgram PS accompanied and villagers of
Puran Lawpara also rushed to the spot and as lead and shown by the accused
Gauri Shankar Nath, the dead body of deceased victim child recovered from a
pond near Lutapara Samsan, Besimari. He deposed the head of the dead body
was submerged under the water, and the inner (panty) of the victim girl was
removed up to the knee position and also found one injury on the back side of
the head of the deceased victim girl. Thereafter, as per their direction, Prodip
kr. Nath (father of victim), Gajen Chandra Nath and Prodip Kr. Nath S/o. Tipin
Kr. Nath, Somen Kr. Nath helped them in lifting and bringing the dead body
from the pond. Executive Magistrate was also informed and Executive
Magistrate came to the place of recovery of dead body and did inquest on the
dead body at the place of occurrence. He deposed he had taken photograph of
deceased victim child before and after lifting her from the pond. After inquest
dead body was sent to Dhubri Civil Hospital for post mortem and the wearing
apparel of victim and pant of accused was seized, the seized long pant of
accused and seized panty of the victim sent to FSL for examination. He further
deposed during investigation, he had seized one mobile handset of accused
Gauri Shankar Nath and the bicycle in which accused Gauri Shankar Nath
carried and moved deceased victim child and accused Gauri Shankar Nath took
this bicycle from the house of Lalit Chandra Nath, the uncle of accused Gauri
Shankar Nath. He deposed during interrogation accused Gauri Shankar Nath
confessed that he had committed murder of deceased victim child after
committing rape on her and thereafter thrown the dead body in the pond.
Thereafter on finding sufficient material against the accused Gauri Shankar
Nath, he arrested accused Gauri Shankar Nath and produced him before the
Ld. Magistrate and took accused for 3 days in police custody, in connection
with this incident Prodip Kr. Nath, the father of the victim child lodged written
ejahar, during investigation he had drawn sketch map of the place of

occurrence, also drawn sketch map of place of recovery of the dead body,
31| Page

produced witnesses Anil Chandra Nath, Lumanta Kr., Nath, Gajen Chandra
Nath, Prodip Kr. Nath, Somen Kr. Barman and Karindra Nath before the Ld.
Magistrate to record their statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and thereafter prays
before the Ld. SDJM (M), Bilasipara to add Section 376(AB)/201 I.P.C. R/W
Section 6 of the POCSO Act and after collecting Post mortem report submitted
charge sheet against the accused Gauri Shankar Nath to face trial u/s
302/201/376(AB) I.P.C. and R/W Section 6 of the POCSO Act vide Ext-22. He
deposed during investigation he had also collected the FSL report and
submitted before the court. He deposed Ext-13 is the Informant General Diary
Entry No. 376 dated 29-04-2018 of Raniganj Out Post; Ext-14 is the General
Diary Entry No. 381 dated 30-04-2018 with regard to accused Gauri Shankar
Nath taking them to the Lutapara Samsan, Besimari; Ext-15 is the General
Diary Entry No. 382 dated 30-04-2018 with regard to the recovery of the dead
body of deceased victim child as shown and lead by accused Gauri Shankar
Nath and then return to Police Station with accused; Ext-16 is the requisition
sent to Dhubri Civil Hospital to conduct post mortem examination on the dead
body of victim Deceased victim child Nath; Ext-17 is the dead body challan;
Ext-18 is the command certificate; Ext-19 is the seizure list of the seizure of
long pant belonging to accused Gauri Shankar Nath; Ext-20 is the sketch map
of the place of occurrence (1%) where from accused Gauri Shankar Nath took
away victim child; Ext-21 is the sketch map of the place of recovery of the
dead body (2" place of occurrence); M. Ext-(1) is the photograph of accused
Gauri Shankar Nath taken during investigation at the police station; M.Ext-2
and M.Ext-3 are the photograph of deceased victim child taken at the place of
recovery of dead body. In cross he stated when they reached the village
Puran Lawpara, they did not find accused Gauri Shankar Nath and when they
were in the place of occurrence village Puran Lawpara, they were informed by
the villager that villager apprehended accused Gauri Shankar Nath when he
tried to run away from the village. He stated he had interrogated accused
Gauri Shankar Nath in presence of the villager and accused Gauri Shankar Nath
stated that he had taken deceased victim girl to Lutapara in the house of his
Maha. He stated witnesses Chandra Bala Debya, Pradip Kr. Nath and Gajen
Chandra Nath stated before him that accused Gauri Shankar Nath had taken
and carried deceased victim child on his bicycle on the date of incident and he

did not recorded statement of nephew of accused Gauri Shankar as he was
32|Page

toddler at that time. He stated he had noted down the age of the victim as 7
(seven) years as per statement of the parents of deceased victim. As per
certificate of the accused collected by him, during investigation from the
Bholanath M.E. School where accused studies, he was 18 years old and his
date of birth is 20/09/1999 as per school certificate. He stated as per Case
diary, accused was slightly manhandled by the villager. He stated accused
Gauri Shankar Nath only to save him, he mislead the police and taken to
different places and finally accused took them to actual place where he had
thrown the dead body of deceased victim child. He stated the first place of
occurrence is school field where deceased victim child was playing with
accused Gauri Shankar Nath and second place of occurrence is the place where
the dead body of deceased victim child was recovered, and second place of
occurrence is an isolated place, where there is no human habited. The second
place of occurrence which is the place of recovery of dead body is 1% km
away from the first place of occurrence. He denied defence suggestions Gauri
Shankar Nath did not stated before him in presence of villager that he had
taken victim girl at Lutapara in the house of his Maha; accused Gauri Shankar
Nath did not stated before him and in presence of villager the presence of
dead body of deceased victim child at Lutapara Samsan, Besimari and took
them to the Lutapara Samsan, Besimari and shown dead body and dead body
was recovered at his instance; accused Gauri Shankar Nath did not confessed
commission of rape and murder of deceased victim child before him and in
presence of witnesses; accused Gauri Shankar Nath did not lead police to the
place where dead body of deceased victim child was thrown.

25. PW-17 Dr. Monalisha Choudhury is Forensic Expert. She deposed on
04-05-18 she was working as Scientific Officer at Directorate of Forensic
Science Assam, Kahilipara. On that day she had received one parcel through
Director, FSL, Kahilipara in connection with Sapatgram PS case no. 40/18 u/s
302 I.P.C vide Memo no. SDPO/BLP/2018/107 dated 03-05-18. The parcel one
consists of four exhibits in a sealed cloth cover carton box with the impression
seal corresponding with the sealed impression forwarded. Description of
articles: i. One blue colour jeans long pant. The exhibit was found packed in
polythyne packet. Marked as DNA/1647/18; ii. One Green colour underwear.
The exhibit was found packed in polythyne packet and in wet condition.
Marked as DNA/1648/18; iii. one red colour top. The Exhibit was found packed
33|Page

in polythyne packet and in wet condition. Marked as DNA/1649/18; iv. one
Multi colour frock. The Exhibit was found packed in polythyne packet and in
wet condition. Marked as DNA/1650/18. Result of DNA finger printing
Analysis- i. The Exhibit no. DNA 1647/18, DNA 1648/18, DNA 1649/18 and
DNA 1650/18 were subjected for DNA isolation but DNA yield from the exhibits
were fragmented and could not be amplified. Therefore its comparison with
each other does not arise; ii. the report of Serology Division of their laboratory
in original is attached here with. As per Serology report- One blue colored
jeans long pant contains stain of suspected semen marked As Sero-4024/A;
One green colour underwear contains stain of suspected blood and semen
marked as Sero 4024/B; One red colour top contains stains of suspected blood
and semen marked as Sero 4024/C and one multi colour frock contains stain of
suspected blood and semen marked as Sero- 4024/D and Result of
examination is i. Exhibit No. Sero- 4024/A and Sero- 4024/B gave positive
test for human semen; ii. Exhibit No. Sero-4024/C and Sero-4024/D gave
positive test for human blood and negative test for semen. Prosecution marked
report of DNA test as Ext-23 and serological test report at Ext-24. Ext-23 (1) is
her signature and Ext-24(1) is the signature of Mr. Shankar Rabha which she
knows and in Ext-25 forwarding report, Ext-25(1) is the signature of G.N.
Deka, Director cum Chemical Examiner to the Government of Assam, which
she knows. In cross she stated Director cum Chemical Examiner to the
Government of Assam endorsed her to conduct the DNA test and all the
exhibited articles are seal packed at the time of chemical examination. She
denied defence suggestions she deposed falsely that exhibited articles are
sealed packed; chemical examination was not done properly.
DISCUSSION, DECISION & REASON THERE OF:-
AGE OF THE ACCUSED

26. During the trial of the case accused took plea of juvenility and in
course of enquiry conducted as per the section 9(2) of the Juvenile Justice care
and protection Act 2015 it has been found that admission register of 1533 no.
LP School is manipulated, fabricated and made out and therefore same has not
been accepted and accused was found working for more than last two years in
a steel factory at Bongaigaon and accused plea of juvenility being not proved
same is rejected. During trial at the time of cross examination of the IO by the

defence, IO stated to proof the age of the accused that he was major at the
34|Page

time of incident, he collect school certificate of accused Gauri Shankar Nath
from the Bholanath ME School where accused studies. Accused in his 313
Cr.P.C statement in answer to question no. 14 he stated he had studied at
Bholanath ME School and as per school certificate available in the case diary
accused’s date of birth is 20-09-1999 and accordingly he was more than 18
years old and was a major on the date of incident.

27. Prosecution evidence in nutshell is that on 29-04-18 from the
evening victim child (deceased) was missing and prior to missing she was
playing in the school field present near her and accused house and before she
gone missing she was seen with accused on his bicycle along with accused’s
nephew but accused returned back with his nephew on the same bicycle and
victim child was untraced. On questioning accused gives different version of
story and pretending to search the victim child, tried to run away from the
village but accused was seen by village youth and they informed father of the
deceased victim child, thereafter father of the deceased victim child with the
help of others made search for accused and managed to apprehend him at
Halong bazar way to Bangalipara (Bilasipara), bring him to school filed, in the
meantime some villagers informed police of Raniganj outpost about missing of
the victim child and victim child was seen with accused for the last time before
her disappearance from the village and apprehension of the accused and police
arrived at village, took custody of the accused. When accused was brought to
village school field, PWs and other villagers question accused where about of
the victim child and before them he made confession that he took the victim
child on his bicycle had committed rape on victim child and killed her and when
police took his custody question him, at the time of interrogation it was
discovered that accused threw the child in the ditch and accused took the
police to the place where he threw the victim child after committing rape on
her to let her die and her body was discovered as shown by accused. Dress of
accused and deceased victim child seized by the police after recovery of the
dead body of the missing child and same were send to FSL for examination
and FSL report gave positive test of semen and human blood and autopsy
report pointed deceased victim child was rape and died due to airway asphyxia
on account of ante-mortem drowning. Dead body of the victim child was

found drowning in ditch with upside down half body, face submerged in the
35|Page

water of the ditch. According to the testimony of the PWs, autopsy and expert
report this is a case of rape with murder.
28. Now let me discuss the evidence on record in step by step to arrive at
the just decision of the case and to find out whether accused is guilty of
commission of the prosecution charge levelled against him.
Whether deceased victim was under the age of 12 years on the date
of incident?
29. Informant is the father of the victim child and he is examined as PW-1.
PW-2 is the mother of the deceased victim child. According to them deceased
victim was 7 years old at the time of incident. PW-3 to PW-9 and PW-13, PW-
15 are independent witnesses and co-villagers of informant and accused. PW-
11 is the MO of the case. PW-12 is the inquest officer and PW-16 is the IO of
the case. PW-10 is resident of Kachuagaon. PW-3 to PW-9 and PW-15 stated
deceased victim child was 7 years old at the time of incident. PW-12 inquest
officer stated age of the deceased child was 7 years. PW-11 MO of the case
deposed deceased child was 7 years old. PW-14 stated deceased child was 10
years old. Accused in his 313 Cr.P.C statement stated deceased victim child
‘Miss X’ was 9-10 years old on the date of incident. Thus, conjoint reading of
the statement of all the prosecution witnesses and statement of the accused
recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C goes to show that deceased victim child
‘Miss X’ was below 12 years old on the day of incident. Section 313 Cr.P.C
statement of the accused pointed accused admitted deceased victim child was
below 12 years old at the time of incident. Section 56 of the Evidence Act says
"Fact once admitted need no proof. Therefore, it has been proved beyond all
reasonable doubt that deceased child was below 12 years old on the date of
incident.
Marriage Function
30. The statement of PW-1 to PW-9, PW-15 is that on the date of incident,
celebration of one of the marriage ceremony of the daughter of paternal uncle
of accused was going on in the house of Lalit Nath. Further testimonies of PWs
are that on the date of incident PW-1, his victim daughter and other villagers
came to the house of accused’s paternal uncle (who is resident of same village)
where marriage function was going on. PW-13 and PW-14 is the paternal aunt
and uncle of accused and they stated on the day of incident one of the

marriage function of their daughter was going on at their house on the date of
36|Page

incident. Accused in his 313 Cr.P.C statement admitted arrival of PW-1 and his
deceased victim child in the house of marriage party wherefrom deceased
victim child went to school playground to play. Accused in his 313 Cr.P.C
statement pointed deceased victim child was playing in the school field prior to
the incident. This is an undisputed and an admitted fact that incident was took
place on 29-04-18 and on that day some marriage function was going on in the
house of paternal uncle of accused where deceased victim child came and her
father attended the function and prepared food for the guest of marriage party
as cook and village people and parents of the victim child were busy in the
house and inmates of the house were also busy with the marriage function.
The starting point of the case is from the house of marriage party where
accused, victim, her parents, other villagers, PWs came to marriage house and
from this house victim child went to play in the school field which is present
near the marriage house where form she was untraced.
Missing of victim child

31. PW-1 is the informant and father of the deceased victim child and he
stated his daughter went to play in the school field present near the house of
marriage party and his house. PW-1 further deposed when it was husk time,
his wife came and asked him to bring their daughter from the school filed as
time was about to dark. PW-2, the mother of the deceased victim child
deposed when it was husk time she came to marriage house and asked her
husband to bring their child to home. PW-2 substantiate the statement of PW-
1. Thereafter PW-1 went to school field to bring the child but he did not found
his daughter “Miss X’ (deceased victim) in the field and he reported this matter
to his wife, his friend and other villagers. Deceased victim was missing from
the school field on the evening of 29-04-18 that is on the date of marriage
function of the daughter of PW-13 and PW-14. According to the PW-1 and
other PWs of the case except official witnesses of the case and PW-10, who is
the resident of the place of recovery village, is that victim came to marriage
function, wherefrom she went to school filed (Lawpara LP School field) to play
and deceased victim was last seen with accused Gauri Shankar Nath in the
school field and on road on his bicycle. PW-14 stated on the day of incident,
accused took one bicycle from his house and said cycle was seized by the
police after the incident during investigation from his house. Deceased victim

gone missing after she was seen with the accused. PW-1 stated he saw
37|Page

accused in the school field when his daughter was playing in the school filed
and defence failed to falsified his statement and his unshaken testimony
remain stand at high footing. PW-1 told missing of his daughter from school
field to PW-6 and PW-6 corroborated the same. PW-2 to PW-9, PW-15 all
heard about missing of the victim girl from school field. PW-4 noticed accused
taking away the victim child Miss X from the school field. The testimonies of
PW-1 to PW-9, PW-15 only pointed one thing and that is victim child was
missing from the school field, where she was playing. Statement of PWs
remains unassailable and defence failed to shake their piece of evidence during
cross examination, as such un shaken, trustworthy evidence of PWs only
pointed Miss X was playing in the school field were from she was missing and
PW-4 seen accused taking away the child Miss X from the school field.
Last seen theory-

32. PW-1, father of the deceased victim child stated when he did not find
his daughter “Miss X” he asked other villagers if they saw his daughter. To that
Anjali Devi told him, she saw his daughter “Miss X” (deceased victim) with
accused Gauri Shankar Nath and accused took his daughter on his bicycle.
Anjali Devi is examined as PW-4. She deposed on the day of incident she was
present in the house of Lalit Kr. Nath, jethu of accused where marriage
function was going on and she saw accused Gauri Shankar Nath taking away
deceased child with his nephew Tilak on his bicycle. The statement of PW-1 is
corroborated by PW-4 that she had seen accused taking away deceased victim
child with him. PW-3 is another witness and her evidence revealed she saw
accused Gauri Shankar Nath taking deceased victim child with his nephew on
his bicycle and she had disclosed this fact to PW-1 when PW-1 came to her
house to enquiry about his daughter and PW-1 in his evidence before the court
deposed Chandra told him that she had seen his daughter Miss X with accused
Gauri Shankar Nath. PW-5’s evidence pointed he heard victim child was seen
with accused Gauri Shankar Nath before she gone missing. PW-6 evidence is
that while he was on way to home from Raniganj, he saw Victim child with
accused on his bicycle on the bridge of their village and accused’s nephew was
also present. PW-9 deposed accused Gauri Shankar Nath took deceased victim
child along with his nephew Tilak Nath for bicycle riding on the date of incident
just prior to her missing and incident of rape and murder. PW-7 and PW-8

deposed they heard from villagers just before victim child gone missing, she
38|Page

was seen with accused and accused took victim child on his bicycle. PW-13
deposed she heard from villagers that victim child was last seen with accused
and accused Gauri Shankar had taken her on his bicycle and thereafter she
gone missing. PW-15 stated he heard from PW-1, father of the victim child
about taking away of deceased child by accused on his bicycle. The careful
reading of the statement of PWs, more particularly from the statement of PW-
3, PW-4, PW-6 it is transpiring visibly that they have seen deceased victim child
with accused Gauri Shankar Nath on accused's bicycle along with his nephew
just before she was not found in the village that is just prior to the incident.
Defence though cross examined witnesses on this point but failed to distract
and shake them from their stand and they remain intact on their stand and
strongly stated they had seen deceased victim child with accused on his bicycle
just prior to the incident on the day of incident. It is the further testimony of
the PWs that accused return to his home on his bicycle but victim child was not
with him so accused was questioned by the father and other villager of the
child about the victim child, after that accused left his house and made attempt
to go out from the village. PW-1, the father of the deceased victim heard the
fact of his daughter (deceased victim child) was last seen with accused from
PW-3 and PW-4 and each of them substantiated, corroborated each other
respective statement and there remains nothing to disbelief, disregard their
unshaken, unrebutted piece of testimonies and the testimonies of PWs being
cogent, convincing carries weight. PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and PW-13 heard the
fact of deceased victim was last seen with accused from other villagers. PW-3,
PW-4, PW-6 are the co-villagers of PW-7, PW-8 and PW-13 and all of them
made one single consistent statement that victim child (deceased) was last
seen with accused on his bicycle and their unshaken, unassailable piece of
evidence carries weight and defence failed to overrule and falsified their piece
of evidence.

33. Section 60 of the Evidence Act says- Oral evidence must be direct. —

Oral evidence must, in all cases whatever, be direct; that is to say-

If it refers to a fact which could be seen, it must be the evidence of a
witness who says he saw it;
If it refers to a fact which could be heard, it must be the evidence of a

witness who says he heard it;
39|Page

If it refers to a fact which could be perceived by any other sense or in
any other manner, it must be the evidence of a witness who says he perceived
it by that sense or in that manner;

If it refers to an opinion or to the grounds on which that opinion is held,
it must be the evidence of the person who holds that opinion on those
grounds.

34. After careful reading of the statement of the PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and
PW-13 along with the statutory provision of law, I find PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and
PW-13 stated before the court which they heard from other co-villagers.
Informant who is also their co-villagers heard from PW-3 and PW-4, that his
daughter was last seen with accused. PW-1 stated when he asked PW-3 and
PW-4 about his daughter, they told him that they had seen his daughter with
accused on his bicycle and other PWs stated before the court what they had
heard about victim with accused from other villager. PW-3, PW-4, and PW-6
are co-villager and when each one of them stated what they have seen with
their own eye the victim with accused and PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and PW-13
stated they heard from their fellow villager that victim was last seen with
accused and when they corroborated each other statement, their piece of
evidence is primary evidence and the unshaken, unassailable corroborated
statement of PW-3, PW-4, PW-5, PW-6, PW-1, PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and PW-13
is reliable, believable acceptable and admitted piece of evidence. The evidence
on record when read carefully and minutely goes to show only one aspect that
deceased victim child was last seen with accused Gauri Shankar Nath just
before the incident. The statement of PWs pointed only one thing on the date
of incident ‘Miss X’ was playing in this school field where accused was present
with his nephew. Accused in his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C in question no. 12
admitted his nephew Tilak was present with him on the day of incident. PW-3,
PW-4, PW-6, PW-7, PW-9 and PW-15 in their 164 Cr.P.C statement in ext-3,
ext-4, ext-6, ext-9, ext-10 and ext-12 made similar consistent statement what
they have stated before the court while adducing evidence. Therefore, their
consistent statement is trust worthy and is fairly reliable and acceptable piece
of evidence. Now, from the evidence on record, it is an unequivocally establish
and admitted fact that deceased victim child was missing from the school play-
ground where accused was present and seen by PW-1 and PW-4. It is equally

established that before she gone missing she was last seen with accused that
40|Page

is just prior to the incident on the day of incident deceased victim child was
seen with accused person and this fact of last seen is established against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
Seizure
35. PW-14 is the paternal uncle of accused and he stated on the day of
incident pitha khowa (one of the marriage related) ceremony of his daughter
was going on at his house and accused Gauri Shankar Nath took bicycle from
his house on that day and police seized said bicycle from his house. Seizure of
this bicycle by the IO of the case vide Ext-7 is admitted by the accused Gauri
Shankar Nath in his statement recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C in question no. 17. In
this bicycle accused took the victim girl before the incident on the day of
incident that was seen by PW-3, PW-4, PW-6 which is remains unassailable.
Thus, the statement of the PWs together with the statement of the accused
made in 313 Cr.P.C, it is now abundantly clear that on the date of incident
accused took one bicycle from his jethu’s (PW-14) house and on the said
bicycle he took victim and said bicycle was seized by the IO during
investigation of the case and he was last seen with the deceased victim child
just before the incident. PW-16, the IO of the case seized jeans long pant wear
by the accused on the date of incident; panty, frock and top of the deceased
and IO sent to FSL for examination. Accused in his 313 Cr.P.C statement
admits that police seized his long pant that was wear by him on the date of
incident and panty, top, frock of deceased found with her dead body.
Absconding theory.

36. Prosecution’s next plea is absconding theory. It is the statement of
witnesses that accused made attempt to run away from the place of
occurrence village just after the incident when every villager came to know
about the missing of the victim child and she was last seen with accused.
When villagers noticed accused left his home and proceeded to leave the
village, villager alerted father of the victim child and father of the victim child
with the help of villager managed to apprehend him. PW-1 informant of the
case and father of the deceased victim child deposed not finding his daughter
in the Lawpara school filed where his daughter (deceased victim) went to play
and hearing news that she was last seen with accused Gauri Shankar Nath, he
asked Gauri Shankar where about of his daughter when accused was coming

home with his nephew Tilak on the bicycle but PW-1 did not get positive reply
41|Page

from the accused and noticing accused suspicious look and contradictory
answer given to him, he charted accused with his friend Pradip (his Mita) and
Dharmendra. His evidence pointed accused Gauri Shankar entered into the
compound of Naba Nath sensing their presence but accused did not come out
from the compound of Naba Nath and therefore he along with Pradip and
Dharmendra entered into Naba Nath compound and made enquiry into Naba
Nath’s house and came to know from the wife of Naba Nath that accused Gauri
Shankar Nath did not came to her house.

37. Here accused by entering into the compound of Naba Nath tried to give
impression to PW-1 and his friend Pradip and Dharmendra that he came to the
house of Naba Nath in search of deceased victim which is not the true picture
and is the tricks played by the accused sensing they were following him so
thus to dupe PW-1 and his friend accused entered into the compound of Naba
Nath. The attempt of the accused to run away from the village is clearly
coming out just after the incident from the statement of PW-1. PW-1, his mita
Pradip and Dharmendra sensing foul play of accused entered into the house of
Naba Nath and made enquiry and cats comes out from the pocket that accused
Gauri Shankar Nath did not went to the house of Naba Nath and in reality he
tried to abscond. Further testimonies of PW-1, pointed he along with his mita
Pradip, Shankar Nath and Dharmendra made search for accused Gauri Shankar
and they spotted him at Halong bazar near their village and apprehended
accused and took him with them in their village. Statement of PW-15 pointed
time when informant narrated incident of missing of his daughter to PW-15,
both of them noticed accused Gauri Shankar Nath leaving his house and Prodip
Kr. Nath, informant told this fact to him and to follow him and nab him.
Accordingly PW-15 with his friend PW-6 Pradip followed accused and managed
to apprehend accused. At that time accused Gauri Shankar Nath was moving
towards east direction which is on way to Bangalipara. PW-6 evidence
revealed, after getting news of missing of deceased victim child from her
father, he went there and at that time Dharmendra of their village informed
them that accused was going towards Bilasipara town (Bangalipara is at
Bilasipara town) and hearing this he, PW-1 and Dharmendra proceeded on a
bike and at Halong Bazar they noticed accused, called him, stopped him, hold
him and bring him to their village. PW-9 deposed when village people grilled

accused and questioned him about deceased victim child, he try to run away
42|Page

from the village. Testimonies of PW-5, PW-7 goes to show that accused after
the incident tried to leave the village and villagers apprehended him and bring
back to the village. Accused in his statement recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C stated he
was held by PW-1, PW-6, PW-15 at Halong Bazar and brought at Lawpara LP
school field.

38. Scrutiny of entire evidence on record goes to show that when accused
was grilled by the parents of the child ‘Miss X’ when she was untraced, accused
gave different reply and told father of the child that he too will made search for
the child thereafter accused pretending to made search for the victim child, is
about to leave the village and made attempt to run away from the village but
same was noticed by the villager Dharmendra and Dharmendra informed PW-1
the father of the victim child ‘Miss X’ and PW-1, with his friend mita PW-6 and
Dharmendra in right time jump for his search, noticed him and managed to
apprehend him at Holong Bazar and brought back to village from Halong
Bazar. The statement of the PWs clearly goes to show that when news of
missing of deceased victim child was spread in the village and that she was last
seen with accused before she gone missing (at that time the only thing comes
to the knowledge is missing of the girl) that is just prior to the incident,
accused made attempt to flee from the village. Accused was last seen with
victim girl (deceased) and with him his nephew Tilak was present but accused
returned home with his nephew riding on his bicycle, on which bicycle he
carried deceased victim with him along with his nephew and seeing him
without the victim girl when parents and other villagers questioned him where
about of deceased victim child, daughter of PW-1, he tried to run away from
the village and this is an important point coming in favour of the prosecution.
The accused attempt to run away from the village just after the incident when
all are making search of the girl draws only presumption against him of his
involvement with the incident. But in the case in hand on account of timely
receiving information by PW-1, PW-6 from Dharmendra about his planning to
leave the village, they went to the direction used by accused and apprehend
accused. Accused Gauri Shankar after the incident made attempt to abscond is
disclosed by the PWs in a clear unambiguous way however, accused attempt to
run away from the village is not materialized and PW-1, PW-6 and Dharmendra
pour water on his plan of absconding and he was apprehended by PW-1, PW-6
and Dharmendra and brought back to school field of Lawpara LP School where
43|Page

he was question about the victim child.Attempt of the accused to leave
suddenly from the village just after the incident and then apprehension of the
accused by the PW-1 with other witnesses and villagers of the deceased
victim's village is another vital factor produced and adduced by the prosecution
to prove the prosecution charge against the accused. Prosecution able to bring
home the plea of absconding against the accused just after the incident
without any doubt.
Extra judicial confession of the accused.

39. Interrogation of the accused by the villagers:- Statement of PW-
1, informant pointed he questioned accused more than one occasions. First
when he was searching his daughter and did not found her and learnt from
other that his daughter ‘Miss X’ (deceased victim child) was last seen with
accused Gauri Shankar Nath, PW-1 asked accused where about of his daughter
when accused was coming to his house. Evidence of other PWs also pointed
accused after taking his nephew and deceased child on his bicycle returned to
his house with his nephew but deceased was not with him and then after
dropping his nephew at home, he tried to run away from the village when
villagers came to know about victim child (deceased) was missing and she was
last seen with accused just before she gone missing.

40. PW-1 with his friend Mita Pradip (PW-6) with Dharmendra apprehended
accused from Halong Bazar and bring him to their village and at that time
accused was questioned by villagers and someone of their village informed
police about the missing of the daughter of PW-1. Cross examination of the
PW-1 revealed when PW-1 first noticed accused Gauri Shankar Nath, he asked
accused and accused on being asked by PW-1 replied that he (accused)
dropped his daughter at his (PW-1's) house. PW-1 in chief stated when he
questioned accused about his daughter, accused told him that he dropped her
at house and to that PW-1 replied to accused if he had dropped her at home
why she is not found at home. Cross examination of PW-1 further pointed
when PW-1 questioning accused when he was coming with his nephew, with
whom villagers had earlier seen deceased victim last time with accused along
with his bhagin, accused bhagin stated that accused threw his daughter
(deceased victim child) in a ditch. It is the evidence of all the PWs, at the time
of interrogation of the accused by the villager when accused was coming home

with his nephew, his nephew told, accused threw the victim in a ditch. Nephew
44|Page

of the accused was a small (toddler) boy of aged hardly about 3 years old so
he was not taken while search of deceased victim was made.

41. Testimonies of PW-5 bring on record that when accused was bring to
village, villagers questioned him about deceased victim and he was present at
that time of questioning of accused and accused confessed before them that
he had taken deceased child on his bicycle for riding and accused took them
(villagers) in different places. Cross examination of PW-5 bring that accused
made statement before PW-5 and other villager that he had taken deceased
victim girl with him, rape her and murder her. By the time, when villager were
questioning where about of the child, police arrived at their village and police
questioned accused about deceased child and then took him to police station
for further investigation keeping one section of police at village and as
disclosed by the accused at the police station and transmission of the message
to the rest section of police present at 1533 Lawpara LP School campus, police
with the help of PW-5, PW-6 Prodip, PW-1, PW-15, Dayal and others made
search of the deceased victim.

42. Testimonies of PW-6 and PW-7 pointed accused during question by the
villager stated in their presence that he had killed the victim girl after
committing rape. During cross examination by the defence PW-6 and PW-7
firmly stated during interrogation by them, accused Gauri Shankar made
statement before them that he had committed rape on deceased child and
then murdered her and accused made this statement in their presence and in
presence of other villagers at the time of interrogation. It is also coming out
from the cross examination of PW-6 that accused made attempt to abscond
and he with PW-1 and another managed to apprehend him at Halong Bazar
just after the incident. PW-7 in cross stated that before Ld. Magistrate he made
statement that accused confessed before them that accused Gauri Shankar
committed rape on victim child ‘ Miss X’ and then he murder her.

43. PW-9 in his in chief and in his cross stated accused was questioned by
the villagers about deceased victim child and he cropped up different stories
and in cross he stated accused confessed before them that he had rape and
killed deceased victim and denied defence suggestion that he did not made
statement before the police that accused confessed before them that he had
killed deceased after committing rape on her. PW-9 was present when accused

was being questioned by them and in his presence accused made confession
45|Page

that he rape her and kill her. PW-15 in his chief and cross stated during
questioning of accused by the villagers where PW-15 was present and also
questioned accused Gauri Shankar about victim child and acc made different
stories of her presence to fool them at first and then confessed before him and
other villagers that accused Gauri Shankar Nath committed rape on deceased
victim child and killed her. PW-6, PW-7 deposed they interrogated accused in
presence of other villagers and police and accused Gauri Shankar made
different stories of presence of dead body of the deceased victim at different
places and on next morning at about 4 a.m. accused finally took police and
villagers to the Samsan ghat where from dead body of deceased victim child
was recovered. Accused in his 313 Cr.P.C statement stated that he was
questioned by villagers at Lawpara L.P. School and he stated different stories
about Miss X and search of the child as per his statement.

44. Scanning of the testimonies of PWs pointed when villager grilled
accused Gauri Shankar Nath, he confessed before them that he had taken
deceased on his bicycle and committed rape and killed her. PW-16, IO of the
case corroborated the same while adducing his evidence. Cross examination of
the witnesses by the defence failed to shake their testimony and statement of
PWs more particularly the statement of PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-9 and PW-15
who were independent witness and co-villagers of informant as well as accused
and were present at the time of questioning of accused till making of the
statement by the accused before them strongly, firmly made statement that
accused made statement before them in presence of villagers when questioned
about the victim child that he (accused) had taken victim child on his bicycle,
committed rape on her, threw her and killed her. PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-9 and
PW-15 before the police and before the Ld. magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C made
similar statement that accused made statement before them that he had taken
the victim child on his bicycle, then committed rape and finally murder her and
threw her in the ditch. All of them made similar consistent statement in all the
stages and during cross examination too they made same statement. Accused
Gauri Shankar Nath admits his guilty before the independent person who are
his co-villager and all of them were neutral, un-biased person and there is no
enmity between accused and PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-9 and Pw-15. There is no
force, promise present to extract the confessional statement of the accused by

PWs and accused during question by the villager where PW-5, PW-6, PW-7,
46|Page

PW-9 and PW-15 were also present and in their presence he made confession
that he took ‘Miss X’ with him on his bicycle, rape her, threw her and killed her.
45. The PWs made further statement that accused during interrogation by
the villagers, made different stories of presence of dead body of the deceased
victim. Accused made different stories of presence of the victim child in
different places only to misled and divert the direction of search and to delay
the search for the child so that victim child must die in the ditch and there
should not be any chance of her surviving. All the PWs made statement before
the court what was actually taken place in the school field after missing of the
girl and when they were making search for the girl and how accused fooling
the villager in finding out the victim girl. On the next morning accused led
villager and police to the place where he threw the victim girl to die after
having sexual intercourse with her. I further find that different statement made
by the accused Gauri Shankar @ Banka with regard to the presence of the
deceased child in different place before the villager is only to create confusion
in the mind of villager so to make him innocent and to divert the path of search
of the girl and his different story of presence of the victim girl is coming out
after his statement that he took victim girl on his bicycle, rape her and kill her
and this has no adverse impact on his extra judicial confessional statement and
this is only because he tried to delay the search of the girl only to eliminate the
girl from this world so that there is no hope of her survive and wanted to
screen himself from the legal punishment, to wipe out the evidence of the case
by eliminating victim from disclosing the incident. The unshaken, unassailable
and consistent statement of PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-9 and PW-15 only goes to
show that accused made statement before them that he took the victim girl on
his bicycle from the school field and he rape her and then kill her and there is
no room to disbelief the testimonies of PWs with regard to the confession of
the accused made before them which is voluntary, with free consent and
without any force, promise, pressure, undue influence and I believe the
unshaken testimonies of PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-9 and PW-15 and I have
acted upon the same against the accused person as because their unbiased
testimonies carries weight and same is cogent, convincing, trustworthy and

admissible piece of evidence.
47|Page

Leading to Discovery
(Prosecution next plea hinged on leading to discovery)

46. PWs made statement that dead body of deceased victim child was
recovered as shown by the accused Gauri Shankar Nath. The statement of PWs
further pointed during interrogation accused Gauri Shankar Nath made
statement of committing rape on victim and killing her and accused cropped up
different stories to mislead villagers and police to recover the dead body of the
victim child at the beginning but finally on next morning in between 4 to 4.15
AM, accused open up his mouth, led police and villagers to the place where he
had threw deceased victim child after committing rape on her to kill her. It is
the statement of PW-1, PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and PW-15 that
bhagin of the accused at the initial time of questioning of accused about the
victim child, told that accused threw the victim child in ditch. Said child was
about 3 years old at the time of incident so none have taken him seriously
while searching the girl. Accused in his statement recorded under section 313
Cr.P.C admitted that he was grilled by the villagers and villagers handed over
him to the police on the date of incident on 29-04-98 and police grilled him. He
admitted on 30-04-18 early morning at about 04 .00 to 04.30 am dead body of
deceased victim was recovered from a ditch near Samsan ghat of Besimari
(Lutapara village) and at that time he was in police custody.

47. PW-1 informant and father of the deceased victim child deposed after
apprehension of accused by him with the aid of his Mita Pradip PW-6 and
Dharmendra they brought accused to their village, questioned accused about
his daughter (deceased) and some one of their village informed police, police
arrived and took custody of the accused and taken him to police station
(Raniganj police out post) and during interrogation of the accused by the
police, at the beginning accused stated name of different places’ about the
presence of the dead body of the victim child accordingly when the message
was sent to them by the police from the police station to the police who were
present in the school field with them then they with police force present in the
school field made search for the dead body of the deceased victim child for
whole night but could not trace out the dead body of the victim child. This fact
is corroborated by PW-16, the IO of the case. It is the further testimonies of
PW-1, PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and PW-15 and PW-16 the IO of the
case that on next day early morning at about 4 AM to 4.15 AM PW-16 the IO of
48|Page

the case with higher police officer of Dhubri District brought accused to their
village and again interrogated accused in their presence and at this time
accused disclosed that he threw the girl in the ditch present near the
graveyard of Besimari Lutapara village graveyard (samsan ghat) present near
the river Kachua which is about 1% KM distance from the Puran Lawpara
village from where incident was started and accused took all of them and led
police and village people to Besimari Samsan ghat. PW-1 went there with
police and other villager and at that time PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and
PW15 were also proceeded and reach the Besimari Samsan ghat. At Besimari
Samsan ghat, accused shown the ditch which is near the samsan ghat where
victim child was thrown by the accused and at this place dead body of PW-1's
deceased victim daughter ‘Miss X’ was recovered as shown by the accused.
This piece of statement of PW-1 is supported, corroborated by PW-5, PW-6,
PW-7, PW-8, PW-9, PW-15 and PW-16, the IO of the case and PW-1, PW-5,
PW-6, PW-7, PW-8, PW-9, PW-15 headed by PW-16, the IO of the case with
other higher police official were present at the place of recovery when accused
lead them and shown the dead body of the 7 years old deceased victim child
‘Miss X’ in the ditch. The dead body of the child was discovered as per
statement of the accused Gauri Shankar Nath during investigation of the case
and this is one of the most vital facts of the case. PW-1 was present at the
place of recovery of the dead body of his deceased daughter Miss X and he
along with other villagers went to place of recovery when accused while in
police custody took police to the place of recovery and as pointed and shown
by accused Gauri Shankar, dead body of the deceased victim child was
recovered in the early morning of next day of incident. PW-2 is the mother of
the victim child and she deposed she got the news of recovery of the dead
body of her minor daughter Miss X from her husband PW-1. The recovery of
the dead body of the victim child was took place as per statement of accused
and same is witness by PW-5 to PW-9 and PW-15 in presence of the IO of the
case with other senior police official.

48. PW-3 and PW-4 are lady and they got to know on the next day of
incident that is on the date of recovery of the dead body of the child that dead
body of victim child was recovered from a ditch.

49. PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-8, PW-9 and PW-15 are present at the place of

recovery and they went to Kachua Beel (Besimari Samsan Ghat) when accused
49|Page

led police to the samsan ghat place and in a ditch near Samsan ghat accused
shown dead body of the deceased victim child. PW-5 deposed at about 04.05
am police bring accused Gauri Shankar Nath at their village and this time
accused took police party to the Lutapara Samsan ghat near the river Kachua
and accused in his presence, in presence of villagers and police show the dead
body of deceased victim child and dead body of the deceased victim child was
recovered as stated and shown by accused which he disclosed during
interrogation by the police in his/their presence. Till this time nobody was
aware that dead body of the deceased victim was present there. Whole night
villagers made search of deceased victim girl but she was untraced living or
dead and her dead body was recovered only when accused disclosed the place
of keeping the dead body. Statement of PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-8, PW-9, PW-
15 and PW-1 further pointed when accused shown dead body of the deceased,
police took photograph of the deceased and dead body was recovered in the
position of half submerged up-side down in ditch and another photograph of
the deceased was taken after lifting of the dead body from the ditch. M. Ext-2
and M. Ext-3 are the photograph of the deceased victim child taken by the
police at the place of recovery. Accused in his 313 Cr.P.C statement admitted
that police took photograph of deceased victim when her body was first
discovered in the ditch and was recovered and her dead body was recovered
from ditch near Lutapara Samsan ghat which is 1%2 km away from his village.
All the facts are admitted fact.

50. PW-16 is the IO of the case and his evidence is that dead body of the
deceased victim child was recovered on the statement made by the accused
and it was accused who during investigation took police to the place Lutapara (
Besimari) Samsan Ghat (Kachua Beel) and show the dead body of the victim
child and dead body of the deceased victim child was recovered as per
statement disclosed by the accused during interrogation when he was in police
custody. Pw-16, the IO of the case corroborated the statement of rest PWs
with regard to recovery of the dead body as led by accused. PW-5, PW-6, PW-
7, PW-8, PW-9, PW-15 were villagers and they were independent witness.
They have no personal enmity with accused. There is nothing comes out
against them to disbelief their piece of statement. PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-8,
Pw-9, PW-15 and PW-1 the informant of the case went to the place of

recovery when accused took police to the Samsan ghat and all of them present
50|Page

with police when accused disclosed, pointed and shown the dead body of
deceased victim child in the ditch present near Lutapra Samsan ghat in their
presence. PW-10 is the person in whose land ditch was present and he too
stated dead body of one child was recovered from the ditch present on his land
and said deceased child hail from village Lawpara and this ditch is present near
the Kachua beel Samsan ghat. PW-13 and PW-14 are relative of accused and
they stated dead body of the deceased child recovered on the next day
morning of the incident from ditch and said ditch is present near Lutapara
Kachua beel.

oils The conjoint reading of the statement of PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9, PW-15
and PW-16, the IO of the case bring only one thing and that is on the next day
of incident early morning at about 04.00 to 04.30 am police bring accused
Gauri Shankar Nath to the village school field wherefrom police took his
custody, again questioned him and accused Gauri Shankar Nath took police to
the Samsan ghat and PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9, PW-15 and some other villagers
followed them and reached the place where accused took police and accused
pointed the ditch which is present near the Samsan ghat about 1 %2 km away
from the Puran Lawpara village and dead body of the deceased victim was
recovered. It was lifted from the ditch by PW-5 and he was helped by other
villagers. PW-12 the inquest officer deposed he had conducted inquest on the
dead body at the place of recovery of the dead body which was lying by the
side of ditch.

52: Accused Gauri Shankar Nath in his statement recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C
admitted on the date of incident he was apprehended (held up) by the village
people for the incident and on same day he was handed over to police, dead
body of the victim was recovered from ditch near Samsan ghat (Lutapara
Besimari) on early next morning and police taken photograph of the deceased
victim at the place of recovery. Accused in his 313 Cr.P.C. statement admitted
Gajen Nath Lifted the dead body of the deceased victim girl as directed by the
police present at place of recovery of the deceased girl, inquest was done at
place of recovery, police seized dead body with the dress of the deceased
victim at place of recovery. Only point he denied is he did not took police to
the place of recovery. Here pausing for a while, let me reverse back to whole
picture of discovery of deceased victim child. Victim girl was missing from the

school field, she was last seen with accused, accused was questioned about
51|Page

the girl, he give different reply, try to flee way from the village he was
apprehended by the villager and handed over to police on the day of incident
and accused was in police custody when dead body of the victim child was
recovered, accused know the place of recovery of the dead body of the
deceased victim girl, position of the dead body in the ditch upside down, taking
up of the photograph of the deceased at the place of recovery, Gajen lifted the
dead body of the deceased victim girl from the ditch, place of recovery ditch is
near samshan ghat (graveyard), inquest of the child at the place of recovery,
accused known seizure of dead body with the dress of the deceased victim
child at place of recovery at about 04.00 to 04.30 am, the time stated by all
the PWs pointed only one thing that it is accused who led the police to the
place of recovery of the deceased victim child, and dead body was recovered
as per disclosure made by the accused. All the aforesaid fact were only known
to accused as because it was he who led for the discovery of the dead body of
the child and his only denial that he did not took police to the place of recovery
is nothing but lame excuse and it is accused false statement before the court.
53. Thus, from the entire scanning of the evidence on the record together
with the statement of the accused recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C, I have come to my
considered judicious decision that prosecution beyond all reasonable doubt
establish that during investigation at the time of interrogation of the accused
Gauri Shankar Nath, his statement led discovery of the dead body of the child
which is the vital clue of the case. Where about of the dead body of the victim
child was not known to any person prior to recovery of the dead body of the
child and it was possible only when accused took police and villager to the
place of recovery and show the ditch where he threw the victim girl and dead
body of the child was recovered at his instance. Victim child was last seen with
accused Gauri Shankar Nath. Accused returned to home but victim girl gone
missing. Whole night villager made search for the deceased victim girl but
could not trace out and her dead body was recovered only when accused took
police and villagers to the ditch near Samsan ghat (Lutapara Besimari village)
where he threw the child and this fact is only known to him and dead body of
victim child was discovered and recovered at his instance. Prosecution fairly
able to establish the theory of leading to discovery against the accused Gauri
Shankar Nath @ Banka.
52|Page

Medical Evidence

Analysis of Post Mortem report and oral evidence on the injury found

on the dead body of deceased victim child.
54. As per Ext-11 PM report, on 30-04-18 PW-11 Dr. Sheikh Md. Azahar

(M.O) had conducted post mortem examination on the dead body of ‘Miss xX’
and found- External Appearance -An average built female child dead body was
examined, frothing from mouth and nostril noted, rigor mortis present in all 4
limbs; Wounds - position and character — i. Abrasion of (1 x 0.5 cm) on Right
eye lid and abrasion of (0.5 x 0.5 cm) on Left eye lid, ii. Laceration on Mid-
scalp (2 x 0.5 cm); Bruise - position size and nature —i. Bruise of around (1 x
0.5 cm) noted around lateral part of vaginal introitus, ii. 0.5 cm of hymen tear
noted on posterior part, iii. (0.5 x 0.5 cm) of anal mucosal tear on posterior
part noted; Cranium and Spinal canal - Scalp, skull, vertebrae - As described;
Membrane — Healthy; Brain and spinal cord — Healthy; Walis, ribs and cartilage
— healthy; Pleurae — Edematous; Laryax and trachere - White frothing noted in
trachea and larynx; Right lung - Voluminous, water-logged lungs; Left lung -
Voluminous, water-logged; Pericardium — Healthy; Heart - pale and healthy;
Vessels — Collapsed; Abdomen -Walls — Healthy; Peritoneum — Healthy; Mouth,
pharynx, oesophagus — Healthy; Stomach and its contents - Healthy and
water; Small intestine and its contents - healthy and semi digested food
particles; Large intestine and its contents - Healthy and fecal content; Liver —
Healthy; Spleen — healthy; Kidneys — Pale; Bladder — Empty; Organs of
generation, extema, and internal - As described; More detailed description of
injury or disease — i. Injuries described are ante-mortem in nature, ii. Injuries
around vagina and anal region is due to forceful insertion of hard object,
probably erect penis, iii. Vaginal and anal swab is preserved and sent for smear
examination. According to opinion of PW-11 the M.O, cause of death is due to
airway asphyxia sustained due to ante-mortem drowning

55. PW-1 is the informant and father of the victim child and he was present
at the place of recovery of the dead body of the deceased victim child. His
evidence is that he noticed head of the dead body submerged under water
upside down and panty was removed. He deposed he had seen blood stain on
the forehead and back of the head of his daughter. PW-2 is the mother of
deceased victim child and her evidence is that she saw injury mark on the

forehead of her deceased daughter and she was naked when brought at home.
53|Page

PW-3, PW-4 deposed they visited informant house when dead body of the
victim child brought at home and they saw injury on her head and naked body
of the deceased. PW-9 stated he went to the place of recovery and seen the
dead body and there was an injury on her head (deceased child), panty of the
deceased was removed and pulled down below the knee and frock was lifted
above chest when he saw the dead body the moment it was recovered. PW-5
to PW-8 deposed as pointed by the accused dead body of the deceased victim
child was recovered from ditch near Kachua beel of Lutapara (Besimari)
Samsan ghat. Their further evidence is that head of the deceased was
submerged under the water and inner (panty) of the victim girl was removed
and pulled down up to knee and frock was above her chest. M.Ext-2 and
M.Ext-3 are the photograph of the deceased victim child taken up by the police
at the time of recovery of the dead body of the victim child at the place of
recovery. M. Ext-3 shown the position in which dead body of the victim child
was noticed and recovered. M.Ext-3 clearly show that head of the victim child
was submerged under the water of the ditch with panty pulled down up to
knee and M Ext-2 more clearly show that panty of deceased victim child was
pulled down below knee, there was presence of injury mark in forehead.

56. PW-5 deposed he noticed injury on the forehead of the deceased child,
blood oozing out from the nostril, mark of injury present in her private part. It
is the PW-5 who pulled out the dead body from the ditch and he gave his
gamosha to cover the child’s dead body. So he noticed each and every inch of
the injury present on the dead body of the deceased child from a very close
proximity. PW-6 deposed he too seen injury on the head of the deceased. PW-
7 noticed head injury on the dead body of the victim child. PW-8 seen head
injury. PW-1 stated after the recovery of the dead body, Ld. Magistrate
conducted inquest and dead body sent to Dhubri Civil Hospital for post
mortem. Rest PWs made statement to the line of PW-1 that after recovery of
the dead body of the victim child at the instance of accused Gauri Shankar
Nath, Ld. Magistrate conducted inquest and police sent dead body to Dhubri
Civil Hospital for post mortem. PW-15 deposed he saw injury mark on the
head, blood was oozing out from injury and may be due to rain, blood stain
was washed out by rain water.

57. PW-12 is the inquest officer. At that time he was working as Circle

Officer, Chapar Revenue Circle. His evidence reveal he had conducted inquest
54|Page

at the place of recovery i.e near the ditch present near the Besimari Lutapara
graveyard and dead body was kept by the side of the ditch where from dead
body was recovered. His evidence further pointed frothy substance coming out
from the nose, seen injury mark below the lower lips, eye in between both eye
lid, eyebrow, one injury mark below lower lips, injury mark back side of the
head and blood clot seen in the anal area of the deceased.

58. As per post mortem report, during post mortem examination on the
dead body of deceased child, PW-11 Dr. Sheikh Md. Azahar found injuries- i.
Abrasion of (1 x 0.5 cm) on Right eye lid and abrasion of (0.5 x 0.5 cm) on Left
eye lid, ii. Laceration on Mid-scalp (2 x 0.5 cm); iii. Bruise of around (1 x 0.5
cm) noted around lateral part of vaginal introitus, iv. 0.5 cm of hymen tear
noted on posterior part, vi. (0.5 x 0.5 cm) of anal mucosal tear on posterior
part noted.

59. PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9 and PW-15 testimony pointed when they saw
dead body of the victim child immediately after discovery on being pointed and
shown by the accused, they noticed body of the victim child was half
submerged under the water, frock lifted above chest, panty removed and
pulled down below the knee, injury mark on head. Testimonies of PW-5
pointed he noticed injury mark on the private parts of the deceased girl.
Inquest report and PM report shown injury on the head, private parts of the
deceased victim child. PW-1 to PW-9, PW-15 deposed accused made statement
before them in presence of police that accused Gauri Shankar Nath committed
rape and committed murder of the child and it is accused who show the dead
body in the ditch. PW-16, the IO of the case stated accused before him and
superior police officer of the Dhubri district in presence of village people made
statement that he had committed rape and murder of the deceased victim
child.

60. The oral testimony together with the post mortem report goes to show
that deceased child was rape before her death and hymen tear injury around
vagina and anal region is due to forceful insertion of hard object, probably
erect penis. The autopsy report together with the inquest report of the
deceased child corroborated the oral testimonies of the PWs on the injury
present on the dead body of the deceased victim child and it is evident from

the autopsy report that deceased was rape before her murder.
55|Page

Analysis of FSL report.

61. PW-17 is the FSL expert. PW-16 is the I/O of the case. PW-16 IO of the
case stated during investigation he had seized panty of the deceased girl and
long pant of the accused and sent to FSL for examination. Accused in his 313
Cr.P.C statement stated police seized his jeans long pant that was wear by him
on the date of incident and panty and frock (wearing dress) of the deceased
victim girl. M. Ext-5 one panty of deceased and long pant of the accused
seized by PW-16. By Ext-19, PW-16 seized long pant of the accused from
accused possession. PW-16 deposed he had collected FSL report and submit
before the court.

62. PW-17 stated on 04-05-18 she was working as Scientific Officer at
Directorate of Forensic Science Assam, Kahilipara and on that day she received
one parcel through Director FSL, Kahilipara in connection with Sapatgram PS
Case No. 40/18 u/s 302 IPC and parcel contain one blue colour jeans long
pant, one green colour under wear, and red colour top, one multi colour frock.
During examination they marked blue coloured jeans long pant as Sero 4024/A
contains stain of suspected blood and semen and green colour panty marked
as Sero 4024/B and Exhibit no. Sero 4024/A and Sero 4024/B gave positive
test for human semen. Ext 4024/A is the jeans pant of accused and Ext Sero
4024/B is the green colour undergarment ( panty) of the victim child. Frock
and top gave positive test for human blood as per serological test. Ext-24 is
the serological test report. Her testimonies pointed DNA yield from the exhibit
that is green colour panty, blue colour jeans, one red colour top and one multi
colour frock were fragmented and could not be amplified, therefore,
comparison of each other does not arise but serological test report gave
positive test of semen in panty and jeans pant. Ext-23 is DNA report.

63. Exhibit No. Sero 4024/C and Sero 4024/D, red colour top and multi
colour frock gave positive test for human blood. M Ext-2 and M. EXT-3 photo of
the deceased girl shown top and frock was lifted above chest so it gave
negative test of semen but panty that was wear by the deceased victim child
on the date of incident which was found with the dead body and the jeans long
pant that was wear by the accused on the date of incident and seized from his
possession gave positive test of human semen. PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9, PW-15,
PW-16, PW-12 stated they found blood stain/clot present on the frock of the
deceased girl and blood of frock and top gave positive test for human blood.
56|Page

Witnesses further deposed blood was oozing out from the injury of the
deceased victim child.

64. Accused was wearing seized jeans long pant blue colour on the date of
incident. M. Ext-1 is the coloured photograph of the accused. M. Ext-1 coloured
photograph of the accused shown he was wearing blue colour jeans on the
date of incident. Accused admitted in his 313 Cr.P.C statement that police
seized his blue colour jeans long pant from his possession which he was
wearing on the date of incident. PW-16 IO stated after seizure of the long pant
of the accused and panty, frock and top of the deceased girl, he sent all
seizure dress to FSL Kahilipara for chemical examination and panty of the
deceased victim child and long pant of the accused gave positive test of
semen. There is no explanation from the defence side.

65. Taking together testimonies of PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9, PW-15, PW-11,
PW-12, PW-16 and PW-17 goes to show only one point that deceased victim
child was rape on the date of incident and then murdered. Their testimonies
together with the testimonies of PW-17 expert bring only one point that it is
accused Gauri Shankar Nath who on the day of incident after taking victim
child on his bicycle took her to the isolated place of samsan ghat and
committed rape on her and threw her in the ditch to eliminate her to wipe out
the evidence of crime committed by him. Deceased Victim child was 7 years
old. Post mortem report revealed forceful insertion of erect penis in the vagina
and anus of the victim child and post mortem report further pointed injury on
vagina and anus and injury run from vagina to anus of the victim child and
blood oozing out from vagina and anus, hymen torn, presence of semen in the
panty of deceased and jeans of accused , autopsy report establish commission
of rape on victim and all these point clearly bring on record the ingredients of
section 5(m) of the POCSO Act and section 376-AB IPC.

66. It is clearly coming out from ocular as well as medical and expert
evidence of serological test report that deceased victim child was a victim of
aggravated penetrative sexual assault and this is covered by the definition of
rape defined in section 375 I.P.C. and the deceased victim was 7 years old girl
at the time of incident and I find prosecution beyond all reasonable doubt
established that victim child was rape before committing murder of her.
Presence of semen in the seized jeans long pant of the accused together with

his extra judicial confession made before the witnesses more particularly
57|Page

before the PW-5 to PW-9 and PW-15 that he had sexual intercourse with the
child victim who was aged about 7 years old at the time of incident proved the
prosecution charge of section 376-AB and section 6 of the POCSO Act against
the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.

67. Ext-11 is the PM report. PW-11 MO of the case stated in his opinion
death is due to airway asphyxia sustained due to ante mortem drowning.
Autopsy report pointed probable cause of death of the victim child due to
airway asphyxia sustained due to ante mortem drowning.

68. PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9 and PW-15 and PW-16 IO of the case deposed
deceased victim child was found in the ditch in upside down position. Her head
was submerged under water. It is already coming to light that dead body of
the deceased victim child was recovered as led and shown by accused. It was
accused who had threw the child in the ditch. From the cross examination of
the PW-1 by defence it is coming out when PW-1 was asking accused about his
daughter, Bhagin of accused Gauri Shankar who was with accused Gauri
Shankar, told him that accused Gauri Shankar Nath threw his daughter in the
water. Allegation against accused is that when victim child was not found and
she was untraced, PW-1, PW-6, PW-15, PW-2 and other asked accused where
about of victim child (deceased child) and at that time nephew of accused who
was a toddler at that time told them that accused threw victim child in the
water. PW-9 deposed when villagers questioned accused, accused Bhagin
stated accused threw deceased in the water. Dead body of the deceased victim
was recovered from ditch which is water body. Her head submerged under
water with leg up. That it was accused threw the child in the water is crystal
clear from the evidence on record. It is also revealed from the testimonies of
the PWs accused threw the victim child in the ditch after committing rape
(penetrative sexual assault) on her. Accused threw the victim child in the ditch
with knowledge and intention that if he threw the 7 years old child in the water
after committing rape on her with injury on her head and other parts of the
body she will definitely die and there will be no chance and hope of her
survival and accused with intention and knowing fully that injured child will not
survive if he threw her in the water bodies, threw her in the ditch to cause her
death. Ditch is present at an isolated place where none visit except to perform
the last rites of deceased and therefore at this place if 7 years old injured child
is threw in the water, nobody will noticed and there is possibility of her death
58|Page

and no chance of survival and for that reason accused threw the child in the
ditch to let her died and the 7 years old child die as a result of airway asphyxia
sustained due to ante-mortem drowning.

69. Throwing of the child in the ditch with head submerged under the
water means and included it was done with intention to cause the death of the
child and to cause death of the child accused threw her in the water. The
evidence on record oral as well as medical report bring only one fact that this
is a case of culpable homicide amounting to murder and all the ingredients of
section 300 I.P.C is fairly established against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubt. There is nothing to doubt, disbelief the testimonies of the
PWs and the unshaken, incontrovertible, unquestionable, absolute testimonies
of the PWs relied and same is acted upon. It is further revealed from the
evidence on record that accused threw the child in the ditch to eliminate her
from disclosing the incident of rape committed by accused on her and he did
act of wiping out the evidence of crime committed by him only to screen
himself from getting legal punishment. The intention of the accused to wipe
out the evidence is clearly visible from his conduct that were noticed and come
up immediately after the incident of rape and prosecution fairly able to bring
home the charge of section 201 I.P.C against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt.

Discussion on Law points

70. Ext-1 is the ejahar. PW-1 is the informant of the case and he lodged
formal written ejahar on 30-04-18. Incident was took place on 29-04-18. PW-1
with the villager apprehended accused on 29-04-18 and handed over to police
on the same day. PW-16 is the IO of the case. He corroborated all these facts.
PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9 and PW-15 stated someone of their village informed
police about the incident of missing of Miss X. PW-16, IO of the case deposed
on 29-04-18 at about 8.30 PM one person named Kanoj Nath s/o Balendra
Nath of village Puran Lawpara verbally informed at Raniganj police outpost that
daughter of PW-1, Pradip Kumar Nath, Miss X is missing from their village from
6.30 PM near her house from the house of Lalit Kr Nath where marriage
function of daughter of Lalit Kr Nath was going on. PW-16 is the in-charge of
Raniganj Outpost and he after receiving this information entered same in the
general diary and proceeded to village Puran Lawpara. This is the information

about missing of the daughter of PW-1 and this is not the first information
59|Page

report as per section 154 Cr.P.C. and this information was given to police to
alert the police to find out the missing girl. It is revealed from the statement of
PW-16 that when he reached Puran Lawpara village, he got information about
apprehension of the accused Gauri Shankar and that accused was last seen
with the victim girl. The statement of PWs more specifically from the statement
of PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9, PW-15 and PW-16 the IO of the case it is revealed
that after apprehension of the accused, villager question accused about Miss X
and accused made statement that he took Miss X on his bicycle and committed
rape and then kill her and thereafter whole night of 29-04-18 all of them made
search for the dead body of Miss X but no clue was found. On next day of
incident early morning at about 4 to 4.05 AM accused disclosed that he threw
the Miss X in the ditch present near the Besimari Lutapara Samsan ghat and
accused took the police and PWs to the place where he threw the victim child
and her dead body was recovered. After recovery of the dead body, inquest of
the deceased was done at place of recovery, thereafter dead body was sent to
post mortem and thereafter after handing over the dead body to her parents,
her last rites was performed and all along the PW-1 the informant and father of
‘Miss X’ was present. The statement of PW-2, the mother of the deceased
victim child clearly pointed she was unstable mentally and physically after the
missing of her daughter. The evidence on record clearly and beautifully
explained the delay in filing the ejahar and in the instant case considering the
facts and circumstances of the case delay in filing the ejahar is not fatal for the
prosecution case. The evidence on records pointed father of the deceased child
with his village people were making search for the child in whole night and
thereafter father of the deceased child PW-1 was busy with the legal
formalities in view of the case and then he had to perform the last journey of
the departed child and this alone is the sufficient and reasonable cause for
delay in filing the ejahar considering the nature of the case.

ZL. The second point that I have taken up for discussion is whether verbal
information that PW-16 received from Kanoj Nath is the first information report
and to that my answer is in negative because it is just an information to the
police about the missing of the girl so that police set in motion to find out the
missing girl. The information does not give the foundation of the case and said
information is only to alert the police to avert any untoward incident and to

trace out the girl. When Kanoj informed the Raniganj police out post, nobody
60|Page

was aware of the incident of rape and murder of the girl and it was just taken
as missing incident and missing report was lodged by one of the villager and
no detail of the incident against the accused was made. Therefore, the ext-1 is
the formal first information report and ext-1 does not hit section 162 Cr.P.C.
and GD entry dated 29-04-18 about missing report is not the first information
report u/s 154 Cr.P.C

72. In Sidhartha Vashisht @ Manu Sharma vs State (Nct Of Delhi) (Jessica
Lal murder case) decided on 19 April, 2010 in para no. 37 Hon’ble Apex Court
held that "Znsofar as the decision in Bhagwant Kishore (supra), it was noted in
Para 8 at page 224 that the information received by the officer was not vague,
but contained precise particulars of the acts of misappropriation committed by
the accused and, therefore, the said information could be treated as FIR. On
the contrary, it is evident from the facts established on record in the present
case that none of the three telephonic messages received by police furnished
any detail about the offence or the accused. The judgment in Khwaja Nazir
Ahmad (supra) is also distinguishable as the law laid down in the said case
does not concern the issue involved in the present case. Cryptic telephonic
messages could not be treated as FIR as their object only is to get the police to
the scene of offence and not to register the FIR. The said intention can also be
clearly culled out from a bare reading of Section 154 of the Criminal Procedure
Code which states that the information, if given orally, should be reduced in
writing, read over to the informant, signed by the informant and a copy of the
same be given free of cost to the informant.”

73. In Yanob Sheikh alias Gagu vs. State of West Bengal, reported in
(2012) 6 SCC 428, It was observed by Honble Apex court that a First
Information Report normally should give the basic essential in relation to the
commission of a cognizable offence upon which the Investigation Officer can
immediately start his investigation in accordance with the provisions of Section
154 CrPC. It was further observed that cryptic telephonic message cannot be
treated as FIR as their objective is only to get the police to the scene of
offence and not to register the FIR. Information which gives no details would
not constitute First Information Report as contemplated under Section 154 of
the CrPC but there is an obligation on the part of the police officer to register
the information received by him in respect of commission of a cognizable

offence.
61| Page

74. After going through the aforesaid decision of the Hon’ble Apex Court
and taking into account the facts and circumstances of the case it goes to
show that information that was received by PW-16 on 29-04-18 at about 8.30
PM is only to alert the police about the missing of the girl and said information
was not detail. The information does not stated who had entice the girl. That
information was only cryptic information. When police took custody of the
accused and he opened the mouth on next day that led to the discovery of the
dead body of Miss X and accordingly PW-1 lodged ejahar against the accused
on 30-04-18 that give the gist of the incident. Therefore, ext-1 full fill the
principle of section 154 Cr.P.C. and ext-1 is the First Information Report.

75. Extra Judicial confession: It is now well established principle of law that
extra judicial confession is admissible if it inspired confidence and made
voluntarily. PW-5 to PW-9 and PW-15 are co-villager of the PW-1 the informant
of the case and accused and their testimonies is that accused Gauri Shankar
before them confessed that he took victim girl on his bicycle and then in their
presence and before police confessed his guilty of committing rape and murder
of the victim child after taking victim on his bicycle.

76. In Gura Singh Vs State of Rajasthan 2001 2 SCC 205 Hon'ble Apex
Court in para 6 at SCC P 212 observed “It is settled position of law that extra-
judicial confession, if true and voluntary, it can be relied upon by the court to
convict the accused for the commission of the crime alleged. Despite inherent
weakness of extra judicial confession as an item of evidence, it cannot be
ignored when shown that such confession was made before a person who has
no reason to state falsely and to whom it is made in the circumstances which
tend to support the statement”.

77. In the Gura Singh case, Hon’ble Apex Court discussed Maghar Singh Vs
State of Punjab AIR 1975 SC 1320 wherein held that the evidence in the form
of extra judicial confession made by the accused to witnesses cannot be always
termed to be tainted evidence. Corroboration of such evidence is required only
by way of abundant caution. If the court believe the witness before whom the
confession is made and is satisfied that the confession was true and voluntary
made, then the conviction can be founded on such evidence alone. Again in
the case of Narayan Singh Vs. State of M.P AIR 1985 SC 1678 Hon’ble Apex
Court made observation that “ this Court cautioned that it is not open to the

court trying the criminal case to start with presumption that extra judicial
62|Page

confession is always a weak type of evidence. It would depend on the nature
of the circumstances, the time when the confession is made and the credibility
of the witnesses who speak for such a confession. The retraction of extra-
judicial confession which is a usual phenomenon in criminal cases would by
itself not weaken the case of the prosecution based upon such a confession.”
78. Hon’ble Apex Court in Ram Lal Vs. State of Himachal Pradesh in
Criminal Appeal No. 576 of 2010 in para 13 held " Extra-judicial confession is a
weak piece of evidence and the court must ensure that the same inspires
confidence and is corroborated by other prosecution evidence. In order to
accept extra-judicial confession, it must be voluntary and must inspire
confidence. If the court is satisfied that the extra-judicial confession is
voluntary, it can be acted upon to base the conviction.” Hon'ble Apex Court in
para 14 and 15 again held "Z4. It /s well settled that conviction can be based
on a voluntarily confession but the rule of prudence requires that wherever
Possible it should be corroborated by independent evidence. Extra-judicial
confession of accused need not in all cases be corroborated.” "15......100+4 , If the
court is satisfied that if the confession is voluntary, the conviction can be based
upon the same. Rule of Prudence does not require that each and every
circumstance mentioned in the confession with regard to the participation of
the accused must be separately and independently corroborated.

79. In Gagan Kanojia & another vs State of Punjab, criminal appeal 561-62
of 2005 decided on 24-11-06 Hon’ble Apex Court held “Extra-judicial
confession, as is well-known, can form the basis of a conviction. By way of
abundant caution, however, the court may look for some corroboration. Extra-
judicial confession cannot ipso facto be termed to be tainted. An extra-judicial
confession, if made voluntarily and proved can be relied upon by the courts.
[See Sukhwant Singh @ Balwinder Singh v. State through CBI - AIR 2003 SC
3362].

80. Hon’ble Apex Court in Sahadevan & Anr Vs. State of T. Nadu, Cri.
Appeal No. 1405/2008 held, “ 17. While explaining the dimensions of the
principles governing the admissibility and evidentiary value of an extra-judicial
confession, this Court in the case of State of Rajasthan v. Raja Ram [(2003) 8
SCC 180] stated the principle that an extra-judicial confession, if voluntary and
true and made in a fit state of mind, can be relied upon by the court. The

confession will have to be proved like any other fact. The value of evidence as
63 | Page

to confession, like any other evidence, depends upon the veracity of the
witness to whom it has been made. The Court, further expressed the view that
such a confession can be relied upon and conviction can be founded thereon if
the evidence about the confession comes from the mouth of witnesses who
appear to be unbiased, not even remotely inimical to the accused and in
respect of whom nothing is brought out which may tend to indicate that he
may have a motive of attributing an untruthful statement to the accused.” “19.
Accepting the admissibility of the extra-judicial confession, the Court in the
case of Sansar Chand v. State of Rajasthan [(2010) 10 SCC 604] held that :-
“29. There is no absolute rule that an extra-judicial confession can never be
the basis of a conviction, although ordinarily an extra-judicial confession should
be corroborated by some other material. [Vide Thimma and Thimma Raju v.
State of Mysore, Mulk Raj v. State of U.P., Sivakumar v. State (SCC paras 40
and 41 : AIR paras 41 & 42), Shiva Karam Payaswami Tewari v. State of
Maharashtra and Mohd. Azad v. State of W.B.] 30. In the present case, the
extra-judicial confession by Balwan has been referred to in the judgments of
the learned Magistrate and the Special Judge, and it has been corroborated by
the other material on record. We are satisfied that the confession was
voluntary and was not the result of inducement, threat or promise as
contemplated by Section 24 of the Evidence Act, 1872.”

81. Again in para 21 and 22 of the Sahadevan & Anr Vs State of T.Nadu
case Hon'ble Apex Court held, “21 Extra judicial confession must be established
to be true and made voluntarily and in a fit state of mind. The words of the
witnesses must be clear, unambiguous and should clearly convey that the
accused is the perpetrator of the crime. The extra judicial confession can be
accepted and can be the basis of conviction, if passes the test of credibility.”
“22.Upon a proper analysis of the above-referred judgments of this Court, it
will be appropriate to state the principles which would make an extra- judicial
confession an admissible piece of evidence capable of forming the basis of
conviction of an accused. These precepts would guide the judicial mind while
dealing with the veracity of cases where the prosecution heavily relies upon an

extra-judicial confession alleged to have been made by the accused.

The Principles
64|Page

i) The extra-judicial confession is a weak evidence by itself. It has
to be examined by the court with greater care and caution.

ii) It should be made voluntarily and should be truthful.

iii) It should inspire confidence.

iv) An extra-judicial confession attains greater credibility and
evidentiary value, if it is supported by a chain of cogent
circumstances and is further corroborated by other prosecution
evidence.

v) For an extra-judicial confession to be the basis of conviction, it
should not suffer from any material discrepancies and inherent
improbabilities.

vi) Such statement essentially has to be proved like any other fact

and in accordance with law.”

82. It is further held in para 31 of this judgment (Sahadevan case) “31.
With the development of law, the theory of last seen has become a definite
tool in the hands of the prosecution to establish the guilt of the accused. This
concept is also accepted in various judgments of this Court. The Court has
taken the consistent view that where the only circumstantial evidence taken
resort to by the prosecution is that the accused and deceased were last seen
together, it may raise suspicion but it is not independently sufficient to lead to
a finding of guilt.

83. In the instant case, prosecution fairly able to bring on record several
circumstances against the accused of his involvement in the rape and murder
of the victim child. Last seen theory, extra judicial confessional statement of
the accused, medical repot, seizure of the dress of the accused and victim and
report of the FSL, accused admission in his 313 Cr.P.C all goes to show and
drawn only inference of his guilty and no fact of innocence is appearing. The
unequivocal circumstances only drawn the guilty of the accused.

84. Coupled with the aforesaid decision on the extra judicial confession it is
evident that settled position of law to rely upon the extra judicial confession is
that it must satisfied that it is voluntary and is not the result of inducement,
threat, or promise envisaged under section 24 of Evidence Act or was brought
about in suspicious circumstances to circumvent section 25 and section 26 of
the Evidence Act. Extra Judicial Confession if found not made under promise,

threat, inducement, and voluntary it can be acted upon without corroboration
65|Page

and corroboration is only required for safe application of the same to avoid any
conflict.

85. Upon scrutiny of the entire evidence on record, more particularly from
the testimonies of PW-5 to PW-9 and PW-15, who are neutral and independent
witnesses having no dispute with the accused or his family stated only one
aspect specifically, categorically, firmly in a lucid manner without any biasness
and honestly stated that during questioning of accused by them, PW-1 and
other villager, accused made statement before them that he had took victim
girl with him on his bicycle committed rape on her and killed her. During
vigorous lengthy cross examination of PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9, PW-15 there is no
trace of use of coercion, force, threat, inducement, promise made to accused
to extract confession from the accused by the villager. It is quite natural that
when one 7 year old child of the village was untraced and she was seen with
accused by the villager and accused return back to his home but child was not
with him, parents and villagers will indisputably questioned him about the girl
and on such question by the villagers accused Gauri Shankar Nath confessed
before them about taking of victim child with him, committed rape on her and
killed her and this confessional statement of the accused made before the
villager of the accused is without any threat, promise, force, coercion and it is
accused free and voluntary statement made before the villager. More so, cross
examination of the PWs exposed that accused made statement before them
that he took away victim child on his bicycle, committed rape on her and then
murder her and PWs made this very statement before the Ld. magistrate when
learned magistrate recorded their statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. There is nothing
comes out against the PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9 and PW-15 as to why they would
falsely implicate the accused in such a heinous gruesome brutal crime. PW-5 to
PW-9 and PW-15 are co-villagers of accused too. Under such circumstances
when they stated accused confessed his guilty before them, that too, without
any force, threat, promise, inducement, coercion the same pass the test of
section 24 of the Evidence Act and therefore the extra judicial confession of
the accused is reliable and this extra judicial confession of the accused made
before PW-5 to PW-9, PW-15 is admissible piece of evidence under the settled
position of law and can be acted upon safely. Accordingly coupled with the

aforesaid decision of the Hon’ble Apex Court, I find that in the case in hand
66|Page

extra judicial confession of accused can be safely acted upon accordingly same
is relied and acted upon and used against the accused.

86. Section 27 of the Evidence Act says- '27. How much of information
received from accused may be proved —Provided that, when any fact is
deposed to as discovered in consequence of information received from a
person accused of any offence, in the custody of a police officer, so much of
such information, whether it amounts to a confession or not, as relates
distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved.”

87. In Vasanta Sampat Dupane vs State of Maharastra ( 2015) 1 SCC 253 it
was held that recovery of the dead body of the deceased at the instance of the
accused would be a fact within the special knowledge of the accused, and
therefore, the said recovery including the recovery of cloth in said cap, were
admissible and are relevant evidence as per section 27 of Evidence Act.

88. Here in this case extra judicial confessional statement of the accused
led the discovery of the dead body of the victim child from ditch and same
satisfy the essential ingredients of section 27 of the Evidence Act. Thus, it is
applicable.

89. In Anil @ Raju Namdev Patil vs Administration Of Daman & Diu and anr
(2006) 13 SCC 36, Hon'ble Apex Court held “23. The information disclosed by
the evidences leading to the discovery of a fact which is based on mental state
of affair of the accused is, thus, admissible in evidence.”

90. In Himachal Pradesh Vs. Jeet Singh (1999) 4 SCC 370 opined that when
an object is discovered from an isolated place pointed out by the accused, the
same would be admissible in evidence.

91. In Prakash chand Vs State (Delhi Administration) (1979) 3 SCC, Hon’ble
Apex court refer decision of HP Admn Vs Omprakash (1972) 1 SCC, 249 and
held “There is a clear distinction between the conduct of a person against
whom an offence is alleged, which is admissible u/s 8 of the Evidence Act, if
such conduct is influenced by any fact in issue or relevant fact and the
statement made to a police officer in the course of an investigation which is hit
by sec 162 Cr.P.C. what is excluded by sec 162 Cr.P.C is the statement made
to a police officer in course of investigation and not the evidence relating to
the conduct of an accused person (not amounting to a statement) when
confronted or questioned by a police officer during the course of an

investigation. For example, the evidence of the circumstances, simplicitier, that
67|Page

an accused person led a police officer and pointed out the place where stolen
articles or weapon which might have been used in the commission of the
offence were found hidden, would be admissible as conduct u/s 8 of the
Evidence Act, irrespective of whether any statement by the accused
contemporaneously with or antecedent to such conduct falls within the purview
of section 27 of Evidence Act”. Decision of the Privy council in ‘Pulukuri Kottaya
& ors Vs Emperor, AIR 1947 PC 67 is the most authority for supporting the
interpretation that the “fact discovered” envisaged in the section embraces the
place from which the object was produced the knowledge of the accused to it,
but the information given must relate distinctly to that effect. But if a relevant
fact is discovered in consequences of such information, it furnishes assurance
regarding the truth of such information’. In Umesh Karmakar & ANR Vs State
of Assam, 2005 (1) GLT, 358, “Accused person led police to the bamboo
groove for discovery and seizure of the weapon of assault and discovery of fact
u/s 27 of Evidence Act.”

92. In the case in hand the statement of the accused led discovery of the
dead body of the victim child and this fact was within the special knowledge of
the accused Gauri Shankar Nath and except he no other villager has knowledge
of the same. The villager made search of the girl from the evening till whole
night but no clue found and her dead body was recovered when accused took
police and villager to the place where he threw the girl and only then the dead
body of the victim girl was recovered from the ditch near Samsan ghat and
presence of the dead body of the girl in the ditch near the graveyard are within
the knowledge of the accused and except accused it was not known to any
other person and only denial of the accused that he did not took police to the
place of recovery has no relevancy and same does not offer any explanation.
Accused statement in his 313 Cr.P.C made it copiously, clearly that dead body
of the victim girl was recovered as per his statement and this is the most vital
and important fact in issue of the case in hand that prosecution fairly able to
prove against the accused. Therefore the last seen theory, together with the
extra judicial confession of the accused with the leading to discovery of the
dead body and accused admission in his sec 313 Cr.P.C about the position of
the dead body of the deceased at the time of recovery of the dead body,
recovery of the dead body in the ditch near graveyard of Besimari village

(Lutapara), pulling out the body by PW-5 Gajen, accused knowledge of dress
68|Page

of the deceased girl at the time of recovery, inquest of the dead body of the
deceased at place of recovery, taking of the photograph of the deceased girl in
the position when body was recovered in the ditch and then taking of another
photograph when dead body was place on ground after pulling out from the
ditch show the conduct of the accused which are relevant fact in issue of the
case and accused conduct clearly pointed that it was accused Gauri Shankar
Nath who after committing rape threw the girl in the ditch to kill her and there
is complete uninterrupted chain of circumstances appearing against the
accused that draws only inference of accused guilty and no innocence.

93. It has been stated by all the PWs that dead body of deceased victim
child was recovered from a ditch near Samsan ghat. Accused Gauri Shankar
Nath in his 313 Cr.P.C statement admitted that dead body of deceased victim
was recovered from a ditch near Samsan ghat and her dead body was flowing
in the ditch upside down (face, head submerged under water). Statement of
PWs unquestionably establish that dead body of deceased victim recovered as
shown by accused from ditch near the Samsan ghat. The theory of leading to
discovery is fairly coming out against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt
and it has connected all the chain of circumstances from the last seen to
missing to recovery of the dead body of the child and circumstances of the
case coming out against the accused form one complete chain of
circumstances.

94. Hon’ble Apex court in the Navaneetthakrishnan Vs. State of Inspector of
Police Criminal Appeal No. 1134/13 in para 23 made observation that “The law
is well settled that each and every incriminating circumstance must be clearly
established by reliable and clinching evidence and the circumstances so proved
must form a chain of events from which the only irresistible conclusion about
the guilt of the accused can be safely drawn and no other hypothesis against
the guilt is possible. In a case depending largely upon circumstantial evidence,
there is always a danger that conjecture or suspicion may take the place of
legal proof. The court must satisfy itself that various circumstances in the chain
of events must be such as to rule out a reasonable likelihood of the innocence
of the accused. When the important link goes, the chain of circumstances gets
snapped and the other circumstances cannot, in any manner, establish the
guilt of the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. The court has to be watchful
and avoid the danger of allowing the suspicion to take the place of legal proof
69|Page

for sometimes, unconsciously it may happen to be a short step between moral
certainty and legal proof. There is a long mental distance between “may be
true” and “must be true” and the same divides conjectures from sure
conclusions. The Court in mindful of caution by the settled principles of law
and the decisions rendered by this Court that in a given case like this, where
the prosecution rests on the circumstantial evidence, the prosecution must
place and prove all the necessary circumstances, which would constitute a
complete chain without a snap and pointing to the hypothesis that except the
accused, no one had committed the offence”.

95. In Sucha Singh Vs. State of Punjab (2001) 4 SCC 375 held “in para 19
we pointed out that section 100 of Evidence Act is not intended to relieve the
prosecution of its burden to prove the guilty of the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt, but the section would apply to cases where the prosecution
has succeeded in proving facts for which a reasonable inference can be drawn
regarding the existence of certain other facts, unless the accused by virtue of
special knowledge regarding such facts failed to offer any explanation which
might drive the court to draw a different inferences.”

96. Hon'ble Apex Court in Satpal Vs. State of Haryana in Cri. Appeal No.
1892 of 2017 in para no. 6 held that ™...... There is no eye witness to the
occurrence but only circumstances coupled with the fact of the deceased
having been last seen with the appellant. Criminal Jurisprudence and the
plethora of judicial precedents leave little room for reconsideration of
the basic principles for invocation of the last seen theory as a facet of
circumstantial evidence. Succinctly stated, it may be a weak kind of evidence
by itself to found conviction upon the same singularly. But when it is coupled
with other circumstances such as the time when the deceased was last seen
with the accused, and the recovery of the corpse being in very close proximity
of time, the accused owes an explanation under Section 106 of the
Evidence Act with regard to the circumstances under which death may
have taken place. If the accused offers no explanation, or furnishes a wrong
explanation, absconds, motive is established, and there is
corroborative evidence available inter alia in the form of recovery or otherwise
forming a chain of circumstances leading to the only inference for guilt of the
accused, incompatible with any possible hypothesis of innocence, conviction

can be based on the same. If there be any doubt or break in the link of chain
70|Page

of circumstances, the benefit of doubt must go to the accused. Each case will
therefore have to be examined on its own facts for invocation of the doctrine.
97. In Gagan Kanojia & Anr Vs. State of Punjab, Criminal Appeal no. 561-62
of 2005 Hon’ble Apex Court held “The prosecution case is based on
circumstantial evidence. Indisputably, charges can be proved on the basis of
the circumstantial evidence, when direct evidence is not available. It is well-
settled that in a case based on a circumstantial evidence, the prosecution must
prove that within all human probabilities, the act must have been done by the
accused. It is, however, necessary for the courts to remember that there is a
long gap between 'may be true’ and 'must be true’. Prosecution case is
required to be covered by leading cogent, believable and credible evidence.
Whereas the court must raise a presumption that the accused is innocent and
in the event two views are possible, one indicating to his guilt of the accused
and the other to his innocence, the defence available to the accused should be
accepted, but at the same time, the court must not reject the evidence of the
prosecution, proceeding on the basis that they are false, not trustworthy,
unreliable and made on flimsy grounds or only on the basis of surmises and
conjectures. The prosecution case, thus, must be judged in its entirety having
regard to the totality of the circumstances. The approach of the court should
be an integrated one and not truncated or isolated. The court should use the
yardstick of probability and appreciate the intrinsic value of the evidence
brought on records and analyze and assess the same objectively.

We would proceed on the well-known principles in regard to
appreciation of the circumstantial evidence which were noticed by the High

Court in the following terms :

"1) There must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any
reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the
accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the
act must have been done by the accused.

2) Circumstantial evidence can be reasonably made the basis of an accused
person's conviction if it is of such character that it is wholly inconsistent with

the innocence of the accused and is consistent only with his guilt.
71|[ Page

3) There should be no missing links but it is not that every one of the links
must appear on the surface of the evidence, since some of these links may
only be inferred from the proven facts.
4) On the availability of two inferences, the one in favour of the accused must
be accepted.
5) It cannot be said that prosecution must meet any and every hypothesis put
forwarded by the accused however far-fetched and fanciful it might be. Nor
does it mean that prosecution evidence must be rejected on the slightest doubt
because the law permits rejection if the doubt is reasonable and not
otherwise."
98. In Bodh Raj @ Bohda & ors Vs State of Jammu & Kashmir, (2002) 8
SCC it is held that circumstantial evidence can be a sole basis for conviction
provided the condition as stated below satisfied. Conditions are:-
(1) The circumstances from which guilt is established must be fully proved;
(2) That all the facts must be consistent with the hypothesis of the guilt of
the accused;
(3) That all the circumstances must be of a conclusive nature and
tendency;
(4) That the circumstances should, to a moral certainly, actual excludes
every hypothesis except one proposed to be proved.
99. It was again observed in Bodh Raj @ Bohda & ors Vs State of Jammu &
Kashmir, (2002) 8 SCC “It has been consistently laid down by this court that
where a case rests squarely on circumstantial evidence, the intervene of guilt
can be justified only when all the incriminating facts and circumstances are
found to be incompatible with the innocence of the accused or the guilt of any
other person”. “ The circumstances from which an intervene as to the guilt of
the accused is drawn have to be proved beyond reasonable doubt and have to
be shown to be closely connected with the principal fact sought to be
informed from those circumstances”.
100. ‘In Krishnan Vs State (2008) 15 SCC 430 Hon’ble Apex court observe;

‘The circumstances from which an inference of guilty is sought to be
drawn must be cogently and firmly established;
Those circumstances should be of definite tendency unerringly pointing

towards guilt of the accused;
72|Page

The circumstances, taken cumulatively, should form a chain so complete
that there is no escape from the conclusion that with all human
probability the crime was committed by the accused and none else; and

The circumstantial evidence in order to sustain conviction must be
complete and in capable of explanation of any other hypothesis then that
of the guilty of the accused and such evidence should not only be
consistent with the guilty of the accused but should be inconsistent with

his innocence.”

101. Going through the aforesaid decision of the Hon’ble Apex Court it is
now crystal clear that when prosecution case is hinged on circumstantial
evidence prosecution must prove every link of the chain of circumstance and it
must be one complete chain of circumstances and circumstances must bring on
record only guilty of the accused and no inference of his innocence and the
circumstances only connect it to a conclusion of fact which proves only guilty
of the accused and there must be a complete chain of circumstances and there
should not be any dent, snapping, dislocation of the chain of circumstances.

102. Coupled with the aforesaid decision and upon meticulous scrutiny of the
evidence on record it is appearing that that there is no dent in the prosecution
case. All the PWs before the police, before learned magistrate and before court
make one single consistent statement that accused made statement before
them that he had taken the victim child with him and he rape her and threw
her in the ditch and it was his statement that led the discovery of the dead
body of the victim child from the ditch. The victim child was playing in the field
and she was last seen by her parents at the school field. Accused was present
in the said school field and this fact was noticed by the father of the deceased
child. Victim child was taken by accused on his bicycle and this was noticed by
the PWs. Accused returned but victim was not found. Accused made attempt to
flee away from the place of occurrence. He was apprehended by the villager
and before police he confessed that he had committed rape and killed the
victim. It was accused who led police and villager to the Besimari samsan ghat
and show the ditch where he threw the child and dead body of the child was
recovered. Autopsy report and inquest report revealed commission of rape on
the victim and injury found on her anus and vagina shown commission of rape
(sexual assault) on her. The jeans pant of the accused and dress last wore by

the deceased child found with deceased was seized by the IO of the case and
73 [Page

sent to FSL for chemical examination and jeans pant of accused, panty of the
deceased child gave positive test of presence of human semen. Cycle that was
seized by the police pointed that this cycle was taken and ride by accused on
the day of incident as per statement of the PW14, the uncle of the accused. All
the facts that were brought by the prosecution against the accused were
established by the prosecution against the accused and all the circumstances
that prosecution bring form one complete chain of circumstances and there is
no inference of innocence of the accused and only guilty of the accused is
coming and prosecution fairly able to bring home the guilty of the accused.
103. Hon'ble Apex Court in Nagesh Vs. State of Karnataka in Criminal Appeal
No. 671 of 2005 in para 13 held, “It is neither possible nor prudent to state a
straight-jacket formula or principle which would apply to all cases without
variance. Every case has to be appreciated on its own facts and in light of the
evidence led by the parties. It is for the Court to examine the cumulative effect
of the evidence in order to determine whether the prosecution has been able
to establish its case beyond reasonable doubt or that the accused is entitled to
the benefit of doubt.”

104. Thus, the circumstances appearing from the evidence on record
against the accused are that:- PW-1, informant is that accused was seen at the
Lawpara school field where victim child was playing; PW-3, PW-4 and PW-6
seen victim girl with the accused on the bicycle of accused and accused's
nephew was also present; Accused return with his nephew on the same
bicycle; On questioning of accused by PW-1, accused gave answer that he
drop her at her home; thereafter accused tried to fled away from his village;
PW-1, PW-6 with Dharmendra apprehend the accused; accused made
statement before the PWs and villager that he had committed rape on victim
and threw her in ditch; accused on early next morning when in police custody
took police to the samsan ghat and show the ditch where he threw the child
and dead body of the child was recovered as per statement of accused at
accused instance; police seized jeans pant of the accused that was dressed by
accused on the day of incident and panty and other dress of the deceased child
found with the dead body; inquest report pointed commission of rape of the
child; Autopsy report of the deceased child confirm the inquest report of the
deceased child; FSL report revealed and gave positive test of presence of

semen in the jeans pant of accused and panty of the deceased child and
74|Page

presence of human blood in the frock of the deceased child; death of the child
is due to asphyxia as a result of drowning. The IO of the case seized dress of
accused and deceased after recovery of the dead body of the child and sent to
FSL for chemical examination. All the facts when read together give only one
point that accused Gauri Shankar Nath after taking the child on his bicycle from
the school filed took her to isolated place of Besimari Samsan ghat and
committed forceful sexual intercourse with the 7 years victim child and then
threw her in the ditch to die her to eliminate her from disclosing the incident of
crime committed by accused and return to his village with his nephew to give
impression as if nothing is happened but when he was spotted by the villager
without the victim child villager questioned him not finding the victim girl, he
gave inappropriate reply and then tried to run away from the villager to hide
out to screen himself from getting legal punishment but he was apprehended,
handed over to police and during questioning from his disclosure statement
dead body of the victim child was recovered. Thus, from the point of last seen
to missing of the girl with the recovery of the dead body on the statement of
accused draws only hypothesis of accused guilty and no inference of his
innocence and there is complete chain of circumstances coming out against the
accused Gauri Shankar Nath that proves his only guilty and nothing comes in
his favour.

105. — Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012 in short section 3
of the POCSO Act define what is penetrative sexual assault.

Section 3 of POCSO Act is quoted herein below.

“3.Penetrative sexual assault.-
A person is said to commit "penetrative sexual assault" if-

a. he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth,
urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any
other person; or

b. he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being
the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the
child to do so with him or any other person; or

c. he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the
child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

d. he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the child or
makes the child to do so to such person or any other person.”
75|Page

106. Section 5 of the POCSO Act says the condition when penetrative sexual
assault on child is aggravated and section 5(m) defines who ever commits
penetrative sexual assault on a child below (12) years is said to commit an
offence punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act. Section 375 IPC defines rape and
section 376 IPC is the penal provision of rape and after recent amendment in
2018 section 376-AB inserted. Section 376-AB is the penal provision to an
offender committing rape on a child below 12 years. The amended criminal Act
comes into force from the month of April 2018 and instant incident was took
place on 29-04-18.

107. Section 375 IPC. Offence of rape is defined in section 375 I.P.C. An
accused is said to be committed rape if accused committed one or more of the
following acts:

i. Penetrates his penis, to any extent, into vagina, mouth, urethra
or anus of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any
other person; or

ii. Inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not
being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of a
woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person; or

iii. Manipulates any part of the body of woman so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of
such woman or makes her to do so with him or any other
person; or

iv. Applies his mouth to the vagina, anus, urethra of a woman or
makes her to do so with him or any other person.

Accused did the said act falling under any of the following seven
descriptions

Firstly - Against her will.

Secondly -Without her consent.

Thirdly - With her consent, when her consent has been obtained by

putting her or any person in whom she is interested in fear of death or of
hurt.
76|Page

Fourthly- With her consent, when the man knows that he is not her
husband, and that her consent is given because she believes that he is
another man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully married.

Fifthly - With her consent, when, at the time of giving such consent,
by reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication or the administration by
him personally or through another of any stupefying or unwholesome
substance, she is unable to understand the nature and consequences of
that to which she gives consent.

Sixthly - With or without her consent, when she is under sixteen years
of age.

Seventhly- when she is unable to communicate consent.

Therefore prosecution must bring the essential ingredient as defined in

section 375 I.P.C. to attract penal provision of section 376 I.P.C.

108. Cumulative reading of the ingredients of section 3 and 5 of POCSO Act
and section 375 and 376-AB I.P.C gives one and same meaning and that is
sexual assault , sexual intercourse (rape) by a man on a girl below 12 years of
age is punishable u/s 6 and 376-AB I.P.C.

109. The evidence on record revealed deceased victim child was only 7
years old at the time of incident and she is below 12 years of age and ‘Miss X’
was below 12 years of age at the time of incident is an admitted fact. The
scanning of the entire evidence on record brings only one fact and that is, it is
the accused who took 7 years old daughter of the PW-1 on his bicycle with
only intention to commit the offence in a cold blooded manner his sinister
conduct bring only his guilty and nothing else coming in his favour.

110. Section 29 of POCSO Act says “Presumption as to certain offences.-
where a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to
commit any offence under sections 3, 5, 7 and section 9 of this Act, the Special
Court shall presume, that such person has committed or abetted or attempted
to commit the offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is proved”
Section 29 of the POSCO Act draws presumption that if sexual assault is
alleged by a minor unless it is rebutted by the accused it is presumed that
accused had committed sexual assault on the minor as alleged. When
allegation of sexual assault on a minor is alleged, accused has to prove his
innocence and this is the special legislation where accused has to prove his

innocence. In the case in hand evidence on record clearly pointed that accused
77 [Page

Gauri Shankar Nath committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault (rape)
on 7 years child (deceased victim) after taking her in an isolated area and after
committing the offence of rape he threw her in the ditch to eliminate her from
disclosing the crime committed by him. The unimpeached, unshaken evidence
of PWs more specifically evidence of PW-1, PW5 to PW-9, PW-15 and PW11,
inquest officer, PW-12 MO and PW-16 the IO of the case only drawn the
inference of accused guilty of commission of rape/ aggravated penetrative
sexual assault and murder of the 7 years old deceased child Miss X.
Conclusion

111. On scanning of the entire evidence on record, both oral as well as
documentary evidence and upon perusal of the statement of the accused
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C and material on record produces following scenario of
the case in hand;

I. Incident was took place on 29-04-18 during evening time;

II. On the date of incident there was marriage function in the house of
paternal uncle of accused Gauri Shankar Nath i.e daughter of PW-13
and PW-14;

III. Accused is the adjacent neighbour of informant and co-villager of
PW-3 to PW-9 and PW-15;

IV. Lawpara LP school is present near the house of accused, informant
and PW-13 and PW-14 and school having one play ground;

V. PW-1 his wife PW-2, their victim daughter (deceased), accused and
other villagers came to the marriage house and PW-1 worked as
cook in the marriage house;

VI. From the marriage house deceased victim child went to play in the
Lawpara LP school;

VII. When victim child was playing in the Lawpara LP school field accused
was present in the field;

VIII. On the date of incident accused took bicycle belonging to PW-14
from their house, that was subsequently seized by police from the
house of PW-14 on being produced by PW-13 paternal aunt ( jethai)
of accused Gauri Shankar Nath;

IX. Victim child was missing ( untraceable) from the school field from
evening of 29-04-18;
78|Page

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

XVII.

XVIII.

XIX.

PW-3, PW-4, PW-6 when coming to their respective house from their
visiting place, they have seen deceased victim child with accused on
accused’s bicycle with accused nephew and PW-4 seen accused
Gauri Shankar Nath taking away deceased victim child on his cycle
from the house of PW-14 Lalit Nath where one of the marriage
function was going on;

PW-2, PW-5, PW-7, PW-9, PW-15 heard from the visitors of marriage
house and villagers where PW-4 was also present that accused Gauri
Shankar taken away deceased victim child, daughter of PW-1 and
PW-2 on his bicycle with accused’s toddler nephew;

Accused Gauri Shankar Nath returned to his village on his said
bicycle with his nephew and spotted by PW-1, PW-2 and other
villagers but daughter of PW-1 and PW-2 ( deceased victim) was not
with accused;

All the PWs including PW-13 stated about missing of deceased victim
child from the evening of 29-04-18;

On being spotted accused with his nephew on the bicycle ( later on
seized by police), accused was questioned about victim child and
gave contradictory reply- he dropped victim child at her home, did
not take her, and he will too find out her;

At the time of questioning of accused about victim child( deceased)
when he was returning home with his nephew, his nephew told

accused threw victim child in the water;

. After dropping nephew of accused at his home by accused, accused

try to leave the village and proceeded towards Bilasipara town from
his village Lawpara;

PW-1, PW-6 got information from another villager Dharmendra (
nickname) that accused is about to leave the village;

PW-1, PW-6, Dharmendra immediately made search for accused,
noticed him and at that time accused seeing them entered into the
compound of one Naba Nath but did not come out and on enquiry by
PW-1, from the wife of Naba Nath, it is learn that accused did not
enter into her house;

Accused made attempt to flee away from the village seeing PW-1,

PW-6 are following him;
79|Page

XX.

XXI.

XXII.

XXIII.

XXIV.

XXVI.

XXVII.

XXVIII.

XXIX.

PW-1, PW-6 and Dharmendra on their motorcycle chased accused
Gauri Shankar Nath and intercepted him at Halong Bazar and held
him and bring back to village Lawpara;

Accused was interrogated by village people, PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9,
PW-15;

During grilling by PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9, PW-15 and other villagers,
accused made statement before them he took away victim child,
rape her and killed her and this is more particularly revealed from
the cross examination of PWs;

Police was informed by some villager about the missing of the 7
years old victim child when accused was brought to village and
questioned by village people and accused made statement that he
killed victim child after committing rape on her;

Police arrived at village Lawpara and villagers handed over accused
to police;

Accused was taken in custody of police and Sapatgram police station
deployed one section of police at village to conduct search and for
tracing out victim child;

During interrogation by the police, accused made statement before
the police where about of the dead body of the deceased victim
child;

From the disclosure statement made by the accused in the early
morning at about 04.00 to 04.30 am of 30-04-18, led by accused,
dead body of the victim child was recovered from one ditch present
near Lutapara Besimari Samsan ghat which is near Kachua river in
presence of PW-1, PW-5 to PW-9, PW-15, PW-16 IO of the case and
other superior police official and villagers of Lawpara village;

Dead body was found upside down (head submerged) under water,
frock of the deceased lifted above her chest, panty was pulled down
below her knee, forehead injury, blood spot on private parts and
anal region. Blood spot on her dress (frock and top) presence of
sperm in her panty;

Police taken photograph of the dead body of the deceased victim
child at the time of spotting on showing by accused and after she
was bring on ground by PW-5 on being commanded by police;
80| Page

XXX.

XXXI.

XXXII.

XXXIII.

XXXIV.

XXXV.

XXXVI.

XXXVIT.

XXXVIII.

XXXIX.

PW-12 conducted inquest on the dead body, found injury mark on
the private part of the deceased victim child;

Ext-11 autopsy report pointed injury on vaginal introitus, hymen
tear, anal mucosal tear on posterior part with abrasion on left eye
lid, laceration mid scalp and private parts injury around vagina and
anal region is due to forceful insertion of hard object, probably erect
penis;

I/O of the case seized frock, top and panty of the deceased victim
child and blue jeans pant of the accused and sent to FSL for
chemical examination;

Accused admitted seizure of his blue colour jeans long pant that was
worn by him on the date of incident;

Accused admitted seizure of panty, frock top of the deceased girl
and seizure of the dead body at the place of recovery;

10 of the case send seized dress of the accused and wearing apparel
of the deceased to FSL for examination;

Chemical examination report and serological report revealed and
gave positive test of presence of semen in the blue coloured jean
pant and green coloured panty and positive test of presence of
human blood on the frock and top;

Green colour panty was wear by deceased victim child on the day of
incident at the time of incident and police seized it from the dead
body after recovery in presence of witnesses and sent to FSL for
examination as spotted with suspected semen. Blue colour jeans
pant was seized from accused by PW-16 I/O of the case that was
worn by accused on the date of incident at the time of incident in
presence of witnesses and I/O sent the same to FSL for examination;
Accused recovery of the dead body in a ditch near Lutapara Besimari
village graveyard which is about 1 %2 Km away from his village and
pulling up of the dead body from the ditch by PW-5 Gajen after
recovery aS commanded by police and dead body was found in
upside down position;

Accused admitted he read upto class VII at Bholanath ME School,

Puran Lawpara;
81| Page

XL. Accused stated at the time of incident deceased victim child was
about 09-10 years which means below 12 years;

XLI. Accused admitted presence of injuries on the dead body of deceased
victim child ;

XLII. Accused admitted Magistrate conducting inquest on the dead body of
the deceased child at the place of recovery of the dead body of the
child;

XLIII. Accused admitted taking of photograph of deceased victim child at
the place of recovery (M. Ext-2 and M. Ext-3) when shown to him at
the place of recovery of the dead body from the ditch;

XLIV. Accused admitted that PW-1, PW-6 called him, stopped at Halong
Bazar and bring back him to the village Lawpara and at that time he

was proceeding to Bilasipara town and they grilled him;

112. Upon scrutiny of the entire evidence on record and when the settled
principle of circumstantial evidence is applied and after going through the
provision of section 375 I.P.C, 376-ABIPC, 300 I.P.C, section 3 and 5(m) of the
POCSO Act I find that prosecution without any snaps, dent bring book all the
incriminating circumstances against the accused Gauri Shankar Nath and that
from only one complete chain of circumstances that draws only inference that
accused Gauri Shankar Nath after committing rape of 7 years victim girl threw
her body in the ditch to eliminate her from disclosing the incident and cause
her death intentionally and it is he had committed rape with murder of the 7
years old daughter of the PW-1 on 29-04-18 and I hold him guilty u/s 376-
AB/302/201 r.w section 6 of the POCSO Act and accordingly accused Gauri
Shankar Nath is convicted u/s 376-AB/302/201 of I.P.C and section 6 of the
POCSO Act.

113. The series of offence committed by the accused and the heinous nature
of the offence and manner of commission of the offence does not entitle the
benefit of section 360 Cr.P.C and benefit of Probation of Offender Act in
accused favour. Accordingly I have heard accused and his learned counsel and

Ld. Special PP for the state on the point of sentence.
82| Page

Hearing on Sentence
114. I have heard accused and his counsel and Ld. Special P.P on the point
of sentence. Accused pleaded mercy and his sentence is written in a separate
sheet enclosed with the case record.
115. Ld. Special P.P submitted deceased victim child was 7 years old, there
was no provocation, victim child was defenseless, victim was unarmed and she
did not get chance to safe her, this is a cold blooded murder, accused to
eliminate the victim murder the defenseless child, accused to full fill his carnal
lust committed rape on the girl in presence of another toddler of less than
three years of age and this is the first of its nature case took place at Bilasipara
subdivision and is the rarest of rare case and prays for highest punishment of
the accused.
116. Learned defence counsel submitted accused is young and no past
history of crime brought against the accused hence, prays for leniency.
117. I have taken into consideration the respective submission of both the
learned counsel and after through scrutiny of the record I find following
aggravating and mitigating facts that are placed by the learned counsel for
both sides and coming out from the evidence and material on record.
118. Now, let me scanned both the facts to find out which side is heavier in
terms of the principle of law settled by Hon'ble Apex court in Bachan Singh vs
State of Punjab, (citation AIR 1980 SC 898) and Machhi singh vs state of
Rajasthan (1983 (3) SCC 470, AIR 1983 SC 957). In the constitution bench of
the Hon’ble Apex Court in Bachan singh case held that the sentence of death
ought to be given only in the ‘rarest of rare cases’ and death sentence be given
only when the option of awarding the sentence of life imprisonment is
‘unquestionably foreclosed’. In Machhi Singh Case Hon'ble Apex Court settled
guidelines while determining the ‘rarest of rare cases’.
119. Life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence is exception. It was
held by the Hon’ble Apex court in a catena of decision that death sentence be
imposed only when life imprisonment appear to be an altogether inadequate
punishment having regard to the relevant circumstances of the crime and
when the sentence of imprisonment for life cannot be conscientiously exercised
having regard to all relevant circumstances.

120. Hon’ble Supreme Court Guidelines in Bachan Singh
83 | Page

i. The extreme penalty of death need not be _ inflicted
except in gravest cases of extreme culpability;

ii. Before opting for the death penalty the circumstances of the
‘offender’ also require to be taken into consideration along with
the circumstances of the 'crime';

iii. Life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence is an
exception. In other words death sentence must be imposed
only when life imprisonment appears to be an altogether
inadequate punishment having regard to the relevant
circumstances of the crime, and only provided, the option to
impose sentence of imprisonment for life cannot be
conscientiously exercised having regard to the nature and
circumstances of the crime and all the relevant circumstances;

A balance-sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances has to be drawn
up and in doing so the mitigating circumstances have to be accorded full
weightage and a just balance has to be struck between the aggravating
and the mitigating circumstances before the option is exercised.

121. Hon’ble Supreme Court Guidelines in Machhi Singh case (supra) —
Factors to be considered while determining the “rarest of rare” case

I Manner of Commission of murder

33. When the murder is committed in an extremely brutal, grotesque,
diabolical. revolting, or dastardly manner so as to arouse intense and extreme

indignation of the community. For instance,

(i) When the house of the victim is set aflame with the end in
view to roast him alive in the house.
(ii) When the victim is subjected to inhuman acts of torture or
cruelty in order to bring about his or her death.
(iii)When the body of the victim is cut into pieces or his body is
dismembered in a fiendish manner.
II Motive for commission of murder
34. When the murder is committed for a motive which evince total depravity
and meanness. For instance when (a) a hired assassin commits murder for the
sake of money or reward (2) a cold blooded murder is committed with a

deliberate design in order to inherit property or to gain control over property of
84| Page

a ward or a person under the control of the murderer or vis-a-vis whom the
murderer is in a dominating position or in a position of trust. (c) a murder is

committed in the course for betrayal of the motherland.

III Anti-social or socially abhorrent nature of the crime

(a) When murder of a Scheduled Caste or minority community etc., is
committed not for personal reasons but in circumstances which arouse
social wrath. For instance when such a crime is committed in order to
terrorize such persons and frighten them into fleeing from a place or in
order to deprive them of, or make them with a view to reverse past
injustices and in order to restore the social balance.

(b) In cases of 'bride burning' and what are known as ‘dowry deaths' or
when murder is committed in order to remarry for the sake of
extracting dowry once again or to marry another woman on account of

infatuation.
IV Magnitude of crime

35. When the crime is enormous in proportion. For instance when multiple
murders say of all or almost all the members of a family or a large number of

persons of a particular caste, community, or locality, are committed.
V Personality of victim or murder

36. When the victim of murder is (a) an innocent child who could not have or
has not provided even an excuse, much less a provocation, for murder. (b) a
helpless woman or a person rendered helpless by old age or infirmity (c) when
the victim is a person vis-a vis whom the murderer is in a position of
domination or trust (d) when the victim is a public figure generally loved and
respected by the community for the services rendered by him and the murder
is committed for political or similar reasons other than personal reasons.

“It is further observed that ‘in this background the guidelines indicated in
Bachan Singh case (supra) will have to be culled out and applied to the facts of
each individual case where question of imposing of death sentences arises’. ‘In
order to apply these guidelines inter alia the following questions may be asked
and answered: a) Is there something uncommon about the crime such which

renders sentence of imprisonment for life inadequate and calls for a death
85| Page

sentence? (b) Are the circumstances of the crime such that there is no
alternative but to impose death sentence even after according maximum
weightage to the mitigating circumstances which speak in favour of the
offender’ ‘ If upon taking an overall global view of all the circumstances in the
light of the aforesaid proposition and taking into account the answers to the
posed here in above, the circumstances of the case are such that death
sentences is warranted, the court would proceed to do so”.

122. In Machhi Singh (supra), a three-Judge Bench has explained the
concept of ‘rarest of the rare cases’ by observing thus:

“The reasons why the community as a whole does not endorse the humanistic
approach reflected in ‘death sentence-in-no-case’ doctrine are not far to seek.
In the first place, the very humanistic edifice is constructed on the foundation
of ‘reverence for life’ principle. When a member of the community violates this
very principle by killing another member, the society may not feel itself bound
by the shackles of this doctrine. Secondly, it has to be realised that every
member of the community is able to live with safety without his or her own life
being endangered because of the protective arm of the community and on
account of the rule of law enforced by it. The very existence of the rule of law
and the fear of being brought to book operates as a deterrent for those who
have no scruples in killing others if it suits their ends. Every member of the
community owes a debt to the community for this protection”

123. Hon'ble Apex court in Dhananjay Chatterjee Alias Dhana Vs State of
W.B (1994) 2 SCC 220 in para 14 and 15 held, “14. In recent years, the rising
crime rate-particularly violent crime against women has made the criminal
sentencing by the courts a subject of concern. Today there are admitted
disparities. Some criminals get very harsh sentences while many receive
grossly different sentence for an essentially equivalent crime and a shockingly
large number even go unpunished, thereby encouraging the criminal and in the
ultimate making justice suffer by weakening the system's credibility. Of course,
it is not possible to lay down any cut and dry formula relating to imposition of
sentence but the object of sentencing should be to see that the crime does not
go unpunished and the victim of crime as also the society has the satisfaction
that justice has been done to it. In imposing sentences, in the absence of
specific legislation, Judges must consider variety of factors and after

considering all those factors and taking an over-all view of the situation,
86| Page

impose sentence which they consider to be an appropriate one. Aggravating
factors cannot be ignored and similarly mitigating circumstances have also to
be taken into consideration.“

124. “15. In our opinion, the measure of punishment in a given case must
depend upon the atrocity of the crime; the conduct of the criminal and the
defenceless and unprotected state of the victim. Imposition of appropriate
punishment is the manner in which the courts respond to the society's cry for
justice against the criminals. Justice demands that courts should impose
punishment fitting to the crime so that the courts reflect public abhorrence of
the crime. The courts must not only keep in view the rights of the criminal but
also the rights of the victim of crime and the society at large while considering
imposition of appropriate punishment.”

125. In State Of M.P vs Bablu Natt Hon’ble Apex Court stated “13. The
principle governing imposition of punishment would depend upon the facts and
circumstances of each case. An offence which affects the morale of the society
should be severely dealt with. (14 moreover) in Alister Anthony Pareira vs
State Of Maharashtra Hon’ble Apex Court held “Sentencing is an important task
in the matters of crime. One of the prime objectives of the criminal law is
imposition of appropriate, adequate, just and proportionate sentence
commensurate with the nature and gravity of crime and the manner in which
the crime is done. There is no straitjacket formula for sentencing an accused
on proof of crime. The courts have evolved certain principles: twin objective of
the sentencing policy is deterrence and correction. What sentence would meet
the ends of justice depends on the facts and circumstances of each case and
the court must keep in mind the gravity of the crime, motive for the crime,
nature of the offence and all other attendant circumstances.”

126. In CRIMINAL APPEAL NOS. 607-608 OF 2017 with criminal appeal no.
609-610 of 2017 (arising out of S.L.P. (Criminal) Nos. 3119-3120 of 2014)
Mukesh & Anr. Versus State for NCT of Delhi & Ors (Mukesh & ano vs state for
NCT Delhi & ors (2017)6SCC 356 it has been observed by Hon'ble Apex court “
It is necessary to state here that in the instant case, the brutal, barbaric and
diabolic nature of the crime is evincible from the acts committed by the
accused persons, again in para 356 .... It sounds like a story from a different
world where humanity has been treated with irreverence. The appetite for sex,

the hunger for violence, the position of the powered and the attitude of
87| Page

perversity, to say the least, are bound to shock the collective conscience which
knows not what to do. It is manifest that the wanton lust, the servility to
absolutely unchained carnal desire and slavery to the loathsome beastility of
passion ruled the mindset of the appellants to commit a crime which can
summon with immediacy “tsunami” of shock in the mind of the collective and
destroy the civilised marrows of the milieu in entirety.” 357. “When we
cautiously, consciously and anxiously weigh the aggravating circumstances and
the mitigating factors, we are compelled to arrive at the singular conclusion
that the aggravating circumstances outweigh the mitigating circumstances now
brought on record. Therefore, we conclude and hold that the High Court has
correctly confirmed the death penalty and we see no reason to differ with the
samel.”

127. In Mukesh & ano vs state for NCT Delhi & ors (2017)6SCC Justice
Bhanumati made observation in this case in para 2, 116, 126 and 217 which is
quoted herein

“2.Honesty, pride, and self-esteem are crucial to the personal freedom of a
woman. Social progress depends on the progress of everyone. Again in para 11
held “Duty of court in appreciation of evidence while dealing with cases of
rape: Crime against women is an unlawful intrusion of her right to privacy,
which offends her self-esteem and dignity. Expressing concern over the
increasing crime against women, in State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh and Others
(1996) 2 SCC 384, this Court held as under”:

“21. Of late, crime against women in general and rape in particular is on the
increase. It is an irony that while we are celebrating woman’s rights in all
spheres, we show little or no concern for her honour. It is a sad reflection on
the attitude of indifference of the society towards the violation of human
dignity of the victims of sex crimes. We must remember that a rapist not only
violates the victim’s privacy and personal integrity, but inevitably causes
serious psychological as well as physical harm in the process. Rape is not
merely a physical assault — it is often destructive of the whole personality of
the victim. A murderer destroys the physical body of his victim, a rapist
degrades the very soul of the helpless female. The courts, therefore, shoulder
a great responsibility while trying an accused on charges of rape. They must
deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. The courts should examine the

broader probabilities of a case and not get swayed by minor contradictions or
88| Page

insignificant discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix, which are not of
a fatal nature, to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution case.......
[Emphasis supplied]”

“116. Question of awarding sentence is a matter of discretion and has to be
exercised on consideration of circumstances aggravating or mitigating in the
individual cases. The courts are consistently faced with the situation where
they are required to answer the new challenges and mould the sentence to
meet those challenges. Protection of society and deterring the criminal is the
avowed object of law. It is expected of the courts to operate the sentencing
system as to impose such sentence which reflects the social conscience of the
society. While determining sentence in heinous crimes, Judges ought to weigh
its impact on the society and impose adequate sentence considering the
collective conscience or society’s cry for justice. While considering the
imposition of appropriate punishment, courts should not only keep in view the
rights of the criminal but also the rights of the victim and the society at large.”
“126. As dealing with sentencing, courts have thus applied the “Crime Test”,
“Criminal Test” and the “Rarest of the Rare Test”, the tests examine whether
the society abhors such crimes and whether such crimes shock the conscience
of the society and attract intense and extreme indignation of the community.
Courts have further held that where the victims are helpless women, children
or old persons and the accused displayed depraved mentality, committing
crime in a diabolic manner, the accused should be shown no remorse and
death penalty should be awarded.”

“127.Even the young age of the accused is not a mitigating circumstance for
commutation to life, as has been held in the case of Bhagwan Swarup v. State
of U.P. (1971) 3 SCC 759 (para 5), Deepak Rai v. State of Bihar (2013) 10 SCC
421 (para 91-100) and Shabhnam v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2015) 6 SCC 632
(para 36)”

128. In State of U.P. Vs. Satish (2005) 3 SCC 114 the victim was a six year
old girl who lost her life on account of the bestial acts of the respondent who
raped and murdered her. The body was found in a sugarcane field and blood
was oozing from her private parts and there were marks of pressing on her
neck (suggesting death by strangulation). It was held that this diabolic,
iniquitous, flagitious act reached the lowest level of humanity when the rape

was followed by brutal murder. Hence death sentence was justified.
g9| Page

129. Now, let me analyze the whole facts and circumstances of the case,
manner of commission of the offence and the aggravating and mitigating facts
of the case in terms of settled principle of law to arrive at just decision on the
point of sentence whether the present case is fall in the category of ‘rarest or
rare cases’ and aggravating factor outweigh the mitigating factor or not?

130. Aggravating facts of the case: Deceased victim was 7 years old
child; deceased was victim of aggravated penetrative sexual assault and rape
at the tender age of 7 years when her age is to play and move like a butterfly,
after the rape of 7 years child she was threw in the ditch with injury on her
head, private parts, and other parts of body on a rainy storm season to die
during the month of April (rainy storm season started in the month of April in
the state of Assam); incident night was rainy night and girl was threw to die in
the cold rainy day with injury suffering in pain with no one to save her;
deceased child was immediate neighbor of the accused and she was not save
at her own village; at the age of 7 years when child has not developed any
sexual character fall in the carnal pray of the accused who is closely known to
the victim, helpless and defenseless child, no provocation, injury on the child,
cold blooded , pre planed, calculated murder, conduct of the accused and
manner of commission of the offence by the accused upon a 7 years old girl
who bestowed her faith on accused being her villager and next door brother.
Cross examination of the PWs does not pointed that accused committed the
offence under moral or emotion disturbance under intoxication, under pressure
or under domination of another person. Rather evidence on record bring,
accused committed the crime is most barbaric, savage, pre-planned, calculated
way to fulfil his carnal lust and his conduct pointed adult female and ladies in
general of the village is not safe in presence of the accused in the society.

131. Mitigating facts: young age of the accused; no past criminal record
brought by prosecution.

132. The offence committed by the convicted accused Gauri Shankar Nath is
heinous gravest one. It is shocking incident to society as a whole. The accused
is next door neighbor of the deceased victim girl, there is no feud with the
family member of deceased. Accused is the village elder brother of the
deceased victim girl and next door neighbor having same compound and
accused being village elder brother of the deceased girl and adjacent neighbor

of the 7 years old victim girl it is his utmost moral duty to protect the life of the
90|Page

girl being his sister who believe him and so thus went with him for joyous cycle
riding but accused instead of protecting the girl from all odds, taking
advantage of marriage function of his cousin sister, took away the innocent
unguarded girl to lonely place of samshan ghat, rape her who has no defence
except crying in pain and agony and accused with fit mental condition after
committing rape on her causing injury on her body head, face, private parts,
he threw her in the ditch on a rainy day to die her in the water that is most
vulgar, barbaric, inhuman, brutal, cold blooded, calculated, per planned sordid
nature crime.

133. When the incident was took place society cry for justice to the girl and
there was storm and cay of the society as a whole after the incident in the
society for stringent punishment to eliminate this type of crime from the
society. The incident of rape of a 7 years old child shock the societies and
judicious consciousness and society cry for justice of the departed soul of the
rape victim child. The conduct of the accused the manner of committing the
offence by the accused clearly bring on record that he had committed the
crime after planning it and therefore he choose the date to commit the crime
on the date of his cousin sister marriage function, where father of the victim
girl was called to cook the fest meal, and other villager come to the house for
the occasion. So taking advantage of all these circumstances he materialize the
crime and he took away the poor girl and also took his toddler nephew to give
impression to other if any one see him they will not suspect him and he could
easily escape from the legal punishment of the crime committed by him.
Accused first win the confidence of the little girl to take with her on his bicycle
pretending to be bicycle riding that child of that age like most and then he
made her victim of his salvage lust and to fulfil his carnal lust he caused injury
on the mid-scalp, abrasion on both eye lid, bruise on lateral part of vaginal
introtius of 1 x 0.5 cm, 0.5 cm of hymen tear on posterior part, 0.5x0.5 cm of
anal mucosal tear on posterior part and injury caused to the victim alone
pointed the torture he did with the little girl to full fill his barbaric carnal lust
and this is not only condemnable but it must be eliminate from the society for
safe living of the children of the society in particular and woman folk in
general. The most barbaric conduct of the accused of committing rape on the
child of 7 years causing injury on her body and then throwing her in the water
in the rainy storm season of Boghag Month (Assamese Boghag Month English
91|Page

April month) to die of suffocation under water in pain does not deserve any
leniency and society call for stringent punishment to eliminate this type of
criminal from the society to make safe place for the woman in particular and
citizen in general.

134. One neighboring girl of 7 years of age who called accused as brother
and known to the family member of the deceased girl and when there is no
provocation, no enmity, no dispute, accused can commit rape on 7 years old
girl of his next door neighbor who was helpless, innocent, defence less child of
only 7 years having no knowledge what is sex, falls prey of accused carnal lust,
then it is easily sensible for adult woman of the society that they will not safe
in the society in accused presence. The court duty is to see the safety and
security of the larger section of the society not to consider the plight of one
person who has committed rape which alone is most barbaric heinous crime
that kill the very spirit of the woman and destroy the life of rape victim and in
the case in hand accused after committing rape on the 7 year old child did not
take breadth and kill her in most ghastly barbaric way by throwing the girl in
ditch in face downward to die her in suffocation having no one to help the girl
for her rescue and the conduct of the accused manner of committing the
offence by the accused person does not entitle any treatment of leniency and
this case is falls within the rarest of rare one in view of the principle set in
Bachan Singh and Machhi Singh case. The offence committed by the accused
person and manner of committing the offence is most un-savaged, most
barbaric one and the horror story of committing rape on 7 years old child and
murder of the child by immersing child face downward ( submerged) is the
water to die in suffocation and pain shaken and shock the consciousness of the
society and court and out weight the mitigating facts and aggravating facts is
much high above the mitigating facts and in the case in hand woman of the
society when not save in presence of the accused in the society, the death
sentence is only option left to punish the accused.

135. Ld. Special P.P submitted that instant case, the offence committed by
the accused is first of its kind in the subdivision of the Bilasipara and the
conduct of the accused and nature and manner of committing the crime by the
accused give shivering to the society and woman are not safe in presence of

the accused in the society and therefore accused does not deserve any
92|Page

leniency and aggravating circumstances of the case out weight mitigating fact
of young age of the accused.

136. When mitigating factor and aggravating factor is weighted, it is found
weight of aggravating factor is more and the conduct of the accused clearly
pointed this is a cold blooded murder after committing aggravated penetrative
sexual assault on the deceased child. Accused who is the adjacent neighbor of
the deceased child, took the innocent child on his bicycle and said child was
under impression of the joyful riding of cycle, committed aggravated sexual
assault (rape) upon her that too in presence of another toddler of less than 3
years who just could able to say one or two words and then after fulfilling his
carnal lust he threw the girl in the ditch to let her die. His conduct is most
cruel, barbaric and savage. He had mother at his home, having his sister but
he did not think of the plight of the woman and he gone to the extreme point
to commit rape on 7 years old child who do not understood anything and then
threw her in the ditch after causing injury on her lips, eye, head and other
parts of the body and let her die under pain. Accused only for his carnal lust
made the 7 years innocent girl to his prey and to wipe out the evidence he
committed murder of an innocent girl child without any provocation and the
crime committed by the accused and manner of commission of the offence
shocked and shivered the society and society cay for end of the savage crime
committed by the accused.

137. Testimonies of PW-1, PW-5, PW-6, PW-7, PW-8, PW-9, PW-15 and PW-
16, the IO of the case revealed that whole night accused mislead the search
operation and on next morning at about 04.00 to 04.30 am, when police bring
accused to the village school field where incident was started first and from
this place police took custody of the accused on the day of incident and again
interrogated accused in their presence. This time accused Gauri Shankar Nath
took police to the Lutapara Besimari village Samsan ghat (Kachua beel) and
showed dead body in ditch and PW-5 Gajen lifted the body as directed by the
police. The conduct of the accused in misleading the direction of search
operation clearly pointed that he was only waiting for the death of the girl. It is
accused who know where he threw the victim girl Miss X, the 7 years old child
and accused only to eliminate her from this world in cold blooded committed
series of crime in one incident which is most barbaric savage, brutal and threat

to the society and society is not safe in his presence. When this incident of
93|Page

rape with murder of 7 years old girl was took place by the close next door
brother of the deceased victim girl, it gave shock to the consciousness of the
society and society feels and wanted stringent punishment to curb this menace
from the society for the safety of woman folk.

138. Again coming to the facts and circumstances of the case in hand, it
pointed that accused Gauri Shankar Nath taking advantage of marriage
function in the village took the girl with him in an isolated place after winning
her confidence showing joyous bicycle riding to full fill his ghastly act of
barbaric carnal lust and then to eliminate her threw in the ditch in the isolated
place to let her die with no one to help her and then returning home on the
same bicycle to home to show if nothing was happened and then when he was
asked about the girl, he tried to flee away from the village telling father of the
deceased that he too is going to search Miss X. The most cold blooded murder
of the 7 years old girl after rape by the accused when compared with the facts
of his young it falls far away and aggravating facts were on high level.

139. After going through the aforesaid principles of law set forth by the
highest court and when applied in the present case to balance the aggravated
and mitigating fact I find the mitigating fact has no force, weight in comparison
to the aggravated facts and young age of the accused in this case not out
weight the aggravating factor of the helpless, defenseless 7 years old girl child
who was rape and murdered. When one 7 years old girl is not safe in the
society in presence of the accused, the other adult woman of the society is not
at all safe in the society in presence of the accused in the society and collective
conscience of society and consciousness of the court is shocked and shivered
by the crime committed by the accused and keeping in view the settled
principle of law set by Hon’ble Apex Court in Bachan Singh vs State of Punjab
and Machhi Singh & ors I find that this is the case falling in the category of
‘rarest of rare cases’ so to award the death penalty u/s 302 I.P.C as
imprisonment for life is foreclosed in the case and death penalty is only option

for safer society.
94|Page

Punishment

140. Section 42 of the POCSO Act says: “42. Alternative punishment.-
Where an act or omission constitute an offence punishable under this Act and
also under section 166A, 354-A, 354-B, 354-C, 354-D, 370, 370-A, 375, 376,
[376-A, 376-B, 376-C, 376-D, 376-AB, 376-DA, 376-DB] 376-E, or section 509
of the Indian Penal Code then, notwithstanding anything contained in any law
for the time being in force, the offender found guilty of such offence shall be
liable to punishment only under such law or this Act as provides for
punishment which is greater in degree.”

141. Maximum punishment prescribed u/s 6 of POCSO Act is imprisonment
for life but which shall not be less than 10 years and shall be liable to fine.

142. Coming to section 42 of the POCSO Act. I find that act of accused
constitute an offence which is punishable u/s 376-AB IPC and punishment
prescribed in section 376-AB of IPC is greater in degree. Therefore, I am of the
considered opinion, if accused is sentenced u/s 376-AB IPC it will also serve
the purpose of section 6 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly for the offence
committed by the accused u/s 6 of POCSO Act which is equivalent to the
offence u/s 376-AB IPC, I deem it fit to sentence the accused u/s 376-AB of
the Indian Penal Code and same will do the justice.

143. In view of my aforesaid discussion, I award the following punishment to
the convict Gauri Sankar Nath @ Banka

144. I sentence convict Gauri Shankar Nath @ Banka to death for the
offence punishable under section 302 IPC. Accordingly convict Gauri Shankar
Nath @ Banka to be hanged by neck till he is dead. I also imposed fine of =
5000/-and in default of payment of fine convict Gauri Shankar is sentenced to
undergo SI of 6 month u/s 302 IPC

145. For the offence under section 376-AB IPC, I award the punishment of
rigorous imprisonment for life which means imprisonment for the remainder of
the natural life of the convict accused Gauri Shankar Nath and also imposed
fine of = 15,000/- in default payment of fine to undergo S.I of 1 year u/s 376-
AB I.P.C. The punishment u/s 376-AB I.P.C will do the justice for offence u/s 6
of the POCSO Act
95| Page

146. For the offence under section 201 IPC, I award the punishment of 3
years rigorous imprisonment and also imposed fine of % 2000/- in default to
pay fine to undergo another S.I of 3 month u/s 201 I.P.C.

147. The sentence u/s 376-AB IPC/201 I.P.C will run concurrently. Benefit
u/s 428 Cr.P.C be given wherever applicable.

148. Case record of this proceeding be submitted to the Hon’ble High Court
for the confirmation of the death penalty u/s 366 Cr.P.C along with the case
diary and all relevant materials. The file be prepared and be sent to Hon’ble
High Court as per rules.

149. The sentence of death imposed on the convict shall not be executed
unless confirmed by the Hon'ble High Court.

150. The convict Gauri Shankar Nath be commuted to jail custody under
warrant.

151. Let furnish free certified copy of judgment and order of sentence to
Convict Gauri Shankar Nath @ Banka.

152. The convicted accused is told that he has right to appeal against the
judgment and order of this court before Hon'ble High court through the jail
authority or independently of his own. Convicted accused is further informed
that he is entitled free legal aid to prefer appeal before the Hon’ble High court.
153. Seized one bicycle and one mobile handset vide Ext-7 be disposed of in
auction sale and sale proceed be deposited in the State Exchequer; Seized
jeans long pant of convict Gauri Shankar Nath @ Banka vide Ext-19 be
destroyed in due course of time in accordance with law; Seized wearing
apparels of deceased victim child be handed over to the parents of deceased
victim child in due course of time. The exhibit and seized items be preserved
till the confirmation of death sentence by the Hon’ble High Court.

154. Send copy of judgment and order to District Magistrate Dhubri u/s 365
Cr.P.C

155. DLSA Dhubri will make necessary enquiry to provide the compensation
to the next kin of the deceased under the Victim Compensation Scheme as
envisage u/s 357-A Cr.P.C as state failed to protect the life of the deceased.
156. Send copy of the judgment and order and relevant document to the
learned Secretary DLSA Dhubri for determination of the compensation to be

payable to the next kin of the deceased ‘Miss X’
96|Page

157. Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 29" day of March, 2019
at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Dictated and Corrected by me,
(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Typed by,
Swmkhwr Brahma, Stenographer Gr. III.
97|Page

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

PW-1 Prodip Kr. Nath,

PW-2 Pranita Devi,

PW-3 Chandra Bala Devi,

PW-4 Anjali Devi,

PW-5 Gajen Ch. Nath,

PW-6 Pradip Kr. Nath S/O Lt. Tipin Ch. Nath,

PW-7 Samendra Narayan Barman,

PW-8 Dayal Nath,

PW-9 Anil Ch. Nath,

PW-10 Abdul Latif,

PW-11 Dr. Sk. Md. Azahar (M.O),

PW-12 Nabajit Pathak,

PW-13 Chandra Prava Devi,

PW-14 Lalit Kr. Nath,

PW-15 Lumanta Kr. Nath,

PW-16 SI Imdadul Hussain (1.0) and

PW-17 Dr. Monalisha Choudhury (Scientific Officer).
PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-

Ext-1 Ejahar,

Ext-2 inquest report,

Ext-3 Statement of PW-3 recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,

Ext-4 Statement of PW-4 recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,

Ext-5 Seizure list,

Ext-6 statement of PW-6 recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,

Ext-7 Seizure list,

Ext-8 Seizure list,

Ext-9 statement of PW-7 recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,

Ext-10 Statement of PW-9 recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,

Ext-11 Post Mortem Report,

Ext-12 Statement of PW-15 recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,

Ext-13 informant general diary entry no. 376 dated 29-04-18 of

Raniganj out post,
98| Page

Ext-14 general diary entry no. 381 dated 30-04-2018 of

Raniganj out post,

Ext-15 general diary entry no. 382 dated 30-04-18,

Ext-16 requisition sent to Dhubri Civil Hospital to conduct post mortem
examination on dead body of victim child,

Ext-17 Dead body challan,

Ext-18 Command Certificate,

Ext-19 Seizure list,

Ext-20 Sketch map of the place of occurrence where accused took
victim,

Ext-21 Sketch map of the place of occurrence where dead body of
victim recovered,

Ext-22 Charge sheet,

Ext-23 DNA test report,

Ext-24 Serological report and

Ext-25 forwarding letter of the Director cum Chemical Examiner to the

Govt. of Assam

DEFENCE WITNESS _ :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS _ :- NIL
COURT EXHIBITS = NIL
COURT WITNESS is NIL

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
