CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 27/16

Informant: | Smti. Pari Singh,
W/o- Sri Rana Singh,
R/o- Mattack Tea Estate, Marapat Line, near Sessa Baba,
PS- Lahoal,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Pradip Handique,
S/0- Sri Green Handique,
R/o- Gharia Gaon,
PS- Tengakhat,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCA TES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
For the Defence: learned Advocate
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 27/16
G.R. Case No. 633/16

State of Assam
- Vs-

Sri Pradip Handique

Charges: Under Sections 8/4/18 of the POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on: 14-07-16, 16-07-16, 19-09-16 & 03-10-16.
Date of argument: 18-03-17.
Date of Judgment: 16-05-17.

1)

2)

3)

JUDGMENT

The facts leading to this case in brief infra is that on 08-03-16, at about 5:00
pm, the minor victim X was left in the shop by her mother who went to her
house. When the mother returned to the shop, she found her daughter crying
and when asked, the victim X replied that Sri Pradip Handique (hereinafter
the accused) committed shameful assault on her. When she tried to get hold
of the accused to ask him about the incident, the accused shoved her away
and fled leaving behind his red coloured Bajaj Pulsar motorcycle bearing No.
AS-06-B-3743. An ejahar regarding this incident was lodged with the police
which was registered as Lahoal Police Station Case No. 26/16 under Section
376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC in short), read with Section 7 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO in short).

The Investigating Officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation and
recorded the statements of the witnesses and forwarded the victim to the
Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure (CrPC in short). On finding prima facie materials, he
submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused under Section 376 of the IPC,
read with Section 7 of the POCSO Act.

On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
the Sides, a formal charge under Section 8/4/18 of the POCSO Act was
4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

framed and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and
claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of seven
witnesses including the IO. To refute the charges, the defence cross-
examined the witnesses in extenso, but did not tender any evidence in
defence. On the questions regarding the circumstances arising against him,
the plea of the accused through his answers under Section 313(I)(b) of the
CrPC is that of total denial.
SUBMISSIONS:
The learned Public Prosecutor Smti. R Devi submitted that this case has been
proved beyond reasonable doubt and there is clinching evidence against the
accused person. It is submitted that considering the age of the victim,
stringent punishment ought to be inflicted on the accused. On the other
hand, the learned defence counsel laid stress in his argument that this case is
fraught with contradictions and the accused deserves acquittal. It is also
submitted that if the accused is convicted on the basis of a false case, he will
be dismissed from his newly appointed service in the BCPL.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

On the backdrop of the rival contentions proponed at the bar, the following
points are apposite for decision:
1. Whether on 08-03-16, the accused committed sexual assault on X, a

minor?
2. Whether on the same day, time and place, the accused attempted to

commit penetrative sexual on the minor victim X?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION
To decide the case in its right perspective, it is necessary to advert to the
evidence on record. The victim was only ten years of age and oath was not
administered after assessment of the victim by the Court. Several questions
were asked to the victim and her intelligence was assessed by the Court and
oath was not administered.
The victim stated that she saw the accused for the first time on the day of
the incident. She identified the Ext. A, the photograph of the accused. She
further stated that on the day of the incident, she was in her shop near her
house and her mother went to their house. At that time, one boy came in a

bike and asked her whether there was Rajanigandha in their shop. She
9)

answered that she had Rajanigandha, but she could not reach out for the
same, as the packet was kept at a height. So she asked the boy to help
himself with the packet and the boy tore off one packet. Thereafter, he asked
for a Cigarette and she replied that Cigarette was not available. At that time,
Pranami Mahi went to her shop and asked for biscuits and she replied that
biscuit was not available and so Pranami went away. The boy again entered
into their shop and asked whether she would like to take ping-pong and she
replied that she did not know what ping-pong was. Then he told her to
promise that she will eat ping-pong and then he took out his penis and asked
her to take it into her mouth, assuring that he will leave after that. She
further stated that she rebuked the boy as a dirty person and pushed him
away and went outside. Meanwhile, Pranami Mahi informed her mother that
an unknown person was inside their shop and so her mother came back to
the shop with Pranami Mahi. They reached the shop while the accused was
leaving and she narrated the incident to her mother and Pranami Mahi and as
the accused was about to flee on his motorcycle, Pranami Mahi caught hold
of the motorcycle. Then Pranami Mahi's husband, i.e., Baba Das also arrived
and was about to hit the accused, but the accused managed to escape by
jumping over the fence and diving into the Sessa River. Thereafter, she did
not see how the accused escaped. Baba Das informed the police and the
police arrived and took away the bike. On the same day, she went to the
police station along with her parents and the police recorded her statement.
She also came to the Court for recording her statement. Ext. 1 is her
statement and Ext. 1(1) to Ext. 1(4) are her signatures.

The evidence of PW-1 is also supported by the evidence of Smti. Pranami
Hazarika who testified as PW-4. She testified that she saw the accused on the
day of the incident and later learnt that the name of the accused is Sri Pradip
Handique. The victim girl is known to her and her age is about ten years. The
incident took place about four months ago. On that day, at about 5:30 pm,
she went to the victim's shop. When she went out of the shop, she met the
victim's mother near the shop and then she went to the shop and saw the
accused standing in their shop. Then the victim's mother screamed and asked
her to catch the accused person who was in the shop. Then she immediately
with her husband rushed towards the shop and tried to catch the accused,

but the accused escaped and left his bike in front of their shop. Later she
learnt that the victim's mother lodged an ejahar with the police. Although,
PW-4's evidence supports PW-1's evidence, her testimony does not implicate
the accused. She testified about a commotion in the shop, but she did not
implicate that the accused is complicit. She did not describe why the
commotion arose in the victim’s shop.

10) The evidence of PW-1 is also supported by the evidence of her parents. Sri
Rana Singh testified as PW-2 that the incident took place about four months
back. On the day of the occurrence, when he returned home from work at
about 7:00 pm, he noticed a gathering. Then he learnt from his wife that the
accused person tried to misbehave with his daughter while she was in their
shop. After a while, police arrived and seized the bike left behind by the
accused person from the place in front of their shop. Ext. 3 is the Seizure-List
and Ext. 3(2) is his signature. He went to the police station along with his
wife and his daughter. The police recorded his statement. In the police
station, he came to know that the accused person was apprehended by
another person. The police then brought the accused person to the police
station. He further stated that his daughter was ten years at the time of the
incident. In his cross-examination, he stated that he did not know if the
accused person tried to misbehave with his daughter or if there was another
person in his shop. In his examination-in-chief, he stated that he did not
know the accused person, but he saw the accused person for the first time
on the day of the incident. He further stated in his cross-examination that he
did not ask his daughter about the incident. He further stated in his cross-
examination that he did not know whether the accused was the owner of the
motorcycle, but he heard from the other people that the motorcycle belonged
to the accused person. Thus, the evidence of PW-2 rebuts the evidence of
PW-1. He altogether denied in his cross-examination that he did not know
whether the accused person tried to misbehave with his daughter or
attempted to misbehave with his daughter and he also did not ask his
daughter about the incident.

11)The victim’s mother Smti. Pori Singh testified as PW-3 that she saw the
accused person for the first time on the day of the incident. The incident took
place on 08-03-16. On that day, at about 4: 30 pm, she left her daughter X in
the shop and went to her house to serve tea to her father-in-law who was

suffering from Paralysis. Her daughter X was about ten years at that time.
After an hour, when she returned to her shop, she met Pranami Hazarika
(PW-4) in front of her shop who informed her that one unknown person was
entering into her shop. When she reached her shop, she saw the accused
person tearing a packet of Rajanigandha and her daughter X was standing in
front of her shop. Then she expressed her displeasure and asked the accused
why he was tearing the packets himself and she wanted to slap the accused.
The accused then replied that as the little girl could not reach for the packet
hanging on top, he helped himself to the packet. She (PW-3) was enraged
because the accused person should have taken the packet from outside the
shop, but he entered into the shop. When she was about to offer the change,
her daughter informed her that the accused had taken out his penis and
asked her to suck it. At that time, Pranami Hazarika (PW-4) who was
following her caught hold of the accused person when she heard about the
incident. In the mean time, Babu @ Tapan Hazarika, husband of Pranami
arrived and tried to assault the accused who jumped over the fence and fell
into the Sessa river. Several people assembled there and someone informed
the police. After half an hour, the police arrived and she along with her
husband and daughter went to the police station. She lodged the ejahar Ext.
2 where Ext. 2(1) is her Signature. The police seized the motorcycle
belonging to the accused person from the place of occurrence which was left
behind by the accused person in front of their shop. Ext. 1 is the Seizure-List
and Ext. 3(1) is her signature. The police recorded her statement. Police also
recorded the statement of her daughter and forwarded her to the Magistrate
who recorded her statement. She also accompanied her daughter to the
Court.

12)The evidence of PW-2 corroborates the evidence of PW-1. The evidence of
PW-2 clearly depicts that at the time of the incident, the accused displayed
his penis to her daughter and asked her to suck it. She testified that after she
returned to the shop, her daughter who was left alone in the shop was
present and the accused person was helping himself to a packet of
Rajanigandha. Her daughter informed her that the accused took out his penis
and asked her to suck it. Pranami who heard about the incident caught the
accused and her husband tried to apprehend the accused. PW-l & 2
categorically stated that Babu tried to apprehend the accused, but the

accused escaped and plunged into the Sessa river. The accused also left
behind his motorcycle which was parked in front of their shop. This
motorcycle was seized by the police. There is no doubt about it. This
motorcycle was seized by the police through Ext. 3(2). Although PW-3 was
reluctant to testify in her cross-examination that the motorcycle seized by the
accused vide Ext. 3 belonged to the accused person, yet there is clinching
evidence that the accused left behind his motorcycle when he tried to escape
from Babu. PW-1, 2, 3 & 4 testified in corroboration that the accused left
behind the motorcycle while escaping and this is supported by the IO’s
evidence.

13) The Investigating Officer Sri Anjan Saikia testified as PW-7 that he seized the
motorcycle from the place of occurrence in the presence of witnesses. Ext. 3
is the Seizure-List and Ext. 3(1) is his signature. It is clear from the Ext. 3
that during investigation, the police seized the motorcycle on being produced
by the complainant Smti. Pori Singh. The registration number is AS-06-H-
3473. The motorcycle was given in jimma to the owner. There is no doubt
about the fact that a motorcycle was left behind by a person on the day of
the incident. The PW-7 testified that on 08-03-16, he was posted as Officer-
in-charge at Lahoal Police Station. On that day, he received an information
over phone and registered a GDE No. 182 dtd. 08-03-16 at Lahoal Police
Station and proceeded to the place of Occurrence. During investigation, he
recorded the statements of the witnesses and seized the motorcycle alleged
to have been left behind by the accused person. Ext. 3 is the Seizure-List and
Ext. 3(1) is his signature. The complainant lodged the ejahar. Ext. 2 is the
ejahar which was registered as Lahoal Police Station Case No. 26/16 dtd.
08-03-16 under Section 376 IPC, r/w Section 7 of the POCSO Act. He
continued with the investigation. The police searched for the accused person.
The accused person was finally caught at about 7:30 pm behind the Sessa
River and his garments were wet at that time. At this stage, it is pertinent to
mention that PW-1 and her mother PW-3 testified that while escaping, the
accused plunged into the Sessa River.

14) Thereafter, the accused was sent for medical examination. He recorded the
statements of the victim and other witnesses. On the next day, he forwarded
the victim to the Court for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC.
On 10-03-16, Sri Girin Handique, the father of the accused appeared in the

police station and after verifying the documents of the motorcycle, it was
given in jimma to Sri Girin Handique. After completion of investigation,
Charge-Sheet was laid against the accused under Section 376 IPC, read with
Section 7 of the POCSO Act. Ext. 4 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 4(1) is his
Signature. On a later date, the IO was again re-examined and he exhibited
the extract copy of the GDE No. 182 dtd. 08-03-16. Ext. 5 is the Extract Copy
of the GDE and Ext. 5(1) is his signature. Ext. 5 & 2 are similar and
corroborative. The ejahar Ext. 2 and the GDE Ext. 5 is corroborated by the
evidence of PW-1 & 2. It is clear from the ejahar and the Seizure-List that the
motorcycle No. AS-06-H-3743 was seized in connection with this case and the
IOs evidence clearly depicts that the accused person’s father took jimma of
the motorcycle. PW-1 & 2 had been confronted regarding their omission to
state before the IO. The IO who testified as PW-7 affirmed that PW-1 did not
state before him that one boy came on a bike and asked her for
Rajanigandha and that she told the boy that as Rajanigandha packets were
kept at a height, it was not reachable by her. She asked the accused to tear
the packet and the accused helped himself to one packet and that he asked
for a cigarette, but she told the accused that she did not have cigarettes and
at that time, Pranami Mahi came to her shop for biscuits and when she did
not get any biscuits, Pranami went away. The IO also affirmed that the victim
did not state before him that the accused managed to flee by jumping over
the fence and diving into the Sessa river. The IO also affirmed that the victim
did not state before him that she scolded the accused as dirty person and
shoved him away.

15)The minor victim was confronted by the defence lawyer regarding some
minor contradictions. The victim was not contradicted regarding the indecent
act of the accused person. The learned defence counsel did not confront the
victim whether she stated before the IO that the accused person displayed
his penis and asked her to suck his penis. This evidence of the minor victim
remains uncontroverted and uncontradicted. The evidence of the victim's
mother also remains uncontroverted regarding the fact that the accused
showed his penis to the victim and asked her to suck the penis.

16) Moreover, although it was not stated by the victim under Section 161 of the
CrPC that Pranami was present at the time of the incident, Pranami and her
husband Baba supports the testimony of X and her mother that both were

present in the shop at the time of the incident.
17)The complainant Smti. Pori Singh was confronted by the learned defence
counsel regarding her omission to state before the IO which has been
affirmed by the IO that she did not state before the IO that Pranami told her
that an unknown person entered into her shop. PW-7, i.e., the IO also
affirmed that PW-3, i.e., Smti. Pori Singh did not state before her that the
accused tore a packet of Rajanigandha and her daughter was standing in
front of the shop and she scolded the accused for tearing the packet himself
and she wanted to slap him and then the accused replied that X could not
reach for the packet of Rajanigandha and so he took the packet himself and
that the accused offered her (PW-3) Rs. 100/- for Rajanigandha. The IO also
affirmed that PW-3 did not state before him that at that time, Pranami
Hazarika was following her and hearing about the incident from X, she caught
hold of the accused and in the meantime, Baba arrived and tried to assault
the accused. The IO also affirmed that PW-3 did not state before him that
she was enraged because the accused could have taken the Rajanigandha
from outside the shop, but he entered into the shop.

18) All the aforesaid contradictions cannot be assessed to be embellishments.
The witnesses may have supplemented their evidence by some extraneous
descriptions, but the crux of the case was not refuted. In the instant case,
the victim’s testimony cannot be scrutinized as the evidence of a normal child
witness. This is the evidence of a victim who is a child witness. When she
gave her statement under Section 161 CrPC immediately after the incident,
‘X’ was in a state of shock. So, she must have missed some nuances while
narrating the incident.

19) Moreover, Section 29 of the POCSO Act enjoins that:

Presumption as to certain offences. — Where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence
under sections 3, 5, 7 and section 9 of this Act, the Special Court
Shall presume, that such person has committed or abetted or
attempted to commit the offence, as the case may be unless the
contrary Is proved.

20) Reverting back to the instant case, it has already been held in my foregoing
discussions that there is clinching evidence that the accused displayed his
penis to the victim. it has already been discussed that the defence failed to

contradict the witnesses, i.e., PW-1 & 3 that the accused displayed his penis
10

to the victim and suggested to take his penis into her mouth. There are
several contradictions and extraneous statements made by the victim while
testifying in the Court. This extraneous statement of the victim and her
mother have been contradicted by the defence counsel and affirmed by the
IO. But these are minor contradictions and does not rebut the evidence that
the accused displayed his penis to the victim. The evidence clearly depicts
that the accused displayed his penis to the victim and asked her to take into
her mouth. The pivotal point of this case has not been rebutted. It is true
that during the time of investigation, the victim and her mother must have
missed some subtle nuances while narrating the incident to the IO, but they
have been cohesive and coherent while describing how the accused displayed
his penis and asked the victim to suck it.

21) No overt act can be attributed to the accused. No force was exercised by the
accused in an attempt to assault the victim sexually or commit sexual assault
on the victim. The evidence depicts mere gesture of the accused person and
no overt act has been depicted by the evidence of the victim X and her
mother PW-3. Although PW-4 was reluctant to evince against the accused,
yet her evidence supports the fact that on the day of the incident, at about
5:30 pm, she went to the victim’s shop and when she went out of the shop,
she met the victim’s mother. When she went out of the shop, she met the
victim’s mother and then she went with her to the shop and at that time, she
saw the accused standing near the shop. At that time, X’s mother screamed.
Her evidence clearly hints that X’s mother screamed at that time, though she
did not testify anything against the accused. Pranami’s husband’s evidence
also supports the evidence of the victim that at the time of the incident, he
saw the accused running away from the shop and several people gathered
and the accused left his bike in front of the shop. Later, he learnt that the
accused tried to misbehave with the victim. He further testified that police
went to the place of occurrence on the night of the occurrence and also on
the next day. Pranami’s husband is Sri Tapan Hazarika and he testified as
PW-5. This person Sri Tapan Hazarika is described as Babada by the victim in
her testimony as PW-1. PW-1 & 2's evidence depicts in a coherent manner
that when the accused tried to flee at the time of the incident, PW-5 Babada
tried to apprehend him, but the accused managed to flee. PW-5 did not state

that he tried to apprehend the accused when he tried to flee, but his
11

evidence depicts that the accused tried to misbehave with the victim girl. His
evidence also depicts that the accused ran away from the place of
occurrence.

22)From my foregoing discussions, it can be held that although PW-5 was
reluctant to narrate the entire incident in the Court, yet his evidence clearly
depicts that he heard from the people that the accused misbehaved with X.

23) Another witness Sri Sujoy Moran testified as PW-6 that he saw the accused
person on the day of the incident which took place about 2/3 months back.
On that day, at about 5:30 pm, while he was in his shop which is in front of
the complainant's shop, he heard a commotion and went out. He noticed
several people assembled there and he learnt from the villagers that the
accused uttered some indecent words to the victim. He further testified that
he saw the accused person standing in front of the victim’s shop.

24)In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that the evidence
elicited clearly depicts that the accused is complicit. PW-1 & 3 have clearly
described how the accused is complicit. It has already been discussed earlier
that when an accused is alleged of offence under Section 3 & 7 of the Act,
the Court shall presume that the accused person has committed or attempted
to commit the offence, unless the contrary is proved. In the instant case, the
accused could not prove the contrary.

25) Moreover, Section 30 of the Act envisages:

Presumption of culpable mental state.-

1) In any prosecution for any offence under this Act which
requires a culpable mental state on the part of the
accused, the Special Court shall presume the existence
of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the
accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental
state with respect to the act charged as an offence in
that prosecution.

2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be
proved only when the Special Court believes it to exist
beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its
existence is established by a preponderance of

probability.
12

Explanation. - In this section, “culpable mental state”
includes intention, motive, knowledge of a fact and the
belief in, or reason to believe, a fact.

26) Reverting back to this case, the accused failed to defend himself and prove
that he has no such mental state.

27) Recapitulating the entire evidence, it is held that there was no overt act on
the part of the accused to exercise pressure and sexualy assault the victim or
to cause penetrative sexual assault on the victim. His act is a mere
suggestion to the victim to suck his penis. He did not act in furtherance of his
suggestion. Thereby the accused is not held guilty of the offence under
Section 8 of the POCSO Act. In an attempt to commit an offence, there has
to be an overt act which has not been proved by the prosecution. Thereby
the accused is also not held guilty under Section 4/18 of the Act. It is
germane to mention at this stage that the culpable mental state existed and
there is clinching evidence in this regard.

28) It is apt to mention at this stage that the learned defence counsel laid stress
in his argument that the complainant was desirous to amicably settle the
dispute with the accused and so she admitted in her cross-examination that
she was not interested to proceed with the case. Moreover, her husband
denied any knowledge about the incident. But I have already discussed
earlier that there is clinching evidence against the accused. The evidence has
been meticulously scrutinized and analyzed in my foregoing discussions.
Regarding the time of incident, the witnesses have correctly given the time.
The witnesses could not give accurate time because they are naive citizens
who does not keep record of date and time. They have given the date and
time as far as their memory could take them back. The witnesses have given
evidence on 14 & 16 July, 2016 in this Court and the case was registered
on 08-03-16. PW-1 is a minor victim and so her evidence is assessed within
that realm. PW-2, 4 & 5 correctly stated that the incident took place about
four months back. The complainant has given an accurate date of incident. It
can be clearly assessed from the evidence that the incident took place in the
evening.

29) After considering the entire evidence, it is held that the prosecution could
prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused has committed an offence
described under Section 11 of the POCSO Act. Section 11 of the Act is a lower
13

offence and although not charged under Section 12 of the POCSO Act, the
accused can be punished under Section 12 of the POCSO Act.

30) According to Section 11 of the POCSO Act, a person is said to
commit sexual harassment upon a child with sexual intent when he
utters any word or makes any sign, or makes any gesture or
exposes any part of his body with intention that such word or sign
shall be heard or such part of his body shall be seen by the child.
The punishment for offence under Section 11 of the POCSO Act is
described by Section 12 of the Act.

31) Regarding the quantum of sentence, I believe that the accused taking the
advantage of the victim being alone behaved in a very disgraceful manner. I
believe that a sentence of imprisonment will meet the ends of justice and will
also act a deterrent. The age of the victim is taken into consideration and
depravity of the accused person’s mental state is also taken into
consideration while sentencing him. I believe a sentence to imprisonment for
one and half year will suffice.

32)I have heard the accused on the quantum of sentence and the accused has
replied that he is an employee of BCPL and if he is sentenced to
imprisonment and fine, he will be dismissed from service.

33)According to my opinion, I do not think that this case needs to be
recommended to the Legal Services for compensation, because no overt act
took place.

SENTENCE:

34) I convict the accused Sri Pradip Handique under Section 12 of the POCSO Act
and sentence him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 1 1% year (one and
half year) and a fine of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand) only and in
default of payment of fine, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 2 (two)
months.

35)The period of detention already undergone by the accused during
investigation and trial is set off with his custodial sentence.

36) Furnish free copies of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.
Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 16™ day of
May, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
14

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 The victim X;
2. PW-2 Sri Rana Singh;
3. PW-3 Smti. Pori Singh;
4. PW-4 Smti. Pranami Hazarika;
5. PW-5 Sri Tapan Hazarika;
6. PW-6 Sri Sujoy Moran; and
7. PW-7 Sri Anjan Saikia.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Seizure-List;
4. Ext. 4 Charge-Sheet; and
5. Ext. 5 Extract copy of Lahoal Police Station GDE No. 182 dtd. 08-03-16.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
