CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 61/16

Informant: Smt. Bhagya Tanti,
W/o- Sri Lal Tanti,
R/o- Natun Line, Lakribam Tea Estate,
PS- Tingkhong,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Suresh Paharia,
S/o- Sri Chutu Paharia,
R/o- Natun Line, Lakribam Tea Estate,
PS- Tingkhong,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri Uttam Rough, learned Legal Aid Counsel.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH
Present: Smt. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 61/16
G.R. Case No. 2539/16

State of Assam
-Vs-
Sri Suresh Paharia
Charges: Under Section 6, read with Section 5(I) and j(ii) of POCSO Act,
read with Section 376 IPC.
Date of evidence on : 08-02-17, 15-06-17, 18-07-17, 18-12-17 and 09-08-18.

Date of argument : 31-10-18.
Date of Judgment —_: 14-11-18.

JUDGMENT

1) Prosecution case in a narrow compass is that Sri Suresh Paharia (hereinafter
the accused) had an illicit relationship with the victim 'X' and impregnated her
and she was carrying for three months when this FIR was lodged by her
mother Smt. Bhagya Tanti (hereinafter the informant). The FIR was
registered as Tingkhong PS Case No. 109/16 under Section 4 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO for short) and SI Upen Chandra
Bora was endorsed with the investigation.

2) The investigating officer (IO for short) embarked upon the investigation. He
went to the place of occurrence, prepared the Sketch-Map and recorded the
statements of the witnesses. He forwarded the victim to the Magistrate who
recorded her statement under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
(CrPC for short). The victim was also forwarded for medical examination. On
finding prima facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused

person under Section 6 of POCSO Act and Section 376 of the Indian Penal
3)

4)

)

6)

7)

Code (IPC for short).
On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
the sides, a formal charge under Section 6 of POCSO Act, read with Section
376 IPC was framed, read over and explained to the accused. The accused
abjured his guilt and claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of eight
witnesses including the medical officer (MO for short) and the IO and
exhibited several documents and the accused cross-examined the witnesses
to refute the charges.
On the inculpatory evidence arising against him, the answers of the accused
to the questions under Section 313 CrPC depicts a plea of total denial.
SUBMISSIONS:

The learned defence counsel laid stress in his argument that the age of the
victim is above 18 years according to Medico-legal Report. It is submitted that
after the pregnancy was disclosed, she falsely alleged the accused. The victim
concealed for a prolonged time who was her paramour. The statement of the
victim under Section 164 CrPC is contradictory to her evidence. The history of
the Medico-legal Report depicts that the victim has named Bablu Murah as
her paramour. The victim herself appears to be very confused who
impregnated her. The DNA test ought to have been done to ascertain the
father of the child. The learned Public Prosecutor Mrs. Runumi Devi and
learned Addl. Public Prosecutor Mrs. Sahnaz Akhtar emphasized through their
arguments that this case has been proved beyond reasonable doubt that the
accused has sired the child and he deserves stringent punishment.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

To decide the case in its proper perspective, the following points are apposite
for a just decision of this case:
i. Whether the accused committed rape on the victim 'X'?
ii. | Whether the accused committed aggravated sexual assault
on the victim 'X'?
DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

8) To properly adjudicate this case, it is necessary to delve into the evidence.

9) The informant Smt. Bhagya Tanti testified as PW-1 that the accused is her
neighbour and the victim is her daughter. About six months ago, her daughter
was not well and suspecting that she was suffering from Jaundice, they took
her to the tea garden hospital. After examination, the doctor informed her
that her daughter was pregnant and she was carrying for three months.
When she confronted her daughter, her daughter was terrified. On repeated
querries by the nurse, her daughter confided to the nurse that the accused
impregnated her. She was also present when her daughter informed the
nurse about the accused person. Her daughter is a minor and her age is 15
years. She arranged for a meeting and the accused was also present. Her
daughter stated that the accused impregnated her while the accused denied
that he impregnated her daughter. Then the villagers advised her to lodge
this case against the accused. The ejahar was written according to her
narrative, by a person who resides near Tingkhong Police Station. Her
daughter accompanied her to the police station and the police recorded her
statement and took her daughter to Assam Medical College & Hospital at
Dibrugarh for examination. Her daughter was also forwarded to the
Magistrate who recorded her statement. Her daughter was carrying for seven
months at the time of her deposition.

10) Her cross-examination is not noteworthy.
11) The victim 'X' testified as PW-2 that the accused is known to her. On the day
of incident, the accused called her to the house of Jukalbarik. Only an old
lady resides in the house. When she went to Jukalbarik’s house, the accused
undressed her and forcefully committed rape on her. When she resisted, the
accused threatened her with dire consequences. As she was terrified by his
threats, she did not inform her parents about the incident. When she missed
her menstrual period, she was feeling unwell and her mother took her to the
hospital. Her pregnancy was detected in the hospital. When her pregnancy
was detected, she disclosed before the Borbabu and the nurse that the
accused impregnated her. She also informed her mother, and the members
present in the meeting, that the accused committed rape on her forcefully.
Her mother lodged this case and she accompanied her mother to the police
station. She gave her statement to the police. She was also taken to Assam
Medical College & Hospital at Dibrugarh for medical examination and
forwarded to the Magistrate who recorded her statement.

12) The demeanour of the victim was recorded and the victim appears to be both
physically and mentally retarded. The statement of the victim under Section
164 CrPC was not exhibited. The prosecution failed to produce the Magistrate
as a witness. This is a major lapse on the prosecution side.

13) The learned defence counsel laid stress in his argument that the statement of
the victim under Section 164 CrPC reveals that the incident occurred in the
victim’s house in the absence of her parents. She informed her parents and
her family members on the same day despite the fact that the accused
threatened her to kill her if she disclosed about the incident. This statement
is contradictory to her testimony in the Court. When the prosecution failed to

exhibit the statement under Section 164 CrPC, a benefit of doubt goes to the
accused person. Moreover, the history of the victim before the MO reveals
that the victim also revealed another name along with the name of the
accused person. The victim has indicated Sri Bablu Murah as her assailant
before the MO. Ext. 4 is the Medico-legal Report and Ext. 4(1) upto Ext. 4(3)
are the signatures of the MO who examined the victim.
14)The MO Dr. Risha Goswami testified as PW-8 that on 07-09-16, she was
working as GDMO in the Department of Forensic Medicine, Assam Medical
College & Hospital at Dibrugarh. On that day, she examined the victim 'X' in
connection with this case and found the following:
On genital examination: Genital organs healthy. Vulva healthy.
Hymen: Old tear at 6 O’ clock position. Vaginal healthy. Cervix
healthy. Uterus not palpable clinically. Evidence of injury on her
body or private parts not detected at the time of examination.
Evidence of venereal disease not detected. Vaginal smear taken on
glass slides.
On radiological examination: Elbow joint shows epiphycal union
completed. Wrist joint shows epiphyscal union completed.
Shoulder joint shows epiphyscal union completed. Pelvis shoes iliac
crest is united. However, in her opinion, epiphyseal union around
iliac crest is not completed. USD obstrstrics showed a single viable
foetus is noted with variable presentation. Foetal perametres
correspond to gestational age of 16 weeks, 6 days. Foetal heart
rate measures 156 bits per minutes at the time of examination.
Liquor volume is adequate at the time of examination. Placenta is
located at fundus and body wall antero posteriorly. No gross foetal

anomalies noted. Active foetal movements noted.
15) According to her opinion, the age of the victim was 18 years and below 19
years.

16) After assessing the evidence of the MO and the victim, it is held that the
victim was a major and she was not so vulnerable despite the fact that she
appears to be retarded. The victim’s explanation that she was terrified of the
accused person, does not appear to be acceptable, because if she was
terrified to disclose about the incident, then she would be terrified to give
evidence against the accused person in the Court. When she deposed against
the accused in the Court, she bravely pointed him out as her assailant.
Moreover, there is no evidence of misconception of facts or cheating. The
evidence is shrouded by a cloud of mystery. The victim concealed about the
incident till she was detected with pregnancy of three months. Considering
the age of the victim, her consent to this relationship with the accused
person or to Sri Bablu Murah cannot be ruled out. In this manner, the
accused also gets a benefit of doubt. The old lady who resides at Jukalbarik’s
house or Jukalbarik were not produced as witnesses by the prosecution. This
also extends a benefit of doubt to the accused person. The victim has
described that she was sexually assaulted by the accused only once and she
became pregnant. The victim's evidence cannot be accepted as gospel truth.

17) Sri Janardan Tanti testified as PW-3 that both the accused and the victim are
known to him. The victim is his sister-in-law. One day, his sister Bhagya Tanti
informed him that his sister-in-law was pregnant for three months and when
he went to her house along with his wife, the victim informed him that the
accused impregnated her. So they arranged a meeting, but the accused did
not attend the meeting.

18) His statement is contradictory, because PW-1 testified that the accused was
present in the meeting and he denied that he impregnated her daughter.

19)Smt. Sita Tanti testified as PW-4 that the accused and the informant are
known to her. The incident occurred about two years ago. The victim's
mother informed her that the victim was pregnant.

20) This witness has not implicated the accused person.

21)Smt. Neha Tanti testified as PW-5 that both the accused and the victim are
known to her. The incident took place about 7/8 months back. At that time,
she accompanied the victim's mother along with the victim, because the
victim was pregnant and the accused impregnated her. When the accused
denied that he impregnated the victim, they went to the police station and
the informant lodged an ejahar against the accused. The police interrogated
her and the victim. At present, the victim is blessed with a daughter who
resides with her.

22) Similarly, Smt. Shivratri Tanti testified as PW-6 that the accused person is
known to her and the victim is her younger sister. The incident occurred
about two years ago. A meeting was held in her paternal house and she
attended the meeting. She was a married woman at that time. Initially, on
the first day, the accused did not attended the meeting, but on the second
day, the accused attended the meeting and denied that he impregnated her
younger sister. Then her sister initiated this case against the accused person.
Her sister is blessed with a daughter who is five months old. The police
recorded her statement and her sister's statement.

23)It is true that the accused may have impregnated the victim and may not
have married her, but the evidence of PW-2 and delay in lodgment of the FIR,
extends a benefit of doubt to the accused. The evidence of PW-2 depicts that

an old lady resides in Jukalbarik’s house. It is unfathomable how a man can
forcefully commit rape on a woman in presence of an old lady inside the
house. Moreover, if the accused had called her, why did the victim go to his
house if she was not a consenting party. As the evidence of the victim does
not inspire confidence, so the evidence of the other witnesses cannot be
accepted to rope in the accused person with the offence of sexual assault.
Moreover, the victim is over 18 years and the accused cannot be held liable
under Section 6 of POCSO Act.

24) The IO SI Upen Chandra Bora testified as PW-7 that on 06-09-16, he was
posted at Tingkhong Police Station as SI and on that day, the OC received an
FIR and endorsed him with the investigation of Tingkhong PS Case No.
109/16 under Section 4 of POCSO Act. Ext. 1 is the FIR and Ext. 1(2) is the
signature of Biswajit Sharma with which he is acquainted. He found the
victim and the informant in the police station and recorded their statements.
He also recorded the statements of the other witnesses who accompanied
them. On the next day, he forwarded the victim for medical examination. He
prepared the Sketch-Map of the place of occurrence. Ext. 2 is the Sketch-Map
and Ext. 2(1) is his signature.

25) At this stage, I would like to divert the attention towards the Sketch-Map. The
Sketch-Map depicts that the place of occurrence is the victim’s house which is
contrary to the statement of the victim, because she testified that the place
of occurrence was Jukalbarik’s house. The IO further testified that he met the
accused in his house and forwarded him to the jail. He obtained the Medico-
legal Report and forwarded the victim to the Magistrate who recorded her
statement under Section 164 CrPC. He finally submitted Charge-Sheet against
the accused person under Section 4 of POCSO Act, read with Section 376

IPC.
10

26) It has already been held in my foregoing discussions that the evidence of the
victim does not inspire confidence. There are too many contradictions in the
statement of the victim regarding the place of occurrence. The IO has
depicted another place of occurrence in the Sketch-Map. The delay in
lodgment of the FIR is another discrepancy in this case.

27) Considering the fact that this case is fraught with discrepancies and replete
with contradictions, the accused is given a benefit of doubt. It is held that the
prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused
committed rape on the victim by forcefully having sexual intercourse with her
against her will and without her consent, or by inducement with
misconception of facts.

28) As the victim is above 18 years, the accused is also not held guilty of offence
under Section 6 of POCSO Act. Thereby, the accused Sri Suresh Paharia is
acquitted from the charges under Sections 6, read with Section 5(I) and j(ii)
of POCSO Act, read with Section 376 IPC on benefit of doubt and is set at
liberty forthwith.

29) The victim who has undergone such an ordeal, deserves compensation. This
case is thereby recommended for compensation to the District Legal Services
Authority, Dibrugarh to decide the quantum of compensation to be awarded
to the victim under the Assam Victim Compensation Scheme, 2012.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 14" day of

November, 2018.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Contd.
11

APPENDIX
POCSO Case No. 61/16

List of witnesses for prosecution:
1. PW-1 Smt. Bhagya Tanti;
2. PW-2 The victim 'X';
3. PW-3 Sri Janardan Tanti;
4. PW-4 Smt. Sita Tanti;
5. PW-5 Smt. Neha Tanti;
6. PW-6 Smt. Shivratri Tanti;
7. PW-7 SI Upen Chandra Bora; and
8. PW-8 Dr. Risha Goswami.
List of exhibits for prosecution:
1. Ext. 1 Ejahar;
2. Ext. 2 Sketch-Map;
3. Ext. 3 Charge-Sheet; and
4. Ext. 4 Medico-legal Report.
List of material exhibits for prosecution: Nil.
List of witnesses for defence: Nil.

List of exhibits for defence: Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
