4

5
i
. : ; IN THE SPECIAL COURT, BAKSA sissuisninnnunnunnnnunnuiiiss: AT MUSHALPUR

 

Present : Shri C. Das
Sessions Judge

Baksa, Mushalpur

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO.24/2018(OLD NO.5/16)
u/s 4 of POCSO Act r/w Section 366(A)/506/109 IPC

State
-versus-

1. Md. Sahar Ali
2. Ms. Jahanara Khatun

... Accused

Appearance :
For the State : Mr. R. Chetry, Public Prosecutor, Baksa

For the accused: Mr. A. Kayum, W. Rahman, Advocates

Date of evidence recorded : 21.11.16, 21.2.17, 18.5.17, 31.5.17, 18.7.17
Date of argument: 5.7.19, 17.8.19, 31.8.19
Date of judgment : 7.9.19

JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution briefly, is that on 8.8.16, the
complainant Md.Abdul Rahman Khan lodged a FIR before the Officer-in-charge of
Salbari police station, alleging inter-alias that about 5 /6 months back, at the
conspiracy and assistance of the accused Ms. Jahanara Khatun, the accused Sahar
Ali eloped his 11 years old daughter/ victim girl{(name is withheld) by inducement to
JudgeSpi Court the river bank of ‘Palla’ river where her mouth was gagged and under threatening,
Baksa Mushe’. _the accused Sahar Ali committed sexual intercourse with her against her will. AFter

two days, the accused Ms.Jahanara Khatun called the accused Sahar Ali to her

home and after keeping him inside her home, the accused Ms.Jahanara Khatun

called the victim girl to her house and locked the door of her house after putting

the victim girl inside. The accused Sahar Ali on that day also, committed sexual
   

Judes

Baksa M

ush.

~ intercourse with the victim girl against her will and threatened her not to disclose it

to others or otherwise, he will take her life. At present, the victim girl is pregnant
which he came to know about 10 /15 day back. He stated that there was delay in
lodging the FIR since the local public wanted to settle the matter amicably.

2. Accordingly, the police registered the Salbari Ps, Case No.76/2016
and started its investigation. During the investigation, 1/O visited the place of
occurrence, drew up its sketch map and examined the witnesses. Further, !/O sent
the victim girl for medical examination and For recording her statement u/s 164
CrPC. At the end of investigation, I/O submitted the charge-sheet against the
accused Sahar Ali to Face trial in the court. During the trial, the accused Ms.
Jahanara Khatun was arrayed as an accused in the case by invoking Section 319

CrPC due to material Found against her and summons was issued against her.

3. The accused persons when appeared in the court, they were
Furnished with the copy of the case immediately. After hearing of both parties and
on perusing the material on record, the charge u/s 366(A)/506 IPC r/w Section 4 of
POCSO Act was framed against the accused Sahar. Ali while the charge u/s
366(A)/109 IPC was Framed against the accused Ms. Jahanara Khatun. The charge
so Framed, was read over and explained to the accused persons who pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution during the trial, examined as many as, 8(eight)
witnesses including I/O and M/O to support its case. The accused persons in the
statement recorded u/s 313 CrPC., denied all incriminating circumstances appeared
against them in the evidence. The accused persons however, declined to adduce
any evidence in defence. The argument of the parties was heard at length and the
evidence on record was perused. Also, the written argument of the defence was

perused.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

5. Whether on or about 5/ 6 months back before lodging the ejahar on

* 8.8.16, at Dhekiyajani gaon under Salbari police station of Baksa district, the

accused Sahar Ali kidnapped the victim girl and daughter of informant Md. Abdul
Rahman Khan, a minor girl under the age of 18 years with intent that the said victim
may be or knowing that it is likely that, the said victim will be Forced or seduced to

illicit intercourse with another person;
Judge Oo: Court
3aksa Mushalour

6. Whether on same date, time and place as above, the accused Sahar
Ali committed criminal intimidation by threatening the victim girl with threat to

cause death;

7. Whether on same date, time and place as above, the accused Sahar

Ali committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl;

8. Whether on same date, time and place as above, the accused Ms.
Jahanara Khatun abated to kidnap the victim girl, a minor girt under the age of 18
years with the intent that the said victim girl will be Forced or seduced to illicit

intercourse with another person;

DICISION AND REASON THEREFORE :

9. Learned Public Prosecutor initiating the argument of the case,
submitted that it is a case of sexual assault upon a victim girl who is apparently, a
minor girl. Hence, the version of the victim girl ought to be relied upon since she is
not an accomplice of the offence with the accused persons. He further submitted
that the evidence of the victim couple with the evidence of other prosecution
witnesses including the complainant and medical evidence ,makes it clear that the
accused persons are involved in the crime as alleged against them. Therefore, the

accused persons may be convicted under the proper provisions of law, he urged.

10. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the accused persons
submitted inter-alias that the very notion of the POCSO Act requires the
investigation agency to follow the legal norms that the victim being a minor, should
not be exposed to what was happened to her in a case of sexual assault and to
abstain From calling the victim to police station to ask question in absence of her
parents or relative and Further an ASI can not investigate such a heinous offence if
he is not authorized by Govt., of Assam. He alleged that on the basis of statement
u/s 164 CrPC., the I/O covered up all the allegations but did not ask any question
regarding Ms. Jahanara Khatun and did not prepare sketch map of the place of
occurrence where it occurred and time of occurrence was not ascertained. I/O
threw the whole case to the victim to prove her case and there is serious lapse on
the part of I/O by willfully avoided to follow the mandate of law. It is submitted
that gross negligence committed by M/O by not expressing any opinion of

pregnancy of 11 years oid victim girl and without determining her age. There was
 

Judge o.. Court
Baksa Mushalo +

no effort to prove the paternity of the child of the victim girl and thus, 5/ 6 months
of pregnancy of the victim is very doubtful without any DNA test. The accused Ms.
Jahanara Khatun was unnecessarily dragged into the case and the charge u/s 366-
A/109 IPC is not at all proved against her. He submitted that the accused Ms.
Jahanara Khatun is the own aunt of the victim girl but as because said accused did
not support the allegation labeled against the accused Sahar Ali in the local bichar, —
she was falsely implicated into the case on the ground that she assisted the
accused Sahar Ali amidst the denial by other 3/ 4 Pws. There is also, denial by I/O
that the informant and the victim in their statement u/s 161 CrPC., did not depose
all the allegations made. It is submitted that there is no evidence on record to
support the case of victim, only one solitary evidence is given by victim is barred u/s
134 of Evidence Act as there is a comment that evidence has a ring truth is cogent
and trustworthy but in this case, the victim Failed to give a date of occurrence and
at and when she was rapped. As the informant and the victim produced a false birth
certificate from Barpeta Municipal Board although they are permanent residents of
Baksa district under BTAD but not under Barpeta district. tt is just to conceal her

age and brought a false case.

11. Further, learned counsel for the accused persons submitted that the
prosecution is to make out a clear case against the accused persons so that after
hearing the parties, the court can take reasonable view for ends of justice that
offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act was committed against the victim girl. It is submitted
that I/O of the case violated all the norms and procedure of law while conducting
the investigation and due to irregularity committed by |/O, the case of the
prosecution is hit by section 461 CrPC., and as such, the accused persons cannot be
convicted. He further submitted that the FIR was lodged after 5/ 6 months without
explaining the reasonable cause. The whole story of False allegation arises only
when a village meeting was arranged against the informant of the case and his son
regarding theft of money from the house of the accused Sahar Ali and then, the
informant under instruction of some conspirators, made out this false and
concocted case and later on, tried their level best to involve the accused persons. It
is pointed out that in the FIR, it was mentioned that none was present when the
victim girl went to river side to take bath at about 2 pm and on her return, the
accused Sahar Ali caught her hand and committed rape on her in the jungle. But in
the sketch map, I/O denied that there was any jungle on the both side of the river
‘Palla’. Due to old grudge, the victim tried her level best to prove presence of the
accused Ms. Jahanara Khatun at the river bank. He submitted that the informant

and the victim brought out an absurd story that at the period of 6 months of
pregnancy, her mother with grand mother asked about her bulky belly when she
disclosed about the story of 6 months old incident. Thus, till 6 months of

 

pregnancy, the victim did not disclose the incident to anybody. The mother is the
best person to notice health condition of her daughter but till 6 months, she never
asked her victim/ daughter regarding illegal pregnancy of the victim. This will
indicate that they all knew well about the man who was responsible For her illegal
pregnancy but just to save themselves from the offence of theft of the case of
accused Sahar Ali, the informant and victim made out this false and concocted case
against the accused persons. If the evidence of other prosecution witnesses is
perused, it will show that they stated that after arising of theft case, it was come to
know regarding pregnancy of the victim in the village meeting. PW3 and 4 did not
support the case of the informant and the victim. The very circumstances proved
that the case of the victim is False and concocted against the accused persons as
none of the villagers and family members of the informant supports the informant
and even they do not know the illegal pregnancy of the victim girl by whom she got
pregnant. The statement of the victim as PW2 u/s 161/164 CrPC seemed to be
tutored by some other person just to make out a False and concocted case against
the accused persons. The victim girl claimed herself as 11 years old at the time of
occurrence and she along with other Family members kept silence which indicates
that some other was responsible for pregnancy and there may be a secret
conspiracy not to disclose his name rather try to involve accused Sahar Ali since the
informant and his son involved in theft case filed by the accused Sahar Ali and his
father. Besides, it is submitted that the parents of the victim were well aware of
the fact as it is a general perception that mother is the first person to notice
change of figure of the victim's body, her menstrual period and pregnancy if any,
within 2/ 3 months but herein, till 6 months of the pregnancy of the victim, why the
informant as well as, the mother or grand mother of the victim did not disclose the
Fact to the society, is not known. The evidence of the victim is not reliable to
believe since her house was at a distance of 50 meters from her house white her
house inmates did not support her version. PW2 the victim girl omitted to mention
vital part of her case before I/O. PW3, 4, 5 and 6 does not lend support to the

Judge Cou {prosecution case. Hence, he urged to acquit the accused persons.
Baksa Mushalour

12. After hearing the above submissions advanced by learned counsel
For the parties, it is proper to go through the evidence on record. It appears that
the prosecution examined the complainant Md. Abdul Rahman Khan as PW1. He is
admittedly the father of the victim girl. He stated that on the Fateful day reported

him that about 5/6 months back, one day, while she was returning home after
   

Judes Spi Court
Saksa Mushalour

taking a bath at Palla river, the accused Sahar Ali called her but she did not hear it.
Then, the accused Jahanara Khatun told her that the accused Sahar Ali called her.
Thereafter, the accused Sahar Ali came and gagged her mouth and Forcefully took
her into nearby jungle and committed sexual intercourse with the victim. He stated
Further that after 2 days, the accused Jahanara Khatun called the victim girl to her
home and dragged into her house in a room and closed the door from outside. In
the room the victim girl found the accused Sahar Ali was sitting. When the victim
raised hue and cry, the accused Sahar Ali threatened her to cut off her neck and
thereafter, the accused Sahar Ali again committed sexual intercourse with the
victim Forcefully. After 5/ 6 months, the victim reported the incident to his wife and
mother-in-law. Hence, he came to know about the incident. He called a local bichar
before village headman; Jaharuddin and others. The village headman called a
bicher but the accused and his Father did not pay any attention. Thereafter, as per
village headman instruction, he reported the matter to some elderly persons of the
village who asked the accused and father to come to bichar but they did not
response to it. So he was advised to file a case. According to PW1, the victim girl
was studying in LP school at the time of occurrence and as per her birth certificate,
her date of birth was 1.3.2005. the victim girl gave birth to a male child one month
back.

13. In the cross-examination, PW1 stated that the river ‘Palla’ is situated
at a distance of 100 meters from his house. He did not mention that date and time
when the victim went to take bath on the river. On way to river, from his house and
the house of the accused, there is no house of any person since on the both sides, it
was paddy Field. He came to know about the incident from the victim girl. He Filed
the case after 15 days, after knowing the incident From victim girl. He had not filed
any document to show that village headman and elderly persons of his village who
made endevour to settle the matter.

14. PW2 is the victim girl. She is the daughter of PW1. She stated inter-
alias that the house of the accused Sahar Ali can be reached after crossing 4
houses. She stated Further that on the fateful day, at about 2 pm., she went alone
to take a bath at ‘Palla’ river. While she was returning there from, the accused Sahar
Ali called her. At that time, the accused Jahanara was working nearby. Hence, the
accused Jahanara asked to go near to the accused Sahar Ali. In the meantime, the
accused came near her and caught her hand. The accused Sahar Ali forcibly took her
towards nearby jungle. She started to shout to her mother and as such, her mouth

was gagged by the accused Sahar. The accused Sahar committed sexual intercourse
“?

JuEge

3aksa

 

with her forcefully after removing her cloths. Hence, she told that she will report to
her mother. In reply, the accused Sahar told that he will kill her if she disclosed it.
Hence, she returned to her home. Out of fear of the accused Sahar Ali, she did not
disclose the incident to anybody. After two days of the said occurrence, while she
was standing in front of her house, the accused Jahanara called her to the house.
When she entered into the house, the accused Jahanara closed the door of the
house. She saw the accused Sahar Ali inside the house of the accused Jahanara
Khatun. On that day, the accused Sahar Ali committed forceful sexual intercourse
with her. Thereafter, the accused Sahar Ali left her there. Later on, the accused
Jahanara Khatun opened the door of the house and she reported the incident to
Jahanara. But the accused Jahanara Khatun told her that the accused Sahar Ali will
be made son-in-law by her mother and to enter to quarrel as well as, she will be

beaten up and so, she did not disclose it to anybody. After 4/5 months, her mother

_ and grand mother asked her why her belly was inflated and changed of her health.

- ., ourt
Mushalour

Then, she disclosed the entire incident to them. The informant also, came to know
it. Thereafter, her parents informed the incident to local head-men who examined
her also. Local called the accused Sahar Ali and Sadique Ali but they did not turn up.
Hence, her Father filed the case. About 5 months back, she gave birth to a male
child. Due to sexual intercourse committed by the accused, she became pregnant.
She was born in 2005. Ext.1 is her birth certificate. She was medically examined by
the police. Her menstrual period was continued till sexual intercourse committed
by the accused Sahar Ali. She did not submit the certificate of birth of her child.

15. In the cross-examination, PW2 stated that ‘Palla’ river was existed at
a distance of 50 meters From her house. There was no house in between her house
and ‘Palla’ river. While she was taking bath, there was none present near her. Local
people cultivated near the river. She could not raise alarm due to gagging of her
mouth by the accused Sahar Ali. She had a brother namely; Shahjahan. A jocal bichar
held in her villager in connection with theft of money of accused Sahar Ali by
Shahjahan.

16. The evidence of PW3 Musstt. Hasina Khatun @ Hasna is that she has
no know anything about the alleged occurrence. Thus, the evidence of this witness

does not come to help the prosecution.

17. PW4 Sekandar Ali deposed that he did not know anything about the
alleged occurrence. After Filing of this case, he heard From locat villagers that the

accused Sahar Ali committed sexual intercourse with PW2 and as a result, she
became pregnant and delivered a child. Hence, the evidence of PW4 needs no any
attention. He simply supports the prosecution case.

 

18. PWS5 Md. Rahmat Ali Khan was also, dectared hostile. But he stated
that on the day of occurrence, he heard that there was a sexual relation between
the accused Sahar Ali and Pw2. At present, PW2 is residing at her parental home.
Thus, the evidence of PWS is Found to be hearsay type.

19. PW6 Dr. Anima Boro deposed inter-alias that on 10.8.16, at FAAMCH,
Barpeta, she examined PW2 with reference to this case being escorted by police
and found the history that PW2 was sexually assaulted by Sahar Ali and she also,
alleged 5 months pregnancy. On physical examination, she found that no stain
detected on her wearing garments and no injury detected. On genitalia examination,
she Found that hymen was torn, vagina admitted two fingers and uterus palpable for
5 months pregnancy, fourchetee and perineum- normal. Vaginal swabs collected from
posterior formix. Result of vaginal swab smear examination shows no spermatozoa is
seen on microscopic examination of vaginal swab slides. X-ray report found.
Ultrasonography advised and result shows pregnancy for 28 weeks 2 days.

Opinion of PW6 is that 7. There was no recent sign of sexual intercourse, but
victim is accustomed to sexual intercourse;
2. There was no sign detected as regards to any sign of penetration of penis into
vagina/ mouth/ urethra/ anus ;
3. There was no sign of insertion of any object or any part of body into
vagina/mouth/urethra/ anus ;
4. There was no sign of manipulation of body of the victim so as to cause penetration
into vagina/ urethra/ anus or any part of the body of the victim;
5. There was no sign detected as to application of mouth into vagina/ urethra or anus
of the victim ;
6. There was no injury found on the body of the victim;
7. the victim was found not suffering from any disability ;
8. There was no foreign particle like semen, blood, hair etc., found on the body of the
victim ;
9. As there was no x-ray report, actual age of the victim could not be ascertained;

Judae Sar Court 70. The victim was found pregnant for 24 weeks gestation.
Baksa Mushalour

20. Accordingly, PW6 submitted the medical report of PW2 vide Ext.1
with her signature. Thus, the evidence of PW6 that she examined PW2 is Found not

in dispute neither her Finding on PW2 is challenged. Apparently PW2 was medically
 

PW2 was found accustomed to sexual intercourse. Thus, it means that PW2 had sex
habitually.

21. The evidence of PW7, I/O of the case is that on 8.8.16, the informant
filed a FIR before Salbari police station and after register of a case, he was
endorsed to investigate the case. Accordingly, he visited the place of occurrence
and vide Ext.2, he drew up its sketch map. He examined PW2 and sent her for
medical examination and for recording her statement u/s 164 CrPC vide Ext.3. he

could not Find out the accused.

22. In the cross-examination, I/O stated that as per Ext.2, the place of
occurrence was jungle at the bank of ‘Palla’ river. Both the sides of the river was
covered with jungle. There was no house near the house of the informant. He
denied that PW2 stated to him earlier that she went alone to take bath and the
accused Jahanara was working near the river and asked to go as accused Sahar Ali
called her and her cloths were removed and if she tell the incident to her parents
the accused Jahanara will enter into quarrel and after 4/5 months, when her belly
was inflated, her mother and grand mother asked her about it and she told them
the incident. He did not cause For DNA test.

23. Further, another I/O, PW8, deposed inter-alias that on 8.8.16, while
he was working at Salbari police station, he received the FIR from PW1 through
SDPO, Salbari and accordingly, he registered the case no.76/16 u/s 120-B/376/506
IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act and he endorsed the investigation to PW7. Ext.4 is
the said FIR with thump impression of PW1. After investigation, PW7 handed over
the case diary to him. He perused the case diary and again, he visited the place of
occurrence led by PW1 and 2. At the place of occurrence, he noticed that other
sides of river was easy to see and as such, he searched and recorded statement of -
other witnesses from other side of the river. He collected the medical report of the
victim who was carrying 24 weeks pregnancy. He arrested the accused Sahar Ali.

After completion of the investigation, he Filed the charge-sheet against the accused

  

. . _ persons vide Ext.5 with his signature. He did not collect the original birth certificate
Ju: Eb ket ee rit
Baksa -* ushatour™ the victim.
24, In the cross-examination, PW8 stated that he did not seize anything
during the investigation. Except the LP school certificate, no other document was

Found relating to age of the victim. He did not examine Head master of school of
10

the victim.

 

25. Thus, from the evidence of the prosecution witnesses so tendered in
the case, it appears that there is no dispute that the victim girl was pregnant For 24
weeks gestation at the time of medical examination. Admittedly, the medical
examination was performed after 4/ 5 months of the occurrence. Apparently, the
evidence of PW11 is not direct evidence and as such, his evidence cannot be place
reliable. Further the evidence of PW3 does not lend any support to the prosecution
case, Although PW4 lends support to the prosecution story, his evidence is hearsay
type and as such his evidence cannot be taken into consideration. Similarly, PW5
tenders hearsay evidence about the occurrence and as such, such evidence does

not come to help the prosecution case.

26. Hence, PW2 is the most important prosecution witness. In case of
offence of sexual assault, Hon'ble Supreme Court in respect of appreciation of
evidence of the victim, observed in AIR 1996 SC 1393 State of Punjab vs. Gurmit
Singh & ors., that The court while appreciating the evidence of a prosecutrix may
look for some assurance of her statement to satisfy its judicial conscience,
since she is a witness who is interested in the outcome of the charge levelled
by her, but there is no requirement of law to insist upon corroboration of her
statement to base conviction of an accused. The evidence of a victim of
sexual assault stands almost on a par with the evidence of an injured witness
and to an extent is even more reliable. Just as a witness who has
sustained some injury in the occurrence, which is not found to be self-inflicted,
is considered to be a good witness in the sense that he is least likely to shield
the real culprit, the evidence of a victim of a sexual offence is entitledto great
weight, absence of corroboration notwithstanding. Corroborative evidence is
not an imperative component of judicial credence in every case of rape.
Corroboration as a condition for judicial reliance on the testimony of the
prosecutrix is not a requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under
given circumstances. It must not be overlooked that @ woman or a girl
subjected to sexual assault is not an accomplice to the crime but is a victim of
another person's lust and it is improper and undesirable to test her evidence

{

ro

+, Court ‘ . 7s ; . .
_ ae with a certain amount of suspicion, treating her as if she were an accomplice.
ym Dees we = +

a Musnaic . . .
aes inferences have to be drawn from a given set of facts and circumstances with

realistic diversity and not dead uniformity lest that type of rigidity in the shape
of rule of law is introduced through a new form of testimonial tyranny making

justice a casualty. Courts cannot cling to a fossil formula and insist upon
 

een Curt

Raksa Nueh

11

corroboration even if, taken as a whole, the case spoken of by the victim of sex

crime strikes the judicial mind as probable.

eT. On perusal of the evidence of PW2, it is clear that she did not
disclose the incident for about 4/ 5 months to anybody. When her mother and
grand mother noticed her inflated belly, she disclosed the entire story of sexual
intercourse by the accused Sahar Ali. According to her, she was sexually assaulted
by the accused Sahar Ali twice out of which the First incident was taken place at the
river side jungle and secondly, in the house of the accused Jahanara Khatun. Her |
claim is that both the accused threatened her not to disclose the incident and as
such, she remained mum till inquired by her mother and grand mother about her
inflated belly. The evidence of PW2 discloses that she had menstrual period prior to
the occurrence. Thus, it means that if she was pregnant after the incident caused by
the accused Sahar Ali, her menstrual period will stop immediately after one month
of the occurrence. But it was neither noticed by her mother or grand mother. Her
mother and grand mother was not examined by the prosecution to clarify the same.
The period of 4/ 5 months as stated by PW2, is Found too long to notice of her
pregnancy by her mother and grand mother to detect her pregnancy. Thus, on this

respect, the evidence of PW2 does not pose confidence to rely upon.

28. Further, PW2 claims that she did not disclose the incident to
anybody till detected by her mother and grand mother after 4/ 5 months, was due
to threatening given by the accused Sahar Ali For taking her life and secondly, by
the accused Jahananra Khatun for enter into quarrel with her parents. But at the
first instance, the accused Jahanara Khatun did not threaten her. Inspite of that,
she again visited the house of the accused Jahanara Khatun at her call after two
days of First incident. At the same time, it comes to notice that the accused
Jahanara was present at the time of First incident. In other words, both the accused
threatened her at the first incident. Therefore, visiting for second time to the
house of the accused Jahanara creates doubt over the version of PW2 if she was

really threatened by the accused persons.

29. IF the sequence of event of the case continues, it comes to notice
that PW2 got the second threatening From the accused Jahanara after second
sexual intercourse by the accused Sahar Ali in her house. Therefore, PW2 remained
silent For over 4 /5 months. From her version, if her mother and grand mother did
not inquire about her inflated belly, PW2 would not disclose it anybody till possibly
her delivery of a baby. But that was not happened. PW1, her Father took up the
12

      

a
‘
j
ode

winitiative to disclose the matter to local villagers instead of approaching to legal
° action. Further, it appears that PW2 in her version, did not say anything about the
period in between the last incident or the second incident at the house of the
accused Jahanara Khatun to her disclosure of incident as a whole to her parents.
She neither said anything of meeting of accused persons during that period nor
approached accused Jahanara Khatun to inform her pregnancy. But after
knowledge of her parents about the incident of the case, PW2 could dare and
regain her strength to disclose even to the village head men about the incidents.
Thus, after going through the evidence of PW2 with PW1, it does not inspire

confidence to rely their version.

30. PW2 stated that she gave birth to a child in the hospital. The medical

evidence discloses that PW2 was found pregnant at the time of examination for 24

weeks gestation. Perhaps, after medical examination, PW2 delivered the child. It

appears that PW2 claims that her child is belonged to the accused Sahar Ali. But I/O

admitted that DNA test of the child of PW2 with the accused Sahar Ali was not

conducted. Hence, it is a major lapse in the investigation. In absence of proper

evidence, it is difficult to accept that the child of PW2 owned by the accused Sahar

Ali. Moreover, PW2 claims that she was 11 years of age at the relevant time. She

produced her birth certificate vide Ext.1. as per the birth certificate, the date of

birth of PW2 was 1.3.200S. But it was obtained on 16.8.12 which is after 7 years.

The occurrence took place in 2016 in the months of March/ April’ 2016. hence, it

does not seem that the birth certificate of PW2 in connection with the occurrence.

Thus, from the birth certificate of PW2, it appears that PW2 was 11 years and more.

But her evidence discloses that she started to have menstrual period prior to the

incident. IF the fact was that, then, PW2 got her puberty before she attained to 11

years of age which does not seem natural. In that case, to remove such confusion,

medical examination report regarding the age of PW2 ought to have obtained. But

the evidence of PW6 shows that she advised for x-ray of the victim girl but report

was not submitted to ascertain the age of the victim girl. Apparently, the medical

examination of PW2 confined only to her pregnancy test. Thus, in absence pf

> proper evidence, it is difficult to accept that PW2 was 11 years of age at the time of

Bete Soy Co occurrence and she could able to give birth to a child at that age. Therefore, it could

Baksa fush:- not be ascertained that if PW2 is a child within the meaning of Section 2(d) of
POCSO Act due to lack of reliable evidence.

31. So far as, the delay in Filing of the FIR, PW1 admitted that he took
about 15 days to File the FIR before police after knowing the incident as divulged by
  
 

Judea’ Sm Court
gaksa Mushalour,

13

. ap PW2. It appears that PW2 already delayed to take the help of law. That apart, PW1

took another 15 days time. He discloses that he intimated the incident to local head
men to a decision who called the accused Sahar Ali and examined PW2. Since the
accused Sahar Ali did not turn up before local head men, he filed the FIR. This part
of delay is duly explained but the previous part of delay caused by PW2 where she
kept the entire incident under secret for long 4/ 5 months, is not reliable to believe.
The ground of threatening as alleged by PW2 to her by the accused persons is also,
not inspired confidence to rely upon since she inflated belly was noticed only after
4/5 months by her mother and grand mother. But her pregnancy could have
discovered by her mother only in the first month of her pregnancy. Thus, due to
such discrepancies in the evidence, it seems that PW1 and 2 conceals some real
facts of incident and as such it is not safe to rely such evidence. Moreover, the
evidence of PW2 does not disclose any material to hold that the accused Sahar Ali
induced her to go from her home with the intent that she will be Forced or seduced
to illicit intercourse with another person. Similarly, since the offence u/s 366-A IPC.,
is not proved, the act of abetting the said offence by the accused Jahanara Khtun
does not arise to attract the offence and to implicate her u/s 109 IPC. Apart From
the above, From the previous discussion, it is already Found that the evidence of
PW2 does not inspire confidence to hold that she was threatened by the accused
persons as provided u/s 506 IPC.

32. There is also, no direct reliable evidence to hold that the accused
Sahar Ali is the Father of the child of PW2. The medical evidence supports the claim
of PW2 only to the extent of her pregnancy but not more about any sexual assault.
It is true that since PW2 was found pregnant medically, she was subjected to sexual
intercourse. But normal intercourse cannot be held as penetrative sexual assault
upon her as medical evidence does not lend any support to it. Hence, there is doubt
if PW2 was subjected to penetrative sexual assault. In absence of proper evidence,
it cannot be ascertained the culpability of mental state of the accused Sahar Ali For
committing the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act. Due to discrepancies appears in the
evidence of the prosecution witnesses particularly the version of PW2, the accused
persons are entitled to get the benefit of doubt. Accordingly, the accused persons
are given the benefit of doubt.

Under the above facts and circumstances of the case, the
prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused persons beyond all
reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the accused persons are held not guilty u/s 366-
A/109 IPC r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act and they are acquitted and set at liberty. The
14

bail bond of the accused persons shall however, remain in force u/s 437-A CrPC.

 

Forward a copy of judgment to the District Magistrate, Baksa, Mushalpur. This court
recommends payment of compensation to the victim person u/s 3S7 CrPC., by
DLSA, Baksa district.

34. Given under the hand and seal of this court on this 7° day of
September 2019.

Dictated and corrected by:

C. Das;
Judge, Special Court < Judge, Spettatéourt
Baerdiushashal:. - Raksa Museitaio. ;
Typed by:

P. Deka, Com. Typist
 

Ge af
Gwe. 5
mong «yf? ANNEXURE :
S aaSk py
etna

15

List of prosecution witness:

PW1 ..
PW2 ...

PW3
Pw4

PW5 ..
PW6..

PW7

. Md. Abdul Rahman Khan ... complainant

victim girl (name withheld)

... Msstt. Hasina @ Hasna Khatun
... Md, Sakendar Ali

. Md. Rahmat Ali Khan

. Dr. Anima Boro ... m/o

... Sri Naren Bora ... I/o

PWs ...

Md. Rafiqul Hassan Choudhury ... I/o

List of defence witness:

Nil

List of documents exhibited :

Ext.1... medial report

Ext.2...
EXt.3 ...
Ext.4...
Ext.5 ..

sketch map
petition of i/o for statement of victim u/s 164 CrPC
FIR

. charge-sheet

 
