1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present : Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 18/2017 corresponding to GR
Case No. 933/2017 & Khatkhati Police Station
Case No. 134/2017

Under Sections 363/376 IPC/ R/W 4 of the
POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus

Dilwar Hussain

Name of informant/complainant:

Musstt Mojiron Nessa

W/O Najimuddin

Dudu Colony

PS: Khatkhati

District: Karbi Anglong, Assam

Name of the accused person facing trial:

Dilwar Hussain

S/O Kabir Hussain

Vill- Dudu Colony

P.S: Khatkhati

District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.
Permanent Address:

Durga Bazar

PS: Badarpur

District: Karimganj
2|Page

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defence : Smti Kanika Biswas
Date fixed for Argument : 13.05.2019

Judgment pronounced & delivered on: 13.05.2019

JUDGMENT

1. It is a case of Kidnapping of a minor girl and
penetrative sexual assault on her alleged to have been

committed by the accused person.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 21.11.2017 the
informant named above lodged a written ejahar with
Khatkhati Police Station stating inter alia that on
20.11.2017 at 7:30 PM while her victim daughter having
age of 14 years was going to shop the accused took away
her forcibly and kept her somewhere concealed. On receipt
of written ejahar, Khatkhati Police Station registered a
criminal case under section 363 IPC and _ started
investigation. On completion of investigation, the charge
sheet was submitted under sections 363/376 IPC/4 of the
POCSO Act against the accused person. Hence the

prosecution has come up.

3. On completion of appearance of the present accused
person before the Court, copy was supplied to the accused
person. Having very carefully gone through submissions of
learned lawyers of both sides as well as case diary I found
that there was ground for presuming that that the accused
person committed the offenses under sections 363 of the
IPC/4 of the POCSO Act and accordingly, the charges were
framed. The particular of the offence charged was duly
3|Page

read over and explained to the accused person to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many as 1
(one) witness. The examination of the accused person
under section 313 CrPC is dispensed with. Plea of defense

is of total denial.

Points for determination

(i) Whether the present accused person on
20.11.2017 at about 07:30 PM at Dudu Colony
under Khatkhati Police Station kidnapped victim
from the possession of the informant who was

legal guardian?

(ii) Whether the accused on or after 20.11.2017
at about 07:30 PM at Dudu Colony or any other
place under Khatkhati Police Station or in any
other Police Station made penetrative sexual

assault upon the victim?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through verbal arguments
advanced by the learned counsels of both sides as well as

evidence on record.

PW-1 is the victim who has clearly stated in her
evidence that at the time of occurrence she completed 18
years and that she fled away with the accused on her
sweet will. Her evidence also shows that at present she is

mother of a child having age of 5(Five) months from the
4|Page

10.

side of the accused and that she desires to live with the

accused person as husband and wife.

The main ingredient for attracting any provision of the
POCSO Act, the victim must be a child which is defined
under section 2(d) of the POCSO Act that a person who is
below 18 years is called a child. In this case, no Birth
Certificate has been seized. The investigating Officer after
recovery of the victim got her medically examined. The
medical examination report shows that the victim is above
18 years. Evidence of the victim itself shows that she
obtained 18 years at the time of occurrence. It has been
stated in the FIR that at the time of occurrence the victim
was 14 years. Ext-2 is the statement of the victim girl
wherein the victim also stated that at the time of
occurrence she completed 18 years. Taking all aspects into
consideration, I am convinced that at the time of

occurrence the victim completed 18 years.

In the view of the discussion made above I find no case
under sections 363 IPC/ 4 of the POCSO Act is made out.

ORDER

 

In the result, I find that the prosecution has failed to
prove its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubt. Hence, accused is here by acquitted
from the charges brought against him and let him set at
liberty forthwith. Superintendent of the District Jail, Karbi
Anglong, is asked to release the accused person if he is not
wanted in any other case. Inform him accordingly.

Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.
5|Page

11. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this 13"
May, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi Anglong,
