IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE :::: SIVASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions J udge cum Special J udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 13 of 2015, U/ S 6 of POCSO Act 2012
(Arising out of Demow P.S. Case No. 132/2015)

State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Huntu Chutia @ Beka ............. Accused

APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
For the accused Mr. Ajit Gogoi, Advocate
Date of framing Charge: 13.10.2015
Dates of Evidence 14.07.2016, 01.08.2017, 15.11.2017,

27.02.2018
Date of S/D 20.04.2018
Date of Argument 17.05.2018
Date of J udgment 31.05.2018

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 25.05.2015, informant Smt.

Dipa Taye Gogoi, wife of Sri Baba Gogoi of Koibotra Doloni Gaon, Demow
lodged an FIR with O/C, Demow P.S. alleging, inter alia, that on 16.04.2015, at
about 6 PM, accused Huntu Chutia came to her residence and took her
daughter victim ‘J' (name withheld) with him for dancing Bihu at Haluwating
Gaon and while taking her through the field, accused misbehaved and
attempted to commit misdeed on her. It is also alleged that accused threatened

the victim not to divulge the matter to anybody else.

Spl (P) Case No. 13 of 2015 Page 1 of 10
2. On receipt of the FIR, Demow P.S. Case No. 132/2015, U/S 12 of
POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and started investigation. During investigation,
victim was medically examined and recorded her statement in the court U/S
164 Cr.P.C. Accused was arrested and produced him before this court for
judicial custody. However vide order dated 18.06.2015, accused was allowed to
go on bail. Upon completion of investigation, 1.0. has submitted Charge-Sheet
against the above named accused person U/S 12 of POCSO Act 2012.

3. After receipt of Charge Sheet, cognizance of offence is taken and
presence of accused was secured. Copy of relevant papers were furnished to
him and after hearing both the sides, vide order dated 13.11.2015, the then
learned presiding officer has framed charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 against
the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to stand trial. During
trial, prosecution has examined seven witnesses including the victim and

informant.

4, On completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial and false implication.
Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was called upon to enter into

defence..

Dis | have heard argument of Id. Special P.P. Mr. Srimanta Gogoi and
Mr. Ajit Gogoi, learned defence counsel and gone through the evidence on

record. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

6. (1) | What was the age of the victim on the date of incident ?

(Il) Whether on 16.04.2015, the victim ‘J' was subjected to
penetrative sexual assault? If so, whether accused has committed
offence of penetrative sexual assault?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. P.W. 1 the victim in her evidence deposed that her present age is

14 years and she is a student of Class-VI. On the date of incident, while she

Spl (P) Case No. 13 of 2015 Page 2 of 10
went with the accused to Haluwating to perform Bihu, accused took her
through the field and by pulling her hand accused touched her body and
attempted to commit misdeed. On making hue and cry accused left her. On this,
by coming back to the road while she was returning home, accused came there
and threatened her not to divulge the matter and took promise. After returning
home from performing the Bihu dance, immediately she did not disclose the
matter to her parents. After 2-3 days, she informed the matter to her 'Na-bow'
Neha Gogoi, who in turn informed the matter to the mother of the victim. On
this incident her mother lodged the FIR. Police took her to court where she
gave her statement vide Exbt.1. In her cross examination P.W.1 admitted that
accused was the group leader of the Bihu Husuri Dol and he was responsible to
select the dancer, drummer and others. On the day of incident she went to 2-3
other villages for performing Bihu Husuri. There were four other girls with her
in the team, but she did not inform the matter to them. On the day of incident,
Tora Chutia, daughter of the accused was also supposed to go with her. She
denied the defence suggestion that as she was not selected in the team as
dancer she has lodged false allegation. The matter was also informed to

Gaonburah.

8. P.W. 2 Smt. Dipanjali Gogoi, mother of the victim in her evidence
deposed that about two years back, while she and her husband were at
Dibrugarh, accused took away the victim for dancing in the Bihu group and
while taking her through the field, accused misbehaved and attempted to
commit misdeed on which the victim made hue and cry. After this, victim went
to Haluwating and subsequently after returning home she informed the matter
to Neha who informed her about the incident. On this she lodged the FIR. In
her cross examination she admitted that FIR was written by one Advocate. On
the date of incident, upon arrival at Haluwating the victim met the other girls of
the Bihu group. She also denied that as the victim was not selected in the team,
this false case was lodged. Though the matter was informed to Gaonburah, but

he did not take any action.

Spl (P) Case No. 13 of 2015 Page 3 of 10
9. PW-3 Mrs. Neha Gogoi, sister-in-law of the victim (Nabou), in her
evidence deposed that at the time of Incident of Victim was aged about 12
years. On 16.04.2015 with some reluctance she sent the victim with accused on
the plea that two girls and daughter will also go with him for Bihu Dance. On
the next day, on return, Victim told her that after sending the other girls,
accused took her alone with him, hold her hand and on his attempt to commit
misdeed, Victim has to bite his hand. At Bihu field on getting her friend she
performed Bihu Dance and returned home with her friend. Accused also
restrained her from disclosing the incident to anybody else. In her cross-
examination she admitted that while giving statement to police she has not
Stated that on the next day, on return, Victim narrated the incident as stated in

her examination in chief.

10. PW 4 Md. Habibul Rahman, Gaonburah in his evidence deposed
that on 16.04.2015 while he was at his residence, parents of Victim informed
him that their daughter Victim was taken by accused for Bihu Dance and on his
way accused attempted to commit rape on Victim. On this, he being Gaonburah
and VDP called a village meeting. In the meeting both the sides appeared and
Started quarrel amongst them. Meeting could not discuss the matter for the
Said quarrel. On 26.05.2015, police seized original copy of letter to village
headman by both the side, statement copy of Victim dated 16.05.2015 given at
the meeting, one copy of the Salish Nama signed by Victim and accused Baga
Chutia, copy of statement of accused Baga Chutia and copy of signature of
attendants present in the meeting. Exbt. 2 is seizure list. In his cross-
examination he deposed that while giving statement to police, he has stated
that at the very beginning of the meeting, father of Victim threatened him and
other to cut and on this meeting was dissolved. Meeting was initiated at the
requisition of both sides. He denied the defence suggestion that while giving
Statement to police he did not state that parents of Victim came to him with

allegation fo rape on Victim by the accused.

Spl (P) Case No. 13 of 2015 Page 4 of 10
11. PW-5 Sri Sihu Ram Mili, VDP Secretary in his evidence deposed in
unison with PW 4 and affirmed the vice Exbt. 2 police seized documents
relating to meeting. In his cross-examination he denied the defence suggestion

that parents of Victim did not allege for rape on Victim by the accused.

12. PW-6 Miss Bibita Taye in her evidence deposed that on
16.04.2015 she along with the daughter of accused and few others went to
Halwating for Bihu Dance. Victim also came there subsequently for Bihu Dance.
After about seven days of above incident, when they refused to the victim in
their group for Bihu Dance at Sivasagar due to her poor performance, she told
others that accused committed misdeed with her. She heard this from villagers.
She did not ask Victim about this incident. In her cross-examination she stated
that their Bihu Dance group was managed by the accused. Accused normally
determines about the participants in the dance group. After Halwating, they
performed at their own village. After a week, they came to Sivasagar for Bihu
Dance. On that day, she came to know that Victim was not selected in the Bihu

Dance group.

13. PW-7 Sl Chittaranjan Iswary, i/o of this case, in his evidence
deposed that on the FIR dated 25.05.2015, (Exbt. 3) Demow PS case No.
132/15 u/s 12 of POCSO Act was registered. On 26.05.2015 he went to the
place of occurrence i.e. open field at Kaiborta Doloni Gaon as shown by the
victim and drawn a sketch map of the PO. Exbt. 4 is the said sketch map.
During investigation, he seized the proceedings relating to village meeting in
the matter of victim. Exbt. 2 is the seizure list. Exbt. 2(ili) is my signature. On
27.05.2015, he sent the victim for medical examination and also to Court for
recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On that day accused appeared at the
PS and upon arresting him, forwarded to Court for remand. He has also
collected the medical report and statement of the victim given on Court. Exbt. 5
is the medical report of the victim issued by Dr. Sadhan Bora of Sivasagar Civil
Hospital. In Exbt. 5 medical officer, has opined that the age of the victim is
below 16 years and no sign of recent sexual intercourse or no injury was

Spl (P) Case No. 13 of 2015 Page 5 of 10
detected on her person. On completion of investigation, he submitted charge
sheet against the accused Hontu Chutia @ Beka u/s 12 of POCSO Act. Exbt. 6 is
the charge sheet. In his cross-examination |/O affirmed that witness Neha
Gogoi in her statement before him did not state that “on the next day, on
return, Victim told her that after sending the other girls, took her alone with
him, hold her hand and on his attempt to commit misdeed, Victim has to Bite
his hand.” 1/O has also confirmed that witness Habibul Rahman and Sihu Ram
Mili in their statement before him stated that “at the very beginning of the
meeting, father of Victim threatened them only and on this meeting was
dissolved. He further affirmed that witness Habibul Rahman and Sihu Ram Mili
in their statement before him have not stated that “parents of Victim informed

that allegation of rape on Victim by the accused.”

14. Point No. |: So far age of the victim is concerned, while adducing
evidence on 14.07.2016, the victim claimed her age as 14 years and a student
of Class-VI. P.W.3, sister-in-law of the victim has deposed that victim was aged
about 12 years, whereas P.W.4 and P.W.5, the co-villagers has claimed that
victim was aged about 14 years. In the medical examination report (Exbt.5)
M.O. has opined the age of the victim as below 16 years. No challenge was
made by the defence on the above evidence on age of the victim. So from the
materials on record, | hold that on the date of alleged incident the victim was

aged about 14 years.

15. Point No. IIL: So far allegation of penetrative sexual assault on the
victim is concerned, from the record, it appears that no allegation ever been
made regarding penetrative sexual assault either in the FIR or in 164 Cr.P.C.
Statement of the victim or during her evidence in court. The allegation as
alleged is of sexual assault only. In the course of argument hearing, learned
Special P.P. has submitted that though there was delay in lodging the FIR, but
the evidence of the victim so far holding her hands and touched her body in an
attempt to commit misdeed on her should be presumed in view of the provision
of Section 29 of POCSO Act 2012. On the other hand, learned Advocate Mr. Ajit

Spl (P) Case No. 13 of 2015 Page 6 of 10
Gogol appearing for the accused has vehemently argued that apart from the
unexplained delay of about 37 days, the evidence of victim is neither
trustworthy nor reliable. In view of the evidence of P.W. 6, learned Advocate
also argued that as the victim failed to get selection in the final dancing team
for Bihu, she brought this false allegation against the accused after about 37
days. Non-submitting of FIR even after knowing the incident on the next day
clearly shows that nothing happened as alleged by victim and for not selecting
her in Bihu Dance Group, to take revenge, accused was framed in this case.
Learned Advocate for the defence has also pointed out various discrepancies
and submitted that it is a fit case for holding the accused not guilty. | have

considered the submission of both the sides.

16. From the evidence of victim it appears that accused took her to
Haluwating Gaon for Bihu dance in his team and while taking her through field,
accused hold her hand and attempted to commit misdeed on her. After
performing Bihu, she returned home and reported the matter to her sister-in-
law Neha Gogoi after 2-3 days who in turn informed the matter to her mother.
In her cross examination she admitted that accused was the team leader of the
Bihu dance who normally select the dancer, drummer etc. for the Bihu team.
After this incident she took part in 2-3 other function with her team-met but did
not inform about the incident to them. P.W.2 is the mother of the victim and
she is a hearsay witness. She did not inquire the incident from the victim and
filed the FIR on knowing the fact from her daughter-in-law. P.W. 3 deposed
that on the next day of the incident, victim reported her regarding holding her
hand and attempt to commit misdeed by the accused. However in her cross she
admitted that before police she has not stated regarding reporting of the matter
by the victim on the next day of the incident. This part of exaggeration in
Statement has been confirmed by the I/O. P.W. 3 in her evidence though
deposed that while accused hold the hand of the victim, victim has given a bite
in the hand of the accused, but victim is silent on this part. P.W.4, Gaonburah

and P.W.5, VDP Secretary deposed about a meeting after one month regarding

Spl (P) Case No. 13 of 2015 Page 7 of 10
alleged incident of attempt to commit misdeed by the accused. According to
them the meeting could not discuss the matter on this issue as both the sides
Started quarrel amongst them. From their evidence it appears that the meeting
was organized on 16.05.2015 |.e. after about one month of the alleged incident
and police seized the minutes of the meeting. Their evidence about the incident
is hearsay as it was reported to them by the parents. P.W. 6 in her evidence as
narrated above clearly stated that on the day of incident, the victim came to
Haluwating Gaon for Bihu dance and subsequently when they declined to take
the victim in their group due to her poor performance, she told others about
commission of misdeed by the accused. P.W.7 is the 1.0. who did the routine
investigation and proved the medical report which shows no injury marks on

the victim.

17. From the above narration of facts, it appears that there was no
eye witness of the occurrence. FIR was lodged after about 37 days. A village
meeting was called after 30 days of the alleged incident. No proper explanation
was given as to why after knowing the matter on the next day of the incident
by P.W. 3, the matter was not reported to police. The delay in lodging the FIR
appears to be against normal human conduct and it creates suspicion on the
version of the prosecution case, rather | found force on the defence version
that as the victim was not selected in the Bihu team on subsequent occasion,
out of anger she filed this case. The evidence of the victim alone is found not

reliable and trustworthy due to abnormal delay in lodging the FIR.

18. It may be noted here that though learned Special P.P. has prayed
for invoking Section 29 of POCSO Act 2012 to draw a presumption on the
incident, but even if the evidence of the victim is taken at its face value, then
also it hardly makes a case U/S 12 of POCSO Act 2012 for which Section 29 of
POCSO Act 2012 is not applicable.

19. Under the above facts and circumstances, | am of the considered

opinion that prosecution has failed to prove the allegation of penetrative sexual

Spl (P) Case No. 13 of 2015 Page 8 of 10
assault or even sexual assault or sexual harassment by the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt. As such, accused Sri Huntu Chutia @ Beka @ Boga is
acquitted from the charges U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and set at liberty
forthwith.

20. Bail bond executed by the accused and his surety stand extended
for another six months from today U/S 437-A Cr.P.C.

21. Considering the nature of the case, the matter is not referred to
DLSA for granting compensation U/S 357 (A) Cr.P.C.

22. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

23. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 31°t day of May
2018 Sivasagar.

Special | udge,
Sivasagar:

Spl (P) Case No. 13 of 2015 Page 9 of 10
APPENDIX
. Prosecution witnesses :

P.W.1- Victim

P.W.2- Smt. Dipanjali Gogoi (Informant)
P.W.3- Mrs. Neha Gogol

P.W.4- Md. Habibul Rahman

P.W.5- Sri Sihu Ram Mili

P.W.6- Miss Bibita Taye

P.W.7- SI Chittaranjan Iswary (1.0.)

. Defence witnesses” - None

. Court witnesses - None
. Exhibits by prosecution -

Exbt.1 - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim 'J'
Exbt.2 - Seizure list

Exbt.3 - FIR

Exbt.4 - Sketch map

Exbt.5 - Medical report

Exbt.6 - Charge-Sheet

Special J udge,
Sivasagar:

Spl (P) Case No. 13 of 2015 Page 10 of 10
