Page 1 of 16

THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASE NO. :-

(Under Section 457 of the IPC read with
section 18 of POCSO Act, arising out of G.R.
Case No 3152 of 2018)

Present =

Prosecutor !-
=-VSs-

Accused !-

Date of framing Charge =

Date of evidence =

Date of examination of -
accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

Date of evidence of DW -

Date of Argument =

Date of Judgment =

Counsel for the Prosecution :-

Counsel for Accused -

73 of 2018

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur

State of Assam

Md. Amir Ali,

Son of Ajgar Ali

Resident of Kamarchuburi
Police Station — Thelamara
Dist :- Sonitpur, Assam.

07/09/2018

20/09/2018, 05/10/2018
31/10/2018 & 14/12/2018

14/12/2018

17/12/2018

18/12/2018

18/12/2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor.

Mr. A.K. Paul, Advocate.

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018]

Page 1
Page 2 of 16

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md. Amir Ali is put for trial for allegation of
charge under Section 457 of the IPC read with section 18 of POCSO Act.
2. The various facts leading to this case according to FIR in brief is that

on or about 11.30 p.m. of 11-08-2018 the accused trespassed into the house of
the informant by breaking the “Ekora/jute stick” wall, gagged informant’s minor
daughter, attempted to commit sexual assault. On hearing raising alarm of victim
all the family members gathered and caught the accused red handed but he fled
away somehow. Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar was filed, by. informant
Md. Kalum Ali before the O/C of Thelamara PS on 12-08-2018.
3. On receipt the ejahar, the O/C of Thelamara/P.S. registered the case,
vide Thelamara PS Case No. 148/18, under Section.457 of IPC read with section
8 of POCSO Act. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C Thelamara
Police station sent up the case for trial against the accused Md. Amir Ali under
Section 457 of IPC read with section 8 of POCSO Act.
4. On being appeared the ‘accused person before this Court after
hearing both parties, framed charge under section 457 of IPC read with section
18 of POCSO Act against thesaccused Md. Amir Ali. Particulars of the charge are
read over and explained to.which he pleads not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 9 (nine)
numbers of witnesses. Accused pleads total denial while his statement was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and
evidence.appears against the accused are put before him where he denied the
evidence and declined to give defence evidence.
6. I have also heard arguments put forwarded by the learned counsel
for both parties.
7. The point for decision in this case is that :
(i) Whether the accused on or about 11.30 p.m. of 11-08-2018 at
Komarchuburi under Thelamara Police station, committed lurking
house trespass by night by entering into the house of complainant
after the house of Sunset and before the hour of Sunrise, inroder to
commit and attempted to commit any offence punishable under the

POCSO Act or to cause such an offence to be committed, and in such

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 2
Page 3 of 16

attempt, does any acts towards the commission of the offence on

Miss X (14 years of age) and thereby committed an offence

punishable under section 457 of the IPC read with section 18 of

POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.
9. PW-. 1 Kalu Ali, the complainant of this case, stated that the incident took
place more than one month ago, at night at about 11.30 p.m. The victim Miss X
is her daughter who is aged about 14 years at the time of incident.. When his
daughter was sleeping, the accused entered into their house and dragged his
daughter holding her legs. Then his daughter raised alarm and on hearing he
rushed to her room and on being seen the accused he caught the accused red
handed but the accused fled away forcefully bysbreaking the wall of the house.
Next morning at about 10 a.m., he has filed the ejahar. The ejahar was written
by a scribe as per his instruction where he put thumb impression. Police came
and saw the broken wall of the house. Police recorded his statement and the
statement of his victim daughter were also recorded by police in their house.
Thereafter, police sent his daughter to the doctor for medical examination. Police
also sent his victim daughter to the learned Magistrate for recording her
statement. He has. submitted a photo copy of birth certificate of his victim
daughter to police..The date of birth of his daughter was 12-04-2004 according
to that birth certificate.

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination except giving
many suggestions the evidence as to the accused entered into their house,
dragged his daughter by holding her legs, when she raised alarm he along with
other family members went to the room and he caught the accused red handed
thereafter accused forcefully fled away by breaking the “Ekora” wall of their
house has remained unchallenged.

10. PW-2 Miss X who is the victim of this case, stated that she knows the
accused Amir Ali. The incident took place one and half months ago. At night at
about 11.30 p.m., the accused came to their house and trespassed in to her
room by breaking the “Ekora” wall and entered into her room. During that time,

she was sleeping with her 8 years old younger sister Rabina Khatun. At first

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 3
Page 4 of 16

accused dragged her leg and gagged her mouth. Then she raised alarm. On
hearing her alarm her parents arrived there. Her uncle (Jethu) Gajibur Rahman
and Kamaluddin, Rezek etc were arrived at their house. But her younger sister
was still in slept. Then the accused fled away and in the next day her father filed
the case before the police station. On being instituted the case, police recorded
her statement and also sent her to the learned Magistrate to record her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 1 is the said statement u/s 164 Cr.P.c. and Ext.
1(1) is her signature. In earlier accused proposed her to love but she refused.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except giving

many suggestions the evidence as to at the relevant time accused. criminally
trespassed into her room, while she was sleeping with her 8. years old younger
sister, then accused dragged her leg, gagged her mouth; when she raised alarm,
on hearing her hulla her parents and uncle (Jethu) Gajibur Rahman, Kamaluddin,
Rezek etc were arrived at their house, but hervyounger sister was in sleeping ,
then accused fled away from her house has,remained unchallenged.
11. PW-3 Ramisa Khatoon, mother, of the victim stated that the age of her
victim daughter was 14 years at the time,of incident. The incident took place at
night at about 8.30 p.m more .than.one month ago. Accused entered into their
house by breaking the wall, The accused gagged the mouth of her victim
daughter who was sleeping at the relevant time. When she raised hulla she
awoke and called her, husband. When her husband caught the hand of the
accused, then.the..accused wanted to sit in their bed but he fled away.
Thereafter,,neighbouring people gathered there. In the next day, her husband
filed the.case:

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination the evidence as
to-at the relevant time accused entered into their house by breaking the Ekora
wall, gagged the mouth of her victim daughter who was sleeping at the relevant
time, while her daughter raised hulla she awoke and called her husband and her
husband caught the hand of the accused, then the accused wanted to sit in their
bed but he fled away has remained same.

12. PW- 4 Kamaluddin, neighbor of the complainant, stated that the incident
took place more than one month ago, at night, at about 11.30 p.m. in the house
of complainant. At the relevant time there was heavy raining and he was at

home. Gajibur Rahman and the mother of the victim namely, Ramisa Khatoon

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 4
Page 5 of 16

went to his house and informed him that the accused entered in to the house of
Ramisa by breaking the wall of the house and grabbed the mouth of victim
when she was sleeping. Then he along with other villagers arrived at the house
of Ramisa Khatoon and saw the broken wall of the house. He informed police.
Next day morning, father of the victim filed ejahar before the police station.

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination except giving

many suggestions the evidence as to at the relevant time he was at home,
Gajibur Rahman and the mother of the victim namely, Ramisa Khatoon went to
his house and informed him that the accused entered in to the house of Ramisa
by breaking the wall of the house and grabbed the mouth of victim.when she
was sleeping has remained unchallenged.
13. PW 5 Gajibur Rahman, uncle of the victim, stated.before the court that
the incident took place more than one month ago at.about 11.30 p.m. at night.
At the relevant time he was at home. On hearing“hulla of victim and Ramisa he
rushed to the house of Ramisa and saw that Kalum tried to catch hold the
accused but he failed. Amir fled away. On enquiry the matter to victim, she told
that the accused caught hold her legs and when she woke the accused gagged
her mouth. Neighbouring people gathered there and then he informed police
over phone.

He was duly cross-examined but the evidence as to at the relevant time
on hearing hulla in the/ house of Ramisa he rushed to her house and saw Kalum
tried to catch hold ‘the accused but he failed and then accused fled away, while
making enquiry, the victim told him that the accused hold her legs and when she
was awoke.the accused gagged her mouth has remained unshaken.

14. PW 6 Md. Torab Ali stated that the incident took place two and half
months ago, at night at about 11.30 p.m. At the relevant time they were
watching TV in their uncle’s house. The victim is aged about 14 years. On
hearing hulla in the house of complainant Kalam Ali he rushed to his house.
There, he saw many people gathered there. Kalum Ali stated that accused
trespassed into his house, and when attempt to commit bad acts by dragging his
daughter then Kalum Ali attempt to hold him but accused pushed him down and
fled away by breaking open the bamboo wall. Thereafter, Kalum Ali filed FIR

against the accused.

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 5
Page 6 of 16

Though he has been exposed to cross-examination, the evidence as to at

the relevant time they were watching TV in their uncle’s house, on hearing hulla
in the house of complainant Kalam Ali he rushed to his house, he saw many
people gathered there, complainant stated that accused trespassed into his
house, and when attempt to commit bad acts by dragging his daughter then
Kalum Ali attempt to hold him but accused pushed him down and fled away by
breaking open the bamboo wall has remained unchallenged.
15. PW 7 Md. Rezek Ali stated that the incident took place two and half
months ago, at night at about 11.30 p.m. On being called by Kalum Ali he rushed
to his house and saw one of the wall of the house was broken. There.he came to
know from Kalum Ali that accused trespassed into the house of Kalum Ali,
attempted to commit bad acts by dragging his daughter then Kalum Ali
attempted to hold him but accused pushed him down,and fled away by breaking
open the bamboo wall. Thereafter, Kalum Ali filed. FIR against the accused. At
the relevant time victim was about 15 years. Onvenquiry, victim stated to him
that while she was slept, accused entered into her room, gagged her mouth,
dragged her hands and attempted to ‘commit misdeed. When she raised alarm,
her father attempted to caught-hold the accused but the accused fled away by
breaking the bamboo wall of the house. Thereafter, many people gathered there
and called the accused but he did not go there and fled away. So, complainant
filed this case against'the-accused.

Thoughe “has been exposed to long cross-examination except giving
many suggestions*the evidence as to at the relevant time while he was called by
Kalum Ali_he rushed to his house and there he came to know from Kalum Ali that
accused \trespassed into the house of Kalum Ali, attempted to commit bad acts
by dragging his daughter then Kalum Ali attempted to hold him but accused
pushed him down and fled away by breaking open the bamboo wall, on enquiry,
victim stated to him that while she was slept, accused entered into her room,
gagged her mouth, dragged her hands and attempted to commit misdeed has
remained unchallenged.

16. PW 8, Miss Sparsita Garg, Judicial Magistrate, 1* class, Tezpur stated
that on 13-08-2018 she was posted as Judicial Magistrate, 1° class, Sonitpur,
Tezpur and on that day in reference to Special POCSO Case No. 73/18 u/s 357 of

IPC read with section 8 of POCSO Act, a fourteen years minor girl namely Miss X,

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 6
Page 7 of 16

D/O Kalum Ali of village Kamarchuburi, Thelamara under Thelamara PS was
produced before her for recording her statement. The said witness was escorted
and identified by WHG Hemi Patangia. She recorded the statement of said
witness in her court Chamber. At the time of recording her statement other than
her and victim none was there. The witness made statement voluntarily. After
recording her statement, she read over the contents of the statement and on
acceptance she put signature thereon. Ext 1 is the statement of said witness and
Ext. 1(3) is her signature. Ext. 2 is the order dated 13-08-2018 and Ext. 2 (1)
is her signature.

17. PW 9, the Investigating Officer, Sri Arun Gogoi, stated before this court
that on 12-08-2018 he was posted as ASI of police at Thelamara Police station.
On that day, at 10 a.m. complainant Kalum Ali lodged an:ejahar before the police
station. Accordingly, O/C registered a case being Thelamara PS Case No. 148
/2018 u/s 457 of the IPC r/w section 8 of POCSO Act and entrusted him for
investigation of the case. Accordingly, he visited the place of occurrence, drew
the sketch map of the place of occurrence and recorded the statement of
witnesses. Ext. 3 is the sketch map’ where in Ext. 3(1) is his signature. He also
arrested the accused and forwarded him to the court. He sent the victim to the
court for recording her statement.u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 4 is the FIR wherein Ext.
4(1) is the signature of the then O/C Susil Kr. Bhuyan which he knew. At the
relevant time the age,of.the victim was about 14 years. During the time of
investigation, the,complainant gave the original copy of birth certificate of the
victim which he has kept one photocopy of the said certificate and the original
was returned to the complainant. As per the said certificate the date of birth of
the victim ‘is 12-04-2004. On completion of usual investigation, he has filed the
chargesheet against the accused finding sufficient materials u/s 457 of IPC read
with section 8 of POCSO Act. Ext. 5 is the chargesheet and Ext. 5(1) is his
signature.

18. These much is the evidence of prosecution.

19. Defence plea is total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313
Cr.P.C. He admitted that he has entered into the house of the complainant at
the invitation of the wife of the complainant as because his mobile hand set is

required by the wife of the complainant to call somebody.

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 7
Page 8 of 16

To buttress the defence accused adduced evidence through himself
and his mother.

DW 1 stated that on the day of incident, at about 9.30 p.m., mother of
the victim called him to her house to make a call from his mobile hand set as
there is no mobile in the house of victim. His house is adjacent to the house of
the victim. When he went to the house of the victim, the mother of the victim
opened the door and he asked to give the number which she wanted to call but
she did not provide the same. Then father of the victim hold his hand, asked him
that he will entangle him with some offence. Then mother of the victim went to
his house and complaint to his mother alleging that he torn her clothes. During
that time, he was hold by father of the victim. They did not.allow him to come
out. Then victim was sent to the house of Gajibur to call him. Gajibur came with
a bamboo stick to assault him. Then he fled away by breaking the bamboo wall
of the house of the complainant.

In cross- examination by Prosecution he admitted that he did not stay
with his parents as he lived in a separate room. At the time of calling him by the
mother of the victim he was watching TV alone. His parents were in sleeping.
The mother of the victim initially called his mother who was in sleeping. Though
mother of the victim asked his mother to take the mobile hand set but she did
not took the mobile to their house. Complainant is their adjacent neighbor. They
had a visiting terms:

Similarly; DW 2, Ahatjan Bibi, the mother of the accused, stated that
the wife of*Kalum, Ramesa Khatoon asked her to call her son Amir Ali to her
house to.make a call from his mobile phone to her parents’ house. Then she
sent her,son with his mobile to the house of Kalum. Thereafter, she came to
know from her son Amir that by that time Kalum Ali was sleeping and his wife
was searching the phone number and suddenly Kalum Ali awoke finding her son
inside his room caught hold of her son. Thereafter, Ramesa came to her house
and informed her that her son Amir committed some misdeed to her and
therefore, she called her to her house. By that time Gajibur and Kalum also tried
to assault her son inside their house, then her son came out by breaking the
bamboo wall of the house. At that time there was raining. When the rain
stopped, some other people gathered there. In the gathering Kalum Ali and his

wife reported that some misdeed commit by her son with Romesa.

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 8
Page 9 of 16

In cross-examination, she admitted that she has not appeared in
summons. Ramesa came to their house at night to wake her up. During that time
all the family members were in sleeping. Amir Ali was also in sleeping. She called
him. Prior to the incident, they had no enmity with the complainant.

20. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution has failed
to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, there is only one eye
witness i.e. the victim. Secondly, accused entered at the relevant time into the
house of the complainant at the invitation of complainant's wife as his mobile
hand set is required by the wife of the complainant to call somebody. Thirdly,
the complainant has falsely implicated the accused into theallegation of sexual
assault to the victim. Fourthly, there are many contradictions among the
statement of witnesses particularly, the statement of Kamaluddin, some of which
are confirmed through the I.O.

21. On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor has submitted that
the prosecution has ably proved the. case, against the accused beyond any
reasonable doubt. Firstly, there isa clear unambiguous statement on the oath
of the victim. Secondly, there.is a.clear evidence that on hearing hulla victim’s
father, uncle and neighbor reached at the place of occurrence where the accused
was caught red handed by the father of the victim though he was fled away
somehow. Therefore,accused’s presence in the house of the complainant at
dead night of 41930_p.m. cannot be ruled out. Thirdly, statement of victim is
corroborated with*her statement made before the I.O. u/s 161 Cr.P.C. and also
the statement»made before the learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Under such
circumstances, the accused is required to be convicted under the charged
section.

22. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the learned counsels
of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

23. On-close scrutiny of the record as well as the statement of the victim, it
appears that to substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 9
numbers of witnesses. Out of 9 numbers of witnesses two PWs i.e. PW 8 and PW
9 are official witnesses. They are the learned Magistrate who recorded the
statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and the Investigating Officer. So, there

remained 7 numbers of unofficial witnesses. Among the seven numbers of

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 9
Page 10 of 16

unofficial witnesses, PW 1 and 2 are father and mother of the victim respectively.
PW 5 is the uncle of the victim. PW 4, PW 6 and PW 7 are independent
witnesses. It is a fact that there is no any eye witness other than the victim.

24. Let me discussed the evidence of the complainant first. PW1, is the father
of the victim who deposed that at the relevant time his victim daughter was
sleeping, the accused entered into their house and dragged his daughter by
holding her legs, then his daughter raised alarm and on hearing hulla he rushed
to her room and on being seen the accused he caught the accused red handed
but the accused fled away forcefully by breaking the wall of the house. Next
morning at about 10 a.m., he has filed the ejahar which was.written in his
instruction by one scribe. Thereafter, police came and investigated the case. He
clearly stated the photo copy of the birth certificate of his victim daughter shows
that the date of birth of his daughter was on 12-04-2004., PW 3, mother of the
victim supported the evidence of the complainants, She stated that the incident
took place at night where accused entered into their house by breaking the wall
(made of Ekora), the accused gagged the mouth of her victim daughter who was
sleeping at the relevant time, when.victim»raised alarm she awoke and called her
husband, when her husband caught.red handed of the accused, accused wanted
to sit in their bed but he fled away. Their statements are supported by PW 5, the
nephew of the victim whovalso stated that at the relevant time on hearing hulla
of the victim and her‘mother, he rushed to the house of the complainant and so
Kalum (PW 1) tried.to catch hold of the accused but he failed then accused fled
away. On enquiry ‘to victim, she told him that accused hold the legs of the victim
when she woke up the accused gagged her mouth. One of the most independent
witness PW 4 who belongs to the same locality of the complainant, stated that at
the relevant time there was a heavy raining and he was at home. Gajibur
Rahman and the mother of the victim namely, Ramisa Khatoon went to his house
and informed him that the accused entered in to the house of Ramisa by
breaking the bamboo wall of the house and grabbed the mouth of victim when
she was sleeping. Then he along with other villagers arrived at the house of
Ramisa Khatoon and saw the broken Ekora wall of the house. Similarly, other
independent witnesses, PW 6 and PW 7 also supported the evidence of pW 1
complainant. They stated that on hearing hulla in the house of the complainant

they rushed to the house of the complainant where they noticed many people

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 10
Page 11 of 16

gathered there. Complainant stated that accused trespassed into his house and
when he attempted to commit bad act by dragging his daughter, Kalum Ali
attempted to hold him but accused pushed him down and fled away by breaking
open the bamboo wall.

Though PW 4, PW 5, PW 6 and PW 7 are not eye witnesses to the
occurrence but all the aforesaid witnesses clearly stated that on hearing hulla in
the house of the complainant, they went to the house of the complainant and
there they came to know that accused trespassed into the house of the
complainant, at first accused dragged the victim’s leg and then.gagged her
mouth, when she raised alarm her uncle Gajibur, and Kamaluddin,..Rezek etc
were arrived at their house.

As stated herein above, the victim PW 2 is the,only eye witness to the
occurrence. Though PW 1 did not see the accused dragged the legs of the victim
and gagged her mouth but on raising alarm of*victim and his wife he woke up
and caught red handed the accused inside his house, however, accused forcefully
fled away. The victim stated that at the relevant time accused trespassed into
their house by breaking the Ekora wall and entered into her room. During that
time she was sleeping with her 8 years old younger sister. At first accused
dragged her leg and gagged ‘her mouth, then she raised alarm. On hearing her
alarm, her parents arrived there. Her uncle (Jethu) Gajibur Rahman and
Kamaluddin, Rezek:etc were arrived at their house, but her younger sister was
still in slept. Thenthe accused fled away from their house.

25. Thedaw is well settled that in a case of sexual offence, the onus is always
on the prosecution to prove affirmatively each ingredient of the offence it seeks
to establish and such onus never shifted. In practice, a conviction for rapesexual
offence almost entirely depend on the credibility of the woman, so far as the
essential ingredients are concerned, the other evidence being merely
corroborative. It is not necessary that there should be independent corroboration
of every material circumstance in the scene that the independent evidence in the
case, apart from the testimony of the victim, should in itself be sufficient to
sustain conviction. All that required is that there must be some additional
evidence rendering it probable that the story of the victim is true and that is

reasonably safe to act upon.

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 11
Page 12 of 16

26. It appears from the record that the statement of the victim made before
the court is corroborated with the statement made u/s 161 Cr.P.C before the I.O.
and also with the statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. made before the learned Magistrate.
It has already stated that though all the aforesaid witnesses were duly cross-
examined by the defence but the defence has failed to shake the evidence of the
aforesaid witnesses. Besides, there is no any evidence that complainant has any
enmity with the accused or with any of the family members of the accused to
implicate the accused falsely. Under such circumstances, the statement of the
victim is found convincing, reliable and trustworthy.

27. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that according to the
statement of the accused recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. accused wentto the house of
the victim because the mother of the victim asked him to. come to their house
with mobile hand set so that she rang to her.grand mother’s house and
therefore, the accused went there. Other than mere.a simple suggestion made to
the complainant the accused failed to cross-examine or make any suggestion
neither to victim nor to the mother of the victim. To substantiate the alibi
accused adduced evidence himself as\DW1 and also adduced evidence through
his mother who is DW 2. It appears that a feeble attempt made by the accused
to change the story of lurking house trespass but it has not succeeded. Firstly,
the accused as DW 1 stated, about the fact of 9.30 p.m. but according to the
prosecution story, the.incident took place at about 11.30 p.m. Secondly, DW 2,
the mother of the,accused appeared before this court not on summons. Besides,
DW 2 being the mother of the accused (DW1) never wanted conviction of her
own son. ‘Lastly, the evidence of DWs is not corroborated with each other,
because DW 1 himself stated that at the relevant time he was watching T.V. On
the other hand, DW 2 stated that at the relevant time she and her son were in
sleep in bed. The evidence of accused and his mother cannot overcome the
reliable, trustworthy and convincing evidence of victim (PW 2), her father PW1,
her mother PW 3 and the independent witnesses PW 4, PW 6 and PW 7 and the
relative witness PW 5. It is noteworthy to mention that the evidence of the
complainant clearly showed that when he woke up on hearing hulla of his
daughter (victim) and his wife he found the accused inside his house and caught

the accused red handed but he forcefully fled away by breaking the Ekora wall.

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 12
Page 13 of 16

The evidence of complainant clearly showed that the accused was not there with
the consent or at the invitation or pleasure of complainant's wife.
28. Here in this case, the accused is found concealing himself in the dead
night in another men’s house and on the failure of the accused to justify his
presence there, the presumption could be drawn that he made entry with intent
to commit some offence.
29. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of accused is
not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered much as prosecution
is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts. However,
in a case under POCSO Act, the situation is not so. In this regard,. it will be
worthwhile to refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.
30. Under Section 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory“presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain offences
and same reads as under :
"29. Presumption as to certain offences — where a person Is
prosecuted for committing or.abetting or attempting to commit
any offence U/s.3,5,7,and
Section 9 of this-Act, the Special Court shall presume that such
person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be, unless the contrary Is proved. “
31. Similarly, Section=-30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special Court shall
draw a presumption_of the existence of culpable mental state of the acused
where culpable. mental state is required on the part of the accused. Section 30
of POCSO Actyreads as under :
"30. Presumption of culpable mental state- (1) In any prosecution
for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental
state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume
that existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for
the accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state
with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution.
(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be
proved only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond
reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established

by a preponderance of probabilities. "

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 13
Page 14 of 16

32. Similarly whenever any law prescribes that the court shall presume the
existence of culpable mandatory state or to draw a presumption regarding
commission of any offence, unless the contrary is proved, the onus to prove the
contrary undoubtedly shifts upon the accused. Certainly, it does not discharge
the prosecution of its duty to first establish and prove the facts, the existence of
which can only lead to drawing of any such compulsory presumption or legal
presumption by the use of the expression “shall presume”. Thus, as per Section
29, if a person is prosecuted for committing or abating or attempting to commit
any offence U/s.3,5,7 and 9 of POCSO Act, the Special Court shall presume that
such person has committed or abated or attempted to commit the said offence
as the case may be unless the contrary is proved. However,’in the present case,
the accused has completely failed in discharging< his burden even by
preponderance of probabilities much less beyond reasonable doubt.

33. In the instant case as stated above, the statement of the victim is
reliable, trust-worthy and convincing. Her statement was supported by her
father, mother and other independent, witnesses, i.e. PW 4, 6 and 7 and the
relative witness PW 5.

34. In view of the aforesaid.reasons and discussions, I am bound to hold that
accused commits lurking house, trespass by night into the house of the
complainant with attempt to commit any sexual assault on the victim. It appears
that the prosecution, has-failed to prove the charge u/s 457 of the IPC but able to
prove the charge"u/s 456 of the IPC read with section 18 of POCSO Act.

35. In the result, I convict accused Amir Ali u/s 456 of the IPC and U/s.18 of
the POGSO.:Act.

36. Heard the accused on the point of sentence where he praying for leniency
stating that he is only 22 years old boy doing labour at Guwahati. He has been
in custody for long time earlier.

37. Ihave also heard the Ld. counsel for the accused and Ld. P.P.

38. Turning to the question of sentence it is settled law that while deciding
the quantum of punishment, it is required that the court should strike a balance
between aggravating circumstances and mitigating circumstances. The
aggravating circumstances relate to the crime and mitigating circumstances
relate to the criminal. In this case, so far as the aggravating circumstances are

concerned, a minor girl was sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 14
Page 15 of 16

not only to the body but also to the mind not only to the victim but that of entire
family members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the accused was
hardly 22 years old at the time of incident. Therefore, there is a chance of
reformation. It is not brought to the notice of the court that before this incident
the accused has committed any other offence. The statute U/s.18 of the POCSO
Act provides punishment for any description of the offence for term which may
extend to one half of the imprisonment for life or, as the case may be, one half
of the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence or with fine or with
both.
O R D E R

39. I convict accused Md. Amir Ali for the offence u/s 456.of the IPC and
sentence him to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for 24 (twenty-four) days and a
fine of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees one thousand only) in default Rigorous Imprisonment
for 1 (one) month and for the offence u/s 18 of: POCSO Act sentence him to pay
a fine of Rs.20,000.00 (Rupees Twenty thousand)-only, in default of payment of
fine, he shall under-go Rigorous Imprisonment for 6 (six) months. The fine, if
realized, be given to the victim as way of compensation.

The period, in which he detained in custody, shall be set off from the
period of imprisonment, imposed_on him.
40. Let acopy of this judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost.
41. A copy of this,judgment be also forwarded to the District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur"as.per provision of Sec.365 of Cr.P.C.
42. Given under my hand and seal of this court on 18" day of December,
2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 15
6) BO Sl Ot UT eee hd I)

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8
Prosecution Witness No.9

Page 16 of 16

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

te Kalu Ali, complainant,
te Victim

- Ramisa Khatoon,

- Kamaluddin

Se Gajibur Rahman

ie Md. Torab Ali

ie Md. Rezek Ali

- Miss Sparsita Garg,J.M.
I Sri Arun Gogoi, 1.0.

EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 1 :- statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext. 1(1) : - Signature of the victim.
Exhibit 2 :- Order dated 13-08-2018
Exhibit 2(1) :- Signature of Judl. Magistrate
Exhibit 3 :- Sketch map
Exhibit 4 :
Exhibit 5 :- Chargesheet:

Exhibit 3(1),4(1)&5(1):- Signature of.the I.0.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 

[Spl POCSO case No. 73 of 2018] Page 16
