eCourtIS Copy
IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC)::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,
Addl. Special Judge (FTC),
Kokrajhar.

Special Case No.07/2018
U/S.8 of POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM
Vs

Md. Mofizul Sheikh

S/O Lt. Sofiur Ali

Vill. Nederalga, Hakna Pt. |
P.S Bilasipara, Dist. Dhubri

beveeees Accused person.
Appearance: -

Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Kumar Ghosh, Special P.P

Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. Rantan Jhangkar Borgayary
Legal Aid Counsel

Charge framed on 31.05.2018

Evidence recorded on 27.06.2018; 07.12.2018;
17.12.2018; 07.01.2019;
28.01.2019

Argument heard on 15.02.2019
Judgment pronounced on 25.02.2019

UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that on 20.10.2017 one xxx,
the father of the victim, lodged an ejahar with the Officer-in-charge
of Kokrajhar Police Station alleging that on 19.10.2017, at about 12
noon, while his minor daughter, the victim, aged about 10 years,
had gone to Gaurango Park, accused Mofizul Sheikh forcefully

attempted to rape her but she managed to escape.

2. On receipt of the FIR, a case U/S 7 / 8 of Protection of
eCourtIS Copy
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, (POCSO Act) was

registered and investigated. After completion of investigation, a
charge-sheet was laid against the accused Mofizul Sheikh for
commission of offence U/S 7 / 8 of POCSO Act. The case was later,

transfered to this Court for disposal.

3. Upon hearing both sides, a charge U/S 8 of the POCSO Act
was framed against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty

and claimed trial.

4, In the course of trial, prosecution examined 7 witnesses and
closed its evidence. Accused person was examined U/S 313 of the
Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and the accused declined

to adduce any evidence.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION :-

a. Whether the accused committed the act of sexual

assault on the victim?

DECISION WITH REASONS :

5. PW.1, the victim, a girl aged about 11 years, deposed that
the occurrence took place about 7 /8 months ago. She had gone
to jungle to call her mother and while she was shouting for her
mother, the accused came there and asked her as to whom she is
inquiring about. She replied that she is searching for her mother.
The accused then told her that he had seen her mother towards
the gate of the Bilasipara Court. Pw 1 deposed that while she was
going towards the Court, accused came and suddenly caught hold

of her and after closing her mouth he forcefully opened her
eCourtIS Copy

leggings till her knee portion and pushed her on the ground but, as
deposed to by pw 1, she somehow managed to escape by giving a
kick to the accused and came running to her father. Later, her

father lodged the case.

6. In her cross-examination, the victim deposed that she is
reading in class VIl. The day of occurrence was a holiday and the
Court and her school was also closed. She further deposed that
home-guards remain on duty on the gate of the Court but on the
day of incident there were no policemen or home-guard. There is
also one sub-way near the Court to visit in the field. The people
used to come by the road even by bicycle or motor-bike. The place
of occurrence is a Sal Bagan and there are lots of Sal trees in the

jungle. The people used to graze their cows and goat in the jungle.

7. Pw 1 denied the suggestion that that it was a working day
and that the accused did not open her leggings. She, however,
admitted that she does not know about the contents of the FIR.
She denied the suggestion that she had given her statement U/S

164 of Cr.P.C as tutored by her parents.

8. P.W.2, Ayesha Bibi deposed that the incident took place
about 8 months ago. At about 10 am, she was also collecting fire-
wood in the backside of the Court when the victim came to her
and inquired about her mother. She told that she may be a bit far
and aksed her to search for her mother. Later on, she heard that
the accused tried to take away the victim. She also saw the

accused while police arrested him.
eCourtIS Copy

9. In cross-examination, she stated she heard about the

incident from her co-villagers.

10. PW3, Abu Bakkar Ali, deposed that the occurrence took
place about one year back. He heard that the accused had pulled
up the minor daughter of xxx, the father of victim, near Florican
Garden and in this regard he was called by the police and he had

given statement accordingly.

11. In cross-examination, PW3 stated that he had not seen the
occurrence and that he has been cited as witness by the police

because he is VCDC member.

12. PW4 xxx, the mother of the victim, deposed that the
incident occurred about one year back at about 10 AM in the
morning. On the day of occurrence she was collecting fire-wood in
the bush. She deposed that her husband had received the news of
the illness of their elder daughter and accordingly asked their
younger daughter, the victim, to infom me. She deposed further
that when her daughter reached the entrance gate of the SDJM(M)
Court at Bilasipara, the accused informed her that her mother, pw
4, is collecting fire-wood in a particular direction. Thereafter, the
accused caught hold of the victim, dragged her and started to
remove her under-garments in the jungle area. Her daughter
started shouting and she resisted the acts of the accused. She
somehow managed to come out of the grip of accused by pushing
him. Thereafter, as deposed to by pw 4, the victim immediately
returned to the residence and informed her husband. Pw 4 further

deposed that on the following day, the accused came to work in a
eCourtIS Copy
Hotel inside the SDJM(M), Court campus. She along with others

went to Court campus where the victim identified the accused. The
accused also admitted in front of us that he had dragged the

victim and removed her under garments.

13. PW4 in her cross examination stated that she came to her
residence at about 11-30 AM. She also deposed that she had gone
to the place of occurrence after coming to know about the
incident. She denied the suggestion that in and around the Court
complex police personnel always remain present. She denied the

suggestion that she has deposed falsely.

14. PW5 Md. Romis Ali deposed that the informant is his
younger brother. The incident took place about one year ago. He
was grazing his cows near the SDJM complex, when he heard noise
coming from a crowd of people. He saw his younger brother, the
father of victim, and he asked him about the incident to which he
informed that yesterday while his daughter, the victim, was going
to call her mother from the jungle, the accused dragged his
daughter and attempted to remove her clothes but his daughter

managed to escape.

15. PW6 xxx, the father of the victim, deposed that the
occurrence took place about one year back at 10-11 PM. He was in
his house. His wife had gone to pick fire-woods. At that time he
received a phone call from his elder daughter that she is ill. He
asked his younger daughter, the victim, to call her mother from
the bushes and the victim went to call his wife. Pw 6 further

deposed that just near the SDJM Court highway, the accused met
eCourtIS Copy

his daughter and informed her that her mother is picking fire-
woods in a particular direction. His daughter followed the accused.
At a lonely place, the accused grabbed his daughter and tried to
open her under-garments. His daughter somehow managed to
escape from the clutches of accused and after coming to house
she reported the matter to him. Thereafter, Pw 6, alongwith some
villagers, went in search of the accused. Some boys near a stall
informed him that they have noticed a boy running towards the
jungle and also told him that the boy works in a hotel in the Court
campus. On the following day, pw 6 alongwith his daughter went
to the Hotel in the Court campus where his daughter identified the

accused. Thereafter, he lodged the FIR.

16. PW6 in cross-examination stated that there are lots of
houses near his house. There is a grocery shop near his house. He
denied the suggestion that due to enmity with the accused he had

lodged a false case.

17. PW7 Sri Joseph L. Zate, the Investigating Officer, deposed

about the investigation conducted in this case.

18. In cross-examination, PW7 stated that he found the accused
near the Court campus. He had recorded the statement of the
witnesses at the place of occurrence, but not all the persons who
were present. There were more than 100 persons present in the
place of occurrence. He had not recorded the statement of security
personnel present in an around the Court complex. Pw 7 also
deposed that had not submitted the extract copy of GD Entry

alongwith the charge sheet. He does not know if the accused was
eCourtIS Copy

working in a Tea-stall. He had not seized the wearing apparel of
the victim which she was wearing at the time of occurrence. The

victim had refused her medical examination.

19. Now, Section 7 of the POCSO Act, provides that whoever,
with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of a
child, or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus, or breast
of such person or any other persons, or does any other act with
sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration

is said to commit sexual assault.

20. So far as the evidence of the victim girl is concerned, she is
aged about 11 years. She is studying in class-VIl. Her evidence is
unequivocal in terms of the chain of events. The narration of the
events as it happened has been described vividly. The victim, who
was searching for her mother, was first misdirected by the accused
to go to a place falsely inducing her to believe that her mother had
gone to that particular direction. When the victim proceeded to
that direction, the accused grabbed her, fell her on the ground and
then attempted to remove her under-garments. The examination-
in-chief of the victim, is found to be cohesive and believable. Now,
even though the defence has suggested motive of enmity but no
circumstances or any other materials have been elicited from the
prosecution witnesses as to why the victim would falsely implicate

the accused.

21. Admittedly, there are no eye-witnesses to the incident
except the victim herself. However, since the victim is found to be

believable the onus, in view of Section 29 of the Act, would shift on
eCourtIS Copy

the accused to establish by cogent evidence as to why the
proscution evidence, with respect to the charge against him,
should be discarded. The cross-examination of the victim or for
that matter any other witnesses has not been able to belie the
testimony of the victim hence, the heavy onus placed on the

accused stands not discharged.

22. In view of the definition provided for sexual assault in
Section 7 of the POCSO Act, the act of accused in pulling the
victim, felling her and trying to remove her under-garments, falls
within the ambit of sexual assault and the sexual intent is explicitly
gathered from the circumstances. The point for determination is

thus answered in affirmative.

23. | have heard the accused on the point of sentence. He
submits that he has spent about 10 months in jail as under trial
prisoner hence he may sentenced for the period already

undergone.

24. The offence under Section 8 of the POCSO Act attracts a
punishment which shall not be less than three years but which
may extend to five years. The victim was only 11 years old at the
time of occurrence. Had the victim not taken a strong evasive
action she could have been easily overpowered by the accused but
for the good fortune an aggravated assault on the victim was
averted. The only mitigating circumstance appearing in favour of
the accused is his conduct during trial. He attended the Court
diligently during trial. Hence, considering all aspects and the facts

of this case, | believe a sentence of three years of rigorous
eCourtIS Copy

imprisonment would meet the ends of justice.
ORDER

Accused Md. Mofizul Sheikh is convicted of the offence under
Section 8 of the POCSO Act. He is sentenced to suffer rigorous
imprisonment for three years and to pay a fine of Rs 1000/- in
default to suffer further imprisonment for 2 months.
A recommendation is also made to the District Legal Service
Authority, Kokrajhar, for considering payment of adequate
compensation to the victim under Section 357A CrPC.
A free copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused.
A copy of the judgment be also furnished to Sri Ratan Jhangkar
Borgoyary, Legal Aid Counsel.
A copy of the judgment be also sent to District Magistrate,
Kokrajhar.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court

Dictated by: -

Addl. Special Judge(FTC), Addl. Special Judge(FTC),
Kokrajhar, Kokrajhar
10
eCourtIS Copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-

Exhibit-1 FIR

Exhibit-2 Sketch Map

Exhibit-3 Charge sheet
2.Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1 Victim
P.W.2 Ayesha Bibi
P.W.3 Abu Bakkar Ali
P.W.4 Mother of victim
P.W.5 Md. Romis Ali
P.W.6 Father of victim
P.W.7 Sri Joseph Z. Zate
4.Defence Witness Nil
5. Court witness Nil

Addl. Special Judge(FTC),
Kokrajhar
