Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC), SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused
u/s 313 of Cr. B.C

Date of Argument

18 of 2019

(Under Section 364/511/34 of IPC r/w
Section 4/17 of Protection of Children

From Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, Arising

out of GR Case No 438 of 2018)

R. Baruah
Special Judge(FTC),
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
State of Assam
-Vs-
1.Md Ekramul Ali @ Kaltu,
S/o Md Saiful Islam,
Resident of Khagorijan, Thelamara,
PS — Thelamara,
Dist- Sonitpur, Assam,
2.Md Mubarak Ali,
S/o Md Nurul Amin,
3.Msstt Mejufa Khatoon,
W/o Md Mubarak Ali,
Both are R/O of No.3 Rongagora,
PS — Dhekiajuli,
Dist- Sonitpur, Assam
20-08-2018.

22-05-2018, 21-06-2018, 17-07-2018,
03-08-2018, 13-09-2018, 14-09-2018,
29-11-2018, 21-06-2019, 19-07-2019.

30-08-2019.

24-09-2019.
Page |2

Date of Judgment - 03-10-2019.

Counsel of the Prosecution - A Baruah & J Baruah,
Learned Addl. Public Prosecutors,
Tezpur.

Counsel for Accused :- B Borthakur,

Learned Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md Ekramul Ali @ Kaltu is put for trial for the
allegation of charge under Section 363/511/34 of IPC, r/w Section 4 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act (hereinafter referred to as ‘POCSO Act’), accused
Md Mubarak Ali is put for trial for the allegation of charge under Section 363/511/34
of IPC, r/w Section 17 of POCSO Act and accused Mejufa Khatoon @ Begum is put
for trial for the allegation of charge under Section 17 of POCSO Act.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 02-02-2018 informant lodged
FIR before the Dhekiajuli PS stating inter alia prior to two months of lodging of the
FIR accused Mubarak asked her daughter “X” to bring his clothes from his house.
Accordingly, her daughter went to the house of Mubarak and when she went inside
the house for bringing the clothes and then, accused Mejufa locked the door from
outside and thereafter, accused Ekramul (who was concealing in the room prior to
her arrival) committed rape on her forcibly. Though, initially her daughter did not
disclose the matter to her out of fear, but, on 01-02-2018 her daughter stated that
she was raped by Ekramul before two months and accused Mejufa abetted to

Ekramul in commission of the crime.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C, Dhekiajuli Police Station registered the
case vide Dhekiajuli PS 105/18 under Section 109/376 of IPC, r/w Section 4/6 of
POCSO Act. Police, after completion of investigation, submitted charge sheet against
the accused Md Mubarak Ali and Ekramul Ali under Section 4/6 of POCSO Act for

trial.
Page |3

4. On appearance of the accused and after hearing the learned Advocate
for both the sides, charge under Section 363/511/34 of IPC, r/w Section 4 of POCSO
Act framed against the accused Md Ekramul Ali, Section 363/511/34 of IPC, r/w
Section 17 of POCSO Act against accused Md Mubarak Ali and Section 17 of POCSO
Act against the accused Mejufa Khatoon @ Begum. The above charges are read over
and explained to the accused respectively to which they pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried. Initially, the charges were framed against the accused Md
Ekramul Ali and Md Mubarak Ali only. But, during trial, charges are altered after
recording evidence of informant, and accused Mejufa Khatoon is added as one of the

accused in the present case under Section 319 of the CrPC.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined as many as
8(eight) nos. of witnesses including the victim namely 1. Md Phurkan Ali (PW1), 2.
Md Majibur Rahman (PW2), 3. Pinky Sultana (PW3), 4.Msstt Nazima Begum (PW4),
5. Miss “X” (victim, 6. Dr Dwipen Mahanta (PW6), 7.Dr Amarjit Kour (PW7) & 8. Md
Taibur Rahman (IO).

6. Accused were examined under section 313 Cr.P.C. The defence plea is

of total denial and declined to adduce defence evidence.

7. I have carefully gone through the record of the case and heard the
learned Counsel for both the sides.

The learned Addl. Public Prosecutors submits that Mubarak sent the victim to
his house in conspiracy with the accused Ikramul. The accused Ikramul committed
rape on the victim. Initially the victim did not informed mother. On 1/2/2018 the
accused attempted to kidnap the victim. The victim gave her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C
statement. She was a student of class- IX (nine). Accused Mezufa conspired and
allowed the victim to be with the accused Ikramul. Mezufa facilitated the act. Initially,
victim reported the matter to her sister. One Abdul Matin rescued her. Victim stated
in the court also the same fact. Document of age of victim is in the court. Certificate
of school is in the record. Court come to the conclusion that the age of the victim is
less and hence the same is registered under POCSO Act. The PW1 and PW2 are
hearsay witness. Mezufa (accused) is aunty of PW2 and hence, he will naturally not

speak against them. PW3 is vital for the prosecution. PW3 is the elder sister of the
Page |4

victim. She said that the victim was raped by the accused Ikramul. She said that
during celebration of Republic Day, victim fell down and thereafter she disclosed that
she was raped by the accused Ikramul. Ikramul played the music in higher decibel
and committed the rape. The PW3 corroborated the fact of attempt to kidnap the
victim. PW4 is the informant. She came to know about the pregnancy of her
daughter after the incident of kidnapping. She said that at the time of occurrence the
age of the victim was about 14 years and studying in class VIII (eight). House of
Mubarak is at a secluded place. The mother has corroborated the evidence of the
other witnesses. Mezufa fled hence her conduct be noted. Her daughter suffered
miscarriage. Out of fear she stopped going to the school. Doctor said that the victim
is pregnant. In cross examination of the PW4 there are only suggestion. THE fact of
flag hoisting in the school mentioned by the PW3 and PW5. The PW5 is the victim.
Her statement is vital in the case because, she is the only person who suffered the
most. She narrated all the fact. Mubarak asked her to bring the clothes. Then
Ikramul held and felled me on the ground. Mezufa locked the door. Music played in
high volume. The accused raped her. She shouted but not heard due to the high
volume music in the house. She was threatened by the accused not to disclose the
matter to anybody. On the republic day she fell down. Out of fear she did not
disclosed to mother. She said that accused Ikramul and Mubarak and an unknown
person tried to lift her on the motor cycle. After the incident of attempt of kidnap she
informed full fact to her mother. Here also Mezufa fled away. She suffered
miscarriage. No material contradiction brought in the cross examination of the PW5
by the defence.

If the statement of the victim is believable, the accused can be convicted
without corroboration. Cross examination also supported the prosecution. PW6 is the
doctor. The pregnancy is positive. THIS IS POCSO CASE. THE VERSION OF THE
DOCTOR IS NOT RELEVANT.

PW 8 is the IO. He has confirmed the facts narrated by the victim. Police
went to the place of occurrence after making a G D Entry.

As per the Act the penetration is not necessary. The prosecution has proved
the guilt of the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. The mental trauma be

considered in sentencing the accused.
Page |5

Defense Argument

The incident occurred in three stage. First before 5/6 months. Then 26
January. And then the kidnapping. The FIR lodge on 2/2/2018. Please see the FIR.
Informant lodge by mother of the victim. But the witness (sister of victim) said that
incident took place about 3-4 months back. No reason for the delay in lodging the
FIR. Why in the FIR there is no mention of threatening by the accused. No articles/
clothes did not seized during the investigation. PW1- caught by police. No mention of
villagers or public. The PW1 and PW2 said misdeed committed hence, this should not
be taken as rape. PW3 is most important witness. Incident took place 5-6 months
ago. But the mother said that incident took about 2 months ago. All the witnesses
have mentioned different time of occurrence. Where is the tape recorder?

The learned Advocate for the accused raise question as to why the IO did
not examined witness from the school? Why Abdul Matin not examined by the
prosecution? These shows that the prosecution has concealed something. Hue and
cry could not be heard because of tape recorder. Why the tape recorder not seized
by the IO. No music system was in the house. PW3 did not state before the police
and Ld. Magistrate what she stated before the court. Which one should be believed?
The victim has developed the facts.

PW4 is hearsay witness. She said that many people gathered. Why the police
only recorded the statement of the relatives? Who apprehended the accused during
alleged attempt to kidnap? Why the clothes of the accused is not seized. The clothes
are vital because, the clothes are the starting point of the incident. Why victim
without permission entered into the house? She knew that there was somebody
inside the house. If the accused has threatened, how she has been attending the
school. Why FIR not filed? One witness said that people who gathered informed the
police. At some time the witness said that Matin informed the matter. Hence, there
are three FIR. Miscarriage shows intention. Why the police was not informed during
investigation about the miscarriage. The PW4 said that the accused slapped the
victim which is not mentioned by the victim herself. Victim is not attending the
classes. The PW4 said that at the age of five victim started attending school. Then
where is the certificate? She forgot the date of birth of her son. But said that
23/3/2004 is the date of birth of the victim. The school certificate collected after the
investigation. She only remembers the date of birth of the victim. These show that

the PW4 is knowingly trying to implicate the accused. PW4 did not applied for birth
Page |6

certificate till date. How she remembers the age of the victim? The headmaster of
the school not examined by the prosecution to prove the age of the victim. The PW4
Said different names of the school where the victim attended. The name of the
Headmaster said by the PW4 but not examined by the prosecution. Transfer
Certificate is with the PW4 where the actual date of birth is mentioned. PW4 said it is
a fact that earlier regarding elopement of a maid servant meeting held in her house.
Why the victim concealed the fact of vomiting in the school. These shows
consenting. PW5 is the victim. According to her there are two rooms in the house of
the accused Mubarak. Why the father did not heard the cries of the victim? The
accused never send the victim to bring clothes. Till six months the victim did not
informed about the pregnancy. Why? Why the police not informed? Flag hoisting is
done in presence of many person. Why she did not informed the matter to the
teacher and other students of the school. Why the sister did not state the matter to
their mother. These shows that she has some weakness towards the accused. Why
the persons who found the victim during attempt to kidnap not examined by the
police. Why Matin withheld by the prosecution? Had Matin was examined, the facts
of the case would have been otherwise. Matin would have supported the victim, then
why not examined. She said to everybody. Why then the villagers not examined by
the prosecution. Cross Examinationthe PW5 said inter alia that I often used to meet
Matin. Student used the said road. Matin apprehended the accused Ikramul and
Mubarak. The PW5 said that she was coming from tution pushing the bicycle. Then
where is the bicycle? Bicycle is needed to show that she really went for tuition. The
PW5 said that House of Mubarak has one room. Then where the music system was
played? The victim knowingly concealed the exact date of stoppage of monthly cycle.
The victim was major.Why she did not visit the doctor after 26" January, this show
intention of the victim. No documents of miscarriage is placed before the court. Lock
of house of accused Mubarak not seized by the police, Why? Her intention is there
hence, she entered into the house. She did not shouted when Mezufa locked the
room. There are lots of contradictions. She did not state to police and court that
she was pulled and fell on the ground. Undressing not stated to the police.
Threatening and defamation by acused not stated to police or to the Magistrate.
Vomiting not mentioned to the police and the magistrate. The victim could not

conceal the truth.
Page |7

The PW8 — Taibur Rahman. (Investigation officer). He was informed
that in the house Mubarak the bad act was done. This shows that there is already
four FIR. At 11.00PM the police was informed over phone that victim subjected to
bad act. The word rape is not mentioned. The PW4 said FIR lodged on 2/2/2018.
Before the lodging of FIR the investigation was conducted. Recorded the statements
of the witnesses and arrested the accused. On the basis of the phone call the PW8
went to the house of Mubarak in presence of villagers. He asked the informant to
come to the police station on the next day. He submitted the charge sheet against
two accused. No material found against the accused Mejufa. Exact date of
occurrence not enquired. Extract copy of GD Entry not submitted by the IO.
Admitted by the IO that he has not submitted the extract copy of GD Entry. On the
basis of the GD entry the statement of the witnesses is recorded. PW8 said that
mother gave him the school certificate, which is issued on 8/3/2018 i.e after the
incident. The cross examination of the PW8 will show the major contradiction in the
statements of the witnesses. The victim has not divulge some major facts to the IO
during investigation. There is no note in the case diary that earlier also they
approach the police but they refused. No sketch map of place of occurrence i.e the
river bank is shown by the IO.

Mubarak is no way involved. Because the door was not locked. The fact of
locking the door not mentioned by the witnesses to the investigating officer.

The school certificate is not exhibited hence not proved. The headmaster not
examined. As per the school certificate the victim is minor. Actual age can be
determined by doctor and birth certificate. Certificate of first school not placed. The
school certificate is manipulated one. The certificate is issued after the date of
alleged occurrence. The victim is not minor. The victim is major. The certificate is
withheld and headmaster is also withheld. Why? The seal in the certificate is
different. The seal is prepared by the parties. Why DNA test not conducted? The
police failed in their duties. If 18 years than it should be added more two years i.e 20
years.

No requisition number in the medical certificate. Doctor said all organs are
developed. Hence the doctor said that the victim was major. Exhibit- 3 there is not

reference of requisition and case number.
Page |8

8. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) “Whether the accused Md Ekramul Ali and Md
Mubarak Ali, on 01-02-2018 at village NO.2
Rongagora under Dhekiajuli PS, in further of
common intention, attempted to kidnap Miss "X",
aged about 14 years (minor girl) from her lawful
guardianship ?

(2) Whether the accused Md Ekaramul Ali, prior to
about two months from 01-02-2018, at Rongagora
under Dhekiajuli PS, committed penetrative sexual
assault to Miss "X", aged about 14 years minor
girl?

(3) Whether the accused Md Mubarak Ali and
Mejufa Khatoon @ Begum, prior to two months
from 01-02-2018, at Rongagora under Dhekiajuli
PS, abetted to commit an offence under the
provisions of POCSO Act, 2012 by accused

Ekramul?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

 

9. Before appreciating the evidences adduced by the parties, I deem it fit

to reflect the summaries of evidence of the witnesses.

10. PW 11 stated that he came to know form the villagers that Ekramul and
Mubarak were caught by the police from the house of Mubarak. Other than that he
knew nothing. Then the witness is declared hostile to the prosecution.

During cross by prosecution PW1 denied that he stated before police
that “he knows that a boy named Ekramul committed misdeed to the daughter of
Dulal about two months back in the house of Mubarak".

In his cross examination by defence PW1 said that he has not stated to police
what the learned public prosecutor suggested to him in his examination in-chief.
Accused is neither his friend nor his relative. He denied that he has only stated to the

IO that on being came to know about the arrival of police, he went to the place of
Page |9

occurrence and he does not knows about the incident took place two month ago.

11. PW2 stated the incident took place about two months ago. At the
time of incident, he went to his aunt’s (pehi) house. In the house of his aunty, he
heard that police arrived in the house of one of the accused. He does not know
anything about the incident. Police recorded his statement. Then, the witness is
declared hostile to the prosecution..

During cross by prosecution PW1 denied that he stated before police that “Ae
heard a sound from the house of Dulal and also heard from somebody of his village
that Ekramul committed misdeed to the daughter of Dulal’.

In his cross by defence PW1 said that he does not know the name and
address of the accused persons. Accused persons are neither his friend nor his
relative. None of the person informed him about the incident. He did not state

anything to police other than his name and address.

12. PWS- the elder sister of victim stated in her examination in-chief that
she knows the accused Ikramul and Mubarak @ Halan. Victim “X” is her younger
sister and Complainant is her mother The incident took place about 5/6 months ago.
On 26" January, 2018 when her victim sister went to school, at the time of flag
hoisting she fell down due to giddiness. Then some school mates along with teacher
took “X” to theri house. While she enquired from the victim as to why she fell so
giddiness, she reported that about 2/3 months ago Halan while fishing a tank asked
her to go to his house to bring his dress. When her sister went to the house of Halan
and entered into the house, other accused i.e Ikramul pushed her down and also
entered into the room and wife of Halan, Mijufa locked the door from outside. Then
Ikramul switched on the computer make noisy by hearing song and committed rape
upon her. On the said 26" January at about 3.00 PM her sister went to her tuition
and while returning from tuition on the way Ikramul met her and forcefully taken her
to the house of Halan. Then one Motin informed her over phone that her sister “X”
was taken forcefully by Ikramul to the house of Halan and they apprehended her
sister and accused. Then they informed police and went to the house of Halan. Police
came and arrested the accused. At present “X” resides at Silchar at the house of
Abdul Hamid.

During cross examination by defence, PW3 said that police recorded her
Page |10

statement. PW3 denied that she has not stated to police what she said stated in her
examination in-chief. PW3 denied that she stated to police that prior to this incident,
my victim sister “X” did not stated anything and that accused committed any

misdeed to her.

LS, PW4 the mother of victim stated in her examination in chief that the
victim is her daughter. She know the accused. The occurrence took palce prior to
2(two) months of filing the FIR. About 4-5 months back, she lodged the FIR. One
scribe writer wrote the FIR as per the her version and version of her daughter. At the
time of incident the age of her daughter was about 14 years. At the time of incident,
her daughter passed Class— VIII and attended Class — IX. At that time, she was
studying in Rangagora High School. Name of the accused are Md Ikramul Ali of
Khagarijan and Md Mubarak Ali son of Noor Amin of No 3 Rongagora. She has also
lodged FIR against one Mejufa Khatoon wife of Mubarak Ali.

On 01-02-2018, while her daughter ‘X’ returning from her tuition in their
village, accused Mubarak and Ikramul along with another boy restrained her on the
way, dragged her and tried to lift her on the motorcycle. At that time, her daughter
made hue and cry. One Abdul Motin witnessed the incident and he came for her
rescue. On hearing the commotion the nearby people gathered and they caught
Ikramul and Mubarak. The people so gathered detained the accused Ikramul and
Mubarak and brought to the courtyard of Mubarak along with her daughter. Motin
informed them over phone and they rushed to the spot. She found her daughter
crying. Her daughter told her and to other people at the gathering that about two
months ago, one day, when she returned from school, she found Mubarak and her
father were fishing in our pond. Mubarak enquired from her whether she had her
lunch and when she told that she had taken her meal, then, Mubarak asked her to
bring his clothes i.e. shirt and pant from his house. Accordingly, victim went to the
house of Mubarak and she called the wife of Mubarak. On repeated call no one gave
answer and hence, she went inside the house and when she turn after picking the
clothes from inside the house, Ikramul came from behind, pushed her and felled her
on the ground inside the house and forcibly raped her. At that time, wife of Mubarak,
Mejufa Khatoon, locked the door of the house from outside and played the tap-
recorder with high volume. The victim shouted, but, she could not be heard due to

high volume of music. After committing rape, Ikramul threatened victim that if she
Page |11

discloses the said matter to others, he will kill her. Thereafter, she has been
attending her school regularly. The house of Mubarak is located in a secluded place.
What is the relation between Ikramul and Mubarak she do not know.

The people in the gathering informed the police and after arrival of
police, they took away Ikramul and Mubarak. But, Mejufa fled away and police
directed her to bring her daughter to the police station on the next day. Accordingly,
on the next day, she brought my daughter to police station and police sent her for
medical examination. After lodging the FIR, her elder daughter namely told her that
on 26-01-2018, while victim was attending Flag Hoisting in the school, she fell down
and vomited. The children of the school brought victim to the house. Then victim
disclosed before her elder daughter that about two months back she was raped by
Ikramul in the house of Mubarak. But, her elder daughter out of fear did not disclose
the matter.

After examination, the doctor declared that victim is pregnant. Police sent
her daughter to the Court for recording her statement by Magistrate. Later on, due
to some reason, her daughter suffered miscarriage.

On the day of occurrence i.e. on 01-02-2018, accused Ikramul slapped
victim very hard and as a result, presently victim is facing hearing problem. It can be
understood that the accused Mubarak conspired with Ikramul and abetted for
committing rape on her daughter.

Presently, the accused persons are threatening them over phone to
withdraw the case or else they will kidnap her daughter. Ext.1 is my ejahar and Ext.
1(1) is her signature. Out of fear, her daughter is not attending her classes. They
enrolled victim in School when she attained the age of five. At first victim attended
No 3 Rongagora Madhyamik Vidyalaya and thereafter from Class-V she is attending
Rongagora High School.

During cross by defence, the PW4 stated that Pinky is elder to victim.
Pinky has already got married. She have three sons. She forgot date of birth of her
eldest son, but, presently, he is aged about 23 years. After four years the other
dauther born. Her age is presently 20 years. She forgot in which year the other
daughter born. After six years of birth of other daughter, victim born i.e. on 23-03-
2004. After victim, another son was born and thereafter in the year 2008 the third
son born. They have not applied for the birth certificate of victim. At the time of first

admission of victim, they had placed Immunization Card of victim, but, we have not
Page |12

given Birth Certificate. She admitted victim first in the No.3 Rongagora Madhyamik
Jatiya Vidyalara. In this year i.e. 2018, she admitted victim in Rongagora High
School. She knows that Rongagora High School is a High School. But, there are
classes of college level also. Up to class X classes, in Rongagora High School. The
name of the headmaster of Rangagora High School is Nizam. They know him as
Nizam. The transfer certificate of Jatiya Bidyalaya was not place before the police. In
the Class-VIII transfer certificate her date of birth was same. All my children except
the other duaghter, used to reside in the same house. About three years back the
other daughter got married. On 01-02-2018, She came to know about the whole
incident and on the next date, she lodged the FIR. On 01-02-2018 itself they along
with the villagers narrated the incident to the police so disclosed by victim. Police
recorded the same. One lady scribe in front of Dhekiajuli PS wrote the FIR.

She denied that she has not mentioned the fact so stated in the
examination-in-chief and in the ejahar. Victim only disclosed the matter of
commission of rape, to her elder sister. The elder daughter also did not disclose the
matter of rape on victim to her prior to 01-02-2018. She has not enquired from the
doctor regarding the period of pregnancy of victim. She did not come to know prior
to lodging of FIR regarding stoppage of menstrual cycle of victim. This matters are
not generally discussed. She denied that her daughter ‘xX’ willingly maintained
physical relationship with Ikramul and did not disclose the same to her. She denied
that that she deposed falsely. On the day of commission of rape, Mubarak sent
victim to his house for bringing his clothes. She do not know whether the clothes so
asked by accused Mubarak were seized by police. She denied that she deposed
falsely that on the day of incident i.e. commission of rape on ‘X’ sound/music played
outside the house of Mubarak in loud volume. She denied that she deposed falsely
that accused Ikramul slapped hard on ‘X’ and because of that she is facing hearing
problem. She denied that she deposed falsely that Mubarak has conspired with
Ikramul in committing rape on ‘Xx’.

She denied that her hasband has demanded Rs.2,00,000/- from the
accused persons for withdrawing the case. PW4 denied that prior to this incident, ‘x’
eloped with another boy and regarding that matter a meeting (Mel) held in their
village. She denied that while Ikramul was inside the jail, they family members
wanted that he be their son-in-law. She denied that Ikramul declared that he do not

love ‘*X’ and do not want to marry her. After two days of lodging the ejahar she
Page |13

might had taken victim to Tumuki hospital as she complained of stomach pain.
Doctor told that her daughter is pregnant and prescribe some medicines. PW4
denied that they have facilitated miscarriage on ‘XxX’. The PW4 denied that that age of
her daughter is more than 18 years as per other documents and report of doctor. On
the day of lodging FIR, ‘X’ was brought to the Court for recording her statement.
PW4 denied that ‘X’ became pregnant due to her own fault. PW4 denied that ‘Xx’
knew that Ikramul was alone in the house of Mubarak and she came to know about
the same from Mubarak. PW4 denied that when ‘X’ went to bring the clothes of

Mubarak there occurred no incident of rape on ‘Xx’.

14. PW5 the victim stated in her examination in-chief said that her mother
is the informant. She knows both the accused. About 8 months ago one day when
she came to home from school she found her father towards the backyard fishing in
the pond with the accused Mubarak. She after taking meal went to see the fishing.
Then the accused Mubarak asked her to bring his clothes (pant and shirt) from his
house. She went to his house, which is situated about 1km away. On reaching his
house she called his wife Mejufa but nobody answered. Hence, she entered into the
house and took the clothes (pant & shirt) of Mubarak and when she wanted to come
out, accused Ikramul pushed her and felled her on the ground. She noticed that
Mejufa Khatoon came and locked the door from outside and put on music box in high
volume in another room. Accused Ikramul forcibly opened her clothes and raped her.
She cried for help but nobody came for help. The house of Mubarak is at an isolated
place, surrounded by paddy field. After committing rape Ikramul warned her that if
she discloses the matter of rape to any other person, he will kill her and defame her
in public. She cried and left for home. Out of fear she didn’t disclosed the matter to
anybody. On the occasion of Republic Day (26 January), during flag hoisting at
school she fell down and vomit. Her friends brought her to her home. Again she
vomit in the house. She disclosed the matter of rape on her by Ikramul and narrated
the complete facts to her elder sister. Her sister asked her not to disclose the matter
to mother else she will scold her and Ikramul will kill her. She also asked my sister
not to disclose the matter to anybody. On 1% February 2018 when she was coming
from tuition pushing her bicycle at around 3.00PM, near the bank of river Belsiri,
Ikramul, Mubarak and one unknown person came near her riding a motor cycle and

forcibly tried to lift her on the motor cycle. She raised alarm. Then a person named
Page |14

Matin came forward and asked the matter. She informed Matin that the accused are
trying to forcibly kidnap her. During that time people of village gathered and took
them to the house of Mubarak. The other associate of Ikramul and Mubarak fled
away. She gave the phone number of her brother-in -law to Matin and asked him to
inform her family members. Her mother and sister came to the house of Mubarak.
She told her mother and the people who gathered at that place that Ikramul has
raped her two months ago. Villagers informed the police. Police came and took away
Ikramul and Mubarak but Mejufa Khatoon fled away. Mejufa Khatoon is the wife of
Mubarak. As it was already dark police asked them to come to the police station for
lodging FIR. On the next day her mother lodged FIR. Her mother and sister took her
to the police station. She narrated the incident to the police. Police took her to the
doctor for medical examination and also brought her to the court for recording her
statement by the magistrate. Doctor informed that she is pregnant. After about 1-2
week she suffered miscarriage, and treated by doctor. The magistrate recorded her
statement and read over to her and thereafter she signed in the statement. She was
escorted to the magistrate with a lady constable. Exhibit-2 is her statement and
Exhibit-2(1), 2(2) and 2(3) are her signatures. She know the meaning of rape i.e
penetration of penis into vagina forcibly.

PW5 stated during cross-examination that on 1° February she was returning
from her tuition alone pushing the bicycle. The accused Ikramul, Mubarak and their
associate met her near the Belsiri river road. PW5 denied that she often used to
meet Ikramul while going to school and coming from school. Matin is a co-villager.
He is not related to her family. His home is at Nagaon but resides in her village.

During school and tuition time other people used to go through the said road.
On the day of incident i.e. on 1 February, she initially shouted then Matin came
forward. Matin apprehended both Mubarak and Ikramul and called her family
members over phone. Matin took her, Ikramul and Mubarak to the house of Mubarak.
Villager called the police. Pinki informed the police over phone. The police post is
about 5 to 6 kilometer from the house of Mubarak. Police enquired the matter from
her sister, mother, brother and Matin. On the next day they went to the police station
with mother, as on the previous day it became dark. After the incident, her sister
took away the bicycle to her house from the spot. At the place of occurrence i.e.
near the river when people gathered her mother and sister also came to the spot

and thereafter her sister took away the bicycle to her house. Police has not seized
Page |15

the bicycle. When they reached the house of Mubarak, they met Mejufa in the house.
Her sister came later on after keeping the bicycle. The house of Mubarak has 1 (one)
room. From the house of Mubarak police took away both Mubarak and Ikramul.
Police has not seized her clothes, locks of house of Mubarak on 1* February. Police
has not seized the music system of Mubarak on 1% February or thereafter. She does
not remember the date on which Ikramul raped her, but he committed the same in
the year 2017. About 1 (one) month prior to lodging the FIR, Ikramul raped her. She
do not remember from which month she stopped having the monthly cycle. She
didn’t informed the matter of not having the monthly cycle to mother. She informed
the fact to her sister on 26" January. As Ikramul threatened with life and also to
defame her, she out of fear did not informed the matter to her family members and
friends. After 26" January, after coming to know about the facts, her sister had not
taken any steps against the accused Ikramul. She didn’t informed the matter to the
authority of the school after the incident of 26™ January. Her sister asked her not to
inform parents regarding the matter of rape, else they will beat her.

After falling down in the school on 26" January, she didn’t go for check-up by
doctor. After lodging the FIR police examined her by a doctor. The doctor said that
she is pregnant. She has not enquired from the doctor the period of her pregnancy.

Doctor examined the report of ultra sound. Doctor has not explained to her
the nature of her pregnancy. She informed her family members falsely prior to
examination by doctor that she is having regular menstruation cycle. After 1-2 weeks
of lodging the FIR, she undergone with severe abdominal pain and loss of blood.
Then her mother took her to the Tezpur Medical College Hospital. The doctor of civil
hospital didn’t referred her for treatment to other hospital. She do not know where
and at which place she suffered the miscarriage. She suspect that she undergone the
miscarriage in the home. After the miscarriage her mother informed the matter to
the police but, didn’t informed the doctor who examined her at Civil Hospital. In
what manner her mother informed the police regarding the miscarriage, she is not
aware. She has not taken any type of medicine during her pregnancy. The
documents relating to her treatment at Tezpur Medical is with them. The documents
of her treatment at Medical College may be with mother.

PW5 denied that she became pregnant as a result of her illicit relation and
with her consent she undergone miscarriage.

When the doctor examined her at Civil Hospital, she was alone with the
Page |16

doctor. The documents of her treatment at civil hospital is with the police, and the
documents of treatment at Tezpur Medical College is with her mother. PW5 denied
that after the arrest of the accused her mother and father went to the jail to meet
Ikramul personally.

The distance between her house (pond of their house) and the house of
Mubarak is about 2 Kilometer. She has not shown the clothes of Mubarak to the
police and police also did not inquired regarding the clothes of Mubarak from her.
After reaching the hose of Mubarak on the day of incident, she called Mejufa as
“baidew..baidew” but nobody responded. The door of the house of Mubarak was
open. When Ikramul felled her on the ground, Mejufa came out of other room and
locked the room from outside and played music in high volume. Later on, Mejufa
unlocked the door. The door was made of wood, with two parts. Police first brought
her to the court and then to the hospital. Thereafter they again went to the police
station and thereafter returned to home. Mejufa locked the door with help of chain.
Police has not seized the chain and lock from the house of Mubarak.

PW5 denied that she went into the house of Mubarak on her own and nobody
sent her to that place. On the day of lodging the FIR, police enquired about the
incident from her. On the date of lodging the FIR, police brought her to the court for
recording her statement. PW5 denied that she did not stated before the police and
the magistrate that when she attempted to come out with the clothes, Ikramul
pushed her and felled her on the ground.

PW5 denied that she did not state before the police and the Magistrate that
Ikramul forcibly undressed her, that she did not stated before the police and the
Magistrate that she cried for help but nobody came forward, that she did not stated
before police and Magistrate that the house of Mubarak is situated at an isolated
place and surrounded by paddy fields, that she didn’t stated before the police and
Magistrate that after committing the rape the accused Ikramul threatened her with
life and also about defaming her, that she didn’t stated to police and the Magistrate
that on the occasion of Republic Day she felled down and vomit, that she did not
stated to police and the Magistrate that in the house again she vomit and then she
disclosed the fact of rape to her elder sister, that she didn’t stated to the police and
Magistrate that she disclosed the matter to her sister and she asked her not to
disclose the same to her parents else they will beat her and she also asked her sister

not to disclose the matter, that she didn’t state to police and Magistrate that she told
Page |17

Matin that the accused persons are trying to kidnap her and at that time the villagers
gathered and took them to the house of Mubarak, that she didn’t state to Police and
Magistrate that she gave phone number of her brother —in —law and asked him to
inform her family members, that she didn’t stated to police and magistrate that after
arrival of her mother and sister she disclosed before the villagers that two months
ago Ikramul raped her, that she didn’t state to police and magistrate that after arrival
of police Mejufa fled away, that she didn’t state to the police and Magistrate that
police asked them to come to the police station on the next morning as it was
already dark.

PW5 denied that she has deposed falsely that Ikramul raped her and Mejufa
locked the door, that Mubarak sent her to bring his clothes, and Mejufa helped
Ikramul in any way. PW5 denied that she never become pregnant due to Ikramul.

PW5 denied that Mejufa never locked the door of her house, nor played the
music system in high volume, that no such incident occurred on the occasion of
Republic Day in her school, that the accused Ikramul and Mubarak never tried to
kidnap her while she was returning from tuition, that Matin never took her, Ikramul
and Mubarak to the house of Mubarak.

PW5 denied that she willingly suppressed the matter from everybody and
when she undergone physical change and enquired about the matter she was
compelled to narrate a story. PW5 denied that the miscarriage is done by her and
family members after discussion.

PW5 denied that accused persons never threatened her. She do not know
Hekim Ali, Lokman Ali. PW5 denied that about one month from today she entered

into a wedlock with Lokman Ali of Khagorijan.

15. PW6 said that on 03-02-2018 Urine sample of “X”, age 14 years was
tested for HCG and the result was positive. Ext.3 is his report and Ext.3 (1) is his
signature.

During cross examination by defence PW6 said that when HCG is positive,

one of the cause of pregnancy.

16. PW7 the medical officer stated that —
“On 02-02-18, I was posted as St M & HO at Kanaklata Civil Hospital,
Tezpur. On that day, at about 1.50 PM in reference to Dhekiajuli Police Station PS
Page |18

case No 105/18 under Section 109/376 of the IPC, I have examined one patient
(victim) namely "X” on being escorted and identified by WHG Kunjalata Kakoti. I
have examined the victim on 02-02-18 at 1.50 PM in the emergency and labour room
of the complex of the Kanaklata Civil Hospital in presence of GNM kKobita Bora vide
hospital Reg No 889/E/18 and found the following:
Consent for examination was taken from her mother prior to
examination.
Menstrual History: Regular. LMP- three months back.
O/CE: |
Height — 153cm,
weight — 35.5 kgs,
Teeth — 7/7-7/7.
Identification mark: A longitudinal scar just above the medtal border of left eyebrow.
At the time of examination she was well dressed, neat and tidy. Her
secondary sexual characters are well developed. Built average. Gait normal. Nipple
and areola blacken. No mark of injury was seen on her body and private parts.
Hymen absent.
Investigation and reports:
1. Vaginal smear for spermatozoa — No sperm seen. Done at KCH Laboratory,
Lab No 14/18 dated 02-02-2018.
2. X-ray of left wrist joint, elbow and iliac crest for determination of age —Age of
the person under investigation appears to be just over 18 years.
3. USC of Pelvis : Gravid uterus with an active 12.3 weeks feotus.
(X-ray and USG were done at AXCAL. Patient ID — AXC-18 dated 03-02-2018,
Radiologist — Dr PK Barman)//
4, Urine for HCG — Positive (done at AXCAL. Patient IC — 34237 dated 03-02-
2018, Pathologist Dr D Mahanta)

Opinion:

1. No sign and symptoms of recent sexual intercourse.

2. No mark of violence was seen on her body and private parts.
3. Her age appears to be just over 18 years.
4.

, At the time of examination she was pregnant.
Page |19

Enclosure:
1. Hospital advice slip,
Vaginal Smear report,
Urine HCG report,
X-ray plate & report,
USG film and repot.
Ext.4 is the medical report and Ext.4(1), is my signatures.”

mW A WN

In her Cross examination PW7 said that —

“In my opinion part I have not mentioned the duration of pregnancy

though I written in my report’.

17. PW8 the investigating officer said that on 01-02-2018 he was posted
at Dhekiajuli PS as SI of police. On that day, at about 11.30 PM, one Nazima Begum
over phone informed the OC, Dhekiajuli PS that her daughter has been subjected to
bad act in the house of Mubarak Ali. As per direction of OC, Dhekiajuli PS, he along
with staff left for Rongagora. After reaching the house of Mubarak they noticed that
inside the house of Mubarak many villagers has cordon Mubarak and Ikramul @
Kaltu. He also found the victim “X” and her mother. He interrogated the accused and
some witnesses on the spot. The villagers and victim informed that the wife of
Mubarak was also involved in the incident, but, at that time she fled away from the
spot. He brought Ikramul @ Kaltu and Mubarak to police station. As no woman police
accompanied him, he asked the complainant to bring the victim to the police station
on the next day. Accordingly, the complainant brought the victim to the police station
on the next morning and also submitted the FIR. The OC, endorsed the FIR to him
for investigation. He took steps for recording the statement of victim by the hon’ble
Magistrate and also issued requisition for examination of victim by doctor. During
investigation, he collected the medical report of the victim. The doctor amongst
others reported that the victim is pregnant. He prepared the sketch of the place of
occurrence. After completion of investigation, he submitted the charge sheet against
the accused Ikramul and Mubarak. As he did not found any material against accused

Mejufa, charge sheet was not filed against her.
Page |20

Ext.5 is the sketch map of the place of occurrence and Ext.5(1) is his
signature. Ext.6 is the charge sheet and Ext. 6(1) is his signature.

He has recorded the statement of PW1 Furkan Ali. The said PW1 stated
before him that “two months back Ikramul Ali did misdeed upon the daughter of
informant in the house of Mubarak." Ext.7 is the relevant portion of statement of
Furkan Ali.

He has also recorded the statement of PW2 Majibur Rahman. The said
PW2 stated before him that “hearing commotion, I went to the house of Mubarka
and came to know from the gathering that Ikramul committed misdeed to the
daughter of Dulal’. Ext.8 is the relevant portion of statement of Mujibur Rahman.

During cross examination by defence the IO stated that the date of
occurrence is two months prior to lodging of FIR. In case diary he did not made any
note regarding the date, day and year of occurrence. He recorded the statement of
victim on 02.02.2018. On that day he forwarded the victim to the court for recording
her statement under section 164 of CrP.C. The victim was examined by doctor on
02.02.2018. On 01.02.2018 at 11:00 PM information regarding the offence of
received from Nazima Begum over phone. It is informed over phone (as per GD
entry) that people has confined a person in the house of Mubarak for committing a
bad act. The information is entered as GDE No. 19 dtd. 01.02.2018. He did not
submitted the extract copy of the GDE No. dtd. 19 01.02.2018 with the charge sheet.
He has not brought with him the original register maintained in the P.S. in connection
with the GD Entry. After the GD Entry No. he recorded the statement of “X”,and
other witnesses. He prepared the sketch map of place of occurrence. The FIR
received by the O/C of the PS. on 02.02.2018 at 11:35 AM. He recorded the
statements of all the witnesses on 01.02.2018 at night. It is not mentioned in the FIR
why the victim reframed from informing the informant regarding the incident which
occurred two months ago. He did not seize any cloths of victim, any musical
instruments from the house of Mubarak, cloths of Mubarak, lock and keys of house
of Mubarak. He found the doors of the house of Mubarak open. During investigation
he did not found any material against the accused Mezufa Begum and hence she was
not shown as accused. When he reached the spot he found villagers inside the
house. He found villagers have detained the accused Ikramul in the house of
Mubarak with Mubarak. No women constable accompanied him to the place of

occurrence. He has collected the medical report of victim on 23.02.2018. As per
Page |21

medical report the victim is aged more than 18 years. During investigation he has
collect documents from the victim regarding her age (school certificate). The mother
of victim gave him the school certificate of the victim during investigation. The
school certificate of the victim issued on 08.03.2018.

PW8 denied that PW1 Phulkan Ali did not state before him that two
months back Ikramul committed misdeed to the victim in the house of Mubarak, that
PW2 Mazibur Rahma did not state before him that hearing hulla he came and heard
from somebody else from the village that Ikramul did misdeed to the daughter of
Dulal.

PW8 said that PW3 did not state before him as follows:

“The incident took place about 5/6 months ago. On 26” January, 2018
when my victim sister went to school at School at the time of flag Hoisting she fell
down on giddiness. Then some school mates along with teacher took 'X’ to our
house. While I enquired why she fell so giddiness, she reported me that about 2/3
months ago Halan while in fishing a tank asked 'X’ to go to his house to bring his
dress. When my sister went to the house of Halan, entered in to the house, other
accused Ikramul pushed her down and he (Ikramul) also entered into the room and
wife of Halan, Mijufa locked the door from outside. Then Ikrarmul switched on the
computer make noisy by hearing song and committed rape upon her On the said
26" January at about 3 p.m. my sister went to her tuition as per my advice and on
returned from tuition on the way Ikramul met her and forcefully taken her to the
house of Halan. Police came and arrested the accused. At present 'X’ resides at
Silchar at the house of Abdul Hamid.”

The PW5 victim “X” did not state before him that when she attempted to
come out with the clothes, Ikramul pushed her and felled her on the ground, that
Ikramul forcibly undressed her, that she cried for help but nobody came forward, that
the house of Mubarak is situated at an isolated place and surrounded by paddy
fields, that after committing the rape the accused Ikramul threatened her with life
and also about defaming her, that on the occasion of Republic Day she felled down
and vomit, that in the house again she vomit and then she disclosed the fact of rape
to her elder sister, that she disclosed the matter to her sister and she asked her not
to disclose the same to her parents else they will beat her, and she also asked her
sister not to disclose the matter, that the accused persons are trying to kidnap her

and at that time the villagers gathered and took them to the house of Mubarak, that
Page |22

she gave phone number of her brother —in —law and asked him to inform her family
members, that after arrival of her mother and sister she disclosed before the
villagers that two months ago Ikramul raped her, that after arrival of police Mejufa
fled away.

The witness (PW3) did not gave any information to the police station
over phone on the day of occurrence. There is no note in the case diary or
mentioned by the witness that in connection with the incident they approached the
police for filing FIR but police refused to accept the same. He has not seized motor
cycle of accused or bicycle of victim in connection with the case. As per case diary
the place of occurrence is No. 3 Rongagora, house of Mubarak Ali. No other place of
occurrence shown in the case diary. The place of occurrence is only the house of
accused Mubarak Ali.

PW8 said further that during investigation I have not ascertained whether
“X” was married or unmarried. He has not visited the school to ascertain the
correctness of the particulars mentioned in the certificate regarding the victim. The
certificate was issued by Head Master, Rongagora High School but the pad is of
Rongagora Higher Secondary School. He did not visit the Rongagora Higher
Secondary School or Rongagora High School nor did he meet the head master of the
school during investigation. He did not record the statements of village gaonburha of
the village. He did not took steps to conduct DNA Test of the accused in connection

with pregnancy of the victim.

18. To prove the charge under Section 4 of POCSO Act, prosecution must
prove that —

Penetrative Sexual Assault. A person is said to commit “Penetrative sexual
Assault’ if -

"a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina,
mouth urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person;

b) h e inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the
body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the
child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

Cc) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to

cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body or
Page |23

the child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or
d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra

or the child to do so to such person or any other person’.

19, Moreover, section 29 of the POCSO Act speaks as follows;

“Where a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to
commit any offence under Sections 3,5,7 and Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court
Shall presume, that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit

the offence, as the case may be unless the contrary Is proved.”

20. The following facts in the present case is to be admitted;
a. The victim after examined by doctor found to be pregnant of 12 weeks 3

days.

b. The FIR lodged on 02.02.2018. On .02.02.2019 the victim was examined

and found to be pregnant of 12 weeks 3 days.

c. The FIR is lodged by the mother of the victim after coming to know that

the two male accused attempted to kidnap the victim.

d. Till lodging of the FIR the informant was not aware that her daughter was

pregnant, else she would have mentioned in the FIR.

21. The defence argued that there is no cause for delay in lodging the FIR.

It is accepted by the Hon’ble Highre Courts that there is no straight
jacket formula to consider the matter of delay in criminal trial. Each has its own area
of explanation. The Hon’ble Highre Courts also mentioned that in case of offence
against women, there may be explanation for delay in filing the information.

In the present case it is to be noticed that the mother of the victim
was not aware about the pregnancy of her daughter. The PW4 said in her cross
examination said that such things are not discussed in the house. Both the PW3 and
PW5 are the daughters of the PW4. Both the PW3 and PW5 explained that if their
mother comes to know about the incident, she (PW5) will get a beating. Hence it can

be observed that certain values are maintained in the house of the informant. When
Page |24

the matter between the PW5 and the accused persons made known to a larger
section, the police administration is also called. Sufficient explanation can be

deduced from the evidence on record.

22. Now, whether the PW5 became pregnant due to rape committed by
accused Ikramul @ Ekramul Ali ?

The PW7 said that at the time of examination the victim was
pregnant. Hence, the fact of PW5 becoming pregnant cannot be denied.

The PW5 said that in the house of the Mubarak the accused Ikramul
raped her. The PW5 identified the accused Ikramul. There is no reason on the part of
the PW5 to falsely implicate the accused Ikramul. The defence never denied the
presence of the accused Ikramul in the house of Mubarak. The PW5 mentioned that
in the year 2017. The version of the PW5 is confirmed by the medical report. To be
pregnant of 12 weeks on 2/2/2018, one is to be subjected to physical relation in the
year 2017. The PW5 cannot be disbelieved regarding the incident of rape and age.
The PW5 has narrated how during the Republic Day celebration she fell giddiness
and vomit and how her friend accompanied her to the house. The defence has not
attempted to deny the incident which took place in the school of the PW5 during
Republic Day celebration. The defence has been given ample scope by the PW5 by
her statement to cross check the allegation by the defence. The defence has not
denied the fact that both the accused Ikramul and Mubarak were apprehended by
the police in the house of Mubarak and then there were villagers. It is not the case
of the defence that the accused Mubarak and Ikramul not apprehended by police in
the house of Mubarak at night.

The victim has mentioned specifically where she studies. The victim exhibited
the statement u/s 164 CrP.C.( Exhibit- 2) There she mentioned that she is student of
class IX. Thus, giving ample scope to the defence to counter the same. Though the
defence argued that miscarriage is done without informing the investigating agency,
this line of argument is quite irrelevant. It is to be remembered that a girl of class —
IX became pregnant, accordingly to her without her consent. There may be many
reasons for the miscarriage, including physical capacity. Further, to decide the
complicity of accused, subsequent consequence of pregnancy is irrelevant.

Thus, it is proved that the victim (PW5) became pregnant due to rape

committed by the accused Ekramul Ali @ Ikramul Ali.
Page |25

23. It is to be decided whether the accused Mubarak and his wife Mejufa
abetted and facilitated the accused Ikramul to commit rape on the victim. The victim
is the material witness in this regard. It wholly depend on the statement given by the
victim. The victim said that after she returned from school she found the accused
Mubarak fishing with her father. Then the accused Mubarak asked her to bring his
clothes. It is to be noted that the father of the victim not examined by prosecution.
In her statement under section 164 of CR.P.C the victim said that
when she reached the house of Mubarak, both the accused Ikramul and Mejufa were
present. Then Mejufa left both the victim and Ikramul inside the room and locked the
room from outside and put on the tape recorded with high volumn. She shouted but
due to the sound of music, her shout could not be heard. It is seen that after the
incident the victim did not informed anybody about the incident. It is only on the
occasion of Republic Day celebration, when she fell down and brought to the home,
she informed her sister i.e the PW3. So the PW3 is the first person to hear what
happen to the PW5 in the house of Mubarak about 2 months back. Regarding the
information, the statement of the PW3 is also material. The PW3 said that the
accused Ikramul played the computer in high volumn. After one week the PW5 siad
before the Magistrate that the accused Mejufa put on the music. From the evidence
on record it is not noticed that the accused Mubarak and Mejufa actually could come
to know that the victim was raped. It seems that the victim and her mother had
presumed that the accused Mubarak and Mejufa are the brain behind the condition
of the victim. It is mentioned by the victim before the Magistrate that Mubarak is her
paternal uncle. It is also to be considered that why one will sent the nephew to be a
victim of rape. Nobody questioned the accused Mubarak and Mejufa till 01.02.2018
as to why they sent the PW5 to be a victim of rape. Before the Magistrate the victim
said that after the door is locked from outside and played the tape recorder, Ikramul
pushed and felled her. In the court the PW5 said during trial that there was nobody
on the house of Mubarak and when she was about to return with the clothes of
Mubarak, Ikramul came from behind and felled her. Then she noticed Mejufa locking
the door of the room. The PW3 said that Ikramul himself put on the computer and
the PW5 said that the music was played outside the room. Considering the
information given to the PW3 and the statement given before the Learned Magistrate

by the victim and the reading of situation by the minor girl for a length of time, it can
Page |26

be concluded that the victim and family members has made a presumption that
Mubarak and Mejufa are also having a hand in the molestation of the victim. The
complicity of accused Mubarak and Mejufa for charge u/s 17 of POCSO is not proved

beyond all reasonable doubt.

24. — The learned Advocate for the defense has argued that the prosecution has
failed to exhibit the G D Entry which was made after receiving the information about
the incident. It is argued that the FIR is an afterthought only to implicate the
accused.

The PW8 (IO) said that at night he received the information from the mother
of the victim. On the next day she lodged the FIR, where the facts are describe
broadly. The fact of rape on the victim only emerged after the lodging of the FIR.
Further, it is not the case of the defense that accused Mubarak and Ikramul were not
brought to the police station at night. The FIR based on which the case is registered
cannot be discarded.

In Mahendra Nath Das @ Gobinda Das -vs- State Of Assam (reported in
1998 (1) GLT 249) the Hon'ble Gauhati High Court observed as follows;

"( 12 ) The second point relates to admissibility of Ext. 4 as an FIR within the
meaning of section 154 Cr P. C. It is an admitted position that even before this F. I.
R. Ext. 4 came to be lodged, a G.D. Entry No. 739, Ext -11 had not only been
entered and recorded, but in fact investigation had also commenced as would be
revealed from a mere reading of the G.D. Entry, which is also reproduced below as a
ready reference : "now Sri Mahendra Nath Das alias Sri gobinda Das, son of Sri Tarun
Chandra Das, a resident of village Bohori, R S. Tarabari, district Barpeta appear at
the outpost with a severed human head and carrying a mit dao in his left hand and
reports that he has cut harakanta Das, a resident of Santipur with the mit dao he Is
carrying on M. G. Road near chambers Road and has taken the head along to the
outpost, leaving the trunk. The man is arrested U/s 41 of the Cr R C. and Iam
taking necessary steps. By a seizure list I have seized the dao the man was carrying
and I am getting ready for an inquest on the severed head which is identified by the
assailant. The O. C. Panbazar p. S. and Panbazar Div. Dy. S. PR. immediately informed
of this over phone. I personally take up the charge of investigation.”

( 13 ) Even if the submission made by the learned Amicus Curiae that Ext-4 is
hit by section 162 Cr P. C. , in face of Ext. 11, the G.D. Entry, and it is held to be
Page |27

inadmissible as F. I. R. with the meaning of Section 154 Cr PR C. the moot question
that arises for consideration is what is its ultimate effect on the prosecution Case as a
whole ? Does it throw overboard the prosecution case? The G.D. Entry was in point
of time the first report which came to be lodged and going through the same it does
disclose commission of cognizable offence. In fact it should have been treated as an
FIR within the meaning of Section 154 Cr PR. C. Learned Public prosecutor is right in
her submission that even if the Ext-4 is excluded from consideration an f. I. R. within
the meaning of Section 154 Cr PR CG it does not have any material effect on the

veracity of the prosecution case.”

25. The Leaned Advocate for the accused has argued that as per the
medical report the victim is more than 18 years and hence the case cannot be tried
under the POCSO Act.

The prosecution has exhibited the medical report as Ext. 4. In the
report the doctor has opined "her age appeared to be just 18 years.” It is to be
noted that the PW4 and the victim said that victim is student of class IX. PW4
specifically said that at the time of incident the age of her daughter was 14 years.
The defence during cross examination of I.0. (PW8) brought out that during
investigation he collected documents from the victim regarding her age. The PW8
during cross examination said that mother of victim gave him the school certificate
of the victim during investigation which was issued on 08.03.2018. It shows that
defence has the information regarding the existence of school certificate of the
victim. No step taken by the defence to deny that victim was not a student of class
IX during the time of occurrence. Moreover, as the doctor said that age of victim is
just above 18 years, as the incident took place prior to more than 2 months of
examination, it can be held that at the time of occurrence the age of victim was less
than 18 years. Considering the submission of the mother and the victim herself
regarding the age, their information is accepted.

The judgments cited by the Ld. Advocate for the defence i.e. reported
in 2015 (3) GLT 612, 2016 (2) GLT 727, 2015 (3) GLT 89 and 2015 (2) GLT 291 are
not applicable in connection with the present case. Because the present case is
under POCSO Act.

26. The victim stated before the Ld. Magistrate u/s 164 CrP.C. that on
Page |28

01.02.2018 the accused Ekramul followed her in order to kidnap her. The name of
Mubarak not mentioned by the victim before the Magistrate. The prosecution could
not examine the person who said to have rescued the victim from kidnapping. The
prosecution could not build the link of victim landing in the house of Mubarak on
01.02.2018. Hence, the ingredients u/s 366/511/34 of IPC against the accused

Ekramul and Mubarak are not proved beyond all reasonable doubt.

27. In view of the above discussions and reasons it is held that
prosecution has proved that accused Ekramul @ Ikramul Ali @ Kaltu has committed
the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

28. The charges u/s 363/511/34 of IPC against the accused Ekramul Ali @
Ikramul and Mubarak Ali not proved beyond reasonable doubt. Hence, they are
acquitted from the charges.

The charges u/s 17 of POCSO Act not proved against the accused
Mubarak Ali and Mejufa Knatoon @ Begum beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, they
are acquitted from the charges.

The bail bonds for the accused Mubarak Ali and Mejufa Khatoon @

Begum shall remain valid for six months from today.

29. The accused Ekramul @ Ikramul Ali is convicted u/s 4 of POCSO Act.
The accused cannot be considered for release u/s 360 of Cr.P.C. and Sec. 3 & 4 of
Probation of Offenders Act.

30. Heard the accused Ekramul Ali @ Ikramul Ali @ Kaltu on sentence.
The plea of accused is recorded. Considering the nature of offence committed by
accused, he is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 7 (seven)
years and pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand). In default of payment

of fine accused shall undergo further rigorous imprisonment for two months.

31. The period of detention undergone by the accused in jail hazot shall

be set off from the period of imprisonment.

32. As per provision of Section 357-A of the CrPC, victim's
Page |29

compensation is permissible in law. Earlier, DSLA, Sonitpur, Tezpur disbursed

interim compensation to the victim. The victim is entitled to compensation.

33. Learned Secretary, District Legal Service Authority, Sonitpur,
Tezpur hereby requested to give compensation to the victim as per existing
norms.

34. Free copy of judgment be furnished to the convict.

35. Copies of judgment be sent to the learned District Magistrate,

Sonitpur, Tezpur as per provision of Section 365 of CrPC and to the Learned

Secretary, District Legal Service Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 3" day of
October, 2019.

(R Baruah)

Special Judge(FTC)

Sonitpur,Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(R Baruah)
Special Judge(FTC),
Sonitpur, Tezpur

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |30

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Md Phurkan Ali,
2.PW2 — Md Majibur Rahman,
3.PW3 — Pinky Sultana,

4.PW4 — Msstt Nazima Begum,
5.PW5 — Miss “X” (victim),
6.PW6 — Dr Dwipen Mahanta,
7.PW7 — Dr Amarjit Kour &
8.PW8 — Md Taibur Rahman.

Witnesses examined by the Defence:
1.Nil.

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:
1. Ext. 1 : Ejahar,

2. Ext. 2 : Statement of victim recorded under Section 164 of CrPC.
3. Ext. 3 : Urine for HCG Report,

4. Ext. 4 : Medical report,

5. Ext. 5 : Sketch map,

6. Ext. 6 : Charge sheet,

7. Ext. 7 : Relevant portion of statement of Phurkan Ali &

8. Ext. 8 : Relevant portion of statement of Mujibur Rahman,

(R Baruah)
Special Judge(FTC),

Sonitpur,Tezpur.
