IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::::::: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.23/2016

State of Assam
Versus

Sri Sameswar @ Khumbra Basumatary .... Accused

Present: Smt.Mitali Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State : MrM.K.Ghose, Special P.P.

Ld. advocate for the accused: Mr S. Basumatary

Evidence recorded on : 17.02.17, 17.02.17, 10.3.17, 16.5.17,
06.02.18, 10.8.18, 07.9.18, 04.12.18

Argument heardon — : 14.03.2019

Judgment delivered on : 29.03.2019

JUDGEMENT

1. The prosecution story in brief is that on 04.02.2016 the
informant Sri Sarat Singh Basumatary lodged the first information report
stating that to the effect that on 03.02.2016 at about 4 P.M. the accused took
his minor daughter from his house for fishing in Laopani river where he
committed rape on his daughter for which she sustained injury and had to be
hospitalized. It is also mentioned that the accused was staying in their house
since one week prior from the date of the incident. Hence, the first information

report.
Special Case No.23/16

2

2. On receipt of the first information report in Kokrajhar P.S., a
case has been registered as Kokrajhar P.S. case No.72/16 under section 376 of
IPC, R.W. section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offices Act
and case was endorsed to SI Ritujyoti Nath for investigation. During
investigation the I.O. visited to the place of occurrence and recorded the
Statement of the witnesses, arrested the accused, medically examined her and
after ascertaining the minor age of the victim, the charge sheet has been filed
by the I.O. under section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused Sri Sameswar
@ Khumbra Basumatary. Relevant copies also furnished to the accused and
my learned Predecessor framed the charge under section 4 of POCSO Act
against the accused finding a prima-facie case. The charge was read over and
explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.
3. The prosecution side examined as many as 10 (ten) number of
witnesses including the informant, victim, M.O. and I.O.as follows:-

PW 1 Sri Sarat Singh Basumatary (Informant),

PW 2 Sri Nabin Mushahary,

PW 3 Sri Jagen Narzary,

PW4 Dr Manisha Boro Phukan,

PWS5 Sri Badi Boro,

PW6 Sri Bimal Basumatary,

PW 7 Smti Gebril Basumatary,

PW8 Sri Jibi Basumatary @ Narzary

PW9 Smti Renu Borah Handique,

PW10 SI Ritujyoti Nath and

CW1 Miss Binita Basumatary (Victim).
Special Case No.23/16

3
4. The accused person took the plea of total denial while recording

his statement under section 313 of Cr.P.C. and declined to adduce any

 

evidence.

5. Point for determination:
Whether the accused committed the offence of penetrative
sexual assault to the minor victim ?
Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

6. I have thoroughly perused the evidences on record and also

heard argument put forwarded by both the parties to arrive at a just decision
and assessing the evidence on record I have decided the case as follows with
my reason thereof:-

Z. As stated above the first information report of this case is lodged
by one Sri Sarat Singh Basumatary with the allegation that the accused on
03.02.2016 took his minor daughter for fishing in Laopani river where he
committed rape on his daughter for which she sustained injury and had to be
hospitalized. It is also mentioned that the accused was staying in their house
since one week prior from the date of the incident. While deposing before the
court also the informant as PW1 narrated the same story and deposed that at
about 11/12 P.M. accused brought back his daughter to his house and they
found their daughter sleeping on her bed and entire bed cover was wet by
watery substance and his daughter also sustained injury on her private part and
there was continuous bleeding from her private part. He brought his daughter
to the hospital for treatment at Bishmuri and Kokrajhar and thereafter she had
to admitted his daughter in GMCH, Guwahati where stitches were given on
her private part. She was admitted in the hospital for about one week for the
injury sustained by her. It also reveals from his evidence that the family
members were searching for their daughter as she did not return for several
hours and then they came to know that the accused brought back his daughter

to his house.
Special Case No.23/16

4
8. PW2 is the nieghbour of the informant and during the period of
incident he was discharging his duty as Goanbura of Laopani village. He also
rushed to the house of the informant getting the information of commission of
rape on the minor daughter of the informant and on enquiry he also found
profuse bleeding from her private part. Her condition was very serious and
accused was found sleeping in the house of the informant at the state of
intoxication. He further deposed that on enquiry the accused confessed his
guilt and thereafter they handed over the accused to Bishmuri Police Out Post.
9. PW3 another neighbour also came to the house of the informant
in the morning coming to know about the incident and he also saw serious
condition of the minor victim. As per this witness also the accused confessed
that he committed rape on the minor victim and he also informed that he is
feeling guilty after committing the offence.
10. PWS5 also came to know about the incident from the mother of
the victim and she also saw injury and bleeding from the private part of the
minor victim.
11. PW6 nephew of the informant also came to their house as called
by the informant and he also saw the injury and bleeding of the minor victim.
12. As per PW7 the accused confessed before the villagers about the
commission of rape on the minor daughter of the informant. They accordingly
informed the police and handed over the accused to the police.
13. PW8 is the mother of the minor victim and she deposed that the
accused came to their residence and stayed in their house and on the day of the
incident he took their daughter for fishing in Laopani river, where the accused
committed rape on her daughter taking her in lonely place in the evening time.
Later on, her daughter informed about the incident and then they found

profuse bleeding on her private part. Accused also confessed his guilt before
Special Case No.23/16

5
her and later on before the villagers. They informed the villagers on the night
of the occurrence where the accused confessed his guilt. Her daughter was
taken to the hospital for treatment for bleeding from her private part and injury
sustained by her due to commission of rape by the accused.
14. So from the testimonies of PWs1, 2, 3, 5, 7 and 8 it is seen that
all the witnesses corroborating each other have deposed that the accused
committed rape on the minor daughter of the informant by taking her for
fishing in lonely place. From their evidence it also reveals that the victim
sustained severe injury on her vagina (private part) and all of them have seen
profuse bleeding from her private part and they also found the victim in
serious condition. More so, all the witnesses have stated that the accused also
confessed his guilt before the villagers and on the next day he was handed
over to the police. At the same time all the witnesses have stated that the
victim had to be hospitalized and she was initially took to Bishmuri and
Kokrajhar and thereafter she took her treatment at GMCH. PWs5 and 6 also
accompanied PWs1 and 8 to the doctor. Another witness PW6 who is the
nephew of the informant also came to the house of the informant and
thereafter he also accompanied the informant to the doctor for treatment of the
minor victim. So as per these witnesses the accused not only committed rape
on the minor victim and he also confessed his guilt before the villagers and
they also stressed on the point that victim sustained severe injury on her
private part.
15. From the cross evidences of all the witnesses, it is seen that the
accused confessed before the villagers about the commission of offence and
these witnesses denied when suggested that the accused confessed before the
villagers only out of fear and compulsion.
16. As per medical evidence (PW4) she found multiple vaginal

mucus bleeding on examination of vulva and vagina. The report also speak
Special Case No.23/16

6

that there was grievous mark of violence on her private part and hymen was
also torned. Doctor also opined that child has subjected to sexual/physical
abuse. On cross-examination also she stated that bleeding came out due to
sexual penetration. She further stated that it may be by penetration by hands
and/or by sexual organ. So the medical evidence also corroborates the ocular
evidence of all the witnesses discussed above and as per medical report also
there was sexual assault and penetration into the vagina of the minor victim
for which hymen was raptured and at the time of examination also there found
multiple mucus bleeding on the private part of the minor victim.

17. The victim was examined as court witness as her name was not
listed in the list of witnesses. After putting some preliminary questions her
capacity of understanding was judged and thereafter the statement of the
minor was recorded. The minor victim very specifically stated in her statement
that the accused took her near the bank of river and has done misdeed with
her. She clearly stated that he asked her to open her panty and after opening
his Gamosa he thrown her on the ground and forcibly penetrated his penis into
her vagina. She cried as it was paining and blood was coming out. Thereafter
the accused himself brought her to her own house and kept her in her bed and
stayed in the night in their house. On the next day she was brought before the
doctor for treatment. In her cross evidence she stated that the accused had
consumed alcohol at the time of incident and he also asked her not to disclose
anything about the incident to others.

18. PW10, I.O. of this case and from his evidence it is evident that
he rushed to the place of occurrence getting telephonic message but, in the
mean time the victim was admitted in RNB Civil Hospital, Kokrajhar in a
critical condition and the villagers confined the accused. He made GDE as

soon as he got the information and immediately rushed to place of occurrence
Special Case No.23/16

7

occurrence where the accused was tying on a tree and the villagers gharoed
him and hence, he rescued the accused and took him in his custody. Thereafter
he made a requisition to know medical status of the victim and also to
ascertain sign of rape. Thereafter the father of the victim lodged the first
information report which was accordingly a case is registered in Kokrajhar
P.S. and the case was endorsed with him. As per the I.O. also the accused
confessed his guilt while recording his statement. He also seized undergarment
of both the accused and victim and sent the same for examination to FSL. The
victim was referred to GMCH for further treatment after which the statement
of the minor victim was recorded. Her statement was recorded on 20.5.2016
after her discharge from GMCH. On completion of investigation, collecting
FSL report, medical report etc. he filed the charge sheet against the accused.
So it is seen that the I.O. not only examined the victim but, he also collected
undergarment of both the accused and victim. PW2 put his signature as seizure
witness when the I.O. seized undergarment of both the victim and accused.

19. Coming to the evidence of Scientific Officer (PW9) who
examined undergarment of both the accused and victim it is seen that half pant
of the accused gave positive test for human spermatozoa and pant of the
victim gave positive test of human blood and negative test for spermatozoa.
Thus, it is seen that blood stain which was found in the pant of the victim gave
for positive test and at the same time the half pant of the accused also gave
positive test of human spermatozoa which otherwise corroborates the medical
evidence as well as ocular evidence of prosecution witnesses. It is not possible
for scientific officer to know the accused or to say as to whether human
spermatozoa which was found at the time of examination belonged to accused
or not and at the same time it is also not possible for the scientific officer to
say as to whether positive test of human blood is blood stain or blood came

out from the vagina of the minor victim.
Special Case No.23/16

8
20. During the course of argument the learned advocate appeared for
the accused person raised the following points:-

(i) There is no eye witness of the incident ;

(ii) The accused confessed his guilt out of fear and compulsion ;

(iii) The accused brought the victim girl to her own house which
otherwise establishes that he has not committed any offence with the minor
girl ;

(iv) The Scientific Officer (PW9) do not know any whether
spermatozoa found on the pant and human blood found in any long pant
belong to the accused and victim respectively ;

21. It is an admitted position that there was no eye witnesses and all
the witnesses have heard about the incident from the minor victim. The
circumstance of the case is that the accused took the minor victim in the
evening time in the bank of river Laopani which was lonely place and hence
presence of other people at the time of incident cannot be expected. So mainly
because of non availability of any eye witnesses, testimonies of all the
witnesses cannot be disbelieved. All the witnesses have heard about the
incident from the victim and also saw her in serious injured condition. At the
same time the minor victim who is examined as court witness has specifically
stated that the accused forcibly penetrated his penis into her vagina by
throwing her on the ground and opening her cloth etc. She also stated that she
felt pain on her vagina and blood came out when the accused forcibly entered
his penis into her vagina. Not only all the witnesses supported the prosecution
version but, medical evidence also supported the ocular evidence and it is very
clear that doctor found grievous mark of violence on her private part and also
found profuse bleeding from her vagina. Hymen of the minor victim is also

ruptured as per medical opinion.
Special Case No.23/16

9
Zen. In this context the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court
reported in 2017 (4) GLT 395 Shiv Charan Talukdar Vs State of Assam
can be cited where in para 23 of the said judgment the Hon'ble High Court has
referred the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in 2017 (2)

SCC 51 and paragraph 31 reads as follows:-
“31. After thorough analysis of all relevant and attendant factors,

we are of the opinion that none of the grounds, on which the High Court has
cleared the respondents, has any merit. By now it is well settled that the
testimony of a victim in cases of sexual offences is vital and unless there are
compelling reasons, which necessitate looking for corroboration of a
statement, the courts should find no difficulty to act on the testimony of the
victim of a sexual assault alone to convict the accused. No doubt, her
testimony has to inspire confidence. Seeking corroboration to a statement
before relying upon the same as a rule, in such cases, would literally amount
to adding insult to injury. The deposition of the prosecutrix has, thus, to be
taken as a whole. Needless to reiterate that the victim of rape is not an
accomplice and her evidence can be acted upon without corroboration. She
stands at a higher pedestal than an injured witness does. If the court finds it
difficult to accept her version, it may seek corroboration from evidence which
lends assurance to her version. To insist on corroboration, except in the rarest
of rare cases, is to equate one who is a victim of the lust of another with an
accomplice to a crime and thereby insult womanhood. It would be adding
insult to injury to tell a woman n that her claim of rape will not be believed
unless it is corroborated the material particulars, as in the case of an
accomplice to a crime. Why should the evidence of the girl or the woman who
complains of rape or sexual molestation be viewed with the aid of spectacles

fitted with lenses tinged with doubt, disbelief of suspicion ? The plea about
Special Case No.23/16

10

lack of corroboration has no substance (See Bhupinder Sharma V State of
H.P.). Notwithstanding this legal position, in the instances case, we even find
enough corroborative material as well, which is discussed herein above.”

23. In the instant case also the statement of the victim about the
commission of rape by the accused found trustworthy, reliable and medical
evidence showing torn hymen with injury on her private part showing
grievous mark of violence also fully supported the prosecution version. More
so, the evidence of PW9, the Scientific Officer and his report also speak that
the garment of the accused and victim gave positive test for human
spermatozoa and human blood respectively.

24. Coming to the confession by the accused it is seen that all the
prosecution witnesses corroborating to each other have stated that when they
enquired about the matter the accused confessed his guilt before the villagers.
The learned advocate submitted in this regard that he confessed before the
villagers only out of fear and compulsion and hence such extra-judicial
confession cannot be taken into consideration or cannot be used against the
accused. But, from the evidence of all the witnesses it is seen that they denied
to the suggestion put by the defence that the accused confessed out of fear and
compulsion. All the prosecution witnesses corroborating to each other have
deposed that on enquiry the accused confessed his guilt before the villagers.
There is no whisper in the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses that he
made the extra-judicial confession only out of fear and compulsion. The
circumstance of the case is that when the prosecution witnesses and other
villagers came to the house of the informant getting the information about the
commission of rape on their minor daughter. They enquired the matter with
the accused when he confessed that he committed rape on the minor victim.

Thus, the evidence of prosecution witnesses cannot be disbelieved in regard to
Special Case No.23/16

11

the extra-judicial confession made by the accused unless there is some rebuttal
evidence from the defence side. It reveals from the cross evidence of
prosecution witnesses that the defence could not rebut their evidence in
respect of confession made by the accused before them. More so, there is no
any evidence that these witnesses had any enmity to bring such a grave
allegation against the accused. Accused is also not resident of that village to
have any previous grudge or enmity with the parents of the minor victim or
with other villagers.
2A: “Tt is true that the court requires the witness to give the actual
words used by the accused as nearly as possible but it is not an invariable rule
that court should not accept the evidence, if not the actual words by the
substances were given. It is for the court having regard to the credibility of the
witness before whom the confession is made and it is satisfied that confession
was voluntarily, conviction can be founded on such evidence”.

This has been held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in a decision
reported in AIR 1991 SC 37 Baldev Raj V State of Haryana.
26. In various decisions also the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held
that the conviction can be passed fully on extra-judicial confession without
corroboration if it inspires confidence (AIR 1975SC 1320).
27. From the discussion made above, it is seen that the prosecution
witnesses before whom the accused is alleged to have been confessed is found
trustworthy and the entire circumstances also supported version of the
prosecution witnesses. Our Hon'ble High Court in a case reported in 2001 (3)
GLR 533 Baharul Bibi Vs State of Assam has held that- “Circumstances can
be acted upon if the evidence of the person before whom the confession was

made inspires confidence”.
Special Case No.23/16

12
28. So from the detail discussion made above it is seen that the
prosecution could establish that the accused took the minor victim to the bank
of river Laopani in the forest area where he penetrated his penis into her
vagina to that extend that her hymen was ruptured and there was profuse
bleeding from her vagina. Thus, the medical evidence also fully supports that
there was penetration in the private part of the minor victim.

Section 3 of the POCSO Act read as follows:-

A person is said to commit “penetrative sexual assault” if-

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth,
urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other
person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object of a part of the body, not
being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the
child to do so with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to
cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the child
or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the
child or makes the child to do so to such person of any other person.

As per the provision of this Act even manipulation of any part of
the body of a child so as to cause penetration would amount to penetrative
sexual assault which is available under section 4 of POCSO Act [2017 SCC
Gau 576 - Sri Kamakhya Roy Vs State of Assam].

29. Accordingly, it is held that the prosecution is able to establish the
case against the accused Sameswar @ Kumbra Basumatary under section 4 of
POCSO Act and accordingly the accused is convicted under the said section of

law.
Special Case No.23/16

13
30. I have considered section 360 Cr.P.C. to release the accused on
probation. But, the heinous crime of committing rape on a minor girl of 6/7
years old shakes our judicial conscience. The offence was inhuman. Sexual
violence apart from being dehumanizing act is an unlawful intrusion of right
of privacy and sanctity of a female and as such the accused does not deserve
such leniency.
31. Heard the accused on the point of sentence under section 235 (2)
Cr.P.C. which is written in separate sheet and tagged the same with case
record. He submitted that he is very poor person and accordingly he prays for
his release without any sort of punishment.
ae. The object of the sentence should be to protect the society and
deter the criminal. Gravity of the offence, mitigating factors, manner in which
the offence was planned and committed, prescribed punishment and the social
abhorrence of the offences etc. are indicators for sentencing. Reference in this
regard made to the Judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in 2016
(16) SCC 441 (Jasbir Singh Vs Tara Singh).
33. One of the prime objective of criminal law is imposition of
adequate, just and proper punishment which commensurates with the gravity,
nature of crime and manner in which the offence is committed. One should
keep in mind social interest and consideration of the society while considering
the determinative factors of sentence with the gravity of the crime.
34. In Rajendra Prasad Vs State of Uttar Pradesh [(1979)3 SCC
646] it is held that- “Judges are entitled to hold their own views, but it is the
bounden duty of the Court to impose proper punishment, depending upon the degree
of criminality and the desirability to impose such punishment as a measure of social

necessity, as a means of deterring other potential offenders”.
Special Case No.23/16

14
35. So considering all aspects of the case, circumstances and
submission of the convicted accused, I find that it is not a fit case for
sentencing the accused with the maximum punishment of imprisonment for
life and hence Rigorous Imprisonment for ten years with fine will meet ends
of justice.

O R DE R

36. In the result, the accused Sri Sameswar @ Khumbra Basumatary
is hereby convicted under section 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act and hereby sentence with Rigorous Imprisonment for 10 (ten)
years along with a fine of Rs.2,000/-. In default of payment of fine will
undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for two months. The period of custody of
the accused shall be set off from the period of sentence if any.

37. Free copy of the judgment be furnished to the convicted
Sameswar @ Khumbra Basumatary under section 363 of Cr.P.C. and also a
copy of the Judgment be furnished to the learned District Magistrate,
Kokrajhar complying the provision of under section 365 of Cr.P.C.

38. The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the Court on this 29th March/2019 at Kokrajhar Court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
Special Case No.23/16

15
Appendix

The prosecution witnesses are:

1) PW 1 Sri Sarat Singh Basumatary (Informant),
2) PW 2 Sri Nabin Mushahary,

3) PW 3 Sri Jagen Narzary,

4) PW4 Dr Manisha Boro Phukan,

5) PW5 Sri Badi Boro,

6) PW6 Sri Bimal Basumatary,

7) PW 7 Smti Gebril Basumatary,

8) PW8 Sri Jibi Basumatary @ Narzary

9) PW9 Smti Renu Borah Handique and

10) PW10 SI Ritujyoti Nath.

The Court Witness is :
CW1 Miss Binita Basumatary (Victim)

The Defence witness is: Nil.

The exhibited documents are:

1. Ext-1 _... Seizure list,

2. Ext.2  ... Medical report of victim,

3. Ext.3 _... Report of Scientific Officer,

4. Ext.4 _... Extract copy of GDE,

5. Ext.5 —... Charge sheet,

6. Ext.6  .... Seizure list,

7.Ext.7 — .... Sketch map,

8. Material Ext.1 .. Black colour half pant of accused and

9. Material Ext.2 .. Grey colour of long pant of victim with blood stain.

The Defence witness and exhibit : Nil

Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
