Spl (P) Case No:39/17

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE errtrrtrti:::: NALBARI

 

Present: Smti S. Bhuyan
Special Judge
Nalbari.

Spl (P) CASE NO: 39/17
u/s- 354 IPC and Section 8 of POCSO Act.

STATE
-V/sS-
Basudev Deka
S/O-Late Prabhat Deka
R/o, Vill-Saplekuchi

PS & Dist-Nalbari  seccsceseeeeees Accused person
Appearance :-
For the prosecution : Mr. K. Sarma, Special PP
For the defence : Mr. G. Nath, Advocate.

Date of institution of the case : 18/09/17

Date of framing charge : 29/11/17
Date of evidence : 13/02/18, 04/05/18, 19/06/18,
22/11/18
Statement of accused recorded : 17/06/19
Date of Argument : 29/07/19, 13/08/19
Judgment Delivered : 27/08/19
Sentence Hearing : 29/08/19
Sentence Pronounced : 29/08/19
JUDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution as revealed from the ejahar

lodged by Sewali Medhi W/o-Sanjay Medhi of village Saplekuchi,
PS. & District- Nalbari, is that on 17/09/17 at about 3 pm her
minor daughter Miss 'X' (name changed as the case is register
under POCSO Act) along with her minor son Barnil Medhi went to

1 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

the house of Dayaram on the occasion of Biswakarma puja to have
puja khana. From the puja feast they were taken to the house of
accused by the accused. Accused keeping minor son of informant
in the veranda took her victim daughter in the backside of
accused’s house and pressed and touched her breast. After the
incident her daughter came home by crying and disclosed her the
incident and when asked about the incident to accused then wife
of the accused misbehaved her. Hence, the case.

2. O/C Nalbari PS on receipt of the ejahar registered Nalbari PS
case vide Nalbari PS case No. 694/17 u/s-354 IPC read with
section-8 of the POCSO Act and lynched investigation. During
investigation, lO of the case recorded statement of informant at
the police station. IO visited the place of occurrence, drawn sketch
map of the place of occurrence, recorded statement of the
witnesses and victim. On the next day, IO of the case produced
victim girl at SMK civil Hospital, Nalbari for medical examination
and then produced her before the court to record her statement
u/s-164 Cr.P.C. 1|O of the case arrested accused, produced him
before the court, collected medical report and after completion of
investigation submitted charge sheet against the accused
Basudev Deka u/s-354 IPC and section-8 of the POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the charge sheet my then learned predecessor
took cognizance and issued process to the accused and after
furnishing copies to the accused, framed charge u/s-354 IPC read
with section-8 of the POCSO Act against the accused Basudev
Deka and when charges are read over and explained to the
accused he pleaded not guilty and stood for trial.

4. In order to prove the charge against the accused person,
prosecution altogether adduces evidence of 6 no’s of witnesses
including informant, victims and I/O of the case and exhibited 4
no’s of documents. PW-1, Sewali Medhi (informant), PW-2, Miss ‘X’
(victim), PW-3, Basanta Rajbongshi, PW-4, Arjun Barman, PW-5
Latika Harijon and PW-6, Manalisha M Bhakta (I/O). Ext-1, Ejahar,

2 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

Ext-2, statement of victim recorded u/s-164 Cr.P.C, Ext-3 Sketch
Map of the place of occurrence, Ext-4, charge sheet. After closures
of the evidence of the prosecution, statement of the accused
Basudev Deka recorded u/s-313 Cr.P.C and accused plea is total
denial however he declined to adduce evidence in support of his
plea of denial.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATIONS ARE:-

(i) Whether victim girl Miss ‘X’ was under the age of 18 years and
she was minor on the date of incident?

(ii) Whether accused Basudev Deka assaulted or used criminal
force upon Miss ‘X’ and outrage her modesty ?

(ii) Whether accused committed sexual assault upon Miss 'X', as
defined under section 8 of the POCSO Act ?

Argument

5. | have heard argument of learned counsel for both sides.
Learned Special Public Prosecutor submitted that victim is a minor
girl and prosecution beyond all reasonable doubt fairly able to
establish the charge of section-354 IPC read with section-8 of the
POCSO Act against the accused.

6. Learned defence counsel made submission that except the
victim and her relatives other witnesses not supported the case of
the prosecution and IO of the case prove the contradiction and
prosecution failed to establish the case beyond all reasonable
doubt.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:

 

a: Ext-1 is the ejahar. In Ext-1 ejahar, PW-1 Sewali Medhi
stated that on 17/09/17 on the day of ‘Biswakarma puja’ at about
3 pm her victim daughter Miss ‘X’ (name changed) along with her
5 year old son went to the house of Dayaram for Biswakarma puja
and after taking puja prasad (khichiri) accused Basu Deka took her
children to accused house and keeping her son outside the house

he took her daughter Miss ‘X’ on the backside of accused house
3 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

and pressed the breast of her daughter. Her daughter after coming
to home narrate the incident to her. Thereafter she asked the
accused about the incident but accused wife misbehaved her and
rebuked her.

8. PW-1 informant, PW-2 victim girl, PW-3 Basanta Rajbongshi,
PW-4 Arjun Barman, PW-5 Latika Harijon, stated incident was took
place on the day of Biswakarma puja on 17/09/17 and on the point
of taking place of incident on the day of Biswakarma puja there is
no two views coming from the statement of PWs. Thus taking
place of incident with the victim girl is confirmed by all the Pws.
Statement of the PWs more specifically from the statement of Pw-
1 and statement of the accused recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C revealed
that victim is a minor girl and she is aged about years 11 years old
at the time of incident.

9. Now, let me discuss the evidence on record to arrive at the
just decision of the case whether accused committed the incident
as alleged.

10. PW-1, is the informant and mother of the victim girl. Her
evidence and evidence of PW-2 victim girl, revealed on the date of
incident PW-2 with her minor brother went to the house of
Dayaram to attend ‘Biswakarma puja’ to take khichiri. The
statement of PW-4, pointed that accused from the house of
Dayaram came to his house and it is also coming from the
statement of all the PWs that accused was present in the puja
house and daughter of PW-1 visit puja house to have khichiri.

11. PW-1 statement is that her daughter PW-2, after returning
from the ‘Biswakarma puja’ from the house of Dayaram told her
that accused Basu Deka called her daughter Miss ‘X’ to his house
telling her that he will give Indian gooseberry to her and at that
time her 5 year old son was also present with Miss ‘X’. The
statement of PW-1, informant, PW-2, victim and PW-4 pointed that
victim was present first in the house of Dayaram where from she

was seen in the compound of accused and at that time accused
4 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

Basudev was present at his house. This piece of evidence is not
cross examined by the defence could not over turn the fact that
victim girl went to puja, where from she was seen in the
compound of accused and accused was present at that time. This
very fact is disclosed by PW-4 and this is unrebutted fact. Presence
of accused and victim at the same time in the house of accused is
established beyond all reasonable doubt.

12. The evidence of PW-1 further pointed that her daughter also
told her that accused asked her son to stand on the veranda and
he took her daughter in the back side and from veranda he took
Miss ‘X’ inside the room and then unbutton her frock and pressed
her breast and she sustained pain and her daughter told accused
‘uncle (khura tumi ki korisa) what are you doing’, to that accused
replied that he is making love with her and when her daughter tell
that she will shout, he replied he will bring a pillow and at that
time someone’ called accused and accused gave few Indian
gooseberry to her daughter and sent her daughter. Coming to
know the incident she disclosed the incident to her in laws and her
khuri sahu Golapi Medhi.

13. PW-2 victim girl evidence pointed that on the date of
incident she went to the house of Dayaram where ‘Biswakarma
puja’ was performed. Her evidence pointed after taking khichiri
she went to wash her hands and accused took her to the courtyard
of his house telling her that he will give her Indian gooseberry and
she with her brother went to the courtyard of accused with
accused. Thereafter accused asked her brother to stand on the
veranda and took her inside the room telling that he will give
gooseberry. Thereafter accused made her sit on the bed, lift her
frock, pressed her breast and when she asked what you are doing
khura (khura tumi ki korisa), accused tell her that he is making
love with her and when she told him she will shout accused
brought a pillow to gagged her mouth and at that time someone

5 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

called accused and accused asked her to leave the room giving
her few gooseberry and she narrated the incident to her mother.

14. In cross she denied all the suggestion put by the defence
that accused did not take her to his house, did not press her
breast, did not took her inside the room asking her brother to
stand outside, accused made her sit in the bed, took her to his
house in the name of giving gooseberry, did not press her breast,
did not insert his hand through her frock, did not brought a pillow
to gagged her mouth when she told accused that she will shout. In
cross she stated that when accused took her there was no other
person present in the house of accused. She also denied defence
suggestion that there was land dispute between their families and
no visiting terms with the house of accused.

15. On scrutiny of the statement of PW-1 and PW-2, | find that
there is corroboration in the statement of PW-1 and PW-2 by each
other. The fact that accused was present in the house of Dayaram
is established from the statement of not only PW-1 and PW-2 but
also from the statement of PW-3, PW-4 and statement of accused
u/s-313 CrPC. It is not the plea of the prosecution that incident was
took place in the house of Dayaram.

16. The statement of PW-3, pointed on that date of incident he
heard taking place of quarrel between father of victim with
accused on the fact of allegation that accused committed rape on
Miss ‘X’, the victim girl.

17. PW-4 evidence pointed puja feast continue till 3.20 PM and
PW-4, Arjun Barman deposed accused help in preparing khiciri for
the puja. He deposed that at about 2.20 pm, accused son and PW-
2, was plucking gooseberry in the campus of accused and accused
went to his house leaving aside cooking and he slapped Miss ‘X’.
On the evening he heard that accused was called by victim’s
father but he does not know the reason and on next day he came

6 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

to know that victim father lodged a case against accused alleging
that accused committing indecent act with his daughter. At the
time of cross examination, there is no cross from the side of
defence with regard to the presence of victim girl in the compound
of accused. Accused leaving puja house to his house at that time,
therefore this part of the evidence of the PW-4 is remain intact and
is unassailable piece of evidence and same establish the fact that
accused went to his house from puja house and at that time he

was seen with victim girl at his house.

18. PW-2 the victim girl in her statement before the police,
before the magistrate u/s-164 CrPC and before the court stated
that on the date of incident she went to the house of Dayaram on
the occasion of biswakarma puja and after taking khiciri (khana)
when she went to wash her hands accused called her to his house
in the name of giving Indian gooseberry (amlakhi) and touched her
breast pressed her breast and except this statement there is
nothing else elicited from her mouth during rigorous cross
examination by the defence and failed to demolish her stand in
her in chief on the fact that accused molested her by touching and
pressing her breast.

19. During her examination she passed the test of giving
rational answer and she has proper understanding and given the
answer after knowing the same. Her statement pointed that at the
time when she was taken to the house of accused no other person
were present in the house of accused. She was also seen by PW-4,
in the courtyard of accused near the gooseberry tree. Except the
point that she is a child, no other fact coming outs from the cross
examination to disbelief her piece of statement.

20. The statement of PW-2 further pointed that she is matured
enough to understand the question put to her and accordingly she
given the rational answer. Defence failed to distract her during

rigorous cross examination and | find her statement believable

7 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

beyond all reasonable doubt and only fact of age cannot be bar to
disbelief and reject her testimonies and | find her piece of
testimonies safe to accept and accordingly | have accepted the
same.

21.  PW-1 the informant stated that after hearing incident from
her daughter she went to the house of accused to make an
enquiry about the incident of alleged sexual assault upon her
daughter by accused but she did not find the accused as he did
not come out and accused wife told her that he was sleeping when
she narrated incident to accused wife. So she returned home and
when her husband return home she narrated the incident to her
husband. Her husband went to accused house to disclose the
incident to the mother of the accused but mother of accused told
her husband that accused is not present at home and thereafter
her husband noticed accused drinking and accused run away after
noticing her husband.

22. Statement of PW-5 pointed that in the evening accused
came to his pan shop to take pan and at that time accused was
called by Sanjay Medhi, father of the victim. Thus again establish
the contention of PW-1 that her husband was searching for
accused to hear him personally on the alleged incident.

23. The entire scrutiny of the evidence on record along with the
statement of IO of the case it is seen that incident was took place
in the house of accused. On the date of incident ‘Biswakarma puja’
was performed in the house of Dayaram where accused was
present, helped in cooking in preparation of the puja feast. The
victim with her brother went to the puja to have puja feast. She
was noticed in the courtyard of accused by PW-4, though PW-4
stated that victim with accused son plucking gooseberry from the
gooseberry plant but it remain unchallenged that accused went to
his house at that time from the puja house and victim was also
present at accused compound at the same time and this part is
unassailable and unrebutable piece of testimonies. Prosecution

plea is that accused came to his house from the puja house, where
8 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

he sexually assaulted the victim girl and the fact of accused and
victim present together at same time at accused house has been
established by prosecution beyond all reasonable doubt. It is also
not believable that parents put their 11 year old girl who yet not
attain puberty for betting with her chastity for the boundary
dispute.

24. During cross examination of the victim nothing elicited
about the presence of any boundary dispute. There is not a single
question put to PW-1 with regard to boundary or land dispute

between accused family and informant family.

25. PW-3 and PW-5 are not cross examined by defence.
Statement of PW-3 does not pointed any fact of land dispute.
Therefore, the statement of PW-4 which he made in his cross with
regard to the presence of land dispute being not corroborated is
not acceptable and | did not consider her this part of cross
examination and | find the statement of victim of the sexual
assault of this case believable, acceptable beyond all reasonable
doubt and | have accepted the same which carries weight and is
convincing piece of evidence.

26. Modesty is the property of woman and she carries the same
with her birth. In State of Punjab vs Major Singh AIR 1967 SC 63
Hon'ble Apex Court in a case of seven month baby girl possess
modesty or not held “The offence punishable under section 354
IPC is an assault on or use of criminal force to a woman with the
intention of outraging her modesty or with the knowledge of the
likelihood of doing so. The Code does not define "modesty". What
then is a woman's modesty? | think that the essence of a woman's
modesty is her sex. The modesty of an adult female is writ large
on her body. Young or old, intelligent or imbecile, awake or
sleeping, the woman possesses a modesty capable of being
outraged. Whoever uses criminal force to her with intent to
outrage her modesty commits an offence punishable under
section 354 IPC. The culpable intention of the accused is the crux

9 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

of the matter. The reaction of the woman is very relevant, but its
absence is not always decisive, as, for example, when the accused
with a corrupt mind stealthily touches the flesh of a sleeping
woman. She may be an idiot, she may be under the spell of
anesthesia, she may be sleeping, she may be unable to appreciate
the significance of the act; nevertheless, the offender is
punishable under the section. A female of tender age stands on a
somewhat different footing. Her body is immature, and her sexual
powers are dormant. In this case, the victim is a baby of 10 years
old. She has not yet developed a sense of shame and has no
awareness of sex. Nevertheless, from her very birth she possesses
the modesty which is the attribute of her sex.”

27. In State of Himachal Pradesh vs Sanjay Kumar @ Sunny
(2017) 2 SCC 51, The Hon’ble Supreme Court in held that “By now
it is well settled that the testimony of a victim in cases of sexual
offences is vital and unless there are compelling reasons which ne-
cessitate looking for corroboration of a statement, the courts
should find no difficulty to act on the testimony of the victim of a
sexual assault alone to convict the accused. No doubt, her testi-
mony has to inspire confidence. Seeking corroboration to a state-
ment before relying upon the same as a rule, in such cases, would
literally amount to adding insult to injury. The deposition of the
prosecutrix- has, thus, to be taken as a whole. Needless to reiter-
ate that the victim of rape is not an accomplice and her evidence
can be acted upon without corroboration. She stands at a higher
pedestal than an injured witness does. If the court finds it is diffi-
cult to accept her version, it may seek corroboration from some
evidence which lends assurance to her version. To insist on corrob-
oration, except in the rarest of rare cases, is to equate one who is
a victim of the lust of another with an accomplice to a crime and
thereby insult womanhood. It would be adding insult to injury to
tell as woman that her claim of rape will not be believed unless it
is corroborated in material particulars, as in the case of an accom-

plice to a crime. Why should the evidence of the girl or the woman

10 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

who complains of rape or sexual molestation be viewed with the
aid of spectacles fitted with lenses tinged with doubt, disbelief or
suspicion? The plea about lack of corroboration has no substance”.

28. The Hon’ble Apex Court in State of HP Vs. Asha Ram (2005)
13 SCC 766 held that “ It is now well settled principle of law that
conviction can be founded on the testimony of the prosecutrix
alone unless there are compelling reasons for seeking corrobora-
tion. The evidence of a prosecutrix is more reliable than that of an
injured witness. The testimony of the victim of sexual assault is vi-
tal unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate looking
for corroboration of her statement, the courts should find no diffi-
culty in acting on the testimony of a victim of sexual assault alone
to convict an accused where her testimony inspires confidence
and is found to be reliable. It is also well settled principle of law
that corroboration as a condition for judicial reliance on the testi-
mony of the prosecutrix is not a requirement of law but a guidance
of prudence under given circumstances. Minor contradictions or in-
Significant discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix
should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable pros-

ecution case.”

29. The lifting of the frock of the victim girl, touching her body,
her private parts, pressing the breast is nothing else but sexual
assault on the poor girl who is defenseless person before a
matured old man. Woman born with her chastity. A new born is
having her chastity and a new born also feel the touch of others
and none have any right to touch a girl in inappropriate manner
and touching in inappropriate manner even to a new born child
amounts to sexual assault be it boy or girl. One cannot dishonor
the chastity of others by touching inappropriately removing the
dress, lifting, pulling down unbuttoning dress of a little one and
doing of all or any of the activity amounted to sexual assault,
outraging the modesty of the child and woman.

11 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

30. Here the accused lift the frock of the victim girl pressed her
breast who yet not developed any secondary sexual character and
then when the poor victim girl telling the accused what you are
doing khura. The accused replied “Il am making love”. All these
conduct of the accused person amounted to outraging the
modesty of a woman attacked on the inner spirit of the woman
and all this attract the ingredient of section-7 of the POCSO Act
which is punishable u/s-8 of the POCSO Act.

31. The statement of the victim girl show accused took victim
girl inside the room keeping her brother outside to stand and when
victim told accused she will shout, accused brought a pillow show
accused used criminal force upon the victim girl, when he took
poor 11 years old girl inside the room when none was present
inside the room, then he made her sit on the bed, lift her frock and
pressed her breast and taking pillow to gagged her to kill her all
attracted the use of criminal force. Here the age of the victim girl
is only 11 years and taking a little girl inside the room in absence
of other that too in the pretext of giving something and then lifting
her frock and putting his hand on her breast and then pressing her
breast for which she sustain pain is amounted to use of criminal

force to outrage the modesty of the woman.

32. From my aforesaid discussion | come to my considerate
finding that prosecution fairly able to bring home the charge of
section 354 IPC and charge of section 8 of the POCSO Act against
the accused Basudev Deka beyond all reasonable doubt.

33. In the result, | hold accused Basudev Deka guilty of
committing offence punishable u/s-354 IPC and section-8 of the
POCSO Act and accordingly | convict accused Basudev Deka u/s-
354 IPC and section-8 of the POCSO Act. His bail stands cancelled.

34. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and
nature of the offence committed by the convicted accused

12 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

Basudev Deka, he is not entitled the benefit of Probation of
Offender Act or section 360 |.P.C. Accordingly, convicted accused
Basudev Deka is heard on the point of sentence. Accused plea is
of clemency. | have heard Id Special PP for the state and learned
defence counsel for the accused on the point of sentence.

HEARING ON SENTENCE

35. | have heard accused and his counsel and prosecution side
on the point of sentence. Accused pleaded mercy and his sentence
is written in a separate sheet enclosed with the case record. Ld.
accused counsel prayed for leniency considering the fact that ac-
cused is only earning member of the family and he is to look after
his ailing mother, wife and his children. Ld. Special P.P submits
that accused be sentenced in accordance with law.

36. Considering the nature of the offence and facts and circum-
stances under which accused have committed the offence of sex-
ual assault on a minor girl of 11 years and increasing number of
sexual assault on child, | am of the opinion that accused does not
deserve any leniency and he is to be dealt with exemplary punish-
ment so as to send message to the society that like-minded will

also be dealt in same manner.

RESULT
37. Accordingly, | hereby sentenced the accused Basudev Deka
to undergo R.I. for 4 (four) years and to pay fine of Rs. 3,000/- i/d 6
(six) months S.I. u/s-8 of the POCSO Act and further sentenced the
accused to undergo R.I. for 3 (three) years and to pay fine of Rs.
2,000/- i/d 4 (four) months S.I. u/s-354 IPC. All the sentences will

run concurrently.
ORDER

38. Accordingly, | hereby sentenced the accused Basudev Deka
to undergo R.I. for 4 (four) years and to pay fine of Rs. 3,000/- i/d 6
(six) months S.I. u/s-8 of the POCSO Act and further sentenced the

13 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

accused to undergo R.I. for 3 (three) years and to pay fine of Rs.
2,000/- i/d 4 (four) months S.I. u/s-354 IPC. All the sentences will

run concurrently.

39. Period under detention is set off u/s 428 Cr.P.C. Let furnish
free copy of Judgment to convicted accused Basudev Deka.

40. The convicted accused is told that he has right to appeal
against the judgment and order of this court before Hon’ble High
court through the jail authority or independently of his own. Con-
victed accused is further informed that he is entitled free legal aid

to prefer appeal before the Hon’ble High court.

41. Send copy of judgment to learned District Magistrate
Nalbari u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 29" day of
August, 2019 at Nalbari, District- Nalbari.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Nalbari
Dictated and Corrected by me,

(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Nalbari.

Typed by,
Biswajit Bhattacharjya
Copyist

14 of 15
Spl (P) Case No:39/17

APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses

PW-1, Sewali Medhi (informant),
PW-2, Miss ‘X’ (victim),

PW-3, Basanta Rajbongshi,
PW-4, Arjun Barman,

PW-5, Latika Harijon

PW-6, Manalisha M Bhakta (I/O).

Defence witness
NIL

Prosecution Exhibits

Ext-1, Ejahar,

Ext-2, statement of victim recorded u/s-164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-3 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence,
Ext-4, charge sheet.

Defence Exhibit
Nil.

Special Judge
Nalbari

15 of 15
