1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Special Case No. 105 of 2015 corresponding to
Kheroni Police Station Case No. 23 of 2014
Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Wilson Sangma

Name of informant/complainant:
Smt. Malika Sangma
S/o Shri Wilson Sangma
Village: Maimaru
P.S : Kheroni
District: Karbi Anglong
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Wilson Sangma
S/o Shri Robinson Marak

Village: Maimaru
P.S : Kheroni , District: Karbi Anglong

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution: Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor.
For the defence : Mr Jitu Paul.

Argument heard on : 06.9.2018.

Judgment pronounced & delivered on: 14-09-2018

UDGMENT

1. It is a case of aggravated penetrative sexual
assault upon a female child having age of 13 years
by her step father.
2|Page

The prosecution case in brief is that on 11-05-
2014 one Smt. Molika Sangma lodged a written
ejahar with Kheroni Police Station stating inter-alia
that while she went out of the house for work, her
accused husband taking advantage of her absence
was making sexual intercourse with her victim
daughter who was 13 years old as a result of
which she became pregnant. As the accused
person threatened her victim daughter to kill her if
she would disclosed the occurrence to anybody,
she refrained from disclosing the same to her and
others out of fear. On receipt of the written ejahar,
Kheroni Police Station registered a criminal case
under sections 376(2)(i) of the IPC R/W section 6
of the POCSO Act and started investigation. During
investigation, the accused was arrested and
forwarded to Judicial Custody. On completion of
investigation, charge sheet was submitted under
section 376(2)(i) of the IPC R/W 4 of the POCSO
Act against the accused person. Hence the

prosecution case.

On completion of appearance of the accused
person, copy was furnished to him. The accused
expressed his inability to engage any lawyer to
defend him and as such Mr. J. Paul, an advocate
from Diphu Bar Association has been appointed as
State Defence Counsel to defend him. Having
very carefully gone through submissions of
learned lawyers of both sides as well as case
diary, my predecessor found sufficient grounds for
presuming that the accused person committed
the offence under section 376(2)(i) of IPC R/W
section 4 of the POCSO Act and accordingly, the
3|Page

charge was framed. The particular of the charged
offence was duly read over and explained to the
accused to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried. During trial earlier charge
framed was altered to the section 6 of the POCSO
ACT and accordingly charge was framed. The
particular of offence charged was duly read over
and explained to him to which he pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as
many as nine witnesses including complainant and
the alleged victim of this case. Accused person
has been questioned under 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence
examined none. Plea of defence is of total denial.

Points for determination are:

(i)Whether the accused before 11-05-
2014 committed aggravated penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim child who is the daughter

of informant from her earlier husband?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through the
submissions of learned lawyers of both sides as
well as evidence on record. In the very beginning,
learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the accused
has submitted that the prosecution has totally
failed to prove its case beyond all reasonable
doubts. On the other hand, refuting the aforesaid
4|Page

submission, learned Public Prosecutor, Mr D.K.
Deka has submitted that prosecution has duly
succeeded in establishing its case. Prior to forming
an opinion on the rival submissions made by the
parties, | would like to give a glance at evidence

on record.

PW-1 is the medical officer who examined the
victim child. She has stated in her evidence on 12-
05-2014 the victim child was brought to her by
WPC No. 183 Smt Babita Baglary for medical
examination. On examination she found no mark
of external injury on her body. She also found that
her hymen was torn. Vagina examination was not
done due to her pregnancy. Ext-1 is the medical
report and Ext-1(1) is her signature.

PW-2 is the victim child who has stated in her
evidence that the informant is her mother and the
accused her step father. The occurrence took
place about 3 years back on a night. At the time of
occurrence her mother was in the house but only
she and the accused were there. After taking meal
she went for sleeping. She went to deep sleeping.
On awaking she found the accused on her bed and
her pant being removed. The accused seeing me
awaken pointing knife threatened to kill if she
would raise shouting and as such out of fear she
remained silent. There after the accused removed
his pant and penetrated his penis into her vagina
and went away. Again after one hour the accused
came to her bed while she was sleeping. On
awaking she found the accused removing her pant
and again he penetrated his penis to her vagina.
5|Page

In this way the accused started making sexual
intercourse with her against her will forcibly as a
result of which she became pregnant. She gave
birth to a steel baby. She refrained from disclosing
the matter to her mother as the accused
threatened to kill her if she would disclose her
mother. He mother got married the accused with
her and another sister on death of her father.
Police got her medically examined and _ her
statement recorded in the court. At the time of
occurrence she was 13 years old.

PW-3 is Malika Sangma who stated in her
statement that she is the informant of this case.
The victim girl is her daughter from her earlier
husband who already died. The accused is her
second husband. He got married with the accused
on death of his earlier husband with two daughters
from his side. Her daughters used to sleep on a
separate bed in a separate room for 2/3 days. The
house belongs to her. She saw the victim getting
day by day thin and her abdomen big. One day
one Bihari women who is residing near her house
told her that perhaps the victim conceived
pregnancy and advised her to get her medically
examined. Thereafter one day she went to Kheroni
Hospital the victim wherein the victim was got
medically examined. On examination attending
physician informed her that the victim was
carrying 6 months pregnancy. Thereafter on being
asked the victim informed her that the accused in
her absence forcibly started making sexual
intercourse with her as a result she became

pregnant. The victim also informed her mother
6|Page

10.

11.

that the accused threatened to kill her if she
would inform her about the occurrence. Thereafter
she approached to Mahila Samiti and ultimately he
lodged a written ejahar with Kheroni P.S. Police got
the victim medically examined and her statement
recorded in the court. Police also got her
statement recorded in the court. The victim gave
birth to a steel baby. Police arrested the accused.

PW-4 is Smt. Nikumoni Nath who stated in her
evidence that she knows the informant, victim,
and the accused. The informant got married to
accused with her two daughters from her earlier
husband who died already. The informant was
staying along with the accused and her daughters
in her own house. One day she came to know that
the victim was carrying 6 month as declared by
physician, the accused came home back and he
was apprehended by the local people. About 2
months back from the date on which the accused
was apprehended, he left the house. The accused
disclosed before her and the local people who
assemble in the house of the informant that he
made forcibly sexual intercourse with the victim
for several times. At the time of occurrence the
victim girl was 14/15 years old.

PW-5 is Purobi Bordoloi who stated in his
evidence that he knows the informant, victim and
the accused. The informant got married to
accused with her two daughters from her earlier
7|Page

12.

13.

husband who died already. The informant was
staying along with the accused and her daughters
in his own house. The occurrence took place in the
year 2013. When it was revealed that the victim
was carrying pregnancy, on being asked by the
villagers , the victim disclosed that the accused
made sexual intercourse with her forcibly for
several times as a result she became pregnant. At
that time she was also present. The victim told
them that the accused threatened to kill her if she
would disclose the matter to anybody else. When
the accused was apprehended by the local people,
he disclosed before them that he made sexual
intercourse with the victim for several times. The
victim gave birth to a steel baby. At the time of
occurrence the victim girl was about 13 years old.

PW-6 is Rokhila Marak who has stated in
her evidence that she knows the informant, victim
and accused. The informant was got married to
accused with her two daughters from her earlier
husband who died already. The informant was
staying along with the accused and her daughters
in his own house. While it was revealed that the
victim was carrying 6 months pregnancy, the
informant told her that by the accused the victim
became pregnant. The victim gave birth to a steel
baby.

For attracting the section 6 of the POCSO Act,
the victim needs to be below 18 years as section 2
(1)(d) of the Act. While the ejhar was lodged, the
victim was carrying 6 months pregnancy. The
8|Page

concerned investigating officer got the victim
medically examined in order to ascertaining her
age. Ext-1 is the medical report of the medical
officer who examined the victim which shows that
the medical officer could not examine her as she
was carrying pregnancy. The victim marked as PW-
2 has stated in her evidence that she was 13 years
old at the time of occurrence. Supporting evidence
of the victim regarding her age, PW-5 who is the
neighbourer of the informant has stated that at
the time of occurrence the victim was 13 years
old. PW-4 who is the immediate neighbourer of the
informant has stated in her evidence that at the
time of occurrence the victim was 14/15 years old.
No birth certificate of the victim has been
submitted. The evidence of informant mother is
silent that at the time of occurrence the victim
was 13 years old. There is no dispute that the
mother of the victim lodged the ejahar where in
she stated that at the time of occurrence, the
victim was 13 years old. That apart she stated the
Same in her statement recorded by the
investigating officer. She is a rustic illiterate
woman. Certainly due to nervous she forgot to
depose in her deposition that at the time of
occurrence the victim was 13 years old. The
defence has not disputed evidence of the victim
that at the time of occurrence she was 13 years
old. That apart her aforesaid evidence has been
corroborated by the evidence of PW-4 and PW-5.
PW-4 and PW-5 are immediate neighbourers of the
victim. The victim has been being raised before
their eyes. For the reasons that above, it can be
9|Page

14.

ia.

held comfortably that at the time of occurrence,
the victim was below 18 years.

It is evident that the occurrence took place
within four walls of the house belonging. The
accused is the step father of the victim and her
informant mother got married to the accused with
her and her sister. The informant had to go out
from the house keeping her two daughters in the
house relying upon the victim being deemed
father. Sometimes the informant had to come
home back in late night or to spend the night in
the working place. The matter came to the
knowledge of the informant when the victim was
carrying 6 months pregnancy. In this case, the
victim is most vital witness and entire prosecution

case lies on her testimony.

The victim has stated in his testimony the
entire facts very vividly that the occurrence took
place about 3 years back on a night. At the time of
occurrence her mother was in the house but only
she and the accused were there. After taking meal
she went for sleeping. She went to deep sleeping.
On awaking she found the accused on her bed and
her pant being removed. The accused seeing me
awaken pointing knife threatened to kill if she
would raise shouting and as such out of fear she
remained silent. There after the accused removed
his pant and penetrated his penis into her vagina
and went away. Again after one hour the accused
came to her bed while she was sleeping. On
awaking she found the accused removing her pant
10|Page

16.

and again he penetrated his penis to her vagina.
In this way the accused started making sexual
intercourse with her against her will forcibly as a
result of which she became pregnant. She gave
birth to a steel baby. She refrained from disclosing
the matter to her mother as the accused
threatened to kill her if she would disclose her
mother. The statement of the victim was got
recorded in the court where she gave similar story.

PW-3 is the mother of the victim and informant.
Her evidence shows that The victim girl is her
daughter from her earlier husband who already
died. The accused is her second husband. He got
married with the accused on death of his earlier
husband with two daughters from his side. Her
daughters used to sleep on a separate bed in a
separate room for 2/3 days. The house belongs to
her. She saw the victim getting day by day thin
and her abdomen big. One day one Bihari women
who is residing near her house told her that
perhaps the victim conceived pregnancy and
advised her to get her medically examined.
Thereafter one day she went to Kheroni Hospital
the victim wherein the victim was got medically
examined. On examination attending physician
informed her that the victim was carrying 6
months pregnancy. Thereafter on being asked the
victim informed her that the accused in her
absence forcibly started making sexual intercourse
with her as a result she became pregnant. The
victim also informed her mother that the accused
11|Page

17.

18.

threatened to kill her if she would inform her
about the occurrence.

From the evidence of the victim it is revealed
that she refrained from disclosing the matter to
her mother as the accused threatened her to kill
her if she would disclose the same to anybody. A
female child of 13/14 years old easily cannot
muster courage to disclose any occurrence like the
occurrence in question. It cannot be said that as
the victim refrained from disclosing the matter for
long six months, she was consenting. Considering
nature of the fact and circumstances of the instant
case | am convinced to hold that out of fear and
shame the victim refrained from disclosing the
occurrence to her mother and as such on the
ground of delay in disclosing the occurrence, the
prosecution case cannot be disbelieved and
thrown out out-rightly.

The evidence of the informant mother shows
that while she came to know from the physician
that the victim was carrying six month pregnancy,
on being asked the victim informed her that in her
absence the accused started making sexual inter-
course with her forcibly. There after she
approached to Mahila Samiti. Evidence of PW-4
shows that while the victim was carrying six
months pregnancy, the accused left the house and
came home back after two months. The accused
was apprehended by the local people and at that
time he disclosed that he made sexual intercourse
with victim forcibly for several times. Similarly PW-
12|Page

19.

20.

5 has stated in her testimony that while the
accused was apprehended by the local people, he
disclosed before her and others that he made
sexual intercourse with the victim for several
times. The accused has stated in the statement
recorded under section 313 CrPC that the victim
made him compelled to make sexual intercourse
for one time against his will. The said statement
shows that the accused made sexual intercourse
with the victim. But his version that the victim
compelled him to make sexual intercourse with
her. It is corroborative evidence that the accused

made extra-judicial confession.

What the Hon'ble Apex Court holds in the case
of Kumar v. State of T.N. reported in “ (2013)
12 SCC 699” in respect of extra judicial
confession is reproduced below- “16. The law is
well settled as to what extent extra-judicial
confession can be relied on. If the same is
voluntary and made in a fit state of mind, it can be
relied upon along with other materials. It is true
that the extra-judicial confession is a weak type of
evidence and depends upon the nature of
circumstances like the time when the confession
was made and the credibility of the witnesses who
speak to such a confession.”

In the case of Sahadevan v. State of T.N.
reported in “ (2012) 6 SCC 403” in respect of
extra judicial confession it is held thus- “14, It
is a settled principle of criminal jurisprudence that
extra-judicial confession is a weak piece of
evidence. Wherever the court, upon due
13|Page

Dicks

22.

appreciation of the entire prosecution evidence,
intends to base a conviction on an extra-judicial
confession, it must ensure that the same inspires
confidence and _ is’ corroborated by _ other
prosecution evidence. If, however, the extra-
judicial confession suffers from material
discrepancies or inherent improbabilities and does
not appear to be cogent as per the prosecution
version, it may be difficult for the court to base a
conviction on such a_ confession. In such
circumstances, the court would be fully justified in
ruling such evidence out of consideration.”

There is no evidence on record showing that
the accused was assaulted by the villagers after
his apprehending and as such it can be presumed
that the accused voluntarily confessed before PW-
4, PW-5 and others that he made sexual
intercourse with the victim forcibly for several
times. It is found that the extra-judicial confession
finds corroboration.

Regarding credibility of the child witness
it has been observed by Hon'ble Apex Court in
the case law of Raj Kumar V State of MP
reported in “ (2014) 5 SCC 353” thus:-“
Evidence of child witness must be evaluated
more carefully and with greater
circumspection because a child is susceptible
to be swayed by what others tell him.”
Similarly the Hon'ble Apex Court has also
observed in case of Alagupandi V State of
TN reported in “ (2012) 10 SCC 451”
thus:-“ While assessing evidence of child
witness, court must carefully observe his/her
demeanour to eliminate likelihood of tutoring.

Conviction can be allowed to stand without
14|Page

Zs

any corroboration but as a rule of prudence it
is always desirable to seek corroboration of
such evidence from other reliable evidence on

record.

The informant has stated in her testimony
that at the time occurrence she had to stay in
the house where she worked for 2/3 days. The
facts remains that the accused _ taking
advantage of absence of the informant made
sexual intercourse forcibly with the victim on
threat. There is evidence that the victim gave
birth to a steel baby. In such a case court can
convict the accused on the sole evidence of
the victim child if it inspires the confidence of
the court. In this regard | would like to refer to
the case of Narender Kumar v. State (NCT
of Delhi) reported in “ (2012) 7 SCC 171” and
its relevant paragraph is_ re-produced
below:-“20. It is a settled legal proposition
that once the statement of the prosecutrix
inspires confidence and is accepted by the
court as such, conviction can be based only on
the solitary evidence of the prosecutrix and no
corroboration would be required unless there
are compelling reasons which necessitate the
court for corroboration of her statement.
Corroboration of testimony of the prosecutrix
as a condition for judicial reliance is not a
requirement of law but a _ guidance of

prudence under the given’ facts and
15|Page

24.

25.

circumstances. Minor contradictions or
insignificant discrepancies should not be a
ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable
prosecution case.” Taking all aspects into
consideration | find no way to disbelieve the

evidence of the victim.

In this case the prosecution could not
examine the investigating officer in-spite of
sufficient opportunities allotted. In the instant
there is no contraction which needs to be
confirmed by examining the _ investigating
officer. Nothing was seized in connection with
this case which needs to be proved by the
investigating officer. For the reasons stated
above no dent resulted in the prosecution

Case.

Aggravated penetrative sexual assault is
defined in the section 5 of the POCSO Act
which reads thus:-“ Aggravated
penetrative sexual assault.-a. Whoever,
being a police officer, commits penetrative
sexual assault on a child i. within the
limits of the police station or premises at
which he is appointed; or ii. in the
premises of any station house, whether or not
situated in the police station, to which he is
appointed; or iil. in the course of his
duties or otherwise; or _ iv. where he is

known as, or identified as, a police officer; or
16|Page

b. whoever being a member of the armed
forces or security forces commits penetrative
sexual assault on a child- i. within the
limits of the area to which the person is
deployed; oil. in any areas under the
command of the forces or armed forces; o
ill. in the course of his duties or
otherwise; or iv. where the said person is
known or identified as a member of the
security or armed forces; or c. whoever
being a public servant commits penetrative
sexual assault on a child; or d. whoever
being on the management or on the staff of a
jail, remand home, _ protection home,
observation home, or other place of custody
or care and protection established by or under
any law for the time being in force, commits
penetrative sexual assault on a child, being
inmate of such jail, remand home, protection
home, observation home, or other place of
custody or care and_ protection; or
e. whoever being on the management or
Staff of a hospital, whether Government or
private, commits penetrative sexual assault
on a child in that hospital; or f. whoever
being on the management or staff of an
educational institution or religious institution,
commits penetrative sexual assault on a child
in that institution; or g. whoever commits
gang penetrative sexual assault on a child.
Explanation.- When a child is subjected to
17|Page

sexual assault by one or more persons of a
group in furtherance of their common
intention, each of such persons shall be
deemed to have committed gang penetrative
sexual assault within the meaning of this
clause and each of such person shall be liable
for that act in the same manner as if it were
done by him alone; or h. whoever commits
penetrative sexual assault on a child using
deadly weapons, fire, heated substance or
corrosive substance; or I. whoever commits
penetrative sexual assault causing grievous
hurt or causing bodily harm and injury or
injury to the sexual organs of the child; or
j. whoever commits penetrative sexual
assault on a child, which- i. physically
incapacitates the child or causes the child to
become mentally ill as defined under clause
(1) of section 2 of the Mental Health Act, 1987
Or causes impairment of any kind so as to
render the child unable to perform regular
tasks, temporarily or permanently;
or li. in the case of female child,
makes the child pregnant as a
consequence of sexual assault
ill. inflicts the child with Human
Immunodeficiency Virus or any other life
threatening disease or infection which may
either temporarily or permanently impair the
child by rendering him physically
incapacitated, or mentally ill to perform
18|Page

regular tasks; or k. whoever, taking
advantage of a child's mental or physical
disability, commits penetrative sexual assault
on the child; or Il. whoever commits
penetrative sexual assault on the child
more than once or _ repeatedly; or
m. whoever commits penetrative sexual
assault on a child below twelve years; or
n. whoever being a relative of the child
through blood or adoption or marriage or
guardianship or in foster care or having a
domestic relationship with a parent of the
child or who is living in the same or shared
household with the child, commits penetrative
sexual assault on such child; or 0. whoever
being, in the ownership, or management, or
Staff, of any institution providing services to
the child, commits penetrative sexual assault
on the child; or p. whoever being in a
position of trust or authority of a child
commits penetrative sexual assault on the
child in an institution or home of the child or
anywhere else; or gq. whoever commits
penetrative sexual assault on a child knowing
the child is pregnant; orr. whoever commits
penetrative sexual assault on a child and
attempts to murder the child; ors. whoever
commits penetrative sexual assault on a child
in the course of communal or sectarian
violence; or i. whoever commits

penetrative sexual assault on a child and who
19|Page

26.

27.

28.

has been previously convicted of having
committed any offence under this Act or any
sexual offence punishable under any other law
for the time being in force; or u.. whoever
commits penetrative sexual assault on a child
and makes the child to strip or parade naked
in public, is said to commit aggravated

penetrative sexual assault

It is evident that because of sexual
intercourse, the victim became pregnant and
that she gave birth to a steel baby. It is also
evident that the accused made sexual
intercourse with the victim for several times.

The section 6 of the POCSO Act relates to
punishment for committing aggravating
penetrative sexual assault which reads thus-:-
“6. Punishment for aggravated penetrative
sexual assault.-Whoever, commits aggravated
penetrative sexual assault, shall be punished with
rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not
be less than ten years but which may extend to
imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to
fine.

Under section 29 of the POCSO Act, 2012
the court can draw presumption that the
accused person was_ involved in_- the
occurrence in question if the defence fails to
prove contrary to the fact where upon the
prosecution relies. The said section reads
thus:-“29. Presumption as_ to. certain
offences.-Where a person is prosecuted for
20|Page

29.

30.

31.

committing or abetting or attenuating to
commit any offence under sections 3,5,7 and
section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall
presume, that such person has committed or
abetted or attempted to commit the offence,
as the case may be unless the contrary is
proved.” In the instant case the defence has
only taken plea that he was no way involved
in commission of alleged occurrence. In the
instant case the defence the defence has
failed to bring the contrary to the prosecution

version.

Order

In the result, | find the accused Sri Wilson
Sangma guilty under section 6 of the POCSO
Act and accordingly he is convicted.

On the point of sentence, the accused is
heard and to that effect his statement is
recorded where he has prayed for leniency in
sentencing him.

It has been argued by the learned defence
counsel that it is a fit case where the court can
shower leniency in sentencing the accused person.
On the other hand the learned Public Prosecutor
has submitted that in the instant case the accused
deserves to be punished with life imprisonment
and huge fine.
21|Page

32.

33.

It is a case of a female child having aged
about 13/14 years who became pregnant before
her marriage. She carried her unexpected
pregnancy till giving birth to a steel baby. It is so
hard job for female having age of 13/14 years to
carry a pregnancy. It was the accused person who
snatched away her entire beautiful childhood. It is
not easy for a rape victim to spend her life after
the occurrence in context of feeling and attitude of
Indian society.

Regarding object of the POCSO Act, the
Hon'ble Apex has observed in case of Eera v.
State (NCT of Delhi) reported in “(2017)
15 SCC 133” thus :-“20. The purpose of
referring to the Statement of Objects and
Reasons and the Preamble of the Pocso Act is
to appreciate that the very purpose of
bringing a legislation of the present nature is
to protect the children from the sexual
assault, harassment and exploitation, and to
secure the best interest of the child. On an
avid and_ diligent discernment of the
Preamble, it is manifest that it recognises the
necessity of the right to privacy and
confidentiality of a child to be protected and
respected by every person by all means and
through all stages of a judicial process
involving the child. Best interest and well-
being are regarded as being of paramount
importance at every stage to ensure the
22|Page

34.

healthy physical, emotional, intellectual and
social development of the child. There is also
a stipulation that sexual exploitation and
sexual abuse are heinous offences and need
to be effectively addressed. The Statement of
Objects and Reasons provides regard being
had to the constitutional mandate, to direct its
policy towards securing that the tender age of
children is not abused and their childhood is
protected against exploitation and they are
given facilities to develop in a healthy manner
and in conditions of freedom and dignity.
There is also a mention which is quite
Significant that interest of the child, both as a
victim as well as a witness, needs to be
protected. The stress is on providing child-
friendly procedure. Dignity of the child has
been laid immense emphasis in the scheme of
legislation. Protection and interest occupy the
seminal place in the text of the Pocso Act.”.

It appears that the female child is not at all
protected in their house also and they become
victimized in the hands of their own nearest
relatives. To curve sexual atrocity inflicted
upon child this legislation has been brought as
reflected from the observation made in the
above case laws. The accused appears to be a
person having of 56 years. In Garu Community
women are dominating role. The accused has

nothing to lose.
23|Page

35.

36.

Si.

Taking all aspects into consideration |
order the accused person Shri Wilson Sangma to
suffer RI of 10 years and to pay fine of Rs. 25000/-
i/d SI for 2 years. Set off his earlier detention
period. Let the fined money be paid to the victim if
realized. Let a certified copy of the order and
Judgment be supplied to the accused person at
free of cost. Let a copy of this Judgment be
furnished to the District Magistrate, Diphu Karbi
Anglong in terms of section 365 of the CrPC.

It is not a fit case wherein the victim
deserves to be awarded with compensation
for immediate rehabilitation as per section
33(8) of the POCSO Act. However for her
rehabilitation she needs strong financial
assistant. State has failed to protect small
helpless girl who lost the shadow and
affection of her father while she was infant.
Now the State needs to come forward to
compensate she suffered. Hence | do hereby
recommend adequate compensation to be
paid to the victim through her informant
mother under the Victim Compensation
Scheme as laid down in the section 357 A of
the CrPC after due inquiry by DLSA, Karbi
Anglong, Diphu. Inform accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of the Court
on this 14 September, 2018 at Diphu, Karbi
Anglong.
24|Page

Dictated and Corrected by me

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed,
AJS )

Special Judge Special Judge

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses Prosecution Exhibited
PW-1 is Dr. Kari Kropi Ext-1 Medical Report
PW-2 is Purnima Sangma Defence Exhibited :
Nil

PW-3 is Malika Sangma
PW-4 is Nikumoni Nath
PW-5 is Purobi Bordoloi
PW-6 is Rokhila Marak

Defence Witnesses : Nil

(Md. A.U Ahmed, AJS)

Special Judge, Karbi Anglong,
Diphu
