Page 1 of 8

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination’of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

70 OF 2017

( Under Section 363 of the IPC read with
Section 4 of the POCSO Act )

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-Vs-

1. Sri Krishna Tanti
Son of Late Mahabir Tanti
Resident of Tin Khoria TE
Police Station —Dhekiajuli,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam.

1. Prabhu Nath Mahanand
Son of Late Santi Mahannand
Resident of Tin Khoria TE
Police Station — Dhekiajuli,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam.

22/06/2018

06/09/2018 & 15/09/2018

15/09/2018

15/09/2018

15/09/2018

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Smti D.M. Sinha, Advocate.

 
Page 2 of 8

JUDGMENT

1. In this case the accused Sri Krishna Tanti and Sri Prabhu Nath
Mahanand are put for trial for the allegation of charge u/s 363 of the IPC and 4
of the POCSO Act.

2. The factual matrix of the case in brief is that on or about 4 p.m. of 04-
12-2017, informant’s minor daughter Miss X went to a shop to bring mustard oil
and washing soap but did not return. The informant came to know that while
his daughter went to bring articles from a shop, accused persons restrained
her and forcefully took her in a bicycle and kidnapped her, kept her in the tea
estate and whole the night she has been raped for severaltimes. As informant’s
daughter did not return so through out the night, he searched his daughter but
could not find her. On 05-12-2017 at about 11‘a.m. their daughter came to his
house and narrated the whole incident. Hence this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the complainant Kartik Tanti before the O/C of
Dhekiajuli PS on 05-12-2017. On. receipt the ejahar the O/C Dhekiajuli P.S.
registered the case, vide Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 1103/17 under Section 363 of
the IPC read with Section 4/6 of POCSO Act. On completion of investigation, the
O/C of Dhekiajuli PS sent up*the case for trial against the accused persons
under Section 363.of the IPC read with Section 4/6 of POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused persons before this Court, after hearing
both parties, framed charge under section 363 of the IPC read with Section 4/6
of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused persons and particulars of the charge
was ‘read over, explained to the accused to which they pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.

®. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 4 (four)
numbers of witnesses which includes the informant, victim and other witnesses.
Learned counsel for the accused submitted to close the evidence on the ground
that the statement of complainant and victim no way supported the prosecution
case so it would be futile to examine the other witnesses. I have heard the
learned Special Public Prosecutor. Considering the statement made by
complainant, victim and other material witnesses, I think that it would be futile

to examine the other witnesses. Even if examined the other witnesses,

 
Page 3 of 8

prosecution case would not develop. Speedy trial is the right of the accused
persons. Considering the materials and facts as narrated above, the prosecution
evidence is closed.

6. After completion of prosecution evidence accused is examined u/s 313
Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and evidence appears
against the accused are put before them for explanation where they denied the

evidence and allegation and declined to give defence evidence.

7. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of both
sides.
8. The points for decision in this case are that:

i) Whether the accused on or about 04-12-2017.at-about 7 p.m. at
Natun line, Tinkhuria Tea Estate under Dhekiajuli Police station
kidnapped Miss X (13 years of age).from lawful guardian of
complainant and committed»penetrative sexual assault on Miss X
(victim) in the whole night.at Tinkhuria Tea Estate and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on
record.

10. PW -1°Sri Kartik Tanti, the complainant of this case, has stated before
the Court that he Knows both the accused namely Prabhu Nath and Kirshna
Tanti. Victim is her daughter. At the relevant time she was 13 years old. The
incident.took place in the month of December, 2017. In the evening of the day
of incident, he sent his victim daughter to bring mustard oil and soap to a shop
but she did not return home. They vigorously searched her. Again she went to
the shop where she had went, But did not find her. Next day morning his victim
daughter came to his house. While he enquired she told that she went to the
house of Sanjay as she afraid of them. Some of the public of their garden told
that both the accused persons took his daughter in a cycle to the side of
garden. Then he filed the ejahar before the Dhekiajuli Police station. The ejahar
was written by a scribe as per instruction of some boys. Then he put signature

thereon. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. Then police came
Page 4 of 8

and sent his daughter to medical examination. Thereafter, she was sent for
recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. to the learned court. Police also

recorded his statement.

In cross-examination, he admitted that the ejahar was not read over to
him. Accused persons are their relatives. Accused persons were also
accompanied him while searching his victim daughter. Accused persons are
innocent. Due to misunderstanding he filed this case. He cannot say, the exact

age of his victim daughter.

11. PW-2 Sri Pradip Gowala, stated that he knows both the accused namely
Prabhu Nath and Kirshna Tanti. He also knows the complainant ‘and victim. At
the relevant time she was about 13 years old. The incident took place on 04-
12-2017. In the next day of incident, Manager of the.J ea-Estate called him and

asked him to compromise the matter. Police recorded:my statement.

In cross-examination, he admitted that both complainant and accused

persons are his neighbours.

12. PW- 3 Sri Bikram Munda stated that he knows both the accused namely
Prabhu Nath and Kirshna* Tanti. I also know the complainant and victim. At the
relevant time she was about 13 years old. The incident took place on 04-12-
2017. In the next day*he came to know from the victim that both the accused
persons kidnapped her and took inside the garden and committed misdeed.

Misdeed means rape.

In ‘cross-examination, he admitted that he stated about the age of the

victim ‘on suspect. He does not know if she is above 18 years of age.

13. PW- 4, the victim Miss X, stated that Complainant is her father. She
knows both the accused namely Prabhu and Krishna. The incident took place
about 2/3 months ago at night. At the relevant time she went to the shop to
bring oil and washing soap. The money which she had taken i.e. one hundred
rupees note was missing so she could not be able to bring the oil and washing
soap. Out of fear she did not go to my house, instead she went to her aunty’s

house. In the next morning, she went to her house. During that time local

 
Page 5 of 8

people of their line raised hulla and asked her where she had been to, she told
them that she had been to shop to bring the oil and washing soap but the
money which she had taken was missing. Therefore, without bringing the said
materials, she went to her aunty’s house and stayed there for the night out of
fear. Thereafter, at the instruction of local public her father filed the case.
Police came and recorded her statement, sent her to the hospital for medical
examination and to the learned court for recording her statement u/s 164

Cr.P.C she put her thumb impression on some papers.

In cross-examination she admitted that when she returned.to home, her
father assaulted her and asked her why she misused the said hundred rupee
note and did not return to home. During that time she raised alarm and local
people arrived there. She told the gathered people that she has lost her
hundred rupee note which was given by her father.to purchase oil and washing
soap. Then local people asked her father;to put signature in a prepared paper.
After instituting the case, police came, recorded, her statement, also sent her to
the doctor and thereafter she had beenssent to the learned court for recording
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P:-C.\At ‘the instruction of local public she gave
statement before the learned*Magistrate out of fear. She has no objection if the

accused persons are enlarged on acquittal.

14, These much isthe evidence of the prosecution case. Defence plea is
total denial»while his. statement was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

15. Here in this case, the charge against the accused persons are framed
u/s 363 of the IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act.

To prove the charge u/s 363 of the IPC, the prosecution must prove

that -
i) That the person in question was at the time of the offence in
India.
ii) That the accused conveyed that person beyond the limits of
India.

ili) That he did so without the consent of that person, or of some

person legally authorized to consent on that persons’ behalf.

 
Page 6 of 8

For kidnapping from guardianship prove — (i) that the person in question
was at the time of the offence a minor under sixteen years of age (if a
male), or under eighteen years of age (if a female); or that such person
was of unsound mind.
16. —_Here in this case neither the victim nor complainant stated any of the
ingredients of the alleged offence u/s 363 of the IPC as such, the charge u/s
363 is failed.
17. Similarly, to bring the charge under section 4 of the Protection.of Child
from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, prosecution must prove. the. ingredients
mentioned in section 3 of the POCSO Act.

Section 3 of the POCSO Act quoted as follows:

Section 3. Penetrative Sexual assault,.- \A person is said to

 

commit "pemetrative sexual assault” if -

(a) he penetrates his penis, to ‘any extent, into the
vagina, mouth, .urethra_or anus of a child or
makes the child.to do .so with him or any other
person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of
the body, not.being the penis, into the vagina,
the urethra or anus of the child or makes the
child to do so with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child
so as to cause penetration into the vagina,
urethra, anus or any part of body o the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other
person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus,
urethra of the child or makes the child to do so
to such person or any other person.

18. —_ Here in this case, the victim herself stated that at the relevant time she
went to bring oil and washing soap. The money which she had taken i.e. one
hundred rupees note was missing so she could not be able to bring the oil and
washing soap. Out of fear she did not go to my house, instead she went to her
aunty’s house. In the next morning, she went to her house. During that time
local people of their line raised hulla and asked her where she had been to, she

told them that she had been to shop to bring the oil and washing soap but the

 
Page 7 of 8

money which she had taken was missing. Therefore, without bringing the said
materials, she went to her aunty’s house and stayed there for the night out of
fear. Thereafter, at the instruction of local public her father filed the case.
Police came and recorded her statement, sent her to the hospital for medical
examination and to the learned court for recording her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. In cross-examination she admitted that she made statement before the
police and Magistrate at the instruction of local public out of fear. She has no

objection if the accused persons are enlarged on acquittal.

From the statement of victim and complainant, none of the ingredients
of the alleged charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act is proved.

19. In view of the aforesaid discussions, I have no‘hesitation to hold that
the prosecution has categorically failed to prove.the alleged charge against the
accused beyond any reasonable doubt. Hence, the accused, namely Sri Krishna
Tanti and Sri Prabhu Nath Mahanand are acquitted on benefit of doubt and set
them at liberty forthwith.

20. ‘The liabilities of the bailors are hereby discharged.

21. Given under my*Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 15" day of
September, 2018.

(A.K. Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Dictated.and corrected by me

(A.K. Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
Prosecution Witness No.1

Prosecution Witness No.2

Prosecution Witness No.3

Prosecution Witness No.4

Exhibit 1

Page 8 of 8

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

= Sri Kartik Tanti, informant
- Sri Pradip Gowala,
I. Sri Bikram Munda
a Victim.
EXHIBITS.

= Ejahar

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
