IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: ShriS. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 5 (DH)/ 2018.

U/S 341/354/ of IPC R/W Sec.8 of POCSO Act.

 

The State of Assam
- Versus —
Shri Jintu Boruah,
S/O Rajen Boruah,
Vill. Dulia Gaon,
P.S. Dhakuakhana,
Dist.- Lakhimpur (Assam)

Appearance:
Shri A. Fogla, Public Prosecutor

Smt. Junmoni Chutia, Advocate

Date of prosecution evidence

Date of argument

Date of Judgment

cvleninesobvenens Accused Person

a For the State

‘aiatimcadistoas .For the Accused

: 14-12-2018.

: 18-01-2019.

: 18-01-2019.
qo”

special Judge
phoned.

JUDGMENT

Ls The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 06-01-2018
complainant- Shri Arun Gogoi lodged an ejahar with the Dhemaji Police
Station alleging interalia that on that day i.e. on 06-01-2018 at about 12.30
noon while his sister-in-law Smti Popi Saikia was returning to their rented
house along with him (complainant) after appearing in her H.S. 2°¢ Year
Test Examination, the accused-Jintu Boruah along with another boy
wrongfully restrained her on the road near Dhemaji Auditorium and accused
Jintu Boruah grabbed her and misbehaved her. It is also alleged in the ejahar
that when the complainant protested the activities of accused , he (accused-
Jintu) threatened him and then the other co-accused also identified himself

as police personnel and threatened him (the complainant).

Ze On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused Jintu BOruah u/s 341/354 of IPC R/W Sec. 8 of the
POCSO Act.

3, On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 341/354 of IPC R/W Sec. 8 of POCSO Act
and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined two witnesses. At the
closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused person was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the defence
adduced no evidence in support of their case.

4, Point for determination :

 

(1) That you, on 06-01-2018 at about 12.30 noon at Dhemaji
Milan Nagar under Dhemaji Police Station, wrongfully restrained Smt.
Popi Saikia, a minor girl, on the road near Dhemaji Auditorium and

thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 341 of IPC.

(2) That, on the same day, time and place you used criminal
force to SMti Popi Saikia, a minor girl, intending to outrage her, and
thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 354 of IPC.

(3) Popi Saikia and thereby you committed an offence
punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

5. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

6. PW1 Smti Popi stated that the Complainant is her brother-in-
law. She knows the accused. Incident took place about one year back.
Accused is from her village. He often tried to meet her whenever she went to
college but, she was always avoiding him. On the day of occurrence while she
along with her brother-in-law was returning home from the college, the
accused met her on the road and he expressed that he loved her. Her
brother-in-law got up-set and annoyed and she also felt disturbed because of
the behavior of the accused.Then her brother-in-law lodged complaint before
police so that the accused could not repeat such thing in future. After filing of
the complaint, accused met her parents and apologized for what he had done
on that particular day. The accused,thereafter, did not make any attempt to
meet her. Earlier also the accused did not abuse her physically at any point of
time.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that now they are
maintaining cordial relation with the accused and they have decided not to
proceed against the accused. Further, PW1 stated that she has no objection if
the accused is acquitted in this case.
9
qo

Special Juage,
Dhema.

Fe PW2 Shri Arun Gogoi is the complainant. He stated that the
Victim (PW1) is his sister-in-law. Incident took place about one year back.
Accused is from his sister-in-law’s village. He often tried to meet her
whenever she went to college but, she was always avoiding him. On the day
of occurrence while she along with him was returning home from the college,
the accused met them on the road and he expressed that he loved her. He
got up-set and annoyed and he also felt disturbed because of the behavior of
the accused. Then he lodged complaint before police so that the accused
could not repeat such thing in future. After filing of the complaint, accused
met their parents and apologized for what he had done on that particular
day. The accused, thereafter did not make any attempt to meet his sister-in-
law. Earlier also the accused did not abuse her physically at any point of time.
Exhibit-1 is the ejahar and EXt-1(1) is his signature therein.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that now they are
maintaining cordial relation with the accused and they have decided not to
proceed against the accused. Further, PW2 stated that she has no objection if

the accused is acquitted in this case.

Appreciation of evidence :

8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that
in this case the victim and the complainant-Arun Gogoi (brother-in-law of the
victim) were examined as P.W-1 and PW2 respectively. In their evidence this
two vital witnesses stated that the accused often tried to meet the victim
whenever she went to her college but, the victim was always avoiding him.
On the day of occurrence while she along with the complainant (PW2) was
returning home from the college, the accused met them on the road and he
expressed that he loved her. Both of them (PWs-1 & 2) got up-set and
annoyed and they also felt disturbed because of the behavior of the accused.
Then PW2 lodged complaint before police so that the accused could not
repeat such thing in future. After filing of the complaint, accused met their
parents and apologized for what he had done on that particular day. The
accused, thereafter, did not make any attempt to meet the victim (PW1).
Earlier also the accused did not abuse her physically at any point of time. In
cross-examination, PW1 and PW2 stated that now they are maintaining
cordial relation with the accused and they have decided not to proceed
against the accused. They further in cross-examination stated that they have
no objection if the accused is acquitted in this case. Prosecution side declined
to examine the remaining witnesses on the ground that examination of other

witnesses will not improve the prosecution case at all.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences. This is a case of no evidence. It is also seen from the
evidence of the PWs- 1 and 2 that both the parties have compromised the
case outside the Court and hence they have not deposed against the
accused. I find that the prosecution has totally failed to prove the charges
u/s 341/354 of IPC read with Sec.- 80f the POCSO Act against the accused.

10. In view of the above, I find the accused-Jintu Boruah not
guilty u/s 341/354 of the I.P.C. read with Section-8 of POCSO Act.
Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charges leveled against him. Set him at
liberty forthwith.

11. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 18"
day of January, 2019.
wl?
[o"
\%
( S. Das )
Spgpaeiht luge,

Direrengiji.
