PAGE NO: 1 SPECLAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 03 OF 2018.

IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE (FTC),
DARRANG, MANGALDAI

PRESENT: Mr. J.M.Barman, A.J.S.,
Additional Sessions Judge(FTC),
Darrang, Mangaldai.

Special (POCSO) Case No. 03 of 2018.
(U/S : 420/376 of I.P.C. R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act)

(Forwarded by the learned Addl. Chief Judicial Magistrate, Darrang, Mangaldai .)
State of Assam
-Versus-

Dhan Moni Nath @ Niranjan Nath,
S/O. Sri Bharat Chandra Nath,
Vill.- Chakiapara,
P.S. Sipajhar,
Dist.- Darrang (Assam),
acces Accused person.

APPEARANCE:

Advocate for the State : Sri Dulal Kr. Ghosh, learned Addl.P.P.,

Advocate for the accused : Mr. M.M Nath , learned Advocate.

Date of framing charge : 12-01-2018.

Date of evidence : 24-01-18, 21-02-18, 02-04-18, 17-05-18,
27-06-19, 01-11-19.

Date of argument : 18.12.19

Date of judgment : 18.12.19

JUDGMENT
PROSECUTION CASE
1. The prosecution story, in brief, is that informant Mukunda Nath lodged an
F.I.R. before the In-Charge of Patharighat Police Out Post on 8-10-2017
alleging that in the month of April, 2017 , the accused, having love
PAGE NO: 2 SPECLAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 03 OF 2018.

affairs with his daughter, aged about 16 years, with a promise to marry
her, had committed sexual intercourse with her. After providing
treatment to his daughter, now, he has come to know from the Doctor
that his daughter in carrying pregnancy of 7 months. Hence this case.
INVESTIGATION

2. After appearance of the accused person, copies of the relevant
documents were furnished to him by learned Special Judge, Darrang
Mangaldai and after hearing the submission of the learned P.P for the
state as well as learned defence counsel on the point of charge and after
going through the relevant documents as furnished by the investigating
officer under section 173 of CrP.C, learned Special Judge, Darrang,
Mangaldai had framed charge against the accused person under section
420/376 of I.P.C read with section 6 of POCSO Act and content of the
charges mention above were read over and explained to him to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

TRIAL

3. Learned Special Judge, Darrang Mangaldai after recording of 5
(five) numbers of the prosecution witnesses, has transfer the case
record to this court for disposal. The prosecution side has examined as
many as 6 (six) Nos. of witnesses and exhibited some documents in
support of its case. Thereafter evidence for the prosecution side is
closed and the statement of accused under section 313 CrP.C was
recorded. The plea of the accused is of total denial. However, he has not

adduced any evidence in his favour.
Points for determination :

a. Whether the accused, on or about prior to filing of ejahar on
08/10/17 under Sipajhar P.S. cheated Kalyani Nath, daughter — of
informant Mukunda Nath by dishonestly inducing her by promising to
marry her committed sexual intercourse on her and_ thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 420 of Indian

Penal Code ?
PAGE NO: 3 SPECLAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 03 OF 2018.

4.

b. Whether the accused on or about on the same period of time and
place as above, committed rape on Kalyani Nath and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 376 of Indian
Penal Code read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act ?

DISCUSSION , DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :

I have perused the evidence on record of the prosecution side. I
have also heard the submission of learned additional P.P appearing on

behalf of the state as well as learned defence counsel

P.W-1 Dr. Lipika Bora, the medical officer deposed in her evidence
that on 09-10-2017, she was working as Senior Medical and Health
Officer at Sipajhar Block PHC. On that day on police requisition and in
connection with Sipajhar P.S. Case No. 821/17, under section 376/420
IPC, she examined Miss Kalyani Nath, daughter of Mukunda Nath,
Village- Senapatipara, P.S. Sipajhar who was escorted and identified by
WHG Putuli Deka and found the following-

Identification Mark-1) One black mole on the left side of the cheek,

(2) A small black mole over left side of the face.

Physical Examination : Height — 4 feet 3 inches,Weight — 40 K.G.,
Teeth-28 numbers, Hair- long, Axillary hair- developed, Pubic Hair-
developed, Breast- developed, Hymen- not intact, Valve-developed,

Uterus-bulky, Vagina-developed, Libia: Mazora -developed.

At the time of examination, no injury mark is seen in the private parts of

the victim.
Vaginal swab examination for Spermatozoa- No spermatozoa seen.

Radiological Examination: _ X-ray for age determination was not
recommended because the victim was pregnant. Examination of urine

was advised but denied to do.
PAGE NO: 4 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 03 OF 2018.
Ultrasonography Report : Reveals senile line fetus of 31 + one week
of gestation.

Remarks :
1. No injury mark seen on the private parts of the victim.

2. Vaginal swab for presence of spermatozoa and urine for pregnancy

test was advised but not done by the victim.
3. X-ray was not recommended as the victim was pregnant.
4. USG shows 31 + one week of live fetus.

5. No definite sign of rape was found at the time of examination.

6. She exhibited the medical report as Ext-1 and her signature as
Ext-4 (1).

7. Her cross-examination is declined by the defence side.

8. P.W-2 Mukunda Ram Nath is the father and the informant of the

instant case. He deposed in his evidence that he knows the accused. He
deposed that his daughter (victim) appeared in the H.S.L.C. Examination
in the year 2017. After passing out the H.S.L.C examination, she got
admitted in the H.S. first year in Burhinagar College. While she was
pursuing her study, they noticed the symptom of pregnancy on her body.
Then they got her examined by the Doctor who had confirmed the
pregnancy. Then she disclosed the name of the accused who had caused
the pregnancy. Thereafter, he called the accused Dhanmani Nath to his
house, but he did not come to his house and finally he lodged the ejahar
before Patharighat out Post. He exhibited the ejahar as Ext-2, and his
signature as Ext-2(1). At the time of incident the age of his daughter

was 16 years.

9. In his cross-examination he deposed that he came to know about

the pregnancy of his daughter after seven months pregnancy and during
PAGE NO: 5 SPECLAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 03 OF 2018.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

those seven month his daughter did not disclose anything about her
pregnancy. He deposed in his cross-examination that he has not
disclosed about the fact of pregnancy of his daughter to his neighbouring
people. He denied to a suggestion of defence side that his daughter did

not disclose the name of accused person who was pregnancy to her.

P.W-3 (Dipti Nath) deposed that the victim is her sister-in-law and
she knows the accused. Her parental house is situated at Barpeta and
her matrimonial house is situated at Senapatipara. She is residing in her
parental home. She came to know about the incident from her mother-
in-law that the victim recorded pregnancy. Getting the aforesaid
information, she came to her in-law's house and came to know that the
aforesaid pregnancy was caused by accused Dhanmani Nath @ Niranjan
Nath.

In her cross-examination she admitted that during her casual visit
in her in-laws house she never saw the relation between the accused
person and the victim. She further deposed in her cross-examination that

she have not got any information about the incident from the victim.

P.W-4 (Atul Nath) deposed that he knows the accused and the
victim is his niece 4/5 months ago the incident had taken place. He came
to know that his aforesaid niece recorded pregnancy. Further, he came to
know that the aforesaid pregnancy of the victim was caused by the

accused.

In his cross-examination he deposed that prior to the incident, the
victim, has not deposed anything about the relationship between victim

and the accused person.

P.W-5 Smti Maya Nath is the mother of the victim and she deposed
in her evidence that her husband has one Saloon. Therefore, he normally
remains busy in the same. She is also a daily wage earner and therefore,
her daughter /victim remains in the house alone. During aforesaid

period, she noticed that her aforesaid daughter fails in her monthly
PAGE NO: 6 SPECLAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 03 OF 2018.

15.

16.

cycle. Then she got her examined in the Burhinagar P.H.C. After
examination, doctor detected that she was suffering from iron deficiency
and anemia and accordingly, doctor prescribed the medicines. However,
after sometime, she developed symptoms of pregnancy. Therefore, she
took her daughter to Deomornoi hospital and got her examined therein,
wherein doctor after examination of her daughter opined that her
daughter was carrying pregnancy of 7 (seven) months. After returning to
their house from hospital and on being asked, her daughter told her that
the aforesaid pregnancy was caused by the accused. Thereafter, they
called the accused to their house but he did not come to their house and
thereafter, her husband lodged the ejahar. At the time of incident, her

age was about 16 years.

In her cross examination she deposed that she had not narrated
about the incident of pregnancy of her daughter to her neighbouring. In
her cross-examination she further deposed that after coming to know
about the name of the accused person who is responsible for causing
pregnancy to her daughter, she had informed the matter to VDP

secretary namely Makhan Saikia and Bhadreswar Deka.

P.W-6 (Premankur Hazarika), the investigating officer deposed that
on 8-10-2017, he was working as in-charge Patharighat out Post. On that
day having received the ejahar lodged by the informant, he made a G.D.
Entry No. 134 dated 8-10-2017 and forwarded the same to Sipajhar P.S.
for registration of a case and he himself took up the charge of
investigation. Finding the informant in the Police Station, he interrogated
him and went to the place of occurrence and had drawn up a sketch
map. Ext-3 is the Sketch Map and Ext-3(1) is his signature. He
interrogated the witnesses in the place of occurrence and recorded their
statements. On police requisition the victim was medically examined.
The statement of the victim got recorded by the learned Magistrate in
the Court under section 164 Cr.P.C. Thereafter, he collected the Medical

Report of the victim. The accused was arrested in this case and
PAGE NO: 7 SPECLAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 03 OF 2018.

17.

18.

forwarded to the court. In the meantime on completion of the
investigation, he submitted Charge-sheet against the accused under
section 376/420 of I.P.C. He exhibited the charge-sheet as Ext-4 and his
Signature as Ext-4(1).

In the instant case, the complainant who is the father of the victim
while lodging the ejahar before the police station mention the case of his
daughter as 16 years. While adducing his evidence he reiterated that the
age of his daughter at the time of occurrence was 16 years, although he
has not mention the date of birth of his daughter. His wife (PW-5) also
mention the age of the victim (daughter of PW-5) as 16 years. From the
evidence of the medical officer it reveals, due to the pregnancy of the
victim the radiological examination for determination of the age of the
victim could not be done. Hence there is no any medical examination for
determination of the age of the victim at the time of occurrence. The
investigating officer failed to seize any document to ascertain the age of
the victim at the time of occurrence, although he had collected one
Xerox copy of the birth certificate of the victim. Even if, judicial notice
upon the aforesaid Xerox copy of the birth certificate of the victim, is
taken, it reveals that the date of birth of the victim is mention in the
Birth Certificate as 19/05/1999. The ejahar was lodged by the father of
the victim on 8/10/2017, wherein there is nothing mention regarding
date of occurrence, although it is mention that incident had taken place
in the month of April, 2017. So there is no any clear evidence regarding
the exact age of the victim at the time of occurrence and even if we took
the judicial notice of the Xerox copy and presume that the incident
occurred in the month of April, 2017 then also victim is almost near the

age of 18 years.

In the instant case, the victim could not be examined as she
already expired during the trial. From the evidence of the complainant
(PW-2) who is the father of the victim it reveals that he only came to

know about the incident, while they had notice the symptom of
PAGE NO: & SPECLAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 03 OF 2018.

19.

pregnancy upon the victim and while the doctor confirm about the
pregnancy, then only victim had disclose the name of accused person
who had cause pregnancy to her. From the evidence of the medical
officer also it reveals at the time of filing the ejahar she was in seven
months of her pregnancy. That means the victim in spite of having
physical relationship with a person, has not narrated the incident to her
parents. There is no any evidence from the parents ie PW-1 & PW-5 that
their daughter had disclose that there was threat from the accused
person not to disclose the aforesaid fact of physical relationship to her
parents. So on the basis of the evidence of the parents of the victim, it
can be said that even after having physical relationship with the accused
person, the victim has not narrated anything to her parents, and in that
circumstances it can be said that she is a consenting party for the

physical relationship with the accused person.

The victim being the star witness, in a case under sexual assault
case, the evidence of the victim more informants in determining the guilt
of the accused person for the offence charge. But unfortunately, in the
instant case the court has not get that scope for examination of the
victim, as during trial period she had already expired. But from the
statement of the victim given before the Judicial Magistrate under
section 164 of CRPC, and the evidence of the parents of the victim, it
appears that she is a consenting party for the sexual intercourse that has
taken place along with the accused person, as when the symptom of
pregnancy appears on her body then only on compulsion she has divulge
the name of the accused person and _ in my opinion, — in that
circumstances on the basis of the aforesaid evidence the accused person
cannot be held guilty to the charges levelled against him by the
prosecution side under section 376 /420 of IPC read with section 6 of
Pocso act. As I already discuss, as the prosecution side failed to prove
the age of the victim, hence the provision of section 6 of Pocso act has

not attract in the instant case.
PAGE NO: 9 SPECLAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 03 OF 2018.

20. Considering all this aspect, in my considered opinion the
prosecution side failed to prove the charge against the accused person
under section 376 /420 of IPC read with section 6 of Pocso Act beyond
knowledgeable doubts. I therefore acquitted the accused persons from
the above mentioned charges and set him at liberty forthwith. Bail Bond
of the accused person shall be valid for the next six months from the

date of delivery of the instant judgment.
21. Judgment is delivered in open court.

22. Furnish a copy of the judgement to learned district magistrate

Darrang Mangaldai as required under section 365 of CRPC.

23. Given under my hand and seal of this court on this 18" day of

December 2019 at Darrang Mangaldai.

Sd. J.M.Barman
Additional Sessions Judge(FTC),
Darrang,Mangaldai.

Transcribed and typed by me:

Smti S.Devi ( Stenographer

(Contd....Appendix)
PAGE NO: 10 SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 03 OF 2018.
APPENDIX:

Prosecution witnesses:

PW: 1- Dr. Lipika Bora (M.O.).
PW:2 — Mukunda Ram Nath (Informant)
PW:3- Dipti Nath

PW:4- Atul Nath.

PW:5- Maya Nath.

PW:6- Premankur Hazarika (I.0.) .
Prosecution exhibits:

Ext:1- Medical Report.

Ext:2- Ejahar.

Ext:3-Sketch map.
Ext-4,Charge-sheet.

Defence witnesses : Nil.

Sd. J.M.Barman

Additional Sessions Judge (FTC),
Darrang, Mangaldai.
