IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, BAJALI,
PATHSALA

Spl. POCSO Case No. 14 of 2019
U/S - 366 IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act. 2012.

State
- Versus -

Nayan Das
: Accused person.

Present :
Sri L.K. Saikia, AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, Bajali, Pathsala.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Smti. Dhira Devi Ld. Addl. P. P.
For the accused persons : Smti. Tribeni Kalita, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidences: 04-12-2019.

Date of recording statements u/s 313 Cr.PC. : 20-11-2019.

Date of Argument : 04-12-2019
Date of Judgment : 04-12-2019.

J UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that, one Kamal Das
lodged an ejahar on 27-05-2018 with the O/C Patacharkuchi Police
Station alleging, inter-alia, that on 26-05-2018 his sister X(victim) was
missing and on 27-05-2019 at around 8 a.m. at Pathsala Highway
chowck he found his sister and on being asked where she was on last
night. Then she told him that she was stayed with one Junmoni Das at
her rented house near Patacharkuchi C.R.P.F. camp. On that day at
about 8 p.m. one unknown person came to her house and forcefully
committed rape upon her. Hence, this case.

Page No. 1 of 8
2. On receipt of the ejahar, it was _ registered as
Patacharkuchi P. S. Case No. 342/18 u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

a. During investigation police visited the place of occurrence
and prepared sketch map, recorded the statements of witnesses
including the victim girl, conducted medical examination of the victim,
produced her before the Court wherein the Ld. Magistrate recorded her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C, and after completion of investigation,
having been found prima-facie case, the 1|/O filed charge sheet
u/s 342/366/376 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the
accused Nayan Das. Thereafter, the accused was arrested and
forwarded to the Court.

4. On being summoned the accused person entered his
appearance and copies were furnished to him and after hearing the
learned Addl. P. P. appearing for the State and the learned defence
counsel and after perusal of materials available on record
u/s 173 Cr.P.C., having been found sufficient grounds for presuming
that the accused person has committed the offence, framed the formal
charge u/s 366 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012. The charge so
framed was read over and explained to the accused person, to which
he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried and hence this judgment.

5. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined 2
(two) number of materials witnesses i.e. the informant and the victim
and after recording their evidences the Ld. Addl. PP submits that the
vital material witnesses have already been examined and there is no
chance of further development of this case and hence, prays to close
the evidence.

6. Heard the Ld. Addl. PP appearing for the state. Perused
the case record and considering the submission put forwarded by the
Ld. Addl. PP the evidence of prosecution side is closed.

7. The defence plea is of total denial. The accused person
was examined u/s 313 of Cr P C. wherein he denied all such
allegations leveled against him by the prosecution witnesses. The
defence side has not adduced any defence evidence.

Page No. 2 of 8
8. Heard argument of learned Addl. P. P. and the learned
defence counsel.

9. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person on 26-05-2018 kidnapped the
victim i.e. sister of informant Sri Kamal Das and took her to
Guwahati with intent that she may be compelled (or knowing it
to be likely that she will be compelled) to marry against her own
will(or in order that the said woman will be forced or seduced to
Illicit intercourse) and thereby committed an offence punishable
u/s 366 IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same, date, time and place
at night by inducing had committed penetrative sexual
intercourse with the victim and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act. 2012 IPC ?

EVIDENCE OF THE WITNESSES

10. PW-1 Kamal Das deposed that victim is his sister. He does
not know the accused person, who is present in the Court today. At the
time of happening of the incident the age of his sister was about 17 years
and 4 months and she was reading in H.S. 2" year. In the FIR he
mentioned the name of the accused person as Junmani Das. On
27/05/2018 at about 7.30 to 8 a.m. he came to Pathsala town and then
met his sister at Pathsala National High Way chowk. While he asked his
sister where she stayed in the last night then she replied that she stayed
in the house of Junmani Das at Patacharkuchi. He has known that his sister
has a love affairs with one Nayan Das before 4 to 5 months from the date
of happening of the incident and his house is situated at Ahopa. He has
filed the FIR against Junmani Das on suspect that she had kept his sister
along with her. Exhibit No. 1 is the FIR. Police had seized the H.S.L.C. admit
card of his sister as handed over by him and it was given jimma to him.
Ext. 2 is the seizure list. He does not know why police had sent Nayan Das
to the Court.

Page No. 3 of 8
In cross-examination, PW-1 deposed that he lodged the FIR
as stated by his sister. He has not mentioned the name of Nayan Das in
the FIR. While police asked him about the incident he stated about
Junmani Das only but not against anything about Nayan Das. He does not
know about Nayan Das but heard from his sister that she has love affairs
with Nayan Das. He does not know how Nayan Das involved into this case
even do not know how Junmani Das was also involved into this case.

iL. PW-2 X(victim) deposed that informant is her brother. She
knows the accused Nayan Das, whose house is situated at Ahopa. She
knows him since they have love affairs for last 6 months. At the time of
happening of the incident her family members did not know that she had
love affairs with Nayan Das. She has forgotten the month of happening of
the incident. One day she came to Pathsala at about 8.30 a.m. by tempoo
without intimating to anyone of her house and at Pathsala main chariali
chowk she met Nayan Das there and he took her to the house of Junmani
Das at Patacharkuchi. She does not know whether Nayan Das had any
relation with Junmani Das. Junmani was resided in a rented house at
Patacharkuchi. At the rented house of Junmani, she stayed there for one
night. She does not know what Junmani Das was doing but her husband
was an employee. On the next day she returned back to Pathsala by bus
from Patacharkuchi and on reaching at Pathsala she met her own brother
Mrinmay Das and cousin brother Arup Das. They asked her where she
stayed on the last night but due to fear she did not tell them anything.
Thereafter they took her to the Patacharkuchi police station and she met
her another brother Kamal Das there. Her brother Kamal Das lodged the
FIR at Patacharkuchi P.S. on that day. After filling the FIR police asked her
about the incident. At the time of happening of the incident her age was
about 17 years and she was reading in H.S. 2"? year at Pub Hastinapur
college. On the next day police took her to FAAMC, Barpeta for medical
examination but she refused to do medical examination as nothing had
happened with her. Thereafter police produced her before the Court
wherein the learned Magistrate had recorded her statement and after that
she was given jimma to her family members. Exhibit No. 3 is her
statement.

In cross-examination, PW-2 stated that on the day of the

Page No. 4 of 8
incident she was at Patacharkuchi and during the stay at Patacharkuchi
nobody misbehaved her. Nayan Das is in no way involved into this case.
She does not know in what circumstances and why her brother lodged the
FIR even she does not know what was written in the FIR. Nothing had
happened as stated before the Magistrate while police produced her in
the Court after filling the FIR by her brother. Due to fear of her brother
she stated something before the Magistrate. Nayan Das did not
misbehave her in any way. She willingly went to Patacharkuchi with
Nayan Das to the house of Junmani Das even stayed for that night
nobody misbehaved her. Still she is continuing her study and now a
student of B.A. 1* Semester. On suspect her brother lodged the FIR as she
came out from home without intimating to anyone. She has no any

grievances against Nayan Das because of that he is innocent.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS, AND REASONS THEREOF

 

12. Perused the case record and also gone through the

provision of law.

23. PW-1 the informant stated that he lodged the FIR as stated
by his sister. He has not mentioned the name of Nayan Das in the FIR.
While police asked him about the incident he stated about Junmani Das
only but not against anything about Nayan Das. He does not know how
Nayan Das involved into this case.

14. PW-2 the victim stated that on the day of the incident she
was at Patacharkuchi and during the stay at Patacharkuchi nobody
misbehaved her. Nayan Das is in no way involved into this case. She does
not know in what circumstances and why her brother lodged the FIR even
she do not know what was written in the FIR. Nothing had happened as
stated before the Magistrate while police produced her in the Court after
filling the FIR by her brother. She willingly went to Patacharkuchi with
Nayan Das to the house of Junmani Das even stayed for that night nobody
misbehaved her. On suspect her brother lodged the FIR as she came out
from home without intimating to anyone. She has no any grievances

against Nayan Das because of that he is innocent.

Page No. 5 of 8
15. On precise analysis and scrutiny of evidence on record, it
is found that the instant case has been arisen out of suspicion of the
fact. On the day of incident the victim met with the accused voluntarily
as she loves the accused since long prior to this incident. The FIR was
lodged by the informant as stated by his sister but his sister i.e PW-2
stated that she do not know why and in what circumstances her
brother had lodged the eahar. It is also stated by her that the accused
person no way involved into the alleged occurrence. From the evidence
of PW-1 it comes to light that he do not know anything about the
incident. Exthibit No.1 FIR reveals an another story which is not
identical with the evidence of the informant i.e. PW-1. Moreover the
FIR do not reflect the name of the present accused person even PW2
victim had also stated that the accused person was in no way
connected with this case. FIR alone cannot prove as unless forwarded
by supporting evidence but in the instant case even the fact and
incident narrated in the FIR is also different with the evidence of PW-1
and PW-2.

16. Court cannot go beyond the evidence, Court is to confine
only under evidence on record. The evidence available on record do
not shows any impetus that the accused person was ever committed
the offence charged.

17. In view of above, it can be safely concluded that the
prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused person as
required under the law.

18. Accordingly, the accused Nayan Das is acquitted of the
offences charged u/s 366 R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act. 2012 and set him
at liberty forthwith.

19. The bail bond and affidavit of the accused person will
remain in course for an another period of another 6 (six) months
u/s 437 (A) Cr.P.C.

20. A copy of this judgment be sent to the District Magistrate,
Barpeta u/s 365 Cr.P.C. for information.

Page No. 6 of 8
21. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court in
presence of both the parties and | put my hand and seal of this Court
on this 04th day of December, 2019.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
Dictated & Corrected
by me

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Page No. 7 of 8
APPENDIX :-

Oral evidences :-
PW-1 Kamal Das
PW-2 X(victim])

Documentary evidence :-

Ext. 1 - FIR
Ext. 2- Seizure List.

Ext. 3- Statement of the victim.

Defence evidence.
NIL

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Page No. 8 of 8
