IN THE COURT OF DISTRICT & SESSIONS JUDGE: CACHAR; SILCHAR
SPL. POCSO CASE NO .13of 2014
Corresponding Sessions Case No. 103/14
(U/S 366/376 IPC.)
Present:-Shri K. Choudhury, LL.M..,

Special Judge,
Cachar,Silchar.
State of
Te NSSSS- 000 Complainant.
-Versus-
ImamUddin
S/O Sunahar Ali Laskar,
Merab Ali Lane,
Madhurbond, Silchar........... 00. ccc cece cece cece ee eee eeeceeeeeeaecs Accused
person.
Charge framed OM:-....... 0.0... ccc ccce cence cece cece eee eeeeneaeeees 14.12.2015.
P.Ws. examinedon: - ..........ccccceeeeeeeeeeeeee 2.16, 26.4.16, 22.6.16, 16.7.16.
Statement of accused recorded under section 313 CrPC_ :-
beveeeeeeeeeues 25.7.2016.
D.WS examined ON:- oo... ceeeeecccceeeeecceceeeecsceeeesceceeseeseess 18.02.17
Argument heard On: -........... 0c cece cece eee eeee ee cote eenneaeeeeenees 08.03.17.
Judgment pronounced and delivered on: ............eee cece eee eee 15.3.17.
Learned Counsel Appeared
For the State: -..... 00. ccc eee eee cence cence eaees Mr.S.Dutta, Ld. PP.
For the Accused: -............ cece cece cee e cee eceees Mr.Ashok Roy, Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. Prosecution case as it evolves from the record is thaton21-03-

12 at about 10.00 a.m. the minor daughter of the complainant aged about
16 years, here in below referred as victim, went out from their house but
for non-returnof her in the afternoon search was being made. During the
search it could be learnt that the accused kidnapped the victim.
Accordingly FIR was lodged on 24-03-13with a prayer for recovery of the
victim. The same was registered as Silchar P.S. case No. 575/13 U/S 366-A
IPC. During investigation the victim was recovered. She was medically
examined and she also gave statement U/S 164Cr.P.C. stating that on the
date of occurrence at about 3.00 p.m. while she was walking on the road
the accused forcibly gagging her mouth got her into an auto rickshaw and
told her that she would be taken to the house of his maternal uncle.
Accordingly she was taken. Thereat she was kept for three days. The
allegedly confined her fastening in a room. The accused also removing her
clothes had physical relation with her against her will. On 24" March/2013
she was recovered by police. The doctor opined her age as above twenty.
On completion of the investigation the I.O. submitted charge sheet against

the accused U/S 366 IPC.

2. Learned S.D.J.M.(S) Silchar after procuring the attendance of
the accused furnished copies of all relevant documents and committed the
offence fixing 08-09-14 for appearance of the accused before the Sessions
Court. On the date so fixed accused remained absent without any step and
warrant was issued. However, subsequently on many _ occasionshe
remained absent with steps. Subsequently on 24-08-15 he appeared. He
again started to make default in his appearance. Thereafter vide order dated
10-12-15 warrant was issued. On 14-12-15 the accused appeared. It is to be
mentioned here that predecessor in office vide order dated 08-09-14 asked

to register the case as POCSO case. Accordingly the case was registered as
-3-

Special POCSO Act. This Court after hearing both sides, andperusing of
the material on record framed formal charges against the accused U/S
366/376 IPC. The charges were read over and explained to which the

accused pleaded not guilty. Hence trial began.

3. To prove the case prosecution examined as many asfive
witnesses including the M.O. andthe I.0.Defence pleasas taken by way of
putting suggestion in the evidence of P.W. 1, the mother of the victim, is
that she deposed falsely. In the cross-examination of P.W2, the father of the
victim, defence put suggestion to the effect that the victim had love affairs
with the accused and she eloped away voluntarily with the accused and
under the pressure of members of Bajrang Dal she had to give statement
before the Magistrate against the accused. In cross-examination of P.W.3
1.e. the victim the defence took the plea that the victim at the material time
was twenty years of age or above, and she had love affairs with the
accused, but her parents in collusion with her and other organization filed
this case with false allegation on the ground that the accused belonged to
other community, which she categorically denied. The defence also took
the plea by way of putting suggestion that the victim was not taken by the
accused and was not kept confined in any house by the accused and the
accused did not commit sexual inter course with her which she also
categorically denied. The accused during his examination U/S 313 of
Cr.P.C. stated that the victim was recovered by police from in front of his
house. He however denied that he took her and had sexual inter course
with her. The accused also denied that he was found absconding and stated
that on the strength of pending W/A he was arrested for about seven

months after the alleged incident in connection with G.R. case bearing No.
2085/09 U/S 498-A IPC. He in hisdefence examinedhimself as D.W.1 and
his mother D.W.2.

4. Now, point for decision is as to whether,under the facts and
circumstances of the case, the accused committed any offence of
kidnapping/abduction and rape as charged U/S 366/376 IPC.

5. To decide the above I have heard learned counsel of both sides at
length and perused the entire evidence on record. Findings, decision and
reasons thereof are given below:

6. P.W.1 Shefali Rani Das, the mother of the victim a Gr-IV
employee of BSNL deposed that on one day in the year 2013 while she
returned from BSNL office at about 3-30 p.m. found the victim was not in
the house. On search it could be learnt that one boy of Mahutpara, Silchar
took away the victim from the road. At that time her husband was at Lala
under Hailakandi district. About three days after that she lodged the FIR,
the Ext-1. After that police recovered the victim from the house of the
accused at Mahutpara situated near Fatokbazar. On query the victim told
that the accused gagging her mouth forcibly took her. At the material time
the victim appeared HSLC but after the incident although she passed
HSLC but out of fear of the accused discontinued her study.

Te P.W. 2 — the father of the victim deposed that on 21-03-13 he was
at Dholai in the house of her paternal aunt. On the following morning he
received telephonic call to the effect that the victim was missing. He
returned home and found the victim in the Silchar P.S. On query the victim
told that on the date of occurrence at about 3.00 p.m. while she was
proceeding towards her friend’s house the accused forcibly took her by an

auto.
-5-

8. PW. 3 — _ The victim deposed that in the year 2012 she
appeared HSLC examination but could not come out successfully. In the
month of March,2013 at one afternoon at about 3.00 p.m. while she was
proceeding towards her friend’s house on the way the accused got down
from an auto and pulled her and took her by the auto in one house, might
be of his maternal uncle. He confined her in a room, made her naked
forcibly and had sexual intercourse with her against her will. He kept her
for three days and all the three days he committed sexual inter course
against her will. After that she was recovered by police at the instance of
her mother. On the date of the alleged incident her father was in the house
of his paternal aunt. After four days her father met her. During
investigation she was produced before the doctor for medical examination.
She gave statement before the Magistrate. Ext-2 is her statement.
According to her she did not give any statement to the doctor. She
discontinued her study just after admission in the H.S. Ist year. She further
deposed that she knew the accused as an auto driver since her schooling
but she had no talking terms with him.

9. PW. 4,Dr. Priyanka Singha deposed that on 25-03-13 she
examined the victim. She recorded the history as disclosed by the victim.
According to the history as recorded, the victim had love affairs with the
accused since previous two months. The accused was a married person
having two daughters. On 21-03-13 the victim asked the accused to take
her away. So the accused came with an auto and took her to his relative’s
house at Rongpur, Silchar and stayed there for three days. On 23-03-13 the
accused took her to his house. She had sexual intercourse with the accused
on many times and both of them wanted to be get married. On 24-03-13

she was brought by police. She had taken bath and changed her cloth
-G-

before coming for examination. The doctor further deposed that were two
Hymnalold tears found present at 4’0 clock and 6’0 clock position. Result
of X-ray showed the epiphysis of wrist joint, elbow joint and shoulder joint
as appeared and fused with parent bone. On the basis of physical including
dental examination Laboratory and radiological examination the doctor
opined that the age of the victim as about 20 years.

10. PW. 5—_ I.O. of the case deposed that on 24-03-13 while he was
posted at Ranghikari TOP under Silchar P.S. the FIR (Ext-1) was lodged
which was registered as Silchar P.S. case No. 575/13 U/S 366(A) IPC. He
was entrusted to investigate the case.On 24-03-13 he visited Merab-Ali
lane at Mahutpara, Silchar and recovered the victim from the house of
Enamuddin 1.e the accused. Seeing them the accused fled away. He further
deposed that he recorded the statement of the victim and sent her for
medical examination and also produced her before Magistrate. The accused
was found absconding for many days. Ultimately the accused was arrested
in connection with other G.R. case bearing no. 2085/09. The accused was
also arrested in connection with the present case on 10-06-13. Ext-5 is the
sketch map of the P.O. drawn by the I.O. Ext-6 is the charge sheet
submitted by him.

11. D.W.1- is the accused of this case deposed that the victim used to
be a passenger of his auto. About three years back one day she suddenly
came to his house. He was not in the house. At that time his wife over
telephone informed him that one girl came to their house and started
quarrelling with his wife asking to meet him and to stay in the house. At
that time his mother and sister Moni Begum and also his father were
present. At about 3.00 p.m. police came and took away the victim. On his

return from work at about 7.00 p.m. he came to know about the above from
the inmates of the house.

12. D.W. 2— the mother of the accused deposed that she cannot say
the age of the accused who left study about ten years backwhile a student
of class-V. Thereafter he started to work. About three years back the
alleged incident took place. At that time accused was anauto driver who
since 5/6 days prior to the alleged incident started to work as such. Before
that he used to sell vegetables. On the date of alleged incident suddenly the
alleged victim of this case came to their house and called the accused. She
further deposed that on her query the victim told that the victim came to
talk with her son. She then told the victim that her son went out for work,
and asked the victim to return back. The victim then started to insist upon
them to stay in the house. She further deposed that they told the victim that
they belonged to Muslim community. The victim then wanted to stay in
their house to start conjugal life. Thereafter wife of the accused came out
and picked up quarrel with the victim. After that father of the victim came
with police and took the victim. Thereafter police did not come to their
house.

13. During hearing learned P.P. has strongly submitted that the
defence pleas are shaky in nature. In the cross-examination the defence
took the plea that the victim voluntarily went away with the accused. But
there is no cross-examination or suggestion about the recovery of the
victim from the house of the accused. However, the accused admitted
about the recovery of the victim from his house. The learned P.P. also
submitted that there is no reason to disbelieve the evidence of I.O. who
deposed about the absconding nature of the accused and thus this conduct
under the facts and circumstances of the case is most relevant U/S 8 of the

Evidence Act. Further contention is that the evidence of D.Ws cannot be
-8-

relied upon being inconsistent and do not inspire confidence in as much as
their evidence are self-contradictory in nature. On the contrary learned
defence counsel strongly contended that medical report reflects about love
affairs and consent of the victim to go with the accused and age of the
victim is opined asabout 20. Further contention is that the evidence of I.O.
cannot be relied upon mainly with regard to the evidence of absconding on
the ground that there was no search memo. It is also contended that the
driver of the auto was not examined and no attempt was made to collect the
age related certificate of the victim. According to learned defence counsel
on the pressure of Bajrang Dal or other like organization a concocted case
was filed against the accused. The learned defence counsel also submitted
that the investigation was not done properly.
14. It is evident that at the material time the accused was a married
person having two daughters. Their present age is 11 and 7 respectively.
The accused although disclosed his present age as 23 on the date of his
evidence. But he disclosed his age as 28 at the time of giving his statement
U/S 313 of Cr.P.C. He stated that as per his disclosed age being 23 he got
married at the age of ten years and he procured driving license about seven
years back. According to learned P.P. the accused falsely deposed and the
same can be adversely inferred against him under the facts and
circumstances of the case.

In the cross-examination he stated that he received information at
7.00 p.m. and returned home at about 7-30 p.m. and he did not receive any
information over telephone but received information about the coming of
the victim from his neighbour Babul Hussain Laskar. This piece of
evidence is totally self-contradictory in as much as he in his examination-

in-chief stated that he received telephonic information from his wife about
-9-

the coming of the victim.In the cross-examination he admitted that he was
arrested on the strength of W/A and his wife lodged a case against him.
That being so it is very difficult to rely upon that his wife would be
available in her matrimonial house when there was a pending W/A in
connection with a case lodged by his wife with allegation of torture etc.
The evidence of pending W/A is however corroborates the evidence of I.O.
That being so it can completely be relied upon that the accused was
evading police arrest at least out of fear of the pending W/A issued in
connection with other case lodged by his wife. The clinching evidence that
come out in the cross-examination of the I.O. that he visited the house of
the accused in search of the accused thus can be relied upon. P.W.1,2& 3
being the complainant father, and the victim are found to be corroborative
with regard to taking of the victim by the accused. Some omissions have
been brought and proved in the evidence of I.O. to the effect that P.W.2 did
not categorically state before the I.O. that on21-03-13 he was at Dholai in
the house of his paternal aunt and on the following day he received
telephonic call to the effect that the victim daughter was missing and on
23-3-13 he returned to his house and on query the victim told that at about
3.00 p.m. the accused took her forcibly by an auto. The I.O. however,
deposed that there was mention that the victim was forcibly taken away by
the accused. Therefore the above omission as confirmed by the defence,
under the facts and circumstances of the case, cannot be treated as
material omission. The omission as confirmed with regard to the evidence
of P.W.3 that she stated before the I.O. that she was taken to the house of
maternal uncle of the accused, under the facts and circumstances of the
case, is also considered as not material omission in as much as admittedly

she (victim) was recovered from the house of the accused, and also for
-10-

reason that the victim deposed that she was perhaps was taken to the house
of maternal uncle The omission about forcible making of naked is also
seems to be immaterial especially when the accused has taken the plea of
total denial of sexual intercourse. Although the victim denied about giving
her statement before the doctor but even if it is relied upon, it cannot help
the defence in any away in as much as the defence totally denied the
alleged taking away of the victim by the accused and also the evidence of
sexual inter course. The defence as eluded earlier sometimes took the plea
that the victim having love affairs voluntarily eloped away with the
accused but nothing is uttered by the accused in his entire evidence to this
very effect. The evidence of the D.W.2 is contradicted by the accused
(D.W.1), as according to the accused the police came to their house at
about 3.00 p.m. whereas according to the D.W.2 police came there at about
11.00 a.m. Evidence of D.W.2 inspires no confidence for relying upon as it
also appears that the D.W.2 intentionally tried to conceal the age of the
accused deposing that she does not know the age of the accused. It cannot
be relied upon that she being the mother does not know the age of her son,
the accused, while she knows the age of the daughters of the accused.

15. The suggestion that the victim having love affairs eloped away
with the accused rather confirmed that the victim was with the accused for
the days of her missing. The conflicting suggestions as put in the cross-
examination of the victim that the victim was not taken by the accused and
was not kept confined in any house and the accused did not commit sexual
intercourse with her has got no force in the absence of any explanation
about the dealings of the accused with the victim during that period of
missing. The evidence of the D.Ws that on the very day of recovery the

victim went to the house of the accused appears to be totally false for the
-11-

reasons discussed earlier. The defence in the cross-examination of all the
material witnesses tried to establish that at the material time the victim was
aged above twenty. According to the victim and her parents i.e. P.W.1 and
P.W.2.Victim was below 18 years of age. Evidence reveals that the victim
at the material time just got admission in the H.S. Ist year and once she
failed in the H.S.L.C. examination. In the normal course one appears in
H.S.L.C. final examination at the age of fifteen plus. According to their
evidence the victim has twin brother who at the time of giving evidence
was studying in H.S. 2™ year. In the cross-examination of P.W.2 it is stated
that he got married in the year 1992 in the month of September and around
after twelve fourteen months of his marriage the victim was born. This
goes to show that the age of the victim might be nineteen plus at the
material time. The doctor P.W.4 also opined almost accordingly. Now
question comes whether the victim voluntarily went away with the accused.
She categorically denied the same. There is no contradiction in this regard
except the medical evidence where the doctor wrote history. The victim
denied that she gave any statement to the doctor in this regard. That being
so the history as recorded by the doctor in the absence of any slightest
corroborative evidence hasgot very little force especially for the reason that
the defence totally denied the allegation of inter course as reflected in the
history column of the Medical Report. That apart, the defence case is also
not that the victim remained with the accused for 3/4 days and the accused
had sexual intercourse with consent of the victim. The fact of recovery
corroborated by unshaken and reliable evidence clearly establishes that the
victim remained with the accused for 3/4 days. Under such circumstance
natural presumption would be that the accused abducted the victim with

intention of having sexual intercourse with her.According to the victim the
-12-

accused forcibly raped her against her will. Mere denial that the accused
did not commit any sexual intercourse or did not abduct or kidnap her is
not enough to demolish the evidence. The conduct of the accused and
nature of evidence as reveals and discussed earlier clearly establishes that
he with an intention to commit rape took the victim and subsequently
makes a futile attempt to establish that the victim on the date of very
recovery went to his house to reside with him. It is not believable that any
female of adolescence would venture to implicate any person at the cost of
slur upon her character, future and reputation of her family etc.It is evident
that the No contradiction or any material omission could be proved in their
cross-examination. Therefore mere stating their evidence as false is not
enough to impeach their credibility. The defence plea being found
conflicting and varying in nature in different stages as eluded earlier rather
fortifies the prosecution case lending sufficient assurances to the each and
every fact needed to be proved.It is not believable that any female of
adolescence would venture to implicate any person at the cost of slur upon
her character, future and reputation of her family etc. The corroborative
evidence is thus relied upon.

16. From the above discussion, contentions and consideration of
evidence in its entirety it is found to be established by reliable evidence
that the victim was taken away by the accused and the victim had to stay
with the accused for 3/ 4 days. The accused has not candidly admitted that
the victim voluntarily went with him; rather he took different plea at
different times and adduced evidence concealing the real facts which he
could have disclosed. Further the evidence of fleeing away seeing the
police also reflect his state of mind of guilty. The conduct of the accused

thus as discussed earlier clearly shows that the accused with intention to
-13-

commit sexual inter course abducted the victim by some deceitful means
and had sexual inter course against her will during the said period on many
times.

17. In view of the above discussions and consideration of entire
evidence on record it is held that prosecution has been able to prove its
case beyond all reasonable doubtU/S 366/376 IPC Accused is thus held to
be guilty of the offences. He is thus convicted accordingly. Heard the
accused on the question of sentence

18 Heard the accused on the question of sentence. His statements
are recorded in separate sheets tagged with the case record. He has
submitted for leniency on the ground that he is having aged parents, two
minor daughters and there is none in the family to look after them.

19. Having consideration of the above and due regard to all other
aspects, especially the fact that the accused even having wife and children
at the material time committed such nature of offence affecting the dignity
and chastity of a teenager girl, I do not find it a fit case to show much
leniency and therefore convict and sentence the accusedU/S 366 IPC to
undergo Rigorous Imprisonment (R.I.) for a period of three years, and also
a fine of Rs. 2000/- and in default shall further undergo for a period of one
month. He is further convicted and sentenced U/S 376 IPC to undergo R/I
for a period of 10 (Ten) years and also shall pay fine of Rs. 5,000/- and in
default he shall further under R/I for a period of two months. Both the
sentences shall run concurrently. Period of custody shall be set off from the
sentence.

20. As regards victim’s compensationit is evident during trial of this
case the victim vide petition no. 66/7 dated 11.4.16 prayed for

compensation for an amount of Rs. 2,00,000/- stating inter-alia that for the
-14-

act of the accused she had to suspend her studies out of fear and
shamefulness and as a result of which she felt that her life had been
jeopardized . The petition was not disposed of. It is evident that at the
material time the victim had to discontinue her studies just after admission
in HS 1“ Year. Having consideration of all the aspects of this case and the
fact that as a result of the act, victim had to suffer both mentally and
physically and will have to lead of life with slur and her future ambition
also got affected, no reason is found to deny the compensation as prayed
for. Therefore, it is strongly recommended that an amount of Rs.
2,00,000/- is required to be paid as compensation to the victim by DLSA,
Cachar, Silchar. Secretary DLSA will take appropriate step for payment of
the compensation. Copy of the Judgment along with the deposition of
P.W.1,2,3 be forwarded to Secretary DLSA. Copy of the Judgment also be
forwarded to the Secretary, Govt. of Assam, Political Department, for
taking necessary step for payment of compensation.

Pall Free copy of the Judgment be furnished to the accused as per as
per the Provision of Section 363 of Cr.P.C. and a copy also be forwarded to
the District Magistrate as per section 365 of Cr.P.C. Copy of the Judgment
shall also be forwarded to the S.P., Cachar, Silchar.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court under

my signature and seal of this court on this 15"" day of March, 2017.

Dictated & Corrected by me

(Shri K. Choudhury), (Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge. Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
-15-

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR

SPL POCSO Case No. 13 of 2014.

Corresponding Session Case No. 103/14
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

P.W. 1—SmtiShefali Rani Das.
P.W. 2— Sri Sushan Chandra Das.
P.W. 3 — SmtiSushmita Das.

P.W. 4 — Dr. Priyanka Sinha.
P.W. 5— Sri Utpal Chandra Roy.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: -

D.W. 1 — Imam Uddin Laskar (accused).
D.W. 2 —  Soribun Nessa.

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.l — FEILR.

Ext.1(1)— Signature of P.W.1

Ext. 1(2) —Signature of the then O/C SilcharPS..
Ext. 2 — Statement of PW 3.

Ext-2(1) & 2(2) — Signatures of PW 3.
Ext.3—Police requisition

Ext. 3(1) — Signaturesof P.W.4

Ext. 4 — Medical Report.

Ext.4(1) &(2)-Signature of PW.4,

Ext-4(3) | — Signature of Dr. Y. N. Singha.

Ext.5 — Sketch map. (Under objection)

Ext-5(1) — Signature of P.W.7.

Ext. 6 — Charge sheet

Ext. 6 (1) —Signature of PW 5

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL
-16-

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - NIL.

(Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Transcribed by D. Paul,

Stenographer -III
