BONGAIGAON

 

Special (P) Case No. 1 (M)/2017.
U/S 6 of POCSO Act.

(Arising out of GR Case No. 52 of 2013)

State of Assam
Vs.
Md Ajjijul Alli....... Accused.

PRESENT :- Smti. I. Barman,
Special Judge (under POCSO Act),
Bongaigaon.

Appearance :-.

For the State : Smti R. Choudhury, Special Public
Prosecutor.

For the accused _ : Sri K.Chakraborty, Advocate.

Date of Argument: 17.11.2018, 1.12.2018.

Y. & Date of Judgment : 04.12.2018.

md

\W: a

pects! sods, i. Prosecution case in brief is that on 4.2.2013 at around
Bongai208-

12.30 P.M while the informant's 9 4% years daughter 'X' proceeded to take
bath at Pakalaga river, accused Ajijul Ali by enticing, committed her

rape which was witnessed by one Minara Begum.

2. On receipt of the FIR from the informant (PW 2)
Contd....
(2)
on 11.2.2013, the O/C, Manikpur Police Station, registered a case being
Manikpur Police Station Case No. 27/2013 U/S 376(f) IPC and

 

entrusted S.I. Sailen Kr Kalita to investigate the case. Accordingly, the
Investigating Officer visited the place of occurrence, recorded the
statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got
recorded the statement of the victim and the eye witness (PW 4) U/S 164
Cr.P.C, arrested the accused and on completion of investigation laid
charge-sheet against the accused Ajijul Ali U/S 376(f) IPC.

3. On appearance of the accused and on perusing police
report and hearing both sides, though charge U/S 4 of POCSO Act was
framed against the accused but later on charge was altered to section 6 of
POCSO Act for committing the offence U/S 5(m) of the Act being the
victim below the age of 12 years. The accused pleaded innocence when

charge was read over and explained to him and claimed for trial.

4. Point for determination:-
Whether on 04.02.2013 at around 12.30 P.M at village
Abadi under Manikpur Police station, accused Ajijul
Ali committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on
the victim 'X' below the age of 12 years and thereby
G committed an offence U/S 5(m) of POCSO Act

A punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act?
1 JUGEs
apne"
A0R-
pong? oe In this case, to bring home the charge against the

accused, prosecution has examined as many as 13 witnesses. Statement
of the accused was recorded U/S 313 Cr.P.C in which, he denied all the

allegations leveled against him. Defence examined none.

Contd...
 

(3)
6. I have heard argument advanced by the learned
counsel of both sides.
Discussion, decision and reasons thereof:-
1 Mrs R. Choudhury, the learned Special Public
Prosecutor appearing for the State has submitted that it is a case of
penetrative sexual assault on minor girl under the age of 12 years and

solitary evidence of the victim is sufficient to convict the accused.

8. Refuting the argument advanced by the learned
Special Public Prosecutor, Mr Chakraborty appearing for the accused has

 

submitted that with discrepancies on material facts in the testimony of
the witnesses, the case U/S 6 of POCSO Act has not been proved against

the accused and he is entitled to benefit of doubt.

9. In this case, PW 2 and PW 9, the parents of the
victim, stated that they did not remember the date of the birth of their
daughter. PW 5 the victim in her deposition recorded in August, 2007,
mentioned her age as 13 years. The alleged incident occurred in the year
2013 and on that count, she was 9 / 10 years old at that time. Admittedly,
the victim got married in the year 2016 i.e at the stage of 11 / 12 years.

Regarding age, the Investigating Officer seized a school certificate of the

Ps victim which reflects that her date of birth is 4.4.2002 and as such on the
\

an odees day of incident i.e on 4.2.2013, she was 11 years 10 months old.
o ec "
“Fe ongaig2o2 Prosecution has not examined the issuing authority of the school

certificate (M. Ext 1). The Medical Officer also could not ascertain the
age of the victim for non-availability of X-ray report. Though defence

during cross of PWs took the plea that she was above 18 years at the time
 

(4)
of incident but except giving suggestion, no evidence either oral or
documentary is produced in that respect. In the above, though it can not
be ascertained as to whether she was below 12 years or not but the
evidence of PWs show that she was certainly below the age of 18 years

and was a Child as defined in section 2(d) of the Act.

10. Now the question is whether the accused Ajijul Ali
committed any offence on the victim child. In this respect, let me travel

through the evidence adduced by the prosecution side.

11. PW 1 Popi Begam knew nothing about the incident.
PW 2, the father of the victim deposed that on the day of incident at
around 12.30 P.M while his daughter went to the nearby river, to take
bath, then accused Ajijul coming by bicycle from somewhere stopped
there and taking the victim to the nearby jungle, took off her pant and
raped her. The wife of Aituddin witnessing the same, reported at his
house about the incident and later on, while his (PW 2) daughter returned
home, his wife enquired her about the incident to which she replied in
affirmative. But due to poor financial condition immediately he could not
file the FIR. Later on, wife of Aituddin informed the matter at Manikpur
Mahila Samittee and then through the said Mahila Samittee, he lodged
the FIR. During cross-examination he stated that he did not enquire his
daughter about the incident. He stated that there is a road by the side of
the river which was hardly used by the villagers as there is another road.
According to him, the river is visible from his house but not at audible
distance. He admitted that there are 2 / 3 cases in between the accused
and wife of Aituddin i.e PW 4.. He also stated that he did not know if
Contd....
 

(S)
out of grudge, the wife of Aituddin conspired with his wife, filed this

case falsely.

12. PW 3 Aituddin Ali deposed that on the day of
incident in the evening while he returned home, his wife informed him
that while she went to see their vegetable garden, she had seen the
accused Ajijul Ali committing rape on the victim by gagging her mouth
beside the river and then on scolding him by his (PW 3) wife, the
accused holding her leg, asked to forgive him. Thereafter, his wife
reported the incident at the house of the victim and before the Mahila
Samittee. During cross-examination he stated that he did not see the
incident. He denied the suggestion that since prior to the incident, a case
is pending between his wife and the family members of the accused. He
stated that the river is at a lonely place and a few villagers used the same

for bathing.

13. PW 4 the wife of PW 4 claiming as eye witness
disposed that on 4.2.2013 at about 12.30 P.M while she proceeded to see
her vegetable garden near river, she noticed a bicycle with vegetables
beside the road. Though she was there for half an hour but had seen
none. At that time, hearing cry of someone when she proceeded forward,

had seen the accused Ajijul committing rape upon a9 % years old girl.

%
y Seeing her, Ajijul released the girl and beg for pardon. Then she scolded
\
a site the accused and left the place and the girl also returned home. She
ayy jue
Sco reported the incident to the mother of the girl and asked not send the girl

to river alone. She further deposed that in the incident while she was

abusing the accused, Muktar Ali reached there and enquired
 

%
-

special oO ge

Bongaeeo™

(6)
whether the vegetables upon the bicycle belonged to accused. She
proved her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C as Ext 1. During cross examination
she stated that they did not use the river for bathing. She stated that
seeing the incident, she did not call the villagers and also did not take the
girl to her house. She denied about any case between herself and the

accused prior to the incident.

14. PW 5 Ranu Choudhury, in her evidence stated that
one day PW 4 coming to her house reported that on previous day a girl
was raped by accused Ajijul in village Abadi which incident she
witnessed while went there to change the place of her cow. At that time
she (PW 5) was counselor of Family Counseling centre. She advised PW
4 to ask the parents of the girl to lodge FIR. She stated that they some
women also went to Manikpur Police Station and met the victim there
and on being asked the victim, she asserted the incident. During cross-
examination she stated that the parents of the victim did not report either

orally or in writing before the Family Counseling centre.

15. PW 6 Eskar Ali knew nothing about the incident.
PW 7 Salam Ali turned hostile. He stated that he heard nothing.

16. PW 8, the victim in her evidence deposed that on the
day of incident at 12.00 noon she went to river for taking bath and after
bathing when she was standing on the bank of river, the accused came
there by riding a bicycle and gagging her mouth took her to the nearby
jungle and laying upon her body, tried to insert his penis in her vagina

but on being resisted, the accused could not succeed. She deposed that as

Contd...
 

(7)
her body was smeared with mud, she again took bath and threw away
her jangia in the river and then returned home. She deposed that after
the incident when she tried to stand up, mother of Aitu had seen her and
the accused and reported the incident to her mother. She proved her
statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C as Ext 2. During cross examination she stated
that the river is visible from their house. She stated that her mother and
grand mother were at home at the time of incident. She denied the fact
that the accused neither gagged her mouth nor tried to do bad act with
her. She stated that after the incident, PW 4 asked her mother to file
case saying that in case of filing case, they would get Rs. 1,00,000/- from

the accused and then they would share the money.

i?. So far the evidence PW 9, the mother of the victim
on the day of incident her victim daughter went to river for taking bath at
12.00 noon. After returning home, her victim daughter reported her
nothing but thereafter the wife of Bhabesh reported her first that accused
Ajijul removing the pant of her daughter did misdeed with her, Then on
being asked, the victim narrated that when the accused attempted to
commit misdeed with her, the mother of Aitu witnessed the incident. The
mother of Aitu reported the incident to wife of Bhabesh who reported her
first about the incident. Then she informed the matter to her husband who

lodged the FIR. During cross examination she stated that the river is

\t situated at a few distance from their house but the river is not visible
V
}, - from her house. She deposed that the villagers used to take bath in the
an iE lias .
gpeci! _ said river. She stated that on being asked, her daughter told her that the
Zon geBOh™

accused asked the victim to remove her pant but she did not remove.

Corroborating the evidence of the victim (PW 8), this witness also stated

that PW 4 asked to lodge the case against the accused saying that they
Contd....
 

(8)
would get money. She denied the fact that the case was filed falsely in

conspiracy with PW 4 to get money.

18. PW 10 Moneswar Patgiri knew nothing about the
incident.
19. Dr. Chandita Borah, the Medical Officer deposing as

PW 11 stated that on 12.2.2013 she examined the victim and on
examination found no injury mark over body or private parts. Hymen
absent, vagina admits two fingers with difficulty. She stated that sexual
intercourse can not be ruled out as hymen is absent. The medical officer
proved the report as Ext 3. During cross-examination she admitted that

hymen can be absent due to cycling and swimming.

20. PW 12 SI Sailen Kr Kalita, the Investigating Officer
deposed that on being entrusted to investigate the case, he recorded the
statement of the witnesses alongwith the victim, visited the place of
occurrence, prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence, vide
Ext.6, got recorded the statement of the victim and PW 4 U/S 164 Cr.P.C,
sent the victim for medical examination, seized a school certificate of the

victim vide Ext 4, arrested the accused and submitted charge sheet

% against the accused (Ext 7). He also proved the FIR as Ext 1. He stated
j; wv that the school certificate was produced by the father of the victim but he
w on did enquire about the authenticity of the school certificate.
“pongaigsom
ai. PW 13 Purnanda Das, the then Bench Assistant of

the Court of the Judicial Magistrate, Ist Class, Bijni deposed that on
Contd....
 

(9)
13.2.2013 the victim was produced in connection with Manikpur Police
Station case no. 827/13 U/S 376 IPC and accordingly the learned
SDJM(M) Smti_ T. Hussain recorded her statement. He further stated
that on 18.2.2013 PW 4 was produced in the Court for recording her
statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C in connection with this case which was
accordingly recorded by the then learned SDJM(M), Bijni Smti T.
Hussain Madam. He proved the statement of PW 4 and the victim as

Ext 1 and Ext 2 respectively.

das In the case in hand, the evidence of the victim is that
on the day after taking bath at nearby river, when she was standing at the
bank of the river, accused Ajijul Ali by riding his bicycle reached there
and gagging her mouth, took her to the nearby jungle, laid her upon
ground, removed her jangia and then laying upon her body tried to insert
his penis in her vagina but on being resisted by her, he could not succeed.
Thereafter she again took bath as her body was smeared with mud and
dropped her jangia in the river. According to her, after the incident when
she tried to stand up, mother of Aitu had seen her and the accused, and
then informed the matter to her mother. So as per evidence of the victim,
PW 4 had not seen the accused committing the alleged offence of rape.

PW 4 testified that when she went to see her vegetable garden situated

% near the river, she noticed a bicycle loaded with vegetables but saw no
AS body for half an hour and thereafter hearing somebody's cry, when by
enecksl qudges following the sound, she proceeded forward, she had seen the accused
-_ 2.argaor

committing rape upon the child victim and seeing her, the accused
released the girl and asked to forgive him. The evidence of PW 4 who
claimed to be the eye witness shows that the accused committed rape on

the victim but the

Contd...
 

b

PECs
ve ga0t-
we ageoe

(10)
victim herself stated that on being resisted by her, the accused could not
succeed to rape her. However, she alleged that the accused making her
laid upon ground, took off her jangia and then laying upon body tried to
insert his penis in her vagina. But the mother of the victim the most
natural witness to whom a child supposed to be reported first about any
incident, deposed that the victim told her nothing and when wife of one
Bhabesh reported her that the accused Ajijul removing pant of the victim
did misdeed to her, she asked the victim and then only the victim told
that the accused attempted to commit misdeed to her but again during
cross she stated that the victim told her the accused asked her to remove
pant which she did not. So the vital witnesses i.e the victim, her mother

and PW 4 stated different versions on material particulars.

ao Taking the evidence of PW 4 it is found that she
claimed to be the eye witness of the incident, but according to the victim
when she tried to stand up, mother of Aitu had seen her and the accused.
So the evidence of PW 4 that she had seen the accused committing rape
on the victim is not believable one. Moreover, according to PW 4 she
heard cry but the victim no where stated that she cried. Most
interestingly in the case, the victim during cross-examination stated that
PW 4 told her mother to lodge FIR saying that in filing FIR they would
get Rs. 1,00,000/- from the accused and they would share the money.
PW 9 mother of the victim herself corroborated that PW 4 asked her to
lodge case saying that they would get money. It is also in the evidence of
victim's parents that cases are pending between the accused and PW 4.
Victim's father (PW 2) does not deny the possibility of filing case falsely
for conspiracy of PW 4 due to her (PW 4) dispute with the accused.

Contd...
 

(11)
24. Further in the case, according to pw 5, the counselor
of Family counseling centre, on next day, the alleged incident was
reported to her by PW 4, not the parents of the victim. If such a heinous
incident was known to her on the very next day why they did not advise
for filing FIR immediately is the question. If according to PW 4, on the
very day she informed the mother of the victim about the incident which
she allegedly witnessed, why the parents waited for one week to lodge
the FIR. Such long delay in such a heinous crime was not explained by
the prosecution. According to the victim's mother (PW 9), the wife of
Bhabesh reported her first about the incident who (Bhabesh's wife) heard
from PW 4. So PW 9 also contradicted the version of PW 4 that she (PW
4) immediately reported the matter to PW 9. Further according to PW 4,
seeing the incident when she abused one Muktar came there and enquired
as to whether the vegetable upon the bicycle belonged to Ajijul. But

neither Muktar nor Bhabesh's wife was examined by the prosecution.

25. That apart PW 4 deposed that she went to see her
vegetable garden but in statement U/S 161 Cr.P.C she stated that she

went there for bathing which was confirmed by the Investigating Officer

(PW 12). In statement U/S 161 CrP.C she also stated that after the

t. er incident she bathed in the river. On the other hand PW 5 deposed that
= — + PW 4 told her that when she went to change the place of cow, she had
om eset ga 08. seen the incident. With the discrepancies in the evidence of PWs as

discussed above they cannot be believed in toto beyond all reasonable
doubt. Taking the evidence of PW 4, it is also not believable that inspite
of witnessing the incident, she did not accompany the minor girl to her
house. Further after the incident if the victim again bathed in the river,

Contd...
 

(12)
certainly PW 4 was present there at that time but she did not corroborate
that version. In the backdrop of evidence on recored, I am of the
considered opinion that benefit of the evidence which goes in favour of
the accused should be given preference to the evidence which goes in

favour of the prosecution.

26. Situated thus, the conclusion which is irresistible is
that the prosecution has not gathered the evidence of that standard which
is required to establish the guilt of the accused, even for the attempt of

sexual intercourse.

af. Under the facts and circumstances, I find that the
prosecution has failed to establish the case against the accused Md Ajijul
Ali U/S 6 of POCSO Act. The accused Md Ajijul Ali is acquitted of the
charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.

28. His bail bond shall remain in force till next six
months.
29. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this

4" day of December, 2018, at Bongaigaon.

NK
bows

(1. Barman} ,age,

e
sree sa son
Dictated and corrected by me,
a
(I. Barm
See eat ri
 

(13)
APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 —- Popi Begum.

PW 2 — Father of the victim.
PW 3 — Md Aituddin Ali.
PW 4 - Minara Begum.

PW 5 — Ranu Choudhury.
PW 6 - Eskar Alli.

PW 7 — Salam Ali.

PW 8 - Sahera Begum.

PW 9- Mother of the victim.
PW 10 -MoneswarPatgiri.
PW 11- Dr ChanditaBorah.
PW 12- S.I Sailen Kr Kalita.
PW 13- Purna Nanda Das.

Defence Witness:
Nil.

D Exhibited by P a
Ext-1 Statement of PW 4 U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext-2 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext-3 Medical examination report.

Ext-4 seizure list.

Ext-5 Ejahar.

Ext-6 Sketch map of the place of occurrence.
Ext-7 Charge sheet.

Material Exhibited by prosecution:

M. Ext 1 — School certificate

~ «
Nil. vw
(LB no
sat age
B A al 7 QR.
