Page 1 of 5

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, AT DIBRUGARH ::
Present : Mrs. S.P. Khaund,
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.
PCSO Case No.1 of 2016

Under Section 366 A of IPC read with Section 4 of PSCO Act.

State
-Versus-
Md. Alam Ali. ............. Accused person.
Appearance :
For the State : Smti. S. Akhtar, Ld. Addl. P.P.
For the accused : Sri Imtiaz Parvez Ld. Defence Counsel.

Date of evidence recorded : 20.05.17, 12.06.17,.

Date of argument heard : 12.06.17.
Date of judgment : 12.06.17.
UDGMENT
Ts The prosecution case in brief is that on 5.2.15, a minor victim 'X'

at about 10 a.m, proceeded towards Moran, but did not return. After a
frantic search, the victim's father could not find her and lodged this case
with the Police.

2. An ejahar was registered as Khowang P.S Case No.6/15, under
Section 366 A of the Indian Penal Code( IPC in short) and investigation

ensued.

A. The 1.0 embarked upon the investigation. He forwarded the
victim for medical examination and to the Magistrate for recording her
statement under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure ( Cr.P.C
in short). The 1.0 went to the place of occurrence, prepared the sketch
map and recorded the statements of the witnesses.
Page 2 of 5

4, On finding prima-facie materials he submitted charge-sheet
against the accused under Section 366 A of the IPC read with Section 4
of Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POSCO Act in
short).

5. On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished as this
case is triable by the Sessions Judge, Dibrugarh. The case was
committed to this court vide order dated 22.12.15.

6. After hearing both the sides a formal charge under Section 366
of the IPC read with Section 4 of PCSO Act was framed and read over
and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and

claimed innocence.
6. To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the
evidence of two (2) witnesses. The statement of the accused was

recorded.

7. | have heard the arguments forwarded by the Learned Counsel for
both the sides.

8. Points for determination

(i) Whether on 5.2.17, the accused induced the victim 'X' to go with him
with an intent that she may be forced to illicit intercourse?

(ii) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the
victim 'X'?

9. Decision thereon and the reasons for the decision
The complainant Debojit Newar has testified as PW.2 that he met the

accused for the first time in the Police Station. He lodged this case
against him. The incident took place about 2 years ago when his
Page 3 of 5

daughter, in the pretext of going to the tailor eloped with the accused.
He brought back his daughter but his daughter again eloped with the
accused. He lodged the ejahar Exhibit-1 where the Exhibit 1(1) is his

signature.

10. Similarly, the victim 'X' i.e. Smti. Pari Newar @ Parbin Begum
testified as P.W.2 that Accused Alam Ali is her husband. In the month of
February, in the year 2015, she eloped with the accused Alam Ali
without informing her parents. When her parents found her missing her
father lodged this case against the accused. As the police was searching
for her, she appeared before the Mohanbari Out Post along with the
accused person. The police recorded her statement and forwarded her
to the hospital for medical examination and to the Magistrate for
recording her statement. Exhibit-2 is her statement before the
Magistrate and Exhibit-2(1) and Exhibit-2(2) are her signatures. At
present, she was staying with the accused as his wife and she is blessed
with one daughter.

During her cross-examination she stated that she eloped with the
accused on her own volition as she had a love affair with him.

11. Analyzing the evidence of PW-1 and P.W-2, it is held that the
evidence does not at all implicate that the accused is complicit. The
victim testified that she eloped with the accused on her own volition as
she had a love relationship with the accused.

12. Thus, there is no evidence that the accused induced the victim 'X'’
to go with him or committed penetrative sexual assault on her. The
victim gave her age 20 years today and the incident took place in the
year 2015. Thus, it can be safely held that the victim was not a minor at
the time of the incident. .
Page 4of 5

13. In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that
there is no evidence that the accused committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim 'X' or kidnapped the victim or induced her by
enticing her to go with him. The prosecution has failed to prove this case
beyond all reasonable doubts. The accused Md. Alam Ali is acquitted
from the charges under Section 366 A of IPC read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.

14. Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open court on
the 12" day of June, 2017.

(Smti.S.P. Knaund),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 50f 5

APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses
PW-1 :-Sri Debojit Newar(complainant).
PW-2 :- Smti. Pari Newar @ Parbin Begum..

Defence witnesses

Nil.
Court witnesses
Nil.
Exhibits
Ext.-1 :- FIR.
Ext.-1(1) : - Is the signature of the complainant Sri Debojit
Newar.
Ext.-2 :- Is the statement of the victim before the
Magistrate.

Ext.2(1) & @(2):- Are the signatures of the victim Pari Newar.

(Smti.S.P. Khaund),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.
