IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE, SI VASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Special | udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No.65 of 2017 U/ S 366 IPC, R/ W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Sonari P.S. Case No. 29/2017)

State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Rahul Malakar ............. Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Sri A. K. Bora, P.P.
For the accused ; Sri D.K. Gohain, Advocate
(legal aid counsel)
Date of framing Charge: 18.12.2017
Dates of Evidence 12.01.2018
Date of Argument 12.01.2018
Date of J udgment ; 12.01.2018
JUDGMENT
1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 24.02.2017, one Md. Moinul

Haque lodged an FIR with O/C, Sonari P. S. alleging, inter alia, since the
morning of 24.02.2017, his minor daughter victim 'B' (name withheld) was
found missing from her house. Due to non-finding victim in the house, they
searched their missing daughter in different places and subsequently they
learnt that accused Rahul Malakar, who is an inhabitant of Bhajo Teao Gaon

under Sonari P.S. has kidnapped the victim.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Sonari P.S. Case No. 29/2017 U/S 366 (A)
IPC was registered and investigated into. During investigation, victim was

medically examined and recorded her statement in the court U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

Spl. (P) Case No. 65/2017 Page 1 of 8
The accused was arrested and forwarded him to court for judicial custody. On
completion of investigation, submitted Charge-Sheet against the above named
accused U/S 366 (A) of IPC.

3 Upon submission of Charge-Sheet, learned Sub-Divisional J udicial
Magistrate Charaideo at Sonari, by complying the provision of Section 207
Cr.P.C. has committed the case for trial before the court of Sessions with the

accused in Jail custody.

4, On receipt of the case on commitment, vide order dated
05.05.2017, the case was transferred to the court of Id. Addl. Sessions J udge,
Sivasagar for disposal. Accordingly accused Rahul Mallakar was produced
before the court of Id. Addl. Sessions Judge, Sivasagar and vide order dated
19.05.2017, Id. Addl. Sessions J udge, Sivasagar framed the Charge U/S 366 IPC
against the accused person. After recording the examination-in-chief of the
informant, vide order dated 04.12.2017, learned Addl. Sessions Judge,
Sivasagar has opined that as the offence brought against the accused falls
under POCSO Act, 2012, case should be tired by Special Judge and sent back
the case record to this court for disposal. Thus on receipt of the record, on
18.12.2017, this case was registered as Spl. (P) Case No. 65/2017, and after
hearing both the sides, charge has been framed U/S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and
Section 366 IPC against the above named accused person to which he pleaded

not guilty.

7 During trial, prosecution side has examined only two witnesses
including the informant and the victim. Considering the nature of the evidence,
examination of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C is dispenses with and | proposed to
dispose the case by using powers u/s 232 Cr.P.C. without calling the accused to

enter into defence.

6. | have heard argument of learned P.P. Mr. A.K. Bora and Mr. D.K.
Gohain, learned Legal Aid Counsel and gone through the evidence on record. |

have considered the submission of both the sides.

Spl. (P) Case No. 65/2017 Page 2 of 8
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

7. (1) Whether on 24.02.2017 the accused kidnapped or abducted the
victim 'B'? If so, what was the intention of the accused person behind
such kidnap/abduction?

(11) Whether on 24.02.2017 or thereafter the victim 'B' was subjected
to penetrative sexual assault by the accused?

DECI SION AND REASONS THEREOF
8. PW-1 Md. Moinul Haque, in his evidence deposed that his
daughter, the victim is presently aged about 18 years and read upto class VIII
and left the school about 2 year back. On the intervening night of 23.02.2017
and 24.02.2017 while he along with his other family members were sleeping, at
night hours without their knowledge victim sneaked out of the home. On
24.02.2017 at morning after getting up, due to non finding his daughter in the
house, they searched her. During search, he went to the house of accused
Rahul Malakar and learnt that he was also missing from his house. On this
matter, he lodged an FIR at Sonari PS. Exbt. 1 is the FIR. On 25.02.2017, one
of his known person saw the victim at Bhajo Station and informed the matter to
him. Accordingly he went to the station and found his daughter at Bhajo
Station. On his asking, victim told her mother that she on her own went with
accused Rahul Malakar. He also informed the matter to police. Police took his
daughter for medical examination and to court for recording her statement.
Presently the victim is living with him. In his cross-examination PW 1 admitted
that presently he has settled the dispute with the accused and his family
socially. He cannot say the date of birth of my daughter. He denied the defence
Suggestion that his daughter’s present age is above 20 years. He further
admitted that prior to this, on 24.02.2016 also, his daughter went with the
accused. After this, he came to know that his daughter has love affairs with the
accused and she on her own left the home with an intention to marry the

accused. He has no objection in acquittal of the accused from both the cases.

9. PW-2 the victim B in her evidence deposed that accused Rahul

Malkar was her class fellow in Bhajo high School. She have love affairs with the

Spl. (P) Case No. 65/2017 Page 3 of 8
accused since last 2 years. She read upto class IX and left the school about 2
year back. On the intervening night of 23.02.2017 and 24.02.2017 while her
other family members were sleeping, at night hours without their knowledge
she left her home and went with the accused. They went to Arunchal and stay
there for one night. On 25.02.2017, they returned to Bhajo Station and while
she was sitting at the station, her father came there and took her to their
residence. On asking she informed her parents that she on her own went with
accused Rahul Malakar. Police took her for medical examination and to court for
recording her statement. Exbt. 2 is her statement given in Court. In her cross-
examination PW 2 admitted that having love affairs with accused, she went
with accused Rahul on her own. Accused did not induced her or used force in
taking away from her house. He accompanied the accused with an intention to
marry him. Prior to this case, on 24.02.2016 also, she went with the accused
and returned home on same day. She has no objection in acquittal of the

accused from both the cases.

10. From the evidence on record it appears that, though in the FIR
specific allegation of kidnap has been leveled against accused Rahul Malakar,
but during evidence, as discussed above, P.W. 2 the victim has admitted that
She had love affairs with the accused since last two years and on the
intervening night of 23.02.2017 and 24.02.2017 while her other family
members were sleeping, at night hours without their knowledge she left her
house and went with the accused to Arunachal and stayed there for one night.
On 25.02.2017 they returned to Bhajo Station and while she was sitting at the
Station, her father came there and took her to her residence. On asking victim
informed her parents that she on her own went with the accused. From her
cross examination it appears that accused did not induce her or used force in
taking away from her house, rather having love affairs with the accused she
went with him on her own. From the evidence of P.W. 1, the father of the
victim supported the evidence of the victim. In cross he further admitted that

the dispute between the accused and his family has socially settled and now he

Spl. (P) Case No. 65/2017 Page 4 of 8
has no objection in acquittal of the accused person from this case.

11. From the above it appears that though the victim is below the age of 18
years of age, but she did not implicated the accused on the point of kidnap by
way of inducement or taking her away by using force to leave the protective
umbrella of her parents. Admittedly she left the home on her own. As such
merely because she was minor on the date of incident, it cannot be said that by
removing the victim from the custody of her parents, accused has committed
the offence of kidnap as defined u/s 361 Cr.P.C. In support of my above finding,

the following ratios may be gainfully quoted.

12. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the reported case of S.
Varadarajan Vs. State of Madras [AIR 1965 SC 942] held as follows:-

11. It must, however, be borne in mind that there is a distinction
between "taking: and allowing a minor to accompany a person. The
two expressions are not synonymous though we would like to guard
ourselves from laying down that in no conceivable circumstance can
the two be regarded as meaning the same thing for the purposes of
S. 361 of the Indian Penal Code. We would limit ourselves to a case
like the present where the minor alleged to have been taken by the
accused person left her father's protection knowing and having
capacity to know the full import of what she was doing voluntarily
joins the accused person. In such a case we do not think that the
accused can be said to have taken her away from the keeping of her
lawful guardian. Something more has to be shown in a case of this
kind and that is some kind of inducement held out by the accused
person or an active participation by him in the formation of the
intention of the minor to leave the house of the guardian.

12. It would, however, be sufficient if the prosecution establishes that
though immediately prior to the minor leaving the father's protection
no active part was played by the accused, he had at some earlier
Stage solicited or persuaded the minor to do so. In our opinion if
evidence to establish one of those things is lacking it would not be
legitimate to infer that the accused is guilty of taking the minor out of
the keeping of the lawful guardian merely because after she has
actually left her guardian's house or a house where her guardian had
kept her, joined the accused and the accused helped her in her
design not to return to her guardian's house by taking her along with
him from place to place. No doubt, the part played by the accused
could be regarded as facilitating the fulfillment of the intention of the

Spl. (P) Case No. 65/2017 Page 5 of 8
13.

girl. That part, in our opinion, falls short of an inducement to the
minor to slip out of the keeping of her lawful guardian and is,
therefore, not tantamount to "taking".

Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the reported case of Sachindra

Nath Mazumder Vs. Bistupada Das and Ors. [1978 Cri.L) 1494] held as follows:-

14.

“7. Next, it was to be proved that the accused was materially
instrumental either in counselling the minor to leave or helping her in
leaving the guardian's protection. The victim girl P.W. 5 stated in her
evidence that she had left the guardianship of her father on her own
accord, as she was in love with accused Bistu whom she married
Subsequently. True, the girl was recovered from the house of the
brothers namely, accused Bistu Pada and Kesto Pada, but a man is
not bound to return to her father's custody a girl who without any
inducement on his part has left her home and come to the accused
later on. It must be shown that the man took some active step by
persuasion or otherwise to cause the girl to leave her home. In the
absence of any evidence as to inducement or actual taking, mere
finding of the accused and the victim girl living under the same roof
would not substantiate the prosecution case of kidnapping.

8. The girl in this case stated in her evidence that she had abandoned
the guardianship of her father on her own accord, as her father was
reluctant to give her in marriage to accused Bistu. A minor may not
be competent to give her consent to her taking, but a minor is
certainly competent to leave the protection of her guardian on her
own accord. Thus, the position remains that P.W. 5 left her parent's
guardianship on her own accord only because her guardian was not
approving the proposed marriage. In the circumstances, the girl even
if she had been found under 18 years, would not be said to have
been kidnapped by the accused. Mintu P.W. 5 and accused Bistu are
Said to have been married subsequently.”

Hon'ble Himachal Pradesh High Court in the reported case of

Khyali Ram Vs. State of Himachal Pradesh [1979 Cri.L.J 620], held as follows:-

“In order to attract the offence of kidnapping under Section 361,
|.P.C, something more had to be proved than mere joining of the
accused with the girl. An active participation by the accused in the
formation of the intention of the girl either immediately prior or
sometime before she left her father's house, was required to be
established. In my opinion, the ratio of the Supreme Court decision in
S. Varadarajan v. State of Madras 1965 CriL) 33 is attracted in the
instant case. It will be difficult to say that the accused had taken or
enticed Ram Pyari and as such the offence under Section 361 was

Spl. (P) Case No. 65/2017 Page 6 of 8
not formulated.”
15. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the reported case Shyam and
another vs. State of Maharashtra [AIR 1995 SC 2169] has held that .....
“She was a fully grown up girl may be one who had yet not touched
18 years of age, but, still she was in the age of discretion, sensible
and aware of the intention of the accused Shyam, That he was taking
her away for a purpose. It was not unknown to her with whom she
was going in view of his earlier proposal. It was expected of her then
to jump down from the bicycle, or put up a struggle and, in any case,
raise an alarm to protect herself. No such steps were taken by her. It
seems she was a willing party to go with Shyam the appellant on her

own and in that sense there was no "taking" out of the guardianship
of her mother.”

ak: So far the charge regarding commission of penetrative sexual
assault is concerned, P.W.2 the victim is totally silent on this aspect. In her
examination-in-chief, the victim nowhere stated that accused has committed
sexual intercourse with or without her consent. There is no allegation of
penetrative sexual assault against the accused Rahul Malakar either in FIR or in

evidence.

17. To sum up the discussion, | am of the considered opinion that
prosecution has failed to prove the charges U/S 366 IPC and Section 4 of
POCSO Act, or any other minor offences against the accused Rahul Malakar. As
such, accused Rahul Malakar is acquitted from the charges U/S 366 IPC and
Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and set at liberty forthwith.

18. Issue release order to the Jail Supdt. of District Jail, Sivasagar
accordingly.

19. As the accused is in Jail, no order is passed U/S 437 A Cr.P.C.

20. Considering the nature of the case, the matter is not referred to

DLSA for granting compensation U/S 357 A Cr.P.C.

21. Learned legal aid counsel is entitled for his professional fees from

DLSA as per rules.

Spl. (P) Case No. 65/2017 Page 7 of 8
22. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

23. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case Is disposed of on
contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 12" day of
January, 2018 at Sivasagar.

Special J udge
Sivasagar
APPENDIX
1. Prosecution witnesses :
P.W.1- Md. Moinul Haque (informant)
P.W.2- Miss Babina Begum (victim)
2. Defence witnesses - None

3. Court witnesses - None

4. Exhibits by prosecution -
Exbt. 1 - FIR

Exbt. 2 - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.

Special J udge
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 65/2017 Page 8 of 8
