Page 1 of 9

DISTRICT- CHARAIDEO.
IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE: CHARAIDEO: SONARI
Present:- Syed Imdadur Rahman, AJS.

SPECIAL JUDGE

The 29" day of May, 2019.

SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 48 OF 2016
Under Section
4 of the Protection of Children
from Sexual offences Act, 2012.
Read With
376(2)(i) of the Indian Penal Code.

State of Assam
-Versus-
Sri Sanjay Lama.
rae reine Accused Person.

Sri Basanta GogoOl........:.0008 Advocate for prosecution side.
Sri Anil Chandra. Dutta............. Advocate of the accused.
F.I.R was lodgedon ooiiiiiiu: 10.10.2016

Charge framed on riittins:: 19.11.2016 & 06.10.18
Argument Heard on iiinis:: 26.04.2019

Judgment Delivered on iii: 29.05.2019
Page 2 of 9

JUDGMENT

In this case the accused person is facing
trial under section 4 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012,
and alternatively Under Section 376(2)(i)
I.P.C.

1. The case of the prosecution is that, the accused, on 08.10.2016 at 3 P.M,
after calling the daughter of the informant, who is 5 years old, to a nearby bamboo

groove, raped her there.

2. That, the F.I.R was lodged before the Moranhat Police station, which
registered its P.S case no 127/16 in this regard. Police after investigation forwarded
charge sheet U/S 4 of the Protection of children from Sexual offences Act, 2012
against the accused person. Thereafter, on being summoned, the accused appeared
before court and charge U/S 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual offences
Act, 2012 was framed against the accused person. That, at a later stage the charge
was altered and Charge under section 4 of the P.O.C.S.O Act, 2012 and alternatively
(as per section 42 of the P.O.C.S.O Act) Charge under section 376(2)(i) I.P.C was
also framed against the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the
accused person to, which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Prosecution

examined nine witnesses.

3. The accused person was examined U/S 313 Cr.p.c, where he denied the case
of the prosecution. The accused person examined no witness. I have heard

arguments put forwarded by both sides.

4. In this case the points for determination are:-

A) Whether, the accused since 08/10/16 committed penetrative sexual

assault against the daughter of the informant?
Or, alternatively,

B) | Whether the accused committed rape upon the minor daughter of the

informant, who is differently able?
Page 3 of 9

5. Discussion decision and reasons for the _ decision

6. Before discussing of the evidences on record and before arriving at a
decision, let us now look in to two vital legal aspect connected to this case. Here in
this case the accused is facing trial primarily under the Protection of children from
Sexual Offences Act 2012.

Section 29 of the act is as follows:- Where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
section 3,5,7 and Section 9 of this act, the Special Court shall presume,
that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is proved. Here as per the
procedural law the trial court shall presume the accused guilty of the

offence he is facing trial, unless disproved by him.

Section 4 of the Indian Evidence act 1872 defines the term “shall
Presume” as follows :- Whenever it is directed by this act that the court
shall presume a fact, it shall regard such fact as proved, unless and until it

is disproved.
Now, behind this background, we have to come to a conclusion in this case.
Direct evidence

7. In this case the alleged victim was produced before court as PW 2. On 06-
03-2017 it was observed by the then Presiding Officer that she appears to be lack
understanding of questions and as such, her evidence could not be recorded for

which in this case there is no evidence recorded from the alleged victim.
Other Evidences on record

8. PW 1 is the informant/mother of the alleged victim. She in her evidence
deposed that Pramila Hemram is her daughter. That, her present age is 5 years.
That, one year back, while she was with her daughter in their residence, accused
came to her place with some cows. That, she had heard from inside that accused
after talking with her daughter Pramila, took her towards bamboo bushes. That, she
has seen her daughter was going behind the accused. That, after sometimes her

daughter came back limping. When she asked about the matter, she started
Page 4 of 9

weeping. That, she has seen her panty in wet condition with sticky article. That, her
daughter told her that accused pushed his penis in her. That, she took her daughter

to hospital. Her daughter was complaining, pain in her abdomen.

In cross-examination this PW deposed that she used to live in the land of
accused by constructing a house. On the same day of the incident she took her
daughter to Bagan hospital. That, medical certificate given by doctor was handed
over to the ‘Asha’ sister. That, the wet panty was washed as she has no other panty.
That, the accused returned from there in front of his house. On the day of the
incident he was at his place of work. That, she has informed the incident to him.
After the incident she met the accused at her residence. That, after leaving of the
accused her daughter returned from bamboo bushes. At that time she did not ask

any question to the accused.

9. In this case, in absence of the evidence of the alleged victim this
PW/informant is the most material witness of this case. A scrutiny of the evidence of
the PW 1 will yield that she has not seen the incident rather she was told by the
victim (her daughter) that accused pushed his penis into her. It is also yielded from
the evidence of the PW 1 that she has seen her daughter going behind the accused
towards bamboo bushes. The cross-examination also yielded that the accused on
the day of the incident was at his work place and she has informed about the
incident to him. That, after the incident she met the accused at her residence and at
that time she did not ask him any question. The evidence yielded from cross-
examination that on the day of the incident the accused was at his work place and
she has informed the incident to him has brought a very severe doubt about the
case of the prosecution for the reason as to why the informant will inform the
incident to the accused. Further, the position of evidence that after the incident she
met the accused at her residence and did not ask any question about the incident

also raised question of credibility of the PW 1.

10. PW 3 in his evidence deposed that victim is known to him she is 4 years old.
That, on 08-10-2016 he heard from family of the accused that Sanjay committed
rape on Pramila. Here the evidence is that this PW gathered knowledge of the

incident after hearing it from the family members of the accused.
Page 5 of 9

11. PW 6 in his evidence deposed that on 08-10-2016 while he was at Dimow
one Pradip Deka informed that, mother of the victim informed him over telephone
that, rape was committed on the victim and she sought for advise for next step.
That, he being engaged with an essential work, advised to contact nearby ‘Asha’
worker. On the next day he went to Moranhat P.S. and met accused and victim

there. That, he did not enquire about the incident from victim or her mother.

In the cross-examination this PW deposed that he did not tell police that
Pradip Deka informed that he was given information that rape was committed on the
victim.
12. The PW 7 in his evidence deposed that on 08-10-2016 at night hours while
returning home, Jasai, father of the victim informed him that rape was committed on

his daughter by accused. That, he did not make an enquiry about the incident.

In the cross-examination this PW deposed that he did not state before police
that father of the victim informed him that rape was committed on his daughter by

the accused.

13. I have considered evidences of PW 3, PW 6 & PW 7 and found that they
were informed about the alleged incident by some third parties. The PW 6 & PW 7
did not even tell police that they received information about the incident. I have
considered the evidence of PW 3, PW 6 & PW 7 and found that they failed to adduce

anything specific, concerning, any of the points for determination.

14. The PW 4 in her evidence deposed that on 09-10-2016, she being ‘Asha
Karmi’ was called by the mother of the victim for meeting her daughter who was
suffering from lower abdominal pain, headache and fever. That, she went there with
her husband and talked with Pramila. That, on asking by her, Pramila Hemram and
her mother has told that on the previous day she went to bamboo bushes in the tea
garden belonged to the family of the accused for grazing cows and then accused
Tiger took her to a jungle area and committed rape. It was told that that her panty
was wet after the occurrence. That, she went to tea garden hospital where
preliminary treatment was given. Thereafter, victim was taken to Moran State

Dispensary where from she was sent to Sonari hospital.
Page 6 of 9

In the cross-examination this PW deposed that while calling her she was
informed only regarding lower abdominal pain, headache and fever. That, while
giving statement to police she did not state that, Pramila and her mother told her
that on the previous day accused took Pramila to jungle area and committed rape.
That, victim while telling of commission of rape told her that after opening her

panty, accused penetrated his penis into her vegina.

15. I have considered the evidence of this PW and found that according to her
the alleged victim and her mother told her that the alleged victim went to bamboo
bushes for grazing of cows and then the accused took her into a jungle area and

committed rape.

16. I have considered evidences of the mother of the alleged victim (PW 1) and
the evidence of this material witness (PW 4). According to the PW 1, accused took
Pramila towards bamboo bushes but according to PW 4 she was told by the PW 1
that Pramila went to bamboo bushes for grazing of cows. Also as per PW 1 her
daughter told her that accused raped her. The PW 1 never deposed that the alleged
incident took place in a jungle, rather from the evidence of PW 1 it can be gathered
that the incident occurred inside the bamboo bushes but as per PW 4 the PW 1 told
her that accused took Pramila to a jungle from the bamboo bushes and raped her.
According to PW 1, the place of occurrence is a bamboo bush where the victim was
taken by the accused but according to PW 4 she was told by the PW 1 that accused

took Pramila to a jungle from bamboo bushes where she went for grazing of cows.

17. At this stage, I have considered the evidence of the PW 5 who deposed that
on 08-10-2016 at 7:00 pm Pramila told her that while she went to bamboo bushes
for grazing cows, accused took her to jungle and committed rape. Also according to
PW 5 the mother (PW 1) also told similarly. If we scrutinized evidences of PW 1, PW
4 & PW 5 then we will find that according to PW 1 the place of alleged incident is a
bamboo bush and according to PW 4 & PW 5 it was told that the place of occurrence
is a jungle near the bamboo bush. This aspect has raised doubt over the prosecution

case concerning place of alleged incident.

18. PW 8 /.e. Dr. Pallav Gogoi who examined the alleged victim Pramila Hemram

deposed in evidence that on 10-10-2016 while he was working at Sonari Sub-
Page 7 of 9

Divisional Civil Hospital at 4:35 pm he examined Pramila Hemram in connection with
Moranhat P.S. case no. 127/16. The PW 8 deposed in evidence that on examination
of genitalia he found labia majora and minora normal, vegina normal, hymen intact.
Injury none. That, ultrasonography is normal in study (non-pregnant). The PW 8
deposed in his opinion that the age of the subject is 5-8 years. She is non-pregnant

and there is no sign of sexual intercourse or injury.

In the cross-examination this PW deposed that considering the age of the
victim, had there been any forceful sexual intercourse, mark of violence should have

remain there.

19. At this stage, I have considered the evidences on record particularly evidence
of the PW 1 that her daughter/alleged victim deposed that accused pushed his penis
into her and evidence of the doctor that the hymen of the alleged victim was found
to be intact at the time of the examination after the incident. The cross-examination
of the PW 8 yielded that there is no sign of mark of violence. Here the medical
evidences failed to support the case of the prosecution concerning penetrative
sexual assault upon the alleged victim Pramila, as, if there would have been any

penetration, the hymen may not have been intact.

20. I have considered evidences of the I.0. and found that witness Rekha Tapna
(PW 4) did not state before him that Pramila and her mother told her that accused

Tiger after taking Pramila to jungle area committed rape on her.

21. If we scrutinize evidences on record yielded from the cross-examination and

examination of PWs we will find the following points —

i) In this case the medical evidence has failed to support the case of the

prosecution, evidences of examined PWs.

ii) There are unignorable contradictions between the evidences of PW 1, PW

4 & PW 5 concerning the place of alleged incident.

iii) The evidence of PW 1 is self-contradictory. In one hand she deposed that
accused committed rape on her daughter and on the other hand she
deposed that on the day of incident accused was at his place of work and

she informed the incident to him.
Page 8 of 9

iv) The other witnesses ie. PW 3, PW 6 & PW 7 are having no specific

knowledge about the incident. They were only informed.

22. I have considered those above mentioned points and found that those have
surely disproved the prosecution case, as severe doubt has raised through those

points.

23. Under the above circumstances in presence of evidences as discussed above,
in opinion of this court, the accused has disproved the case of the prosecution for
which he is acquitted form the offences he is facing trial. He is set at liberty
forthwith. Bail bond executed by the accused is extended as per provision 437(A)
Cr.P.C. In opinion of this court there is no circumstance to invoke section 357(A) of
Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 29" day of May, 2019.

(S. I. Rahman)
Additional Sessions Judge : Sonari
Charaideo
Page 9 of 9

Appendix

Prosecution Witnesses.

Sl. 1---- Prosecution Witness 1 --- Gita Hemramb

Sl. 2---- Prosecution Witness 2 --- Alleged victim

Sl. 3---- Prosecution Witness 3 --- Dipak Lama

Sl. 4---- Prosecution Witness 4 --- Smti. Rekha Topno
SI. 5---- Prosecution Witness 5 --- Smti. Mina Bhengra
Sl. 6---- Prosecution Witness 6 --- Rantan Tanti

Sl. 7---- Prosecution Witness 7 --- Semual Topno

Sl. 8---- Prosecution Witness 8 --- Dr. Pallab Gogoi

Sl. 9---- Prosecution Witness 9 --- Suchen Chandra Bora

Prosecution Exhibits. Exhibit 1. Doctor Advice slip
Exhibit 2 Medical report.
Exhibit 2(1) signature of the PW 8.
Exhibit 3 FIR.
Exhibit 3(1) signature of the then O/C.

Exhibit 4 Sketch map.
Exhibit 4(1) signature of PW 9.

Exhibit 5 Statement of the victim.
Exhibit 6 Charge-sheet.
Exhibit 6(1) signature of PW 9
Defence witness.
Nil

Defence Exhibit.
Nil

(S. I. Rahman)
Additional Sessions Judge : Sonari
Charaideo
