IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE :::: SIVASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar,
Sessions J udge cum Special J udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 18 of 2016 U/ S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.
(Arising out of Sonari P.S. Case No. 89/2016)

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri RAMU Tanti usc eeeeeeeee ernie Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
For the accused Mr. D. M. Neog, Advocate

(Legal Aid Counsel)

Date of framing Charge: 16.09.2016 & 05.04.2017
Dates of Evidence ; 29.04.2017, 29.05.2017, 23.06.2017,

21.07.2017, 08.08.2017, 19.09.2017,

07.12.2017
Date of S/D 19.01.2018
Date of Argument 22.03.2018
Date of J udgment 05.04.2018

UDGMENT

1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 15.05.2016, informant Sri

Samaru Ghatowar lodged an FIR with O/C, Sonari Police Station alleging, inter
alia, that on that day, at about 4 PM after taking the victim 'M' (name withheld),
aged about five years inside the Bagan, accused Ramu Tanti has committed
rape on her and flee away from the place of occurrence. Subsequently accused

was apprehended by locals.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Sonari P.S. Case No. 89/2016, U/S 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and investigated. During investigation,

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 1 of 23
accused was arrested and forwarded to judicial custody. The victim was
medically examined and statement of the victim was recorded in the court U/S
164 Cr.P.C. On completion of investigation, 1.0. has submitted Charge-Sheet
U/S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused person.

3, Upon submission of Charge-Sheet, vide order dated 16.09.2016,
the then presiding officer has framed charge U/S 4 of POCSO Act 2012.
However upon detecting that while framing charge the accused was not
represented by any counsel of his own or by any legal aid counsel, services of
Advocate Mr. Dhiraj Dutta was provided to the accused as legal aid counsel to
defend the accused. Upon rehearing the matter on the point of framing charge,
considering the age of the victim, vide order dated 05.04.2017 charge was
reframed U/S 6 of POCSO Act 2012 to which the accused again pleaded not

guilty and claimed to stand trial.

4. It may be noted here that at the last stage of trial, on appointment
of Advocate Dhiraj Dutta as Public Prosecutor, Sivasagar; Mr. D.M. Neog, a
senior member of the Sivasagar Bar Association was appointed as Legal Aid

Counsel to defend the accused.

5. Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial and false implication.
Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was called upon to enter into

defence

6. | have heard argument of learned Special P.P. Mr. Srimanta Gogol
and Mr. D,M. Neog, learned Legal Aid Counsel and gone through the evidence

on record. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

7. (1) What was the age of the victim 'M' on the date of incident?

(11) Whether on 15.05.2017, victim 'M' was subjected to aggravated
penetrative sexual assault?

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 2 of 23
(111) If so, whether accused Ramu Tanti has committed the alleged
crime?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

8. Before going further, let me narrate the evidence of the witnesses

for better understanding of fact in issue.

9. PW-1 Smt. Sarumai Ghatowar, mother of the victim in her
evidence deposed that accused Ramu Tanti is known to her since after the
incident. On the date of incident, the victim was aged about 5 years and was a
student of KA class (Nursury class). On 15.05.2016, while she was returning
from bagan work, on way the boys playing, told her that victim M has come to
her work place in search of her and one boy wearing white shirt has taken her
away. On this, she have started searching her by calling her name and inside
garden area, saw that Victim was lying and accused was sitting near to her. On
seeing her, accused Ramu Tanti, whom she recognised in court, flee away
there from. She saw Victim in naked condition. Her pant was removed. She saw
bleeding injury on her private parts (urinary track). She also saw nail scratch
marks injury on her neck. Those marks were of gagging her neck while she
attempted to cry. There from by keeping her daughter on lap came to the
residence of Bagan owner Mahendra Gogoi at Longpatia. He informed the
matter to reporters and student union leader. There from, she was sent to
Rajapukhuri Hospital Rajapukhuri Hospital in 108 ambulance service and victim
was treated there. Her daughter was remained admitted in the hospital for four
days. Though her daughter was referred to AMCH, she cannot go there for lack
of money. Her husband has lodged the FIR on the same day of incident. On
asking, victim told her that accused has committed misdeed with her by
opening her pant and that accused has gagged her neck while she tried to cry.
Police also seized the wearing apparels of the victim. Police also seized one
Lollypop chocolate which was shown to her daughter for inducing her to take to

him. She had also given statement in Sonari Court. Exbt. 1 is her statement in

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 3 of 23
court. In her cross-examination by defence, PW 1 deposed that the garden in
which she work is a small tea garden. There were 12 workers in the said
garden. The place of occurrence is near the place of collecting the tea leaves.
The Bagan was spread over 8 bighas of land. The owner has another garden
over 7 bighas of land near to the garden where she work. Victim is her third
daughter. Her eldest daughter Nomi Ghatowar was married to accused Ramu.
About 2 years back she eloped with the accused and got married without taking
her consent. After about one year of conjugal life with the accused, after having
some quarrel with the accused her daughter (Nomi) returned home. Thereafter
her daughter (Nomi) got married with another person of her choice. They did
not have any cordial relation with the accused. She denied the defence
Suggestions that while giving statement to police or in court, she has not stated
that “On way the boys playing, told her that the victim come to her work place
in search of her and one boy wearing white shirt has taken her away and that
she took the victim to the residence of Bagan owner at Longpatia, that student
union boys met her and that they stayed for four days in hospital.” Victim has
no acquaintance with the accused due to non-maintaining relation with him.
She denied that due to sour relation with the accused, she has falsely
implicated the accused. She also denied that accused did not commit any
misdeed with the victim. She denied that as her eldest daughter was driven out
by accused, she has falsely implicated him with this incident. She also denied
that she tutored the victim to implicate the accused. She also denied that she

has not seen the accused near the place of occurrence.

10. PW-2 the victim while claiming her as student of Class |, failed to
give answers of question put by learned PP except saying that Ramu has
committed act of rape on her by showing her private parts. Her mother took
her to medical. Blood come on her TIKA (vagina). She also went to police.
During cross-examination by defence she however said that her mother has

Said that Ramu has committed rape with her.

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 4 of 23
11. PW-3 Sri Samaru Ghatowar father of the victim in his evidence
deposed that on the date of incident, victim was aged about 5 years and was a
Student of KA class (Nursury class). On knowing that condition of victim was
bad and she was taken to Hospital by 108 ambulance, immediately he came to
Rajapukhury Hospital, Sonari and saw her under treatment. She stayed there
for four days. Victim told him that Ramu has committed rape on her and
gagged her neck. Doctor has given treatment on her private parts. On this
incident, he lodged the FIR at Sonari PS. Police took him and his niece Bhanti to
place of occurrence. Accused was apprehended by local people and handed
over to police. Police also seized one Lollypop chocolate from the accused. In
his cross-examination he admitted that accused is a married man _ having
children. Before police, he has not stated that victim told him that accused
Ramu has committed rape on her and gagged her neck and that accused was
absconding and that local people apprehended Ramu. PW 3 admitted that
about 2 years back her eldest daughter Nami Ghatowar eloped with the
accused Ramu and got married without taking their consent. About three month
prior to the incident of this case, Ramu sent back his daughter Nami after
making quarrel with her. On this, they did not have any cordial relation with the
accused. He denied that on the matter of Nami, he threatened Ramu to take
revenge. He also denied that they have falsely implicated him for the torture on
his daughter (Nami). Near the storage place of plucked tea leaves, several

persons have their houses.

12. PW-4 Sri Deepak Ghatowar uncle of the victim in his evidence
deposed that on the date of incident, victim was aged about 5% years. On
15.05.2016, while he returned from work, he heard from Sarumai Ghatowar,
mother of the victim that accused Ramu has committed rape with the victim.
On knowing this, he along with other villagers went to search accused Ramu

but seeing them, Ramu fled away. Victim was taken to Rajapukhuri Hospital for

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 5 of 23
treatment. In his cross-examination, he admitted that before police, he has not

Stated that on seeing them Ramu fled away.

13. PW-5 Sri Choto Ghatowar, uncle of the victim in his evidence
deposed that on the date of incident, victim was aged about 5 years. On
15.05.2016, while he returned from work, he has seen that Sarumai Ghatowar,
mother of the victim was taking the victim on her lap and the victim was in
ailing condition with injury on her neck. Sarumai told him that accused Ramu
has committed rape with the victim. On knowing this, he along with other
villagers went to search accused Ramu and apprehended him and handed over
to VDP Secretary Pankaj Dey. Subsequently police arrived there. In his cross-

examination he admitted that he has no personal knowledge about the incident.

14. PW - 7 Sri Bablu Ghatowar in his evidence deposed that on the
date of incident, victim was aged about 5 years. On 15.05.2016, while he
returned from work, Sarumai Ghatowar, mother of the victim told him that
accused Ramu has committed rape with the victim. Victim was sleeping on the
lap of her mother. On knowing this, he along with other villagers went to
search accused Ramu. On seeing them, accused flew away but they
apprehended him and handed over to VDP Secretary Pankaj Dey. Subsequently
police arrived there and took Ramu with them. In his cross-examination, he
admitted that Ramu Married the elder daughter of Sarumai Ghatowar but
subsequently they got separated. PW 7 also admitted that before police, he has

not stated that on seeing them accused flew away.

15. PW - 8 Sri Pankaj Dey, the VDP Secretary in his evidence deposed
that on 15.05.2016, Sarumai Ghatowar, mother of the victim informed him that
accused Ramu has committed rape with his daughter at the bagan of Mahendra
Gogoi. Victim was on the lap of her mother with bleeding injuries. On knowing
this, Villagers went to search accused Ramu and apprehended him while he
attempted to flee away and handed over to him. Subsequently police arrived

there and took Ramu with them. Victim was sent to medical. he also went to

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 6 of 23
Rajapukhuri Hospital, Sonari. In his cross-examination, PW 8 deposed that
Sarumal Ghatowar told her that the incident took place near the tea leaf
storage room. He declined to confirm that before police he has stated that the
incident took place inside the leaf storage room and that accused was chased

and apprehended by villagers. Ramu was searched by 8-10 boys of the village.

16. PW - 9 Sri Mahendra Gogoi in his evidence deposed that on
15.05.2016, at about 4 pm Sarumai Ghatowar, mother of the victim came to his
residence and told that accused Ramu has committed rape with the victim at
the back side of leaf storage room of his bagan. Victim was on the lap of her
mother with bleeding injuries at her private parts. Victim was sent to Hospital
by 108 ambulance service. In his cross-examination, PW 9 deposed that
Sarumai Ghatowar works in his tea estate. It was a bagan of 10 bigha area.
There were three schools in and around Bagan. Normally Bagan work finishes
at 3.30 PM. Plucking work was closed at about 3 pm. No one remains at the
leaf storage room after 3.30 pm. He used to pay daily to the leaf pluckers. He
denied that Bagan work continues till 4-4.30 pm. He also denied that while
giving statement to police, he has stated that the incident took place inside the

leaf storage room.

17. PW - 10 Smt. Benu Bhumiz, ANM in her evidence deposed that on
15.05.2016, at about 6 pm while she was at duty as ANM Nurse at Rajapukhuri
Civil Hospital, Sonari police brought the accused Ramu Tanti for medical
examination and during search on his person, police found on candy pop
(Morton) with white colour plastic stick covered with silky paper from the shirt
pocket of Ramu Tanti and same was Seized. Exbt. 3 Is the seizure list. Exbt. 3(i)
is her signature. Police also brought one patient with the accused. In her cross-
examination she admitted that Sonari PS is situated at a distance of about 4 Km
from the Civil Hospital. During providing treatment by them, morton was

noticed as shown by police.

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 7 of 23
18. PW - 11 Sri Jadumani Das, Homegaurd in his evidence deposed
that on 15.05.2016 while he was attached at Rajapukhuri Civil Hospital OP,
Sonari, accused was brought for medical examination by OC Sonari PS. During
search on the person of accused, one candypop (Morton) with white colour
plastic stick covered with silky paper was recovered from the shirt pocket of
Ramu Tanti and same was seized. Exbt. 3 is the seizure list. Exbt. 3(ii) is his
Signature. In his cross-examination, he has not seen as to who has recovered
the morton from the hands of accused. He has not seen the fact of recovery of

morton from the accused on his own.

19. PW-12 Sri Naren Rajkhowa, the |/O of this case in his evidence
deposed that on 15.05.2016, the then O/C has received one information over
phone from Longpatia VDP Secretary Pankaj Dey regarding commission of rape
on a minor girl and that the said Girl has already sent for medical examination
to Rajapukhuri Hospital. On getting this information, same was entered in G D
Entry book vide Sonari PS G D Entry No. 456 dated 15.05.2016 and entrusted
him to investigate the matter. Exbt. 4 is the abstract copy of Sonari PS G D
Entry No. 456 dated 15.05.2016. Accordingly at 5.15 pm, he along with OC
Sonari PS and other police personal went to Rajapukhuri Civil Hospital at Sonari
and issued requisition for medical examination of the victim, aged about 4-5
years. While, they were at hospital, O/C Sonari PS has got the information of
apprehension of accused by local public of Longpatia Gaon and on this, he went
to Longpatia Village. On arrival there, he examined local witnesses and took
custody of the accused. Thereafter, he brought the accused to Rajapukhuri
Hospital for medical examination of the accused. During search of the accused,
he recovered one lollypop morton form the pocket of the accused and same
was seized at Hospital. Exbt. 3 is the seizure list. Exbt. 3(iii) is his signature.
During investigation, he learnt that accused by offering such lollypop Morton,
allured the victim and committed rape on her. On the same day, he also went

to the place of occurrence i.e. Tea leaf storage room of the T.E. belongs to

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 8 of 23
Mohendra Gogoi and drawn a sketch map of the PO. Exbt. 5 is the said sketch
map. On 15.05.2016 at about 8.30 PM father of the victim lodged a written FIR
at Sonari PS on which Sonari PS case No. 89/2016 was registered u/s 4 of
Pocso Act, 2012. Exbt. 6 is the said FIR. He also sent 2 witnesses to Court for
recording their statement in court u/s 164 Cr.P.C. During investigation he
collected the medical report and statement given by victim in court. Exbt. 7 is
the statement of witness Rima Ghatowar aged about 7 years. Though victim
was brought to court for recording her statement, but her statement could not
be recorded due to her tender stage. During investigation, he seized wearing
apparels of the victim, vaginal smear of victim in glass slide, 4 ML blood of
accused Ramu Tanti, Penile and urethral smear of accused Ramu Tanti in 2
Slides. Exbt. 8 is the seizure list. All these were taken by Doctor. He sent the
above seized articles to DFSL Kahilipara Guwahati but could not be examined
and returned with report for non-availability of chemical for performing DNA
Analysis of the sample at FSL Guwahati. Exbt. 9 is the report of DFSL Kahilipara
Guwahati. On completion of investigation, he has submitted the charge sheet
against the accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act. Exbt. 10 is the charge sheet. In his
cross-examination, the I/O deposed that In the Exbt. 4 (copy of G D Entry),
there was no mention of accused. Place of occurrence was tea leaf storage
house. There was no mention as to whether it was open or closed. There were
residences of different persons on three sides. On the east side there was
school. The houses are at some distance. In the sketch map he has not
mentioned about the area of T.E. but it is a small T.E. The distance of place of
occurrence and Rajapukhuri Hospital will be about 7-8 KM on one side. He did
not seize the wearing apparels of the accused. The seized morton was in sealed
condition. I/O in his cross examination confirmed that witness Sarumai
Ghatowar, while giving statement to police, has not stated that “On way the
boys playing, told her that her daughter Victim has come to her work place in
search of her and one boy wearing white shirt has taken her away, that she

took the victim to the residence of Bagan owner at Longpatia, that student

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 9 of 23
union boys met her, that they stayed for four days in hospital.” Witness
Mahendra Gogoi in his evidence stated that “the incident took place inside the
leaf storage room, that Sarumai came to his residence and informed him about
the incident.” Witness Mahendra Gogoi in his evidence has not stated that he
saw bleeding injuries at private parts of Victim. Witness Pankaj Dey in his
statement has stated that the incident took place inside the leaf storage room,
that accused was chased and apprehended by villagers. |/O has denied the

defence suggestion that he did not seized any lollypop morton from Ramu.

20. PW-13 Miss Rima Ghatowar in her evidence deposed that accused
Ramu Tanti is known to her being co-villager. Victim is her cousin being
daughter of her other uncle Samaru Ghatowar. Her residence is at some
distance. There are three other houses in between their residences. On the
date of incident, while knowing that Victim went alone to the other Bagan, in
search of victim, she went with the mother of Victim. On meeting the son of
Moon, who was playing on road, on asking about victim, he stated that he has
seen the girl going with a man wearing white shirt. On this, her aunty, started
searching the victim by calling her name. On arriving near to tea leaf storage
room, she saw that accused Ramu is pulling Victim in side bagan. On entering
inside garden area, upon hearing sound of gagging, she saw that Victim was
lying on the ground, and accused was sitting over to her. She saw the victim in
naked condition. Her pant was removed. Pant of Ramu was also open. On
seeing her, accused Ramu Tanti, warned her and on chasing, she hide herself.
There from accused left the place. Ongoing near to victim, she saw bleeding
injury on her private parts (urinary track). She also saw blood stains on her
pant. There from her aunty by keeping the victim on her lap, took her to
hospital. She has also given statement in Court. Exbt. 7 is her statement in
court. Exbt. 7(i) and 7(il) are her signatures. In her cross-examination she
admitted that accused Ramu married the eldest sister of victim. She denied the

defence suggestions that while giving statement to police or in court, she has

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 10 of 23
not stated that “On meeting the son of Moon, who was playing on road, on
asking about Victim, he stated that he has seen the girl going with a man
wearing white shirt; on arriving near to tea leaf storage room, she saw that
accused Ramu is pulling victim inside bagan; that on seeing her, accused Ramu
Tanti, warned her and on chasing, she hide herself.” She denied that she
deposed on being tutored by mother of Victim. She also denied that due to sour

relation, she has falsely implicated him.

21. From the above evidence on record, let me decide the points

formulated for just decision of this case.

22. Point No.1: So far age of the victim is concerned, P.W. 1 and P.W. 3,
the parents of the victim, in their evidence deposed that on the date of incident
victim 'M' was aged about five years and was a student of Nursery class. P.W. 4,
P.W. 5 and P.W. 7 has also supported the evidence of P.W. 1 and P.W. 3 so far
age of the victim is concerned. P.W. 6 is the Medical Officer, in his evidence
deposed that, as per Radiological report age of the victim is between 3 to 7
years. Though victim was a student of Nursery class, the |.0. of the case did
not collect any school certificate regarding age of the victim. While recording
the statement of the victim she also claimed her age as five years. Inspite of
above, the evidence of the parents of the victim which got supports from the
other evidence as well as the medical evidence remains unrebutted and
unshaken from the defence. Considering materials available on record, it can
Safely be held that on the date of incident the victim 'M' was aged about five

years.

23. Point No. Il: So far allegation of aggravated penetrative sexual
assault on the victim 'M' is concerned, the victim though called to court for
evidence but she failed to give evidence except stating that rape was
committed with her by showing her private parts, taking her to medical, coming
of blood from her private parts. From the evidence of P.W. 1, the mother of the

victim, it appears that when she recovered the victim at the Tea Garden she

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 11 of 23
saw the victim in naked condition. She also found bleeding injury at the urinary
track of the victim. Thereafter victim was taken to Hospital. P.W. 3, the father
of the victim has confirmed the fact that due to the physical condition of the
victim she was taken to Hospital and immediately he came to Rajapukhuri
Hospital and saw that Doctor has given treatment at the private parts of the
victim. The other witnesses examined by the prosecution have also
corroborated the fact that on 15.05.2016, at about 4 P.M. they heard regarding
commission of penetrative sexual assault (rape) on the victim. This part of
evidence remained unchallenged and unshaken in cross-examination by

defence.

24. P.W. 6, the M.O. in his evidence deposed that on 15.05.2016, at
about 6.20 P.M., on police requisition he examined the victim at Sonari Sub-
Divisional Civil Hospital who came to him with alleged history of sexual assault
and upon examination he found that cloths were unchanged and red coloured
Stain present, genitalia not developed, forchette tear and bleeding present.
clitoris present, hymen torn, vagina not developed, blood discharge present.
Basing on the above clinical findings, P.W. 6 has opined that evidence of recent
sexual assault was present. He proved the medical report as Exbt. 2. Defence
declined to cross examine the Medical Officer. The medical evidence clearly
Shows that on 15.05.2016 the victim, a five years old girl was subjected to
commission of penetrative sexual assault. In view of the age of the victim,
under the provisions of Section 5(m) of Pocso Act, the act of penetrative sexual

assault becomes aggravated penetrative sexual assault.

25. Point No. Ill : Now the prime question for determination is whether
the accused Ramu Tanti is the perpetrator of the crime of aggravated

penetrative sexual assault on the victim 'M'.

26. In the course of argument hearing, learned Special P.P. Mr.
Srimanta Gogol by referring to the evidence of the victim, P.W. 1 and P.W. 13

who went together in search of the victim and found the victim in injured

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 12 of 23
condition, has submitted that there is no scope of doubt regarding involvement
of the accused Ramu Tanti in the alleged crime on the victim. Learned Special
P.P. also pointed out that the victim being previously known to him as sister-in-
law, there is every opportunity for the accused to entice the victim while taking
her away to the leaf storage room of the nearby Tea Garden and to fulfill his
lust, accused had committed the crime. On the other hand, Mr. D.M. Neog,
learned defence counsel appearing for the accused by referring various parts of
the evidence, particularly the evidence of P.W. 1 and other witnesses has stated
that involvement of the accused is very much doubtful. He has argued that
from the evidence of P.W. 1 it appears that at the time of beginning of her
evidence, she refused to identify the accused except from the date of incident,
but from her cross examination, it appears that accused was her son-in-law and
that there was a quarrel between the accused and the elder daughter of the
P.W. 1. It is also pointed out that there is inconsistency regarding the place of
occurrence as to whether it was inside the leaf storage room or near the said
place. Learned counsel further pointed out the evidence of P.W. 1 and P.W. 13
who went to the place of occurrence together but their evidence are not
consistent to each other. Learned defence counsel has also pointed out various
exaggeration made by the prime witnesses from their earlier statements given

before police. | have considered the submission of both the sides.

Zi Though the victim 'M' was produced before this court for evidence
and she is examined as P.W.2, but virtually she gives no evidence except
Stating that Ramu has committed rape on her by showing her private parts and
in her cross she stated that her mother has said that Ramu has committed rape
with her. From the evidence of 1.0. (P.W. 12) it appears that even at the
beginning of the case, statement of the victim could not be recorded due to her
tender stage. Under these circumstances, Court has to rely on the evidences of

other witnesses including circumstances as available in the case record.

28. From the evidence of P.W. 1 and P.W. 13 it appears that on

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 13 of 23
15.05.2016 at about 4 PM while P.W. 1 was returning back from her work place,
on her way, the boys playing in the field, informed her that in search of her, the
victim has went to her work place and that the victim was taken by one boy
wearing white shirt. On this, she started searching the victim by calling her
name and saw the victim inside the garden area where the victim was lying on
the ground and accused was sitting near to her. On seeing her, accused Ramu
flew away. Immediately she informed the matter to Bagan owner Sri Mahendra
Gogol who in turn reported the matter to the reporters and student union
leader and sent the victim to Hospital. P.W. 13, a nine years old girl, cousin of
the victim, in her evidence deposed that while knowing that the victim went
alone to the Bagan area, she along with the mother of the victim went in search
of the victim and on their way, from the boys playing on the road, they came to
know that the victim was taken inside the garden by a man wearing white shirt.
On this her aunt, P.W. 1 started searching the victim by calling her name and
on arrival near the tea leaf storage room she saw the accused Ramu in pulling
the victim inside Bagan and upon entering inside Bagan area and on hearing
the sound of gagging, she found the victim was lying on the ground and
accused was sitting over to her. On seeing her, accused warned her and on
being chased she hide herself. Thereafter the accused left the place. In their
cross examination defence has pointed out that P.W. 1 has not stated the fact
of taking the victim by one boy wearing white shirt. During cross examination of
P.W. 13 it appears that said witness was exaggerated regarding knowing from a
boy regarding taking away of the victim by a man wearing white shirt and that
near the leaf storage room, seeing the accused in pulling the victim inside
Bagan or chasing her by the accused. But the facts that P.W. 1 and P.W. 13
went in search of the victim to the Bagan of Sri Mahandra Gogoi (PW 9), finding
the victim in injured condition and seeing the accused Ramu Tanti sitting near

the victim and then flee away from the place of occurrence remains unshaken.

29. The fact that the victim 'M' was subjected to penetrative sexual

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 14 of 23
assault by the accused Ramu Tanti can also be seen from the evidence of other
witnesses. P.W. 4, P.W. 5, P.W. 7 and P.W. 8 in their evidence has categorically
Stated that while they were returning from work place they saw the victim on
the lap of her mother (P.W. 1) and P.W. 1 has informed them that accused
Ramu has committed rape on the victim. They went for searching the accused
and upon seeing them accused flew away. P.W. 9, the Bagan owner has also
stated that on 15.05.2016, at about 4 P.M., mother of the victim came to his
residence and told him that accused Ramu has committed rape with the victim
at the back side of leaf storage room of his Bagan. On this he arranged 108

ambulance and sent the victim to Hospital.

30. From this part of evidence it is clear that just after the occurrence
the victim was recovered from the Bagan of P.W. 9 Mahendra Gogoi and while
P.W. 1 was carrying the victim on her lap she informed the matter to the
persons she met and also the Bagan owner Mahendra Gogoi by going to his
house. Evidence of above witnesses thus found relevant to determine the role
of the accused. The reporting of the matter of rape to other witnesses clearly
Shows that there is least chance to concoct or to frame the accused as argued

by defence.

31. Apart from above, the prosecution has brought another aspect. It
appears from the evidence of P.W. 1 that after recovery of the victim, on being
asked, the victim told her that accused by showing one Lolly-pop chocolate
enticed her to go with him. During evidence, P.W. 10, the ANM Nurse of
Rajapukhuri Hospital and P.W. 11, a Home-guard of said Hospital has stated
that accused was brought for his medical examination and during search on his
person, police found one candy pop (Morton) and seized the same vide Exbt. 3.
This part of evidence was supported by the 1.0. (P.W. 12). In his evidence 1.0.
has stated that during search of the accused he recovered one Lolly-pop Morton
from the pocket of the accused and same was seized vide Exbt. 3. I/O also

deposed that during investigation, he learnt that by showing a Lolly-pop,

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 15 of 23
accused allured the victim and committed rape on her.

32. Now coming on the defence argument regarding hesitation of the
P.W. 1 in identifying the accused and existence of previous enmity, the P.W. 1
in the first line of her evidence stated that accused Ramu is known to her soon
after the incident, but in her cross-examination, she admitted that her eldest
daughter Nomi Ghatowar was married to accused by eloping with him and after
one year of conjugal life with the accused, she returned back after having some
quarrel with the accused. Thereafter said Nomi got married with another person
and for this they did not have any cordial relation with the accused. Learned
Advocate for the defence though vehemently argued that out of the grudge,
the victim has implicated the accused Ramu, but failed to substantiate the same
except suggesting about the enmity. The probability of enmity for Nomi appears
to be non-est because it is in her evidence that after the leaving the accused,
her daughter Nomi took another husband. Has Nomi remained in her house,
there could have been some substance in the argument. It is well Known that
enmity is a double edges weapon. It may work either side as argued by
Learned Special PP. It might happen that accused wanted to take revenge of

the elder sister by molesting the younger one.

33. From the evidence of the witnesses as discussed herein-before, it
is clear that soon after recovery of victim, P.W.1 took the victim to P.W.9 and
P.W.6 and informed the other persons and did not get any chance to fabricate a
Story or to frame the accused. The evidence of P.W. 1 and P.W. 13 so far
having seeing the accused near the victim in the Bagan is found reliable and
trustworthy which was duly corroborated by the evidence of P.W. 4, P.W. 5,
P.W. 7, P.W. 8 and P.W. 9. Their evidence is relevant though they are hearsay
witnesses from the mother of the victim due to the immediate reaction given by
the P.W.1, mother of the victim to them. It must be kept in mind that at the
time of incident, the victim was hardly about 4 to 5 years old girl and she might

not be in a position to speak properly either for the trauma she sustained or for

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 16 of 23
her immature age or both.

34, The next limb of argument of the defence regarding place of
occurrence is of quite insignificant as to whether it was inside the leaf storage
room or near the said place. There is no dispute that the incident happened
inside the Tea Garden of PW 9 and in and around the tea leaf storage room.
The further argument of defence that though at the alleged time of incident it
was working hours of the tea garden, and there should have been other eye
witnesses seeing the accused and victim in the garden area, or the alleged
incident is clearly wiped out by the P.W. 9, the Garden owner, in his cross
examination categorically stated that normally Bagan work finishes at 3.30 P.M.
Plucking work closes at about 3.00 P.M. No one remains at the leaf storage
room after 3.30 P.M. From the evidence of P.W. 1 and P.W. 13 the incident
took place at about 4.00 P.M. So naturally there is least chance of having

seeing the incident by any other worker.

35. It may be noted here that during investigation, the I.0. (P.W.12)
though tried to get scientific evidence by collecting wearing apparels of the
victim, vaginal smear of victim in glass slide, 4 ml blood of accused Ramu Tanti
along with Penile and urethral smear of accused Ramu Tanti and sent those
articles for examination by Forensic Science Laboratory, Kahilipara Guwahati,
but said articles were returned unexamined by the said FSL due to non-
availability of chemical for performing DNA analysis of those articles at FSL
Guwahati at the relevant period. He proved the report as Exbt. 9. This reflects a
sorry state of affairs on the part of Government showing its apathy towards
Forensic Science Laboratory while the crime against women are increasing
tremendously and police was deprived of getting its case proved both by oral

evidence or scientific evidence.

36. To sum up the discussions, | am of the opinion that evidence of
P.W. 1 and P.W. 13 so far seeing the accused near the victim is found reliable

and trustworthy. The other witnesses have also supported the prosecution case

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 17 of 23
so far involvement of the accused is concerned. | found nothing to disbelieve

their testimony.

37. Considering all above, | have no hesitation to hold that accused
Ramu Tanti has committed the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual assault
upon the victim 'M', a girl of about 5 years old and make himself liable for
punishment as provided U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.

38. In view of above, | hold the accused guilty for the offence
punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and accordingly accused Ramu Tanti is
convicted for the offence punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.

39. | have considered the applicability of Section 3 & 4 of Probation of
Offenders Act in this case. Considering the nature of the offence proved by the
prosecution and also considering the punishment provided for the offence, | am
not inclined to extend the benefit of the benevolent provisions of law to the

accused.

40. Heard the accused on the point of sentence. His statement is
recorded in separate sheets. | have also heard learned Advocate for both the
sides. Learned Special PP has prayed for awarding maximum punishment for
the accused. Learned legal aid counsel has prayed for leniency in sentence by

narrating the family background of the accused.

41. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of State of
Punjab v. Gurmit Singh [(1996) 2 SCC 384] has expressed its anguish on the

increasing rate of crime against women, has held as follows:

“21. Of late, crime against women in general and rape in particular is on
the increase. It is an irony that while we are celebrating women's rights
in all soheres, we show little or no concern for her honour. It is a sad
reflection on the attitude of indifference of the society towards the
violation of human dignity of the victims of sex crimes. We must
remember that a rapist not only violates the victim's privacy and personal
integrity, but inevitably causes serious psychological as well as physical
harm in the process. Rape is not merely a physical assault — it is often
destructive of the whole personality of the victim. A murderer destroys

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 18 of 23
42.

the physical body of his victim, a rapist degrades the very soul of the
helpless female. The courts, therefore, shoulder a great responsibility
while trying an accused on charges of rape. They must deal with such
cases with utmost sensitivity.

On the point of awarding just sentence in a case of rape, Hon’ble

Supreme Court of India has observed that Shyam Narain v. State (NCT of
Delhi), [(2013) 7 SCC 77] has laid down the law in following words:

43.

“14. Primarily it is to be borne in mind that sentencing for any offence
has a social goal. Sentence is to be imposed regard being had to the
nature of the offence and the manner in which the offence has been
committed. The fundamental purpose of imposition of sentence is based
on the principle that the accused must realise that the crime committed
by him has not only created a dent in his life but also a concavity in the
social fabric. The purpose of just punishment is designed so that the
individuals in the society which ultimately constitute the collective do not
suffer time and again for such crimes. It serves as a deterrent. True it is,
on certain occasions, opportunities may be granted to the convict for
reforming himself but it is equally true that the principle of
proportionality between an offence committed and the penalty imposed
are to be kept in view. While carrying out this complex exercise, it Is
obligatory on the part of the court to see the impact of the offence on
the society as a whole and its ramifications on the immediate collective
as well as its repercussions on the victim.”

In the above referred case of Shyam Narain (supra), Hon’ble

Supreme Court of India while dealing with the matter of imposition of life

imprisonment to the convict for the offence of 376(2)(f) for committing rape on

a 8 year old girl child after discussing various judgment of Hon'ble Supreme

Court of India has held as follows:

25. Keeping in view the aforesaid enunciation of law, the obtaining
factual matrix, the brutality reflected in the commission of crime, the
response expected from the courts by the society and the rampant
uninhibited exposure of the bestial nature of pervert minds, we are
required to address whether the rigorous punishment for life imposed on
the appellant is excessive or deserves to be modified. The learned
counsel for the appellant would submit that the appellant has four
children and if the sentence is maintained, not only his life but also the
life of his children would be ruined. The other ground that is urged is the

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 19 of 23
background of impecuniosity. In essence, leniency is sought on the base
of aforesaid mitigating factors.

26. |t is seemly to note that the legislature, while prescribing a minimum
sentence for a term which shall not be less than ten years, has also
provided that the sentence may be extended up to life. The legislature,
in its wisdom, has left it to the discretion of the court. Almost for the last
three decades, this Court has been expressing its agony and distress
pertaining to the increased rate of crimes against women. The eight year
old girl, who was supposed to spend time in cheerfulness, was dealt with
animal passion and her dignity and purity of physical frame was
Shattered. The plight of the child and the shock suffered by her can be
well visualised. The torment on the child has the potentiality to corrode
the poise and equanimity of any civilised society. The age-old wise
saying that “child is a gift of the providence” enters into the realm of
absurdity. The young girl, with efflux of time, would grow with a
traumatic experience, an unforgettable shame. She shall always be
haunted by the memory replete with heavy crush of disaster constantly
echoing the chill air of the past forcing her to a state of nightmarish
melancholia. She may not be able to assert the honour of a woman for
no fault of hers.

27. Respect for reputation of women in the society shows the basic
civility of a civilised society. No member of society can afford to conceive
the idea that he can create a hollow in the honour of a woman. Such
thinking is not only lamentable but also deplorable. It would not be an
exaggeration to say that the thought of sullying the physical frame of a
woman is the demolition of the accepted civilised norm i.e. “physical
morality”. In such a sphere, impetuosity has no room. The youthful
excitement has no place. It should be paramount in everyone's mind
that, on the one hand, society as a whole cannot preach from the pulpit
about social, economic and political equality of the sexes and, on the
other, some perverted members of the same society dehumanise the
woman by attacking her body and ruining her chastity. It is an assault on
the individuality and inherent dignity of a woman with the mindset that
she should be elegantly servile to men. Rape is a monstrous burial of her
dignity in the darkness. It is a crime against the holy body of a woman
and the soul of the society and such a crime is aggravated by the
manner in which it has been committed. We have emphasised on the
manner because, in the present case, the victim is an eight year old girl
who possibly would be deprived of the dreams of “Spring of Life” and
might be psychologically compelled to remain in the “Torment of
Winter”. When she suffers, the collective at large also suffers. Such a
singular crime creates an atmosphere of fear which is_ historically
abhorred by the society. It demands just punishment from the court and

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 20 of 23
to such a demand, the courts of law are bound to respond within legal
parameters. It is a demand for justice and the award of punishment has
to be in consonance with the legislative command and the discretion
vested in the court.

28. The mitigating factors put forth by the learned counsel for the
appellant are meant to invite mercy but we are disposed to think that the
factual matrix cannot allow the rainbow of mercy to magistrate. Our
judicial discretion impels us to maintain the sentence of rigorous
imprisonment for life and, hence, we sustain the judgment of conviction
and the order of sentence passed by the High Court.”

44, Keeping the law laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India so
far awarding of sentence is concerned, though learned legal aid counsel
appearing for the accused has prayed for mercy by referring the family back
ground and children of the accused, | am of the considered opinion considering
the nature of the brutality in committing the offence of aggravated penetrative
sexual assault on a 5 year old girl as proved by the prosecution, | am of the
considered opinion that accused does not deserve any leniency in sentence.
The maximum sentence provided by law i.e. imprisonment for life with some

amount of fine is the only just sentence in this case.

45. Accordingly, convict Ramu Tanti is sentenced to undergo rigorous
imprisonment (RI) for life for committing the offence punishable U/S 6 of Pocso
Act, 2012 and also to pay a fine of Rs. 5000/- (Rupees five thousand) only i/d
further SI of 6 (six) month.

46. Convict Ramu Tanti is remanded to District J ail, Sivasagar to serve

out the remaining part of sentence.

47. Convict Ramu Tanti is entitled for the benefit of Section 428

Cr.P.C. for the period already undergone during investigation and trial.

48. Considering the fact of imposing meager amount of fine due to
poor financial back ground of the convict, no order is passed for payment of

compensation to victims U/S 357 Cr.P.C.

49. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the matter Is

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 21 of 23
referred to DLSA Sivasagar for exploring the possibility of compensation U/S
357A Cr.P.C. Send a copy of the judgment to Secretary DLSA Sivasagar for

needful action.
50. Seized articles be destroyed in due course of time.

51. Let a free of cost copy of the judgment be given to the convict

Ramu Tanti immediately as per the provisions of Section 363(1) Cr.P.C.

52. Convict Ramu Tanti is informed about his right of appeal against
the judgment and order of conviction and sentence either by appointing his

own advocate or though legal aid panel advocate or by way of J ail Appeal.

53. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Charaideo U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

54. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this 5"" day of April, 2018 at

Sivasagar.

Special J udge
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 22 of 23
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses -

P.W.1 -

P.W.2 -
P.W.3 -
P.W.4 -
P.W.5 -
P.W.6 -
P.W.7 -
P.W.8 -
P.W.9 -

Smt. Sarumai Ghatowar
(Victim)

Sri Samaru Ghatowar (Informant)
Sri Deepak Ghatowar
Sri Choto Ghatowar

Dr. Mintu Deb (M.O.)

Sri Babku Ghatowar

Sri Pankaj Dey

Sri Mahendra Gogol
P.W.10 - Smt. Benu Bhumiz
P.W.11 - Sri Jadumoni Das

P.W.12 - Sri Naren Rajkhowa (1.0.)

P.W.13 - Miss Rima Ghatowar
2. Defence witnesses : None
3. Court witnesses None
4. Exhibits by prosecution -

Exbt.1
Exbt.2
Exbt.3
Exbt.4
Exbt.5
Exbt.6
Exbt.7
Exbt.8
Exbt.9
Exbt.10

164 Cr.P.C. statement of witness Sarumai Ghatowar.
Medical examination report of victim 'M'

Seizure list

Copy of Sonari P.S. GD Entry No.456,dated 15.05.2016
Sketch map

FIR

Statement of witness Rima Ghatowar

Seizure list

Report of DFSL, Kahilipara Guwahati

Charge-Sheet

Special | udge,
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 18/2016 Page 23 of 23
