 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 03 (M) of 2018
U/s 12 of POCSO Act

The State Of ASSAM — kaa eeeccecaeseceeeeeaeees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Romesh Tanti
S/o- Sri Kartik Tanti
R/o- Milon Nagar, Digboi
P.S- Digboi
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM kee eeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee Accused.
Appearance:

Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the State

N.K Phukan,

Advocate under DLSA ..............05 For the accused.

Date of Argument: 03/12/2018, 17/12/2018,
21/12/2018 & 04/01/2019

Date of Judgment: 10/01/2019
J} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

Li On the day of occurrence, at about 2 pm, the accused
had come to the house of the victim girl. At that time, she was
alone in the house, as her parents had gone out of home for
work. On the day of occurrence, Swarasati Puja was being
celebrated. It is alleged that the accused took the victim girl to
the room of her uncle, where he pressed her mouth and
removed her pants. At that moment, the mother of the victim
girl entered into the room and nothing further could take
place. The mother of the victim girl had lodged an ejahar
before police.

2. During the period of investigation, the victim girl was
subjected to medical examination. But the victim girl refused
to give consent for medical examination of her private parts.
However, on the basis of radiological examination, the Doctor
opined that the age of the victim girl was between 13 to 15
years.

3. During the period of investigation the victim girl had
also given a statement u/s 164 Cr.PC, wherein she has claimed
to be 18 years of age. She has supported the prosecution
case, while giving her statement u/s 164 CrPC.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

4. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had sexually harassed the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as six witnesses,
including the Dr. Nirja Saikia, who had examined the victim girl
during investigation and the Police Investigating Officer
Kuladhar Konwar. The defence plea is total denial and no
evidence has been adduced by the accused. | have carefully
gone through the prosecution evidences.

6. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up
the evidence of the victim girl. She has supported the
prosecution case, by stating that the accused took her to the
room of her uncle, where he had pressed her mouth and
removed her pants. The victim girl has stated that the accused
had lean upon her and at that moment her mother had
entered into the room. During cross examination, the victim
girl stated that on the day of occurrence and at the relevant
time of occurrence, her younger brother Rahul was also in the
house, but as he was playing on his own, he could not see the
victim girl being taken into the room of her uncle. The victim
girl has stated that the houses of Sita Sachi, Bodi and Mana
have their houses around her house. The victim girl has
stated that all these persons had come to her house when her
mother started to beat the accused. The victim girl has stated
that police had taken away her wearing apparels.

7. Now, | shall take up the evidence of the mother of the
victim girl. She has stated in her evidence that according to
the birth certificate (Ext.1), her daughter was born on
05/06/2009. She has stated in her evidence that on the day of
occurrence, she had gone out of her house for work leaving
behind the victim girl and her younger brother in the house.
She has stated in her evidence that within 15 to 20 minutes
later, she returned home and heard moaning sound of her
daughter, coming out from the room of her brother in law.
Initially, the mother of the victim girl thought that it was a
sound of a dog, but she opened the door of the room and saw
that the accused was pressing the mouth of her daughter and
he was trying to lay her on the bed. The mother of the victim
girl has stated that she immediately jumped up over the
accused and beat him and after that the accused fled. The
mother of the victim girl has stated that on the same day, she
had lodged an ejahar before police.

8. During cross examination, the mother of the victim girl
has stated that she did not know her own date of birth, nor did
she know the date of birth of her daughter.

9. The third witness is Laxmi Sonar. She is a neighbour of
the victim girl. She has stated in her evidence that on the day
of occurrence, at about 4 pm, she noticed that the mother of
the victim girl was crying and she told this witness that the
accused had committed rape upon her daughter.

10. There is nothing relevant in the cross examination
portion of the evidence of Laxmi Sonar.

11. The witness Smti Ranjumoni Gohain has stated in her
evidence that on the day of occurrence, she had noticed that
there was a commotion in the house of the victim girl and also
noticed that some police personnel were present there.
Therefore, she had gone to the house of the victim girl,
accompanied by her sister Mamoni Gohain. Ranjumoni Gohain
has stated that when she arrived at the house of the victim
girl, she saw that the brother of the accused Romesh Tanti was
beating the mother of the victim girl. According to Ranjumoni
Gohain, she was told by the mother of the victim girl that her
daughter was detained in a room by the accused Romesh
Tanti. She has stated in her evidence that in her presence, the
mother of the victim girl had asked her daughter as to how the
incident took place and to that the victim girl told her mother
that while she was watching T.V. in the house, she was carried
away by the accused to the house of her uncle.

12. The Police Investigating Officer Kuladhar Konwar spoke
about the investigation.

13. Here in this case, the Dr. Nirja Saikia is the medical
officer, who had examined the victim girl during the period of
investigation. She has stated in her evidence that the victim
girl did not give consent for examination of her private parts.
Therefore, she had to physically examine her. She has stated
in her evidence that as per radiological report, her age was
between 13 to 15 years.

14. On scrupulous perusal of the prosecution evidences, |
find that the accused has never disputed or challenged the
fact that the victim was aged between 13 to 15 years on the
day of occurrence.

L5. The birth certificate of the victim girl has been
exhibited as Ext. 1 and in that it is stated that the victim girl
was born on 05/06/2009. Therefore, it is proved beyond all
reasonable doubts that on the day of occurrence, the victim
girl was below 18 years of age.

16. So far as the evidences of the victim and her mother is
concerned, these two witnesses have been extensively cross
examined by the defence counsel. Inspite of that | could not
find any discrepancies and contradictions in their evidences. |
find that the evidences of these two witnesses have inspired
confidence.

17. These two witnesses are found to be reliable and
trustworthy. In this case, the ejahar was lodged immediately
after the occurrence. There was no delay in lodging the ejahar.
The accused has not pleaded any enmity with these two
witnesses. | do not see any reason to disbelieve these two
witnesses. Under the circumstances, the offence of sexual
harassment meted out to the victim girl is proved beyond all
reasonable doubts against the accused Romesh Tanti.

ORDER

18. In the result, the accused Romesh Tanti is found guilty
and accordingly he is convicted u/s 12 of the POCSO Act.

SENTENCE

19. The convict Romesh Tanti is guilty of committing
sexual harassment upon a child. The children are always
vulnerable to sexual assault, as they are defenceless. This is
the reason why our Parliament has enacted the POCSO Act to
deal with the peodophiles.

20. | have heard the convict in the matter of sentence. He
still denied his involvement in the instant case. | do not find
any mitigating circumstances in his favour. Thus, considering
all the relevant facts relating to the convict, | hereby sentence
to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment of 6 (Six) months. He is
also sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/- (Rupees Five
Thousand Only) and in default of payment of the fine, he shall
undergo another period of imprisonment of 1 (one) month.
The period of detention already undergone by the convict in
custody shall be set off against the substantive sentence. The
fine if paid, shall be given to the victim girl accordingly.

COMPENSATION

21. Law has mandated that victims of a crime must be
compensated in monetary terms. Here the victim girl must
have undergone mental trauma, because of the sexual assault
carried on upon her by the convict. Therefore, | hereby direct
that an amount of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand Only)
Shall be paid to the victim girl for her rehabilitation. The
compensation money shall be paid by the District Legal
Service Authority, Tinsukia. | hope the sentence and
compensation awarded in the instant case is sufficient to
reach the ends of justice.

22. A free copy of the judgment be given to the convict
immediately. Another copy of the judgment shall be forwarded
to the Ld. Deputy Commissioner, Tinsukia, under the the
provision of section 365 of the Cr.PC. A copy of the judgment
Shall also be forwarded to the District Legal Service Authority,
Tinsukia.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
10th day of January, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge

Tinsukia
Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Smti Sita Yadav

2. PW2 - Smti Neha Yadav

3. PW3 - Smti Laxmi Sonar

4. PW4 - Dr. Nirja Saikia

5. PW5 - Smti Ranjumoni Gohain
6. PW6 - Sri Kuladhar Konwar, S.1

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1- Birth certificate of victim
2. Ext. 2- Statement of Neha Yadav
3 Ext. 3- Medical report

4. Ext.4 - Ejahar

5 Ext. 5 - Sketch map

6 Ext. 6 - Charge sheet

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
