IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaiji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 29 (DH)/ 2017.
( U/S 366/34/376 (D) of IPC R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act.)

The State of Assam

- Versus —
1. Shri Nibash Rajbonshi
S/O Subal Rajbonshi,
Vill. Gourangapur,
P.S. Silapathar,
Dist.- Dhemaji.
2. Shri Dulu Barman,
S/O Surya Barman,
R/O Adi-Pathar,
P.S. Silapathar,
Dist.- Dhemaji.
3. Shri Babul Arya,
S/O Lt. Meghnath Arya,
P.S. Silapathar,

ERE CS ei | wrist Accused Persons
Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla, Public Prosecutor su... sees, For the State

Shri K.C. Sonowal, Advocate ln eee For the Accused

Date of prosecution evidence : 03-12-2018
rN

Judge:

No

Date of argument : 07-12-2018.

Date of Judgment : 07-12-2018.
JUDGMENT
‘; The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 10-02-2017

complainant-Shri Dipak Barman lodged an ejahar with Silapathar Police
Station alleging interalia that on 08-02-2017 in the evening while his
(complainant’s) daughter -Smti ‘X’ ( name is withheld) was coming to the
field to release the cows from tethering , then accused-Nibash Rajbonshi and
Dulu Barman kidnapped/abducted her from the field by gagging her mouth
and took her to the house of accused-Babul Arya at village-Gourangapur. It is
also alleged in the ejahar that the accused Nibash Barman committed rape on
his (complainant) daughter the whole night. Further, it is stated in the ejahar
that on the next day, the victim girl was recovered from the house of

accused-Babul Arya of Gourangapur Village.

2 On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused persons u/s 355 (A)/342/376 of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of
the POCSO Act.

a On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 366/376 D/34 of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of
POCSO Act and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not
guilty. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined three witnesses.
At the closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused persons
were recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the

defence adduced no evidence in support of their case.
4. Point for determination :

(1) That, on 8-2-2017 in the evening at Village-Adi-Pathar under
Silapathar Police Station, you ( accused Nibash Rajbonshi and Dulu
Barman) in furtherance of common intention of both, kidnapped/
abducted Smti *X’, a minor girl aged about 14 years, with intent that
she might be compelled to marry you (accused-Nibash Rajbonshi)
against her will, or that she might be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s
366/34 of IPC.

(2) That, you all on the same day at village-Gourangapur
committed rape on Smti ‘X’, , a minor girl aged about 14 years, having
sexual intercourse against her will and consent and thereby you

committed an offence punishable u/s 376 D of IPC.

(3) That, you all on the same day at village-Gourangapur
committed penetrative sexual assault on Smti ‘X’ and thereby you
committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

3 I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

6. PW1 Smti ‘Xx’ stated that the Complainant is her father. She
knows the accused persons. The occurrence took place about 1 1% years
back. She went to the field to fetch cow. While returning from the field she
met accused Nibash Rajbongshi and Dulu Barman on the way and she went
to Babul Arya’s house. At Babul Arya’s house she stayed for the night as
Nibbash proposed to marry her and asked me to discuss the matter with her
family. However, she refused to marry him and she informed her parents and

they came and took me back. Though the accused persons did not abuse her
SP

ecial Judg®

pnemall.

physically they forced her to stay for the night and hence her father lodged

complaint against the accused.

In cross- examination PW1 stated that after filing of the
complaint Nibash came to their house and told her parents that he had no
bad intention and he wanted to marry her. However, he realized his mistake
and felt sorry and apologized for his mistake. Accordingly, her parents
decided not to proceed with the complaint against the accused persons. The

accused did not do any physical harm to her

i PW2 Shri Dipak Barman stated that he is the complainant. He
knows the accused persons. Victim is his daughter. The occurrence took
place about 1 2 years back. His daughter went to the field to fetch cow.
While returning from the field she met accused Nibash Rajbongshi and Dulu
Barman on the way and she went to Babul Arya’s house. At Babul Arya’s
house she stayed for the night as Nibbash proposed to marry her and asked
her to discuss the matter with parents. However, she refused to marry him
and informed him and he brought her back home. Though the accused
persons did not abuse her physically they forced her to stay for the night and
hence he lodged complaint against the accused. Ext.1 is ejajhar. He put his

thumb impression in Ext.1.

In cross- examination PW2 stated that after filing of the
complaint Nibash came to their house and told him that he had no bad
intention and he wanted to marry his daughter. However, he realized his
mistake and felt sorry and apologized for his mistake. Accordingly, he decided
not to proceed with the complaint against the accused. On being asked his
daughter told him that accused did not do any physical harm to her. He has

no objection if the accused persons are acquitted in this case.

8. PW3 Smti Malati Barman stated that the complainant is her
husband. She know the accused persons. Victim is her daughter. The
\G
Bg

gcia! Judes
piremai.

in

occurrence took place about 1 2 years back. Her daughter went to the field
to fetch cow. While returning from the field she met accused Nibash
Rajbongshi and Dulu Barman on the way and she went to Babul Arya’s
house. At Babul Arya’s house she stayed for the night as Nibbash proposed to
marry her and asked her to discuss the matter with parents. However, she
refused to marry him and informed us and they brought her back home.
Though the accused persons did not abuse her physically they forced her to
stay for the night and hence her husband lodged complaint against the

accused.

In cross- examination PW3 stated that after filing of the
complaint Nibash came to their house and told us that he had no bad
intention and he wanted to marry her daughter. However, he realized his
mistake and felt sorry and apologized for his mistake. Accordingly, they
decided not to proceed with the complaint against the accused. On being
asked her daughter told them that accused did not do any physical harm to
her. She has no objection if the accused persons are acquitted in this case.

Appreciation of evidence :

9. Prosecution examined the victim as PW1. In her evidence she
has stated that on the date of occurrence while she was going to college she
met the accused Nibash and Dulu on the road and along with them she went
to the house of Babul. At the house of Babul, Nibash proposed her to marry
and she stayed in the house of Babul for the night. During conversation she
let them know that she was not going to marry and accordingly, she informed
her parents and then she was brought back home. The victim also stated that
the accused persons had not misbehaved or abused her physically. Further
she stated that they did not force her to stay. However her parents were
worried and hence they lodged complaint against the accused. In cross-

examination she stated that the accused persons had no bad intention and he
also apologized for his action and hence she is not willing to proceed against
the accused persons. Prosecution examined the father and mother of the
victim as PW2 and PW3. They have also deposed in similar line as PW1. In
their cross examination they stated that they have no objection if the accused
persons are acquitted in this case.

10. Considering all the facts and circumstances and the materials
available on record I find that prosecution is not willing to proceed against
the accused persons as the victim has not implicated the accused persons as

to their involvement in the allege commission of offences.

Hi, In view of the above I find that prosecution has failed to prove
the charges u/s 366/376 IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act against the
accused persons.

ORDER:

12. In the result I find the accused persons not guilty under the
aforesaid offences. Accordingly, they are acquitted.

3. Set them at liberty forthwith.

14. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.

15. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 7" day
of December / 2018.

4m"

( S. Das )

Speci Jia
Rs se i.
