1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
POCSO Case No. 07/2016

corresponding to GR Case No. 382/2016 &
Dokmoka Police Station Case No. 31/2016
Under sections 363/34 of the IPC/ 6 of the
POCSO Act.

State of Assam

Versus
Shri Dingjon Timung @ Ranjan Timung
and others

Name of informant/complainant:
Shri Hemari Kro
Son of Sri Habe Kro
Village: Men Taro Gaon, Bhelughat
P.S: Dokmoka
District: Karbi Anglong

Name of the accused persons facing trial:
1. Shri Dingjon Timung alias Ranjan

Timung
S/O Late Longsing Timung
Village: Kuthepi West Karbi Anglong
P.S: Baithalangso
District: Karbi Anglong
2. Shri Rupson Rongphar
S/O Shri Babu Rongphar
Village: Mentaro Gaon, Bhelughat
P.S: Dokmoka
District: Kari Anglong

Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution : Mr D.K. Deka, Public Prosecutor.
2|Page

For the defence : Mr R. S. Hanse.
Argument heard on : 11.07.2019.
Judgment delivered on : 19.07.2019/ 31.07.2019

JUDGMENT

Ls It is a case of kidnapping and aggravated
penetrative sexual assault alleged to have been
committed by the accused persons.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on
05.05.2016, the informant-Shri Hemari Kro lodged a
written ejahar with Dokmoka Police Station stating
inter alia that on the night of 21.04.2016, the
accused-Shri Ranjan Timung alias Dingjon Timung
abducted his victim daughter who was a student of
class-VIl from their residence. The accused was
accompanied by his friends, Shri Robising Rongphar
and Shri Rupson Rongphar. From that date, his
daughter was kept in unknown place and he could
not make contact with his victim daughter. On
25.04.2016, the accused-Ranjan Timung was caught
by the villagers and handed over to police. On receipt
of the written ejahar, O/C of Dokmoka Police Station
registered a criminal case vide Dokmoka Police
Station Case No. 31/2016 under section 366-A/376(2)
(i) of IPC read with section 8 of the POCSO Act and
started investigation. On completion of investigation,
charge-sheet was submitted under the registered
sections of law against the accused persons Dingjon
Timung @ Ranjan Timung, Sri Rupson Rongphar and
Rabi Sing Rongphar showing the accused Rabi Sing
Rongphar as absconder. Trial was started after split of
the case of the accused Rabi Sing Rongphar. Hence
3|Page

the prosecution case has come against the accused
persons facing trial.

3 On completion of appearance of accused
persons facing trial, copy was furnished to them.
Having gone through the submissions duly advanced
by the learned lawyers of both sides as well as case
diary, | found that there was ground for presuming
that the accused persons facing trial committed the
offence under sections 363/34 of IPC and that the
accused Dingjon Timung @ Ranjan committed the
offence section 6 of the POCSO Act and accordingly
the charges were framed. The particulars of the
charged offence was duly read over and explained to
the accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried.

4. During trial the prosecution has examined as
many as 8 (eight) witnesses. Statements of accused
persons under section 313 of CrPC were recorded.
Defence has examined none. Plea of defence is of
total denial.

5. Points for determination are :

) Whether both the accused persons. on
21.04.2016 at night at Mentaro Gaon under
Dokmoka Police Station in furtherance of their
common intention kidnapped the victim having
age of 14 years without the consent of her
lawful guardianship and that they thereby
committed an _ offence punishable under
section 363/34 of the IPC?
4|Page

(ii) Whether the accused, Shri Dingjon Timung
alias Ranjan Timung from 21.04.2016 to
24.04.2016 at nights and at the same place
caused penetrative sexual assault upon the
victim having age of 14 years and that he
thereby committed the offence punishable
under section 6 of the POCSO Act?

6. Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal
arguments advanced by the learned counsels of both
sides as well as evidence on record. Learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the accused persons has
contended that the prosecution has miserably failed
to prove its case against the accused persons beyond
all reasonable doubts. On the other hand, the learned
Public Prosecutor, Mr D.K. Deka _ refuting the
aforesaid submission has submitted that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case
against the accused persons beyond all reasonable
doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions, it
would be appropriate to give a glance at evidence
record.

7. PW-1 is Hemari Kro who is the informant. He has
stated in his deposition that he knows the accused
persons and the victim is his daughter. The
occurrence took place about three years ago. On the
night of occurrence, Robising Rongphar forcibly
abducted his victim daughter from his house. At that
time, as they were ill, they could not do anything.
Thereafter, the accused-Rabi Sing Rongphar handed
over the victim girl to accused, Ranjan Timung. He
5|Page

does not know the address of the accused, Ranjan.
After one week of the occurrence, their village boys
apprehended the accused and recovered the victim
girl. The victim girl and the accused were recovered
from the house of the accused, Rupson. At the time
of occurrence, the victim girl was 14 years old and
she was reading in class-VIl at Dokmoka School.
Police got the victim girl medically examined and
recorded her statement in the Court. Ext.1 is the
ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his signature.

8. PW-2 is the victim who has deposed in her
testimony that the informant is his father. She knows
the accused, Ranjan Timung alias Dingjong Timung
and Rupson Rongphar. At the time of her deposition,
she was 16 years old. In a night, the accused-Robi
Sing Rongphar and Dingjong Timung came to their
house. At that time, her parents and sister were in
the house. They served meal to them as they were
guest and at about 12 midnight, the accused persons
went back from their house. On that night at about 1
AM, the accused-Dingjong Timung again came to
their house. In fear, she went to the house of her
sister. As he did not find her, he went back. She came
to know that on the next day morning, the accused
came to their house and he left their house as he did
not find her. Since then, the accused-Dingjong
Timung followed her and used to threaten that if she
does not elope with him, he would kill her parents.
Being frightened, she came along with the accused,
Dingjong Timung. He kept her in the house of
Rupson Rongphar for one night. At that time, neither
the accused-Dingjon Timung nor Rupson did physical
contact with her. In the night, her brother, Robison
6|Page

Rongpi came to the house Rupson Rongphar and
assaulted the accused, Dingjong Timung. Then her
brother and villagers brought the accused, Dingjong
Timung to Dokmoka Police Station. Police got her
medically examined and her statement recorded.
Ext.2 is her statement and Ext.2(1), 2(2), 2(3), 2(4)
and 2(5) are her signatures.

9. PW-3 is Dr Karik Kropi who has deposed in her
testimony that on 05.5.2016 while she was attached
at Diphu Civil Hospital she examined the victim in
connection with Dokmoka PS Case 31 of 2016. On
examination, she found hymen absent. As per X-ray
report, her age was below 18 years and spermatozoa
was not found. According to her opinion, the alleged
history of sexual intercourse was present. No external
injury mark was detected. Ext.3 is the medical report
and Ext.3(1) is her signature.

10. PW-4 is Shri Gedion Rongphar who has stated in
his evidence that he knows the informant and the
victim. He also knows the accused persons except
the accused, Denja Timung. The incident occurred
about three years back. At the time of occurrence,
police recorded the statement of the mother of the
victim, Mirbon. But as the mother of Mirbon did not
know Assamese language, he translated her version
into Assamese. At that time, he came to know that it

was an incident relating to girl.

11. | PW-5 is Shri Kensing Rongphar who has stated in
his evidence that he knows the informant, the
accused persons and the victim girl. At the time of
incident, he was VDP Secretary and his village people
7|Page

informed him that the accused, Dingjong Timung in
the name of extremist collected money in the village
and showing love affair with the victim, he made
physical contact illegally with her. He was informed
by the village boys that they apprehended the
accused Dingjong Timung alias Ranjan and handed
him over to Army personnel. Knowing — this
information, he went to the police station and
informed the matter of apprehension and handing
over the accused to Army because he presumed that
as the accused Dingjong Timung was a member of
extremist group, people of their village might be
harassed by the extremists. Later, the villagers also
apprehended the other accused person facing trial.

12. | PW-6 is Shri Phibison Kro who has deposed that
he knows the informant, accused-Rupson Rongphar
and other accused persons along with the victim girl.
This incident took place in the year 2016. At the time
of occurrence, the accused, Dingjong Timung alias
Ranjan created panic by illegally collecting money in
the name of extremist in Bheloghat area. By that
time, the said accused in pretext of love affair with
the victim forcibly took her and kept in a house of
other person of their village. He also heard that the
accused, Dingjan raped the victim. Thereafter, the
villagers apprehended the accused Dingjan and
handed over him to the Army. Police brought the
accused from the custody of the Army. He could not
say as to why the other accused Rupson was arrested
by the police.

13. PW-7 is Shri Mohon Nath who at the time of
occurrence was working as an ASI at Dokmoka Police
8|Page

Station. On receipt of the FIR from the informant, the
then O/C endorsed him to investigate the case.
During his investigation, he recorded the statements
of the victim, her mother and the informant. He got
the victim medically examined and recorded her
statement in Diphu Court. As the accused persons
were already in jail, he made them shown-arrest and
prayed for police custody in the Court. The Court
accorded his prayer. During investigation, he went to
the place of occurrence and recorded the statements
of the witnesses available there. He drew a sketch
map. Ext.4 is the sketch map and Ext.4(1) is his
signature. On completion of his investigation, he
found sufficient materials under sections 366-
A/376(2)(i) of IPC and 8 of the POCSO Act against the
accused persons and accordingly, he submitted
charge-sheet under the said sections of law against
them showing the accused Robising absconder. Ext.5
is the charge-sheet and Ext.5(1) is his signature.

14.  PW-8 is Mrs Basapi Singnarpi who has deposed
in his deposition that the informant is her husband
and the victim is her daughter. She also knows the
accused persons. She cannot recollect the date of the
occurrence as she was ill at that time. As she was
suffering from illness, she was unable to say as to
who took the victim, although she could learn that
somebody took her victim daughter. After two days of

the occurrence, the victim girl was recovered.

15. — First let us discuss whether the victim was child
at the time of occurrence. The “child” is defined in
the section 2(d) of the POCSO Act. According to the
said section, a person who has not completed 18
9|Page

years is a child. PW-7 is the investigating officer
whose evidence is totally silent that any documents
regarding proof of age of the victim. PW-3 is the
medical officer who has stated in her testimony that
on examination of the victim on 05.05.2016 she
found the victim to be below 18 years. The defence
has not disputed the said evidence of PW-3 during

cross-examining her.

16. PW-1 is the father of the victim. According to
him at the time of occurrence the victim was 14
years old and was reading in class VIII. PW-2 is the
victim whose evidence shows that at the time of
occurrence she was 14 years old. As there is a
corroborative evidence that at the time of occurrence
the victim was 14 years old and the defence has not
disputed the age of the victim as stated above during
their cross examination | am convinced to hold that
at the time of occurrence the victim was 14/15 years
old. According to PW-1 on the night of occurrence
accused Rabi Sing Rongphar came to their house and
forcibly took away the victim from their house. Later
on the accused Rabi Sing Rongphar handed over the
victim to the accused Ranjan Timung @ Dingjan
Timung. PW-4 is the person who helped the Police in
translating the statement given by the informant in
Karbi language into Assamese. PW-5 is the VDP
Secretary who has stated that the villagers informed
him that the accused Dingjan Timung in pretext of
having love affairs with the victim make foul work
with her. PW-6 stated that he heard that the accused
in pretext of having love affairs with the victim
enticed away her from their house and kept in the
house of one person and that he raped her. PW-8 is
10|Page

the mother of the victim whose evidence is silent that
the accused persons took away the victim.

17. The facts of the case remains that the victim
was under custody of the accused persons for few
days and as such she is considered to be a most vital
and material witness. Her evidence clearly shows
that the accused persons Dingjan Timung and Rabi
Sing Rongphar came to their house on a night and
stayed there as a guest. Since then the accused
Dingjan Timung started harassing and threatening
her. The accused Dingjan Timung threatened her that
if she was not ready to flee away with him he would
kill her parents. Out of fear she fled away with the
accused Dingjan Timung. The accused Dingjan
Timung kept her in the house of the accused Rupson
Rongphar. Her evidence also shows that on the same
night her brother assaulted the accused persons
facing trial and later on she was recovered there
from. | find no way to disbelieve the evidence of PW-1
and PW-2 regarding kidnapped of the victim marked
as PW-2.

18. Evidence of the victim clearly shows that the
accused persons facing trial did not commit any
sexual assault or harassment towards the victim. On
06.05.2016 the accused persons Rupson Rongphar
and Dingjam Timung @ Ranjan Timung’ were
forwarded to the Judicial Custody and the accused
Rupson Rongphar was released on. bail on
20.09.2017.

ORDER
11|Page

19. In the result, | find the accused persons Sri
Rupson Rongphar and Sri Dingjam Timung @ Ranjan
Timung guilty under section 363 IPC and accordingly
they are convicted.

20. On the point of sentence the accused person is
heard and to that effect his statement is recorded.
Both of the accused persons have prayed for leniency
in sentencing them. There is no evidence on record
showing that the accused persons were previously
convicted by the Court of Law. Taking all aspects into
consideration, | do hereby Order them to suffer RI of
1 year and to pay fine of Rs. 2000/- i/d SI for 2
months each. Set off their earlier detention period.
Let certified copies of the Judgment and Order be
supplied to the accused persons at free of cost. Also
send a copy of the Judgment to the learned District
Magistrate, Karbi Anglong, Diphu in terms of the
section 365 of the CrPC.

21. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

22. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on
this 31% July, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed,
AJS)
Special Judge Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi
Anglong,

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Shri Hemari Kro
12|Page

PW2- Victim

PW3- Dr Karik Kropi

PW4- Shri Gedion Rongphar
PW5- Shri Kensing Rongphar
PW6- Shri Phibison Kro
PW7- Shri Mohon Nath

PW8- Mrs Basapi Singnarpi

Defence Witnesses: Nil

Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Statement of the victim
Ext.3- Medical report

Ext.4- Sketch map

Ext.5- Charge Sheet

Defence Exhibited: Nil

Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam
