1

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 48 OF 2016

Under Section 376 I.P.C R/W Section 4 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012

Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-Versus-

Jamal Badsha ...... Accused.
APPEARANCE

For the Prosecution : Mr. Lolit Ch. Nath, learned PP.

For the accused : Abdul Mannan, learned Advocate.

Evidence recorded on : 14.11.2017 & 25.06.2018

Argument heard on : 25.06.2018,

Judgment delivered on : 25.06.2018.

} U D G M _ E N T

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 15.01.2015 at about
3:00 PM, while the victim, aged about 6 years, was playing in the field in
back side of their house, accused Jamal Badsha took her to his house and
committed rape on her. While the victim started shouting, the accused
person fled away. The victim reported the matter to her mother.
Accordingly her mother Hajera Khatun lodged the FIR on 27.01.2015.

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
2

investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against accused Jamal Badsha under section 376(2)(i)IPC R/W
section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

3. The accused person appeared before this court, copies were
furnished to them and after hearing both the parties charge was framed
against accused Jamal Badsha under section 376 I|.P.C read with section 4
of POCSO Act. Charge was read over and clearly explained to the accused
person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.

4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined as many
as 4(four) witnesses including the medical officer. Examination of the
accused person under section 313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.

5. Points for determination:-

Whether the accused person on 15.01.2015 at 3:00 PM at
Pathimari, under Kasumara PS in Barpeta district, committed rape on
Halima Khatun, aged about 6 years, daughter of the informant, Hajera

Khatun, and committed penetrative sexual intercourse on her ?

Discussion, decision and reasons thereof

 

6. The allegation as narrated in the FIR is that on 15.01.2015 at
3:00 PM, the accused person committed rape on the victim. The FIR was
lodged on 27.01.2015 and the victim was examined by the M.O. On
28.01.2015. The M.O., who is examined as PWI1, has opined that----
“(1) Age of the victim is above 6(Six) and below 8(Eight) years. (2) There
is no mark of any violence on her body parts. (3) There is no sign of
recent sexual intercourse,however hymen is torn out. In cross
examination, she has stated that she did not find any injury mark on the
victim.

7. The informant Hajera Khatun is examined as PW2. She has
stated that the occurrence took place about 3 years ago. At that time, the
3

age of the victim was 6 years. About 2:00/3:00 PM, the victim had gone to
the field in search of 'Kesar'. Then the accused rebuked her and relating to
that a quarrel took place in between her and the accused person. Then
she lodged the FIR.

In her cross examination, she has stated that she lodged

the FIR after 20 days of the occurrence. After 25 days of the occurrence,
the victim was examined by M.O. and she was produced before the
Magistrate. The accused also had gone to the field in search of ‘Kesar’.
The accused did not do any illicit act with the victim. She does not know
who wrote the FIR. So, she does not know what was written in the FIR. She
only put her signature. The FIR was lodged due to some
misunderstanding.
8. One Mofida Khatun as PW3 has deposed that on the date
of occurrence, the victim and the accused had gone to the paddy field in
search of 'Kesar'. The accused rebuked the victim and then the victim
returned home weeping and informed her mother and then her mother
lodged the case.

In cross examination, she has stated that she did not see

the occurrence.
9. The victim as PW4 has deposed that about 3 years ago, one
day she had gone alongwith the accused to the paddy field in search of
‘Kesar’. Then the accused rebuked her. She returned home weeping and
reported her mother. Then her mother filed the case. She was produced
before the Magistrate and also before the Medical Officer for her
examination.

In cross examination, she has stated that the accused did
not do any illicit act with her. She made the statement before the
Magistrate as tutored by the police. Due to misunderstanding, her mother
lodged the case.

10. From the above discussions of the evidences of the
prosecution witnesses, it is found that admittedly at the time of
4

occurrence, the victim was minor. But the allegation, which is narrated in
the FIR, is not supported either by the informant or by the victim. Both of
them have clearly stated that at the time of occurrence, the victim had
gone to the paddy field alongwith the accused in search of ‘Kesar’. Then
the accused person rebuked her and she returned home weeping. The
victim has clearly stated that the accused did not do any illicit act with
her.

11. Under the above facts and circumstances, it is clear that the
prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of the accused person for
any offence either under section 376 I.P.C or under section 4 of POCSO
Act, 2012. Therefore the accused person is acquitted and set at liberty.
12. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
extended for another period of six months from the date of this judgment
under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

13. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365
Cr.P.C.

14. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 25th day
of June, 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta.
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Medical Officer Dr. Bharati Das,
P.W.2 = Hajera Khatun, the informant,
P.W.3 = Mofida Khatun,

P.W.4 = Halima Khatun, the victim.

(B) Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1 = Medical Report,

Ext.1(1) = Signature of Dr. Bharati Das,
Ext.2 = Ejahar,

Ext.2(1) = Signature of Hajera Khatun.

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.

Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
