1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present : Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Special Case No. 20/2017 corresponding to GR Case
No.598/2017 & Khatkhati Police Station Case No.
88/2017

Under Sections 363 of IPC and 6 of the POCSO Act

State of Assam
Versus
Md Jamir Uddin

Name of informant/complainant:
Mustt Toslima Begum
W/o Rafiqul Islam
Village: Balijan Khan Bosti
P.S : Khatkhati
District: Karbi Anglong.

Name of the accused person facing trial:
Md Jamir Uddin
S/O Md Samar Uddin
Vill-Bowalguri
PS: Laharighat
District-Morigaon.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defense : Rashmi Bharali
Argument heard on : 17.12.2018.

Judgment pronounced & delivered on: 19.12.2018.
2|Page

1.

JUDGMENT

It is a case of kidnapping and aggravated penetrative
sexual assault alleged to have been committed by the

accused person.

The prosecution case in brief is that on 02.8.2017, the
informant-Mustt Taslima Begum lodged an ejahar at
Khatkhati Police Station stating inter alia that on 01.8.2017
at about 8 AM, her daughter-Miss Sultana Begum aged
about 12 years went to school. She could learn from eye
witnesses that the accused boarded her daughter in an
auto- rickshaw and moved towards Dimapur from Balijan.
She searched all probable places, but failed to locate her
whereabouts. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C, Khatkhati
Police Station registered a case vides Police Station Case
No.88 of 2017 U/S 363 of IPC. On completion of
investigation, I.0. submitted the charge-sheet U/S 363 of
IPC R/W Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused,

Md Jamir Uddin. Hence the prosecution has come up.

On completion of appearance of the accused person, copy
was furnished to him. Having very carefully gone through
submissions of learned lawyers of both sides as well as case
diary, this Court found there was ground for presuming that
the accused person committed the offenses under sections
363 of the IPC / 6 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, the
charges were framed. The particular of the offences
charged were duly read over and explained to the accused
person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

During trial, Prosecution side has examined as many

as 12(twelve) witnesses including the complainant and
3|Page

alleged victim. Statement of the accused was recorded
under section 313 of Cr.P.C. Defense declined to adduce

evidence. Plea of defense is of total denial.

5. Points for determination are:

(i)Whether the accused person on 01.8.2017 at about 8
AM at Balijan Khan Basti under Khatkhati Police Station
kidnapped Miss Sultana Begum aged 12 years and enticed
her out of keeping of the lawful guardianship without his
consent and that he thereby committed an offense
punishable U/S 363 of IPC ?

(ii)Whether the accused person on the same date, time
and place caused aggravated penetrative sexual assault to
Miss Sultana Begum aged 12 years and that he thereby
committed an offense punishable U/S 6 of the POCSO Act

6. Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through verbal arguments
advanced by the learned counsels of both sides as well as
evidence on record. At the very outset, the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the accused person has contended
that the prosecution has miserably failed doubts. On the
other hand, the learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka
refuting the aforesaid submission has submitted that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case against
the accused person beyond all reasonable doubts. Prior to
rebutting the rival submissions, it would be appropriate to

give a glance at evidence record.
4|Page

Z.

PW-1 is Mustt Taslima Begum who is the informant of
this case. She has stated in her evidence that the victim is
her daughter. She knows the accused person. The incident
occurred on 03.8.2017. On the day of occurrence at about 7
AM, the alleged victim went to school, but as she did not
come in time from school, she started searching her.
Thereafter, she lodged the ejahar at police Station. She
suspected that the accused might have lured her daughter
away and presuming this, she collected the home address of
the accused from his relatives. She along with her brother-
in-law went to the house of the accused located at Goalguri
of Laharijan and found the accused and her daughter there
after one month. She insisted both of them on coming to her
house back, but they did not come. After nine months of the
occurrence, she furnished the address of the accused person
to Khatkhati Police. Later, police recovered the victim along
with the accused person and took them to the police station.
At the time of occurrence, the victim was 13(thirteen) years
old. Police got her daughter medically examined at Diphu
Govt. Hospital and her statement recorded in the Court.
Police seized the birth certificate of the victim. She put her
signature in the seizure list. After return of the victim, on
being asked she told her that she eloped with the accused
person as per her will and both of them lived as husband

and wife.

PW-2 is Miss Sultana Begum who has deposed that the
informant is her mother. She knows the accused person.
The incident took place on 01.8.2017. On the day of
occurrence at 7 PM, she went to school and on the way she
boarded in an auto-rickshaw with the accused and left for
Khatkhati. Then the accused took her to a place named

Bobalguri of Morigaon by a bus and kept her in his house.
5|Page

10.

11.

After three days, their marriage was solemnized. She started
living with the accused as husband and wife. At the time of
occurrence, her age was 18(eighteen) years and she was
reading in Class-VI. After nine months of the occurrence,
police recovered her and brought her to Mairabari Police
Station along with the accused. Thereafter, on the night
itself, she was taken to Diphu Police Station. Police got her
medically examined and her statement recorded. Ext.1 is her
statement and Ext.1(1), 1(2), 1(3) and 1(4) are her

signatures.

PW-3 is Md Nasir Uddin and PW-4, Md Nazrul Islam are
hearsay witnesses. They know the informant, the accused
and the victim. They only heard that somebody eloped the
daughter of the informant. Later, they could know that the

accused had lured the victim away.

PW-5 is Md Rubul Hussain who has deposed that he
knows the informant, the accused and the victim. The
incident occurred in the month of August, 2017. On the day
of occurrence at about 8 AM while he was going out for his
regular work, he noticed a girl being dressed by school
uniform going with a boy in an auto-rickshaw. As he found
the informant searching her daughter, he informed the said
fact to her. He does not know later episode of the case.

According to him, the girl was about 12/13 years old.

PW-6 is Md Hussain Ali who is a hearsay witness. He has
stated in his evidence that he could learn the fact of
elopement of a girl by the accused from the other people.

He knows the informant and the victim since long.
6|Page

12.

13:

14.

PW-7 is Md Safiqul Islam who is also hearsay witness. He
has stated in his testimony that on 01.8.2017 in the evening,
he heard that the accused eloped the victim away. He knows
the informant, accused and the victim. He further told that

at the time of occurrence, the victim was 13/14 years old.

PW-8 is Shri Mwblik Brahma who is one of the
investigating officers of this case. He has deposed in his
testimony that prior to him, there were two investigating
officers who had already investigated the case. At the time
of his investigation, he was working as SI at Rongbongway
Police Station and as per instruction of the Sub-Divisional
Police Officer, Bokajan, he took the charge of investigation.
From perusal of the case diary, he came to know that SI
Hira Gogoi drew up the sketch map. Ext.2 is the ejahar and
Ex.2(1) is the signature of the then O/C of Khatkhati PS.
During the course of investigation, he went to Mairabari
Police Station of Morigoan district and brought the accused
and the victim to their police station. He arrested the
accused person and on completion of medical examination,
he forwarded the accused to the Court on 21.6.2018. On the
same day, he sent the victim to Diphu Civil Hospital for
medical examination. He prayed before the Court for
recording statement of the victim. He seized the birth
certificate of the victim. Ext.3 is the said seizure list. He
prayed before the Court to add Sec.4 of the POCSO Act.
Ext.4 is the said prayer and Ext.4(1) is his signature. On
completion of his investigation, he submitted charge-sheet
U/S 363 of IPC and U/S 4 of the POCSO Act. Ext.5 is the

charge-sheet and Ext.5(1) is his signature.

PW-9 is Dr Bimal Hanse who has deposed that on

22.6.2018 while he was working at Diphu Civil Hospital as M
7|Page

15.

16.

17.

& H.O.I, he examined Miss Sultana Begum for determination
of her age. On examination, he found her age below 16
years and between 14-15 years. Ext.6 is his medical report
and Ext.6(1) is his signature.

PW-10 is Shri Hira Gogoi, another investigating officer who
has deposed that on registration of the case, the O/C
concerned endorsed him to investigate case. During his
investigation, he visited the place of occurrence and
recorded the statements of the informant and other
witnesses. He prepared the sketch map. Ext.2 is the said

sketch map and Ext.2 (1) is his signature.

PW-11 is SI Joseph V. Kevom, in fact, did not do anything
as regards investigation. He made communication with the
O/C of Laharighat Police Station over phone searching
whereabouts of the accused and the victim. But he found
nothing positive from Laharighat Police Station. Later, he
again contacted the informant regarding any clue of their
stay. At that time, he was transferred to Bokajan Police
Station and as such, he handed over the case diary to the
O/C, Khatkhati Police Station.

PW-12 is Dr Karbon Teronpi who has stated that on
21.6.2018 while she was working as SDM&HO, she
examined Sultana Begum in connection with Khatkhati
Police Station Case No.88/2017. She further stated that the
alleged victim refused medical examination. Ext.7 is medical
report and Ext. 7(1) and Ext.7(2) are her signatures. She
opined that as per report of radiologist, the age of the victim
was 16 years(14-15) years. She claimed the radiologist’s
report 100 per cent genuine and it is done on the basis of X-

ray.
8|Page

18.

19.

Parents are normally right persons who can say exact age
of their children. For attracting the sections under which
charges were framed, the victim must be a child. “Child” is
defined in the section 2(d) of the POCSO Act. According to
the section 2 (d) of the POCSO Act, any person who is below
18 years is a child. According to PW-1 who is mother of the
victim, at the time of occurrence, she was 13 years old.
According to the victim at the time of occurrence she was
reading in class VI and was 18 years old. PW-3, PW- 5 and
PW-7 seem to be neighbourers of the informant who have
stated in his evidence that at the time of occurrence, victim
was 12-13 years old. PW-9 and PW-12 are medical officers
and according to them, at the victim was below 16 years.
Taking all aspects into consideration, I find that the victim
has deposed false out of love that at the time of occurrence,
she was 18 years. A student of class VI cannot be more than
16 years. Now I have come to conclusion that the victim was

purely child.

In the instant case victim is considered to be material
witness. Her evidence shows that in the morning of the day
of occurrence, she fled away with the accused person. The
accused took her to their house situated at Babalguri of
Morigaon and kept her there. After completion of their
marriage, she started living with the accused as husband
and wife. She was recovered from the house of the accused
person with help of Police from Moirabari police station after
9 months. There is no evidence on record showing that the
accused kept the victim in his house without consent of her
legal guardian. It is the established principle that minor
consent is no consent. Though there is evidence that the

victim fled away with the accused person on her sweet will
9|Page

20.

Zl.

22.

but it would be held that the accused took away the victim

from her legal guardian because the victim was minor.

The victim marked as PW-2 has herself stated in her
testimony that she was in the house of the accused person
for 9 (nine) months as husband and wife. PW-12 is the
medical officer before whom the victim was brought medical
examination in order to ascertaining whether she was
subjected to penetrative sexual assault but she refused to
go medical examination. The defence has not disputed the
evidence of the victim that she was in the house of the
accused person as husband and wife. Now it can be safely
held that physical relation between the accused and the

victim took place more than two times.

From the cross-examination of PW-1 who is the mother-
cum-informant of this case it is reflected that initially she
intended to withdraw the case if the accused and the victim
would come to her house. The POCSO Act does not allow
any minor female child to stay with a male person as
husband and wife though she or her guardian has no

objection.

It has been submitted by the learned lawyer appearing on
behalf of the accused person that the victim fled away with
the accused person on her sweet will and as such it does not
attract the sections 363 IPC/6 of the POCSO Act. Consent of
the minor girl is immaterial. Very object of POCSO Act is to
protect and prevent the children not to be abused. The Act
also aims at protecting childhood and youth of the children.
There is no medical evidence showing that the victim was
subject to sexual intercourse. However her evidence very

clearly shows that the accused made sexual intercourse with
10|Page

23.

24.

25.

her. There is no evidence on record showing that how many
times the accused made sexual intercourse with the victim.
Taking the discussions made above I feel hesitation to hold
that the accused committed aggravated penetrative sexual
assault towards victim. However it can be presumed safely
that the accused committed penetrative sexual towards
victim punishable under section 4 of the POCSO Act.

ORDER

In the result I find the accused guilty under section 363
IPC/4 of the POCSO Act and accordingly he is convicted.

On the point of sentence accused is heard and to that
effect his statement is recorded. Accused has prayed for
leniency in sentencing him as he is the only earning member
of his family consisting of his mother, wife and himself. It
has been submitted by the learned lawyer appearing on
behalf of the accused person that it is a fit case where
benefit laid down under Provision of the Probation of the
Offenders Act can be extended to the accused person.
Taking all aspects into consideration I do hereby order the
accused person to suffer RI of 6 months for the section 363
IPC and RI of 7 years and to pay fine of Rs. 1000/- i/d SI of
2 months for the section 4 of the POCSO Act. Both sections
will run concurrently. Set off the earlier detention period. Let
a certified copy of this Judgment and Order be supplied to

the accused person at free of cost.

It is evident that mother of the victim who is informant of
this case is not financially sound. For re-habilitation of the
victim in my considered opinion she needs financial

assistant. Hence I recommend compensation under the
11|Page

Victim Compensation Scheme as laid down under section
357 A of the CrPC to be awarded to the victim through her
informant mother by the DLSA, Diphu, Karbi Anglong after
due inquiry. In the mean time a interim compensation of Rs.
10000/- to be awarded to the victim through her informant
mother. DLSA Karbi Anglong shall take necessary steps.

Inform accordingly.

26. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this 19%

December, 2018 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Special Judge, Special Judge
Karbi Anglong, Diphu Karbi Anglong, Diphu
Appendix

Prosecution Witnesses.
PW-1 Smt. Taslima Begum
PW-2 is victim

PW-3 is Md. Nasiruddin
PW-4 is Md. Nazurul Hussain
PW-5 is Md. Rubul Hussain
PW-6 is Md. Hussain Ali
PW-7 is Md. Sofiqul Islam
PW-8 is M. Brahama

PW-9 is Dr. Bimal Hanse
PW-10 is Hira Gogoi

PW-11 is Joseph b Kebom
PW-12 is Dr. Kabon Teronpi
Prosecution Exhibited:
Ext-1 is statement of the victim
Ext-2 is Ejahar
12|Page

Ext-2 A is sketch map of PO
Ext-3 is seizure list

Ext-4 is prayer

Ext-5 is Charge Sheet
Ext-6 is Medical Report
Ext-7 is Medical Report
Defence Witnesses: Nil
Defence Exhibits: Nil

Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu
