IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 06 of 2017
Under section 493/417 IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out GR Case No 6049/16)

State of Assam

—Vs—
Md. Abdul Rahim _ Accused Person

Present : Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State :  Mr..M.C. Baruah,

Specialh\Public Prosecutor

For the accused : \Mr. K. Deka, Advocate
Date of Argument : 09-08 -2019
Date of Judgment : 22-08-2019.
JUDGMENT
1. The genesis of the present case is that for last three years the

informant/victim maintained love affairs with the accused Md. Abdul Rahim
and he assuring to marry, did have physical relation with her but thereafter
on 22-12-2016 at night, the accused without her knowledge married

another girl and thereby cheated her.

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.1) on 23-12-2016 from the
informant/victim (PW1), O.C of Sootea Police station registered the case
being Sootea P.S. Case No. 199/2016 u/s 448/493/417 of IPC and

launched investigation of the case. In course of investigation, the

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
Investigating Officer (PW 7) recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent
the victim for medical examination, got her statement recorded u/s 164
Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation having found materials, laid
chargesheet against the accused Abdul Rahim u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of the accused person before this Court, after
furnishing the necessary copies of the documents as required u/s 207 of
Cr.P.C. and having heard both parties, charge was framed against the
accused u/s 493/417 of IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act by my
learned predecessor and particulars of the charge on being read over and
explained to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed for

trial.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution.examined as many as eight
witnesses. On closure of the prosecution, evidence, statement of the
accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the accused denied all the
incriminating evidence that emerged against him and examined none.

5. The points for decision in this»case is that -

(1) Whether accused Abdul Rahim prior to 23-12-
2016 at No. 4 Bhujmari under Sootea Police station
deceitfully caused Miss "X” who was not lawfully
married to the accused, to believe that she was
lawfully married to the accused and in that belief
cohabited or had sexual intercourse with her and
thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 493 of IPC?

(2) Whether accused Abdul Rahim prior to 23-12-
2016 at No. 4 Bhujmari under Sootea Police station
cheated Miss "X” (16 years of age) by inducing her to
have sexual intercourse with him promising to marry
her but lateron married another girl and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 417
of IPC ?

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
(3) Whether the accused Abdul Rahim committed
penetrative sexual assault on the child victim under
the age of 18 years and thereby committed an
offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

 

6. Mr. Baruah, the learned Special Public Prosecutor submitted that
the evidence of the victim inspire confidence that she had love affair with
the accused and that the accused with the assurance of marrying her
undergone intercourse with her at different time but lateron the accused
married another girl without informing her. He also submitted.that the
conduct of the accused reveals that from the very inception the accused
never intended to marry her and by giving promise. that |he would marry,
had sexual intercourse with her. It is further Submitted that as consent of
the victim was obtained on misconception ‘of fact, hence it cannot be said
to be a consent. Moreover, as the prosecutrix is a minor one hence consent
is irrelevant in the present case ‘and. the accused is guilty for committing

penetrative sexual assault on:the.child»victim.

7. Refuting the argument of the learned Special P.P., Mr. Deka
appearing for the accused, made a lengthy submission that in the case in
hand, the prsoecutrix_was in love with the accused and if she maintained
sexual relation, it was done voluntarily and even if lateron he could not
marry her, due to some reason it cannot be said to be a breach of promise
and cannot be said to be a case of rape. The learned defence counsel also
argued that the prosecution failed to prove the age of the victim to be held
asS~a minor as claimed and as such, it does not come within the ambit of
POCSO Act.

8. Considering the rival submissions advanced by the learned counsel
of the parties, having regard to the evidence on record, it would be

apposite to have a bird’s view of the evidence on record.

9. PW 1, victim's father testified that the accused had love affairs
with his victim daughter since 3 years prior to the incident and assuring to

marry her, he did have illicit relation with his daughter when she was 16

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
years old. Hence he called the guardian of the accused and decided to
solemnize their marriage after one year as because the accused had no
income at that time but thereafter, the guardian of the accused sent him
outside for work and when he returned from outside, the accused married

another girl instead of his daughter. Then his daughter lodged the case.

During cross, he admitted that prior to the incident, the uncle of
the accused came to them and gave proposal to marry the victim with the
accused. Though they accepted the proposal but lateron the, accused

married another girl on 22-12-2016.

10. PW 2, the aunty of the victim girl, stated that» she knew about the
love affair of the victim aged anout 15 years with the accused who
promised to marry her. She further stated that the accused quite off and
on used to visit their house and during thatperiod whenever she asked the
accused the reason for visiting her niece.in such a way, he replied that he
would marry the girl. Thereafter), the accused had gone to Kerela. The
accused told them that after returning from Kerela, he would marry her.
But after returning from Kerela‘one day the accused went to see a bride.
Then on being asked the accused for seeing a bride instead of marrying
her, he replied that,he has nothing to say as his family members arranged
the marriage. Then. the victim recalling her sexual relation with him on
many times, asked him about her fate if he married another girl and that

she would die if the accused would not marry her.

During cross she stated that prior to filing of the case, they had no
knowledge about the marriage of the accused. She also stated that prior to
the incident, the uncle of the accused gave proposal to marry the victim
with the accused which they accordingly accepted but on 22-12-2016 the

accused married another girl after institution of this case.

11. PW 3 the grand mother of the victim stated that on the day of the
incident, when she was in the house of her nephew situated near the
house of the victim, she heard hulla when victim’s brother caught hold the

victim along with the accused at night under betel nut bagan. The village

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
women assembled there, told her that the accused was found with the
victim aged about 17 years under betel nut trees in compromising position.
This witness also stated that the accused and the victim girl had love

affairs since last three years.

During cross, she stated that prior to the incident, they accepted
the proposal of uncle of the accused for marriage of the victim with the
accused, but lateron the accused married another girl on 22-12-2016 and

hence the case was filed.

12. PW 4 is the victim girl herself. She admitting her lovevaffair with
the accused since three years stated that the accused..used “to visit her
house and promised to marry her. During that ‘period, inspite of her
protest, the accused committed sexual intercourse with her three times
assuring to marry her saying that there is nothing wrong in indulging such
acts as he would marry her but lateronshe arranged to marry another girl
and on being asked about this, he advised her to search for another boy.
Inspite of her request whenshexmarried another girl, she lodged the FIR,
Ext.1. She further stated that at the time of incident, she was reading in

class VIII and her age was ‘L5eyears.

During, cross she stated that she did have physical relation with
the accusedin. her house in absence of other family members. She also
stated that few days prior to filing this case, the accused’s uncle coming to
her. house gave proposal to marry her with the accused. She admitted that

when'she learned to ride bicycle, she had fell several times.

13. Close on the heels the evidence of PW3, the victim’s grand-
mother, PW 5, the grand-father of the victim, deposed that on the day of
incident, at around 10 p.m. when he went to nature’s call, he saw the
accused and the victim in compromising position but seeing him both of
them fled away. Then on being asked, the victim reported him that the
accused raped her forcefully. He stated that prior to this incident also, the

accused used to visit their house inspite of their objection. During cross he

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
admitted that before police he did not state that he saw the accused and

the victim in compromising position.

14. PW 6, the aunty of the victim, who resided with the victim in same
house, deposed that since three years prior to the occurrence, victim
maintained love affairs with the accused who used to visit their house.
Lateron, the accused went to outside of the State for job and after coming
from outside, he married another girl and then the case was filed by the
victim. She stated that the victim told that the accused committed bad act
with her.

During cross, she stated that prior to one month of the incident,
the accused went outside for job. Defence suggested thatthe uncle of the
accused gave proposal to them (PW6) to marry. the victim with the accused

but as the accused did not marry, the case was filed which she denied.

15. PW 7, Madharam Gogoi, the Investigating Officer, deposed that on
being endorsed him to investigate the case, he visited the place of
occurrence, recorded the..statement of the victim and other witnesses,
drew the sketch map of the place of occurrence vide Ext.2, sent the victim
for medical examination, arrested the accused Abdul Rahim and finding the
age of the victim ‘under the age of 16 years as per the medical examination
report, submitted chargesheet against the accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act vide
Ext. 3. During cross, he confirmed that PW 1 the victim’s father stated
before. him that the accused committed misdeed to his daughter at the
garden. He also confirmed that the victim did not state before him that the

accused did have physical relation with her for three times.

16. PW 8, Dr. Jonali Gogoi the Medical Officer deposed that on 23-12-
2016 she examined the victim and on examination found — hymen ruptured
and as per X-ray report she is 16 years old but no any injury mark was
found on her body. There was no sign of recent sexual intercourse. She
proved the medical report as Ext. 4 and X-ray report of both wrist, both

elbow and pelvis as Ext. 5.

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
During cross, she stated that this type on rupture on hymen may

be occurred due to cycling, jumping or due to any accident.

17. Now, the question is whether the above evidence is sufficient to
show that the victim girl was under 18 years of age at the time of
occurrence. So far the question of opinion being based on radiological
report is concerned, it may be observed that absolute reliance cannot be
placed on such radiological opinion. According to an observation made in
Modi’s Text Book of Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 20 Edition,
radiological examination merely indicates an average age and)such age is
likely to very in individual cases even of the same. province owing to
eccentricities of developments. Refuting to this observation, a Division
Bench of Hon'ble Madras High Court in Shanmugham Vs. The State
reported in 1984 Crl.L.J. 1081 has observed\that the determination of
age on the basis of radiological examination.can only be an approximate
factor and it cannot be taken as a decisive and incontrovertible feature.
The learned court observed as follows :
“Courts have taken judicial notice of this fact and have
always held \that, evidence afforded by _ radiological
examination. is no doubt a useful guiding factor for
determining the age of a person, but the evidence is not of
a conclusive and incontrovertible nature and is subject to

a margin of error.”

As regards the margin of error in ascertaining age, the Apex Court
in Jayamala Vs. Home Secretary, Govt. of J & K, reported in AIR
1982 SC 1297 has observed as follows :

“However, it is notorious and one can take judicial
notice that the margin of error in age ascertained by

radiological examination is two years on either side.”

18. Keeping in view the above legal position, we may also take notice
of other oral evidence, in this regard. As noted above, the victim’s father

claimed the age of the victim as 16 years and according to the victim and

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
her aunty - PW 2, she was 15 years at the relevant time. On the other
hand, the grand mother of the victim i.e. PW 3 mentioned the age of the
victim as 17 years at the relevant time. The medical report reflects that the
victim was 16 years old. Though according to the victim, she was reading
in class VIII at the time of incident but no any school certificate or birth
certificate of the victim was seized by the I.O. to ascertain her age. In the
instant case, statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. was not recorded. In
the above, the result is that the age of the prosecutrix has been left in
doubt. Therefore, the age of the prosecutrix having not been satisfactorily
proved to be below 18 years, let us see the other facts and circumstances

of the case.

19. The story that emerges from the evidencevof.Pws narrated above
is that the victim had love affairs with the accused.since three years prior
to filing the FIR. Only claim of the victim ‘is ‘that during the period of
maintaining love though she opposed in ‘having physical relation, but the
accused did have sexual intercourse*with her three times promising to

marry her saying that there’ is‘nothing wrong in doing such acts.

20. In Uday Vs. State of Karnataka reported in (2003) 4 SCC
48, the Apex Court held that consent given by a prosecutrix to sexual
intercourse witha person with whom she is deeply in love, on the basis of
promise made by«such a person that he would marry her on a later day,
can never*be said to have been given under a misconception of fact. A
careful. reading of the Hon’ble Supreme Court's case in Dilip Singh @
Dilip Kumar Vs. State of Bhar reported in (2005) 1 SCC 88, shows
that while a promise to marry without anything more will not give rise to
misconception of fact within the meaning of Section 90 IPC, a
representation deliberately made by the accused with a view to obtaining
consent of the victim without having intended to marry her will, vitiate the
consent. If at very inception of making of the promise to marry, the
accused did not really entertain the intention to marry the victim and the
promise to marry was a mere hoax, consent, ostensibly given by the victim,

will not exculpate the accused from the ambit of section 376 of the IPC.

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
Mere failure of an accused to keep his promise of marriage, on future date,
will not be sufficient proof, in the absence of anything more, that the
promise made by the accused was never intended to be acted upon by
him. Even if a prosecutrix had consented believing in the words of the
accused that the promise for marriage made to her by the accused is
honest and genuine, this will not be sufficient to hold that no consent
existed for the purpose of section 90 IPC unless it is further established
that the accused, at the time, when he had made the promise, did not

have the intention of keeping to his promise.

21. In the present case, the victim alleged.that»the accused
committed sexual intercourse with her three times, but she remained
silent, during the long period of three years, on which dates he did have
sexual intercourse with her. On the other*hand, PW5 the victim's grand
father stated another version that on the day.of*the incident at around 10
p.m. when he went to attend nature’s call he saw both the accused and
the victim in compromising positionvand seeing him both the accused and
victim fled away. Victim’s grand mother PW 3 also in the same tune, stated
that on the day victim’s.brother caught hold the victim and the accused
under betel nut treessat night finding them in compromising position. So,
the evidence of PW 3.and PW 5, the grand-mother and grand-father of the
victim herselfsadmitted that the accused and the victim were found in
compromising, position at night in the midst of betel nut trees. According to
PW.5‘seeing’*him, the accused and the victim fled away and on being asked
though the victim reported him that she was raped by the accused
forcefully but nowhere the victim alleged rape on her by the accused Abdul
Rahim. Perhaps when PW 5 found them in compromising position, she
falsely stated that she was raped. I find nothing as to why being grand-
parents, they would falsely stated against their granddaughter. Further,
their evidence also show that, after they were found together at night in
compromising position, the FIR was filed and thus the evidence of the
victim that when the accused married another girl, she filed the ejahar

became unworthy of credence. The evidence of the PWs discussed above,

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
10

it appears that the victim was a consenting party in committing the sexual

act, if any.

22. As per the medical evidence, the hymen of the victim was found
ruptured but during cross, the Medical officer clarified that such type of
rupture may be occurred due to cycling, jumping or in any accident. It is
also in the evidence of the victim that at the time of learning to ride cycle,
she fell down several times. In the above evidence, it cannot be

unhesitatingly held that the rupture was occurred due to physical\relation.

23. The victim also alleged that the accused promising to°marry her,
did have sexual intercourse with her. In that respect,.PW2 ‘the victim’s
father stated that the accused promising to marry the \victim had illicit
relation and committed misdeed with her but. the fact of committing
misdeed was not stated before the Investigating Officer. As per the
evidence of PW 2, the victim’s aunty, when the accused went to see his
bride, they met the accused and, then the victim questioned him as to
where she would go if he did’not marry her inspite of maintaining physical
relation with her. Her evidence indicates that at that time only PW 2 knew
about their physicalrelation,;-earlier to that when she met the accused
while visiting their*house,, the accused told that he would marry her. But at
that time she did\not Know about their physical relation. Another relative of
the victim,,PW 6=who resided in same house with the victim knew about
love.affairs.\between the accused and the victim and lateron heard from the
victimsthat the accused committed bad act with her. She did not explained
what is meant for ‘bad act’. She also did not clearly state when she heard
from victim about committing bad act. If the victim and the accused were
found in compromising position at night just prior to filing the FIR, a
question arose, which were the other two days when the accused
committed sexual intercourse with her. Further, evidence of the victim PW
4 that the accused did have sexual intercourse at her home is contradicted
by the victim’s father who before police stated that the accused did have

physical relation with her at the garden.

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
11

24. It is in the evidence that the accused went to Kerala for doing job
saying that after returning from Kerela he would marry the victim. It is also
in the evidence of PW 1 to PW 4 that accused's paternal uncle (bordeuta)
coming to the house of the victim proposed to marry the girl with the
accused. So it is not the case that the accused did not have any intention
from the very beginning not to marry her. Moreover, as per evidence of
PW 2, while the victim asked the accused why he did not marry her, the
accused replied that his family members arranged his marriage. This
evidence clearly disclosed that he had to marry another girl as arranged by

his family members. It is not that he did not intent to marry her.

25. The evidence of PW 1 to PW 4 clearly shows that though at first
the family members of the accused intended to\marry the victim, but
lateron they raised objection, whatever the*reasons,and did not eventually
marry her because of objection of his family members, not because that he
did not want to marry or that the accusedshad made a false promise to her
that he would marry her. Thatbeing the evidence on record, it cannot be
said that the representation. made by the accused was false to the
knowledge of the accused at the time it was made. Subsequent failure of
the accused to marrythe victim girl does not prove that when he made
such promise or assurance, the same were made with knowledge that such
promise oreassurance were false. In such circumstances, it is not possible
to hold confidently that the accused at the time of making promise to
marrysher did not intend to marry her and thus he also can not be held

guilty:for the offence of cheating punishable u/s 417 IPC.

26. Because of what has been discussed and pointed above, I am of
the opinion that the prosecution has failed to prove the charge against the
accused of alleged rape or cheating. Accordingly, point No. 2 and 3 for

determination are decided in negative.

27. Regarding the offence u/s 493 of the IPC, there is no iota of evidence
that the accused did anything which made the victim to believe that she is
his lawfully married wife and in that belief she had sexual intercourse with
him and thus the charge u/s 493 IPC also fails.

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
12

28. Accordingly, accused Md. Abdul Rahim is acquitted on benefit of
doubt from the charge u/s 493/417 of the IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act
and set him at liberty forthwith. His bail bond shall remain in force till next

six months.

29. Judgement is pronounced and delivered in open court under the

Seal and signature of this Court on the 22™ day of August, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(I.Barman)
Special'Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
13

APPENDIX.

Prosecution witnesses.

SN Oo G1 Bod he

Exhibits.

Ext. 1

Ext. 2

Ext. 3

Ext. 4

PW 1
PW 2
PW 3
PW 4
PW 5
PW 6
PW 7
PW 8

: Father of the victim.

: Aunty of the victim.

: Grandmother of the victim.
: Victim,

: Grandfather of the victim.

: another aunty of the victim.
: Madharam Gogoi, (I.0.)

: Dr. Jonali Gogoi (M.O.)

FIR
Sketch map
Charge sheet

Medical report.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

 

Special POCSO Case No. 06 of 2017
