1|Page

Present

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,

KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Md. A.U. Ahmed, AJS,

Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 24/2018/(Special
38/2018-New) corresponding to GR Case No.
803/2018 & Dokmoka Police Station Case No.
38/2018 Under Sections 363 of IPC and 4 of the

POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus

Shri Jailsing Baglary

Name of informant/complainant:
Shri Bishnu Daimary,

S/O Late Thekai Daimary

Village: Thekong Engti Gaon (Birupara)

PS: Dokmoka
District: Karbi Anglong.

Name of the accused person facing trial:

Shri Jailsing Baglary

S/O Shri Sukuram Baglary
Village: No.2 Amguri

PS: Dokmoka

District: Karbi Anglong.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution

For the defence : Mr S. Boro
Argument heard on : 29.07.2019
Judgment pronounced & delivered on: 07.08.2019

: Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
2|Page

JUDGMENT

1. It is a case of kidnap and penetrative sexual assault

alleged to have been committed by the accused person.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 03.08.2018, the
informant-Shri Bishnu Daimary lodged an ejahar with the
O/C of Dokmoka Police Station stating inter alia that on
01.08.2018 at about 4:00 AM, his first daughter-Miss Babita
Daimary aged 15 years had been missing from his house. On
search, his family members did not find out her trace and
later they could know that his missing daughter was
kidnapped by Shri Jailsing Baglary, resident of Vill-Amguri
Gaon under Dokmoka PS. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C
Dokmoka Police Station registered a case vide its PS case
No. 38/2018 under section 363 of IPC. On completion of
investigation, I.0. submitted the charge-sheet under sections
363 of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused

person. Hence the prosecution case has come

3. On completion of appearance of the accused person,
copy was furnished to the accused person. After perusal of
the case record along with case diary and hearing learned
lawyers of both sides, I found sufficient grounds for
presuming that the accused person committed the offences
under sections 363 of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act.
Accordingly, the charges were framed against him. The
particulars of the charged offences were duly read over and
explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.
3|Page

4.

Prosecution has examined as many as 8 (eight)

witnesses. Statement of the accused person was recorded

under section 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence declined to adduce

evidence. Plea of defence is of total denial.

(i)

(ii)

Points for determination are:

Whether the accused person on 01.8.2018 at about
4:00 AM at Thekong Engti (Birupara) Gaon under
Dokmoka PS kidnapped the victim aged 15 years by
keeping her away of the lawful guardianship without
his consent and that he thereby committed an

offence punishable under section 363 of IPC?

Whether the accused person on the same date and
thereafter at Guwahati committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim aged 15 years and that he
thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 4 of the POCSO Act?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through verbal arguments

advanced by the learned counsels of both sides as well as

evidence on record. At the very outset, the learned counsel

appearing on behalf of the accused person has contended

that the prosecution has miserably failed prove the case

against the accused person. On the other hand, the learned

Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the aforesaid

submission has submitted that the prosecution has

succeeded in establishing its case against the accused

person beyond all reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the
4|Page

rival submissions, it would be appropriate to give a glance at

evidence record.

7. PW-1 is Shri Bishnu Daimary who is the informant of
this case. He has stated in his evidence that he knows the
accused person and the victim, Babita Daimary is his
daughter. The occurrence took place on 01.08.2018. On the
day of occurrence at about 4:00 AM, he woke up from sleep
and did not find his daughter in the bed. He searched her
from all corners, but did not find her. On 3.08.2019 he
lodged an ejahar at Dokmoka Police Station. Ext.1 is the
ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his signature. On the night of
3.08.2019, his daughter rang him over phone, but she did
not tell the location of her stay. He suspected that his
daughter was staying with the accused person. On
06.08.2019 at 10:45 PM, police informed him that they
apprehended the accused along with the victim. Then he
went to Police Station and identified the victim. At the time
of occurrence, the victim was 15 years old. On the next day,
the victim was brought to Diphu Civil Hospital and got her

statement recorded in the Court.

8. PW-2 is Shri Kumud Basumatary who has deposed in
his testimony that he knows the informant, the accused and
the victim girl. The incident occurred in the year 2018. He is
the brother-in-law (Halpati) of the informant. On the day of
occurrence, the informant told him that from 4:00 AM, the
victim girl went missing and getting the said information, he
along with the informant started searching the victim in the
houses of their relatives and the friends of the victim. They
did not find her anywhere. On the 3" day of the incident, the
informant lodged the ejahar at Dokmoka Police Station. On
the 6" day of the incident at 10:45 PM, he went to Dokmoka
5|Page

PS and saw the victim and the accused there. At the time of
occurrence, the victim was 15 years old. On the next day,
the victim was brought to Diphu Civil Hospital and got her

statement recorded in the Court.

9. PW-3 is Shri Krisna Daimary who has deposed in his
deposition that the informant is his brother and he knows
the victim and the accused person. The occurrence took
place on 01.08.2018. On that day, his informant-brother
came to his house at 4:00 AM and informed that his
daughter, Babita Daimary went missing from their house and
asked him to search her. After two days of the occurrence,
the informant lodged the ejahar at the PS. On 06.08.2018 at
10:45 PM, police of Dokmoka PS informed his brother that
they apprehended a pair of boy and girl and asked him to go
to the PS for identification. On the next day morning, he
went to the PS and he saw the accused there. At that time,
the victim was 15 years old. Police got the victim medically

examined and got her statement recorded in the Court.

10. PW-4 is Shri Milan Basumatary who has stated that the
informant, the accused and the victim girl are known to him.
On 01.08.2018 he came to Dokmoka PS for his personal
necessity and saw the accused there. He also met the
informant there. The informant told him that on that day, the
accused eloped the victim-daughter. On_ telephonic
communication, the accused informed the informant that the
victim was with him. At the time of occurrence, the victim
was 14 years old. Later on, the informant told him that on
6.8.2018, the victim was recovered from the custody of the

accused.
6|Page

11. PW-5 is Dr Karik Kropi who has stated that on
07.08.2018 while she was serving at Diphu Civil Hospital, she
examined Smti. Babita Daimary in connection with Dokmoka
Police Station Case No. 38/2018 and found the following:
Hymen was absent and she was having four days of
menstruation and vagina admits more than one finger. No
pain and tenderness were detected. As per X-ray report, the
victim was below 18 years i.e. about 16/17 years.
Spermatozoa were not detected on her vaginal swab.
According to her opinion, alleged history of sexual
involvement was present. Ext.2 is the medical report and

Ext.2(1) is her signature.

12. PW-6 is Smti. Pratima Daimary who has testified that
the informant is her husband, and the victim girl is her
daughter. She knows the accused person. The occurrence
took place on 01.08.2018. On the day of occurrence after
getting up from sleep, she did not find her victim-daughter in
her room. Her another daughter-Payal, who used to sleep
with the victim, was sleeping alone. Then they started
searching the victim-daughter in their neighbourhood, but
did not find her. Thereafter, she found a SIM card belonging
to the accused which was found fitted in a mobile hand set
of theirs. That mobile hand set didn’t have any SIM card
earlier. From this, they suspected that the accused eloped
her daughter. Thereafter, her husband lodged the ejahar at
Dokmoka Police Station. After six days of the occurrence,
police recovered the victim girl along with the accused and
brought them to Dokmoka PS. Police got the victim medically
examined and her statement recorded in the Court. On being
asked by her, the victim told that she eloped with the

accused person and stayed at Guwahati and both of them
7|Page

stayed there as husband and wife. At the time of occurrence,

the victim was 15 years old.

13. PW-7 is the victim who has stated in her testimony that
the informant is her father and she knows the accused
person. On the day of occurrence at about 4:00 AM, she
went out of the house and met the accused on the road and
he took her to Guwahati by his own car. He kept her in a
hotel at Guwahati for six days. On every day during their
stay at hotel, the accused made sexual intercourse with her.
At the time of occurrence, she was reading in Class-IX. The
accused took her to her father’s house from Guwahati and
from there police took them to Dokmoka Police Station.
Police got her medically examined and statement recorded in
the Court. Ext.3 is her statement and Ext.3(1) and 3(2) are
her signatures. At present, she is staying at her father’s
house. At the time of occurrence, her age was 14 years.
During the stay at Guwahati hotel, she was informed that he

is a married person.

14. PW-8 is Shri J.S. Knhubung who was the then O/C of
Dokmoka PS. He himself took the charge of investigation of
the case. During his investigation, he drew the sketch map
of the place of occurrence. Ext.4 is the sketch map and
Ext.4(1) is his signature. He recorded the statements of the
witnesses and transmitted W.T. message relating to the case
to all the police stations of Assam. On the way back of the
accused to Dokmoka from Guwahati, he arrested the
accused person at Dokmoka and recovered the victim girl
from the custody of the accused. He got the victim medically
examined and her statement recorded in the Court. On
03.8.2018 he seized the birth certificate of the victim from

the possession of her mother. Ext.5 is the seizure list and
8|Page

Ext.5 (1) is his signature. M.Ext.1 is the birth certificate of
the victim. On completion of investigation, he submitted the
charge-sheet under sections 363 of IPC and 4 of the POCSO
Act against the accused person. Ext.6 is the charge-sheet
and Ext.6 (1) is his signature.

15. At First let us see whether at the time of the
occurrence, the victim was child or not. The section 2(d) of
the POCSO Act relates to definition of the child. According to
the section 2(d) of the Act, a person who has not completed
18 years is considered to be a child. Ext-5 is a seizure list by
which a Photostat copy of Birth Certificate of the victim was
seized. M-Ext-1 is the Birth Certificate of the victim. The said
photostat of the birth certificate can be taken for judicial
The defence has not disputed M-Ext-1. According to M-Ext-1,
the date of birth of the victim is 16.02.2004. Ext-1 is the
ejahar which shows that the date of occurrence is
01.08.2018. On the basis of M-Ext-1, on calculation it
appears that at the time of occurrence the victim was 14
years 05 months 15 days. It has been stated in Ext-1 that at
the time of occurrence, the victim was 15 years. Parents are
the best person who can say actual and reliable age of their
child or children. PW-1 and PW-6 are parents of the victim
who have categorically stated in their evidences that at the
time of occurrence, the victim was 15 years. PW-2 and PW-3
have also stated in their evidence supporting the evidence of
PW-1 and PW-6 that at the time of occurrence the victim
was 15 years. According to victim and PW-4, the victim was
14 years old at the time of occurrence. The victim has also
stated in her evidence that at the time of occurrence, she
was reading in class- IX (nine). The defence has disputed
the evidence of PW-1 to 4 and PW-6 to PW-7 as regards age

of the victim at the time of occurrence. M-Ext-1 shows that it
9|Page

was obtained in the month of March, 2004 immediate after
birth of the victim. Ext-2 is the medical report of the victim
which shows that ossification test over the victim was done
and that according to ossification test as on 07.08.2018 the
victim was 16-17 years old. There is no dispute that at the
time of the occurrence the victim was reading in class IX
(nine). There is no evidence on record showing that the
victim was got admitted in school late and that she detained
in a class twice. Normally a student of class IX (nine) can not
be more than 15 years old. Taking all aspects into
consideration that it has been proved beyond all reasonable
doubts that at the time of occurrence the victim was 15

years old.

16. —_In this case the victim is the most vital witness. There
is no evidence on record showing that any person saw the
accused person taking the victim away. Evidence of victim
marked as PW-7 shows that on the day of occurrence at
about 4:00 AM the victim came out from her paternal house
and met the accused on the road and there from the
accused took her to Guwahati in his vehicle wherein she was
kept in a hotel for 6 (six) days. Ext-3 is the statement of the
victim wherein the victim gave similar statement. Her
evidence also shows that the accused her back to Dokmoka
and dropped her in her parental house. In the cross
examination the victim has admitted that there was a love
affairs between her and the accused and she came out from
the house on her sweet will to meet the accused. PW-8 is
the investigating officer who has stated in his evidence that
while the accused was on way to Dokmoka from Guwahati
he was arrested and from his possession the victim was
recovered. The defence has not disputed the fact reflected

from the evidence of victim that the accused took her to
10|Page

Guwahati in a vehicle and kept there in a hotel for 6 (Six)
days. As I have already held that the victim was a child, her

consent was immaterial.

17. The victim marked as PW-7 has clearly stated in her
evidence that during her stay in hotel in Guwahati the
accused everyday made sexual intercourse with her. It is
found that the defence has also not disputed the aforesaid
evidence that accused made sexual intercourse with her
everyday while they were in a hotel in Guwahati. Now let us
see whether medical evidence has corroborated evidence of
the victim marked as PW-7 in respect of sexual intercourse.
PW-5 is the medical Officer who examined the victim on
07.08.2018 in connection with Dokmoka Police Station Case
No. 38/2018 and found absence of hymen. She also found
that vagina admitted more than one finger. It is found that
the defence has not disputed the finding of Medical Officer
marked as PW-5. Absence of hymen and size of the vagina
as reflected in Ext-2 indicate that the victim was subjected to
sexual intercourse. Now I have come to conclusion that the
evidence of the victim as regards sexual intercourse have
been corroborated by medical evidence. I find nothing on
record to disbelieve the evidence of victim marked as PW-7.
That apart, the defence has failed to make any dent on the

evidence of the victim.

18. The section 363 of the IPC relates to punishment for
kidnapping child from lawful guardianship which reads thus:-
“363. Punishment for kidnapping.—Whoever kidnaps any
person from 1[India] or from lawful guardianship, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to

fine.”
11|Page

19. The section 361 of the IPC relates to kidnapping of
minor child from lawful guardianship which reads thus:-
“361. Kidnapping from lawful guardianship.—Whoever takes
or entices any minor under 1[sixteen] years of age if a male,
or under 2[eighteen] years of age if a female, or any person
of unsound mind, out of the keeping of the lawful guardian
of such minor or person of unsound mind, without the
consent of such guardian, is said to kidnap such minor or
person from lawful guardianship. Explanation.—The words
“lawful guardian” in this section include any person lawfully
entrusted with the care or custody of such minor or other

person.”

20. The section 3 of the POCSO Act relates to penetrative
sexual assault which reads thus:- “3. Penetrative sexual
assault.- A person is said to commit "penetrative sexual
assault" if-

a. he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the
vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child
to do so with him or any other person; or

b. he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of
the body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or
anus of the child or makes the child to do so with him or any
other person; or

c. he manipulates any part of the body of the child
so as to cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or
any part of body of the child or makes the child to do so with
him or any other person; or

d. he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus,
urethra of the child or makes the child to do so to such

person or any other person.”
12|Page

21. The section 4 of the POCSO Act relates to punishment
for causing penetrative sexual assault which reads thus:- “ 4.
Punishment for penetrative sexual assault.-Whoever
commits penetrative sexual assault shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not
be less than seven years but which may extend to

imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.”

22. In view of the discussion made above, I find that
prosecution has in very plain way succeeded in establishing
its case against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubts.

ORDER

 

23. In the result, I find the accused person Shri Jailsing
Baglary guilty under sections 363 of the IPC/4 of the POCSO

Act and accordingly he is convicted.

24. On the point of sentence, the accused person is heard
and to that effect his statement is recorded. It has been
submitted by the learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the
accused person that there is no evidence on record showing
that the accused was previously convicted by the Court of
Law and as such he deserves to be punished leniently. On
the other hand, the learned Public Prosecutor has submitted
that the accused needs to be punished exemplary. It is
found that the accused at the time of occurrence was a
married person having a child age of 5 years. It is evident
that the accused made flood with the victim concealing the
fact that he was a married person and father of child having
age of 5 years. It is observed that the child becomes easy

victim of the some grown persons. Considering all aspects I
13|Page

am of the opinion that the accused committed the alleged

offences with cool brain.

2p. The Division Bench of The Hon'ble Apex Court while
dealing with sexual assault caused upon a child in the case
of Nipun Saxena v. Union of India reported in “ (2019) 2
SCC 703” has observed thus : “30. A minor who is subjected
to sexual abuse needs to be protected even more than a
major victim because a major victim being an adult may still
be able to withstand the social ostracisation and mental
harassment meted out by society, but a minor victim will find
it difficult to do so. Most crimes against minor victims are not
even reported as very often, the perpetrator of the crime is a
member of the family of the victim or a close friend. Efforts
are made to hush up the crime. It is now recognised that a
child needs extra protection. India is a signatory to the
United Nations Convention on the Rights of Child, 1989 and
Parliament thought it fit to enact Pocso in the year 2012,
which _ specifically deals with sexual offences against all
children. The Act is gender neutral and whatever we say in

this part will apply to all children.”

26. — Taking all aspects into consideration I feel hesitation to
extend any leniency in sentencing the accused person.
Hence I do hereby order the accused Sri Jailsing Baglary to
undergo RI of 6 (Six) months for the section 363 of the IPC
and RI of 8 (Eight) years and to pay fine of Rs. 1000/- i/d SI
of 2 (Two) months for the Section 4 of the POCSO Act. Both
sentences will run concurrently. Set off earlier detention
period. Let certified copies of the Judgment and order be
furnished to the accused person at free of cost. Also send a
copy of Judgment to the learned District Magistrate, Karbi
Anglong, Diphu.
14|Page

2]. No order has been passed in regards compensation as

laid down under victim compensation under section 357 A of
the CrPC.

28. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

29. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this 07

August, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS)
Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong
15|Page

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Shri Bishnu Daimary
PW2- Shri Kumud Basumatary
PW3- Shri Krishna Daimary
PW4- Shri Milan Basumatary
PW5- Dr. Karik Kropi

PWe6- Shri Pratima Daimary
PW7- Miss Kabita Daimary
PW8- Shri J. S. Khubung

Defence Witnesses: Nil
Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Medical Report

Ext.3- Statement of the Victim
Ext.4- Sketch map of the PO
Ext.5- Seizure List

Ext.6- Charge Sheet

Defence Exhibited: Nil

Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam
