HEADING OF JUDGEMENT IN SPECIAL CASES:
DISTRICT: DHUBRI.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: DHUBRI.

SPECIAL CASE NO: 24/2016
UNDER SECTIONS: 448/363 IPC
READ WITH SECTIOM 8 OF THE POCSO ACT.

STATE OF ASSAM
VS.
NAZRUL HOQUE

PRESENT:- DIPAK THAKURIA,
SPECIAL JUDGE,
DHUBRI.

APPEARANCES:-
B. R. BASUMATARI, SPECIAL P. P. FOR THE STATE.
E. AHMED, LEGAL AID COUNSEL FOR THE ACCUSED.

DATE(S) OF EVIDENCE:- 11-04-2017, 02-06-2018,
28-06-2018, 08-08-2018,
21-08-2018.

DATE OF ARGUMENT:- 19-12-2018.

DATE OF JUDGMENT :- 02-01-2019.

JUDGEMENT
1. Accused Nazrul Hoque stands trial for the offences punishable under sections 448/363
IPC read with section 8 of the POCSO Act.

2. The facts of the case, as revealed from the ejahar, in brief, are as follows:- that on 08-
02-2015 at about 4.30 p.m. at village Kamalarjhar under Golokganj police station while

the prosecutrix was binding bidi in her residence then the accused entered into her

1
house, grabbed her from her back and attempted to commit rape on her.

. On the 14-04-2015 the prosecutrix lodged a written ejahar before the Officer-in-charge
of Golokganj police station where a case as Golokganj p. S. Case No. 231/2015 under
sections 143/120-B/448/376/511 IPC read with section 8 of POCSO Act was registered.

. The investigating officer arrested the accused, produced him before the Court and the
Court remanded him to judicial custody, recorded the statements of witnesses under
section 161 Cr. P. C. and statement of the victim was also recorded under section 164
Cr. P. C. By completing the investigation I. O. has submitted charge sheet against the
accused person to prosecute him under sections 448/376/511 IPC read with section 8 of
POCSO Act.

. During investigation the accused was granted bail.

. After filing the charge sheet cognizance of the case was taken and Court process was
issued. Accused had appeared and he was allowed to remain on previous bail. Copies
were furnished to the accused and after hearing both the parties and perusal the case
record and case diary formal charges against the accused under sections 448/363 IPC
read with section 8 of POCSO Act were framed by my learned predecessor. Charges so
framed were read over and explained to the accused which he pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.

. During trial the accused was defaulted. Court processes were issued and accused was
produced after arrest and he was taken into judicial custody and remanded him to hajot.

Learned advocate E. Anmed engaged as legal-aid-counsel to defend the accused.

. The prosecution examined eleven witnesses including investigating officers and closed

the evidence.

. After completion of the prosecution evidence, the statement of the accused was
recorded u/s 313 Cr. P. C. by putting questions to him from all incriminating evidence
appearing against him on record and thereby giving him an opportunity to meet the
same. In response to which, the accused denied the allegations as well as evidence on

record and also declined to adduce evidence in defence .
10.Heard learned counsels appearing for the parties and perused the evidence on record.

FOLLOWING POINTS HAVE BEEN SET UP FOR DETERMINATION
Whether the accused on 08-02-2015 at about 4.30 p.m. at village Kamalajhar under
Golokganj police station committed house trespass by entering into the house of the

prosecutrix and thereby accused /s liable to be punished under section 448 IPC?

Whether the accused on the same day time and place kidnapped the prosecutrix
from her lawful guardianship and thereby accused is liable to be punished under
section 363 IPC?

Whether the accused on the same day time and place sexually assaulted the
prosecutrix and thereby accused is liable to be punished under section 8 of the
POCSO Act?

DISCUSSIONS ON THE POINTS FOR DETERMINATION AND THE DECISION
ARRIVED THEREON WITH REASON:
11.In order to establish the charges against the accused, the prosecution has examined
eleven witnesses. Among them P. W. 2 is the prosecutrix. P. W. 1 is the sister-in-law of
the prosecutrix. P. W. 5 and P. W. 6 are the parents of the prosecutrix. P. W. 3 Arjina
Bibi, P. W. 4 Rohimuddin, P. W. 7 Jamser Ali, P. W. 8 Asma Bibi, P. W. 9 Sahadat Ali and
P. W. 10 Aminur Ali are independent witnesses. P. W. 11 Pritam Das is the investigating

officer.

12.The prosecution exhibited the Ejahar as Ext. 1, statement of the prosecutrix recorded by
Judicial Magistrate under section 164 Cr. P. C. as Ext. 2, seizure list as Ext. 3, sketch

map of place of occurrence as Ext. 4 and charge sheet as Ext. 5.

13.The defence examined none. Plea of the defence is total denial of the case.

14.Learned Special Public Prosecutor B. Basumatary has submitted that the allegations
against the accused that he committed sexual assault to the victim by entering into her
house on the day of the incident and he had kidnapped her to his house are established
by the prosecution by examining cogent and reliable evidence. The victim girl herself

filed the ejahar and her statement recorded by the Judicial Magistrate is found
consistent and reliable. Her parents have also supported the case of the prosecution.
The other independent witnesses have also supported the case of the prosecution. The
prosecution is able to establish the charges against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt. So, has prayed to hold the accused guilty under framed charges and impose

adequate punishment to him.

15.0On the other hand learned legal-aid-counsel Mr. E. Ahmed has submitted that the
accused was the victim of circumstances. He committed no offence; but he was booked
as he had land dispute with the father of the alleged victim. The allegations are false
and fabricated as the ejahar was lodged after two months of the alleged incident.
Besides it, the contents of the ejahar do not tally with the oral testimonies of the alleged
victim. The independent witnesses have not supported the story of the prosecution. The
prosecution has failed to establish the charges against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubts. So, the accused deserves benefit of doubt. Hence, has prayed to

acquit the accused.

16.Before we proceed, let us reproduce the material parts of the witnesses examined by the
prosecution during trial.

16.1 P. W. 1, is the sister-in-law of the prosecutrix. She has deposed that on the
day of the incident while she was preparing bidi in the house of Arjina Khatun
with the prosecutrix, one Kasema then the accused entered into the house of
Arjina and forcibly took away the prosecutrix. In cross-examination she has
deposed that she forgot the date of the occurrence. About five hundred
persons gathered at the place of occurrence. They did not raise alarm. After
three months of the incident police recorded her statement. She denied the
suggestion of the defence that she did not disclose before the I. O. that on
the day of incident she was preparing bidi in the house of Arjina Khatun with
the prosecutrix, Kasema and Arjina.

16.2 P. W. 2 is the prosecutrix. She has deposed that on the day of the incident
while she, along with Arjina, P. W. 1 and Kasema were manufacturing bidi in
front of her house then the accused coming from behind gagged her by
means of a gamocha and took her to his house. The accused tore out her
clothes and attempted to commit rape on her. Then somehow she was able
to remove her gamocha from her mouth and shouted for help. Then villagers
came to the house of the accused and then the accused fled away. She

lodged the ejahar (Ext. 1). Ext. 1 (1) is her signature. Her statement was
4
16.3

16.4

16.5

recorded by Judicial Magistrate. Ext. 2 is her statement and Ext. 2 (1) and (2)
are her signatures. In cross-examination she has deposed that as accused did
not accept the decision of the village meeting; so, she filed the ejahar. She
could not say who wrote the ejahar. The ejahar was not read over to her.
Police recorded her statement after seven days of filing the ejahar. She has
denied the suggestion of the defence that she did not disclose before I. O.
that accused gagged her by means of a gamocha and took her away. In the
FIR it is not mentioned that accused gagged her by means of a gamocha and
took her away. Police seized her clothes. She forgets the date of occurrence.
P. W. 3 Arjina Bibi has deposed that about two and half years back one day
she along with the prosecutrix and P. W. 1 was manufacturing Bidi in front of
her house. In the meantime the accused came to the spot and by force took
the prosecutrix to his house. She could not say what happened in the house
of the accused. In cross-examination she has deposed that she could not say
the date of the incident. After the occurrence several persons came to the
place of occurrence. Her statement was not recorded by police. She did not
tell to police that while she with prosecutrix and P. W. 1 was manufacturing
bidi then the accused came to the spot and by force had taken the
prosecutrix to his home. They did not get chance to prevent the accused.

P. W. 4 Rohimuddin Sheikh has deposed that about two years back one day
father of the prosecutrix lodged a complaint in their village about taking away
his daughter by the accused. He was present in the village bichar. As the
accused refused to accept the verdict of village bichar, they advised the
father of the prosecutrix to file case. In cross-examination he has deposed
that he did not see the incident. Police did not record his statement. He has
denied the suggestion of the defence that no village bichar was held and he
has deposed falsely.

P. W. 5 is the father of the prosecutrix. His deposition in the Court was
recorded on 2" June 2018. He has deposed that on that day his daughter
(prosecutrix) was 21 years old. Accused is his neighbor. About two and half
years back he was at his residence. At that time he was suffering from
various ailments. His daughter was manufacturing bidi in his house. At about
4.30 p.m. the accused entered into his house, gagged the mouth of his
daughter and dragged her to his house which is 100 feet away from his

house. As he was sick; so, he could not resist the accused but raised alarm.

5
16.6

16.7

16.8
16.9

Subsequently the villagers rescued his daughter from the house of the
accused. In cross-examination he has admitted that his house and the house
of the accused are in same compound. He has denied the suggestion of the
defence that he is illegally occupying the land of the accused. He purchased
the land from the accused; but it was not registered. The accused asked him
to leave the land which he refused. So, there arose dispute between him and
the accused. After one hour of the incident the villagers rescued his daughter.
He has denied the suggestion of the defence that the accused did not enter
his house, gagged the mouth of his daughter and dragged her to his house.
P. W. 6 is the mother of the prosecutrix. She has also deposed that about
two and half years back one day while she was not at her residence then she
heard that the accused entered into her house and dragged her daughter.
Then she returned home and found her daughter in her house. on being
asked her daughter told her that while she was binding bidi then the accused
came to her house, gagged the mouth of her daughter and dragged her to
his house. The villagers rescued her daughter. In cross-examination she has
admitted that she had not seen the incident. She has denied the suggestion
of the defence that her daughter did not disclose before her that the accused
came to her house, gagged the mouth of her daughter and dragged her to
his house.

P. W. 7 Jamser Ali has deposed that about three years back there held a
village bichar in the house of Mannan Ali. In that bichar he was also present.
In the bichar the accused confessed that he abducted the complainant. The
villagers imposed Rs. 30,000/ fine to the accused which the accused did not
pay. So, the complainant filed the case. I. O. seized a Kurta and he put his
Signature as seizure witness. Ext. 3 is the seizure list and Ext. 3 (1) is his
signature. In cross-examination he has deposed that on the day of the
incident he was not present at his residence. His house is just 300 meters
away from the house of the complainant. The complainant resides in the plot
of the accused. There was land dispute between the accused and the
complainant. About 25 persons were present in the village bichar. He has
denied the suggestion of the defence that accused did not confess his guilt
and the villagers imposed fine of Rs. 30,000/ to the accused.

P. W. 8 Asma Bibi knows nothing about the subject matter of the case.

P. W. 9 Sahadat Ali has deposed that about 4/5 years back the father of the

6
complainant called a village bichar and he was present in that bichar which
was held in the house of Mannan Ali. In that bichar the accused was present
and he confessed that he abducted the complainant. The villagers imposed
Rs. 30,000/ fine to the accused. The accused did not pay the fine to the
accused; so, the complainant filed the case against the accused. In cross-
examination he has deposed that in the middle of the bichar he arrived at the
house of Mannan Ali. He was invited to the bichar. He forgot who presided
over the bichar. He talked nobody present in the bichar. The houses of the
complainant and the accused are in same compound. He has denied the
suggestion of the defence that the accused did not confess his guilt in the
bichar and he was not imposed fine of Rs. 30,000/.

16.10 P. W. 10 Aminur Ali has deposed that about 2/3 years back one day he heard
that the accused kidnapped the complainant; but he could not say from
whom he received the information. In cross-examination he has deposed that
on the day of the incident he was in Shillong. After one week he heard about
the incident.

16.11 P. W. 11 Pritam Das is the investigating officer. He has deposed that on 15-
04-2015, he was working at Golokganj P.S. as attached officer. On that day,
the complainant lodged a written ejahar before O/C, Golokganj P.S. with an
allegation that on 08-02-2015 at about 4:30 pm, while she was binding bidi in
her house then the accused entered into her house from back door, hugged
her from back and attempted to commit rape on her. Then O/C. Golokganj
P.S. registered a case under sections 143/120-B/448/376/511 IPC read with
section 8 of POCSO Act and entrusted him to investigate the case. At police
station he recorded the statement of the complainant, visited place of
occurrence, inspected the place of occurrence and prepared a sketch map of
place of occurrence. He recorded the statements of the witnesses under
section 161 Cr. P. C. He sent the complainant who was the victim to Dhubri
for medical examination; but she refused to get medically examined. She was
also sent to Dhubri Court for recording her statement under section 164 Cr.
P. C. On 14-10-2015 he arrested the accused and produced in the Court.
After completing the investigation he submitted charge sheet against the
accused under sections 376/511 IPC read with section 8 of POCSO Act. He
has exhibited the seizure list as Ext. 3, sketch map of place of occurrence as
Ext. 4 and charge sheet as Ext. 5. Ext. 3 (2), Ext. 4 (1) and Ext. 5 (1) are his

7
signatures. In cross-examination he has deposed that P. W. 1 did not disclose
before him that she along with prosecutrix, Kashema and Arjina Khatun while
preparing bidi in the house of Arjina Khatun, the accused arrived there and
forcibly took away prosecutrix to his house. The prosecutrix did not disclose
before him that the accused gagged her mouth by means of a gamocha and
took her away. Witness Arjina Khatun disclosed before him that while she
along with P. W. 1 and the prosecutrix was manufacturing bidi then accused
arrived there and forcibly took away the prosecutrix to his house. The father
of the prosecutrix disclosed before him the accused entered into his house,
gagged the mouth of his daughter and dragged her to his house. Mother of
the prosecutrix disclosed before him that on the day of the incident the
accused came to her house, gagged the mouth of her daughter and dragged
her to his house. To ascertain the age of the victim he did not collect any
document. The houses of the accused and the complainant are in same

compound. At the time of incident the victim was not alone.

17.On perusal the ejahar (Ext. 1) it appears that the alleged incident took place on 08-02-
2015 at about 4.30 p.m. The ejahar was lodged on 14-04-2015. The prosecutrix in her
ejahar has stated that she was waiting for holding a village bichar regarding the
incident; so, delay occurred in filing the ejahar. The contents of the ejahar show that the
prosecutrix filed the ejahar against five persons including the accused and the O. C.
Golokganj police station registered a case under sections 143/120-B/448/376/511 IPC
read with section 8 of POCSO. The investigating officer after completion of the
investigation submitted charge sheet only against the accused. During the investigation
the statement of the prosecutrix was recorded by the Judicial Magistrate under section
164 Cr. P. C. During trial the prosecution exhibited the statement of the prosecutrix
through the prosecutrix and marked the same as Ext. 2. The prosecutrix authenticated
her signature thereon. On perusal the statement of the prosecutrix recorded by Judicial
Magistrate it appears that on 17-04-2015 her statement was recorded under section 164
Cr. P. C. In her statement she has stated that the incident took place on 12-04-2015.
The prosecution has not clarified actually on which date the alleged incident took place.
Was it 08-02-2015 as mentioned in the ejahar (Ext. 1) or on 12-04-2015 as stated by
the prosecutrix in her statement recorded by Judicial Magistrate under section 164. Cr.
P. C. (Ext. 2)?
18.In a case registered under the provisions of POCSO Act the age of the victim is very
much essential. The prosecution has to establish that on the day of the alleged incident
the victim was a child as defined under section 2 (d) of POCSO Act. The victim herself
filed the ejahar. In the ejahar her age has been mentioned as 17 years. After filing the
case while she was produced before Judicial Magistrate for recording her statement she
mentioned her age as 15 years. The investigating officer (P. W. 11) while deposed in the
Court has stated that he had not collected any document to ascertain the age of the
victim. The prosecution examined the father of the prosecutrix as P. W. 5. His deposition
during trial was recorded on 2™ June 2018. On that day he has stated that on that day
his daughter was 21 years old. From the evidence of the investigating officer it appears
that he sent the victim girl to Dhubri Civil Hospital for medical examination; but the
victim refused to get medical examination. So, medical examination of the victim was
not done. If the victim was medically examined; definitely the medical officer would have
been ascertained her age. As the prosecution has failed to produce any cogent evidence
to show the actual age of the victim; so, it is difficult to hold that the victim was a child
on the day of the alleged incident as defined under section 2 (d) of the POCSO Act.

19.Evidence on record shows that the houses of the prosecutrix and the accused person are
in the same compound. In the ejahar the prosecutrix has stated that on the day of the
incident while she was making bidi in her house then the accused came to her house.
But the prosecutrix in her statement recorded under section 164 Cr. P. C. has stated that
while she was making bidi in her courtyard then the accused came and committed the
offences. The prosecutrix while deposed in the Court during trial has stated that while
she was making bidi in front of her house then the incident took place. From the oral
testimony of the prosecutrix it appears that P. W. 1, one Arjina and one Kasema were
present at the time of the incident. P. W. 1 has deposed that they were making bidi in
the house of Arjina Khatun. But Arjina Khatun has deposed that they were making bidi in
front of her house. From the evidence of the prosecutrix, P. W. 1 and Arjina Khatun it is
not clear actually where the incident took place. Was it in the house of the prosecutrix or
in the house of Arjina or in front of the house of Arjina? During investigation the I. O. (P.
W. 11) inspected the place of occurrence and prepared its sketch map which the
prosecution has exhibited and marked as Ext. 4. On perusal the Ext. 4 it appears that in
between place of occurrence which is marked as “A” in the sketch map and the house of
the accused which is marked as “B” there is village road. But on perusal the oral

testimonies of the non official prosecution witnesses it appears that the house of the

9
prosecutrix and the house of the accused were in the same compound. If that is so, the
sketch map of place of occurrence prepared by I. O. during investigation was not
correct.

20.After carefully scanning the evidence on record it appears that the alleged incident did
not occur inside the house of the prosecutrix. As the houses of the prosecutrix and the
accused are in same compound and the alleged incident had not taken place inside the
house of the prosecutrix; so, question of committing house trespass by the accused does

not arise.

21.Another charge framed against the accused is under section 363 IPC i.e. punishment for
kidnapping. In the case in hand the prosecutrix has deposed that on the day of the
incident the accused gagged her by means of a gamocha, and took her to his house. P.
W. 1 and P. W. 3 who were present on the spot at the time of the alleged incident with
the prosecutrix have deposed that the accused arrived at the place of occurrence and
forcibly took away the prosecutrix. Both P. W. 1 and P. W. 3 have deposed nothing that
the accused gagged the mouth of the prosecutrix by means of a gamocha. The father of
the prosecutrix was also present at the time of incident. As per his deposition the
prosecutrix was binding bidi in his house and then the accused came to his house
gagged her daughter, dragged her to his house which is just 100 feet away from his
house.

22.To constitute an offence punishable under section 363 IPC the prosecution has to show
that the accused kidnapped the prosecutrix. As per section 359 IPC kidnapping is of two
kinds: kidnapping from India and kidnapping from lawful guardianship. The case does
not fall under the category of kidnapping from India as defined under section 360 IPC.
Now let us scrutinize whether the case falls under the category of kidnapping from
lawful guardianship as defined under section 361 IPC or not. As per section 361 IPC
whoever takes or entices any minor under eighteen years of age if a female out of the
keeping of lawful guardian is said to kidnap such female from lawful guardianship. The
main ingredient under this section is that the female must be under eighteen years of
age. As discussed above the prosecution has failed to establish that the prosecutrix at
the time of the alleged incident was a minor under the age of eighteen years. As the
prosecution has failed to produce any cogent evidence regarding the age of the
prosecutrix; so, it is held that the prosecution has failed to establish that the accused on

the day of the alleged incident kidnapped a minor girl under the age of eighteen years.

10
23.So far charge of sexual assault punishable under section 8 of POCSO Act is concerned;
the prosecution has to show that on the day of the alleged incident the prosecutrix was
a child as per provision of POCSO Act. It has already been discussed that the
prosecution has failed to establish that the prosecutrix was a child at the time of the
alleged incident. Besides it at the time of the alleged incident P. W. 1, P. W. 3 and P. W.
5 were present. The prosecutrix has deposed that the accused tore her clothes and
attempted to commit rape on her. The P. W. 1 and P. W. 3 were present in the
courtyard. But they have stated nothing that the accused tore the clothes of the
prosecutrix and attempted to commit rape on her. Father of the prosecutrix (P. W. 5)
has also deposed nothing that the accused tore the clothes of his daughter and

attempted to commit rape on her.

24.During investigation the I. O. seized a torn Kurta of the prosecutrix. From Ext. 3, the
seizure list, it appears that it was seized on 15-04-2015 on being produced by the
prosecutrix herself. During trial the prosecutrix has not disclosed that on the day of the

alleged incident she was wearing the seized kurta.

25.From the materials on case record it transpires that after two months of the alleged
incident the ejahar was filed. The ground of delay in filing the ejahar has shown that a
village bichar was held regarding the incident and the accused refused to accept the
decision of the villagers; so, delay occur in filing the ejahar. But the prosecution
witnesses have stated nothing on which date the village bichar was held. From the
evidence on record it is revealed that the prosecutrix and her family are staying in the
compound of the accused. Though the defence suggested that the prosecutrix and her
family are illegally occupying the land of the accused which they denied; but it is clear
that there was dispute between two families. Under such circumstance we cannot ruled

out false implication to the accused by the prosecutrix.

26.In a criminal case burden of proof of the case always lies on the prosecution. The

Hon'ble Gauhati High Court in Abdul Sufan and others vs. State of Tripura 2009
Legal Eagle 620 has opined that:

“11. In a criminal jurisprudence, the case of the prosecution should rest on

its own strength and not in the absence of explanation plausible defence by

the accused. While dealing with serious question of guilt or innocence of

persons charged with crime, the following general rules have been laid down

11
for the guidance of courts:- (i) The onus of proving everything essential to
the establishment of the charge against the accused, lies on the prosecution;
(2) The evidence must be such as to exclude to moral certainty every
reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused; (iii) In matters of doubt it is
safer to acquit than to condemn; for it is better that several guilty persons
should escape than that one innocent person suffer; (iv) There must be a
clear and unequivocal proof of the corpus delecti. (v) The hypothesis of guilt
should be consistent with all the facts proved. With due respect, we may add
that it is not the duty of courts to make up the loopholes of the prosecution
howsoever suspicious the involvement of the accused in the crime. In other
words, this Court cannot take over the duty of the prosecution. We
understand that a reasonable doubt is not an imaginary, trivial or merely
possible doubt, but a fair doubt based reason and common sense. In the case
at hand, a fair doubt is created in the case of the prosecution the appellants
are entitled to the benefit of doubt. In our anxiety to punish persons accused
of murder, we must not overlook the cardinal principles of criminal law that
the accused is presumed to be innocent until his guilt is established by the
prosecution. Until and unless Parliament amends the Evidence Act, 1872
changing the law of burden of proof, it is not expected of criminal courts, in
our anxiety to increase the number of convictions, to dilute the standard of
proof required in a criminal trial or give different complexion, covertly or
otherwise, to the concept of fair trial according to law. In the instant case,
even if it can be said in favour of the prosecution that the evidence is equally
balanced, which appears to be a correct view, conviction of the appellants
cannot be upheld. In a criminal case, if there can be two possible views on
the evidence adduced by the prosecution, the accused is entitled to acquittal
on the benefit of doubt. In the instant case, a fair or reasonable, not
imaginary, possible or trivial, doubt looms large in the case of the prosecution
to bring home the charges against the appellants, and they are, therefore,
entitled to the benefit of doubt in the view that we have taken, it is difficult to

uphold the impugned judgment of conviction and sentences.“

27. In view of the above discussion and observation it is concluded that the prosecution has
failed to establish the charges framed against the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

So, the accused deserves benefit of doubt. Accordingly the accused is acquitted of the

12
charges on benefit of doubt and he is set at liberty.

28.The accused is in judicial custody. So, the accused is allowed to go on bail of Rs. 10,000/
with a surety of like amount in default the accused will remain in jail for next 6 months
as per section 437-A Cr. P. C.

29.Destroy the seized article after expiry of appeal or revision period.

30.Given under my hand and seal of this Court this the 02™ day of January 2019.

(D. Thakuria)
Special Judge, Dhubri.
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: DHUBRI.

SPECIAL CASE NO: 24/2016

UNDER SECTIONS: 448/363 IPC READ WITH SECTIOM 8 OF THE POCSO

ACT.
STATE OF ASSAM
VS.

NAZRUL HOQUE

APPENDIX

A. Prosecution exhibits:
Ext. 1 : Ejahar.
Ext. 2 : Statement of the victim.
Ext. 3 : Seizure list.
Ext. 4 : Sketch map of place of occurrence.
Ext. 5 : Charge sheet.
B. Defence Exhibits : Nil.
C. Court Exhibits : Nil.

D. Prosecution Witnesses:

P. W. 1: Relative of the prosecutrix,
P. W.2: Prosecutrix,
P.W.3: Arjina Khatun,
P. W.4: Rohimuddin Sheikh,
P.W.5: Father of the prosecutrx,
P. W.6: Mother of the prosecutrx,
P. W.7: Jamser Ali,
P. W.8: Asma Bibi,
P.W.9: Sahadat Ali,
P. W.10: Aminur Ali &
P. W.11: Pritam Das.
E. Defence Witness: Nil.
F. Court Witness: Nil. (D. Thakuria )

Special Judge, Dhubri.
