IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Bilasipara.

Special (POCSO) Case No- 07 of 2019
u/s 341/506 of Indian Penal Code &
u/s 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.

State of Assam

-Vs-
Mohir Uddin Talukdar
sania accused person

Date of framing charge i 12-03-2019
Date of recording evidence _ :- 26-03-2019

09-04-2019

22-05-2019

19-07-2019

08-11-2019

09-12-2019
Date of Argument 20-01-2020
Date of Judgment ‘ 27-01-2020
Advocates Appeared:
For the State of Assam :- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam.

For the defence :- Mr. R. Neogi & Mr. Topa Ghosh,

Ld. Advocate for the defence.

Contd. to page no. 2
[2]
JUDGMENT

1. This case is under section 341/506 Indian Penal Code and under
section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. So, the name of
the victim is not mentioned and she is, hereinafter, referred to ‘x’.
2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Sayed Ali, the informant lodged
an ezahar with the Salkocha police out post on 21-09-2016 informing that ‘x’
is the granddaughter of the informant. ‘x’ was only 14 years old. On 13-04-
2018, ‘x’ went to the paddy field to bring back the goats. She went by the
side of the house of the accused Mohir Uddin Talukdar. The accused Mohir
Uddin Talukdar wrongfully restraint ‘x’, took her to his house, gagged her
mouth and then had committed sexual intercourse on her. The accused
Mohir Uddin Talukdar threatened ‘x’ not to divulge the incident to other.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused.
3. The Salkocha police out post received the ezahar vide GDE no. 351
dated 21-09-2018 and forwarded to the Chapar police station. The Chapar
police station received the ezahar and registered vide Chapar police station
case no. 379/2018 under section 341/34 Indian Penal Code read with section
4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 9/10 of Prohibition of
Child Marriage Act. The case was investigated and having found prima facie
under section 341 Indian Penal Code and section 4 of Protection of Children
from Sexual Offences Act against the accused Mohir Uddin Talukdar, laid the
charge sheet before the court for trial.
4. The accused Mohir Uddin Talukdar, hereinafter called the accused,
appeared in this case. Copy was furnished to the accused. Charge was
framed under section 341/506 Indian Penal Code, I.P.C in short, and section
4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, POCSO in short,
against the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the accused
to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined 10 (ten) witnesses, namely-

1. Sayed Ali P.W-1
2. ‘x’/the victim P.W-2
3. Kamar Ali Talukdar P.W-3

Contd. to page no. 3
[3]

4. Moynal Talukdar P.W-4
5. Nozmul Hoque P.W-5
6. Malek Uddin P.W-6
7. Sopiya Talukdar P.W-7
8. Abdul Hamid Talukdar P.W-8
9. Sumanta Ch. Barman P.W-9
10. Dr. Rinku Anmed P.W-10
6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was

recorded where he denied all allegations levelled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution witnesses and also declined to adduce evidence

in defence.

re

Heard argument for both sides.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

Whether accused on 13-04-2018 at about 04.00 P.M at village
Kamardihi Part I under Chapar police station, wrongfully restrained
‘x’ when she went to bring goat from the field and thereby
committed offence u/s 341 I.P.C?

Whether accused on 25-04-2018 at village Kamardihi Part I under
Chapar police station, committed criminal intimidation by
threatening ‘x’ to put her sign on kabin-nama form which she was
not legally bound to do and thereby committed offence u/s 506
I.P.C?

Whether accused on 13-04-2018 at about 04.00 P.M at village
Kamardihi Part I under Chapar police station, committed
penetrative sexual assault on ‘x’, aged about 14 years old and
thereby committed offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act?

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF

9. In this prosecution case P.W-1 Sayed Ali is the informant. P.W-2 ‘x’ is
the alleged victim. P.W-3 Kamar Ali Talukdar, P.W-4 Moynal Talukdar, P.W-5
Nozmul Hoque, P.W-6 Malek Uddin, P.W-7 Sopiya Talukdar, P.W-8 Abdul

Hamid Talukdar are independent witnesses. P.W-9 Sumanta Ch. Barman is

Contd. to page no. 4
[4]

the investigating officer and P.W-10 Dr. Rinku Ahmed is the Medical & Health
Officer.

10. Since P.W-1 Sayed Ali is the informant and P.W-2 ‘x’ is the alleged
victim, so, both are the prime witnesses in this case. Let see the evidence of
this two witnesses, at first.

P.W-1 Sayed Ali has stated in his evidence that he is the informant in
this case. ‘x’ is his granddaughter. The occurrence took place 7/8 months
ago (from the day of adducing evidence on 26-03-2019). There is paddy
land behind the house of the accused. On the day of occurrence, the father
of ‘x’ was not at his house. He went to Guwahati for medical treatment. On
the day of occurrence at about 03.00 P.M, ‘x’ went to the paddy filed behind
the house of the accused. On her way when ‘x’ reached the house of the
accused, he caught hold of her and dragged to his house where he
committed rape on her. One Dagu Dewani informed him about the
occurrence. Accordingly, he went to the house of his son. ‘x’ told him about
the occurrence. There was discussion regarding the occurrence. The accused
agreed to marry ‘x’. But the family members of the accused did nothing to
effect the discussion. Accordingly, he lodged the ezahar.

In his cross P.W-1 has stated that he lives at Goalpara district and his
son lives at Chapar. Dagu Dewani informed him about the occurrence. ‘x’,
her mother and her father did not inform him about the occurrence. Dagu
Dewani informed him about the occurrence next day of the occurrence. He
lodged the ezahar after 3/4 months from the day of occurrence. The village
‘mel’ was held next day. It was decided in the village meeting that the
accused would marry when ‘x’ would be major. But the family members of
the accused did not comply to it. P.W-1 denied that the accused did not drag
his granddaughter and he did not commit rape on ‘x’.

11. P.W-2 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that the informant is her
grandfather and she is the victim. The occurrence took place one year ago
(from the day of adducing her evidence on 26-03-2019). There is paddy land
behind the house of the accused. On the day of occurrence, she went there
to bring their goat. On her way, when she reached at infront of the house of
the accused, she was caught hold by the accused, dragged her to his house
and committed rape on her. The accused threatened her not to divulge the

occurrence to other. After the occurrence one Salam Kazi took her signature

Contd. to page no. 5
[5]

on paper. On the day of occurrence her mother went for NRC hearing and
her father went to Guwahati for medical treatment. When her mother
returned home, she told her about the occurrence. There was a village
meeting and the accused agreed to marry her. But later on, he did not
comply to it. Her grandfather lodged ezahar in connection with the
occurrence. She gave her statement before the Magistrate, Ext-2 is the said
statement, Ext-2(1)(2) are her signature.

In her cross P.W-2 has stated that their village is thickly populated.

There are 10/12 houses nearby to their house. P.W-2 has denied that the
accused did not drag her and commit rape on her. P.W-2 has also denied
that there was no village ‘mel’ in connection with the occurrence. She had
also denied that she has adduced false evidence. P.W-2 has also denied that
her statement in Ext-2 is tutored.
12. Thus, careful scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1 Sayed Ali and P.W-2 ‘x’
shows that P.W-1 is the grandfather of P.W-2. P.W-1 lives at Goalpara and
P.W-2 lives at Chapar under Dhubri District. P.W-1 got to know about the
occurrence from one Dagu Dewani. But this Dagu Dewani is not examined
by the prosecution. So, it is a lapse on the part of the prosecution. Dagu
Dewani is a vital witness as because how Dagu Dewani got to know about
the occurrence, whether he saw to commit rape on ‘x’ or he heard from
other. So non examination of Dagu Dewani affects the authenticity of
evidence of P.W-1.

It appears from the evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-2 that the occurrence
took place at day light at about 03.00/03.30 P.M. It also appears from the
evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-2 that the place of occurrence is thickly
populated. Moreover, there are 10/12 houses attached to the house of ‘x’. If
that is so, how the accused committed the offence is a matter of question.
According to P.W-1, the accused person has his parents who are alive. The
accused has also brother and sister. In such a position, the accused
committed rape on ‘x’ cannot be acceptable easily.

13. Another aspect is that delay to lodge the ezahar. Perusal of the case
record shows that the ezahar was lodged on 21-09-2018 and the occurrence
took place 13-04-2018 i.e the ezahar was lodged after five months. There is
no specific explanation either in the ezahar or in the evidence why it took

time to lodge the ezahar. It is trite law that the ezahar should be lodged

Contd. to page no. 6
[6]

immediately after the occurrence. If there is any inevitable cause, the same
must be specifically explained. In our case instant, though there is sufficient
delay to lodge the ezahar, the same was not properly explained. This
unexplained delay may affect the prosecution case.
14. Now let see the evidence of other witnesses.

P.W-3 Kamar Ali Talukdar has stated in his evidence that the village
headman told him that the accused refused to marry ‘x’ as she was minor.

In his cross P.W-3 has stated that the accused is not his relative.
15. P.W-4 Moynal Talukdar has stated in his evidence that there was a
village meeting to discuss about the marriage between the accused and ‘x’.
But the marriage did not take place.

In his cross P.W-4 has stated that there was no discussion in respect
of rape on ‘x’ by the accused.
16. P.W-5 Nozmul Hoque has stated in his evidence that he knows
neither the informant nor the victim ‘x’. He knows the accused. He knows
nothing about the occurrence.

Cross examination of P.W-5 was declined by the defence.
17. P.W-6 Malek Uddin has stated in his evidence that he knows the
informant, ‘x’ and the accused. But he knows nothing about the occurrence.

Cross examination of P.W-6 was declined by the defence.
18. P.W-7 Sopiya Talukdar has stated in his evidence that ‘x’ is his
daughter and the informant is his father. He was in Guwahati when the
occurrence was took place. His father, the informant told him that the
accused committed rape on ‘x’.

In his cross P.W-7 has stated that his father lives at Goalpara. He did
not know when his father lodged the ezahar.
19. P.W-8 Abdul Hamid Talukdar has stated in his evidence that the
informant is his brother and ‘x’ is his granddaughter. On the day of
occurrence ‘x’ went to the grazing filed to bring goat. The accused dragged
her to his house and committed rape on her. ‘x’ told him about the
occurrence. There was village meeting where it was decided that the
accused would marry ‘x’ when she would be major. But the accused did not

marry her.

Contd. to page no. 7
[7]

In his cross P.W-8 has stated that he lives at Goalpara. He was not

with the informant when the ezahar was lodged. He was not in the village
meeting.
20. Thus, careful scrutiny of evidence of P.W-3 to P.W-8 shows that
except P.W-7 and P.W-8, the other witnesses have stated nothing to
incriminate the accused. So, the evidences of P.W-3 to P.W-6 have little
value for consideration.

P.W-7 is the father of ‘x’ and he is the son of the informant. P.W-7
was in Guwahati at the time of occurrence. He got to know about the
occurrence from P.W-1. But P.W-1 was also at Goalpara at the time of
occurrence. So, the evidence of P.W-7 is mere hearsay. The hearsay
evidence has no value in the eye of evidence. P.W-8 is the brother of the
informant. He got to know about the occurrence from the informant. P.W-8
also lives at Goalpara. The occurrence took place at Chapar under Dhubri
district. In such a situation, the evidence of P.W-8 cannot be accepted.
21. P.W-10 Dr. Rinku Ahmed is a Medical and Health Officer. P.W-10
examined the health of ‘x’. But she examined ‘x’ after five months from the
date of occurrence. P.W-10 does not support the evidence of P.W-2 ‘x’ that
there was sexual intercourse on P.W-2 ‘x’. So, the evidence of P.W-10 is not
considering.
22. P.W-9 Sumanta Ch. Barman is an investigating officer. His evidence is
mere official. He, after investigation, filed charge sheet, Ext-5. The evidence
of P.W-9 will not meliorate the prosecution case.
23. Taking all into consideration, it leads to conclusion that the
prosecution evidence is not sufficient to prove the offences as alleged
against the accused. The prosecution has failed to prove it’s case u/s
341/506 I.P.C and section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt.
24. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 341/506 I.P.C and section 4 of
POCSO Act.
25. The accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

The bail bond stands cancelled and the bailor is discharged from all

liabilities.

Contd. to page no. 8
[8]

The case is disposed of.
Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 27" day of

January, 2020 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Transcribed & typed by,
S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

P.W-1 Sayed Ali

P.W-2 ‘x’/the victim

P.W-3 Kamar Ali Talukdar

P.W-4 Moynal Talukdar

P.W-5 Nozmul Hoque

P.W-6 Malek Uddin

P.W-7 Sopiya Talukdar

P.W-8 Abdul Hamid Talukdar

P.W-9 Sumanta Ch. Barman

P.W-10 Dr. Rinku Ahmed
PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :-

Ext-1 Ezahar,

Ext-2 Statement of ‘x’ recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,

Ext-3 Sketch Map,

Ext-4 Seizure list,

Ext-5 Charge sheet,

Ext-6 Medical report.

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT WITNESS i NIL
COURT EXHIBITS * NIL

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
