Before The Special Judge,
Cachar at_ Silchar.

Present: Mr. D.Ullah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

Spl(POCSO) Case No. 7 / 2017

u/s 366 IPC r/w sec.4 of the POCSO Act

Dates of evidence
Date of argument
Date of judgment
Appearance:-

For the Prosecution

For the Defence :

The State of Assam
-Versus-
Shambhu Goala @ Kutu

beceeeeeees accused person

14.9.17; 21.4.18; 28.5.19; 20.6.19
16.11.19
27.11.19

: Miss. B. Acharjee, Id. .Spl.P.P.

Mr. S. Chakraborty. Ld. advocate

JI UDGMENT

1. The brief facts of the prosecution case is that the informant Rathindra Kumar
Dey lodged an ejahar dated 10.4.16 stating that on 9.4.16 at about 3 pm the

daughter of the informant i.e. the victim went out from the house but she did not

return. It is also stated that as per mobile message of his daughter , the informant
suspected that subscriber of the mobile No.7576919835 had kidnapped his minor

daughter and hence this case.
2. Accordingly, on receipt of the ejehar, police registered a case being Silchar
P.S Case No.977/16 u/s 366(A)/34 of the IPC. Thereafter, on completion of
investigation police submitted a charge sheet against the present accused person
u/s 366(A) of the IPC r/w sec.4 of the POCSO Act and sent up the accused person
to face trial.

3. The Ld. CJM., Cachar, Silchar committed the case to the to this court .
Thereafter, on 23.3.17 this court received the case record and registered the same
as a Spl(POCSO) case. The accused person namely, Shambhu Goala @ Kutu has
appeared before this court and on 7.8.19 after hearing the prosecution and the
defence counsel, this court was pleased to frame charges u/s 366 of the IPC r/w
sec. 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused person and its particular was read
over and explained to him to which the accused pleaded not guilty and stood to
face the trial.

4. Thereafter, the trial of this case was commenced , during which the
prosecution examined as many as, 7(seven) witnesses , which includes the
informant , the victim, the Medical Officer and the Investigating Officer of the
case. After closure of the prosecution evidence, the statement of the accused
person u/s 313 of the CrP.C is recorded and his plea is of total denial and he

declined to adduce any evidence in his support.

5. Heard the Ld. Spl.P.P and also the Ld. Counsel appearing for the accused

person .

6. Point for determination:-

(i)Whether on or about the 9.4.16 at about 3 pm at Ashram Road Giridhari
Lane under Silchar P.S the accused person kidnapped the victim, i.e. the minor
daughter of the informant with intent that she would be compelled to marry her
against her will or in order that she would be forced or seduced with illicit
intercourse or knowing it likely that she would be forced or seduced to illicit

intercourse, as alleged ?
(ii)Whether on the same date, time and place the accused person committed
penetrative sexual assault upon the victim, as alleged ?

Discussion , Decision and Reasons Thereof :-

7. In this case the prosecution side examined as many as 7(seven) witnesses
to prove the case.

8. The P.W.1 — Dr. Monalisa Deb and she is an official witness and she proved
the medical report as the Ext.1.

The P.W.2 is Goutum Dey is a reported witness and his evidence has failed to
implicate the accused with the alleged offence . The P.W.3 is Ratindra Kumar Dey,
the informant of the case and he testified that on 9.4.16 at about 2.30/3 pm his
daughter was found missing from his house and accordingly he made searches but
could not find her out and accordingly he informed the matter to P.W.1. The P.W.3
further stated that on the following morning he lodged an FIR, which is brought on
record as the Ext.2. The P.W.3 also stated that at the time of occurrence the
victime was a student of class -IX of Ramanuj Vidyamandir and after recovery he
could learnt from the victim that she was taken by the accused . He also admitted
that at the time of occurrence the age of the victim was 15 years and her date of of
birth is 23.8.2000.

12. Appreciating the materials on record, it is found that though the informant
P.W.1 alleged that the accused had kidnapped his daughter but during his
deposiiton before the court had failed to support the said version. The victim P.W.3
has also failed to implicate the accused person with the alleged offence. She has
Stated that the accused married her and taken her to his house and she lives there
as his wife and the said fact is supported by her mother i.e. the P.W.2, the wife of
the informant . On the other hand , the P.W.4 & 5 in their deposition admitted that
there was love affairs between the accused and the victim for which the victim
went with the accused of her own accord. Though, the P.W.1 & the P.W.2 have
stated in their evidence that at the relevant time of occurrence the victim was a
student of Class X. From the evidence on record, it is seen that although the father
of the victim i.e. the P.W.1 had stated that the victim was 16 years of age but no

any birth certificate or school certificate are placed by the prosecution side in
respect of the age of the victim. The victim herself has stated that her age is 19
years and the alleged occurrence took place on 5.3.19.

13. In view of the above position, I am of the opinion that the prosecution side
failed to prove that the victim is below 18 years of age at the time of occurrence.
That apart, neither the victim nor any other witnesses have implicated the
accused person in respect of the offence charged against the accused person i.e.
the offence u/s 366/376 of the IPC r/w sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

14.  Itis the bounded duty of the prosecution to prove the necessary ingredients
of the offence against the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt .

15. Upon consideration of all the oral and documentary evidence on record as
discussed above, I have found that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove

the charges against the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt.

O R DE R
16. Considering the materials available on record, I found that the prosecution
has failed to prove the alleged offence u/s 366/376 of the IPC r/w sec.4 of the
POCSO Act against the accused person present today beyond reasonable doubt. As

a result the accused person namely, Jia Uddin is acquitted and set at liberty.

Set my hand and seal of this case on the 21* day of November, 2019.

( Mr.D.Ullah),

Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Dictated & corrected by me ;

Sessions Judge, Cachar, Silchar.
APPENDIX

A.Prosecution Witnesses:-
P.W.1-Saiful Ali

P.W.2-Alkuma Bibi
P.W.3-Victim

P.W.4-Jashim Uddin
P.W.5-Saidul Hussain
B.Prosecution Exhibits:-
Ext.1-FIR

Ext.2-Statement of the victim.
C.Defence witnesses :- NIL
D.Defence Exhibits:- NIL

E.Court witness:- NIL.

( Mr.D.Ullah),
Sessions Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.
