IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE AT BARPETA.

Present :- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com., LL.B.,AJS,
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 109 OF 2019
(G.R. Case 2692 of 2019)

Barpeta P.S. Case No 1111 of 2019

State of Assam
-versus-

L.Jiyaur Rahman,

S/O Lt. Ebadat Ali,

Resident of Donakuchi,

2. Fulchan Ali,

S/O Sattar Ali,

Resident of Bheraldi, Palahartal,

Both are of

PS.&Dist.: Barpeta, 2 eee Accused.

APPEARANCES :

For the State : Sri Lalit Ch. Nath, learned Public Prosecutor,
Barpeta.

For the Accused : Mafiz Uddin Anmed and
Rafiz Uddin Dewan, learned Advocate, Barpeta.

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 376/511 OF THE INDIAN PENAL
CODE READ WITH SECTION 8 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN
FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012.

 

Date of Charge : 02.07.2019,
Date of Prosecution evidence : 15.07.2019 & 30.07.2019
Date of Statement of accused

recorded u/s 313 CrPC : 03.08.2019,
Date of Argument : 17.08.2019, 29.08.2019 & 23.09.2019
Date of Judgment : 23.09.2019.

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 1 of 22
} U D G M E N T

= The prosecution case, in brief, is that Barpeta PS. Case No
1111 of 2019 under section 376DA/511 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
Read with section 8 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences
Act, 2012 was registered on the basis of a F.I.R. lodged by Smt. Mira Das,
the mother of the victim (hereinafter referred to as 'X').

In the aforesaid F.I.R. Dated 26.05.2019 (Exhibit-2) the
informant Mira Das (P.W.2) alleged interalia that on 25.05.2019 the
accused persons were sent to their house by contractor for construction of
a latrine, which was allotted to them by Govt. Her husband went outside
for work and she too went to other persons house for work. Then, at about
12:00 O'clock at noon, when her victim daughter, aged 13 years, was
alone at home, both the accused persons entered into her house and
gagged mouth of her victim daughter and touched her body and also
attempted to commit rape upon her. It is also alleged that her victim
daughter somehow managed to escape herself from the clutch of the
accused persons and she ran outside and raised hulla. Then the
neighbouring people caught both the accused persons and handed over to
police.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-in-charge,
Barpeta Police Station, the same was registered as Barpeta PS. Case No
1111 of 2019 under section 376DA/511 of the Indian Penal Code read with
section 8 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was
medically examined by the doctor, her statement under station 164 of
CrPC was recorded by the learned Magistrate. Police, on completion of
investigation, filed charge sheet in the case against the above named
accused Jiyaur Rahman & Fulchan Ali under section 376DA/511 IPC Read
with section 8 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,
2012 vide charge sheet No.546, dated 29.06.2019.

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 2 of 22
2. Accused persons were produced after filing of charge-sheet
against them. On appearance of accused, copy was furnished to them by
the undersigned.

3. Upon consideration of the record of the case and the
documents submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the
learned counsel for the accused persons and the prosecution in this
behalf, charge was framed against the accused persons u/s 376/511 IPC
R/W section 8 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,
2012, which was read over and explained to the accused persons, to
which, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During the course of trial, O7(seven) number of witnesses
including the victim, informant, the Medical Officer and the I/O were
examined on behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge u/s 376/511
IPC R/W section 8 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act,
2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of the
above named accused persons were recorded u/s 313 of CrPC. The
accused persons denied all the alleged incriminating materials against
them. Them claimed themselves to be innocent. They also stated that
false case has been lodged against them. They denied to adduce evidence
in their defence.

5. | have heard argument advanced by Mr. Lalit Ch. Nath,
learned Public Prosecutor of Barpeta for the State as well as the learned
Defence Counsel for the accused persons, who are facing trial for
commission of offence u/s 376/511 IPC R/W section 8 of the Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6. Now the point for determination before this court are as

follows ---

(1) Whether on 25.05.2019 at about 12:00 PM at Dakhinhati
within the jurisdiction of Barpeta Police Station, District Barpeta,

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 3 of 22
attempted to commit rape on the minor daughter of the
informant Mira Das and thereby committed an offence punishable
u/s 376/511 of the Indian Penal Code ?

(2) Whether on the aforesaid date, time & place,
committed sexual assault on the minor daughter of the informant
Mira Das and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 8 of
the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF

 

7. First of all, let me see what are the relevant provisions of law
with reference to the charged sections against accused.

Section-375-Rape - A man is said to commit “rape” who, except
in the case hereinafter excepted, has sexual intercourse with a
woman under circumstances falling under any of the six following
description :-

First - Against her will.

Secondly - Without her consent.

Thirdly - With her consent, when her consent has been obtained
by putting her or any person in whom she is interested in fear of
death or of hurt.

Fourthly - With her consent, when the man knows that he is not
her husband, and that her consent is given because she believes
that he is another man to whom she is or believes herself to be
lawfully married.

Fifthly - With her consent, when, at the time of giving such
consent, by reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication or the
administration by him personally or through or through another
of any stupefying or unwholesome substance, she is unable to
understand the nature and consequence of that to which she
gives consent.

Sixthly - With or without her consent, when she is under sixteen
years of age.

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 4 of 22
Explanation - Penetration is sufficient to constitute the sexual
intercourse necessary to the offence of rape.

Exception - Sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the
wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape.

Section 511 of IPC - Punishment for attempting to commit
offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other
imprisonment - Whoever attempts to commit an_ offence
punishable by this Code with [imprisonment for life] or
imprisonment., or to cause such an offence to be committed, and
in such attempt does any act towards the commission of the
offence, shall, where no express provision is made by this code
for the punishment of such attempt, be punished with
[imprisonment of any description provided for the offence, for a
term which may extend to one-half of the imprisonment for life
or, as the case may be, one-half of the longest term of
imprisonment provided for that offence], or with such fine as is
provided for the offence, or with both.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FRM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012
Section-8 - Whoever commits sexual assault shall be punished

 

with imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not
be less than three years but which may extend to five years, and
shall also be liable to fine.

8. To decide the above point and sections of law, let us
examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses alongwith

the relevant documents.

Witness Dr. Renuka Rangpharpy [PW1], who is M.O. of
this case, deposed in her evidence before the court that on 25-05-2019
while she was posted as Associate Professor, DFM, FAAMCH, Barpeta, she
examined victim Miss Gitishmita Das, age 13 years, D/o- Chandan Das,
Vill- Dakshinhati, PS- Barpeta, Dist- Barpeta, Assam on being identified by

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 5 of 22
WPC - 682 Mamani Devi and found as follows:

History : As per alleged victim girl, on 25-05-2019 at about 12.30 PM
while she was folding cloths inside the room, two unknown man (workers)
who came to built toilet at her place, came suddenly inside the room and
trying to have sexual intercourse with her. She shouted for help and
escaped from them and went to her neighbour aunty's place. When the
public came to know about the incident, they informed to police on the
same day and she is brought to medical for medical examination.
Physical Examination:

Identification Marks : (1) Black mole present over left side of front of
chest 8 cm below the clavicle and 5 cm away from rid leap.

(2) Black mole present over back of wrist joint (right) 1 cm lateral to rid
leap.

Height : 139 CM Weight : 44 KG.

Chest girth as nipple level : 78 CM.

Abdominal girth at navel level : 64 CM.

General built & appearance : Average.

Voice : Feminine.

Teeth : 28.

Permanent: 14/14

Temporary: Nil

Hairs : Axillary : Nil.

Breasts : Hemispherical, soft to firm is consistency. Nipple and areola
small.

Puberty (as told by the individual) : Class V.

Menstruation (as told by the individual) : Regular, Duration - 4-5
days.

L.M.P (as told by the individual) : 20 days back (05/05/2019).

Mental Condition : Nothing abnormality detected.

Gait : Normal.

Intelligence : Average.

Wearing garments & any suspected stains present : Wearing
garments intact stasis not present.

Bodily Injuries : Nil.

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 6 of 22
Genital Examination:

Pubic Hairs : 0.5-1 cm, non matted and scanty is distribution

Vulva (Labia majora & minora) : Developed, healthy

Hymen : Intact.

Vagina : Rugosed and healthy

Cervix & Uterus : Uterus per abdomen not palpable.

Fourchette & Perineum : Healthy.

Vaginal swab collected:

Result of vaginal swab smear examination : Vaginal smears does not

show spermatozoa under microscope.

X-Ray Investigation advised :

Result of X- Investigation: Plate No. 13 dated 25-05-2019.

Writs Joint : Epiphyseal union around wrist joint is not completed.

Elbow joint: Epiphyseal union around elbow joint is completed.

Shoulder Joint : Epiphyseal union around shoulder joint is not

completed.

Pelvis: Epiphyseal union around iliac crest and istheal lecbero

Others (Face/Skull): Lity are not completed.

Ultrasonography advised and result: Not advised.

Opinion :

(1) There is no evidence of sexual intercourse detected on her
person.

(2) There is no evidence of injury detected on her body and
private parts.

(3) No evidence of mental or physical disability detected at the
time of examination.

(4) She is above 14 (fourteen) years and below 16 (sixteen)
years of age.

(5) No foreign particles are found on the body/cloths of the
alleged victim girl.

PW1 exhibited her report as Ext.1 and her signatures thereon
as Ext. 1(1) and 1(2).
During cross-examination, PW1 has stated that she
examined victim as per Barpeta PS GDE No. given in her report. Victim did

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 7 of 22
not state name of any person in the history recorded by her in Ext. 1.

Witness Mira Das [PW2], who is the mother as well as the
informant of the case, deposed that the victim is her daughter. Incident
took place about 2 months ago and she was at her work place. She stated
that the accused persons went to her house for construction of latrine, at
her house, as per Government scheme and both the accused were
engaged persons of the contractor. On returning home, at 1:00 PM, she
found gathering of many people in her house and her victim daughter was
not at home.

Victim told her that the accused persons had bitten on her
cheeks and torn cloths. After that, police was informed and police took the
accused persons. PW2 lodged the FIR before the police on the same day.

PW2 exhibited the FIR as Ext.2 and Ext.2(1) & 2(2) are her
signatures.

During cross examination, PW2 has stated that she got
married before 19 years. Victim was born after one year of her marriage.
Her son and victim study in a school. Victim was student of Jiban Lata High
School. School was open on the date of incident and her son did not go to
school as there was a function in his school. The distance between her
house and the house of Manoj Das where she was working, at the relevant
time, may be one furlong.

Incident took place around 1:00 PM. No incident occurred
after and prior to 1:00 PM. Police came after half an hour of the incident.
Accused were assaulted by the public. They went to thana after an hour of
taking the accused persons by the police.

She denied that she did not state before the police that she
found bitting mark and nail scratching mark on the person of her victim
daughter; that victim told that accused persons bitten on her cheeks and
torn her cloths. Accused were tied with an electrical post. Police was
informed and police took both the accused persons.

She also stated that she lodged only one FIR over the
incident.

She denied the other suggestions of the defence side.

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 8 of 22
PW2, in her re-examination, deposed that police seized the
frock. Ext.4 is the seizure list. Ext.4(1) is her signature. Ext.5 is the seizure
list and Ext.5(2) is her signature. Photocopy of birth certificate is available.

During cross-examination, she denied that seized frock is
not related to the incident of this case. She has not seen the seized frock
in the court. She did not state before police that the seizure (Ext.5). Birth
certificate of victim was obtained immediately after her birth. Original
birth certificate is not available in the court today.

The Victim [PW3] has deposed in her evidence before the
court that incident took place before 14% months ago. At the time of
incident, her parents were not at home. She was alone at her home. It was
about 12:00 PM. While she was arranging her cloth, then the accused
Jiyarul came and threw her on the bed and torn her cloths. He also had
bitten on her cheek. She tried to resist the accused persons, but could not
get success. Ultimately, she pushed the accused persons and came out
from her house. Co-accused told her that “Moko dibi neki, moko dibi neki”
(will you give me too, will you give me too). Then she told the incident to
neighbouring girl namely Olimpika Das D/O Dipak Das, who she informed
her mother. Then neighbouring people came to know the incident and
tried to assault the accused persons. She told the incident to her mother
as well as mother of Olimipika Das. Her mother lodged this case. Police
came and took the accused persons with them. PW3 further stated that
they also went to thana and told the incident to police. Police sent her to
doctor for her medical examination and also sent her to learned
Magistrate for recorded her statement u/s 164 CrPC. She gave her
statement voluntarily. Ext.3 is her statement recorded u/s 164 CrPC and
Ext.3(1) is her signature.

During her cross examination, PW3 stated that her
mother knows her date of birth. She was wearing sporting at the time of
incident. She changed her torn sporting and wore a frock. Police seized
the frock. There are two rooms in their house. Accused were working for
last 2/3 days of incident in their house. The incident took place at around
11:30 AM. Sewali, Manju reside near their house. Police came to their

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 9 of 22
house at about 12 PM. Accused were taken to the police station in injured
position. They also went to thana after the incident. Police examined her
and her mother simultaneously. The accused persons kept working even
after the incident at their house. Neighbouring people of their house may
listen to hue and cry, if raised, from their house.

She also stated that she has not seen the seized cloths
today, which was, seized by police. She studies in a school. She was
brought to Hon'ble court on the date of incident to record her statement
u/s 164 CrPC.

In her evidence she denied that she did not state before
police as wel as before learned Magistrate in her statement that the
accused had bitten on her cheek, made scratch on her body with nail at
the time of incident. She gave her statement before the police she came
out, after wearing top.

She also denied that she did not state before police that she
told the incident to Olimpika Das and her mother including her own
mother.

She denied the other suggestions of the defence side.

Witness Diganta Das [PW4] has deposed in his evidence
before the court that he knows the informant and victim of the case. He
knows both the accused person of this case. Incident took place on Bahag
Bihu this year. He alongwith Subach Ch Das were going to petrol depot for
purchasing diesel. On reaching the house of informant Mira Das, her
daughter came running from her house. She told them that two persons
have sexually assaulted her. She told them to save her. She told that
accused had bitten her apart from other atrocity. By this time public
gathered. The public people questioned the accused who assaulted the
victim. Then he left that place.

Police seized the wearing frock of the victim vide. Seizure list
Ext. 4. Ext. 4(2) is his signature.

During cross-examination, PW4 stated that at the time of
incident it was 1.30-2.00 PM. He could not see both the accused clearly.
He did not see the incident himself. Police might have taken his statement

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 10 of 22
next day.

He denied that he did not state before police that victim
came running from her house. She told them that two persons have
sexually assaulted her. She told them to save her. He does not remember
what was written in seizure list in Ext.4. He does not remember which
type of cloth was seized by the police. He has not seen the seized article
today in the court.

He also denied that he deposed falsely today. He does not
know the accused person by their names.

Witness Subhash Ch. Das [PW5] deposed in his evidence
before the court that he knows the informant and victim of the case. He
knows both the accused persons of this case.

Incident took place on 25-05-2019. He alongwith Diganta Das
were going for purchasing diesel. On reaching the house of informant Mira
Das, her daughter came running from her house. She told us that two
persons (witness has pointed his finger towards accused persons) have
tried to do bad work with her. By this time public gathered. The public
questioned the accused who assaulted the victim. Public also assaulted
the accused persons. Then he left that place.

Police seized the wearing cloths of the victim vide. Seizure
list Ext. 4. Ext. 4(3) is his signature.

During cross-examination PW5 stated that at the time of
incident it was 1.30-2.00 PM. He did not state before police at the relevant
time he was going with Diganta to petrol depot for bringing diesel. He
does not remember as to whether he stated before police or not that on
reaching the house of informant Mira Das, her daughter came running
from her house. She told them that two persons have tried to do bad work
with her.

Witness Manalisha Madhab Bhakta [PW6], who is one of
the 1.0. of the case, stated in her evidence before the court that on
25/05/2019 she was working at Barpeta PS as In-charge women cell. On
that day as per verbal instruction of the SP Barpeta, she reached the place

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 11 of 22
of incident. She recorded the statement of victim Geetismita Das u/s 161
Cr.PC. She also took her to hospital for her medical examination and
treatment.

She then handed over the statement of the victim to the I.O.
of the case.

During her cross-examination, PW6 stated that the victim
did not state before her that she told the incident to Olympica Das and her
mother including her mother. But she told me that she told the incident to
one 'baideo' (Sister).

Witness Dhanmani Deka [PW7], who is the 1.0. of this case,
stated in his evidence that on 25-05-2019 he was working at Barpeta PS in
the same capacity. On that day he received information that two persons
have sexually assaulted the victim of this case. Then he went to the place
of incident after entering the same vide thana GDE No. 679 dated 25-05-
2019.

He found the accused persons confined by the public on the
spot for committing sexual assault to the victim. He sent the accused to
doctor for their medical examination.

He also seized the wearing cloth and birth certificate of the
victim on the spot. Ext. 4 and 5 are the seizure list and Ext. 4(4) & 5(2) are
his signatures. He also recorded the statement of witnesses.

The statement of the victim was recorded by WSI Manalisha
Madhab Bhakta. He sent the victim for medical examination.

He drew sketch map of the place of incident. Ext. 6 is the
Sketch map and Ext. 6(1) is his signature.

On the next day, mother of the victim lodged FIR. He arrested
the accused Jiyaur Rahman on 27-05-2019 after his treatment and other
accused on 29-05-2019.

He also got the statement of the victim recorded by the ld.
Magistrate.

He collected medical examination report of the victim. On
completion of investigation he submitted charge Sheet against the
accused person. Ext. 7 is the charge sheet date 29-06-2019. Ext. 7 (1) is

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 12 of 22
his signature.

During cross-examination, PW7 stated that he examined
the wife of Dipak Das and Satyen Das in this case. However, he did not
examine the witnesses as shown in the sketch map. He examined Kabita
Das and Manju Das, who happened to be wife of Dipak Das and Satyen
Das.

The informant Mira Das (PW-2) did not state before him that
she found bitting and nail scratching mark on the person of victim.

Witness Subhash Ch. Das (PW-5) did not state before him
that victim came running from her house at the relevant time and told
them that accused tried to do bad work with her.

He does not have personal knowledge about the incident.

He signed Ext.4 either on the date of incident or next day. He
did not go through the Ext. 4 before singing it.

He has not seen the seized article in the court today.

He denied that accused are innocent.

9. On a bare perusal of the statement of victim recorded by
learned Magistrate vide Ext.3, it is seen that victim stated both the
accused carried her to her bed and one of them closed her mouth at the
relevant time of incident. She was laid on bed and one of them bitten on
her cheeks. She further stated that both of them touched her on her chest
and torn her cloths. But somehow she freed herself and came out of her
house. Then people gathered. Victim [PW3] has stated the same thing in
her statement u/s 161 CrPC before the police. She categorically stated in
her statement before police that both accused embraced her and and
bitten on her cheeks. She also stated that both of them put hands inside
her sporting and touched her on her chest. Then other one also kept on
saying that he has also to be given (moko dibo lagibo). She also stated
that accused laid on her bed and did not free her inspite of her effort to
get her released from their clutches. At last, she pushed them with her
legs and came out from her house after wearing a new top.

Victim also gave almost the same version in her deposition
before the court as PW3. She also reiterate that one of the accused told

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 13 of 22
her that “moko dibi neki, moko dibi neki” (will you give me too, will you
give me too).

Thus, it is seen that victim was found consistent in her
statement before police u/s 161 CrPC, before the learned Magistrate u/s
164 CrPC and before the court.

Moreover, the version of victim is fully supposed by PW4 and
PW5, who are independent chance witnesses. Both the PWs in their
evidence clearly stated that they were going in a bike to petrol depot just
after the incident. On reaching the house of informant, victim was found
coming out from her house. Victim also stated that two persons have
sexually assaulted her. PW5 also identified both the accused during his
evidence in the court.

Both the accused persons, in their statement u/s 313 CrPC,
denied the alleged incriminating materials against them and simply stated
that they have been falsely implicated in the present case.

10. In the case of Bipin Kumar Mondal - versus- State of
West Bengal, 2010 [12] SCC 91, the Hon'ble Apex Court reiterated the
principle stated that it is not the quantity but the quality that is material.
The honored principle is that evidence has to be weighed and not
counted. The test is whether the evidence has a ring of truth, is cogent,
credible, trustworthy and reliable.

11. From the aforesaid exposition of law, it is quite clear that it is
not the number and quantity, but the quality that is material. It is the duty
of the court to consider the trustworthiness of evidence on record which
inspires confidence and the same has to be accepted and acted upon.

12. It is an admitted fact that prosecution side has not produced
the seized birth certificate of victim as per seizure list [Ext.5] prepared by
|.0.[PW7]. The seizure list [Ext.5] prepared by |.0.[PW7] shows that date of
birth of victim[PW3] as per seized birth certificate is 05.05.2008 and same
was issued on 30.12.2011 by the Barpeta Municipal Board. However, as
the seized birth certificate of victim was not produced during trial, so it

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 14 of 22
cannot be hold on the basis of seizure list[Ext.5] only that victim was aged
less than 18 years of age, at the time of incident.

Ls . In the case of Jarnail Singh -versus- State of Haryana,
Criminal Appeal No.1209/2010 decided on 01.07.2013, the Honble
Apex Court held that Rule 12 of Juvenile Justice [Care and Protection of
Children] Rules, 2007 would be applicable while determining age even for
child, who is victim of the crime. The said rule is as follows :

“12. Procedure to be followed in determination of age.

iii. IN every case concerning a child or juvenile in conflict with law, the
age of determination inquiry shall be conducted by the court or the
Board or, as the case may be, the Committee by seeking evidence
by obtaining -
a) [I] the date of birth certificate from the school [other than a play

school] first attended; and in the absence whereof;

[ii] the birth certificate given by a Corporation or a Municipal
Authority or a Panchayat ;

[iii] the Matriculation or equivalent certificate, if available;

b) And only in the absence of either [I], [ii] or [iii] of clause [a] above, the
medical opinion will be sought from a duly constituted Medical Board,
which will declare the age of the Juvenile or child. In case exact
assessment of the age cannot be done, the Court or Board or, as the case
may be, the Committee, for the reasons to be recorded by them, may, if
considered necessary, give benefit to the child or juvenile by considering
his/her age on lower side within the margin of one year and, while passing
orders in such case shall, after taking into consideration such evidence as
may be juvenile, or the medical opinion, as the case may be, record a
finding in respect of his/her age and either of the evidence specified in
any of the clauses [a] [I], [ii], [iii] or in the absence whereof, clause[b]
Shall be conclusive proof of the age as regards such child or the juvenile in

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 15 of 22
conflict with law.

14. In the present case, the victim gave her statement before the
learned Magistrate on 27.05.2019 and stated her age to be 13 years. The
M.O.[PW1], who examined the victim on 25.05.2019, opined that victim is
above 14 years and below 16 years as per her Medical examination
Report[Ext.1]. Moreover, victim was studying in Class VII at the time
incident as recorded by learned Magistrate while recording her statement
u/s 164 CrPC [Ext.3]. Further, victim also disclosed her age to be 13 years
before the police while giving her statement u/s 161 CrPC. The FIR [Ext.2]
lodged by mother of the victim [PW2] also disclosed the age of the victim
as 13 years at the time of alleged incident.

It may be mentioned here that mother of victim cum
informant of the case asserted in her cross examination that birth
certificate of victim was immediately obtained after the birth of victim and
photocopy of same is available in the case record. The photocopy of birth
certificate also corroborates the testimony of PW2 and contents of seizure
listExt.5].

15. Under the circumstances and as per Section 2(d) of the
POCSO Act, 2012, the victim is found below 18(eighteen) years of age at
the time of incident.

16. It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole
evidence of a child witness is permissible, if such witness is found
competent to testify and the court, after careful scrutiny of its evidence.

In the case of Dattu Rarao Sakhare-versus-State of
Maharastra, report in (1997)5 SCC 341, the Hon'ble Apex Court has
held that --”A child witness if found competent to depose to the
facts and reliable one, such evidence could be the basis of
conviction. In other words, even in the absence of oath, the
evidence of a child witness ca_ be considered under section 118
of Indian Evidence Act, provided that such witness is able to

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 16 of 22
understand the questions and able to give rational answers
thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof
would depend upon the circumstance of each case. The only
precaution which the could should bear in mind while assessing
the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be
reliable one and his/her demeanor must be like any other
competent witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored”.

17. In another case, i.e. Pancchi-versus- State of uttar
Pradesh, AIR 1998 SC 2726, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that ---”/It
is not the law that if a witness is a child, his/her evidence shall be
rejected, even if it is found reliable. The law is that evidence of a
child witness must be evaluated more carefully and with greater
circumspection because a child is susceptible to be swayed by
what others tell them and this child witness is easy prey to
tutoring”.

18. The ratio as laid down in the above case is that the testimony
of a child witness is attributed the same kind of credibility that it attached
to the statement of any other witness if the testimony is consistent. In the
present case, the victim (PW2) has been consistent on the material
particulars with regard to the incident. Further, there is full corroboration
by other witnesses.

Moreover, there no material on record, to show that either
victim or informant had any enmity with the accused persons prior to the
incident to hold that false case has been lodged against the accused
persons. | don't find any reason to hold that informant has lodged a false
case against the accused persons, who were working in their house for
construction of a latrine, under Govt. scheme. The accused were not

known fully to the informant and her victim daughter prior to the incident.
19. In the light of the evidence of the victim as well as the other
witnesses, this court can presume under Section 29 of The Prevention of

Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 that it was the accused Jiyaur

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 17 of 22
Rahman and Fulchan Ali, who had committed sexual assault upon the
victim and sexual intent required as per Section 7 of POCSO Act, 2012 can
also be presumed in the light of Section 30 of the Act. It was for the
accused persons to rebut that neither they had any sexual intent nor they
had committed the offence by proving to the contrary. No ebvidence was
led by the accused persons in their defence to prove their innocence. On
the contrary, the defence put forwarded by the accused in this case is not
consistent and therefore, same is required to be disbelieved.

20. The accused were charged under Section 8 of The Prevention
of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which reads as follow -

7. Sexual assault - Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina,
penis anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does any
other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without

penetration is said to commit sexual assault.

21. The punishment for sexual assault is laid down under Section
8 of The Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which
states as follows :

8. Punishment for sexual assault - Whoever, commits sexual assault,
Shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
shall not be less than three years but which may extend to five years, and
Shall also be liable to fine.

22. In view of my aforesaid discussions in the foregoing
paragraphs, | am_ of the opinion that prosecution has proved the case
against accused Jiyaur Rahman and Fulchan Ali under Section 7 of the The
Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and they are liable
to be punished as per provision of Section 8 of The Prevention of Children
from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Hence, both the accused persons are
convicted under Section 7 of The Prevention of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 18 of 22
23. However, from the discussions, as made hereinabove, | don't
find sufficient materials against both the accused persons for committing
offence u/s 376/511 IPC. Hence, | acquit both the them from the said
charges.

SENTENCE HEARING

24. Both the accused persons are heard on the point of sentence.

Both the accused persons have submitted that they have got
two children each and there is none to look after them, in their absence.
They have also stated that they were not convicted, earlier, in any
criminal case, prior to this case. Both the accused persons have prayed

for leniency.

25. | have heard learned Defence Counsel for the accused as well
as Sri Lalit Ch. Nath, learned Public Prosecutor, Barpeta.

It is seen that crime against young girls are on the rise in the
society. Lenient conviction will give wrong signal to the society.

Hence, accused Jiyaur Rahman and Fulchan Ali are
sentenced to undergo RIGOROUS IMPRISONMENT for O4[four] years
and also to pay a fine of Rs.1000/-(Rupees one thousand) each, in
default of payment of fine, to suffer RIGOROUS IMPRISONMENT for
L[one] month for the offence under section 8 of the Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. | am of the considered
opinion that considering the nature of offence, this sentence shall do
justice.

The period of detention already undergone by the accused
during investigation and trial shall be set off from the period of

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 19 of 22
imprisonment imposed on him under section 428 of CrPC.

26. Now, coming to the aspect of compensation to the victim,
who is a minor girl, the Hon'ble Apex Court has time to time observed that
Subordinate courts trying the offences of sexual assault have the
jurisdiction to award the compensation to the victims being an offence
against the basic human right and violation of Article 21 of the Indian
Constitution.

In the case of Bodhisattwa Gautam -versus- Subhra
Chakraborty, AIR 1996 SC 922, it has been held by the Hon'ble Apex
Court that the jurisdiction to pay compensation has to be treated to be a
part of overall jurisdiction of the courts trying the offences of rape, which
is an offence against basic human rights as also the Fundamental Rights
of Personal Liberty & Life.

27. The concept of welfare and well being of children is basic for
any civilize society and this has a direct bearing on the state of health and
well being of the entire community, its growth and development. It has
been time and again emphasized in various legislation, international
declarations as well as the judicial pronouncements that the Children are
a “supremely important national asset” and the future well being of the
nation depends on how its children grow and develop.

Therefore, in order to provide restorative and compensatory
justice to the victim, | hereby direct the Secretary, District Legal
Services Authority, Barpeta to grant adequate compensation to the
victim(PW2). The said amount shall be used for the welfare of the victim.

28. Free copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused
immediately.
29. Send copy of this Judgment to the District Magistrate,

Barpeta under section 365 Cr.P.C.
Another copy of this judgment be sent to the Secretary.
D.L.S.A., Barpeta for information.

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 20 of 22
30. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 23rd day
of September, 2019.

Special Judge, Barpeta.

Typed by me

(Kavery Das, Stenographer)

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 21 of 22
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Dr. Renuka Rangpharpy, the M.O.,
P.W.2 = Mira Das, the informant,
P.W.3 = Gitismita Das, the victim,
P.W.4 = Diganta Das,
P.W.5 = Subhash Ch. Das,
P.W.6 = Manalisha Madhab Bhakta, the I.O.,
P.W.7 = Dhanmani Deka, the I.0.,
(B) Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1 = Medical report,
Ext.1(1) & 1(2) = Signature of Dr. Renuka Rangpharpy,
Ext.2 = F.LR.,
Ext.2(1) & 2(2) = Signature of Mira Das,
Ext.3 = Statement of victim u/s 164 CrPC,
Ext.3(1) = Signature of victim,
Ext.4 = Seizure List,
Ext.4(1) = Signature of Mira Das,
Ext.4(2) = Signature of Diganta Das,
Ext.4(3) = Signature of Subhash Ch. Das,
Ext.5 = Seizure List,
Ext.5(1) = Signature of Mira Das,
Ext.6 = Sketch Map,
Ext.6(1) = Signature of Dnanmani Deka, the 1.0.,
Ext.7 = Charge Sheet,
Ext.7(1) = Signature of Dnanmani Deka, the 1.0.

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 22 of 22
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special POCSO 109 of 2019 Page 23 of 22
