Page 1 of 24

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s

313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

22 OF 2015
(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 1594 of
2015)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Subal Dey,
Son of Late Trejendra lal Dey,
Resident of Ward ‘No. 4, Dhekiajuli
Town,
Police Station — Dhekiajuli
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam

09/02/2016

21/03/2016,09/06/2016,
03/08/2016,08/08/2016,
20/08/2016 & 17/04/2017.

29/09/2016.

28/07/2017

10/08/2017

Mr. M.Ch. Baruah,
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. P. Biswas, Advocate.

 
Page 2 of 24

JUDGMENT
1. In this case accused Sri Subal Dey is put for trial for allegation
of charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.
Zz. The factual matrix according to the FIR, in brief, is that on or

about 12.30 p.m. of 29-06-2015 accused enticing the minor daughter of
the informant while she went to his shop for marketing, took-her to-his
house and raped her in his house. After committing,.the. offence,
accused threatened her to kill if she disclosed the matter to other
persons. As the informant’s wife came to know, about the oozing of
blood from the private parts of their minor daughter, so, they suspected
that it is a case of rape committed by. the accused. As the minor
daughter of the informant out of fear-did not disclose about the incident
to them in time so it becomes-delay.in lodging the FIR. Hence, this
prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed=by informant Sri Naba Kumar Majumdar
before the O/C of Dhekiajuli Police station on 01-07-2015. On being
receipt the ejahar,.the O.C Dhekiajuli P.S. registered the case vide
Dhekiajuli P.S. Case No. 383/2015 under Section 376 (f) of the IPC read
with section.4_of POCSO Act. After completion of usual investigation,
The_O/C of Thelamara PS sent up the case for trial against the accused
Sri Subal Dey by filing charge sheet under Section 376 (f) of the IPC
read with section 4 of POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, my learned
predecessor-in-Court, after hearing both parties, framed charge under
section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused Sri Subal Dey and
particulars of the charge was read over, explained to the accused to
which he pleads not guilty and claims to be tried.

5: To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 6
(six) numbers of witnesses and also one court witness.

6. After completion of prosecution evidence accused is examined

u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and

 
Page 3 of 24

evidence appears against the accused are put before him for
explanation where he denied the evidence and allegation. In the
statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C., the accused stated that he has been
suffering from illness since his childhood. Initially the illness was caused
due to septic of his left ear. Thereafter, sometimes he becomes mental
illness. To buttress the defence accused examined one witness as DW 1.

7. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels
of both sides.

8. The point for decision in this case is that:

1. Whether on 29-06-2015, at about 12.30 noon. at your
residence, at Ward No.4, Dhekiajuli_under-Dhekiajuli Police
station, accused committed penetrative sexual assault on
Miss X (aged about 10 years.) ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

9. To arrive at the judicial. decision, let me appreciate the evidence

on record.

10. PW 1, Dr. Ila.Rajkhowa, deposed that on 01-07-15 she was
posted as Sr. Medical. & Health Officer in the Kanaklata Civil Hospital,
Tezpur and.on that day, at about 1.15 p.m. in the emergency outdoor,
labour room. complex of KCH, Tezpur, she examined Smt. Payel
Majumdar, 10 years, D/O Sri Naba Kr. Majumdar of village Monojuli
PS- Dhekiajuli, in reference to Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 383/15 U/s 376(f)
of IPC, on being escorted and identified by Woman Home Guard Bina
Borah of Dhekiajuli PS in presence of GNM sister. On examination she

found the following:

Identification mark — multiple black mole both sides on face.
Height — 136 cm., Weight — 34 Kg, Teeth — 6 in all four
quadrants. LMP not attained puberty. History of bleeding per vagina on
Monday two days before the examination. At the time of examination,
the girl was found of normal built according to her age mentioned in the

requisition form. She was well dressed, neat and tidy. Her breast and

 
Page 4 of 24

areola are not developed. Axillary and pubic hair not developed. Vulva

and vagina not fully developed. There is presence of mild abrasion in

the left side of vagina in the perineal region. No fresh bleeding present
per vagina at the time of examination.
Investigation given and report-

1. Vaginal smear examination was not given as the victim girl does not
give consent to do vaginal PV examination to take smear for vaginal
smear examination. So the patient was referred to Gynecologist.
Since the victim girl does not give consent to examined by
Gynecologist. Therefore investigation given could not bedone.

2. X-ray for age determination (hand, wrist joint, elbow joint and iliac
crest) given.

3. Sonography of pelvis given.

X-ray report:

4. Determination ( wrist joint,-elbow. joint and iliac crest) Done at
Assam X-ray Clinic & Laboratory’ by Radiologist Dr. P.K. Barman on
17-09-2015

Impression : Age of the-person under investigation is appears to be below
11 years.

OPINION:

1. There is recent sexual intercourse happen or not
cannot tell since vaginal smear examination can
not be given since the victim girl does not give
consent to do vaginal PV examination to take
smear for vaginal smear examination.

2. Age of the person under investigation is appears
to below 11 years.

3. There is presence of mild abrasion in the left side
of the vagina in the perineal region.

4. There is no other violence or injury found in other

parts of the body
Ext. 1 is the Medical Report and Ext. 1(1) is her signature.

 
Page 5 of 24

In cross-examination, she admitted that the abrasion may be
caused if a girl tried to climb a rope or rough substance, such injury
may be caused. Apart from abrasion, she found no injury in other parts.
As vaginal smear was not given she could not opined as regards

whether there is recent sexual intercourse or not.

11. PW 2 Sri Naba Kumar Mazumdar, the father of victim and
complainant stated that the incident took place on or about 12.30\noon
of 29-06-2015. At the time of incident, he went to the Officeof the SDC
at Dhekiajuli. At about 1 p.m. he returned home. At home.he”saw his
daughter (victim) was lying sleep. While he enquired the matter his wife
suspected that their daughter attained puberty. In the-next day, when
the bleeding of their daughter was stopped, they asked their daughter
she did not state anything initially out of fear but lateron she stated that
accused with a lure of giving chips took her to his house. In his house,
accused after opening her pant inserted his male organ into her private
parts. For this incident there was~a hue and cry in his village then
accused immediately left his shop. Accused threatened the victim not to
disclose the matter to anyone so she initially did not disclose the matter
to anyone. On-04-07-2015 he filed the ejahar. In the ejahar he has
clearly stating the’reason for lodging the same in late. Ext. 2 is the

ejahar and ‘Ext 2(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination, he admitted that at the relevant time
accused was suffering from illness of ear. Though he has been exposed
to long cross-examination the evidence as to — at the relevant time
accused with a lure of giving chips took his minor daughter to his house
and there he committed rape and for which a hue and cry was arose, as
the accused threatened in dire consequence to the victim so initially she
did not disclose about the matter to them but lateron she disclosed
about the incident. On 01-07-2015 he lodged the ejahar, Ext. 2 has

remained unchallenged.

12. PW3 Smt. Mousumi Mazumdar, mother of the victim, stated that

in the year 2015 her victim daughter came from school after attending

 
Page 6 of 24

her last half yearly examination. During that time her daughter was
attained about 10 years. Accused came to their house, took her victim
daughter to his house for playing. After about 10/15 minutes their
daughter came to their house with bleeding from her private parts. She
suspected her daughter attained puberty. On arrival of her husband,
she told about the incident to him. But in the next day, while the
bleeding was stopped, on being asked the victim daughter stated that
she sustained hurt in her bed. While she opened her pant she noticed
some injury in her private parts. Then, aunt of the victim Geeta Dey
Aice while asking the victim, the victim stated that accused by opening
her pant committed rape on her. Victim also stated to her that accused

threatened her to kill if she disclosed the matter to. others.

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions, the evidence as.to — on the day of incident,
the accused called her minor daughter to his house, after 10/15 minutes
her victim daughter returned ‘with bleeding, she suspected that her
daughter attained puberty,.in-the next day when the bleeding was
stopped, while she asked her daughter, she stated that she sustained
hurt on his bedyswhile she opened her daughter’s pant, she noticed
injury on her private parts, while Geeta Aice, the “pehi” of the victim
asked her, ‘victim stated that accused by opening her pant committed

rape-onsher has remained unchallenged.

13;. PW 4 the victim, examined after testing her intelligence. She
stated that on the day of incident at about 12.30 p.m. on returning from
school, accused called her to their home to playing with his nephew.
Accused came to bring water from their home. Accordingly, she went to
the house of the accused. In his house, accused closed the door, while
she resisted accused threatened her, then accused after opening his
pant inserted his sexual organ into her private parts. Then she sustained
hurt and blood was also coming from her private parts. Accused again
threatened her to kill if she disclosed the matter to any other persons.

Then she returned to her home. Her mother noticed her bleeding. Out

 
Page 7 of 24

of fear she did not disclose anything to their family members. In the
next day, she told about the incident to her mother and her Pehi Geeta
Aice. She also narrated the whole story to her father. Then she was
taken to the hospital. Her statement was also recorded through the
learned Magistrate. Ext. 3 is her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C and Ext. 3(1)

and 3(3) are her signatures.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she called accused as
“dada”. Accused never suffering from any mental disease. After the
incident local public enraged and setting fire to the house of the
accused. Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination
except giving many suggestions the evidence as\to»—’at the relevant
time she was called to the house of the accused, at home accused by
closing the door, opening her dress, threatening her, inserted his private
parts into her private parts and as.a result she has been bleeding and

sustained hurt has remained unchallenged.

14. PW 5 Sri Ranjit Saikia has stated that on 03-07-2015 he was
posted at Dhekaijuli Police station as SI of Police and on that day, the
then O/C of Dhekiajuli Police Station endorsed him this case for
investigation. Accordingly, he has thoroughly perused the case diary. It
cames to know that earlier I.O0. SI Naren Sonowal has already
completed. the preliminary investigation and on the basis of the said
preliminary investigation he has submitted the charge sheet against the
accused Subal Dey u/s 376(f) r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act. Ext. 4 is
the charge sheet and Ext. 4(1) is his signature.

15. PW 6 Sri Naren Sonowal, SI of Police stated that on 30-06-2015
he was working as attached Officer at Dhekiajuli Police Station. On that
day, at 9.30 p.m., the then O/C of Dhekiajuli Police station informed him
that in Ward No. 4 of Dhekiajuli town got information while he was on
patrolling duty that one Subal Dey has committed sexual assault on the
victim. The neighbouring people assembled there. On receipt of
information, O/C Dhekiajuli PS directed him for investigation and
accordingly they made a GD Entry being No. 729 dt. 30-06-2015 of

 
Page 8 of 24

Dhekiajuli PS at about 9.30 p.m. Thereafter, he reached at the place of
occurrence at about 10 p.m. He recorded the statement of the victim
and other witnesses, prepared the sketch map. On the same day he

also sent the victim to Kanaklata Civil Hospital for medical examination.

In the next day, he sent the victim to the learned Magistrate to
record the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. After recording the
statement he has collected the said statement. After giving. proper
treatment accused was produced before the learned Magistrate on 03-
07-2015. After collecting medical certificate he has completed the
investigation. On 27-07-2015 he was transferred and so handed over
the case diary to the then O/C of Dhekiajuli Police’Station. During
investigation, on 01-07-2015 O/C Dhekiajuli, PS Sri Tileswar Saikia
received an ejahar from Naba Kr. Mazumdar, S/O Narendra Mazumdar
of Ward No. 5 of Dhekiajuli.

During cross-examination, he admitted that at the time of
visiting at the place of occurrence, they found the victim in normal
condition and therefore, he has recorded her statement at the spot. He
has recorded the-statement of Naba Mazumdar at about 10.35 p.m.
Public of the locality on enraged attempted to set fire the house of the

accused.

As they were busy in controlling the local public so he forget to
mention about the incident of setting fire in the case diary. They
returned to the police station at about 11.45 p.m. He has not got any
information if the accused is mentally retarded person. After attempt to
commit suicide by the accused, as per doctor’s advice they have send
the accused to LGB Mental Health Institute, Tezpur. After receiving the
FIR he did not visit the place of occurrence as they have already
conducted the investigation. He has recorded the statement of
witnesses at the place of occurrence. None of the witnesses stated
that the accused was mentally ill. During investigation, he did not meet

Gita Aich so he could not record her statement.

 
Page 9 of 24

16. CW 1 Smt. Geeta Aich stated that she knows the accused Subal
Dey whose house is situated infront of the house of her father. The
occurrence took place on 29-06-2015. She came to know about the
occurrence on the next day. She had heard that the occurrence took
place during the day time of the previous day. In fact on the next day of
the day of occurrence she had gone to the house of her father. Her
mother informed her that the victim girl attained puberty. At that time
she wondered if such a small girl can attain puberty. She questioned the
victim about the said fact. Then she told her that the accused had
removed her pant and thereafter committed rape upon‘hery She told her
that after her return from school while she was sitting inside the house,
the accused came and called her out. The accused\came to her house
to draw water from the well and on that pretext he called the victim.
She reportedly went with the accused whenvhe called her. The victim
told her that the accused took her to his shop where he resides also.
She simply told that the accused) committed rape upon her after
removing her pant. The victim did not immediately report the matter to
her parents because the ‘accused threatened her to kill if she disclosed

the matter to any other person.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many Suggestions the evidence as to in the next day of incident,
when, she went to her father’s house, her mother informed her that the
victim, attained puberty, she was wondered such a small girl can be
attained puberty such a minor age, when she asked the victim, the
victim told her that the accused had removed her pant and thereafter

committed rape upon her has remained unchallenged.

17. When the above incriminating evidence put to the accused he
denied the same and stating as false. He stated that he is an innocent
person. He has been suffering from illness since his childhood. Initially
the illness was caused due to septic of left ear. Thereafter, sometimes it

became mental illness.

 
Page 10 of 24

It has already stated that defence examined one witness i.e.
Smt. Moni Dutta as DW 1 who stated that he heard that the
complainant has filed this case against the accused. He heard that the
accused is person sufferings from mental illness. The mother of the
accused was also suffering from mental illness. They have 3 Y2 kathas
of road side land. In that land Naba Kumar Majumdar along with some
other persons trying to occupy the same. Probably on the day of
incident accused entered into the house of the complainant and then
complainant filed this case. The accused is a mentally retarded*person.
He sometimes without any permission entered into other’s house. At
present, the accused is treated at Mental Hospital, Tezpur. In earlier

occasion he treated at Guwahati.

In cross-examination, he admitted that his house is situated at a
distance of 15/20 house from the Mouse.of the accused. He has not
seen any medical certificate of the accused. As he himself is not a
doctor so he cannot say in what illness accused suffers. He also did not
know the Dag and Patta No. and location of aforesaid 3/2 kathas of
land belongs to Subal Deyy He also did not know if there is any case

pending pertaining, to, the aforesaid land.

18. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case

19. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly,
other than the victim none has supported the prosecution case. Even
other than victim none was eye witness to the occurrence. Secondly,
there is no such injury was found not only on the private parts of the
victim but also on the other parts of the victim. In regard to presence of
mild abrasion in left side of the vagina in the perineal region as stated
by Doctor the victim herself admitted that she sustained injury on the
bed. The law is well settled that if a minor girl is forcefully raped she
must be sustained injury not only on her private parts or any other
organs of her body, but no such injury was found by doctor. Thirdly,

there is a land dispute in between the complainant and the accused

 
Page 11 of 24

which is admitted by PW 3 and also the defence witness DW 1.
Therefore, out of the said enmity, the complainant filed this false case
against the accused. Fourthly, learned counsel for the accused
submitted that even such incident is committed by the accused, the
accused at the relevant time was suffering from mental illness therefore,
he is getting the benefit in terms of General Exception provided in
Section 84 of the IPC. Fifthly, the FIR was lodged by the complainant
after 2 days of the incident without any justified reasons for delay in
lodging the ejahar and Sixthly, the statement of the victim was
recorded very lately but the cause of late examination of the victim u/s

164 Cr.P.C. was not clearly explained by the I.0O.

20. Per contra, learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond any
reasonable doubt, as such, accused is required to be convicted under

the charged section of law.

21. Keeping in mind the argument advanced by learned counsels of

both sides, I am going to dispose of the case.

22. A close-scanning of the record including the evidence of the
aforesaid witness, /it is seen that except the victim there is no eye
witness-to ‘theoccurrence. There is an evidence of prosecutrix that on
the-day.of incident after her school was over, accused came to their
house; called her to his house to play with his nephew. Accordingly, she
went there. In his house, accused closed the door, opened her dress
and accused also opened his pant and forcefully raped her. After about
10/15 minutes she returned to home with bleedings which was noticed
by her mother. On being seen the bleedings her mother suspected she
attained puberty. When on the next day bleeding was stopped her
mother asked about the matter and on seeing her private parts her
mother noticed some injury. On being asked the victim stated to her
mother that she sustained injury in her bed. She made such statement
as directed by the accused. There is an un rebuttable evidence that

accused repeatedly threatened her to kill if she disclosed the matter to

 
Page 12 of 24

her parents. So she did not disclose the matter immediately after the
incident. Then after one day her father filed this case. After instituting
the case she was medically examined at KCH, Tezpur. She was also
brought to the Court to record her statement. Though she has been
exposed to long cross-examination but the evidence as to about 12
noon of the said day, she was called by the accused to his house to play
with his nephew. Accordingly, she went there where accused closed the
door, undressed her, forcefully sexual intercourse with her, her private
part was bleeding and she sustained pain, at home on being:seen her
bleeding her mother suspected victim attained pubertyandwhen on the
next day her bleeding stopped, her mother noticed her private parts
with some injury, though victim initially stated-that she sustained injury
in the bed, she made such statement at.the direction of the accused,
but while her mother and her aunt (Pehi)‘asked her, she stated to them

about the whole incident has remained unchallenged.

23. In this case, the victim, her*parents and independent witnesses
categorically narrated about.the whole incident. Their statements are
corroborated with each other. During cross-examination, the same has
not been disputed,at.all by the defence. The victim has been consistent
with regards to the incident that on the day of incident accused called
the victim to his house, in his house he closed the door, undressed her
and-committed rape on her where she was bleeding and sustained pain
has corroborated. The victim has also stated so before the Magistrate
when her statement was recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and before the police

while her statement was recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C.

24. The unrebuttable evidence of doctor is such that she found the
victim who has not attained the puberty but there is history of bleeding
on Monday i.e. on the day of incident. Besides, the doctor also opined
that (i) there is recent sexual intercourse happen or not cannot tell since
vaginal smear examination can not be given since the victim girl does
not give consent to do vaginal PV examination to take smear for vaginal

smear examination, (ii) age of the person under investigation is appears

 
Page 13 of 24

to below 11 years, (iii) there is presence of mild abrasion in the left side
of the vagina in the perineal region and (iv) there is no other violence or
injury found in other parts of the body. Though the doctor in cross-
examination stated that abrasion may be caused if a girl tried to climb a
rope or rough substance but there is no evidence adduced by the
accused that the victim tried to climb a rope or rough substance.
Though the victim initially disclosed before her mother that she
sustained such abrasion as she sustained hurt on the bed but in“cross-
examination she admitted that accused has repeatedly directed toymake
such false statement, therefore she stated so. Due, to forceful
intercourse mild abrasion in the left side of the vagina)of the perineal

region cannot be ruled out.

25. In the present case victim was examined without taking oath by
putting some questions to test her-ability:to give rational answers and
intelligence. Apart from that PW 2, 3 and CW 1, father, mother and
aunty (Pehi) respectively ofthe victim supported the evidence of the
victim. There is nothing in. the cross-examination of any of the
prosecution witnesses..which could suggest that they were deposing
falsely in any manner. Though they have been subjected to vigorous
cross-examination,” but all the witnesses vehemently denied. PW3
mother of the victim stated that there is a quarrel for land in between
them’ but. there may be a quarrel between the parties. But, it is
impossible to think that one cannot falsely give evidence by implicating

their own minor daughter involving in such a heinous crime.

26. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of
accused is not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered
much as prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of
all reasonable doubts. However, in a case under POCSO Act, the
situation is not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to refer to the
provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

 
Page 14 of 24

27. U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain
offences and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person
has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, “as the
case may be, unless the contrary is proved.

28. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special
Court shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state
of the accused where culpable mental state is required on the part of

the accused.

29. Coming to the present case, whether the conviction can be
recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness or not?

Such type of issue.was dealt by the Hon’ble Apex Court in
Virendra — Vs — State..of U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are
reproduced as under:

“The EvidenceAct does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On the
contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may
testify = all persons shall be competent to testify unless the Court
considers that they are prevented from understanding the questions put
to them, or from giving rational answers to those questions, by tender
years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind, or any other
cause of the same kind.”

30. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has
intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational answers
thereto. The evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected
per se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with
close scrutiny and only on being convinced about the quality thereof and

reliability can record conviction, based thereon.

 
Page 15 of 24

31. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra,
(1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that a child witness if found competent
to depose to the facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis
of conviction. In other words, even in the absence of oath the evidence
of a child witness can be considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act
provided that such witness is able to understand the questions and able
to give rational answer thereof. The evidence of a child witness and
credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of each=case.
The only precaution which the Court should bear in mind» while
assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a
reliable one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent
witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored:
32. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs —
State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, itwwas held that the decision on
the question whether the child« witness has sufficient intelligence
primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his manners, his
apparent possessions or Jack of intelligence, and the said Judge may
resort to any examination, which will tend to disclose his capacity and
intelligence as well.as his understanding of the obligation of an oath.
33. In the’present case as stated above, the victim was examined
after testifying her rationally by putting some questions where she
without hesitation makes statement.
34. Another point may be discussed in the present case is that PW 2,
PW..3 and CW 1 are respectively, father, mother and aunty (Pehi) of the
victim, therefore, the question may arise as to the interestedness of
their evidence.

In state of Uttar Pradesh Vs. Jag Deo reported in AIR 2003
SC 660 it has been held that —

"Most of the times eye witnesses happen to be family members

of close associates because unless a crime is committed in a

public place, strangers are not likely to be present at the time of

occurrence. Ultimately eye witnesses have to be persons who

have reason to be present on the scene of occurrence because

 
Page 16 of 24

they happened either to be friends or family members of victim.
The law is long settled that for the mere reason that an eye
witness can be said to be an interested witness, his/her
testimony need not be rejected. For the interest of which an eye
witness may have, the court can while considering his or her
evidence exercise caution and give a reasonable discount, if
required. But this surely cannot be reason to ignore the evidence

of eye witness. ”

35. Coming to the present case, it is true that PW 2,~3.and CW 1
respectively are father, mother and aunty (Pehi) of the victim. As stated
above, there is no eye witness except the victim .as.the incident took
place inside the house of the accused so it would be futile to expect of
prosecution to produce independent outsider as a witness. More so, in
the instant case, it is not that only PW.2, 3 and CW 1 who have
supported the prosecution case, there are other evidence such as
Medical evidence as discussed‘herein above which also supported the
prosecution case. Therefore, the evidence of PW 2, 3 and CW 1 cannot
be thrown overboard simply on the ground of interestedness of their

evidence.

36. In the present case it appears that mother of the victim PW 3
admitted that there is a quarrel for a land dispute in between the
accused and them. It is not explained as to why the victim of sexual
assault would blame accused sparing real culprit. That apart, there
appears no any reason that the complainant being the father of the
victim would put his own minor daughter at stake by falsely pressing
commission of sexual intercourse. Therefore, the statement of victim is
found to be worthy of credence, convincing and reliable. As such the

charge of penetrative sexual assault is proved.

37. According to the learned counsel for the accused submitted that
the accused is a mentally retarded person so without any permission he

may enter in any of the house. For argument sake, even if committed

 
Page 17 of 24

the alleged offence, the accused is entitled to get the benefit of section
84 of the IPC.

38. Section 84 of the IPC states that nothing is an offence which is
done by a person who, at the time of doing it, by reason of
unsoundness of mind, is incapable of knowing the nature of the act, or
that what he is doing is either wrong or contrary to law.

39. To commit a criminal offence, 'mens rea’ is generally taken,to be
an essential element of crime.

40. Every normal and sane human being is expected to: prossess
some degree of reason to be responsible for his/her conduct and acts
unless contrary is proved. But a person of unsound mind or a person
suffering from mental disorder cannot be said to possess this basic norm
of human behavior.

41. In SURENDRA MISHRA Vs. STATE‘OFJHARKHAND 2011 (3) SCC
(Cri), the Honourable Apex Court observed*as under:-

The expression unsoundness of mind has not been defined in
the Indian Penal Code. It. has mainly been treated as equivalent to
insanity. But the term insanity carries different meaning in different
contexts and describes varying degrees of mental disorder. Every person
who is suffering from mental disease is not ipso facto exempted from
criminal liability. The mere fact that the accused is conceited, odd,
irascible and7his brain is not quite all right, or that the physical and
mental ailments from which he suffered had rendered his intellect weak
and. affected his emotions or indulges in certain unusual acts, or had fits
of insanity at short intervals or that he was subject to epileptic fits and
there was abnormal behavior or the behavior is queer are not sufficient
to attract the application of Section 84 of the Indian Penal Code.

42. Section 84 IPC gives statutory recognition to the defence of
insanity as developed by the Common Law of England in a decision of
the House of Lords rendered in the case of R. Vs. Daniel Mc Naughten ([
1843 RR 59: 8ER718(HL)]).

43. The law regarding insanity/unsoundness of mind has been

discussed elaborately in the recent judgement of the Apex Court in

 
Page 18 of 24

Surendra Mishra (Supra). The law laid down therein, as stated earlier, as
would be applicable to the present case, may be underlined hereunder:-

i) The accused has to prove legal insanity and not the medical
insanity.

ii) Every person who is suffering from mental disease, is not ipso
facto exempted from criminal liability.

iii) The onus of proving insanity or unsoundness of mind which is
one of the exception mentioned in Chapter IV of the Cr.P.C., lies
on the accused on preponderance of probabilities. To discharge
the onus, the accused must prove his conduct prior to-offence, at
the time or immediately after the offence, with reference to his
medical condition. Whether the accused knew that,what he was
doing was wrong or it was contrary to law is/of great importance
and may attract culpability despite mental, unsoundness having
been established.

44. It has been held in Gudulu Orang Vs. State of Assam, reported in
(2013) 2 NE) 443-

“Onus of proving unsoundness’ of mind is on the accused by
adducing evidence. Failureyto do so would not make the
prosecution blamable for failure in discharging it duties and can
not subsequently. become ground for defence to challenge the
conviction.”
45. In order to\prove a case of mental disorder or unsoundness of
mind/insanity the defence seriously relied on the conduct of the accused
immediately before he committed the offence. Learned counsel for the
accused “strenuously argued that it is the accused who entered
anybody’s house without permission and since the accused and
complainant has a land dispute, on such entering into the house of
complainant, so complainant filed this false case. Whether accused’s
behaviour of taking victim to his house and forcefully committed rape
itself is sufficient proof of his insanity or mental disorder, is to be
considered on the touchstone of law in enunciated in various case
including Surendra Misra (Supra) wherein it has been held that in order
to ascertain medical insanity it is imperative to take into consideration
the circumstances and behaviour proceeding, attending and following

the crime.There is nothing on record, how the accused was behaving

 
Page 19 of 24

just before the commission of offence or whether there was abnormal
activities in the past. Rather almost all the unofficial witnesses including
the victim unanimously stated that accused never suffered any mental
disease. They have not been heard any abnormality of the accused.
Nothing has been placed on the record by the defence that in the past
and just before the commission of offence, the accused was behaving
abnormally. Without placing any abnormal behaviour in the past and
just prior to the incident, the defence hastily demanded to treat, the
accused a man of mental disorder/unsoundness of mind simply because
he committed rape on a minor girl. Legally speaking there\is no enough
reason to exempt the accused from the criminality. The law is well
settled that every person who is suffering from*mental disorder is not
ipsofacto exempted from criminal liability and also that every man is
presume to be sane and to possesses a sufficient degree of reasons to

be responsible for his acts unless contrary is proved.

46. It has already stated\herein before that the accused has
examined on DW 1 to defend his case. It appears the said DW 1 has
appeared before the courtynot on summons but appeared on request.
Though DW 1 stated.that accused is a mentally retarded person but he
admitted that he.has not seen any such documents of treatment of
Doctor.“~Besides though he stated that the complainant and other
personshave occupied a plot of land measuring 312 kathas belonging to
the accused but he is not known any details of said land (Dag No. or
Patta No.) as to his claim of allegation of forceful occupation by the
complainant and other persons. It is true, the evidence of defence
witness is not to be ignored by the courts. Like any other witnesses, his
evidence has to be tested on the touchstone of reliability, credibility and
trustworthiness, particularly when he attempts to resile and speak
against the records in derogation of accused earlier conduct and
behaviour.

The defence of insanity is not available since the accused did not

succeed in making out that he had such a mental case when he

 
Page 20 of 24

committed the act and further that he did not know the nature of acts
committed by him by reason of such mental impairment.

47. The striking evidence on record is that accused came to the
house of the complainant for bring water, asked the victim to come to
their house to play with his nephew and when the victim go there
accused closed the door from inside, undressed her and committed rape
on her as a result she was bleeding and sustained pain. The victim was
also threatened that if she disclosed the matter to anybody, she will be
killed. Even she was directed that if someone asked her about:theinjury
sustained in her private parts she has to tell that she sustained injury on
her bed.

48. In this case, the other circumstances relied\by the prosecution

are as follows :

Firstly, there is an evidence that at-about 12 O’clock on the day
of incident accused came to the house of the complainant, called the
victim to his house to play-with.his nephew, while the victim go there,
he closed the door, accused undressed her, while she opposed accused
threatened her, then_accused by opening his pant inserted his sexual
organ into her private parts as a result, her private part was bleeding
and she sustained/injury. Secondly, other than accused at the relevant
time none was there in the room. Thirdly, on being seen the bleedings
of private_parts, her mother initially suspected that she attained puberty
but injthe next day when her bleeding was stopped, her mother opened
her pant and noticed injury on her private parts. Though initially, the
victim did not stated about the incident but ultimately victim disclosed
about the incident to her mother. Fourthly, while victim’s aunty (pehi)
asked about the incident she disclosed clearly about the incident in toto.
Fifthly, the doctor found the presence of mild abrasion on the left side
of the vagina in the perineal region. Though the doctor has been
suggested that such type of injury may be caused if a girl tried to climb
a rope or rough substance but there is no evidence that the victim
climb a rope or rough substance. Sixthly, after the incident, ultimately

the victim has reported the matter to her parents. Seventhly, there is an
Page 21 of 24

evidence that immediately after the incident, local people enraged about
the act of the accused and as such they set fire into the house of the
accused. Eighthly, though the accused taken a plea that he was
suffering from mental illness at the relevant point of time but as already
stated that there is no any instances or evidence that accused has been
suffering from such mental illness immediately before the incident or
during the period of incident. Lastly, the accused simply denied his guilt
but stated in his statement recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. that he has* been
suffering from illness since his childhood. Initially, the illness was*caused
due to septic of his left ear, thereafter, sometimes it\becomes mental

illness, but he failed to prove by adducing any evidence.

49. All these facts taken cumulatively formsa chain so complete that
there is no escape from the conclusion jthat within all human
probabilities that it is none but accusedowho committed penetrative
sexual assault to the victim in his house. These established
circumstances did not admit.of explanation of any other hypothesis then

that of the guilt of the accused Sri Subal Dey.

50. In view of the aforesaid discussions, I am of the opinion that
from the evidence of the victim, other witnesses, medical report and
other documents available in the record, the prosecution has
successfully proved the guilt of the accused Sri Subal Dey u/s 4 of the
POGSO Act. As the prosecution has failed to prove the exact age of the
victim that she was below 12 years by cogent evidence therefore, I
acquit the accused from the charge u/s 6 of the POCSO Act.

51. The accused is heard on the point of sentence. He has submitted
that he is the only earning member of his family. Hence, praying for

leniency.

52. The learned defence counsel for the convict submits that the
convict Sri Subal Dey is a man of 37 years and he is a businessman. He
was not previously convicted in any offence and he is one of the major

earning members of their family. Hence, praying for leniency.

 
Page 22 of 24

53. I have carefully considered the submissions made by learned
Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur as well as learned defence counsel. I

have also gone through the case record.

54. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court
should strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the
crime and mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case,
so far as the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor’girl was
sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only'to the body
but also to the mind of the victim and to her ‘family members, but
considering the mitigating circumstances, the. accused was hardly 37
years of age at the time of the incident. It is not brought to the notice of
this Court that before this incident, the accused had committed any
other offence. The statute u/s:4 of POCSO Act prescribes minimum
punishment for a term of seven years with fine. When the intention of
the legislator is to impose stringent punishment for not less than seven
years, this court has no option but to impose minimum punishment of
seven years.
ORDER

55. I.convict the accused Sri Subal Dey u/s. 4 of POCSO Act and
sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 7 (seven) years and also to
pay a‘fine of Rs.5000/- (Rupees five thousand only), in default, Rigorous
Imprisonment for 1 (one) month for the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act.
The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from the
period of imprisonment, imposed on him according to the procedure of
428 of Cr.P.C.

56. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement
of witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an

amount of Rs. 30,000/- (Rupees thirty thousand) only is awarded as

 
Page 23 of 24

compensation. The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority,
Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to give the compensation to the father of the

victim after proper enquiry.

Let a copy of the Judgment be sent to the Secretary, District
Legal Aid Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur for her necessary action.
57. | Acopy of this judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost
immediately.
58. Let another copy of Judgment be sent to learned District

Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur, u/s 365 of Cr.P.C.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court-on this the 10°
day of August, 2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected_by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
Go G1 om bs I

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6

1. Court witness

1. Defence witness

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4

Page 24 of 24

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- Dr. I. Rajkhowa, M.O.

:- Sri Naba Kumar Mazumdar,
= Smt. Mausumi Mazjumdar.
:“ Victim

- Sri Ranjit Saikia, 1.0.

i- Sri Naren Sonowal, I.O.

Court Witness.

- Smt. Geeta Aich:

Defence Witness.

!- Sri Moni Dutta.

EXHIBITS.

= Medical report
- Ejahar
- statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C

'- Chargesheet.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
