IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: TINSUKIA

District: Tinsukia
Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 36 (M) of 2017

U/s 4 of the POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM —___haacaeesacseeceeeeeesenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Raju Urang @ Bijoy
S/o- Lt Sukdeo Urang
R/o- Borgulai Telkhad Basti, Moran Bagan
P.S- Margherita
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM ok. eeeeeeeeeee tees eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the Complainant
S. Sarma,
Advocate under D.L.S.A ..........085 For the accused.
Date of Argument: 06/07/2018

Date of Judgment: 12/07/2018

JUDGMENT
PROSECUTION CASE

1. The prosecution case revolves around an allegation of
committing penetrative sexual assault by the accused upon
his step-daughter.

2. The ejahar in this case has been lodged by the mother
of the victim. She has alleged that on the day of occurrence at
about 7 pm, the accused had committed penetrative sexual
assault upon his 11 years old daughter in the leaf house of the
tea garden. In the ejahar it has further been alleged that on
30/04/2017, at about 2 pm, while the victim girl was going to
the forest to collect firewood, then also the accused had
allegedly committed penetrative sexual assault upon the
victim girl. The informant also alleged that on the next day i.e
on Sunday at about 6 pm, while the informant was absent in
her house, the accused had entered into her house and
thereafter committed penetrative sexual assault upon the

victim girl.

3. During the trial of the case, the victim girl was
subjected to medical examination. The medical report goes
like this:-
"Identification mark- Small black mole at the extensor
surface of right thumb.

History- Alleged history of elopement four days back.
Not attained puberty.

Mental state- healthy. height- 3 feet. Weight- 30 kg.
Teeth- 28. Abdomen- soft. Breasts- developing. Areola-
present. Nipples- present, normal. Scalp hair- present. Pubic
hair- not seen. Axillary hair- not seen. Genitals- normal. Vulval
injury- not present. Labia minora and majora- Normal. Hymen-
not intact. Vagina- normal. Uterus- Not palpable. Vaginal
discharge/bleeding- not present at the time of examination.
Injuries on the body other than those on genitals- not present.

Radiological examination done at LGB Civil Hospital. Her
age is between 7 to 9 years. Ultra-sonography of abdomen
done at Margherita Civil Hospital, which shows normal study.

Report of laboratory examination of vaginal smear-
supplied vaginal smear does not show any spermatozoa."

4. The doctor opined in the report that the victim was 7 to
9 years old at the time of examination. The doctor also opined
that it could not be ascertained as to whether the victim was
raped or not.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

5. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed penetrative sexual

assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

6. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as seven
witnesses, including the Doctor, who examined the victim at
the time of investigation and the police Investigating Officer.
The defence plea is total denial. The accused was directed to
enter defence, but he declined to adduce evidence. | have
carefully gone through the prosecution evidences.

J. Considering the nature of the offence, | shall first take
up the evidence of the victim girl. The victim girl has stated
that on one day on the pretext of searching for lost money,
the accused took her to the leaf house of the garden and there
she was laid down on the ground and after removing her
pants, the accused had tried to insert his penis into her
vagina, but he failed. The victim has stated that while she had
gone to the forest to collect firewood, at that time also the
accused tried to push his penis into her vagina, but that time
also he failed. The victim has further stated that on one
occasion while her mother was absent in the house, then the
accused had come to her house and after removing her pant
he tried to insert his penis into her vagina. The victim has
stated that after 6/7 days latter, when she was going to Tipong
with her other, then she disclosed before her mother about
the said occurrence. The victim girl has stated that her mother
had lodged an ejahar before police and some villagers had
apprehended the accused and handed him over to the police.

8. During the cross examination, the victim has stated
when the accused took her to the leaf house of the garden, it
was about 2 pm, and at that time some labourers were

plucking tea leaves in the garden. The victim has stated
before the defence counsel that when the accused tried to
insert his penis into her vagina, her mouth was not gagged by
his hands. The victim has also stated that she shouted for
help, but no one came forward. According to the victim, when
she came out of the leaf house after the occurrence, she did
not disclose before the people, who were plucking tea leaves
that the accused had tried to commit penetrative sexual
intercourse with her. The victim girl has stated that she did not
inform her mother also that night about the occurrence that
took place. While the victim was collecting firewood, the
victim has stated that in that area also some women labourers
also plucking tea leaves This time, the victim girl has stated
that when the accused tried to insert his penis into her vagina
after removing her pants, she did not shout for help. The
victim has stated that at that time also she did not tell anyone
about the aforesaid facts. According to the victim, though she
slept with her mother that night, then also she did not tell her
mother about the aforesaid facts. The victim further stated
that on that day, on which the accused tried to commit rape
upon her, she did not raise any alarm, nor did she tell her
mother about the aforesaid facts.

9. The victim has stated before the defence counsel that
the accused is her step-father and she did not like her.

10. The mother of the victim girl has also stated inter alia
that she asked her daughter as to why she did not inform her
earlier about those incidents, then her daughter told her that
the accused threatened her with dire consequences, if she
disclosed the matter to any one else. At the time of cross
examination, the mother of the victim girl has stated that
when the accused had taken the victim girl to the leaf house
of the garden, she was present in her house. The mother of
the victim also stated before the defence counsel that after
about 4 months of the occurrence, her daughter had informed
her about the same.

11. The witness Padam Lama has stated that one day the
mother of the victim girl informed him that her husband had
attempted to commit rape upon her daughter. He has stated
that on that day at about 11 am, some women had brought
the accused to his shop and he was trussed to a tree. He has
stated that the victim was also present there in front of his
shop at that time and sometime latter, police came and took
away the accused.

12. The witness Sumon Tanti is a hearsay witness and she
heard that the accused had committed rape upon his own
daughter.

13. The evidence of Sumpi Lama is a verbatim reproduction
of what Sumon Tanti has stated.

14. The S.I Jatin Saikia spoke about the investigation.

15. Now, | shall take up the evidence of Doctor, who had
examined the victim. She has stated that she could not
ascertained as to whether the victim was raped or not. Her
report disclosed that there were no injuries upon the private
parts of the victim.

16. In this case, the victim has stated that on three
occasions the accused had tried to insert his penis into her
vagina and on all these three occasions, he failed. It is an
admitted fact that immediate after the occurrence, on each
occasions, the victim never disclosed about it to her mother.
The victim also admitted in her evidence that she did not like
her step-father.

17. The mother of the victim has stated that after about
four months of the occurrence, her daughter informed her
about those facts.

18. Here at this stage, | have no doubt that in this case the
victim is the only eye witness to the occurrence. On three
occasions, her step-father attempted to commit rape upon
her, but she did not inform her mother about those facts,
rather she informed her mother after about an exceptionally
long period of delay. Furthermore, she has admitted that there
were some people near the said leaf house, who were plucking
tea leaves, when she was allegedly sexually assaulted in the
leaf house of the garden, but even then she did not tell them
about those facts. Moreover, the medical evidence also failed
to support a case of sexual assault upon the victim girl.

19. In Panchhi & Ors vs. State of U.P : (1998) 7 SCC
177, the Supreme Court has held --

The evidence of child is required to be evaluated carefully
because he is an easy prey to tutoring. Therefore, always the
court looks for adequate corroboration from other evidence to
his testimony.

20. In State of U.P. v. Ashok Dixit [2000 (3) SCC 70]. it
has been observed in paragraph 9:

“Law Is well settled that evidence of a child witness must be
evaluated carefully as a child may be swayed by what others
tell him and as an easy prey to tutoring. Wisdom requires that
evidence of a child witness must find adequate corroboration
before it is relied on (see Panchhi v. State of U.P). However it
is a question of fact in each case, and there is no universal
rule that the evidence of a child witness, even if it cannot be
dislodged on the test of facts and probabilities of a particular
case can never be sufficient for convicting an accused without

corroboration.

21. The Supreme Court in State of M.P. v. Ramesh and
Anr., (2011) 4 SCC 786) has examined the law relating to
deposition by Child Witnesses. While examining the law on the
aspect the Court has observed that the deposition of a child
witness may require corroboration, but in case his deposition
inspires the confidence of the Court and there is no
embellishment or improvement therein, the Court may rely
upon his evidence. The evidence of a child witness must be
evaluated more carefully with greater circumspection because
he is susceptible to tutoring. Only in case there is evidence on
record to show that a child has been tutored, the Court can
reject his statement partly or fully. However, an inference as to
whether the child has been tutored or not, can be drawn from
the contents of his deposition.

22. Thus under the premised reasons and under the settled
position of law, pertaining to appreciation of evidences of child
witness, | am of the considered opinion that the evidence of
the victim girl failed to inspire confidence. Therefore, | have
reasons to hold that the evidence of penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim has not been proved against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubts.
ORDER

23. In the result, the accused Sri Raju Urang @ Bijoy is
found not guilty and accordingly the accused is acquitted from
this case. Presently, the accused is in judicial custody, so he
be set at liberty forthwith.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
12th day of July, 2018.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia

A P PEN ODI X

PROSECUTION WITNESSES
1. PW1 - Dr. Surabhi Borah

2. PW2 - Smti Salmi Orang @ Mura
3. PW3 -

4. PW4 -

5. PW5 -

6. PWo -

7. PW7 -

10

Smti Lakhimoni Orang
Sri Padam Lama

Smti Sumon Tanti
Smti Sumpi Lama

Sri Jatin Saikia, S.|

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1-
2. Ext. 2-
3. Ext. 3-
4. Ext.4-
5. Ext. 5-
6. Ext. 6-
7. Ext. 7-

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Medical report
USG report
Sketch map
Sketch map
Sketch map
Ejahar

Charge sheet

Special Judge

Tinsukia
