 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 08/2018
(Under Sec. 366(A)/376 of I.P.C. R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012)

State
Versus

Siddek AliLaskar  ————casesacccecuuee Accused,

PRESENT :- Sri D. Bhattacharjee, AJS,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

A rance and iculars:-
For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the Accused :- Sri A.H. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidence of PWs. :- 23.03.2018, 23.04.2018, 31.05.2018,
14.06.2018, 28.06.2018, 23.07.2018 &
05.09.2018.

Date of recording statement U/S 313 Cr.P.C. :- 18.09.2018.

Date of Argument :- 16.11.2018.
Date of Judgment :- 30.11.2018.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 28.10.2016 one

Abdul Kalam Laksar lodged an FIR with the O/C, Algapur Police Station alleging
that on 27.10.2016 at about 1 PM while he was in his work at Algapur Market,
the accused kidnapped his minor daughter (name withheld). In spite of vigorous
search, he could not trace her out till lodging the FIR.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Algapur PS Case No. 205/2016 was
registered under sec. 366(A) of IPC and SI of Police Sri J.U. Choudhury was
Contdes, Via. P/2,
 

-2-

entrusted to investigate the case. During investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, recorded the statement of witnesses, got the victim medically
examined and also got her statement recorded under Sec. 164, CrPC, arrested
the accused person and forwarded him to the court and after completion of
investigation, submitted charge sheet under Sec. 366(A) of IPC.

3 The Ld. Addl. CJM., Hailakandi in compliance with Sec. 207
of CrPC, furnished copies of relevant materials to the accused persons and since
the offence is exclusively sessions triable, committed the case to this Court.

4, On appearance of accused person, heard the Ld. Public
Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials on record,
initially the charge was framed against the accused under Sec. 366(A) of IPC.
Thereafter, the charge under Sec. 376, IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act has
been added. The charges so framed have been read over and explained to the
accused, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. The prosecution in order to prove its case, examined all
together 7 PWs including MO & IO. The defence plea is of total denial. The
accused person was examined under Sec. 313, CrPC wherein he denied all the
allegations levelled against him by the prosecution witnesses and pleaded that
due to grudge of land dispute, he has been falsely implicated in the case.

6. Heard argument of the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence Counsel.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(I) Whether the accused person on 27.10.2016 at about 1:00
P.M. at Bornagad under Algapur Police Station kidnapped the victim, minor
daughter of the informant Abdul Kalam Laskar, with intent that she may be or
knowing it likely that she will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and
thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 366(A) of I.P.C.?

(IT) Whether the accused person on 27.10.2016 at about 1:00
P.M. at Bornagad under Algapur Police Station committed rape on the victim,
COMA wrseservesenee P/3.
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 08/2018
3.

minor daughter of the informant Abdul Kalam Laskar, and thereby committed an
offence punishable under Section 376 of I.P.C.?

(ITT) Whether the accused person on 27.10.2016 at about 1:00
P.M. at Bornagad under Algapur Police Station committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim, minor daughter of the informant Abdul Kalam Laskar, and
thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012?

DISCUSSIONS, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

8 ee Se SS ee eee ren

7. The PW. 1, Abdul Kalam Laskar has deposed that the
accused is his next door neighbour. On 27.10.2016 he was in his place of work at

Algapur market, at about 3 PM he returned home and found that his wife was

searching his daughter, aged about 11 years. His wife reported him that from 1
PM their daughter was found missing from his house. They made search but with
no effect. He went to the house of accused but found him absent from the
house. On the next day, he lodged the FIR against the accused as he was too
not found in the locality. Thereafter, after 15 days, the accused took his daughter
to his (PW.1) father in law’s house situated near to his house and then they all
apprehended the accused and handed over him to police. The accused is a
married person having children. On being asked, his daughter reported him that
the accused took her to Silchar Nagatilla in a rented house. His daughter did not
tell him anything more. At the relevant time, the victim read in Class V.

In cross examination, he has stated that the house of
accused is situated to the adjacent North of his house and to the further North,
the house of his father in law is situated. In the house of accused, his sister,
nephew and nephew’s wife reside. The accused is his own uncle in law. There
are in total 12/13 members residing in the house of his father in law. He cannot
say the name of school where his daughter was studying. He cannot say the
exact date of birth of his daughter. He handed over the school certificate of his
daughter to the police. He has further stated that there is only one path to reach
Algapur market from his house and the people of entire area’ use the path. No
neighbouring people have been cited as witness by police in the case.

COM ssacatesvesers P/4,
 

 

-4-

8. The PW. 2, Mamata Begum Laskar, the mother of the
victim has deposed that on the relevant day at about 12 Noon she went to her
mother’s house keeping the victim alone in the house as she came from school.
At that time, her other children were also not in the house. At about 3 PM she
returned home from her mother’s house but did not find her daughter viz. the
victim. Her husband and son were informed, they came and started searching for
the victim. On the next day, her husband lodged the FIR. Thereafter, after 15
days, her husband saw the accused coming towards their house along with their
daughter and then her husband apprehended the accused and informed police.
Police came and took the accused. Police got her daughter medically examined
and also her statement was recorded by Magistrate under Sec. 164, CrPC. On
being asked, her daughter reported that when she was alone in the house, the
accused appeared and allured her saying that he would purchase a dress for her
and asked her to accompany him, accordingly, her daughter went with the
accused but the accused took her in a different path, not through the usual path,
used by them, thereafter, her daughter saw a black colour auto rickshaw
appeared and the accused took her in the auto rickshaw, thereafter she cannot
say anything and the accused took her at Nagatilla, Silchar where the accused
did sexual intercourse with her against her will. The PW. 2 has further stated that
the accused is her own uncle and at the relevant time, her daughter was a
student of Class V and she was aged 11 years 7 months.

In cross examination, she has stated that her mother’s
house is at a distance of 3 cubits from her house. The accused Siddek Ali has got
his sister, nephew and nephew's wife in his family. The house of accused is
around 6/7 cubits far from her house. Since the accused is her own uncle, she
had visiting terms with him. The surroundings of her house having thick
population and amongst them, the houses of Jamir Uddin Laskar, Saraf Uddin
Barbhuiya and others are adjacent to her house. The accused does not have any
landed property of his own.

9. The PW. 3, the victim has deposed that on 27.10.2016 at
about 12 PM she returned home from school and at that time, she was alone in
COM ospsccgeseénus P/5,
arth

the house. Then the accused, who is her mother’s own uncle, came to her house
and asked her to go with him as he would purchase clothe for her. She at first
refused but the accused was persistent to take her and then the accused took
her at a little distance towards a path and then he took her in a Alto vehicle.
Then, she started crying and said the accused that she would disclose the same
to her mother. The accused pressed her mouth in the vehicle. The driver asked
the accused as to why she was crying, the accused replied that she was crying
for purchasing clothe but since she was gagged, she could not say anything.
After journey of 2 hours, the accused took her in a house and kept her there for
15 days. She does not know the name of the place. During the said 15 days, the
accused committed bad acts with her for 3 times. She raised hue and cry but
none heard it, because there was no nearby house. After 15 days, the accused
took her to her house and after leaving her, he wanted to flee away but her
father caught him and handed over to police. Police got her examined medically
and her statement was recorded under Sec. 164, CrPC vide Ext. 1. She has
further stated that at the relevant time, she was 11 years old. Her father lodged
the FIR before her recovery.

In cross examination, she has stated that three wheelers
and two wheelers vehicle run over the path which connects Algapur main road
from her house. The house of her maternal grand-father is situated at the
distance of around 30 meters from her house. Her house is surrounded by the
houses of many people. Police did not take her to the house where she was kept
for 15 days. During her stay in the house, the accused provided food to her
purchasing from a shop. There was a pond near the house where she was kept,
in which she used to take path. She used to attend nature’s call outside the
house. The house was situated in a town like place. She does not know her date
of birth. She did not take any extra cloth for but the accused provided cloths to
her. There was stain including blood in her garments which she showed to the
police but the police did not seize it.

10. The PW-4, Ramjana Begum Laskar, the sister of the victim,
has deposed that the accused is the uncle of her mother. On the relevant day, at
OLD oucarvnedivane P/6,
 

RS
rt 2
at ne % pp?

Special (P T-1 . 20:

-6-

about 12:30 P.M. she and the victim returned home from school and thereafter,
keeping the victim in the home, she went to her maternal grand-father’s house
which is near to her house. After sometime, her mother came to home and
raised hue and cry. She rushed to her house and heard that the accused took
away her sister Asmina. After about 15 days, the accused secretly took her sister
but her father nabbed him.

In cross examination, she has stated that she cannot say
from whom she came to know that the accused took away her sister.

11. The PW-5, Majaraf Ali Laskar has deposed that the
accused is his younger brother. The informant is his son-in-law. About two years

’ back, at about 4 P.M. when he returned home, he heard that the victim was

missing and his daughter and other family members were crying and searching
for her. Thereafter, the informant filed the case. After 15 days, when he returned
home from market; he came to know that the accused came along with the
victim and then the informant apprehended him and handed over to police. On
beign asked, the accused told him that he stayed with the victim at Silchar.

In cross examination, he has stated that he did not see the
act of kidnapping as well as taking back of the victim by the accused. The
accused appeared with the victim during dusk hour.

12. The PW-6, Joynul Uddin Choudhury, the Investigating
Officer of the case, has deposed that on 28.10.2016, the Officer-in-charge of
Algapur Police Station received an FIR from Abdul Kalam Laskar and entrusted
him to investigate the case. During investigation, the Officer-in-charge got the
victim medically examined and also got her statement recorded under Section
164 of Cr.P.C. He examined the witnesses, visited the place of occurrence and
drew up rough sketch map thereof. The accused was arrested by the Officer-in-
charge. After completion of investigation, he submitted charge sheet against the

accused.

In cross examination, he has stated that on 10.11.2016 at
7:45 P.M. the victim was produced before police by parents. He did not make
COPED. saccannenvves P/7,
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 08/2018

pi

any inquiry about the place where the victim was kept at Silchar. Apart from the
statement of victim, there was nothing revealed during investigation whether the
victim and the accused stayed at Silchar nor not. The PW-1, Abdul Kalam Laskar
did not state before him that after 15 days of missing of his daughter, the
accused took her to house of his (PW-1) father-in-law. The PW-1 also did not
state before him that on the relevant day, his daughter returned home from
school and then she was found missing from the house and they made search
even in the house of accused person. He has further stated that the PW-2,
Mamata Begum Laskar did not state before him that about 18 months back one
day at about 12 Noon, she went to her mother’s house keeping her daughter

(victim) alone in the house and on her return at about 3 P.M. she did not find her

daughter in the house and then neighbouring people informed her husband and
her son about the same, they came and came search but could not trace her out.
The PW-2 also did not state before him that the accused took her daughter
through an unused path and thereafter an auto rickshaw appeared and her
daughter was forcefully dragged inside the said auto rickshaw and this witness
also did not statement him that after 15 days of missing of her daughter, her
husband found the accused with her daughter coming towards his house and
then her husband apprehended the accused in front of his house and after
recovery, the victim reported them that the accused forcibly committed sexual
intercourse with her. He has further stated that the PW-3, victim did not state in
her statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that the accused Siddek Ali
came to her house and told her to go with him as he would purchase clothes for
her and she refused but the accused was persistent to take her with him,
accordingly, the accused took her at a little distance towards a path and then he
took her in an Alto vehicle, then she started crying and told that she would
disclose the same to her mother , then the accused pressed her mouth, the
driver asked the accused as to why the victim was crying, the accused replied
that she was crying for purchasing clothes, since she was gagged and she was
unable to say anything and the accused took her by the said vehicle after
affording journey for around 2 hours. The PW-4, Ramjana Begum Laskar did not
state before him that she and the victim were the students of Noor Nabi Pre-

CEE hee dia rane P/8.
 

P iT N

-g-
senior Balika Madrassa. The PW-5, Majaraf Ali also did not state before him that
the accused confessed before him that he stayed with the victim at Silchar. The
1.0. has further stated that he did not examine any neighbouring people from
the place of occurrence as they were not interested to say anything.

13. The PW-7, Dr. Rehana Begum has deposed that on
11.11.2016 she examined the victim and found no mark of violence on her body
or private parts, no evidence of recent intercourse and the actual age of the
victim could not be determined due to non-availability of X-ray report.

14, In the backdrop of above evidence, at the very outset, it is
to be determined that what was the age of the victim at the relevant point of
time. The PW-1, father of the victim has deposed that at the relevant time, the
victim was aged about 11 years and a student of Class-V but in cross
examination, he has stated that he cannot say the exact date of birth of his
daughter. The PW-2, mother of the victim has testified that at the relevant time,
victim was aged 11 years 7 months and student of Class-V. The PW-3, victim has
also stated that at the relevant time, she was 11 years old but in cross
examination, she has stated that she does not know her date of birth. From the
evidence of above three witnesses, it is appeared that at the relevant time, the
victim was aged about 11 years. Though the PW-1, father of the victim has
stated in the cross examination that he handed over the school certificate of his
daughter to police but no such school certificate has been seized by the police
nor been produced before this Court. Except the oral evidence of the witnesses,
there is no documentary evidence available on record as regards age of the
victim. Now, it is to be seen, whether any opinion has been given by the doctor
who examined the victim medically, as regards age of the victim. The PW-7,
Medical Officer, who examined the victim, has testified that the actual age of the
victim could not be determined due to non-availability of X-ray report, therefore,
there is no scope of getting the radiological age of the victim. However, since the
above oral evidence of the witnesses was not denied by the defence, it is
presumed that the victim was aged about 11 years at the relevant time and she

was minor.

COM ossriesdeseess P/9.
Cf

o-

ry

geet
ans

np OPE

o

psp?

15.

 

Special (P T-1 N 2

-9-

The Ld. Special Public Prosecutor during his argument

strenuously submitted that the crime which has been committed by the accused

is proved beyond all reasonable doubt and considering the heinous nature of the

offence, the accused shall be convicted and given exemplary punishment.

Per contra, the Ld. Counsel for the defence has submitted

that the accused has been falsely implicated in the instant case only to meet the

grudge of land dispute and in support of said contention, the attention of this

Court has been drawn to the following aspects: -

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

The PW-3, victim has deposed that on 27.10.2016 at about 12 Noon
when she returned home from school and was alone in the house, the
accused who is the own uncle of her mother, came to her house and
asked her to go with him as he would purchase some clothes for her
and thereafter, she went with the accused. But in her statement
recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. vide Ext.-1 she has stated that
on 28.10.2016 while she came out of her school to purchase biscuits,
the accused appeared and told her that he would purchase biscuits
for her from market and asked her to sit in an alto car.

The PW-3 has testified that she was taken away by the accused in an
alto vehicle but the PW-2, mother of the victim who came to know
about the occurrence from the victim, has stated that the accused
kidnapped the victim from her house in an auto rickshaw.

The PW-2 has stated that she was reported by the victim that after
the victim was taken in the auto rickshaw, the victim could not say
anything but the victim has stated that when the accused started
proceeding with her with the alto vehicle, she started crying, then the
accused pressed her mouth, then the driver asked the accused about
the reason of her crying, the accused replied that she was crying for
purchasing clothes but as she was gagged, she could not say anything
and thereafter, the accused took her to Silchar.

CDG eo xcevroxe teres P/10.
(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

(viii)

 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No, 08/2018
=10-

The victim in evidence has stated that after 15 days, the accused took
her to her house and after leaving her, when the accused wanted to
flee away, her father caught him and handed over to police. The
victim in her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. has stated that
the accused brought her till Algapur and then her family members
apprehended him. The PW-1 has stated that when the accused
brought his daughter to his father-in-law’s house, which is very nearer
to his house, they all apprehended the accused and handed over to
police. But the PW-6, Investigating Officer has not stated anything to
that effect and there is no material on record to substantiate the
above fact that the accused was apprehended by the father of the
victim in his house.

The victim has stated that she does not know the name of the place
where the accused took her after two hours journey and kept her for
15 days but in her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. she stated
that the accused took her to Silchar and kept her in a room. The PW-2
has stated that she was reported by the victim and the accused took
her to Silchar in a place namely Nagatilla.

The allegation is that the accused took the victim to Silchar and
stayed there with the victim for 15 days but the Investigating Officer
did not take any step to enquire about the same, even he did not visit
the said place to ascertain the genuineness of the allegation.

The PW-5 has stated that after 15 days when the accused returned
back with the victim and was apprehended by the informant, on being
asked, the accused told him that he stayed with the victim at Silchar
but the evidence of PW-6, Investigating Officer reveals that the PW-5
did not state the same before police.

Admittedly, there are houses of many neighbouring people in and
around the house of the victim but the prosecution failed to examine
any of them.

COREG. cczee0ttedes P/11,
Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 08/2018
o4 4.

16. After hearing the submissions of the Ld. Counsels, I have
gone through the evidence available on record and found that the submission put
forwarded by the Ld. Counsel for the defence deserves some merit as points
which have been raised by him are very much basing on the evidence on record.

17. The allegation is that the victim, a minor girl was
kidnapped from her house by the accused, who is her mother’s own uncle on the
pretext that the accused would purchase clothes for her and thereafter, the
accused took her to Silchar and kept for 15 days where the accused did sexual
intercourse with her and thereafter, when the accused brought the victim in the
house of her maternal grand-father and after leaving her there, when he
attempted to flee away, he was apprehended by her father and handed over to
police. In the context of the above allegation, at first the kidnapping should be
proved and if the act of kidnapping is proved then the other aspects such as
sexual intercourse etc. would be taken for consideration.

18. As discussed above, the evidence of the victim (PW-3) and
the other witnessesas well as the FIR disclosed the date of occurrence is on
27.10.2016 but the victim in her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. vide
Ext.-1 has stated the date of occurrence is on 28.10.2016. The PW-4, the sister
of the victim has deposed that the on the relevant day, she and the victim
returned home from school together and thereafter, she went to her maternal
grand-father’s house keeping the victim alone in the house and then the victim
was kidnapped. The victim has testified that when she returned home from
school, she was alone in the house and then the accused came. Therefore, the
evidence of PWs.-4 & 3 is that they safely returned home from school and
thereafter, the victim was kidnapped from the house. But the victim in her
statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. has stated that when she came out of
school for purchasing biscuits, the accused kidnapped her and this statement of
the victim signifies that she was not kidnapped from her house and thus, due to
the inherent inconsistencies, it is very difficult for this Court to understand as to
which one of the statements of the victim is true and correct. Further, the victim
has stated in her evidence that the accused compelled her to go with him for

COME, ce cversavecens P/12.
 

jal (P T-1 : i

-12-

purchasing some clothes for her but in the statement under Section 164 of
Cr.P.C. she has stated that on the pretext of purchasing biscuits, the accused
took her. The victim testified that she was kidnapped in an alto vehicle but the
PW-2, mother of the victim, who was reported about the incident by the victim,
has stated that the victim was taken away in an auto rickshaw. Thus, it is
appeared that the evidence of the victim is highly inconsistent with her previous
statement made before Magistrate. Also, she did not state all such things before
police in her statement under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. She did not state before
police that the accused came to her house and told her to go with him as he
would purchase clothes for her and accordingly, the accused took her in an alto
vehicle and when she started crying, the accused pressed her mouth, the driver

~ asked the accused as to why she was crying, the accused replied that she was

crying for purchasing clothes but she could not say anything as she was gagged
and thereafter, the accused took her with the said vehicle after travelling two
hours. From the above, it is further appeared that the victim has developed her
earlier version.

19. The mother of the victim (PW-2) has stated that when the
accused took her daughter in the auto rickshaw, her daughter could not say
anything but from the evidence of the victim, it is found that the victim was very
much conscious and able to realise the entire acts of accused. The victim has
stated that she does not know the name of the place where she was taken by
the accused and kept for 15 days but in her statement under Section 164 of
Cr.P.C. she stated that she was taken to Silchar. Due to the above
inconsistencies in the evidence of the victim and the other witnesses as well as
her earlier statements, it is very hard to believe the case of the prosecution.
Further, the Investigating Officer did not even visit the place where the victim
was taken after kidnapping and kept for 15 days, which itself casts serious doubt
in the prosecution case and probabilizes the defence case i.e. out of grudge of
land dispute, the accused has been falsely implicated in the instant case.

20. Under the facts and circumstances of the present case as
well as taking into consideration the above contradictions and inconsistencies,
COMED, catzsendinans P/13.
Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No, 08/2018
-13-

this Court is of the opinion that the prosecution failed to prove its case against
the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.

21. Accordingly, the accused person Siddek Ali Laskar is
acquitted of the offence charged under Section 366(A)/376 of IP.C.
read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012. Set him at liberty
forthwith.

22. The bail bond of the accused person stands discharged.
23. The Special (POCSO) Case is disposed of accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 30"
day of November, 2018 at Hailakandi.

s
a

Special Judge,

 

Hailakandi.
SPEGIAL JODGB
HAILAEAND!
Special Jud j di.
pecial Ju lge, Mallakan i
HAILAEAND!
Di ion i ken and transcrib msher Bah r noar r
Grade — III.

COMME, crssecevarsens P/14.
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 08/2018
-14-

Appendix :-

Oral Evidences :-

PW-1, Abdul Kalam Laskar.
PW-2, Mamata Begum Laskar.
PW-3, Victim.

PW-4, Romjana Begum Laskar.
PW-5, Majaraf Ali Laskar.
PW-6, Jaynul Uddin Choudhury.
PW-7, Dr. Rehana Begum.

Documentary Evidences :-

Ext.-1, Statement of the victim under Section 164 of Cr.P.C.
Ext.-2, FIR.

Ext.-3, FIR Form.

Ext.-4, Rough sketch map of the place of occurrence.
Ext.-5, Charge sheet.

Ext.-6, Medical report.

Ext.-7, X-ray report.

Ext.-8, Vaginal swab examination report.

The defence declined to adduce any evidence.

\%
\-
0»
Special Judge,
Hailakandi.

SPECIAL JOPOS
HAILARAND!
