 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 18 (M) of 2016

U/s 4 Of The POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM —___haacaeesacseeceeeeeesenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Padmeswar Moran @ Melang Moran
S/o- Lt. Chokradhar Moran
R/o- No.2 Ratanipathar Village
P.S- Bordumsa
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM ok. eeeeeeeeeee tees eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor ............. For the State
Gaurab Alley,
Advocate —__acaececaececeeeeaes For the accused.
Date of Argument: 31/10/2018

Date of Judgment: 31/10/2018

U D GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. The prosecution case revolves around an allegation of
sexual assault upon a 13 years old girl. The house of the
victim girl is situated near the house of the accused. Infact,
the accused is a relative paternal uncle of the father of the
victim girl. The house of the accused and victim girl stands on
the lands having a common boundary. In the month of May
2016, like other days, the victim girl had gone to the house of
the accused. Infact, the youngest son of the accused is of the
same age as of the victim girl and therefore they have friendly
relationship. The accused has another elder son, who was
elder than the victim girl. When the victim visited the house of
the accused, the wife of the accused was absent. She found
that the mobile phone of the accused was being charged on a
table and therefore she unplugged the mobile phone and
started to watch movies in the mobile. Suddenly, the accused
entered into the room and he forcibly removed her T-shirt and
also removed her pants and thereafter took her to the bed.
After that the accused had inserted his penis into the vagina
of the victim girl. The accused had threatened the victim girl
not to disclose about the fact to anyone else or else he would
kill her. For the threatened held out by the accused, the victim
did not tell anything about the occurrence to anyone else of
her family. Thereafter, on two other occasions also the
accused had committed forcible sexual intercourse with the
victim girl, when she was alone in her own house. On one such
occasion, there was no one present in the house of the victim
girl and the accused had come there and he had committed
rape upon her. At that point time of time the father of the
victim girl returned home and on seeing him the accused left
the house of the victim. In the mean time, the father of the
victim girl had developed some suspicions, as to the manner
in which the accused and the victim were found inside the
house. The victim was interrogated by her father and she
disclosed about the facts of the case to him. Accordingly, the
father of the victim girl had lodged an ejahar before police.
During the period of investigation, the victim had given a
statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. She has supported the aforesaid
facts in her statement.

2. The victim girl was also subjected to medical
examination at the time of investigation. The Doctor's report
goes like this:-

"Identification marks:- A mole over the neck on the right
side. | took the L.T.I of the victim.

Weight- 40 kg, Height - 4 ft. 10 inches, Teeth- 24 Nos,
Breasts are not puberted. Nipples are not puberted. She did
not attend her menarchy. No vulva injury detected. Vaginal
discharge/bleeding- absent. Examination was easy.

On radiological examination- wrist fusion not seen,
elbow fusion not seen and iliac crest epichyse not see. Age is
between 9 to 12 years.
Laboratory examination- vaginal smear was taken, but

no spermatozoa were detected.

As per physical, dental and radiological examinations,
age of the victim is between 9 to 12 years. No other injury
marks detected."

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

3. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed penetrative sexual

assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as six witnesses,
which included the Investigating Officer and the Doctor, who
had examined the victim girl at the time of investigation. In
this case the witnesses are the victim, her father and her
mother and a person called Mahendra Moran. The defence
plea is total denial. | have carefully gone through the

prosecution evidences.

5. Here in this case, the victim has supported the
prosecution case in her evidence. She has been extensively
cross examined by the defence counsel, but her cross
examination has nothing materials to warrant an elaborate

discussion.

6. The father of the victim girl has stated that on the day
of occurrence at about 8 O'clock in the morning, he had
returned home from work and saw that the accused was
coming out of his house in a manner in which the accused

came out of his house caused this witness to grow suspicion.
He, therefore interrogated his daughter, who intern informed
him that the accused wanted to have sexual acts upon her.

7. The mother of the victim is a hear say witness.
Whatever she stated is based on whatever she had heard from
her daughter. The witness Mohendra Moran is also a hear say
witness. He is a member of Local Yabak Sangha. Mohendra
Moran has stated that initially the father of the victim girl had
filed an application before him, alleging that the accused had
committed rape upon his daughter. This witness advised the
father of the victim girl to file complaint before Police Station.

8. Here in this case, the medical evidence has completely
nullified the allegation of rape.

9. In Bhajan Singh Alias Harbhajan Singh and
others v. State of Haryana reported in (2011) 7 SCC 421
the Hon,ble Supreme Court held ---

Thus, the position of law in such a case of contradiction
between medical and ocular evidence can be crystallised to
the effect that though the ocular testimony of a witness has
greater evidentiary value vis-°-vis medical evidence, when
medical evidence makes the ocular testimony improbable,
that becomes a relevant factor in the process of the
evaluation of evidence. However, where the medical evidence
goes so far that it completely rules out all possibility of the
ocular evidence being true, the ocular evidence may be

disbelieved.

10. Thus, at this stage a substantial doubt is arises over
the veracity of the prosecution case itself. It is true that in
order to constitute sexual penetration, slightest penetration
would suffice and in that case there may not be any medical
evidence. But the prosecution story states that on multiple
occasions, the accused had sexual intercourse with the victim
girl. So, in such a case, there ought to have been some
medical evidence. The Doctor has stated in her evidence that
the victim was yet to attain puberty. Under the circumstances,
for lack of medical evidence | find that the offence against the
accused has not been proved beyond all reasonable doubts.
ORDER

11. In the result, the accused Sri Padmeswar Moran @
Melang Moran is found not guilty and accordingly the accused
is acquitted from this case on benefit of doubt.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
31st day of October, 2018.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

8.

. PW1 -

. PW2 -

. PW3 -

. PW4 -

. PW5 -

. PWo -

Ext.1-

Ext. 2-

Ext. 3-

Ext.4-

Ext.5 -

Ext. 6-

Ext.7 -

M. Ext.1-

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Dr. Milky Shah

Smti Porashmoni Phukan
Sri Himanta Phukan
Smti Dipali Phukan

Sri Mahendra Moran

Sri Anupam Gowala, S.|

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

Doctor's report

Advice Slip

Radiological report with X-ray plates
Statement u/s 164 Cr.PC

Ejahar

Sketch map

Charge sheet

Birth Certificate.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
