 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 18 (T) of 2018
U/s 4 of POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM — haa eaccceceeeeeeeeeeeenees Complainant.
-Versus -

Sri Ajad Rajput @ Sunil

S/o- Lt. Jugen Rajput

R/o- Gorh Basti, Tengapani No.2 Gaon

P.S- Bordubi

District- Tinsukia, ASSAM oh. eeeececeeseaeeeeaeeeees Accused.

Appearance:

Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor a... For the State
B. Sharma,
Advocat@ —__hiasaueveveueeeueeeee For the accused.

Date of Argument: 04/04/201
Date of Judgment: 04/04/2019
J} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

Li On 15/05/2018, at about 11 am, Sawan Tanti had
lodged an ejahar before police, alleging that on the previous
night at about 8 pm, when his 16 years old minor daughter
had gone to the toilet, which is situated on the backside of
their house, the accused jumped upon her and _ forcibly
committed rape upon her.

2. During the period of investigation, the victim girl was
produced before a Magistrate for recording her statement u/s
164 Cr.PC. She has stated before the Magistrate that the
accused had forcibly taken her to a jungle on the backside of
her house and thereafter, he removed her clothes and
committed rape upon her.

3. The victim girl was also subjected to medical
examination. The Doctor's report goes like this:-

"She was well oriented in space and time. Dentition- 28,
permanent. No injury was found over her entire body at the
time of examination. Genitals- pubic hair - not combining.
External genitalia- No injury over labia majora and minora and
fourchette. No vulval injury and no injury on perineum. Hymen
was found torn. Vagina and cervix (any bleeding/discharge)-
not present. No injury around anus. Urine was sent for HCG

examination and the report was negative.

Radiological examination was done for ascertaining her
age and as per radiological report, her age was between 18 to
20 years."
POINT FOR DETERMINATION

4. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim girl?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5 In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined three witnesses, including
the Doctor, who had examined the victim girl at the time of
investigation and the victim girl herself. The defence plea is
total denial. | have carefully gone through the prosecution
evidences.

6. The Dr. Rani Gogoi, who examined the victim girl at the
time of investigation has proved her report as Ext. 1.

7. The second witness to be examined is Sawan Tanti, the
informant. He has stated, inter alia that his daughter was
maintaining a love affair with the accused. According to Sawan
Tanti, his daughter told him that the accused had committed
rape upon her, but at a later stage, she told him that the
accused did not do anything wrong to her.

8. The third witness is the victim herself. She has stated in
her evidence that she was in love with the accused and on the
day of occurrence, the accused had come to her house at
night. According to the victim girl, her father became very
angry, because of the visit of the accused in his house and out
of anger he lodged an ejahar before police. The victim girl has
proved her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.PC as Ext. 3.

9. On scrupulous perusal of prosecution evidences, | find
that the victim girl has resiled from her earlier statement
made before police. She has now failed to prove the
prosecution case against the accused. Her father has also
quoted his daughter, as saying to him that the accused did not

do anything to her.

10. The medical evidence also failed to Support the
allegation of rape. Medical evidence sometimes may not
support an allegation of rape. Therefore, | would ignore the
medical evidence in this case, but so far as the evidence of
the prosecutrix and the informant is concerned, | find that
they have miserably failed to prove the prosecution case
against the accused.

11. Under the circumstances, | find myself foreclosed
against all options, but to hold that the prosecution has failed
to prove the offence against the accused.

ORDER

12. That being the position, the accused Sri Ajad Rajput @
Sunil is found not guilty and accordingly he is acquitted from
this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
Ath day of April, 2019.
(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Dr. Rani Gogoi
2. PW2 - Sri Sawan Tanti
3. PW3 - Smti Ashuwani Tanti

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1- Medical report
2. Ext. 2- Ejahar
3. Ext. 3- Statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.PC

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
