IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON ::: ASSAM.

Special (POCSO) Case No.-74/2018
U/S-6 of the POCSO Act, r/w-506 IPC.

State
- Versus -

Rafique Bepari
: Accused person.

Present :
Md. A. Rahman, AJS
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Mr. M.J. Neog, Ld. Special Prosecutor.
For the accused person : Mr. A.H. Knandaker, Ld. Advocate.
Charge framed on : 18/09/2018.

Evidence recorded on : 12/11/2018, 14/03/2019,

15/03/2019, 30/03/2019,
25/04/2019, 26/04/2019,
20/06/2019, 11/07/2019.

Date of recording 313 Cr.P.C. statement : 15/07/2019.

Date of Argument : 08/08/2019.

Date of Judgment : 17/08/2019.

Contd...
UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case unfolded in the trial may be briefly
stated as follows :- “Miss. X” (9 years old), daughter of the complainant
(PW-2), a student of Class-IV of Kuthori Govt. L.P. School used to stay
with her maternal grand-parents at Village- Najan Nizbasti. Accused
Rafique Bepari is a closed neighbour of her paternal grand-parents. She
used to address the accused as 'Nana' (grandfather). A few days prior
to the lodging of the written Ejahar by the father of the victim, accused
Rafique Bepari on the relevant evening lured her to his house in order
to provide her a banana. As soon as she reached the house of the
accused, he took her inside his house. Thereafter, he laid her on his
bed and climbed on her body and committed bad work after removing
her garment (panty). She could not shout as he gagged her mouth. He
has also threatened her to kill in the event she discloses the
occurrence to others. After 2 / 3 days of the occurrence, the victim
disclosed to her maternal grandmother that she was not physically
well. Her grandmother also noticed that she was physically unwell. On
being asked, she disclosed the occurrence to her grandmother.
Accordingly, she informed the same to the father of the victim who in
turn lodged the Ejahar.

2. On receipt of the written FIR (Ext.-2) from complainant
Inamul Ali (actual name withheld), PW-8 S.I. Biraj Mohan Deka, the I/C
of Bagori Police Patrol Post made GDE No.-12, dated-01/07/2018. The
FIR was forwarded to Jakhalabandha Police Station for registration of
the case. Accordingly, Jakhalabandha P.S. Case No.-77/2018 was
registered u/s-4 of the POCSO Act. He immediately visited the place of
occurrence and recorded the statements of the witnesses including the
victim child. She was also sent to Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital for her

Contd...
3

medical examination. He also got recorded her statement u/s-164
Cr.P.C. through the Judicial Magistrate at Kaliabor. The accused was
arrested and forwarded to the court for judicial custody. After collecting
the medical examination report, he submitted Charge Sheet against
accused Rafique Bepari u/s-4 of the POCSO Act on 31/07/2018. After
submission of the Charge Sheet, the instant Special (POCSO) Case was
registered.

3. The Hon'ble Sessions Judge, Nagaon transferred the record
of this case to this court for disposal. After production of the accused
before this Special Court, learned Special Prosecutor as well as the
learned defence counsel were heard on the point of sentence. Upon
finding sufficient incriminating materials against the accused, charge
u/s-6 of the POCSO Act, r/w Section-506 IPC were framed, read over
and explained to the accused, to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried. As per mandate of the POCSO Act, the trial was
held in camera.

4. Prosecution in order to substantiate the charges against the
accused examined altogether 8(eight) witnesses including the doctor
and the investigating Police Officer. On completion of recording
evidence of the prosecution side, the accused was examined u/s-313
Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial. The further plea of the
accused is that the case was lodged because of land dispute. He has
declined to examine the defence witness.

5. | have heard Mr. M. J. Neog, learned Special Prosecutor as
well as Mr. A.H. Knandaker, learned counsel for the defence. | have also
very meticulously and thoroughly perused the evidence.

Contd...
6. Now the points for determination are as follows :-
(i) Whether the accused committed aggravated penetrative

sexual assault upon “Miss. X” and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s-6 of the POCSO Act ?

(ii) Whether the accused person, on the same date, time and
place of occurrence, committed criminal intimidation by threatening
PW-1 to finish her life if she would disclose the occurrence to others
and thereby committed offence punishable u/s-506 IPC ?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF

 

7. Both the offences were allegedly committed in the same
transaction. So, both the points are being discussed together for the
sake of convenience and brevity. Before entering upon analysis and
appreciation of evidence to ascertain whether the accused is guilt or
not, it is essential to take a glimpse of the relevant statements of the

witnesses.

8. Prosecution examined the victim “Miss. X” as PW-1. During
the camera trial, this court under provision of Section-267(2) Cr.P.C.
recorded her evidence in the form of “Question-Answer”. Her evidence
was recorded on 12/11/2018 and she stated her age to be 9Q(nine)
years. Hence, no oath was administered to her. Extreme care has been
taken at the time of recording her evidence to ensure that prosecution
could not put any leading question to her. In her evidence-in-chief,
PW-1 stated that although she cannot remember the exact date, but it
occurred in the current year on a certain day at about 2 p.m. Accused
Rafique Bepari called her to his house telling that he would
provide her a banana. Accordingly, she went to his house. The accused

Contd...
5

made her sleep on his bad, removed her inner garment, embraced her
and inserted his private part into her private part through which she
passes urine. After committing bad work with her, she threatened her
to leave his house. She disclosed the occurrence to her maternal
grandmother at first. As the accused threatened her, so she could not
disclose the occurrence to her maternal grand-parents. Police took her
to the hospital accompanied by her maternal grandmother. Doctor
examined her. She has also stated that she was produced before the
Magistrate. Ext.-1 is her statement before the Magistrate whereon Ext.-
1(1) and Ext.-1(2) are her signatures. The house of accused Rafique
Bepari is nearby the house of her maternal grand-parents.

During her cross-examination, she replied that at the
relevant time accused Rafique Bepari had taken her to his house, his
wife was not at home as she had gone to bring cattle from the paddy
field. Her grand-parents did not have visiting terms with Rafique
Bepari. On the very day of occurrence, she could not disclose the
occurrence to others. She denied all the relevant suggestions put by
the defence.

9. PW-2 is the complainant as well as the father of PW-1. His
evidence was recorded on 14/03/2019. He has testified that the
occurrence took place about 8 / 9 months back and on the relevant day
at about 12 noon getting a telephonic call from his mother-in-law
Sahiron Nessa (PW-3), he immediately arrived at her house. She
disclosed to him that accused Rafique Bepari about 14 / 15 days back
lured PW-1 to his house. Thereafter, he committed rape on her. He
observed his daughter (PW-1) was physically unwell. On being asked,
she disclosed to him that accused Rafique Bepari had done bad work
with her. He immediately went to Jakhalabandha Police Station and
lodged Ext.-2 Ejahar (FIR). He has affirmed that Ext.-2(1) is his
signature. At the relevant time of occurrence, PW-1 was studying in

Contd...
6

Class-IV and she was around 9 / 10 years old.

In his cross-examination, he has stated that as soon as he
could come to know about the occurrence, he disclosed it to the
villagers including Ibrahim. On the same date of lodging the Ejahar,
police asked him, his parents-in-law and his daughter about the
occurrence. He denied all the relevant suggestions.

10. PW-3 is the maternal grandmother of PW-1. She is rustic and
illiterate lady who even does not know how to put her signature. Her
evidence was recorded on 15/03/2019. She has testified that about
8(eight) months back on a certain day, her granddaughter (PW-1)
stated to her that she was unwell. She also observed that her
granddaughter was physically unwell. PW-1 disclosed to her that the
accused had called her to his house and gave a banana. Thereafter, he
made her to sleep on his bad and committed bad work with her after
removing her clothes. Thereafter, she immediately disclosed the
occurrence to her husband. Her son-in-law (PW-2) getting a telephonic
call from her immediately arrived. Then, she disclosed the occurrence
to him. On being asked by her husband and PW-2, PW-1 disclosed the
occurrence to them also. Her husband disclosed the occurrence to the
villagers including Jamaluddin, Rafique Ali, Abdul Motin and others. As
per instruction of the villagers, PW-2 lodged the FIR. She has further
testified that at the relevant time of occurrence, PW-1 was 9(nine)
years old and was studying in Class-lV.

In cross-examination, PW-3 replied that her house is nearby
the house of accused Rafique Bepari. She has denied the suggestion
that in her previous statement she did not state before the I/O that her
granddaughter was unwell and accused Rafique Bepari lured her to his
house on the plea of providing her a banana and thereafter committed
bad work with her after removing her cloth.

Contd...
11. PW-4 Rahim Ali is the maternal grandfather of PW-1. His
evidence was recorded on 30/03/2019. He is also an illiterate village
man and put thumb impression. According to him, the occurrence took
place last year on the relevant day at around 11 / 11:30 a.m, he
returned home and found his granddaughter (PW-1) was unwell. When
he asked his wife (PW-3) about ailing physical condition of his
granddaughter, she replied that PW-3 could not pass urine and she
developed fever. Then, he asked PW-1 as to what had happened to her.
She replied that accused Rafique Bepari lured her to his house telling
that he would provide a banana. Thereafter, he committed bad work
with her about 15 days back. After coming to know about the
occurrence from PW-3, he called Rafique Ali, Jamaluddin and Abdul
Motin to his house and disclosed to them about the occurrence. When
they asked about the occurrence, PW-1 disclosed to them that accused
Rafique Bepari called her to his house to provide her banana and
thereafter he committed bad work with her. At the relevant time, his
granddaughter was 9(nine) years old and was reading in L.P. School.

In cross-examination, he has stated that the house of
Rafique Bepari is nearby his house. The houses of other persons are at
a certain distance away from his house. He has denied the suggestion
that in his previous statement before police he did not state that PW-1
on being asked disclosed to him that the accused had called her to his
house telling that he would provide a banana and thereafter committed
bad work with her. He has denied all other suggestions.

12. PW-5 Rafique Ali, PW-6 Jamaluddin and PW-7 Abdul Motin are
the co-villagers of PW-4 as well as the accused person. The evidence of
the said three witnesses was recorded on 25/04/2019 and 26/04/2019.
They have stated that they know PW-2, his daughter PW-1 and
accused Rafique Bepari. They have deposed that on the relevant day

Contd...
8

they went to the house of Ibrahim Ali accepting his invitation for the
lunch. Then, PW-4 called them to his house stating that there was a
talk with them. When they reached his house, he stated that accused
Rafique Bepari had committed bad work with his granddaughter (PW-1)
about 15(fifteen) days back. PW-6 and PW-7 stated that when they
asked PW-1 about the occurrence, she stated that accused Rafique
Bepari called her to his house about 15 days back and committed bad
work with her. They denied all the relevant suggestions.

13. PW-8 S.I. Biraj Mohan Deka is the I/O of this case. He has
given the details regarding the investigation of the case. He deposed
that on 01/07/2018 at about 7:30 p.m. while working as I/C at Bagori
Police Out Post, he received one written Ejahar. On the basis of the
Ejahar, he made GDE No.12, dated-01/07/2018 and forwarded the
same to the O/C of Jakhalabandha Police Station for registering a case
and he himself took up investigation of the case. He immediately
proceeded to the place of occurrence accompanied by his staff. He
found the accused had been already apprehended and assaulted by
public. He rescued him from the clutch of the public and sent him to
the hospital for treatment. He drew Ext.-3 Sketch Map of the place of
occurrence. He examined the complainant, victim and other witnesses.
He brought the victim escorted by Woman Police Constable to Bagori
Out Post. On the next day, the victim escorted by WPC/645 Rambha
Nargery was sent to Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital for her medical
examination. The victim was also produced before the Magistrate at
Kaliabor for recording her statement. He collected one birth certificate
of the victim from her complainant father. He arrested and forwarded
the accused to jail custody during investigation. On the conclusion of
investigation, he collected the medical examination report of the victim
and submitted Ext.-4 Charge Sheet against accused Rafique Bepari u/s-
4 of the POCSO Act on 31/07/2016. He has confirmed that Ext.-2 is the
FIR and Ext.-2(1) is his signature. He also confirmed that Ext.-3(1) is his

Contd...
signature.

In cross-examination, he has denied the suggestion that he
mechanically conducted investigation without following the provisions
of Cr.P.C.

14. PW-9 Dr. Bhaswati Sharma has deposed that on 02/07/2018
while she was posted as M&HO.1 at Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital at about
2 p.m, she examined PW-1, in reference to Jakhalabandha P.S. GDE
No.-77/2018, u/s-4 of the POCSO Act, 2012, on being escorted by
WPC/645 Rambha Nargary. Examination of the victim was done vide
OPD Registration No.-13002, dated-02/07/2018.

On examination, PW-9 found the following :-

Identification Marks -
(a) Mole on left side of left eyebrow.
(b) Mole on left cheek.

Height - 146 Cms.

Weight - 24 kgs.

Teeth - 11/9.

Breast - Developed.

Auxiliary Hair - Absent.

Pubic Hair - Absent.

Hymen - No recent tear.

Vaginal Injury - Vaginal opening red and inflamed.
Marks of violence - Vaginal opening red and inflamed.
Clothings - Frock.

LMP - Puberty not attained.

Smear examination vide Regd. No.13002, reported by

Contd...
10

Pathologist Dr. J. Hussain shows - No Spermatozoa.

She has opined that she found a sign of violence mark on the
vagina of the victim child because vaginal opening was found reddish
and inflamed. She has confirmed that Ext.-5 is the medical examination
report and Ext.-5(1) is her signature. On the query of the court as to
what is meant by “Hymen - no recent tear”, she categorically stated
that there was tear of hymen; but it was not within 4(four) houses from

the time of examination.

In cross-examination, the defence has got it clear that
redness on the opening of vagina was due to violence. She denied the
suggestion that she had not followed the procedure at the time of
examining the patient.

15. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE :-

PW-1 is the victim as well as the eye-witness to the
occurrence. She is the star witness of the prosecution. The most crucial
point for determination is what was the actual age of PW-1 at the
relevant time of occurrence. PW-2(father of PW-1) lodged Ext.-2 FIR on
01/07/2018 wherein he mentioned that the occurrence took place
about a few days back. Ext.-1 proves that statement of PW-1 was
recorded by Smti. P. Chakraborty, learned SDJM, Nagaon on
02/07/2018. PW-1 has stated in her Ext.-1 statement that the
occurrence took place about three days back. Therefore, it can be
inferred that the occurrence had taken place around 28" / 29" June,
2018. PW-1 while deposing before this court on 12" November stated
that she was 9(nine) years old and she was reading in Class-IV at
Kuthori L.P. School. PW-2 has deposed that his victim daughter (PW-1)
was a student of Class-IlV and she was around 9 / 10 years at the
relevant time of occurrence. PW-3 and PW-4 being the maternal grand-
parents of the victim have also deposed that she was 9(nine) years old

Contd...
11

and was reading in Class-IV in L.PB school. The defence side did not
challenge the oral testimony of the said witnesses regarding the age of
PW-1 at the relevant time of occurrence. The PW-2 being the father has
a fair idea about the age of his daughter (PW-1). Similarly her grand-
parents also have the knowledge about her age. From the evidence of
PW-9 and Ext.-5, it is palpably seen that the height and weight of PW-1
was 146 cms and 24 kgs respectively on 11/07/2019 being the date of
her examination. Her teeth were 11 / 9. Moreover, PW-1 also did not
attain puberty. In rural area, the children are admitted in school for the
first time at the age of around 5 years. Therefore, PW-1 was around
Q(nine) years while reading in Class-IV at the relevant time of
occurrence. From the above oral and medical evidence, it can be safely
held that PW-1 was below 12 years at the relevant time of occurrence.
Therefore, non-production of age-proof certificate or ossification test of
PW-1 is not fatal. Even by imagination, it cannot be held that PW-1
attained the age of 12 years at the relevant time of occurrence. It is
clear from the evidence of PW-1 that the accused at the relevant time
of occurrence lured her to his house with a plea of providing her a
banana. As soon as she arrived at his house, the accused made her
sleep on the bed. Then, he removed her inner garments and inserted
his private part (penis) into her vagina. She has categorically stated
that at the relevant time, the wife of accused Rafique Bepari was not at
home and she had gone to bring cattle from the paddy field. There is
absolutely nothing in her cross-examination to suggest that she falsely
implicated the accused in the heinous crime. Her testimony before this
court is corroborated by her statement recorded u/s-164 Cr.PC.
(Ext.-1). PW-1 has clearly stated that immediately after committing bad
work with her, the accused threatened her to leave his house. In her
Ext.-1 statement, she has clearly stated that the accused threatened
her if she discloses the occurrence to others. At the time of deposing
before this court, PW-1 could not say the exact date of occurrence. In
Ext.-1, she stated that the occurrence took place in the evening; but in
her deposition before the court she stated that the occurrence took

Contd...
12

place at around 2 p.m. The variation of the statement made vide Ext.-1
and the statement made before the court with regard to time of
occurrence is not material to disbelieve her testimony to raise any
doubt on the veracity of her credence. She being child has undergone
horrific experience after the occurrence. Certainly, she does not want
to recall each and every moment of the occurrence which makes her
sadden and insecured. Certainly because of threat from the accused
and her suffering from severe physical and mental trauma, shy and
being disgraced, she could not disclose it to her grand-parents until
PW-3 found her physically unwell. Medical evidence of PW-9 and Ext.-5
corroborates the testimony of PW-1 that on account of committing
sexual intercourse upon her by the accused, she sustained injury on
her vagina. PW-9 found red and inflamed opening of the vagina of PW-1
which was palpably due to violence. Moreover, there was also tear of
hymen although it was not recent because PW-1 was examined after
3 / 4 days of the occurrence. PW-1 is found to be trustworthy and
wholly reliable witness. Thus, prosecution by adducing oral evidence of
PW-1 and medical evidence has proved that the accused committed
offence of penetrative sexual assault as defined u/s-3 of the POCSO
Act. It is needless to mention that as per Section-3(a) of the Act,
penetration of penis to any extent into the vagina, mouth, urethra or
anus of a child amounts to commission of penetrative sexual assault. It
has been already ascertained and proved that PW-1 was below 12
years at the relevant time of the occurrence. Therefore, she is a child
within the definition u/s-2(d) of the Act. Again as per Section-5(/) of the
POCSO Act, penetrative sexual assault on a child below 12 years is
aggravated penetrative sexual assault.

16. In the light of the above discussion of evidence, it is held
that the prosecution has been able to prove that the accused
committed offence u/s-5 of the POCSO Act. Moreover, the court is also
under the duty to draw statutory presumption u/s-29 of the Act that the

Contd...
13

accused has committed penetrative sexual assault unless the contrary
is proved. Here in this case, the defence side has not adduced
evidence to rebut the said statutory presumption. The accused also did
not offer to adduce evidence to show that the case against him is false.
The plea of the accused raised in his statement u/s-313 Cr.P.C. that he
has lost sexual power due to suffering from sugar (diabetes) for last 15
years appears to be a false plea. PW-2, PW-3 and PW-4 also corroborate
PW-1 that she reported the occurrence to them. Even if the evidence of
PW-5, PW-6 and PW-7 is not taken into consideration, then also the
case stands proved against the accused. The accused is convicted u/s-
6 of the POCSO Act for committing the offence u/s-5 of the Act. He is
also convicted u/s-506 IPC.

17. Victim's compensation :-

It has been already held that PW-1 victim child has
undergone severe physical and mental trauma as direct consequence
of the crime. Her right to live with dignity and honour as provided
under Article-21 of the Constitution of India has been infringed. Her
mental agony will perpetuate till the end of her life. So, considering all
the above aspects, | find that she deserves to get compensation.
Accordingly, in exercise of the discretion u/s-357(A) Cr.P.C, r/w Section-
33(8) of the POCSO Act and Rule-12 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences rules 2012, this court recommends that fair, adequate
and reasonable compensation be paid to the said victim child
preferably a period of four months from this date as per Notification of
the Government of Assam published vide No.-PLA.524/2015/Pt/190
[ECF-38361] dated- 1% February, 2019, Dispur. The Secretary, DLSA,
Nagaon, after due inquiry, shall pay the compensation amount in the
account of the victim of any Nationalized Bank. Further at least 70% of
compensation shall remain fixed till she attains 18 years.

Contd...
14

18. A copy of this Judgment be sent each to the Secretary,
District Legal Services Authority, Nagaon and the District Magistrate,
Nagaon for information.

19. A certified copy of this Judgment be furnished forthwith free
of cost to the accused immediately.

20. Remand the accused to jail custody till next date for hearing

on sentence.

21. The order on sentence shall be an integral part of this
Judgment.
22. The Special Case is disposed of accordingly.

Judgment is pronounced '§ and
delivered in the open Court under the seal
of this Court and on my signature on this
17* day of August, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me.
Special Judge, Nagaon.
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
15

APPENDIX :-

Oral evidence :-

PW-1
PW-2
PW-3
PW-4
PW-5
PW-6
PW-7
PW-8

Miss. X. (Actual name withheld)

Md. Inamul Ali. (Actual name withheld)
Musstt. Sahiran Nessa.

Md. Rahim Ali.

Md. Rafique Ali.

Md. Abdul Motin.

S.l. Biraj Mohan Deka.

Dr. Bhaswati Sarma.

Documentary evidence :-

Ext.-1

Ext.-2
Ext.-3
Ext.-4
Ext.-5

Statement of the victim recorded by Magistrate u/s-164
GARG.

Ejahar.

Sketch Map.

Charge Sheet.

Medical Report.

Defence side did not adduce any evidence.

Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
16

ORDER ON SENTENCE
Dated :-19/08/2019.

Accused Rafique Bepari who has already been convicted u/s-
6 of the POCSO Act and Section-506 IPC is produced before me from jail
custody for the purpose of hearing on sentence. He is heard on the
quantum of sentence as per Section-235(2) CrP.C. Mr. M.J. Neog, Ld.
Special Prosecutor submits that this is a classical case to show that
even a sufficiently aged person around 70 years may also commit the
heinous crime of committing sexual intercourse upon a minor innocent
child to satisfy his lust. Further submission of the learned Special
Prosecutor is that the accused in stead of treating the victim child like
his granddaughter committed penetrative sexual assault upon her after
he had lured her to his house on a plea of providing a banana.
Therefore, learned Special Prosecutor submits that the accused should
be given the maximum punishment prescribed u/s-6 of the POCSO Act.
The accused has submitted that he is an old man of around 70 years
and he has two wives, married sons and grand-children. Therefore, he
has prayed for mercy.

Considering the entire facts and circumstances of the case
and the age of the accused, | sentence him for undergo 12(twelve)
years R.I. and fine of Rs.2000/- (Rupees two thousand), in
default to undergo further R.I. for 2(two) months. He is also
sentenced to undergo R.I. for 3(three) months u/s-506 IPC.
Both the substantive sentences shall run concurrently. The
period which the accused has already undergone in jail
custody in connection with this case shall be set off from the
quantum of substantive sentence.

Send back the accused to jail with necessary jail warrant for
serving the sentence in jail.

Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
