IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, MORIGAON

POCSO Case No. 03/2018
U/s 4 of the POCSO Act

Present : Mr. P. Das
Special Judge,
Morigaon, Assam.

State of Assam

-VS-

Md. Mofidul Islam _—ssi.... Accused
Date of Charge : 09.10.2018.
Date of Argument : 14.11.2019.
Date of Judgment : 25.11.2019.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State :- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. Public Prosecutor

Advocate for the Accused :- Mr. N. U. Ahmed, Ld. Advocate.
Ms. S. Shah, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 13.12.2017, the prosecutrix cum
informant lodged a case at the Moirabari Police Station alleging inter-alia that on
11.12.2017, at about 11 PM, the accused person entered into her house when her
mother had gone out to answer nature's call and tried to commit sexual assault upon
her. On the basis of the ejahar, Moirabari PS Case No. 464/2017, was registered u/s
376(2)(i) IPC r/w Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
2012.

2. After completion of investigation, charge sheet was submitted against the
accused person namely, Md. Mofidul Islam u/s 376(2)(i) IPC r/w Section 4 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, showing him as absconder.
Subsequently, vide order dated 09.10.2018, charge was framed against the accused u/s
4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The charge upon being

denied by the accused led to commencement of the trial. At the trial, prosecution side
examined three witnesses including the prosecutrix cum informant and the Medical

Officer. They were cross-examined by the defence.

3. Considering the nature of the evidence adduced by these three witnesses, the
prosecution evidence was closed, and thereafter, the accused was examined u/s 313

Cr.PC. Defence did not adduce any evidence.

4. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

Whether the accused Md. Mofidul Islam is guilty of committing an offence
punishable u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. Heard learned public prosecutor for the State and learned defence counsel for

 

the accused person. Perused all the relevant materials from the record.

6. PW-1 is the prosecutrix and she has stated in her deposition that she was the
informant of the case and she knew the accused person. She further stated that at the
time of the incident she was aged 18 2 years, that she was having a love affair with
the accused, which was not accepted by her parents and that one day she eloped with
the accused and that subsequently her parents brought her back to her parental house.
Thereupon, she lodged the instant case, but subsequently she got married to the
accused. During her deposition, she proved as Exhibit 1, the ejahar lodged by her and
as Exhibit 1 (1) her signature thereon. She also proved as Exhibit 2, her statement
before the learned Magistrate during investigation and as Exhibit 2 (1), (2) her
Signatures thereon. In her cross-examination by the learned defence, PW-1 stated that
her father had not accepted their relationship and that upon his instruction she had
lodged the instant case and that she had also given her statement before the learned

Magistrate upon the instruction of her father.

es PW-2 is Samsul Hoque. He stated in his deposition that he knew the prosecutrix
and also the accused and that the incident had taken place about one and half years
prior to his giving deposition. He further stated that the prosecutrix and the accused
were having a love affair but it was not accepted by her family and that subsequently
pursuant to the said love affair, the prosecutrix had eloped with the accused. He further

stated that thereafter, the prosecutrix and the accused got married. This witness
further stated in his evidence that at the time of the incident the prosecutrix was aged
about 18 2 years. In cross-examination by the learned defence, PW-2 stated that the
instant case was lodged as the father of the prosecutrix was not accepting the

relationship of the prosecutrix with the accused.

8. PW-3 is Dr (Ms) N Ahmed and she stated in her deposition that on 13.12.2017,
while she was working as Senior M & HO at the Morigaon Civil Hospital, she examined
the prosecutrix in connection with this case. She further stated in her deposition that
upon examination she did not find any external injury on the prosecutrix and that her
vaginal smear examination did not show the presence of any spermatozoa. She further
stated that though x-ray examination was suggested, it was not done. The medical
officer further stated in her deposition that on the basis of her examination, she opined
that — there was no evidence of recent sexual intercourse at that the time of the
examination; that there were no sign of injuries on her private parts at the time of the
examination; that clinically the age of the prosecutrix was 17 — 18 years. As part of her
deposition, PW-3 he proved the medical report as Exhibit 3 and her signature thereon
as Exhibit 3 (1). In cross-examination by the learned defence, the medical officer stated

that the clinical age indicated can have a variation of two years on either side.

9. Upon perusing and analysing the aforesaid evidence of the prosecution side on
record, I find that the prosecutrix herself stated in her evidence that she was a major at
the time the incident aged 18 2 years. The other witness — PW-2 has also stated the
same in his evidence. In this regard, the Doctor who had examined the prosecutrix
after the incident during the investigation has stated her clinical age at the time of
examination to be 17 — 18 years, with the rider that such clinical determination, can
have a variation of two years on the side. Thus, not only the prosecutrix has indicated
that she was a major at the time of the incident, the evidence of the other witness and
the medical officer also indicates the possibility of her being a major as well, at the time

of the incident.

10. The medical officer in her evidence has stated that after examination of the
prosecutrix, she did not find any evidence of recent sexual intercourse nor any sign of
injuries on her private parts. In this context, the evidence of PW-2 also does not include

any element of sexual assault or sexual offence by the accused upon the prosecutrix.
11. More importantly, the prosecutrix herself stated in her evidence that she had
eloped with the accused person pursuant to her love affair with him and subsequently
got married to the accused. Apart from indicating her age to be above 18 years at the
time of the incident, the prosecutrix in her evidence has also not made any imputation
regarding commission of any sexual assault or sexual offence upon her by the accused.
The prosecutrix has also indicated about her making statement before the magistrate
as instructed by her father. This also assumes significance in the context of her
evidence that her relationship with the accused was not accepted by her parents at the

time.

12. On the basis of the prosecution evidence on record, I come to the considered
view and finding that the said evidence is grossly inadequate to come to any conclusion
of guilt of the accused person with regard to the penal offence with which he has been

charged with and/or any other minor offence.

13. Consequently, I come to the inevitable conclusion that the prosecution case fails

due to lack of adequate evidence and the accused person is entitled to be acquitted.

ORDER
14. On the basis of the other evidence and relevant materials on record of the case,
the accused Md. Mofidul Islam stands acquitted. The accused, if in detention, shall be

set at liberty forthwith, if, not wanted in any other case.

15. His bail bonds and sureties stands extended for six months in terms of the
provisions of Section 437-A Cr.PC.

16. A copy of this judgement and order shall be sent to the learned District
Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with Section 365 of the Cr.PC.

17. Given under my hand and seal on this the 25" day of November, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by me (P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
(P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW-1 : Prosecutrix.
PW-2 : Samsul Hoque.
PW-3 : Dr. N. Ahmed, Medical Officer.

Defence Witness:

Nil.

Prosecution Exhibits:

1. Ext. 1 : Ejahar.
2. Ext. 2 : 164 Cr.PC statement of the prosecutrix.
3. Ext. 3 : Medical Report.

Defence Exhibits:

Nil.

Dictated and corrected by me (P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
(P. Das)
Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
POCSO Case No. 22/2018
25.11.2019:

Accused Md. Mofidul Islam is present along with learned

defence counsel.

The judgment, in separate sheet is ready and pronounced
in the open court. On the basis of the relevant materials and
evidence on record, the accused Md. Mofidul Islam stands
acquitted. He shall be set at liberty forthwith, if, not wanted in
any other case.

His bail bonds and sureties stands extended for six months
in compliance with Section 437-A Cr.P.C.

A copy of this judgement and order shall be sent to the
learned District Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with section
365 Cr.P.C.

The instant case is disposed of on the aforesaid terms.

Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam
