1 of 6

IN _ THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE :: NALBARI

Present : Mrs. S. Begum.
Sessions Judge,
Nalbari.

Special (P) Case No: 14/18
u/s- 366 IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam

eceeens Complainant
-Vs-
Binay Das
beeeees Accused person
Appearance :-
For the prosecution : Mr. D. Barman, PP
For the defence : Phanidhar Deka, Advocate
Date of argument : 18/01/2019
Date of Judgment : 18/01/2019
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case which is reflected in the ejahar lodged

by one Purnima Baishya on 05/04/18 is that on that very day her
daughter, who is 17 years old, became untraced and they could not
find her out. Thereafter while they called one of her friend, they
could know that accused Binay Das forcibly took her away by a
motorcycle near from their house. On the basis of the ejahar Belsor
PS Case No. 59/18 u/s-366 IPC has been registered.

2. The police force set into motion on receipt of the ejahar and
on completion of the investigation police submitted charge-sheet u/s-
366 IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused Binay

Das.
2 of 6

3. While the accused entered into his appearance before
this court, getting prima-facie material against the accused u/s-366
and u/s- 4 of the POCSO Act charge was framed accordingly and read
over to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

4. The prosecution to bring home the charge against the
accused examined as many as 3 witnesses including the victim and

the informant. The case of the accused is of denial.

5. POINT FOR DETERMINATION.

i) Whether the accused on 05/04/18 at 12:00 O'clock at noon at
Jowardi (Besimari) village under Belsor P.S. kidnapped Miss
Dhritismita Baishya (hereinafter referred as “Miss X”) with
intend that she may be compelled to marry against her will or
in order that she may be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s-
366 IPC?

ii) Whether the accused on the aforesaid date, time and place
committed penetrative sexual assault upon “Miss X” and
thereby committed an offence punishable u/s- 4 of the POCSO
Act.

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF
6. Now let me scrutinize and appreciated the evidence on record
to arrive at a just decision. First of all let me discuss the evidence of
PW-1, Purnima Baishya, who is the informant cum mother of the
victim. She during her evidence disclosed that on 05/04/18 she went
to Nalbari and while she return back to her house she could know
that her daughter became untraced from their house. On search, she
could know that her daughter went with accused Binay. On the next
day of the incident she lodged the ejahar at Belsor. She exhibited
Ext-1 as the ejahar. 3/4 days subsequent to the incident police
3 of 6

recovered the victim from the house of the accused. It is disclosed
that police brought the victim before the doctor for medical
examination as well as the victim was also brought before the
magistrate. The zimma of the victim was given to her. It is revealed
by this witness that thereafter on the month of November, 2018 the
victim again eloped with the accused and the marriage between the
victim and accused has been solemnized socially and she does not
want to proceed with the case. She also disclosed that at present the
victim and accused is living as husband and wife and the age of the
victim was 18 years at the time of occurrence. During cross
examination she revealed that the victim had love affairs with the

accused and hence she herself eloped with the accused.

7. PW-2, who is the victim of this case disclosed during her
evidence that she had love affairs with the accused and as her
parents were not willing to get her marry with the accused, so she
herself eloped with the accused. She also disclosed that police
recovered her from the house of the accused and her statement u/s-
164 CrPC got recorded by the magistrate. She exhibited Ext-2 as her
statement recorded u/s- 164 CrPC. It is also disclosed that
subsequent to few months of the incident she again eloped with the
accused. Thereafter her marriage was socially solemnized with the
accused and at present she is living with the accused as husband and
wife. She disclosed that her age was above 18 years at the time of

the incident.

8. PW-3 Dwijen Baishya, who is the father of the victim,
disclosed during his evidence that about 6 months ago his daughter
eloped with the accused and as they could not trace out his daughter
so his wife lodged the ejahar. Thereafter police recovered the victim
after 3/ 4 days of the incident and zimma of the victim was given to
his wife. He also disclosed that subsequent to few months of the
incident, the victim again eloped with the accused and the marriage

between the victim and the accused was solemnized socially as per
4 of 6

Hindu rites and rituals. At present the victim and the accused are
living happily as husband and wife. He revealed that at the time of

occurrence age of the victim was 18 years.

9. It is argued that the informant instituted a false and
fabricated case against the accused. It is submitted that in the ejahar
allegation was brought against the accused that he kidnapped the
victim.. But from the statement of the victim it is clear that the victim
herself eloped with the accused and got married with him. It is
submitted that without any basis the accused person has been

implicated and that the accused deserves to be acquitted.

10. On the basis of the evidence on record let me discuss whether
the prosecution has been able to bring home the charge against the
accused. In the instant case, the informant, victim and father of the
victim nowhere brought any allegation against the accused though in
the ejahar it was mentioned that the accused kidnapped the victim.
The victim in her statement recorded u/s- 164 CrPC as well as in her
evidence nowhere stated that she was kidnapped by the accused.
Rather she revealed that she herself eloped with the accused as she
had love affairs with the accused. PW-1 the informant cum mother of
the victim, PW-2 the victim and PW-3 father of the victim disclosed
during their evidence that the age of the victim was 18 years at the
time of alleged occurrence. It is also disclosed by the victim and her
parents that at present the victim and the accused are living happily
as husband and wife. It transpires from the evidence on record that
the victim herself eloped with the accused as she had love affairs
with the accused and at present the victim and accused are living

happily as husband and wife.

11. Marshalling the evidence on record, it appears that the
prosecution has miserably failed to establish a case u/s- 366 IPC and
section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused beyond reasonable
doubt. On benefit of doubt, the accused is acquitted.
5 of 6

12. | The accused Binay Das will go on a fresh bail of Rs. 10,000/-
with surety of like amount u/s- 437-A IPC assuring that he will appear
before the higher court as and when such court issue notice in
respect of any appeal or petition filed against the judgment and order

of this court.

13. Judgment is pronounced at the open court in presence

of the accused.

14. Judgment written in separate sheet be kept with

record.

Given under my hand and the seal of this court on this the
18 day of December, 2018

Sessions Judge
Nalbari

Dictated and corrected by me

Sessions Judge
Nalbari

APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witness.

PW-1 Purnima Baishya (informant)
6 of 6

PW-2 “Miss X” (victim)
PW-3 Dwijen Baishya (father of the victim)

Defence witness.

Nil.

Prosecution Exhibit.

Ext-1 Ejahar.

Ext-2 164 CrPC Statement of the victim.

Defence _ Exhibit.

Nil.

Sessions Judge,
Nalbari.
