SPL. POCSO No. 04/17.

State. 2211335333335. Complainant.
-Vs-

Sri AkashKarmakar.

S/O Sri SemkaKarmakar.

KatlacheraT.E..P.S. Borkhola. :::::: Accused.

U/S 366 IPC & U/s 4 of POCSO Act.

ORDER
Dated 13-06-17.

Accused is present. Today one P.W. i.e. the victim is
also present. She is examined, cross-examined and discharged.
Considering the nature of evidence the learned P.P. has submitted
for closure of the prosecution evidence on the ground that
examination of any further witness would not in any way improve
the prosecution case. Further the victim could not be medically
examined for want of her consent. Sufficient force is found in the
submission. Hence, evidence is closed. I would like to dispose of
the case under provision of Sec 232 Cr.P.C..

Accused is examined. Heard argument of both sides.

In the instance case charge was framed U/S 366 IPC and U/s
4 of POCSO Act on the accusation that on 05-09-16 at about 1.00
p.m. the accused kidnapped the minor daughter of the complainant
and committed penetrative sexual assault on her. The charges when
read out and explained the accused pleaded not guilty.

P.W.1 is the complainant, the father of the victim. According
to him, at about 7-8 months back when he returned home from
work did not find the victim in the house. He also deposed that
finding her missing in the house he lodged the ejahar,Ext-1 against
the accused. He stated that at the relevant time the victim was aged
about 19 years. His further evidence is that subsequently the
marriage of the victim was settled with the accused.

P.W.2 SurojTeli deposed that both the victim and accused had love
affairs since prior to the alleged incident. According to his evidence
about seven months back the victim fled away with the accused and
for that her father finding her missing lodged the FIR against the
accused and age of the victim was around 20 years.

P.W.3 Pinki Orang, the victim,who has deposed that she had
love affairs since last three years with the accused and her father
when abused her she went to the house of the accused and induced
him to marry her. She has also deposed that being so induced
accused married her in a Shib temple. She has also deposed that
later on her father gave her marriage with the accused socially and
both of them are residing as husband and wife. Further according to
her at the material time she was aged about twenty years.

From the above, it reveals that the victim at her
own will went with the accused and at the material time she was
of consenting age and subsequently both of them got socially
married at the instance of the father of the victim. Therefore, it
is found that no offence is made out against the accused. The
prosecution charges are held to be not proved at all for want of
implicating evidence. Accused is thus held to be not guilty of
the offence as charged or whatsoever and he is therefore acquitted
and set at liberty forthwith.

Bail bond stands discharged.

This order of acquittal is pronounced and delivered in
the open Court under seal & signature of this Court on this 13" day
of June, 2017.

Special Judge.
Cachar, Silchar.
