CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 81/15

Informant: — Sri Silash Takri,
S/o- Late Toriful Takri,
R/o- No. 10 Line of Lengrai Tea Estate,
PS- Tengakhat,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Asanand Bania,
S/o- Sri Dilip Bania,
R/o- Lengrai Basti,
PS- Tengakhat,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. UK Saha, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 81/15
G.R. Case No. 1771/13

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Asanand Bania

Charges: Under Section 4 POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 27-01-16, 26-02-16, 29-03-16, 04-05-16 & 31-05-16.
Date of argument : 18-07-18.
Date of Judgment —_: 01-08-18.

1)

2)

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in a narrow compass is that on 11-06-13, at about
7/7:30 pm, Sri Ashananda Bania (hereinafter the accused) committed rape on
the nine year old victim 'X'. He tempted the victim and induced her to go with
him to Lengrai Tea Estate and forcefully committed rape on the nine years old
victim and dissuaded her from disclosing about the incident. When the
victim's father Sri Silash Takri learned about the incident, he lodged an ejahar
with the police which was registered as Tengakhat PS Case No. 57/13 under
Section 376(f) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC in short).

The investigating officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation. He
went to the place of occurrence and prepared the Sketch-Map. He recorded
the statements of the witnesses and forwarded the victim to the Magistrate
for recording her statement under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure. The victim was also forwarded for medical examination. On

finding prima facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused
under Section 376(f) IPC.

3) On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and as this case is
triable by the Sessions Judge, the case was committed to this Court vide
order dtd. 27-01-14 passed by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Dibrugarh in GR Case No. 1771/13. Subsequently, the case was transferred to
the Court of the Assistant Sessions Judge. Trial commenced. Charge under
Section 376(f) was framed, read over and explained to the accused. The
accused abjured his guilt and claimed innocence. The learned Assistant
Sessions Judge recorded the statement of Sri Silash Takri and uncovered that
this case also falls under the provision of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act in short). The learned Assistant
Sessions Judge, thereafter, forwarded the case to this Court, as the POCSO
Act is beyond his jurisdiction. After hearing both the sides, a formal charge
under Section 4 POCSO Act was framed, read over and explained to the
accused. The accused abjured his guilty and claimed innocence.

4) To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of nine
witnesses including the medical officer (MO in short) and the IO and the
defence cross-examined the witnesses to refute the charges.

5) Ihave heard the arguments forwarded by both the sides.

Point for determination:
i. Whether on 11-06-13, at about 7:30 pm, the accused
committed penetrative sexual assault on the nine years old
victim 'X"?
Decision thereon and the reasons for the decision:
6) To decide the case in its proper perspective, it is necessary to cull out the

evidence.
7) The victim 'X' testified as PW-1 that the accused is her brother-in-law who
8)
9)

married her elder sister Smti. Smriti Takri. The incident took place in the year
2013. At about 6:00 pm, she was in the house, while her mother was cooking
and her father was having his bath. At that time, the accused called her and
asked her to bring the torch light to watch frogs. Then they reached a drain
named as Phukan Bari Nulla. The accused then stopped her and removed her
panty and committed rape on her. He gagged her and she was unable to
scream. The accused then demanded that she should not divulge about the
incident. She experienced pain in her private part. She returned weeping and
narrated the incident to her parents. In the evening, she along with her
father went to the police station where her father lodged the FIR. The police
also recorded her statement. On the next day, the police took her to Assam
Medical College & Hospital at Dibrugarh. She was also forwarded to the
Magistrate who recorded her statement. Ext. 1 is her statement and Ext. 1(1)
is her signature.

Her cross-examination will be discussed at the appropriate stage.

The testimony of the victim is consistent to her statement under Section 164
CrPC. Her statement under Sections 164 and 161 CrPC_ remained
uncontradicted. She was confronted by the defence and she was cross-

examined in extenso, but her evidence remained uncontradicted.

10) This evidence of PW-1 is supported and corroborated by the evidence of

PW-2 Sri Silash Takri. He testified that the accused is his son-in-law and the
victim is his daughter. The incident took place in the month of June, 2013. On
the day of the incident, his wife was working in the kitchen. After half an
hour, his daughter returned crying and she narrated the incident to him. Her
mother was also present at that time. His daughter stated that the accused
person took her near the Phukan Bari Bagan in the pretext of catching frogs
and he committed rape on her near the drain by gagging her mouth with his
hands. They checked her private part and they noticed that her vagina was
swollen and she could not urinate properly for almost one week. At that time,
the victim was wearing a skirt and frock. They removed her garments and
changed her clothes and took her to the Thana. He then lodged an ejahar
which was written according to his narrative. Ext. 2 is the ejahar and Ext.
2(1) is his signature. On the next day, she was taken to Assam Medical
College & Hospital at Dibrugarh accompanied by her mother. At the time of

the incident, the accused used to reside in the garden quarter in the line
which is near his house. After the incident, the accused was thrown out of
the quarter by the Garden Manager on the compliant of the public.
Thereafter, the accused started to reside in his own line which is some
distance away.

11) This witness was also cross-examined in extenso. His evidence also remained
uncontradicted and uncontroverted.

12) It is pertinent to mention at this stage that both PW-1 and PW-2 testified that
the incident occurred in the year 2013. PW-1’s statement Ext. 1 clearly
depicts that her statement under Section 161 CrPC was recorded on
12-06-13. It is clear from the Ext. 1 that the incident occurred on 11-06-13.
The FIR reveals that the incident occurred on 11-06-13. The MO examined
the victim on 12-06-13 at about 1:15 pm. Ext. 3 is the Medico-legal Report
and Ext. 3(3) is the signature of the MO. The victim’s evidence is also
supported and corroborated by the evidence of her mother.

13) Smti. Jhorna Takri testified as PW-3 that the accused is her elder daughter's
husband. The victim is her daughter. The incident took place in the month of
June, 2013. On the day of the incident, at about 6:00 pm, the accused asked
her daughter to bring a torch light so that they could go and catch frogs and
then the accused took her daughter with him to catch frogs. Thereafter, her
husband came to the house. After one hour, 'X' returned weeping and she
informed them that the accused gagged her and committed rape on her in
the nearby garden. She noticed dirt over the victim’s body. Then she removed
the victim's undergarment and noticed that undergarment was wet and there
was blood stains in her vagina. Thereafter, she along with her husband and
brother Ajush and her daughter went to the police station and lodged an
ejahar. After the incident, her daughter was unable to pass urine upto three
days, because she was experiencing pain in her vagina. At the time of the
incident, her daughter was nine years of age. On the next day, the police
brought her daughter to the hospital for medical examination. The police also
recorded her statement. Her evidence further proceeds that the accused
managed to flee when the police tried to apprehend him.

14) This evidence of PW-1, 2 and 3 remained uncontradicted and uncontroverted.
PW-3 was also cross-examined in extenso, but her statement under Section
161 CrPC remained uncontradicted and uncontroverted. All the three

witnesses were cross-examined in extenso, but it can be perceived and
deciphered that with intelligent equivocation, the learned defence counsel
tried to divert the attention towards the location of the place of occurrence.
However, it is very clear that the statement under Section 161 CrPC of PWs-1,
2 and 3 remained uncontradicted. The IO was not cross-examined regarding
any contradiction under Section 161 CrPC.

15)I would like to draw the attention towards the cross-examination of PWs-1, 2
and 3. The victim has testified in her cross-examination as PW-1 that when
the accused called her, her parents allowed her to go with him. She did not
meet any person while she proceeded along with the accused. There is a
Church near the drain and Phukan Bari Tea Estate and the Church is
managed by Sri Chatri Paul. They went up to the Church. She denied the
suggestion that she requested the accused to go out in search of frogs. She
denied the suggestion that she fell into the drain. She also denied that the
accused picked her up from the drain and took her home and went to bring
medicine for her injuries. She admitted that she was wearing a frock and
panty at the time of the incident. She stated that the police did not seize her
garments which she was wearing. She admitted in her cross-examination that
the accused pulled down her panty with both his hands and rolled her on the
ground while she struggled to set herself free. She again admitted in her
cross-examination that the accused did not accompany her back home and
she narrated the incident to her mother and she sustained pain on her private
part while urinating. She also informed her father. It is clear that her evidence
was affirmed by her cross-examination rather than contradicted.

16) Similarly, the cross-examination of PW-2 was also not of much help. Further,
he admitted in his cross-examination that he did not have a good relationship
with the accused after he married his elder daughter, but thereafter, the
relationship improved. His elder daughter eloped with the accused. He further
testified in his cross-examination that on the alleged evening, at about 7:30
pm, his younger daughter went out with the accused, as the accused asked
for a torch. After half an hour, his younger daughter returned home. When
his daughter reached home, she was still wearing her clothes, but the clothes
were covered with dirt.

17) Thus his cross-examination affirms and substantiates the evidence of his wife
that when their daughter returned home on the relevant evening, she was

covered with dirt. His cross-examination also affirms that the accused fled
after the incident, because he testified in his cross-examination that he along
with his wife went to the accused person’s house, but he could not find the
accused.

18) Thus, the subsequent conduct of the accused is also relevant as expounded
by Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (the Evidence Act in short).

19) Both PWs-2 and 3 denied through their cross-examination that they had
acrimonious relationship with the accused, because their elder daughter
eloped with him. They have denied that the accused has been falsely
implicated as they have an acrimonious relationship with him. This theory of
lodging a false case against the accused, because their elder daughter eloped
with him, has no leg to stand. If PWs-2 and 3 wanted to rope in the accused
person in a false case, they would not have used their nine year old daughter
to behave in such an immoral way with false charges of a deplorable act
against her own brother-in-law. It is evident through their cross-examination
that they had a cordial relationship and this is why the victim was allowed to
go out at night with the accused and help him with the torch light. PW-3 also
admitted in her cross-examination that there is a Church near the place of
occurrence. The theory of false accusation due to an acrimonious relationship
cannot be accepted. Moreover, the submissions that there was no possibility
to commit rape on a place where there are other residences and a Church,
also cannot be accepted. The place of occurrence has been properly
described vide Ext. 5. It is clear that Ext. ‘A’ is the place of occurrence, Ext.
‘C’ is the Phukan Bari Drain which has been accurately described by the
victim. ‘D’ is the tea garden and ‘B’ is the Tinikuria Gaon. Ext. 5 has been
prepared by the IO Sri Biraj Kumar Dutta.

20) The evidence of PWs-1, 2 and 3 is also supported and corroborated by the
evidence of the MO Dr. Nibedita Shyam who testified as PW-6 that on 12-06-
13, she was working as GDMO in the Department of Forensic Medicine,
Assam Medical College & Hospital at Dibrugarh. On that day, she examined
the victim in connection with this case and found the following:

On genital examination: Vulva is reddened and tendered with fourchette
tear which bleeds on touch. Hymen: recent tear present at 6 O’ clock
position margins of which are reddened tender, oedematous and bleeds
on touch and hymenal orifice admits one finger with difficulty. Vagina is

reddened and tender on touch. Vaginal smears were taken from posterior
fornix in and around the vagina result of which does not show any
spermatozoa.

21) On the basis of Physical examination, Radiological & Laboratory Investigation
done on the victim 'X', the MO opined that-

i. Evidence of recent sexual intercourse not detected on her
person. However, findings are suggestive of forceful vaginal
penetration;

ii. | Evidence of injury detected on her private parts as described in
Form-II 20(b, c & d);

iii. | Her age is above 9 years and below 12 years.

Ext. 3 is the Medico-legal Report wherein Ext. 3(1) to Ext. 3(3) are the
signature of the MO.

22)From the evidence of PW-6, it is clear that recent tear was found on the
hymen of the victim and margins were reddened and tender. There was
oedematous and bleeding on touch and hymenal orifice admits one finger
with difficulty. The vagina was reddened and tender on touch. According to
her opinion, the evidence of recent sexual intercourse not detected on her
person, but evidences are suggestive of forceful vaginal penetration.

23)In her cross-examination, she testified that hymenal tear may be caused by
falling on the ground with force.

24) It is clear from the opinion of the doctor that findings are suggestive of
forceful vaginal penetration. There is nothing to disbelieve the testimony of
the victim. The doctor's evidence confirms that the victim sustained injuries
on her vagina immediately after the incident. PWs-1, 2 and 3 have clearly
described the assault and the injuries.

25) The evidence of PWs-1, 2 and 3 inspire confidence, because their evidence
remained uncontradicted and uncontroverted. PW-1's evidence remained
consistent throughout. The evidence of other witnesses also supports and
fortified the evidence of the victim.

26) Sri Ashitosh Nand testified as PW-4 that the alleged incident took place about
two years ago. on that evening, at about 8/8:30 pm, the informant along
with the victim cane to his house and informed him that the accused
committed rape on his victim daughter and he requested him to accompany
them to the police station, as he was a VDP member of the locality.

Thereafter, he went along with the victim to the police station and he lodged
an ejahar with the police.

27) This witness was cross-examined regarding his omission to state before the
IO that the informant and his daughter came and informed him about the
incident. The IO was cross-examined, but this omission was not affirmed
through his cross-examination. It is thereby held that the evidence of this
witnesses also remained uncontradicted and uncontroverted.

28) The evidence of PW-1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 is also supported and corroborated by
the evidence of Sri Benjamin Kandopan who testified as PW-5 that one day,
while he was on duty, he saw the police and when he querried, he was
informed that the police had come to Silash Takri’s house, as his daughter
was raped by the accused person.

29) The evidence of PWs-1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 is also corroborated and supported
by the evidence of Sri Robin Takri who testified as PW-7 that the accused is
his brother-in-law and the victim is his sister. The alleged incident took place
in the month of June, 2013. On that day, he reached home at about 9:00 pm
and then his parents informed him that the accused committed rape on his
sister 'X' by taking her in to the garden situated near their house. He noticed
that his sister was weeping. His parents went to the Tengakhat Police Station
and lodged an ejahar. On the next day, the police came to his housie and
recorded his statement. The police seized one stick from the place of
occurrence. Ext. 4 is the Seizure-List and Ext. 4(1) is his signature. His
evidence also remained uncontradicted.

30) The evidence of PW-1 upto PW-7 is also supported and corroborated by the
evidence of Sri Simion Takri who testified as PW-8 that both the accused and
the victim are known to him. The incident occurred in the month of June,
2013. On the day of the incident, he was in his house. On the next day, he
went to the complainant's house and learnt from him and his wife that the
accused committed rape on their daughter on the previous night at about
7:00 pm inside the garden situated near their house. Then the informant
Silash Takri lodged an ejahar with the police at Tengakhat Police Station. The
police visited the place of occurrence and recorded his statement. The police
seized one stick from the place of occurrence. Ext. 4 is the Seizure-List and
Ext. 4(1) is his signature.

31) Although he testified that he did not know what was written in the Seizure-

List, yet this ignorance is insignificant and this does not thwart the evidence.
10

32) The evidence of all the witnesses from PW-1 upto PW-8 is supported and
corroborated by the evidence of the IO Sri Biraj Kumar Dutta who testified as
PW-9 that on 11-06-13, he was posted at Tengakhat Police Station. On that
day, the Officer-in-charge (OC in short) received an FIR and registered a
Tengakhat PS Case No. 57/13 under Sections 376(f) IPC and endorsed him
with the investigation. He met the complainant Silash Takri in the police
station and recorded his statement. He visited the place of occurrence on the
same day and recorded the statements of the victim and other witnesses and
prepared the Sketch-Map. Ext. 5 is the Sketch-Map and Ext. 5(1) is his
Signature. He seized a wooden stick from the place of occurrence which was
used by the accused for catching frogs. Ext. 4 is the Seizure-List and Ext. 4(3)
is his signature. On the next day, he forwarded the victim for medical
examination and also for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. He
made several attempts to arrest the accused, but could not arrest him. He
obtained the Medico-legal Report of the victim on 25-06-13. After completion
of investigation, he submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused declaring
him as absconder. Ext. 6 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 6(1) is his signature.

33) It is pertinent to mention at this stage that the learned defence counsel laid
stress in his argument that the Medico-legal Report depicts that the victim
was above nine years and below twelve years. This submission of the learned
defence counsel is also taken into consideration. Two years on the higher side
of twelve years is taken into consideration and the accused is given the
benefit of the two years on the higher side of twelve years and thereby, he is
not held guilty of the offence under Section 6 POCSO Act. He was not even
charged under Section 6 POCSO Act.

34) The learned defence counsel also laid stress in his argument that the victim’s
garments were not sent for forensic examination. The wooden stick was also
not exhibited in the Court. It was also submitted that all the witnesses are
related witnesses and they are partisan.

35) It is clear that all the witnesses are not related witnesses. PWs-4, 5 and 8 are
independent witnesses. There is clinching evidence that the accused is
complicit. The victim’s evidence is consistent and she has clearly testified and
implicated the accused that he committed penetrative sexual assault upon
her. The MO’s evidence also suggests vaginal penetration.

36) The victim's evidence inspires confidence and so thus the evidence of all the
11

other witnesses. The evidence of all the witnesses remained uncontradicted.
Thereby the accused is held guilty of the offence under Section 4 POCSO Act.
There is clinching evidence that the accused committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim 'X'.

37) I have heard the accused on the point of sentence. He has submitted that he
has three minor children and if he is confined behind the bars for several
years, his children will suffer immensely. He has contemplated the fate of his
children.

38)I have considered the facts and circumstances of this case. This is an act of
depravity and has to be abhored by the society at large. Such an act has to
be deprecated and deterrent and exemplary punishment is the need of the
hour.

SENTENCE:

39) The accused Sri Ashananda Bania is convicted under Section 4 of the POCSO
Act and is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI in short) for 7
(seven) years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand) only
and in default of payment of fine, to undergo RI for 1 (one) month. The
period of detention of the accused during investigation and trial is set off with
his custodial sentence.

40) Destroy the seized articles as per law.

41) The victim who has undergone such an ordeal, deserves compensation. This
case is thereby recommended for compensation to the District Legal Services
Authority, Dibrugarh to decide the quantum of compensation to be awarded
to the victim under the Assam Victim Compensation Scheme, 2012.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 1* day of
August, 2018.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
12

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:

1. PW-1 The victim 'X';

2. PW-2 Mr. Silash Takri;

3. PW-3 Smti. Jhorna Takri;

4. PW-4 Sri Ashitosh Nand;

5. PW-5 Sri Benjamin Kandopan;

6. PW-6 Dr. Nibedita Shyam;

7. PW-7 Sri Robin Takri;

8. PW-8 Sri Simion Takri; and

9. PW-9 Sri Biraj Kumar Dutta.
List of Exhibits:

1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;

2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;

3. Ext. 3 Medico-legal Report;

4. Ext. 4 Seizure-List;

5. Ext. 5 Sketch-Map; and

6. Ext. 6 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
