IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: ShriS. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaiji,

E E NO. H
U/S 366 (A)/366 of IPC R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

The State of Assam
~ Versus —
1. Smti Basanti Barman
W/O Subhash Barman,
Vill. Adi-pathar,
P.S, Silapathar,
ENS DROMOM isc amas eazecRRRE Accused

Appearance:
ShriA. Fogla, Public Prosecutor  ———kaeceesuees For the State

Shri K.C. Sonowal, Advocate acne, For the Accused

Dates of prosecution evidence : 30-03-2016, 27-06-2016, 15-09-2016,
07-01-2017, 23-11-2017, 10-05-2018

and 01-09-2018.

Date of argument : 26-02-2019.

Date of Judgment : 05-03-2019.
JUDGMENT:

i; The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 09-08-2015
complainant- Shri Aimon Debnath lodged an ejahar with the Likabali Patrol
Post under Silapathar Police Station alleging interalia that on 23-07-2015 his
minor daughter Smt. Phulmati Debnath aged about 15 years went to a Birth
Day Party of her friend and thereafter, she did not come back home. They
searched for her but they did not find her. It is stated in the ejahar that on
09-08-2015 they came to know that some unknown person kidnapped his
daughter and kept her confined in Rajasthan and now both victim and the
accused are in the custody of Rajasthan Police.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused persons- Shri Shyam Prajapati and Smti Basanti
Barman u/s 366(A) of IPC.

3. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 366 of IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO
Act against accused- Shyam Prajapati and charge u/s 366 (A) of IPC against
the accused- Smti Basanti Barman. The charges were read-over and
explained to the accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined three witnesses. At the
closure of the prosecution evidence statements of the accused persons were
recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the defence
adduced no evidence in support of their case.

4. During trial, accused-Shyam Prajapati absconded. The case

against him was filed vide order dated 10-08-2017. Hence, the case
proceeded against accused-Smt. Basanti Barman only.
5.Point for determination :
(1) That, on 23-07-2018 after 2 PM at Adi-pathar Village under
Silapathar Police Station induced SMt. PHulmoti Devnath, a minor girl
under the age of 18 years, to go with Shyam Prajapati and thereby
you committed an offence punishable u/s 366(A) of IPC.

6. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

7. PW1 Smti Phulmati Debnath stated that she knows accused
Shyam Prajapati and accused Basanti Barman. Complainant Shri Aiman
Debnath is her uncle (8ordeota). The occurrence took place about 9 months
back (from the date of her deposition). Manisha and Anita, daughters of her
uncle, came to their house and stayed for three days. While they returned to
their house, they left their clothes in their house. She went to her uncle’s
house to give the clothes. While she was returning home she met accused
Basanti Barman on the road. She (Basanti) called her to the birth day party.
As she refused to go with Basanti, she forcibly got up her in to a vehicle
and took her to Silapathar. Accused-Shyam Prajapati was at Silapathar.
Accused Basanti sent her to Lakhimpur with accused-Shyam Prajapati. He
(Shyam Prajapati) kept her in a hotel at Lakhimpur and had sexual
intercourse with her for two days. Accused-Shyam Prajapati penetrated his
penis into her vagina. He (Shyam) asked her not to make hue and cry. So,
she did not raise any hue and cry. Shyam Prajapati first took her to Guwahati
by bus and thereafter took her to Rajasthan by train. At Rajasthan she told to
a girl about the occurrence and she took her to the police station. Later on
her father with the help of police brought back her home. Doctor examined
her medically. Police and Magistrate also questioned her.
In cross-examination PW1 stated that on the date of occurrence
there was no any person with accused-Basanti Barman. She denied the
defence suggestion that she did not state before the Magistrate that Basanti
did not forcibly take her to Silapathar by the vehicle. Basanti went to
Silapathar with her. It is denied that Basanti did not take her to Silapathar in
a vehicle. Accused took her to Guwahati from Lakhimpur by Bus. She was
taken to Rajasthan by train. She did not raise hue and cry as accused
threatened her. She also denied that she was not taken to Rajasthan. It is
also denied that she has given false evidence.

8. PW2 Shri Aimon Debnath stated that Exhibit-1 is the ejahar
filed by him. He has filed this case about kidnapping of his grand-daughter
Phulmati. Police of Rajasthan recovered Phulmoti. Phulmoti was brought back
to Silapathar from Rajasthan by her father with the help of police. On being
asked to Phulmoti , she told that accused Basanti took her to Silapathar by a
vehicle and thereafter accused-Shyam Prajapati took her from Silapathar to
Lakhimpur and thereafter to Guwahati and from Guwahati she was taken to
Rajasthan. Phulmoti also told that accused-Shyam had sexual intercourse
with her. Police recorded his statement.

In cross-examination PW2 denied that he has given false
evidence. The ejahar was written by another person. He did not read-over
the contents of the ejahar. He narrated the facts of the case to the scribe
and accordingly, the scribe wrote the ejahar.

9. PW3 Shri Ambika Debnath stated that he knows accused-
Shyam Prajapati. Phulmoti Debnath is the niece of Aimon Debnath. The
occurrence took place about one year back. Phulmoti Debnath was missing.
Later on, police recovered Phulmoti from Rajasthan. He heard that she was
recovered from your house. Police brought you and Phulmoti to Silapathar.
He did not ask anything to Phulmoti.

Defence declined to cross-examine PW3
10. PW4 Shri Nipul Debnath stated that he knows accused-Shyam
Prajapati and Basanti Barman. Complainant is his elder brother. Phulmoti
Debnath is his niece. Name of the father of Phulmoti is Nokul Debnath. The
occurrence took place about one year back. Accused Basanti Barman came to
their house. Basanti took Phulmoti to the birthday party. As Phulmoti did not
come back home, they went to the house of Basanti but they did not meet
her. On the next day they met accused Basanti Barman. Some persons also
accompanied him to Basanti Barman’s house. On being asked to Basanti
Barman, she told that Phulmoti went with her up to M.E.S., thereafter where
Phulmoti has gone, she did not know. They searched for Phulmoti, but did
not find her. Later on Aimon Debnath lodged complaint at police station.
Police recovered Phulmoti from Rajasthan later on. On being asked, Phulmoti
told that accused-Shyam Prajapati took away Phulmoti. Police recorded his
statement.

In cross-examine PW4 stated that he did not ask the victim
Phulmoti how Shyam Prajapati took her to Rajasthan. He denied the defence
suggestion that he lied that the accused-Basanti took the victim to a Birth
Day Party.

11, PW5 Shri Bhairab Debnath stated that he knows accused-
Basanti Barman and the other co-accused. He knows Aiman Devanath and
Phulmoti Debnath her niece. It was one year ago. After about 4 days of the
incident Surmai Debnath came and told that Phulmoti was missing and since
Phulmoti was his niece, he also searched for her but did not find her. Then a
meeting was called and in that meeting the villagers suspected accused-
Basanati and accused-Shyam Prajapati as Phulmoti used to go to her. They
asked them (accused) but they have said that they did not know. Amibika
Debnath had seen Phulmoti with accused- Basanti at M.E.S., Likabali. They
did not find Phulmoti and then Aimon filed the case. The police brought
Phulmoti back form Rajasthan and now she is with Aimon. She did not ask
anything to Phulmoti.

In cross-examine PW5 denied the defence suggestion that he
had not heard from Ambika about seeing Phulmoti with Basanti.

12. PW6 Smti Suradhani Debnath stated that she knows accused-
Shyam Prajapati and the accused Basanti Barman. He also knows Aimon
Debnath and Phulmoti Debnath who are their neighbours. It was one year
back. Phulmoti’s mother was crying and when she asked her she told that
Phulmoti was missing for about 4 days. Later Phulmoti had returned. She did
not ask Phulmoti anything.

Defence declined to cross-examine PW6.

13. PW7 Shri Apul Debanth stated that he knows accused-Shyam
Prajapati and Basanti Barman. He knows Aiman Debnath and Phulmoti
Debnath. It was last year. On that day he was making the fence and
accused-Basanti had come there twice. Thereafter he had gone to the market
and on his return he had asked his mother where Phulmoti was and she said
that Phulmoti had gone with Basanti to have a birthday. Phulmoti did not
return and they searched for her. Then Aiman filed the case. Then Sonowal
Sir (IO) recovered Phulmoti from Rajasthan. He asked Phulmoti and she had
told him that accused-Basanti had taken her to have birthday and then she
gave her to Shyam Prajapati, who then took her to Rajasthan.

In cross-examination PW7 stated that police had questioned him.
He denied the defence suggestion that he had not told the police that he
asked Phulmoti and she had told him that Basanti had taken her to have birth
day and then she gave her to Shyam Prajapati who then took her to
Rajasthan.

14. PW8 Subal Devnath stated that complainant is his elder
brother. Accused Shyam Prajapati and Basanti Barman are known to him.
Victim Phulmati Devnath is his niece. The incident took place in the year
2015. On the date of occurrence Phulmati had gone to her maternal uncle’s
home to attend birthday party. But she did not return home till late at night.
Then they started to search for her but they could not find. Then they
reported the matter to Likabali Police. 5/6 days after the incident after his
niece went missing they received information from Jaypur Police Station,
Rajasthan that Phulamati is in the custody of police. Then they along with
police went to Rajasthan and they met Phulmati at Joypur police station and
brought her back to Dhemaji. At the time of occurrence Phulmati was aged
about 15 years. Police also apprehended the accused-Shyam and brought
him to Silapathar police station from Rajasthan. Then they handed over the
accused-Shyam Prajapati and the victim to Silapathar police. On being asked
Phulmati told us that she had been kidnapped by the accused Shyam
Prajapati. She also told that accused-Shyam Prajapati made the plane for
kidnapping by staying in the house of accused Basanti Barman.

In cross-examination PW-8 stated that police examined him in
connection with this case. He denied that accused Basanti Barman was not
involved in the alleged offence.

15. PW9 Dr. Chandrajit Doley stated that on 18-08-2015 he was
serving as M&HO 1 at Silapathar Model Hospital. On that day at 10:30 AM he
examined Phulmoti Devnath aged about 15 years female, daughter of Lt.
Nakul Devnath on police requisition. She was identified and escorted by WPC,
Janaki Chetry Barman. On examination he found as follows:-

Marks of identification- Black mole over right side of the face.
History-

Description of the incident- She was forcefully taken away by
the accused person and was forced to have sexual intercourse with the
accused.
i. Whether oriented in space & time — yes

ii. Pulse -72th BP-120/80, Temp-36.5 Res. Rate-14 per
minute

iii. Pupils- NSNR

iv. Clothing- Fresh

Whether the victim has washed her genitalia/mouth/anal canal
and changed her clothes or not after the incident- yes.

Examination for iniuries:-

(Look for Bruises, Systemic Physical torture injuries, Nail abrasions, Teeth
bite marks, Cuts, lacerations, head-injury, any other injury)

Injury Site - No injury
Pubic Hair combing- Not present

Labia Majora—Any swelling, tears, edematous, bruises or
abrasion—No injury.

ws" Labia Minora—Scratch, bruising, fingernail marks tear, infection-
(\? No injury.
special U00® Fourchette—Bleeding, tear- No injury

Divers.

Vulva—Any injury, bleeding, discharge-No injury

Hyment-Intact/Torn- Not present

Injury-fresh/oedema/congestion/tenderness

Vagina & Cervix (Any Bleeding/tear /dpsckarge/edea/teder,ess)-
No injury.

Opinion- After physical examination and pathological
examination there is no any evidence of recent forceful sexual intercourse or
ar’

violence mark on her body or private parts. According to the birth certificate,
her age is 15 years.

Ext.2 is medical repor and Ext.2(1) is his signature.

Defence declined to cross-examine PW9 ( Doctor).

16. PW10 Shri JUgal Sonowal stated that on 09-08-2015 he was
posted at Likabali P.P. as I/C. On that day, he received an ejahar from Shri
Aimon Debnath. He made GD Entry vide No.114 dated 09-08-2015 and
forwarded the original copy of ejahar to OC Silapathar for registering a case.
He took up investigation. Informant appeared in the patrol post and he
recorded his statement at the PP. On the same day OC registered a case
vide PS Case No.202/15 u/s 366A IPC and entrusted him for investigation of
this case. He sought permission from SP to move to Rajasthan to recover the
victim girl and SP accorded permission. On his arrival at Jodhpur PS in
Rajasthan he found that Jodhpur police apprehended accused-Shyam
Prajapati and the victim and brought him and the victim to Police Station.
Accused-Shyam Prajapati and the victim were handed over to him by Jodhpur
Police and he brought them to Silapathar P.S. He arrested the accused-
Shyam Prajapati and forwarded him to court. Victim was medically examined
and she was produced before Magistrate for recording her statement u/s 164
Cr.PC. He visited the PO and drew sketch map. He also recorded statement of
witnesses. During investigation he found material showing Basanti Barman
(accused) involvement in this case. Accordingly, he arrested her and
forwarded her to court. After completion of investigation he filed charge-
sheet u/s 366 A IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO against accused- Shyam
Prajapati and u/s 109 IPC against the accused- Basanti Barman. Ext.3 is GD
Entry. Ext.3(1) is his signature. Ext.4 is sketch map. Ext.4(1) is his signature.
He seized original birth certificate from the complainant. Ext.5 is seizure list
and Ext.5(1) is his signature. Ext.6 is the statement of victim Phulmati
10

Debnath u/s 164 Cr.PC. Victim put thumb impression in her statement. Ext.7
is the Charge- sheet and Ext.7(1) is his signature.
Appreciation of Evidence :

17. From the discussion of the evidence on record it appears the
victim has been examined as Pw. In her evidence-in chief victim identified
accused Basanti Barman and categorically stated that on the relevant date
and at the relevant time accused Basanti Barman forcibly took her to
Silapathar and at silapathar she was handed over to Shyam Prajapati and
Shyam Prajapati took her to lakhimpur and then took her to Gauhati and then
to Rajasthan. Victim also stated that accused had sexual intercourse with her
in the hotel at Lakhimpur.

18. Other non-official PWS spoke of the victim being kidnapped and
also spoke of the involvement of accused Basanti and Shyam prajapati in
taking away the victim. It is in the evidence of the PWS that the victim along
with the accused were recovered from Rajasthan. The IO stated that he went
to Rajasthan and brought the victim and the accused from Rajasthan on
being caught and handed over by Jodhpur PS, Rajasthan.

19, On careful scrutiny of the evidence of PWs it is found that the
PWS have given consistent and convincing evidence which would show the
involvement of accused Basanti Barman in taking away the victim.

20. Now let me see whether the act of the accused constitutes an
offence u/s 366(A) IPC.

Sec 366 IPC reads : ‘Kidnapping, abducting or inducing
woman to compel her marriage, etc. - Whoever kidnaps or abducts
any woman with intent that she may be compelled, or knowing it to
be likely she will be compelled, to marry any person against her will,
or in order that she may be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, or
knowing it to be likely that she will be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description
11

of a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to
fine.’

“To bring home the guilt of the accused under sec. 366, it is
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the accused induced the
Prosecutrix or compelled her by force to go from any place; that such
inducement was by deceitful means; that such kidnapping or
abduction took place with the intent that the prosecutrix may be
seduced to illicit intercourse and/or that the accused knew it to be
likely that the prosecutrix may be induced to illicit intercourse as a
result of her abduction or kidnapping.”

21. I have carefully scrutinised the evidence on record. The victim
has categorically stated in her evidence that while she was returning from her
uncle’s house, accused Basanti Barman met her on the road and Basanti
asked her to come with her to attend a birthday party. When she refused to
go with her, Basanti forcibly got her in to a vehicle and took her to Silapathar.
At Silapathar Basanti handed her over to accused Shyam Prajapati and
accused Shyam Prajapati took her to Lakhimpur and then to Rajasthan. As
per statement of PW10, the IO, the victim was recovered from Rajasthan
after filing of the ejahar in this case.

22. It may be mention here that the accused Shyam Prajapati
absconded and Basanti Barman is facing trial. From the prosecution evidence
brought on record it is found that Basanti Barman took the victim to
Silapathar without the consent of her jawful guardian. It is not in dispute that
the victim is aged 15 years as stated by MO on the basis of birth certificate of
the victim. As per Ext.5 seizure list police seized birth certificate from the
victim and police also mentioned in the seizure list that her date of birth is
12-09-2000. The date of occurrence was 23-07-2015. So the ingredients of
kidnapping are established in this case thereby a case u/s 363 IPC is made
out. However we find that as discussed above the ingredients sec 366(A) IPC
are not fully proved.
12

23. In view of the above I find that prosecution has been able to
prove offence u/s 363 IPC against the accused Basanti Barman beyond all
reasonable doubt.

ORDER:
24, In the result I find accused Basanti Barman guilty u/s 363 IPC.
Accordingly she is convicted thereunder.
25. Heard the accused on the point of sentence.

26. The accused stated that she has a minor child and she is very
poor lady and she is making her living working as day labourer and she has
her minor child aged about 5 months. So, she pleaded for mercy.

27. Considering all aspect accused is sentenced to S.I. for 3 (three)
months and to pay a fine of Rs.500 (five hundred) i/d for another 1 (one)
month.

28. Set off the period of detention.
29. A copy of judgment free of cost be given to the accused
persons.
30. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
31. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 05" day
of March/2019.
yo”
6|°
( S. Das )
spatial Ldyese

Perthaii.
