Page 1 of 16

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

14 OF 2015
(Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 1301 of
2015)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS

Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Ranjit Mech,
Son of Sri Sukleswar Mech,
Resident of New Ghaghra
Police Station — Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
09/09/2015

09/10/2015 & 01/07/2016

27/07/2016.

02/09/2016.

08/09/2016.

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. A. Mahanta and Mr. R. Phukan,
Advocates.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Ranjit Mech is put for trial for allegation of charge

under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The factual matrix of the case in brief is that on or about 3.15 p.m. of
02-06-2015 at village No. 2 Natun Ghagra under Tezpur Police Station the

 
Page 2 of 16

accused wrongfully trespassed into the house of the informant Dinesh Kurmi,
grabbed his 12 years minor daughter from backside and attempted to commit
rape on her. As his minor daughter raised alarm, so the accused fled away.
Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by complainant Sri Dinesh
Kurmi before the I/C of Salonibari police Out Post under Tezpur Police station
on 04-06-2015.

a On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Incharge of Salonibari Police
Out Post by giving the GD Entry No. 110 dated 04-06-2015 forwarded the same
to Officer-In-Charge of Tezpur Police Station for registering a case and SI Omar
Faruk was entrusted to investigate the case. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C of
Tezpur Police station registered a case being Tezpur P.S. Case No. 613/15 u/s
376(f)/511 of IPC read with section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012 by giving the GD
Entry No. 168 dated 04-06-2015. After completion of usual investigation, the
I.O. sent up the accused for trial by filing charge sheet u/s 376(f)/511 of IPC
read with section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused Ranjit Mech.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, my learned
predecessor-in-Court, after hearing both parties, framed charge under section
8 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused and particulars of the charge was
read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not guilty and claims to
be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as five
numbers of witnesses which includes the informant, victim, other material

witnesses and the Investigating Officer.

6. After completion of prosecution evidence accused is examined u/s 313
Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and evidence appears
against the accused are put before him for explanation where he denied the

allegations and declined to adduce defence evidence.

7. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of both

sides.

 
Page 3 of 16

8. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on or about 5.30 p.m. of 02/06/2015, at No.2 New
Ghaghra, under Tezpur Police station the accused committed sexual
assault on "Miss X (aged about 12 years) and thereby committed an
offence punishable under section 8 of the Protection of Child from
Sexual Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on

record.

10. PW 1 Dr. Bhibha Nani Keot, has deposed that 05-06-2016 while she was
posted as a Sr. M & H.O at Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur, she examined Miss
Momi Kurmi in reference to Tezpur PS Case No. 613/15, on being escorted and
identified by women HG Runumi Borah of Tezpur PS and in presence of GNM
Khaneswari Narzary vide Hospital emergency OPD No. 13705/15 dt. 05-06-
2015. Consent not given to examine her private parts by her guardian Dinesh
Kurmi and found that the victim has not attended menarche. No history of

sexual exposure. Identification mark — no prominent identification mark seen.

Height — 139 cm., Weight — 29 Kg, Teeth — 6 in all four quadrants.

At the time of examination, she was well dressed, neat and tidy
and normal gait. No injury marks seen on the exposed part of her body. Private
parts are not examined as consent is not given.

Investigation advised and report-

1. X-ray for age determination (hand, wrist joint, elbow joint and iliac
crest) Done at Assam X-ray Clinic & Laboratory by Radiologist Dr.
P.K. Barman dt. 08-06-2015.

Report -

Epiphysis of the base of the first metacarpal is not united with its shafts.
Epiphysis of lower ends of the radius and ulna are opened.

Epiphysis of the medial and lateral epicondyles of humerus are not
united.

Epiphysis of iliac crest has not appeared.

 
Page 4 of 16

Impression : Age of the person under investigation appears to be below
14 years.

OPINION:
1. No injury marks on exposed parts of her body.
2. Age of the victim is below 14 years.

Ext. 1 is the Medical Report and Ext. 1(1) is her signature. Ext. 2 is the
X-ray report with plates and Ext. 2 (1) is the signature of Dr. P.K. Barman,
Radiologist, which is known to her. Ext. 3 is the advice slip and Ext. 3(1) is her
signature.

In cross-examination PW 1 admitted that the assessment of age may
vary two years of age.
11. PW 2 Sri Dinesh Kurmi, father of the victim girl and informant of this
case, has stated that on the day of occurrence his wife told him about the
incident. His wife stated that her daughter told her that the accused groped his
daughter from behind her breast. When he asked his daughter she also told
him crying that the accused groped her daughter from behind on her breast.

Accordingly he filed the ejahar Ext. 4 and Ext. 4(1) is his signature.

Though PW 2 he has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestion, the evidence as to he was reported about the matter
by his wife that accused Ranjit Mech groped his daughter from behind on her
breast and when he asked his daughter she told him by crying that at the
relevant time the accused groped her breast from behind, has remained

unchallenged.

12. PW 3, Smti Lakheswari Kurmi, the mother of the victim girl, stated that
the occurrence took place at about 4 months ago in the evening. She also
stated that the age of her daughter was 12 years at the time of occurrence.
When she was coming from hotel, she met her daughter on the way. They
came back to their house. Her daughter i.e. the victim told her that the accused
came to their house and asked for tobacco when her daughter told that there is
no tobacco, the accused went back. Lateron, the accused again came to their

house and groped her daughter's breast. Lateron she informed this incident to

 
Page 5 of 16

her husband. Her daughter also informed about the incident to her husband.

Later on, on 4" her husband lodged an FIR.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination, except giving
many suggestion the evidence as to victim daughter told her that the accused
came to their house and asked for tobacco when her daughter told that there is
no tobacco, the accused went back, lateron, the accused again came to their

house and groped her daughter’s breast has remained unchallenged.

13. PW 4“Miss X” (victim) has stated that the incident took place on 02-06-
2015 at 6 p.m. when she was in her house with her sister who went out to
play. Her mother and father were at Hotel. She was alone in her house. The
accused came to their house and asked for tobacco. She told the accused that
tobacco is not there. Thereafter, the accused caught hold of her breast from
backside. Then she shouted and the accused left the place. She was very afraid
and went out to inform her mother. Accordingly, she narrated the whole
incident to her mother. She also stated about the incident to her mother and
father at night. In the next day there was a village meeting and then her father
lodged the FIR. Thereafter, she was taken for medical examination and she
was also brought to the court and there she narrated the incident to the
Magistrate. She also put signatures in her statement. Ext. 5 is her statement

and Ext. 5(1) and 5(2) are her signatures.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination, the evidence
as to at the relevant time accused came to their house, asked her tobacco,

then accused caught hold her breast from backside has remained unchallenged.

14, PW 5 Omar Faruk, the I.O. of this case, has stated before the court
that on 04-06-2015 he was posted at Salonibari Police Out Post as Incharge.
On that day, one IPS Officer was named Bhawal Lal Mina was the I/C of the
Out Post. The matter was entered into the GD Entry as GD Entry No. 110 dt.
04-06-2015. On that day one Dinesh Kurmi filed an ejahar alleging that on 02-
06-2015 at about 5.30 p.m. while he was not present in his house, the accused
Ranjit Mech had entered into his house and caught hold of his 12 years

daughter and tried to sexually assault her. He also stated in the ejahar that his

 
Page 6 of 16

daughter had raised alarm over the incident and the accused fled. Ext. 4(2) is
the signature of I/C Bhawal Lal Mina. The ejahar was sent to Tezpur Police
station for registering a case and accordingly O/C Tezpur PS registered a case
being No. 613/15 u/s 376(F)/511 of IPC r/w section 4 of the POSCO Act and
endorsed him for investigation of this case. Ext. 4(3) is the signature of O/C

Rafiqul Haque of Tezpur PS which he knew.

On the same day, at about 9.30 p.m., he had visited the place of
occurrence and also recorded the statements of informant, victim and other
witnesses available at the place of occurrence. He had also prepared the sketch
map of the place of occurrence. Ext. 6 is the sketch map and Ext. 6(1) is his

signature.

Next day the victim was sent to Medical examination and to the Court
for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. After completion of the
investigation, he had collected the medical certificate, arrested the accused
Ranjit Mech and forwarded him to the Court. Thereafter, he had filed the
charge sheet on 30-06-2015 against the accused u/s 376(F)/511 of IPC r/w
section 4 of the POSCO Act. Ext. 7 is the charge sheet and Ext. 7(1) is his

signature.

During cross-examination, the PW 5 has admitted that while receiving
the ejahar Bhawal Lal Mina, I/C of the Out post, has not mentioned in his note
about the time of receiving the ejahar. In the case diary he has not mentioned
who accompanied the informant to the Out post. On 04-06-2015, at 9.15 a.m.
he had started his investigation. He had recorded the statement of the
informant at about 10.30 a.m. in the Police Out Post who went to the place of
occurrence on his own will without being led by anyone. At the time of filing or
after filing of the ejahar, members of Tea Tribes Students Association did not
come to the Police Out Post. The accused in this case belongs to Bodo
community. The informant belongs to Ex-Tea Tribe Community. During the
period of investigation he never found that the case was filed on pressure made

by Tea Tribes Students Association.

15. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case.

 
Page 7 of 16

16. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the case was filed by
the complainant on a baseless, concocted story against the accused. Victim
called the accused as “Mama” and so he used to visit the house of the victim.
Learned counsel for the accused has also submitted that other than parents of
the victim, no independent witness was examined by the prosecution, even
there was a village “mel” held for the allegation of the incident. That apart the
victim was not examined medically, as such the accused is required to be

acquitted.

17. On the other hand, learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond all shadow of
doubt, as such required to be convicted under the said section of law. Learned
PP also submitted that in fact there is no enmity in between the accused and
the complainant. Even if there is any strange relation between the parties, it
would not be expected from the complainant to involve his own minor daughter

in such a hatred cases.

Learned PP again submitted that PWs 1 and 2, the father and mother of
the victim, therefore, they are interested witnesses. To rely the interested
witnesses in convicting the accused, learned PP submitted the case of Gali
Venkataiah Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh reported in 2008 Crl.L.J. 690.
In regard to minor discrepancies, learned PP also submitted the case law of
State of UP V. Krishna Master & ors reported in 2010 Crl.L.J.3889.

18. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the learned
counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

19. After going through the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses, it is seen
except the victim, there is no eye witness to the incident, but after the incident,
the victim came out of her house and informed about the incident to her

parents which was corroborated by them.

According to PW 2, the father of the victim stated that he was reported
by his wife. His wife stated that her daughter told her that accused groped his
daughter from behind on her breast. When he asked his daughter she also told

him crying that the accused groped his daughter from backside. Similarly, PW3,

 
Page 8 of 16

the mother of the victim also stated that when she was coming from hotel she
met her daughter on the way, her daughter told her that accused came to their
house and asked for tobacco when her daughter told that there is no tobacco,
the accused went back. Lateron, the accused again came to their house and
groped her daughter’s breast. Lateron she informed this incident to her
husband.

Similarly, the victim also narrated that at the relevant time, she was
alone in their house. Accused came to their house and asked for tobacco. She
told the accused that tobacco is not there. Thereafter, the accused caught hold
of her breast from backside. Then she shouted and then the accused left the
place. She was very afraid and went out to inform her mother. Accordingly, she

narrated the whole incident to her mother.

Though all the aforesaid witnesses i.e. PWs 2,3 and 4 were exposed to
long cross-examination but the presence of the accused at the house of the

victim at the relevant point of time is not challenged by the accused.

20. Learned counsel for the accused argued that the victim is a minor girl
and changed her version in different times, before the police, before the
Magistrate and even in the Court whose statement cannot be considered to

convict the accused.

21. ~~ It is true that in the present case there is no documents like Birth
certificate or age certificate or any certificate issued by the School authority
where the victim last studied etc. available on the record to prove the victim
was a children less than 18 years of age on the date of commission of the
offence. But the medical report is clear that the age of the victim is below 14
years. Though the Doctor (PW 1) has been cross-examined by the learned
counsel for the accused that the assessment of age may vary two years of age,
even if admitted the assessment of age as suggested by the learned counsel for
the accused, her age would have been 14 + 2 = 16 years but cannot cross the
age of 18 years. Besides, none of the witnesses was challenged as to the age

of the victim.

 
Page 9 of 16

22. Inthe case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State, represented by the
Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD) No.98 of 2015, it was held that it
is true that primary evidence to prove the date of birth of the individual may be
preferably the birth certificate. But, it cannot be said that in absence of birth
certificate, the date of birth cannot be proved. When the age of the individual is
not disputed, the question of proving the same does not arise at all. It is the
settled law that a fact in issue or any relevant fact or any fact relevant to the
issue, which is disputed by the adverse party alone, needs proof. If it is not
disputed, there is no need to lead any evidence in proof of the said admitted

fact.

23. In this case, the victim and her parents categorically stated the age of
the victim as 12 years from the very beginning of the case, at the time of
commission of offence, but during cross-examination, the same has not been
disputed at all by the accused side. Thus, the evidence of PWs 2, 3 and 4 (the

victim) in respect of age of the victim remains unchallenged.

24. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the material
particulars with regard to the incident that on the date of incident, she was
alone in their house and the accused came to their home, wants some tobacco,
as the tobacco was not available in their home, so stated to that, the accused
after some time again came, hold her breast from backside. The victim has also
said so before the Magistrate when her statement was recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C
and before the police while her statement recorded u/s 161 of Cr.P.C. and even
in the time of deposing before this court. Though she has been vigorously
cross-examined but the evidence as to the accused groped her breast by
coming from backside has remained unchallenged. The evidence of victim is
cogent and reliable. There cannot be any doubt to disbelieve the evidence of

the victim.

25. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of accused is
not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered much as

prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of all reasonable

 
Page 10 of 16

doubts. However, in a case under POCSO Act, the situation is not so. In this
regard, it will be worthwhile to refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30 of
POCSO Act.

26. U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain offences
and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may be,

unless the contrary is proved.

27. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special Court shall
draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state of the accused
where culpable mental state is required on the part of the accused. Section 30
reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any prosecution for
any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of
the accused, the Special Court shall presume that existence of such mental
state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no
such mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that
prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved only
when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not

merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probabilities.

28. The use of expression “shall presume” has been defined in Section 4 of
the Indian Evidence Act. As contrasted from the expression “if presume”, the
expression “shall presume” whenever used connotes “legal presumption” or
“compulsory presumption” as contrasted from “factual presumption” or
“discretionary presumption” emanating from the expression “may presume”.
“Legal presumptions” or “compulsory presumption” as are signified by the use

of expression “shall presume” are inferences or proposition established by law,

 
Page 11 of 16

which the law peremptorily requires to be made whenever the facts appear
which it assumes as the basis of that inference. The presumptions of law are in
reality rules of law, and part of the law itself and the court may draw inference

whenever the requisite facts are developed in pleadings.

29. Similarly whenever any law prescribes that the Court shall presume the
existence of culpable mandatory state or to draw a presumption regarding
commission of any offence, unless the contrary is proved, the onus to prove the
contrary undoubtedly shifts upon the accused. Certainly, it does not discharge
the prosecution of its duty to first establish and prove the facts, the existence
of which can only lead to drawing of any such compulsory presumption or legal
presumption by the use of the expression “shall presume”. Thus, as per Section
29, if a person is prosecuted for committing or abating or attempting to commit
any offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and 9 of POCSO Act, the Special Court shall presume
that such person has committed or abated or attempted to commit the said
offence as the case may be unless the contrary is proved. However, in the
present case, the accused has completely failed in discharging his burden even

by preponderance of probabilities much less beyond reasonable doubt.

30. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be recorded on the
sole testimony of a child witness or not? This issue was dealt by the Hon’ble
Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are
reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On the contrary,
Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may testify — all persons
shall be competent to testify unless the Court considers that they are prevented
from understanding the questions put to them, or from giving rational answers
to those questions, by tender years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body

or mind, or any other cause of the same kind.”

31. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has

intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational answers thereto.

 
Page 12 of 16

The evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected per se, but the
Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with close scrutiny and
only on being convinced about the quality thereof and reliability can record

conviction, based thereon.

32. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra, (1997) 5
SCC 341, it was held that a child witness if found competent to depose to the
facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other
words, even in the absence of oath the evidence of a child witness can be
considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to
understand the questions and able to give rational answer thereof. The
evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the
circumstances of each case. The only precaution which the Court should bear in
mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be
a reliable one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent witness

and there is no likelihood of being tutored.

33. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs — State of
Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on the question
whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence primarily rests with the trial
Judge who notices his manners, his apparent possessions or lack of intelligence,
and the said Judge may resort to any examination which will tend to disclose
his capacity and intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an
oath.

34. In the present case, at the time of examination of the victim, some
questions were put to her and she replied the same without any hesitation and
this Court hold that the victim was able to give rational answers and thereafter
her statement was recorded without oath. Apart from that, other witnesses i.e.
parents of the victim also supported the fact by stating that while they returned
to home, PW 3 (mother of the victim) reported the matter to PW 2(father of the
victim) that the accused in their absence entered into their home, asked

tobacco to her daughter, her daughter told the accused that tobacco is not

 
Page 13 of 16

there. Again the accused came to their house, groped her daughter’s breast
from backside. There is nothing in the cross-examination of any of the
prosecution witnesses which could suggest that they were deposing falsely in
any manner. Various suggestions put to them, but they vehemently denied.
Another point may be discussed in the present case is that the accused
submitted that other than the parents of the victim none has stated about the
incident. It is true that other than the victim none has stated about the
incident. In fact, the incident was taken place inside the house of the
informant. According to the prosecution story, there is none other than the
victim while the accused entered into their home just before the incident. So, it
would be futile to expect others for the prosecution to give evidence as an
independent witness. Another point is to be discussed in the present case is
that as submitted by learned counsel for the accused that other than the victim,
the other witnesses are PW 2 and PW 3, i.e. the father and mother of the victim
respectively, so presumption may be there that they give evidence just to
succeed their case. In this connection, I may mention a case law i.e. Mangal
Singh Vs. State of Madhya Bharat reported in AIR 1957 SC 199, it is held
that "the proposition that when the eye witnesses to the occurrence are
interested persons there should be corroboration of heir evidence by

independent witness, cannot be of an universal application.”

35. Here in the present case as discussed above, the victim did not state
about the incident to any other person other than her parents i.e. PW 2 and 3.
Besides, the allegation against the accused is such a shameful act so it cannot
be expected that the parents of the victim reported the matter to other
persons. Besides, there is no any evidence that the informant or any of the
family members of the victim has any strange relation or quarrel or enmity with
the accused or any of the family members of the accused to falsely implicate
him in such a shameful act by involving their own minor daughter in the
allegation. Under such circumstances, the evidence of the victim as well as the

complainant and others are convincing and reliable.

 
Page 14 of 16

36. Onan appreciation of the evidence given by the victim and her parents,
I find that the victim was sexually assaulted by the accused. Sexual assault is
defined u/s.7 of the POCSO Act that whoever, with sexual intent, touches the
vagina, penis, anus or breast of a child, or makes a child touch the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of such persons, or any other person, or does any other
act with sexual intent which involves physical contact, is said to commit sexual
assault. Section 8 of POCSO Act prescribes the punishment for the offence
defined u/s.7. The offence proved in this case comes under the second part of
Section 7 of POCSO Act, constituting any act done with sexual intent involving
physical contact. The victim of the present case has given a clear evidence that
on the date of incident, the accused came in to the house of the informant,
asking for a tobacoo while she stated they do not have such tobacoo then the
accused returned but again came to their house and groped her breast from
backside. This will very well come u/s.7 of POCSO Act, punishable u/s.8. So, the

accused is convicted thereunder.

37. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he praying for
leniency. The accused has submitted that he is a married person, having his
wife and children. He is the only bread earner of his family, if he is in Jail for
further more period, that will create great trouble in his family and prayed for

leniency.

38. I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well as learned Public

Prosecutor, Sonitpur.

39. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that while
deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court should strike
a balance between aggravating circumstances and mitigating circumstances.
The aggravating circumstances relate to the crime and mitigating circumstances
relate to the criminal. In this case, so far as the aggravating circumstances are
concerned, a minor girl was sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is
not only to the body but also to the mind of not only to the victim but that of

entire family members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the

 
Page 15 of 16

accused was hardly 31 years of age at the time of the incident. It is not brought
to the notice of this Court that before this incident, the accused had committed
any other offence. There is likelihood of his reformation, but the statute u/s.8
of POCSO Act prescribes minimum punishment for a term of three years with
fine. When the intention of the legislator is to impose stringent punishment for
not less than three years, this court has no option but to impose minimum
punishment of three years.
ORDER

40. I convict the accused Ranjit Mech u/s.8 of POCSO Act and
sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 3 (Three) years and also to pay a
fine of Rs.500/- (Rupees Five Hundred only), in default, Rigorous Imprisonment
for one month. The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from

the period of imprisonment, imposed on him.

41. A copy of this judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost
and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur, as per
provisions of law.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 8" day
of September, 2016.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
Page 16 of 16

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 = Dr. Bhiba Noni Keot, M.O.
Prosecution Witness No.2 i- Sri Dinesh Kurmi, informant
Prosecution Witness No.3 i Smt. Lakheswari Kurmi
Prosecution Witness No.4 i Victim.
Prosecution Witness No.5 - Omar Faruk, I.O.
EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 1,2 &3 - Medical Report,X-ray report and
Advice slip.
Exhibit 4 i= Ejahar
Exhibit 5 oe 164 Cr.P.C statement of the victim.
Exhibit 6 '- Sketch map
Exhibit 7 ‘ Chargesheet.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
