IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, AJS
Special Judge,

Bilasipara
Special (POCSO) Case No- 05 of 2018
u/s 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act
State of Assam
-Vs-
Sah Ali @ Sahar Ali

eseees accused person

Date of framing charge ‘= 10-10-2018
Date of recording evidence _ :- 18-03-2019
03-04-2019
24-05-2019
Date of Argument ‘ 04-06-2019
Date of Judgment I 04-06-2019

Advocates Appeared:

For the State of Assam :- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam

For the defence :- Smti Syeda Afroza Akhtar

Ld. Advocate for the accused.

JUDGMENT

1. This case is under section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, in short POCSO Act. So, the name of the victim is not

\W/

mentioned here and she _ is_ referred to, hereinafter, as ‘x’.

Contd. to page no.-2
[2]

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that ‘x’, the informant lodged an
ejahar with the Bilasipara police station on 16-07-2018 informing that a
relation grew between her and the accused Sah Ali @ Sahar Ali. In disguise
of the said relation, the accused Sah Ali @ Sahar Ali went into her house and
had voluptuous act on her. The accused Sah Ali @ Sahar Ali agreed to get
marry her, but due to resistance from her mother, he could not do it.

So, the informant prayed for having necessary action against the
accused.
3. The Bilasipara police station received the ejahar and registered as
Bilasipara police station case no. 842/2018 u/s 6 of POCSO Act. The case
was investigated and having found prima facie u/s 6 of POCSO Act against
the accused Sah Ali @ Sahar Ali, prepared the chargesheet and laid the
same before the court for trial.
4. The accused Sah Ali @ Sahar Ali, hereinafter called as the accused,
appeared in this case and he was furnished copy. Charge was framed u/s 6
of POCSO Act against the accused. The charge was read over and explained
to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined only 4 (four) witnesses, namely-

1. ‘x’/ the victim PW-1
2. Anjira Khatun PW-2
3. Dr. Rinku Ahmed PW-3
4. Jamal Uddin PW-4
6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was

recorded where he denied all allegations leveled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution witnesses and also declined to adduce evidence

in defence.
7. Heard argument for both sides.
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i. Whether accused on 03-04-2018, 05-04-2018, 09-04-2018 and 15-
05-2018 on several occasions at informant’s house at village
Kathaldi Pt. II under Bilasipara PS, committed penetrative sexual

assault on ‘x’ aged about 16 years old repeatedly?

Contd. to page no.-3
[3]

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF
9. In this prosecution case P.W-1 ‘x’ is the informant as well as alleged
victim, P.W-2 Anjira Khatun is the step mother of ‘x’, the alleged victim, P.W-
3 Dr. (Mrs.) Rinku Ahmed is the Medical & Health Officer and P.W-4 Jamal
Uddin is the independent witness.
10. Now let us see the evidence available on record.

P.W-1 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that she is the informant in this
case. She knows the accused, he is her husband. She got married with the
accused one year ago and she is maintaining conjugal life with the accused.
When she was at her in law’s house, there was altercation with her mother-
in-law and this led her to lodge ejahar against the accused. Ext-1 is the said
ejahar. She gave her statement before the Magistrate, Ext-2 is the said
statement.

In her cross P.W-1 has stated that she was 18 (eighteen) years old at

the time of marriage.
11. P.W-2 Anjira Khatun has stated in her evidence that she is the step
mother of ‘x’. ‘x’ was married with the accused and during the conjugal life
with the accused, she was subjected to torture by her mother-in-law and this
led ‘x’ to lodge ejahar against the accused.

In her cross, P.W-2 has stated that ‘x’ is now continuing her conjugal

life with the accused.
12. P.W-4 Jamal Uddin has stated in his evidence that he knows both the
informant and the accused, they are husband and wife. There was
altercation between the informant and the accused. He knew nothing about
the occurrence prior to their marriage.

Cross examination of P.W-4 was declined by the defence.

13. Thus, careful scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1, P.W-2 and P.W-4 shows
that P.W-1 ‘x’ being the informant as well as alleged victim brought no
allegation against the accused. She has simply stated that there was dispute
with her mother-in-law and this led her to lodge this case against the
accused. There is no evidence that the accused committed sexual
intercourse with her on 3%, 5", 9" and 15‘ April of 2018. There is no
evidence that she was below 18 (eighteen) years old at the time of
occurrence. Thus, P.W-1 ‘x’ has adduced evidence not implicating the

accused person.

Contd. to page no.-4
[4]

14. Same is the evidence of P.W-2 and P.W-4. P.W-2 Anjira Khatun has
stated that the mother-in-law of ‘x’ has subjected torture to ‘x’ which led her
to lodge this case. P.W-4 Jamal Uddin has stated that there arose dispute
between ‘x’ and the accused and this led to lodge ejahar against the
accused.

So, according to P.W-2 and P.W-4 there was dispute between
husband and wife and this dispute led ‘x’ to lodge this case against the
accused. So, there found no inculpatory evidence adduced by the
prosecution witnesses against the accused.

15. Now, let us see the evidence of P.W-3 Dr. (Mrs.) Rinku Ahmed, the
Medical & Health Officer.

P.W-3 has stated in her evidence that she had medically examined ‘x’
and found- 1. General examination-normal; 2. No mark of violence;
Laboratory examination- no spermatozoa is seen; Final opinion- No evidence
of recent sexual intercourse or assault. Ext-3 is medical report.

Thus, the evidence of P.W-3 Dr. (Mrs.) Rinku Ahmed also does not
support prosecution case that there was sexual intercourse on ‘x’ by the
accused.

16. Considering all aspects, it leads to conclusion that the prosecution
evidence is not sufficient and reliable to prove the offences as alleged
against the accused. The prosecution evidence is found dearth of merit.

17. The prosecution, thereby, failed to prove its case u/s 6 of POCSO Act
against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.

18. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 6 POCSO Act.

19. Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

The bail bond of accused stands cancelled and bailor is discharged
from liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 04" day of June
2019 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Transcribed & typed by,
S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.
Contd. to page no.-5
[5]

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

P.W-1 ‘x’/ the alleged victim,
PW-2 Anjira Khatun,

PW-3 Dr. (Mrs.) Rinku Ahmed &
PW-4 Jamal Uddin

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Ejahar,
Ext-2 Statement of ‘x’/the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C &
Ext-3 Medical report.

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT WITNESS " NIL
COURT EXHIBITS sf NIL

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
