IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON
Sessions Case No. 02/2015

Present : Mr. P. Das
Sessions Judge, Morigaon.

State of Assam
-VS-

Md. Saifuddin Islam ..... Accused

Date of Charge : 09.03.2015 & 28.01.2019.
Date of Argument : 22.10.2019.
Date of Judgment : 22.10.2019.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State :- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the Accused :- Mr. U.C. Roy, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that one Sri Laveswar Nath lodged an ejahar
dated 26.02.2014 at the Morigaon PS with an allegation that the present accused Md.
Saifuddin Islam by way of inducement kidnapped his minor daughter and thereafter,
he confined her in some unknown place and also committed rape upon her against her
will. On the basis of the said ejahar, Morigaon P.S. Case No. 75/14 was registered
under section 366(A) IPC, which after investigation resulted in a charge-sheet against
the present accused U/s 366(A)/376 IPC. Subsequently, upon perusing the case record
and hearing the learned counsels, charges were framed vide order dated 09.03.2015
against the said accused under section 366(A) IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act and
also upon perusing the evidence on record an additional charge U/s 419 IPC was
framed vide order dated 28.01.2019.

2. At the trial, 4 witnesses were examined including the informant and the

prosecutrix and all of them were cross-examined by the defence side. Due to the
nature of evidence, the prosecution evidence was closed at this stage. Thereafter, the

accused was examined U/s 313 Cr.PC. The defence side did not adduce any evidence.

3. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
Whether the accused person is guilty of committing an offence punishable u/s
366(A)/419 IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. Heard learned Public Prosecutor for the State and the learned defence counsel

 

Mr. U.C. Roy, appearing for the accused person. I have perused the evidence and
other relevant materials on record and also considered the submissions of learned

counsels.

5. PW-1 Sri Laveswar Nath stated in his deposition that he is the informant of the
case and that the prosecutrix is his daughter. He stated that at the time of the incident
the prosecutrix was aged 16 years. That, on the day of the incident he was in the
house along with the prosecutrix and in the evening he came to know that she was
missing from the house and thereupon, he lodged the instant case at the police
station. He further stated that after 4 — 5 months, the police recovered his daughter
and thereupon, when he went to the police station he found the prosecutrix and the
accused there. He further stated that after her recovery, the prosecutrix told him that
the accused stating his name to be one Rajib Deka, had taken her away with the
promise of marriage and that later he came to know from the prosecutrix that the
accused was from another caste / religion and that his actual name was different. This
witness also stated that the prosecutrix told him that the accused had put Vermillion
on her forehead. As part of this evidence, this witness proved the ejahar lodged by
him as Exhibit 1 and his signature thereon as Exhibit 1 (1). PW-1 was duly cross
examined by the learned defence and in his cross examination, he stated that he had
lodged the ejahar in this case a long time after the incident and that the police had not
seized any documents from him regarding the age of the prosecutrix and that he had
also not given to the police any such documents. He further stated in cross

examination that he had heard that there was a love affair between the prosecutrix
and the accused. He stated that at the time of the incident, the age of the prosecutrix
was above 18 years. He also stated in cross examination that he did not state before
the police that the prosecutrix had told him that the accused stating his name to be
one Rajib Deka had taken her away with the promise of marriage and that later he
came to know from the prosecutrix that the accused was from another caste/religion
and that his actual name or different and that the prosecutrix had told him that the

accused had put Vermillion on her forehead.

6. PW-2 is the prosecutrix and in her evidence she stated that the informant is
her father and that she knew the accused person. She further stated that at the time
of the incident she was aged 18 years and that she got introduced to the accused on
mobile phone, whereafter she had a love affair with him and that she had gone with
him. She further stated in her evidence that since the accused belong to another
religion, this was not accepted by her parents and lodged the instant case whereafter,
the police brought her back. She stated that after her recovery, the police had taken
her to the Doctor for medical examination and also taken her before the Magistrate for
recording her statement. She proved the said statement before the Magistrate as
Exhibit 2 and her signature thereon as Exhibit 2 (1). The prosecutrix was duly cross
examined by the learned defence and in her cross examination she stated that she had
love affairs with the accused and pursuant to such love affair, she had voluntarily gone
with him and that, she was not taken forcibly by anyone. She further stated that she
had given statement before the Magistrate at that time out of fear from her co-

villagers.

7. PW-3 is Smt Dulali Devi and she has stated in her deposition that the
informant and the prosecutrix are stated to be her husband and daughter respectively
and that she also knew the accused person. She further stated in her evidence that at
the time of the incident, her daughter — the prosecutrix was aged 18 years. She
further stated that on the day of the incident, the prosecutrix went missing from their
house and later she came to know that she had gone with the accused person
pursuant to her love affair and that when she got caught, her husband lodged the

instant case against the accused. This witness further stated in her evidence that after
her recovery, the prosecutrix told her that she had eloped with the accused person
pursuant to her love affair. This witness was also duly cross examined by the learned
defence and in her cross examination she stated that the prosecutrix had voluntarily

gone with the accused and that she was not forcefully taken away by him.

8. PW-4 is Dr Jaya Prabha Bodo, who has stated in her evidence that on
18.06.2014, while she was working as Sr. M&HO, Morigaon Civil Hospital, Morigaon,
she examined the prosecutrix in connection with Morigaon PS Case No. 75/2014 u/s
366(A) of IPC and the victim was escorted by a WHG Raju Rajkhuwa and she was
examined in the presence of Mrs. Pratibha Patar, female attendant.

Physical appearance:

Height 5 feet 4 inch; weight 58 Kg; teeth — upper 14 lower 14; breast -
well developed; auxillary hair — present; Pubic hair — present; Vaginal hymen —
open, no injury seen.

No external injuries seen on any part of the body.

No injuries seen on vaginal part or genital canal, or perineum.

X- Ray examination — age of the victim is above 19 years.

Opinion :

I. No teeth marks or nail marks or other injury seen over any part of the
body.

II. At the time of the examination the girl was pregnant, with last
menstruation period 23.02.2014.

She proved as Ext. 3- the Medical Report and Ext. 3(1) as her signature
thereon. The pregnancy test report is not mentioned in the medical report. In
cross-examination, she stated that the pregnancy test report is not mentioned in

the medical report.

9. As stated earlier, the accused Md. Saifuddin Islam is facing trial for charge U/s
366(A) IPC pertaining to kidnapping of a minor girl to force her into illicit intercourse;
Section 4 of the POCSO Act pertaining to penetrative sexual assault upon a child below

18 years and Section 419 pertaining to cheating by impersonation.
10. Upon perusing, analyzing and appreciating the prosecution evidence, I find
inconsistency in the evidence of PW-1-informant and the father of the prosecutrix
regarding the age of his daughter/victim who was stated to be 16 years at the time of
incident, but in cross-examination, he stated that the prosecutrix was above 18 years
on the date of incident. The testimony of PW-1 have some implications against the
accused since he stated that after recovery of his daughter, he was told by her that
she was taken away by the accused stating his name to be one Rajib Deka with a
promise of marriage and that later he was found to be the present accused. However,
the testimony of prosecutrix as PW-2 and her mother as PW-3 takes a different
direction. The prosecutrix in her evidence has stated her age to be 18 years at the
time of incident and she has clearly stated that she had love affair with the accused,
but since he belonged to another religion he was not accepted by her parents and they
lodged the case against the accused. In cross-examination, she has stated that she
had love affair with the accused and pursuant to such love affair, she had voluntarily
eloped with the accused and that she was not forcefully taken by anyone. PW-3 in her
evidence has stated that the prosecutrix was aged 18 years at the time of incident and
she has also stated about prosecutrix voluntarily eloping with the accused pursuant to
love affair and that she was not forcefully taken away. The testimonies of PW-2 and
PW-3 who is the prosecutrix and her mother respectively did not state anything about

the prosecutrix being taken away by the accused by impersonation.

11. None of these witnesses i.e. PW-1, PW-2 & PW-3 have stated about
commission of any sexual assault upon prosecutrix by the accused. However, in the
evidence of PW-4, the M.O. has stated that there is finding regarding pregnancy with
last menstruation period on 23.02.2014. The prosecutrix had a medical examination on
18.06.2014. At the same time there is no medical evidence or otherwise throwing
lights on as to whether the accused was responsible for pregnancy of the prosecutrix.
As narrated earlier, the prosecutrix herself as alleged victim neither stated in her
evidence regarding pregnancy nor any whisper of sexual assault committed upon her

by the accused.
12. In the context of the aforesaid evidence, I find the same to be grossly
inadequate to come to any finding of guilt of the accused for kidnapping the
prosecutrix to force her into illicit intercourse. The evidence is also grossly inadequate
regarding commission of sexual assault upon the prosecutrix despite the medical
finding regarding pregnancy. In the context of the evidence of prosecutrix as PW-1
and the mother as PW-2, the charge against the accused U/s 419 IPC by way of

cheating by impersonation also falls through.

13. Thus, I find that the prosecution case here in suffers from non-existent
evidence partly and grossly inadequate evidence partly. Consequently, the prosecution
case fails under the principle of benefit of doubt and accused is entitled to be

acquitted.

ORDER
14. On the basis of the evidence and relevant materials on record of the case, the
accused Md. Saifuddin Islam stands acquitted. The accused, if in detention, shall be

set at liberty forthwith, if not wanted in any other case.
15. — His bail bonds and sureties stand discharged.

16. A copy of this judgment and order shall be sent to the learned District
Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with Section 365 of the Cr.PC.

17. Given under my hand and seal on this the 22 day of October, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by me (P. Das)
Sessions Judge Morigaon,

(P. Das)
Sessions Judge
Morigaon, Assam
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witness

1
2
3
4
B
B
1
2
C
D

. PW-1 :- Sri Laveswar Nath

. PW-2 :- Prosecutrix.

. PW-3 :- Smt Dulali Devi.

. PW-4 :- Dr. Jaya Prabha Bodo.

. Defence witness : Nil.
. Prosecution Exhibit :

. Ext.1 :- The ejahar.

. Ext.2 :- The statement U/s 164 Cr.PC.
. Defence witness : Nil.

. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

(P Das)
Sessions Judge, Morigaon
Sessions Case No. 02/2015
22.10.2019:

Accused Md. Saifuddin Islam is present along with

learned defence counsel, Sh. U.C. Roy.

The accused is examined U/s 313 Cr.PC. It is stated

that no defence evidence shall be adduced.

Heard learned PP for the State and the learned

defence counsel for the accused person.

The judgment is pronounced in the open court. On the
basis of the relevant materials and evidence on record, the
accused Md. Saifuddin Islam stands acquitted. The accused, if
in detention, shall be set at liberty forthwith, if not wanted in

any other case.

His bail bonds and sureties stand discharged.

A copy of this judgment and order shall be sent to the
learned District Magistrate Morigaon in compliance with

section 365 Cr.P.C.

The instant case is disposed of on the aforesaid terms.

Sessions Judge
Morigaon, Assam
