Page 1 of 15

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPL. (POCSO) CASE NO. 18 of 2017
Under section 6 of POCSO Act and 294/506 of IPC.
(Arising out of G. R Case No.1436/2017)

State of Assam
—Vs—

(1)Sri Pandav Das
(2)Sri Nirai Das
— Accused persons
Present : Smti. I. Barman, AJS
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State ; Mr. M.CyBaruah, Special Public Prosecutor.
For the accused : Mra.HiP. Sedai, Advocate, Tezpur

Date of Argument: 03-09-2019 &17-09-2019

Date of Judgment... : 30-09-2019

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution*case against accused Pandav Das and Nirai Das, as projected
may, in brief be described thus :

On 15-04-2017 at around 4 p.m. accused Pandav Das luring the
informant’s.4 years old daughter by offering chips (Ring) took her to the jungle at
the backside of Labari ME school and indulged in an indecent act with the little girl
and this indecent act of Pandav Das with the minor girl was witnessed by some
children, who reported the same to the informant. Due to the incident the
informant had undergone depression and thereafter on 21-04-2017 called a mel in
the premises of Labari Hari Mandir but in the meeting accused Nirai Das, the elder
brother of Pandav Das, scolded the villagers with filthy language and also
threatened them for which no mel could take place, whereupon informant lodged
the ejahar on 21-04-2017.

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 1
Page 2 of 15

2. Upon receipt of the FIR from the informant on 21-04-2017, the O/C Dhekiajuli
PS registered a case being Dhekiajuli P.S. Case No. 322/2017 u/s 294/506 IPC r/w
Section 4/6 of POCSO Act and entrusted Gokul Sonowal to initiate the investigation
of the case. In course of investigation, he recorded the statements of the
witnesses, sent the victim child for medical examination, got her statement u/s
164 Cr.P.C. recorded, arrested the accused and on completion of investigation
having found materials submitted charge-sheet against the accused Pandav Das
u/s 4 of POCSO Act and against accused Nirai Das u/s 294/506 of the IPC.

3. On appearance of the accused person before this Court,,after furnishing the
copies of the documents u/s 207 of Cr.P.C. and after hearing both parties, my
learned predecessor, framed charge u/s 6 of POGSO “Act. against the accused
Pandav Das and u/s 294/506 IPC against accused Nirai‘Das and particulars of the
charge on being read over and explained to the accused persons, they pleaded not

guilty and demanded to stand for trial.

4. To substantiate the charge,..prosecution examined as many as 9 (nine)
witnesses. In their statements recorded® u/s 313 Cr.P.C, the accused persons
denied all the allegations levelled\against them and pleaded innocence. Accused

declined to adduce anysevidence.

5. I have heard the arguments of the learned counsel of both sides and

also have gone through*the evidence on record.
6. The point to be determined in this case is as follows—

(i) Whether accused Pandav Das, on 15-04-2017 at about 4 p.m. at
Village Labari behind Labari ME School, under Dhekiajuli PS,
committed penetrative sexual assault on the child victim, aged 4
years, and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 6 of
POCSO Act?

(i) Whether accused Nirai Das on 21-04-2017 at the Namghar of
Village Labari, under Dhekiajuli PS, to the annoyance of the
Villagers, scolded them with obscene language in a meeting and

thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 294 of IPC ?

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 2
Page 3 of 15

(iit) Whether accused Mirai Das on the same date, time and place
committed criminal intimidation by threatening the villagers with
injury on their person and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s 506 of IPC?

7. M. Baruah, the learned Special Public Prosecutor strenuously argued
that the materials on record undoubtedly project a case of penetrative sexual
assault on a minor girl of 4 years. He further submitted that the evidence of the

child victim and other witnesses is enough to convict the accused_persons.

8. Controverting the said argument, Mr. Sedai, the, learned counsel
appearing for the accused, submitted that no explicit reliance.can be placed upon
the evidence of the minor victim who is a tutored one..Moreover, refusal of vaginal
examination and delay of lodging the FIR made the prosecution case doubtful and

as such the accused are entitled to benefit.of doubt.

9. In this case, as per the.FIR (Ext.4), the victim is 4 years old. PW 1
Jayanta Das mentioned the age of the victim as 4/5 years and according to Nikhil
Das (PW 6), the victim was_5/6 ‘years, old at the relevant time. The victim herself
mentioned her age as 4/5 years. The medical report also reflects that the victim
was below 10 years. The age.of the victim is not disputed in this case. The oral
evidence coupled with the medical evidence, it is found that in any case, the

victim is a child below the age of 12 years at the time of incident.

10. We now deal with the issue whether the accused Pandav Das
committed, the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl.
Insthis respect, it is considered proper to outline a sketch of the evidence on

record.

11. Let us first see what the victim, the star witness stated. PW-7 is the
victim. She stated that on the day of incident her neighbour Pandu Kaka had
fingered in her private parts when she was playing in field with others including

one Pritam, as a result she felt pain there. Then she informed her parents.

During cross, she stated that prior to the incident, quarrel took place

between accused Pandav Das and her father. She stated that the incident occurred

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 3
Page 4 of 15

in the afternoon where many children were playing and some persons were
playing chess. Though she once stated that as tutored by her father, she gave
statement before the Magistrate but again she stated that she was not tutored by

her father and deposed in court as stated by her mother.

12. PW-1 Jayanta Das deposed that on 15-04-2017 at around 4 p.m. while
he along with his friends were playing at Labari ME School, he had.seen the
accused Pandav Das taking the victim girl aged about 4/5 years on_his»bicycle to
the field and then offering potato chips took the victim on his. lap..He.had also
seen the accused spitting on his finger and then fingering the‘child’s private parts.
Seeing the incident, when they raised alarm, the accused left the place. On the

very day he informed the matter to the father of the victim.

During cross, he stated that on the day of incident Puja was offered
for Bengali New Year’s day in his shop which continued till 1 p.m. and after Puja
he himself and his maternal uncle entertained the customers with sweets till
evening. He left the shop at 3 p.m..According to him, the field where the incident
took place is not visible for his shopvand he saw Pandav Das with the victim in
front of the house of the informant situated near the field. He stated that on that
day some aged men.weresplaying chess and the victim was sitting near those
persons. He further stated that he had seen the incident from a distance of about
12/13 ft.

13. PW..2 Hari Das deposed that on the day at about 4 p.m. when he
along with his friends were playing at Labari ME school, Pandav Das took the
victim to the corner of the field on his bicycle and offering chips (Ring) took the
victim on his lap. Thereafter, accused spitting on his finger, inserted it into her
private parts. Seeing the incident when they raised alarm, the accused went away
leaving the victim there. Thereafter, they informed the matter to the father of the
victim. During cross, he stated that he and PW 1 going to the house of the
informant, reported him about the incident at around 5 p.m. According to him, in
the field about 20/25 children were playing at the time of incident but no senior

persons were present.

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 4
Page 5 of 15

14, Corroborating the evidence of PW 1 and PW 2, the informant as well
as father of the victim deposing as PW 3 stated that on 15-04-2017 at around 4/5
p.m., when he went to the field of Labari ME School, the children playing in the
field told him that accused Pandav Das offering chips to his daughter took her to
the jungle near the field and attempted to commit misdeed on her. He stated that
PW-1 and PW-2 coming to this house reported to him that accused Pandav Das
committed bad acts with his daughter after having offered her chips while some
children were playing in the field. Regarding the incident, after 2 days, a mel was
convened but in the mel accused Nirai Das scolded the public for holding such mel.
He also stated that victim reported to him that accused Pandav. Das by opening
her pant fingered her private parts. He proved the FIR (Ext.4) filed after one week

of the incident.

During cross-examination, he stated\that he and accused Pandav Das
were working under the same master and they had cordial relation. He admitted
that accused Pandav Das used to play. with the children and also used to offer
potato chips to his children. He further\stated that in the mel accused Nirai Das
alleging that the mel was ‘convened on false allegation, expressed his
unwillingness to concede‘to the*resolution. Then, the local people asked him to file
the ejahar. He further.stated that both the parties settled the matter at the village
mel and it was reduced into writing and was submitted to the police station but
actually he did not concede to the compromise. He denied the suggestion that on
the day of incident, the day of ‘halkhata’, accused Pandav Das asked him to pay
Rs.5,000/- on. which quarrel took place.

15. Medical Officer PW 4 Dr. Tutumoni Handique deposed that on 22-04-
2016, she examined the victim, aged 4 years in connection with Dhekiajuli PS Case
No.327/17 who gave history of sexual assault on 15-04-2016. On examination she
found no injury and age of the child appears to be below 10 years but refused
vaginal examination. She has proved the medical report as Ext.1, medical

requisition as Ext.2, and X-ray report as Ext.3.

16. PW-5 Pardip Talukdar deposed that on the relevant day at about 4
p.m. near a school field he heard hulla regarding allegation of attempting to

commit rape on a victim aged about 5/6 years by accused Pandav Das. Regarding

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 5
Page 6 of 15

the incident a mel was held in the village where he was also present and in the
said mel accused Pandav Das confessed his guilt. During cross, he stated that on
the relevant day hearing hulla he went to the field and saw 15/16 children playing
there but he did not meet the victim in the field. According to him, after about 4/5
days of the incident, a meeting was held in presence of 30/40 persons after
institution of this case but he could not say if any proceeding was maintained in
the meeting. He admitted that before police he did not state that. accused
confessed his guilt at the meeting in his presence, as the meeting was held after
recording his statement. He admitted that as accused Nirai Das rebuked, the public

at the meeting, his name was also mentioned in the FIR.

17. PW 6 Nikhil Das turned hostile. He deposed. that’on the day of the
incident, at about 6 p.m., he heard that accused Panday Das committed misdeed
on the victim by taking her on his lap. For the saidsincident, a meeting was held.
According to him, in the first meeting he*was present but the accused was absent
and in the next meeting he was not present»where the accused was present.
During cross-examination, he stated that he cannot say who were present in the

second meeting.

18. PW-8 Mr. KeSharma, the then learned Judicial Magistrate recorded the
statement of victim, four years old, in presence of her father. He proved the
statement of the victim as Ext.5 and his order dated 24-04-2017 as Ext.6. During

cross, he stated that Ext.5 is silent as to actual date and time of the incident.

19. PW-9 Gokul Sonowal, the Investigating Officer, deposed that he visited
the place of occurrence, prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence vide
Ext.7, recorded the statements of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical
examination, got the statement of victim u/s 164 CrPC recorded, arrested the
accused and on completion of investigation, submitted charge-sheet against the
accused Pandav Das u/s 4 of POCSO Act and accused Nirai Das u/s 294/506 IPC,
vide Ext.8. He also proved the statement made before him by the hostile witness
(PW6).

During cross-examination, he stated that he recorded the statement of

the victim in presence of her mother and one woman police personal in a hotel

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 6
Page 7 of 15

situated near the Out Post, but has not mentioned the same in the case diary. He
also stated that the informant did not produce any document regarding settling of
the dispute in presence of villagers. He also denied about the production of any

document by the informant that due to misunderstanding the case was field.

20. It is discussed above that the child victim is below the age of 12
years. Bearing in mind the above findings as regards the age of the victim, let me,
now turn to the question of alleged offence of penetrative sexual assault.on the
child victim. While considering this as part of the matter, it is worthsnoticing that
it is the testimony of the victim which has brought the allegation, ofsfingering in
her private part by the accused Pandav Das. The victim's (PW 7) evidence shows
that she used to call the accused Pandav Das as “Pandu Kaka” who is her
neighbour. According to her, on the day when she was in the field and was
playing with others, accused had fingered in her.private part, as a result she felt
pain on that part. At that time PW laged‘about 17 years and PW 2 aged about 15
years, along with friends were playing in the field. PW 1 had seen the accused
Pandav Das taking the victim on his bicycle and going towards the field and
offering potato chips, took the victimnon his lap and then he spitting on his finger,
fingered her private parts. They.having seen the incident raised alarm and then
the accused ran away therefrom leaving behind the victim. Thereafter, on the
very day he informed the, matter to the father of the victim. Though defence
confronted that\this. witness did not made the statement of spitting finger and
fingering victim's private part before the investigating Officer but the evidence of
the.victim regarding the fingering in her private parts remains undemolished even
in her ‘cross-examination. PW 1 during cross-examination asserted that he had
seen the incident from a distance of 12/13 ft and during that time some children
were playing near the place of occurrence. Another material witness PW 2 Hari
Das who was playing at that time in the field, also had seen the accused Pandav
Das taking the victim on his bicycle to the corner of the field and offering chips.
Then he had seen the accused Pandav Das taking the victim on his lap and
spitting his fingers and then fingering in the victim’s private parts. Seeing the
incident, when they raised alarm, accused Pandav Das went away by leaving the
victim there. The evidence of PW 1 and PW 2 that they had seen the evidence

and informed the matter to the father of the victim also remained unshaken. PW

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 7
Page 8 of 15

3, the father of the victim also categorically stated that on 15-04-2017, at around
4/5 p.m., when he went to the field of Labari ME School, he had seen the
children playing there and they had told him that accused Pandav Das offering
chips, had taken his daughter to the jungle near the field and attempted to
commit misdeed to her. He also corroborated that PW 1 and PW 2 had reported
to him that accused Pandav Das committed bad acts with his daughter. In the
same tune with the victim, this natural witness also stated that the victim reported
to him that the accused Pandav Das by opening her pant fingered in her private
parts. The victim's father and accused Pandav Das were working under. the same
master and they had visiting terms. PW 6 Nikhil Das is a hearsay witness and
though he turned hostile yet he also stated that on the day.of.incident at around 6
p.m. he heard that accused Pandav Das had committed misdeed on the victim by
taking her on his lap. During cross examination of victim’s father (PW 3), it was
brought on record by defence that accused Pandav.Das who used to play with the
children and often offered potato chips to children and showed affection towards
his children, it is not believable that he would commit any indecent act with the
informant’s daughter. It is true that young children are very sweet and innocent
and many adults do feel like showering their affection on them, for which they
take them on their lapsor hug them or even kiss them. But it is unheard of that
anybody out of such love and affection towards a child would finger her private
part. The only.answer is that such a person must have fingered a child’s private
part for satisfying\his» sexual urges. The act committed by the accused is one of

penetrative sexual assault.

21. The defence counsel urged that the victim is a tutored one. Settled
law. is that evidence of child witness is required to be considered with care and
caution so that possibility of being tutored is ruled out, but cases involving sexual

molestation and assault requires a different approach.

In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare Vs. State of Maharashtra (1997 (5)
SCC 341), Hon’ble Supreme Court held that: (i) A child witness if found
competent to depose to the facts and reliable one, such evidence could be the
basis of conviction. (ii) Even in the absence of oath the evidence of a child witness

can be considered under section 118 of the Evidence Act provided that such

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 8
Page 9 of 15

witness is able to understand the answers thereof. (iii) The evidence of a child
witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of each
case. (iv) The only precaution which the Court should bear in mind while
assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a reliable
one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent witness and there
is no likelihood of being tutored. (v) The decision on the question whether the
child witness has sufficient intelligence primarily rests with the trial Judge who
notices his manners, his apparent possession or lack of intelligence, and. said
Judge may resort to any examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and
intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an oath. (vi) This
precaution is necessary because child witnesses are amenable}to tutoring and
often live in a world of make beliefs. (vii) Though«child witnesses are pliable and
liable to be influenced easily, shaped and moulded, but if‘after careful scrutiny of
their evidence, the Court comes to the conclusion that there is an impress of truth

in it, there is no obstacle in the way of accepting the evidence of a child witness.

22. In the case at hand, in cross-examination though once the victim
stated that she gave statement,before the Magistrate as tutored by father but
again she clearly denied of being,tutored by her father. The victim made the same
version in court whatever she.stated before the Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and
her evidence has been corroborated by PW 1, 2 and her father. Evidence of the
victim is found spontaneous and trustworthy without inviting any suspicion of
being tutored. I find nothing, which would lead to believe that the victim was

tutored'to embellish the version on material point.

23: Another argument of the defence is that due to animosity the case
was ‘lodged falsely. In this respect, during cross examination of victim’s father
defence took the plea that on the day of the incident i.e. the day of “Halkhata’
(the new year’s day of Bengali Calender month), accused Pandav Das asked him
for Rs. 5000/- and regarding that a quarrel took place between him and the
accused and hence he filed a false case. Again, in examination u/s 313 Cr.P.C.
accused Pandav Das took the plea that the informant had to pay him Rs. 5000/-
and when he asked the informant to repay the money, he picked up quarrel and

thereafter filed this false case. Defence examined none to prove the plea. It is

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 9
Page 10 of 15

also not believable that for Rs. 5000/-, a father would set up his minor daughter
of 4/5 years old to such an act such as fingering in private parts on her to vent his
grudge. Except that plea which is not acceptable, there was no animosity between
the parties. In fact, the victim called the accused as “ Pandu kaka”. Nothing on
the record throws any light on any kind of animosity between the victim’s family
and the accused. There is no basis for the minor child to bring a charge of
fingering in her private part against the accused person unless it was true. Again
a father would not malign his daughter’s name by exposing her «as a victim of
sexual assault, unless she was subjected to some sexual assault. by.someone.
Similarly, a child would also not state with spontaneity of a man fingering her
private part unless she underwent the assault, as a child\of such tender age
whose sexual characteristics have not yet fully developed would know about such
an act as that of fingering of private part. The.child being offended by the act of
fingering of her private parts by the accused could. remember and vividly narrate
without faltering, what had actually happened.with her. Further, on the very day,
the victim also informed the matter to,her parents. Therefore, I find nothing why
should a girl depose falsely against=the» accused. To disbelieve her evidence
would tantamount to adding insult,to physical and mental injuries already inflicted
on her. The evidence ofsthe.victim is convincing as it carries quality and adequate
reliability. A clear and dispassionate scrutiny of the evidence of the victim shows
that her evidence.remains undoubted regarding fingering her private part by the
accused and*therefore her evidence cannot be brushed aside. I find nothing to
discredit her evidence. The evidence on record discussed above, well establishes
that the accused Pandav Das fingered the private part of the child below the age
of 12 years.

24. In the case, it is a fact that vaginal examination of the victim girl was
was refused by the parents of the victim as per record. The parents might have
been apprehensive about the child’s state of mind while letting her to be
examined by the doctor or they might not have thought it necessary to get the
child examined as it was a case of fingering of private part. The parents being
common village men would not have understood the importance of getting their
victim child examined medically after the incident. Be that what may, the absence

of medical evidence cannot be a ground to disbelieve the otherwise creditworthy

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 10
Page 11 of 15

evidence of the victim child who categorically stated about the offending act of

accused Pandav Das fingering her private part.

25. Learned defence counsel also had raised the point that prosecution
case would fail for the delay in lodging the FIR and placed reliance on the ruling
reported in (2013) 3 SCC 791 (Rajesh Patel Vs. State of Jharkhand). As
regards the delay in lodging the FIR is concerned, it is an admitted position that
FIR is lodged after 6 days of the incident. The place of occurrence now.must be
visualized. It is in a village. It is a normal practice that village folk do not«come out
wide open about cases of sexual assault. In the instant case the victim is a girl of
tender age. The victim’s sex, age and the offence itself. are factors which made
the parent/informant father to convene a ‘mel’ and not\to“report about the
incident to the police. From the evidence of PW 3, PW._5:and hostile witness PW 6,
it is forthcoming that a ‘mel’ had taken place ‘at the village. Though there are
discrepancies as regards the extra — judicial confession of guilt by the accused
Pandav Das at the ‘mel’ but the three witnesses testified that a ‘mel’ had in fact
taken place in the matter of the allegation of accused Pandav Das committing
misdeed on the victim child. Thus, the firm evidence of PW 3, PW 5 and PW 6 to
the fact of holding a ‘mel\in*the.disputed matter aforementioned lends support to
the fact that the informant, waited for the ‘result’ of the ‘mel’ and only when no
solution could be attained; he approached the police. This delay cannot be said to
be one made purposefully. The FIR reveals that knowing the incident, the victim’s
father depressed and thereafter he called a ‘mel’ on 21-04-2017 and thereafter

lodged the FIR on the same day.

26. In this respect the Apex Court in the case of Md. Ali Vs. State of
Uttar Pradesh reported in (2015) 7 SCC 7 SCC 272, had been held as follows:

“It is apt to mention here that in rape cases the delay in filing
the FIR by the prosecutrix or by the parents in all
circumstances is not of significance. The authorities of this
Court have granted adequate protection/allowance in that
aspect regard being had to the trauma suffered, the agony
and anguish that creates the turbulence in the mind of the

victim, to muster the courage to expose oneself in a

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 11
Page 12 of 15

conservative social milieu. Sometimes the fear of social sigma
and on occasions the availability of medical treatment to gain
normally and above all the psychological inner strength to

undertake such a legal battle.”

27. In the facts of this case as discussed above, I am of the considered
view that in offence of this sort which involves reputation of a daughter of very
tender age, sometime is often taken by guardians to step forward _to“lodge the
FIR and this cannot be a ground to disbelieve them. In the present case, delay is
well explained and such delay cannot defeat the prosecution.case of committing
the act of fingering of victim’s private parts by accused,Pandav Das and same is

not fatal to the prosecution case.

28. Now, let us see whether fingering «in private parts of a child amounts

to penetrative sexual assault.
Section 3 of the act defines penetrative sexual assault as follows:

“3. Penetrative,sexuah assault. - A peson is said to comit

‘penetrative sexual asault' if -

(a) he penetrates. his penis to any extent, into the vagina, mouth,
urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other

person ; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not
being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the

Child.to‘do so with him or any other person ; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the child or

makes the child to do so with him or any other person ; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the

child or makes the child to do so to such person or any other person.”

29. From the evaluation of the prosecution material as discussed above, it

is abundantly clear that the evidence brought on record proves beyond all

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 12
Page 13 of 15

reasonable doubt that accused Pandav Das has fingered the private parts of the
victim girl and it attracts the ingredients of penetrative sexual assault defined in
section 3(b) of POCSO Act and the child being below the age of 12 years, it
comes within the purview of section 5 (m) of POCSO Act for committing the
offence of aggravated penetrative sexual assault punishable u/s 6 of the POCSO
Act. Accused Pandav Das is held guilty for the offence punishable u/s 6 of
POCSO Act and convicted him accordingly.

30. Evidence is silent in respect of accused Nirai Das scolding.the.villagers
in obscene language to the annoyance of the public in the meeting or he having
criminally intimidated the public. There is no evidence as to what.words accused
Nirai Das used to rebuke the villagers or in what manner he threatened the
public. In fact there is no firm evidence as to.his presence at the village ‘mel’.
Hence the charge brought about by prosecution ‘against accused Nirai Das u/s
294/506 of the IPC fails. Accordingly, accused Nirai Das is acquitted from the
said charge and set him at liberty forthwith. His bail bond shall remain in force

till next six months.

31. I have heard the accused Pandav Das on the point of sentence. His
statement is recordedswhere he stated that he is the only bread earner of his
family consisting of his old mother, wife and one year old son and their lives
would be ruinedsif he is sentenced to imprisonment, hence, prayed for taking a
lenient views, On thesother hand, the learned Special Public Prosecutor submitted

that the crime being heinous, the accused should not be dealt with leniency.

32. I gave my anxious consideration on the aspect of quantum of
sentence. Section 6 of POCSO Act prescribes punishment for a term which shall
not be less than 10 years but which may extend to life and shall also be liable to

fine.

33. In the instant case, the offence committed is penetrative sexual
assault against a child of 5/6 years. The 5/6 years old girl was supposed to
spend time in cheerfulness, with her dignity. The girl with afflux of time, would
grow with memories of this painful experience. Being a girl of 5/6 years, no

sexual character is developed on her. She understood nothing what the accused

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 13
Page 14 of 15

was doing with her. The accused being a man of 33 years and father of child
was expected to protect her from abuse but instead he himself abused her
childhood. He committed a serious offence against a minor. Considering the
submission of the accused, I am of the considered opinion that the minimum
punishment provided by law for the offence u/s 6 of POCSO Act will meet the

ends of justice.

34. Considering all aspects, I sentence the convict Pandav Das to.undergo
Rigorous Imprisonment for 10 years and also to pay a fine of Rsv 5,000/- in
default to undergo Simple Imprisonment for another 2 months forsthe offence
punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act.

35. The period of detention already undergone,by the accused shall be set
off against the terms of imprisonment as per.provision of section 428 of Cr.P.C.

His bail bond stands cancelled and surety be discharged.

36. Convict/accused convict Pandav Das be sent to Central Jail, Sonitpur,

Tezpur to serve the sentence.

37. Case is recommended for compensation of the victim as per provision
of Section 357 A of CrvP.Caby District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

38. Let a free copy.of the Judgment be furnished to the convict.

39. Also senda copy of the Judgment to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur,
Tezpur as_per provision of section 365 Cr.P.C. and a copy to the District Legal
ServicesAuthority, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

40. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 30" day of
September, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.
(I.Barman)

Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur

 

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 14
Page 15 of 15

APPENDIX
Prosecution witnesses.
1. PWil1 : Sri Jayanta Das,
2. PW2 : Sri Hari Das
3. PW3 : father of the victim
4. PW4 : Dr. Tutumoni Handique, M.O.
5. PW5 : Sri Pradip Talukdar,
6. PW6 : Sri Nikhil Das
7. PW7 : Victim
8. PW8 : Mr. K.Sharma,
9. PW9 : Sri Gokul Sonowal, 1.0.
Exhibits.
Ext. 1 Medical report
Ext. 2 requisition
Ext. 3 X-ray report.
Ext. 4 FIR
Ext. 5 Victim’s statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext. 6 Order. dated 24-04-2017
Ext. 7 sketch*map
Ext. 8 Charge sheet.
Ext. 9 Case diary of Dhekiajuli PS case No.322/17
Ext. 9(1) ; statement of witness Nikhil Das u/s 161 Cr.P.C.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Spl (POCSO) Case No .18 of 2017 Page 15
