Page 1 of 16

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the state

Counsel for Accused

68 OF 2017

(Under Section 8 of the POCSO
Act, arising out of G.R. Case No.
4795/17)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Bikash Basfor
Son of Jugnu Basfor,
Resident of Horijan Colony,
Police Station — Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
29/03/2018
11/06/2018 & 22/06/2018,

22/06/2018.

04/07/2018

05/07/2018

Mr. M.Ch. Baruah,
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Md. Hussain, Advocate.
Page 2 of 16

JUDGMENT
1. In this case accused Sri Bikash Basfor is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012.
2. The factual matrix according to the FIR, in brief, is that on or

about 4 p.m. of 26-11-2017 taking advantage of absence of any persons
accused trespassed into the house of the informant and disrobed and
torn the clothes of informant’s grand-daughter. While she raised alarm
local people arrived there then accused fled away. Hence, this
prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by the informant Smti Madhuri
Basfor before the Tezpur Police station on 26-11-2017.

3. On being receipt the ejahar, O/C Tezpur Police Station registered
a case being Tezpur P.S. Case No. 2420/17 under section 8 of the
POCSO Act. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C Tezpur
Police Station sent up the case for trial against the accused Sri Bikash
Basfor u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, framed charge under section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 against
the accused Sri Bikash Basfor and particulars of the charge was read
over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not guilty and claims
to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 6
(six) numbers of witnesses which includes the informant, victim, other
material witnesses and the Investigating Officer and Judicial Magistrate.
6. After completion of prosecution evidence accused is examined
u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and
evidence appears against the accused are put before him for
explanation where he denied the evidence and allegation and declined
to give defence evidence.

7. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels
of both sides.

 
Page 3 of 16

8. The point for decision in this case is that:
1. Whether on 26-11-2017, at about 4 p.m. at Horijon Colony

under Tezpur Police station, accused committed sexual
assault on Miss X (aged about 15 years) and thereby
committed an offence punishable u/s 8 of the POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.
9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.

10. PW- 1 Smt. Madhuri Basfor stated that she Knows the accused
Bikas Basfor. Victim is her granddaughter. The incident took place
about three months ago at about 4 p.m. At the relevant time her age
was about 15 years. At the relevant time her victim granddaughter was
at home alone and she was moping the house. Accused entered into the
house and pulled her granddaughter’s hair and torn her clothes from the
chest with intent to commit rape on her. During that time she was
wearing blue coloured sporting. Her granddaughter becomes senseless.
Local people poured water on her head and mouth and then she
regained her senses. During that time local people came to apprehend
the accused but he fled away. After regaining her sense victim reported
her vividly about the incident. Thereafter, she lodged ejahar before the
police station where she put thumb impression. The ejahar was written
by a scribe as per her instruction. Then her granddaughter was taken to
Civil hospital for medical examination. Thereafter she was sent to court

for recording her statement.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions, the evidence as to at the relevant time victim
was alone in their house, she was moping the house, accused
trespassed into the house, pulled the victim’s hair and torn her clothes
from the chest with intent to commit rape on her has remained

unchallenged.

11. PW-2 Smt. Koili Basfor, mother of the victim stated that accused is

the husband of her cousin sister. The incident took place about 3/ 4
Page 4 of 16

months ago at about 4 p.m. At the relevant time her daughter’s age was
about 15 years. At the relevant time she was not at home. Her victim
daughter was at home alone. After the incident, she has just arrived
from her works. She saw her victim daughter was lying senseless. Then
local people poured water upon her and she gained sense. She saw her
clothes was found torn. After regaining her sense victim reported her
that accused entered into their house while she was mopping, accused
assaulted her by tearing her clothes and she was dragged by accused
by holding her hair with intent to commit rape. Accused has also
touched her breast. During investigation police seized the torn blue
coloured sporting which was put by the victim at the relevant point of
time. Ext. 1 is the said torn blue coloured sporting where she put
thumb impression. The said seized torn sporting is seen in the court
today. Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions, the evidence as to at the relevant time her
victim daughter was alone in their house, after the incident she had just
arrived from her works, saw her victim daughter was lying senseless,
local people poured water upon her and she gained sense, saw her
clothes was found torn, after regaining her sense victim reported her
that accused entered into their house while she was mopping, accused
assaulted her by tearing her clothes and she was dragged by accused
by holding her hair with intent to commit rape has remained

unchallenged.

12. PW-3 Smt. Bijuli Basfor stated that accused is the husband of her
own sister. Victim is also the daughter of her other sister. The incident
took place about 3/ 4 months ago at about 4 p.m. On hearing hulla at
their harijan Kolony she immediately rushed to the house of victim and
saw the victim in senseless condition and her clothes were torn out.
Then local people poured water upon her and she regained her sense.
After regaining her sense victim reported her that accused Bikash
entered into her home while she was alone, accused assaulted her by

tearing her clothes, she was dragged by accused by holding her hair

 
Page 5 of 16

with attempt to commit misdeed. Accused has also touched her breast.

Then she becomes senseless.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions, the evidence as to at the relevant time on
hearing hulla she rushed to the house of the victim, saw the victim in
senseless condition, her clothe was torn, local people poured water
upon her, thereafter she gained her sense, victim reported her that
accused entered into her house while she was alone, assaulted her by
tearing her clothes and she was dragged by the accused holding her

hair and attempted to commit misdeed has remained unchallenged.

13. PW-4 the victim Miss X, stated before the court that at the
relevant time she was prepared meal after grooming their house. In the
mean time Bikash trespassed into their house, holding her hair dragged
her. He torn her blue coloured sporting then she became senseless.
Thereafter local people poured water on her and she regained her
sense. She informed the matter to her mother and grandmother. Her
grandmother took her to the police station and her grandmother filed
the case against the accused. Police recorded her statement and she
was medically examined. She has also given statement before the
learned Magistrate where she put thumb impression.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions, the evidence as to at the relevant time she
was prepared meal after grooming their house, in the mean time Bikash
trespassed into their house, holding her hair dragged her, torn her blue
coloured sporting then she became senseless, thereafter local people
poured water on her and she regained her sense, she informed the
matter to her mother and grandmother, her grandmother took her to
the police station and her grandmother filed the case against the
accused has remained unchallenged.

14, PW- 5 Sri Upen Bordoloi, the Investigating Officer of this case,
stated that on 26-11-2017 he was posted as Attached Officer at Tezpur

Police station. On that day, one Madhuri Basfor filed an ejahar before

 
Page 6 of 16

the police station. In the said ejahar Madhuri Basfor put thumb
impression. Ext. 2 is the ejahar and Ext. 2(1) is the signature of the then
O/C Tezpur PS Abdul Momin. On being receipt the said ejahar O/C of
Tezpur PS registered a case vide Tezpur PS Case No. 2420/17 u/s 8 of
POCSO Act and endorsed him to investigate the Case. Thereafter, he
has visited the place of occurrence and prepared sketch map. Ext. 3 is
the sketch map and Ext. 3(1) is his signature. He has also recorded the
statement of victim, complainant and other witnesses. He has also
arrested the accused and forwarded him to the court. Thereafter, he
has sent the victim to KCH for medical examination and also sent the
victim to the learned Magistrate to record her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
He has also seized one old blue colour sporting from the victim. Ext. 1 is
the siezurelist and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. During investigation he has
also collected one school certificate of Tezpur Asomiya Girls’ ME School.
In the said certificate, the date of birth of the victim Miss X is
mentioned as 03-01-2004 according to Admission Register. After
collecting the medical report and after completion of investigation, he
has filed charge sheet against the accused Bikash Basfor u/s 8 of
POCSO Act. Ext. 4 is the chargesheet and Ext. 4(1) is his signature.

15. PW-6 Miss Juhi Gogoi, stated that on 29-11-2017 she was posted
at Tezpur as 1° class Judicial Magistrate and on that day in reference to
Special POCSO Case No. 68/17 u/s 8 of POCSO Act, she has examined
one witness i.e. the victim, D/O late Amit Basfor, resident of village
Horijan Colony, Tezpur in her court chamber. The witness was identified
by WHG Madhumita Katoki. The victim made statement voluntarily in
presence of her grand mother Madhuri Basfor. After recording her
statement she has read over the contents of the statement and on her
acceptance she put her thumb impression thereon. Ext. 5 is the
statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C and Ext. 5(1) is her
Signature. Ext. 6 is her order dated 29-11-2017 and Ext. 6 (1) is her

signature.

 
Page 7 of 16

16. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence
plea is of total denial while his statement is recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

17. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly,
there is only one eye witness i.e. the victim in this case. Secondly,
there is vast discrepancy in between the prosecution witnesses such as,
according to FIR the incident took place at about 4 p.m. of 26-11-2017.
On the other hand, the victim could not be able to say the time of
incident. Thirdly, there is also many contradictions among the
statement of prosecution witnesses. Fourthly, there is no corroboration
among the statement of witnesses. Fifthly, according to the I.0. he
recorded the statement of the victim while he was in duty in uniform
which is violative of section 24(2) of POCSO Act. Lastly, the statement
of the victim made u/s 164 cR.P.C. is not corroborated with the

statement made before the court.

18. On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur,
Tezpur submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond
all shadow of doubt, as such required to be convicted under the said
section of law. Learned Special Public Prosecutor also submitted that in
fact there is no enmity in between the accused and the complainant to
file a false case. Even if there is any strange relation between the
parties, it would not be expected from the complainant to involve her
own minor granddaughter in such a hatred case.

19. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the learned
counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as

follows.

20. After going through the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses, it is
seen except the victim, there is no other eye witness to the occurrence.
But immediately after the incident PW 1, the grandmother of the victim
came to know that accused entering into their house, pulled her
granddaughter’s hair, torn her clothes from chest with intent to commit

rape, thereafter, her granddaughter became senseless, local people

 
Page 8 of 16

came and poured water upon her, when she regained her sense then
she reported to her grandmother vividly about the incident. Mother of
the victim PW 2 also stated that when she arrived at home from her
works she saw victim was lying in senseless condition, saw her clothes
was found torn, after regaining her sense, her victim daughter reported
her that accused entered into their house while she was mopping,
accused assaulted her by tearing her clothes and she was dragged by
accused by holding her hair with intent to commit rape. PW 3 has also
supported the aforesaid statement of PW 1 and 2. Victim also stated
that after grooming their house she was alone in their house cooking
meal. Accused entered into their house, holding her hair and dragged
her. The accused also torn her blue coloured sporting. During that time
she became senseless. Thereafter, she regained her senses and
informed about the incident to her grandmother and her mother. During
investigation, police seized the said blue coloured sporting vide
seizurelist Ext. 1 and Ext. 1(1) is her signature. During investigation I.O.
PW 5 has also collected one birth certificate of victim from Tezpur
Asomiya Girls’ ME school. In the said certificate, the date of birth of
victim is mentioned as 03-01-2004 according to Admission Register.
Under such circumstances, the statement of victim cannot be discarded

outright merely on the ground that there is no other eye witness.

21. Learned counsel for the accused argued that the victim is a
minor girl and changed her version in different times, before the police,
before the Magistrate and even in the Court as such, her statement

cannot be considered to convict the accused.

22. Here in the present case, as details discussed herein before, the
victim stated that at the relevant time while she was alone in their
house after grooming floor she was cooking their meal. During that time
accused trespassed into their house, hold her hair, dragged her, he also
torn her blue coloured sporting put by her then she became senseless.
After pouring water by local people victim regained her sense and

immediately she reported the matter to her grandmother and her

 
Page 9 of 16

mother, thereafter she was taken to police station by her grand-mother
and her grandmother filed this case. Besides that, grand-mother PW 1
also stated that at the relevant time victim was at home alone and she
was moping the house. Accused entered into the house and pulled her
granddaughter’s hair and torn her clothes from the chest with intent to
commit rape on her. During that time she was wearing blue coloured
sporting. Her granddaughter becomes senseless. Local people poured
water on her head and mouth and then she regained her senses. During
that time local people came to apprehend the accused but he fled away.
Therefore, PW 1 also seen the incidence took place immediately after

the main incident.

Besides, it appears that the statement of the victim is
corroborated with the statement made before the police and also before
the learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Though she has been exposed to
long cross-examination but her evidence as to while she was cooking
meal after grooming their house, accused trespass into their house,
dragged her by holding her hair, torn her blue coloured sporting, then
she became fainted, when local people poured water she regained her
sense and immediately, she reported the matter to her grandmother

and her mother has remained unchallenged.

23. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the victim since
not been medically examined to know her age therefore, the certificate
as alleged to be seized by I.O. the Ext. 1 cannot be relied on as because

Ext. 1 was not proved by the Officer who issued it.

24. Inthe case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State, represented
by the Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD) No.98 of 2015, it
was held that it is true that primary evidence to prove the date of birth
of the individual may be preferably the birth certificate. But, it cannot be
said that in absence of birth certificate, the date of birth cannot be
proved. When the age of the individual is not disputed, the question of
proving the same does not arise at all. It is the settled law that a fact in

issue or any relevant fact or any fact relevant to the issue, which is

 
Page 10 of 16

disputed by the adverse party alone, needs proof. If it is not disputed,

there is no need to lead any evidence in proof of the said admitted fact.

25. In this case, the victim, her grandmother and her mother
categorically stated that at the relevant time she was about 15 years
from the very beginning of the case, at the time of commission of
offence, besides during cross-examination, the same has not been
disputed at all by the accused side. Thus, the evidence of PWs 1, 2 and

4 in respect of age of the victim remains unchallenged.

26. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the
material particulars with regard to the incident that on the day of
incident, while she was cooking meal after grooming their house, during
that time accused trespassed into their house, dragged her by holding
her hair, torn her blue coloured sporting with attempt to commit rape,
during that time she became senseless, when local people poured water
she regained her sense and thereafter, she informed the matter to her
grandmother PW 1 and her mother PW 2. PW 1 and PW 2 also stated
the aforesaid incident before the court. Victim also made such statement
before the I.0. while her statement was recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C. and
she has also made such statement before the learned Magistrate when
her statement was recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Though the victim has been
vigorously cross-examined but the aforesaid evidence as stated by the
victim are remained unchallenged. There is nothing in the evidence of
the aforesaid PWs that accused had any enmity or quarrel with the
complainant to file the case falsely against the accused. Therefore,

defence of false allegation is not made out.

27. |The Hon’ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan Vs. Babu
Muna (2013) 4 SCC 206, has observed as under :-

“9. We do not have any slightest hesitation in accepting the
broad submission of Mr. Jain that the conviction be based on the sole
testimony of the prosecutrix, it found to be worthy of credence and

reliable and for that no corroboration is required. It has often been said

 
Page 11 of 16

that oral testimony can be clarified into three categories, namely, (i)
wholly reliable, (ii) whole unreliable and (iii) neither wholly reliable nor
wholly unreliable. In case of wholly reliable testimony of single witness,
the conviction can be found without corroboration. This principle applies
with greater in terms in case the nature of offence is such that it is
committed in seclusion. In case prosecution is based on wholly
unreliable testimony of single witness but the court has no option to

acquit the accused.”

28. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of
accused is not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered
much as prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of
all reasonable doubts. However, in a case under POCSO Act, the
situation is not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to refer to the
provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

29.  U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain
offences and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person
has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the

case may be, unless the contrary is proved.

30. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special
Court shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state
of the accused where culpable mental state is required on the part of
the accused. Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any
prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume

that existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the

 
Page 12 of 16

accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect
to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved
only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt
and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of

probabilities.

31. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be
recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness or not? Such issue was
dealt by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of U.P.,
(2008) 16 SCC, which are reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On the
contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may
testify — all persons shall be competent to testify unless the Court
considers that they are prevented from understanding the questions put
to them, or from giving rational answers to those questions, by tender
years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind, or any other
cause of the same kind.”

32. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has
intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational answers
thereto. The evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected
per se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with
close scrutiny and only on being convinced about the quality thereof and

reliability can record conviction, based thereon.

33. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra,
(1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that a child witness if found competent
to depose to the facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis
of conviction. In other words, even in the absence of oath the evidence
of a child witness can be considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act
provided that such witness is able to understand the questions and able
to give rational answer thereof. The evidence of a child witness and

credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of each case.

 
Page 13 of 16

The only precaution which the Court should bear in mind while
assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a
reliable one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent

witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored.

34. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs —
State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on
the question whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence
primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his manners, his
apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and the said Judge may
resort to any examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and

intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an oath.

35. In the present case, the victim was examined on oath because
on the day of recording her statement she was 15 years of age. Apart
from that, other witnesses i.e. PW 1 and PW 2 all were supported the

evidence of victim PW 4.

Here in the present case as discussed above, while the victim
was cooking meal after grooming their house, accused trespassed into
their house, dragged her by holding her hair, torn her blue coloured
sporting with intent to commit rape. Just immediately after the incident,
PW 1 arrived there. She has also noticed the scenery of just after the
incident and it is also in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses that
after regaining her sense she reported the matter to her grandmother
PW 1 and her mother PW 2. The I.0. has also seized the torn blue
coloured sporting put by victim at the relevant time, in presence of
witnesses. That has been also produced before the court as Material
Exhibit.

36. On appreciation of the evidence given by the victim, her
grandmother PW 1, her mother PW 2 and other independent witnesses
PW 3, it comes to the conclusion that at the relevant time accused
attempted to commit sexual assault to the victim. Therefore, I think that

the prosecution has failed to prove the ingredients of section 8 of the

 
Page 14 of 16

POCSO Act, but prosecution has able to prove that at the relevant time
accused attempted to commit sexual assault to the victim. Therefore,
accused Sri Bikash Basfor held to be guilty for the offence of attempt to
commit sexual assault and therefore convicted him u/s 18 of the POCSO
Act.

37. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he praying
for leniency stating that he has his wife, children and he is the only
bread earner of his family and he has been in custody since 24-01-2018,
hence, praying for leniency.

38. I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well as learned
Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur.

39. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court
should strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the
crime and mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case,
so far as the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor girl was
sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only to the body
but also to the mind of not only to the victim but that of entire family
members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the accused
was hardly 22 years of age at the time of the incident. It is not brought
to the notice of this Court that before this incident, the accused had
committed any other offence. There is likelihood of his reformation, but
the statute u/s.18 of POCSO Act a punishment for any description
provided for the offence, for a term which may extend to one-half of the
imprisonment for life or, as the case may be, one-half of the longest
term of imprisonment provided for that offence or with fine or with
both.

ORDER

40. I convict the accused Sri Bikash Basfor u/s. 18 of POCSO Act and

sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 6 months and to pay a fine

 
Page 15 of 16

of Rs. 1000/- (Rupees One thousand only) in default Rigorous
Imprisonment for 15 (fifteen days).

It appears from the record that the accused has been in custody
since 24-01-2018.

The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from

the period of imprisonment, imposed on him.

41. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement
of witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an
amount of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees twenty thousand) only is awarded as
compensation. The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority,
Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to give the compensation to the mother of

the victim after proper enquiry.

42. Acopy of this Judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost
and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur,
as per provisions of law.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 5" day
of July, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR:: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
Prosecution Witness
No.1
Prosecution Witness
No.2
Prosecution Witness
No.3
Prosecution Witness
No.4
Prosecution Witness
No.5
Prosecution Witness
No.6

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4
Exhibit 5
Exhibit 6

Page 16 of 16

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

" Sri Madhuri Basfor, complainant
= Smt. Koili Basfor.

‘- Smt. Bijuli Basfor,

= Victim

ie Sri Upen Bordoloi, I.O.

- Miss J. Gogoi, Judl Magistrate,
1* calss, Tezpur.

EXHIBITS.

< Seizurelist

- Ejahar

= sketch map

- Seizurelist

oe 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
a Order dated 29-11-2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
