Page | of 9

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE DARRANG,MANGALDAI.

Spl.(POCSO) Case No.1 of 2017
(U/S :376(2)(i) I.BC. R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act).

State
Versus

Mozahar Ali @ Roon

S/O: Md. Nurul Islam

Vill: Muslimghopa

PS: Sipajhar,Dist-Darrang

-Accused.

PRESENT: Sri P.Saikia,A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge.
Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPERANCE:

For the Prosecution : Sri PRSarma, P.P.,Mangaldai
AND

For the accused : Mirja Gias,Advocate.

Evidence recorded on :12/05/17, 28/07/17,04/09/17,24/10/17
14/11/2017.

Argument heard on: 07/12/2017

Judgment delivered on: 19/12/2017.
Page 2 of 9

UDGMENT.

1. The prosecution case, in a nut shell is that on 30/07/14 the informant
Md. Astab Ali lodged an FIR with the Sipajhar Police Station stating
amongst other that on 30/07/2014 at around 12 p.m. the accused
Harun alias Roon induced his victim daughter(herein after referred to as
victim withhelding her real names) to see T.V. In his room at that time
committed rape on her. When the victim cried for help then his wife
hearing her cry came to the house of the accused. She saw the accused
was grabbing his daughter. On seeing her the accused fled away and his
victim daugher narrated about the incident of committing rape on her
daughter by the accused Harun alias Roon Ali.

2. Having received the FIR O/C, Sipajhar P.S. registered a case vide
Sipajhar PS case No.420/14 U/S 376(1) IPC read with Section 6 of POCSO
Act and took up of the investigation by him. During the course of
investigation the 1.0. visited the place of occurrence, recorded the
statement of the witnesses U/S 161 Cr.P.C. , sent the victim for medical
examination. The 1.0. also got her statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
and also procured medical examination report and drew sketch map of
the place of occurrence. On conclusion of the investigation the accused
was charge sheeted U/S 376(2)(i)IPC read with Section 6 of the POCSO
Act to face trial.

3. The learned Additional C.J.M., Darrang, Mangaldai took cognizance of the
offence and having found the offence U/S 376(2) IPC read with Section
6 of POCSO Act exclusively triable by the Cvourt of Sessions committed
the case to this court of Sessions U/S 209 Cr.P.C. after ensuring the
presence of the accused.

4. On commitment of the case with all relevant papers and upon perusal
of Police document U/S 173 Cr.P.C. along with the entire materials on
record my learned predecessor in Office having found prima facie
Page 3 of 9

material framed charge against the accused Mozahar Ali alias Roon U/S
376(2)(i) of IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act and the same on being
read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed for trial.

. In order to butress the charges the prosecution has examined as many
as 6 witnesses including the informant, victim and the M.O. Of the case.
The prosecution has also relied on some documents brought on record
as exhibits.

. On closure of the prosecution evidence the accused was examined U/S
313 Cr.P.C.. He has taken a plea of complete denial and declined to
adduce evidence for his defence.

. Situated thus, the point for determination in the present case at hand is
set up and framed as follows:

(i)Whether the accused on 30/07/14 at 12 am. at
Muslimghopa(Hajichuba) under Sipajhar PS forcefully committed rape on
Miss Parbin Sultana aged about 8 years daughter of complainant Md.
Astab Ali as a result she sustained injury on her private part, as alleged
U/S 376(2)(i) I.B.C. R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act ?

. | have heard argument advanced by the learned counsel of both the
sides and also have evaluated evidence on record against the afore

charge in its entirety.

DISCUSSION, DECISOON AND REASONS THEREOF

 

. PW1 Md.Astaf Ali is the first informant of the case. He has testified to the

effect that the accused is known to him and the victim is his daughter
who is presently 11 years old. At the time of the incident his daughter
was 7 years old. On 30/07/12 at 12 noon on a Wednesday the accused
10.

a

12.

Page 4 of 9

had called his victim daughter to watch T.V. His daughter went there.
Accused removed her half pent and committed sexual intercourse with
his her. When her victim daughter raised alarm his wife came searching
for his daughter and inside the house of the accused found the accused
holding his daughter with both hands. Seeing his wife the accused fled
away by the back side door. He was informed about the incident and
reached at 2 p.m. from his work. His wife narrated the fact to him and
on the basis of which he lodged the FIR. Ext.1 is the FIR, wherein
ext.1(1) is his signature.

In cross examination, he has revealed that he was not present at his
home when the incident occured. His wife narrated him about the
incident. On the next day of the incident he lodged the FIR.

PW2 is Moinul Hoque. He has stated in his chief examination that he did
not witness the incident. Therefore, he does not know about the

incident. His cross examination is declined.

PW3 Manika Begum is the mother of the victim. It is her evidence that
about two years ago at about 12.00 noon she was at her home and her
daughter went to watch T.V. in the home of the accused which is
situated adjacent to her house. At that time she heard hue and cry of
her daughter. On hearing her cry she went to the house of the accused
and she saw that the accused by catching hold of the hands of her
daughter shook her for which he cried and seeing this incident she
Snatched away her daughter from the custody of the accused and
brought her to her house.

13.After declaring her as hostile at this stage she has divulged the hostile

part as stated by the prosecution was not stated by her before the
Police U/S 161 Cr.P.C.
Page 5 of 9

14.In cross examination, she has stated that the T.V. Room in the house of

15.

the accused where her daughter was watching TV is in the west of the
other room belonging to the accused person. Both the rooms are
intervened only by one door. When she proceeded to the house of the
accused at that time the doors of the house were opened. After crossing
the first room she directly went to the room where her daughter was
watching T.V. When she proceeded to the house of the accused she saw
two other persons who were having tea in the first room in the house of
the accused and brother of the accused was working in front of the
room. She has also stated that she had not stated before the Police as
recorded U/S 161 Cr.P.C. Her daughter did not tell her regarding
commission of rape by the accused. On the next day when she asked
her daughter she told her daughter that the accused in order to scare
her in playful manner shook her body and out of fear she screamed
loudly. Except this no incident occured to her daughter.

PW4 is the victim. Her testimony does not support the material version
of the prosecution. She has stated to the effect that about two years ago
one day at about 12 noon she was playing alone in front of her
courtyard of her house. Then she decided to go to the house of the
accused to watch T.V. serial ‘’ Bharaghar’ . At that time the mother and
sister were also present along with the accused. While she was watching
T.V. with the mother and sister of the accused at that time the accused
was not there. Afterwards the accused came to the room stealthily and
scared her from rear and out of fear she screamed loudly. Hearing her
scream her mother came to the house of the accused and took her
away. She has stated that Police got recorded her statement U/S 164
Cr.P.C. and ext.2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures.

16.In cross examination, she has stated that at the time of the incident the

accused did not remover her pent to commit sexual intercourse with her
Page 6 of 9

nor he touched on her private part. She stated in ext.2 as tutored by one
old woman who resides adjacent to their house.

17.PW5 is the 1.0. of the case. It is his evidence that on 31/07/14 he was
posted as O/C, Sipajhar PS. On that day the informant Astab Ali lodged
the FIR and he being the O/C of the Sipajhar PS registered a case on the
basis of the FIR being Sipajhar PS case No.420/14 U/S 377(2)(i) IPC read
with Section 6 of POCSO Act and took up investigation by himself. After
completion of the investigation the accused was charge sheeted U/S
376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 6 of POCSO Act against the accused
Mozahar Ali alias Roon as absconder. He has proved and marked the
sketch map as ext.3 and ext.4 is the charge sheet and ext.1 is the FIR,
wherein ext.1(2) is his signature. His cross examination was declined by
the defence.

18.PW6 is Dr. Bidyabati Hazarika who examined the victim on 31/07/14 in
connection with this case and as per her remarks she found no injury
mark in her private parts. Nor did she found bleeding on private part of
the victim at the time of examination. She did not find spermatozoa and
molestation alleged by the victim. She has proved her medical report as
ext.5 wherein ext.5(1) is her signature.

19.In cross examination, she has revealed that she did not see x-ray plate
as regards to ossification test conducted on the victim before the court
though victim stated her age as 8 years old.

20.From the above discussed evidence on record, it is manifest that except
the victim(PW4) there is no eye witnesses to the occurrence. Hence, the
evidence of the prosecutrix(PW4) is vital to bring the charge of alleged
molestation by the accused to the hilt.
Page 7 of 9

21.On assessment of the evidence of PW4(victim), it is manifest that she
has not supported the prosecution case at all. She has completely
denied that the accused on the date of the incident while she was
watching T.V. at his house either committed rape on her nor did he touch
on her private part. It is her evidence that on the day of the occurrence
at 12 noon she came to the house of the accused situated adjacent to
their house to watch Assamese Serial ‘’Bharaghar’’. At that time she was
watching the serial. At that time the mother and sister of the accused
were also present along with the accused. But the accused though in the
house was not there. Afterwards the accused came to the room
surreptitiously and scared her from rear and out of fear she screamed
loudly. On hearing her scream, her mother came and took her to their
house. She has further revealed in cross examination that she stated
before the Magistrate in her statement 164 Cr.P.C. statement ext.2 as
tutored by one old woman who resides adjacent to their house.

22.Thus, it is amply evident that PW4 in spite of being the victim of alleged
molestation has totally backtracked from the core of the prosecution
case. Her evidence does not at all support that she was molested by the
accused on the date of the occurrence. Rather, she has given a clean
sheet by disclosing that the accused neither committed sexual
intercourse with her nor did he touch private part of the victim while
she was watching T.V. serial in the house of the accused along with his
mother and sister. However, the testimony of the victim(PW4) is found
to be completely contradictory to her statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
In the face of incoherent and irreconcilable evidence to the material
particulars of the case as adduced by the victim(PW4) her 164 Cr.P.C.
statement not being the substantive evidence cannot be accepted to
bring home the charge against the accused so much so that the victim
in her cross examination has revealed that she gave her statement U/S
164 Cr.P.C. on being tutored by one old lady resides adjacent to their
home.
Page 8 of 9

23.The medical evidence of the Medical Officer(PW6) who examined the
victim has also ruled out commission of rape on the victim as she found
no injury on the private part of the victim nor did she find bleeding of
the victim at the time of examination on her private part.

24.It is also apposite to mention that the other evidence of the independent
witness PW1, father of the victim and PW3(mother) are found to be
hearsay one. Their evidence has nothing to lend credence to the
prosecution case when the victim(PW4) herself has adduced no iota of
implicating evidence that she was sexually molested by the accused.

25.In view of what has been said and discussed above, | am of the firm
opinion that there is no reliable and legally admissible evidence to bring
home the charge levelled against the accused. Hence, the prosecution
case is disbelieved.

26.In the result, | am constrained to hold that the accused Mozahar Ali @
Roon is not guilty U/S 376(2)(i) I.P.C. read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.
He is acquitted and set him at liberty forthwith.

27.Bail bond executed by the accused and the surety shall remain in force
for another six months under the purview of Section 437(A) Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court this 19 day of
December,2017.

Dictated and corrected by me and
each page bears my signatures.

(P.Saikia)
Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai
Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
Page 9 of 9

APPENDIX:
A)Prosecution witnesses:

i)PW1 Astaf Ali

ii)PW2 Moinul Hoque

iii)/PW3 Manika Begum

iv)PW4 Parbin Sultana

v)PW5 Dimbeswar Thakuria
vi)PW6 Dr. Vidyawati Hazarika

B)Defence witness: Nil
C)Exhibits:

i)Ext.1,FIR

li)Ext.2 statement of victim
lii)Ext.3 sketch map
iv)Ext.4 Charge sheet
v)Ext.5 Medical report.

Sessions Judge
Darrang,Mangaldai.
