Page 1 of 6

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

 

SESSIONS CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for,Accused

255 of 2017
(Under Section 366 of the IPC,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 1118
of 2015)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

=-Vs-
1. Sri Pinku Tanti
Son of Sri Tena*Tanti,
Resident of Milanpur
Police Station > Tezpur
Dist:-Sonitpur, Assam.
21-08-2017

28-08-2017,
28-08-2017

28-08-2017

28-08-2017

Mr. Munin Chandra Borah
Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Mr. S. K. Roy, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Pinku Tanti is put for trial for allegation of charge
u/s 366 of the IPC.
2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or about

5:30 AM, in the evening, on 13-05-2015 the informant’s minor sister Miss “X”

aged about 15 years of old was missing from their home. On the said day of
Page 2 of 6

occurrence at about 8 AM, they came to know from regarding secret source that
the accused induced his minor sister and kidnapped her and also took her to
some unknown place. Hence, the prosecution case. The FIR was filed by the
informant Sri Dipeswar Kandha before the Office-In-charge of Dhekiajuli PS on
15.05.2015.

3. On receipt the ejahar, the O/C of Dhekiajuli PS, registered the same as
Dhekiajuli P.S. Case No. 273/15 u/s 366(A)/370 of IPC r/w 4 of POCSO Act. \After
completion of usual investigation, the O/C Dhekiajuli Police Station sent up the

case for trial against the accused, Sri Pinku Tanti u/s 366 of IPC.

4. On being appeared the accused person before this Court, after
commitment of the record, after hearing both parties, I framed charge u/s 366 of
the IPC against the accused Sri Pinku Tanti. Particular of the charge was read
over, explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined only two witnesses
including the informant and the*victim of this case. After examination of the
aforesaid witnesses including ‘the~ victim, learned counsel for the accused
submitted to close the evidence on the ground that neither the complainant nor
the victim in their statements implicated anything against the accused person.
Despite that both:the witnesses stated that the victim was in love affair with the
accused person, so”she eloped with the accused person and ultimately married
with the accused and at present they lived together as husband and wife
peacefully.»Ld. Public Prosecutor also conceded the same fact. So, praying for
closing the evidence on the ground that even if examined the other witnesses,

prosecution could not be developed.

6. Speedy trial is the right of the accused person. Considering all these
aspects, prosecution evidence is closed. After completion of prosecution
witnesses, the statement of the accused is recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the

allegations made against the accused and the evidence appears against the

 
Page 3 of 6

accused are put before him for his explanation where he denied the allegation

and declined to adduce defence evidence.

7. I have also heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of
both sides.
8. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on or about 5:30 PM of 13.05.2015,at Tulip
Tea Estate under Dhekiajuli Police station, the accused
induced/kidnapped "X", with intent that satd."X” may be
compelled or knowing that it is likely.that she will be
forced or seduced to illicit intercourse or compelled to
marry with the accused or any person and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 366 of the
IPC?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

 

9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on

record.

10. PW 1, SriDipeswar Kandha stated before this Court that the victim
“X” is his sister» The incident took place on or about 3 years back. On the date of
alleged incident, his sister loved with the accused and ultimately eloped with the
accused. The brother of the accused has married his sister. So, the accused is
known to them for long time. As they could not find the accused, so they filed an
ejahar against the accused. Ext 1 is the FIR and Ext 1 (1) is his signature.
Thereafter, “X” was found with the accused person. They have performed
marriage and at present lived as husband and wife peacefully. At present “X”
gave birth a child. Since, his sister and the accused lived peacefully as husband
and wife so, he does not like to precede the case. Infact, the accused is an

innocent person.

 
Page 4 of 6

11. In his cross examination, he admitted that he has no objection if the

accused is acquitted from this case.

12. PW 2, Miss “X’, the victim of this case stated that the accused is her
husband. The incident took place on or about 2 years ago. After love affair with
the accused she married with him and living as husband and wife. On filing of
the case, police recovered her. Thereafter, she was examined by doctor and also
examined through the Learned Magistrate. Ext. 2 is her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C
and Ext. 2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures. At present she lived with the accused
as husband and wife. As a result of their marriage, one boy. waS~»also born
between them. She eloped with the accused on her own will so the accused is

innocent and she does not want to proceed with the case.

13. In her cross examination, she admitted that she)has no objection if the

accused is acquitted from this case.

14. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Accused pleaded

total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

15. Since the case is charged*u/s, 366 of the IPC, the prosecution must prove
that :

“()) kidnapping by the accused or abduction by him;
(ii) that the person so kidnapped or abducted is a woman;
(iii) that the accused then intended, or knew that it was likely,

(a) That such woman might or would be compelled to
marry a person against her will, or

(b) That she might or would be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse.”

16. —__Law is well settled that by merely finding that the accused abducted the
woman, the charge under section 366 of IPC could not be held to have been
proved. It is further necessary to find out that they abducted the woman for any
of the purposes mentioned in section 366 IPC and in the absence of such a

finding, the charge must fail.
Page 5 of 6

17. The most important witness in an abduction case is generally the
abducted woman herself and where she is not forthcoming and the other
witnesses are not a very reliable type, the prosecution evidence must be carefully

scrutinised and weighed.

18. Here in the instant case as discussed above, the prosecutrix herself gave
goodbye to the prosecution case by stating that she loved with the accused
person so, she eloped with him. Besides that she lives with the accused persons
as husband and wife. She clearly stated that the accused is a innocent.person so
even she has no objection if the accused is enlarged on acquitted. Similarly, the
informant/PW 1 himself stated that the victim who is his sister eloped with the
accused and thereafter, married with him. That apart thesinformant stated that
the accused is a innocent person even he has no_ objection if the accused is
enlarged on acquitted. Thereafter, no any ingredient ‘of the alleged offence is

reveals by the statements of the victim and the informant of this case.

22. In view of the aforesaid reasonsp~the.alleged charge is failed. Therefore, I
am bound to hold that the prosecution has failed to prove the case against the
accused Sri Pinku Tanti beyond ‘any, reasonable doubt. As such, he is acquitted
from the charge u/s 366 of the IPC and set him at liberty forthwith.

23. The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

Send back the GR Case record being No. 1118/15 to the learned

committal court along with a copy of this order.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 28" day of
August, 2017.

(A.K. Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

 
Page 6 of 6

A P PEN DIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 ‘- Sri Dipeswar Kandha, informant

Prosecution Witness No.2 ‘= Mrs. “X”, victim

EXHIBITS

Exhibit No. 1 : FIR
Exhibit No. 2 : 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Exhibit No.2 (1-2): Signatures of the victim
(A:K: Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,

SONITPUR: TEZPUR
