eCourtIS Copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC)::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,

SPECIAL CASE NO.29/2018
U/S. 4 of the Protection of Children
from Sexual Offences Act, 2012

STATE OF ASSAM

Vs

Sri Abdul Kader Zelani
S/o Poniruddin Munshi
vill: Jaldoba Part-I

P.S Kazigaon
Kokrajhar

becuase Accused person

Appearance: -

Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghosh, Special P.P

Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. A.K. Miah

Charge framed on 30.1.2019

Evidence recorded on 15.2.2019, 1.3.2019,
15.3.2019, 1.4.2019

Argument heard on 30.4.2019

Judgment pronounced on 30.4.2019

JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that on 16.1.2016 one Manik Ali
Sheikh lodged a writen FIR at Rupshi Police out-post alleging that
accused Abdul Kader Zelani is a President of Jaldoba School and also a
member of Youth Congress. On 16.1.2016 while he was away from home,

the accused came to his residence and took his minor daughter, aged
eCourtIS Copy
about 9 years, for getting her a Sewing machine. On the way to Rupshi,
accused committed rape on the victim and also threatened her not to

disclose the matter to anyone.

2. The FIR was forwarded to Kazigaon Police Station. On receipt of the
FIR, a case U/S 376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 4/6 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offence Act (POCSO) was registered and
investigated. After completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was
laid against the accused Abdul Kader Zelani for commission of offence
U/S 376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 4/6 of the POCSO Act. The case was

transferred to this Court for disposal.

3. The accused person was summoned and on his appearance, copies

of the relevant documents were furnished to them.

4. Upon hearing both sides, charges U/S 376 IPC read with Section 4
of the POCSO Act was framed against the accused to which he pleaded

not guilty and claimed to trial.

5. In the course of trial prosecution examined 6 witnesses. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined U/S
313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and the accused

declined to adduce any evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused committed rape on the victim, a minor

girl?

DECISION AND REASONS :
eCourtIS Copy
6. Pw 1 Mukul Chandra Roy deposed that about 3 years back while he
alon with his friend Haren rabha were going towards Gauripur in his car,
he noticed a small girl who was crying. Pw 1 deposed that he came down
from his vehicle and brought the girl to his residence. Pw 1 further
deposed that on his inquiry with the girl, she told that accused has
committed rape on her while he was going along with the accused
towards Rupshi. Pw 1 then deposed that she handed over the girl to her

father.

7. Pw 2 xxxx is the mother of the victim. She deposed that accused
had taken her daughter to Rupshi for getting her a sewing machine.
Later, her daughter came home crying and on being asked she told she
fell on the ground and thereafter ran towards home. Pw 2 deposed that

the age of the victim is about 13 years

8. Pw 3 xxxx, is the father of the victim and the informant. He too

deposed that his daughter fell on the ground and became unconscious.

9. Pw 3 was declared hostile by the Special Public Prosecutor but he
was cross-examined onlu with respect to the statement under Section
161 of CrPC. A statement under Section 161 CrPC is not an evidence, if it

is established.

10. In cross-examination by the defence, pw 3 deposed that he does
not know reading and wrting and he does not know the contents of the

FIR.

11. Pw 4 xxxx, is the victim. She deposed her present age to be 16

years. She stated that about 2 and half years back, the accused came to
eCourtIS Copy
her residence in the morning hours and told her mother that a sewing
machine would be given to her and hence he wanted to take her. Her
mother allowed her to accompany the accused. Accused took her in his
bi-cycle. She was sitting behind the bi-cyle. In the jungle area, she fell
down from the bi-cycle and became unconscious. After she regained her
senses, she saw the accused standing. Pw 4 also deposed that accused
wanted to take her again for getting her a sewing machine but she
refused. Thereafter accused left. Soon afterwards, some persons came in
a car and asked her about the incident. They then took her to her
residence. Pw 4 also deposed that her father had lodged an FIR with the

police.

12. In cross-examination, she deposed that she had given the

statement under Section 164 CrPC as tutored by Police.

13. Pw 5 Kulsum Bibi deposed that she only knows that accused had
taken the vicitm in his cycle but she does not know anything else about

the case.

14. Pw 6, the Medical Officer deposed that though she did not find any
trace of spermatozoa in the vaginal smear of the victim, she did find

injuries on her private parts.

15. The medical evidence on record suggests that the victim was
indeed subjected to forced sexual intercourse. The question is whether
the accused can be said to be guilty of the offence? In view of the nature
of the evidence tendered by the parents of the victim and the victim
herself, it is evident that they are reluctant to speak the truth. These

material witnesses have completely absolved the accused of any
eCourtIS Copy
wrongdoings. The nature of evidence is such that no conviction can be

sustained.

16. Inthe result, the point for determination is answered in negative.

ORDER

Accused Abdul Kader Zelani is acquitted of the charge under
Section 376 IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act and set at
liberty forthwith.

His bail bonds is extended till six months.

A recommendation is made to the District Legal Services Authority,
Kokrajhar for considering payment of compensation to the victim
under Section 357A CrPC.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court

Dictated by: -

Addl. Special Judge, Addl Special Judge

Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
eCourtIS Copy

APPENDIX

Prosecution witness

Pw 1

Pw 2

Pw 3

Pw 4

Pw 5

Pw 6

Mukul Chandra Roy

Xxxx the mother of the victim
xxxx the father of the victim
XxXxx the victim

Kulsum Bibi

Dr. Sushma Brahma, Medical Officer

Prosecution Exhibit

Ext 1

Ext 2

FIR

Statement under Section 164 CrPC

Defence Exhibit Nil

Addl. Special Judge

Kokrajhar
