IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sessions (Spl.) Case No.08/2016
U/S 357/354 (i) IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act

Present : Mr. D. K. Das
Sessions Judge, Morigaon.

State of Assam

Vs.
Sri Bijoy BiswaS haces Accused
Date of Charge :- 01.06.2016.
Date of recording evidence :- 09.01.2017.
Date of Argument :- 09.01.2017.
Date of Judgment :- 10.01.2017.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State:- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused:- Mr. P. R. Borah, Ld. Advocate,
Mr. B. J. Bezbaruah, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

In this case, the prosecution has alleged that a 11 (eleven) years old girl
fell a victim to sexual assault at the hand of accused. The accused is one Sri
Bijoy Biswas of village Na-bheti, P.S. & Dist. Morigaon (Assam). The informant
Sri Lakhinson Pator is the resident of village Barbari, P.S. Bhuragaon, Dist
Morigaon (Assam). He is the father of the victim, Miss X (the real name of the
victim is kept conceal to save her from infamy). According to the prosecution,
the daughter of the informant i.e. the victim Miss X used to take tuition in
tutorial coaching centre to get her admission in a Navodaya Vidalaya. There was
a batch of 13 (thirteen) girl student including the victim, who were lodged in
that coaching centre. While she (the victim) was staying there, from the very
day of her admitted there, the above-named accused on different pretexts used
to touch her body at various parts. Finally, on the eventful night, while the
victim along with four other girls were sleeping in a dormitory of that coaching
centre, the above-named accused tiptoed inside the said room and he started
touching her bosom and her private part and attempted to commit rape upon
the victim. On the next day, the informant went to Morigaon P.S. and he
lodged an F.I.R. On the basis of which, the O/C Morigaon P.S. registered a case
vide Morigaon P.S. Case No.351/15, U/s 457/354/376/511 IPC, read with
Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

The investigation was set in motion. During the course of investigation,
the I.0. visited the place of occurrence, examined the victim as well as other
material witnesses and also got the victim medically examined and got her
statement recorded U/s 164 Cr.P.C. The I.O. arrested the accused and produced
before the learned Court below, wherefrom, he was remanded to judicial
custody. Thereafter, the I.O. collected the medical report and upon completion
of investigation, he submitted charge-sheet against the above-named accused
with allegation of offences punishable U/s 457/354 (i) of IPC, read with Section
4 of POCSO Act. At the time of submitting the charge-sheet, the accused was
languishing in jail hajot. Subsequently, he was let off on court bail and
thereafter, the present accused attended before the Ld. Court and he was
furnished with copies of relevant documents as mandated U/s 207 Cr.P.C.
Thereafter, the Ld. Court below committed the case to this Court by finding it to
be exclusively triable by this Court. On receipt of the case record and after
having heard Ld. Counsel of both sides and basing upon materials on record my
learned predecessor framed charges U/s 357/354 (i) of IPC, read with Section 4
of POCSO Act, which were read over and explained to the accused to which he

pleaded innocence and claimed to be tried.
2. Point for determination :

(i) Whether the accused on 13.112.2015 at around 10.30 P.M. at village
Na-bheti under Morigaon P.S. in the district of Morigaon used criminal
force to Miss X (the victim), aged about 11 years, in attempting
wrongfully to confine her?

(ii) Whether the accused on the same day, time and place used criminal
force to Miss X, a girl of 11 years, with intend to outrage her
modesty?

(iii) | Whether the accused on the same day, time and place committed
penetrative sexual assault on Miss X, a minor girl, below eighteen

years of age?

3. In this case prosecution has examined only 2 (two) PWs, the most
material witnesses of this case, the informant as PW-1 and the victim as
PW-2. But their evidence did not support the prosecution case on material
aspects. In such circumstances, prosecution was not willing to examine the
remaining witnesses and at the instance of the prosecution its evidence
stands closed. Having found no incriminating materials against the accused,
the examination of accused as warranted U/s 313 Cr.P.C. was dispensed

with for ends of justice. The accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. In this case, it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful day
the above-named accused used criminal force to the victim, in attempting
wrongfully to confine her and with intend to outrage her modesty and also

committed penetrative sexual assault.
To prove this fact, the prosecution initially examined PW-1, the
informant. He in his evidence has stated that the occurrence of incident
took place about one year ago. He knows the accused and the victim girl
Miss X is his daughter. He has further stated that he put his daughter Miss X
into the coaching center of accused in order to get training for admission at
Navodaya Bidyalaya. PW-1 has further stated that there were some other
school girls, who also admitted into the coaching center of the accused and
on a particular day, his daughter Miss X told him that the accused drew
sketches by pen on her face. So, on being anguished, he lodged this case
against the accused. PW-1 proved Ext.1, the ejahar, whereupon Ext.1 (1) is
his signature. In his cross-examination, he has stated that he does not know
the contents of the ejahar and he just put his thumb impression on the
ejahar. The ejahar was not read over to him. In his cross-examination, PW-1
has further stated that when the accused drew sketches on the face of his
daughter (Miss X), she got frightened and called him over telephone.
However, he heard that the accused used to draw sketches on the face of
other girls also out of affection. In his cross-examination, PW-1 has further
stated that the accused did not commit any illegal act with his daughter, the
victim (Miss X) and he lodged the case against the accused out of

misunderstanding.

PW-2, the victim girl, she in her evidence has stated that she was
undergoing tuition under the coaching centre about one year ago in order to
get admission in Nobodaya Vidyalaya and the name of her tutor is Bijay
Biswas. PW-2, the victim has further stated that her teacher Bijay Biswas
(the accused) used to make lots of fun with them during tuition period and
on a particular day, he drew sketches on her face by his pen and, so, she
got frightened and reported this fact to her father. Subsequently, she came
to know that her father lodged a case against the accused. PW-2, the victim
has further stated that she could not remember whether she made any
statement before police. In her cross-examination, she has stated that the

accused did not commit any illegal act or shown any abnormal behavior with
her. Her father lodged the case against the accused out of misunderstanding
and she has no objection against her teacher (the accused). PW-2 has
further stated that she does not know whether she made any statement in

Court.

Thus, we have found that none of these two vital PWs (i.e.
complainant and victim) uttered a single word as regards using criminal
force to wrongfully confine the victim and outraging her modesty and also

about penetrative sexual assault being allegedly committed by the accused.

Considering the evidence on record, we have found that the material
part of the prosecution case remained un-substantiated, as the victim
herself stated that the accused did nothing wrong with her. So, we have
found that the most material witness of this case as PW-1 & PW-2 did not
support the prosecution allegation in its material aspects. Section 232
Cr.P.C. mandates an acquittal of the accused from an offence, which states
that “ If, after taking the evidence for the prosecution, examining the
accused and hearing the prosecution and the defence on the point, the
Judge considers that there is no evidence that the accused committed the
offence, the Judge shall record an order of acquittal.”

In view of the above discussion and in view of Section 232 Cr.P.C., I
have found that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the
accused beyond any reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused is not
found guilty for the offences punishable U/s 357/354 (i) of IPC, read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act and as such, he is acquitted and set at liberty. In
this case, since the victim girl has completely negated the prosecution case,
therefore, she is not entitled to receive any compensation under section 357
A Cr.P.C.
Judgment is delivered and pronounced in the open Court on this 10" day

of January, 2017 under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Sessions Judge
Morigaon.

APPENDIX

. Prosecution witness
. PW-1 :- Sri Lakhison Pator,
PW-2 :- Miss Sagarika Amchi,
. Defence witness : Nil.

. Prosecution Exhibit :
. Ext.1 :- the ejahar.

. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

OU FIN Wn KF |[D

Sessions Judge,

Morigaon.
