IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,

Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL(POCSO) CASE NO. 25(3N) 2018.

(G.R. Case No.49/2018 ;Jonai P.S. Case No.36/2018 Under Section 377 of the
Indian Penal Code R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act.)\

The State of Assam
- Versus —

Shri Mainul Hoque ................. Accused Person
S/O Mohmmad Ali,

R/O Saulasara,

P.S. Kalgacia,

Dist.- Barpeta.

Appearance:
Shri A. Fogla,
Oebiie Perec dpa ewantages For the State

Shri. Bipt | Gogoi

Date of prosecution evidence : 13-08-2018
Date of argument : 13-08-2018

Date of Judgment : 13-08-2018.
JUDGMENT

:, The prosecution case in brief is that on 10-04-2018 complainant-

Sri Biju Dutta lodged an ejahar with Jonai Police Station alleging interalia that
on 12-12-2017 at about 2 PM in the afternoon the accused sent his minor son
Mousam Dutta aged about 9 years to bring tobacco from the house of the
accused situated at Madhya Bijoypur and thereafter the accused committed
carnal intercourse on his son against the order of the nature in the broiler
godown of the accused. It is also alleged in the ejahar that complainant's son
did not inform the fact to him or any other person. When his son feeling pain
on his anus, his son informed his father that the accused committed carnal

intercourse with him.

‘i On receipt of the ejahar police registered a case vide Jonai P.S.
Case No.36/2018 u/s 377 of I.P.C., R/W section 4 of POCSO Act. Police started
investigation and on completion of investigation submitted Charge-sheet
against the accused-Mainul Hoque u/s 377 of I.P.C., R/W section 4 of POCSO
Act.

a On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the accused,
this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing both the sides,
framed charge u/s 377 of IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act and read-over
and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The prosecution, in order
to prove its case, examined two witnesses. On perusal of evidence of

witnesses, it is seen that the witnesses did not implicate the accused as to the
involvement in the alleged commission of offence. However, the accused was

examined u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence declined to adduce an y evidence.
4. Points for determination :

(1) That you, on 12-12-2017 at about 2 PM at village Madhya
Bijoypur under Jonai Police Station had carnal intercourse against the order of
nature with Shri Mousam Dutta, a minor boy aged about 9 years, and that you
thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 377 of I.P.C. R/W section 4 of
POCSO Act

5. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard arguments
of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof :

6. PW1 the victim Shri Mousam Dutta stated that complainant is his
father. He knows accused Moinul Hoque. Incident took place about 8/9
months back. Accused has a shop near their house. While going to and
coming from school he very often visited the shop of the accused to buy
chocolate. Accused used to talk with him and he also offered chocolate.
Sometimes he stayed with the accused and played with him. On the date of
occurrence he asked for chocolate, but accused refused to give the same as
he did not have money. Accused also scolded him and he cried and his father
lodged complaint with police. In cross examination PW1 has stated that the

accused has not abused him physically as stated in the complaint.

7, PW2 Shri Biju Dutta stated that he is the complainant. He knows
accused Moinul Hoque. The incident took place about 8/9 months back.
Accused has a shop near their house. While his son going to and coming from
school he very often visited the shop of the accused to buy chocolate. Accused
also used to talked with him and he offered chocolate to his son. Sometimes
he stayed with the accused and played with him. On the date of occurrence he

asked for chocolate, but accused refused to give the same as he did not have
money. Accused also scolded his son and so he cried and he (PW2) lodged
complaint with police. Ext.1 is ejahar. Ext.1(1) is his signature. In cross-
examination PW2 stated that accused has not physically abused his son as
stated in the complaint. As his son came back home from school crying and he
told him that accused scolded his son. He lodged complaint against the
accused. After filing of the case he enquired and came to know that the
accused did not physically abused him. There was some misunderstanding and

hence he lodged complaint against the accused.

Appreciation of evidence :

8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that in
this case the victim and the complainant were examined as PW-1 and PW2
respectively. In their evidence both the vital witnesses stated that on the date
of occurrence the son of the complainant went to the shop of the accused and
asked for chocolate, but the accused refused to give him chocolate as he
(PW1) did not have money with him. Both the witnesses (PW1 & PW2) have
stated that the accused scolded PW1 (victim boy) and he cried. Thereafter
PW2, father of the PW1, lodged complaint against the accused. In cross
examination both PWs have admitted that the accused did not abuse him
(PW1) physically. There was some misunderstanding and hence PW2 filed this
case. From the evidence of both the vital witnesses (PW1 and PW2), it is seen
that both the parties have compromised the case outside the court and hence,

they are not willing to proceed against the accused.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences u/s 377 IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act. I find that the
prosecution has totally failed to prove the charges u/s 377 IPC R/W section 4
of POCSO Act.
10. In view of the above, I find accused-Moinul Hoque not guilty
u/s 377 IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act. Accordingly, he is acquitted of the
charges leveled against him. Set him at liberty forthwith.

Li. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 13° day
of August/ 2018.

at

('S Das )
ShasiatiaNeitdge,

emaji.
