 

DISTRICT- BAKSA
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, BAKSA, MUSHALPUR

SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 32/19
(u/s 366-A IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act)

 

State of Assam

-versus-

Kanai Das........... Accused

Present- Smti. M.C. Bordoloi, M.A., L.L.B., (A.Jj.S.),
Special Judge , Baksa

Appearance:
Mr. Ranjit Chetri............. Public Prosecutor for the State
Balen Ch. Boro............... Advocate for the accused person
Date of charge: 17-09-19
Date of Evidence: 20-12-19, 14-02-2020
Statement recorded on: 14-02-2020
Date of Argument: 14-02-2020
Date of judgment: 17-02-2020
c
a »0 judgment
1 Sees . One Anita Arjya lodged an ejahar with the Simlaguri Patrol post
oe ye on 18-05-19 alleging interalia that on 15-05-19 at about 5.30 p.m. she
oa failed to find her daughter(victim) (name withheld) at her house

having, returned from work and during search it could be learnt that
the accused Kanai Das had taken away her daughter with the
assistance of one Tultuli Das. It was also alleged that she had
approached the accused’s father Swapan Das seeking return of her
victim daughter without avail. Hence the ejahar.

Contd...
 

Be

on

 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 32/19

approached the accused’s father Swapan Das seeking return of her
victim daughter without avail. Hence the ejahar.

Upon receipt of the ejahar an entry in the patrol post’s general
diary vide entry no. 257 dated 16-05-19 was made and thereafter
same was forwarded to the O/C Gobardhana PS. for registration of a
case under proper section of law, consequent to which, the then O/C of
Gobardhana Police Station registered a case vide Gobardhana P.S. Case
No. 132/19 u/s 366/506/34 IPC and caused investigation thereof.

Upon completion of investigation, charge sheet was laid before
the Hon'ble Sessions Judge cum Special judge, Baksa, Mushalpur, who
having taken cognizance of the offence consequent to the registration
of the instant Spl. POCSO case No. 32/19, required production of the
accused from judicial custody. The accused was produced from jail
hajot in the Court and subsequently enlarged on bail. Vide order dated
17-09-19 the Hon'ble Sessions Judge cum Special Judge, Baksa having
found prima-facie materials u/s 366-A IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO
Act framed charge under the aforesaid section of law and the charge
on being read over and explained to the accused, he pleaded not guilty
and claimed trial.

The prosecution in order to prove its case examined 3 nos. of
Pws and the victim as CW1.

Prosecution prayed for closure of evidence as none of the

eX yi Witnesses so examined had supported the prosecution version. The

yor

defence side cross examined all the PW witnesses.
The accused in his statement u/s 313 CrPC pleaded complete
innocence and declined to adduce defence evidence.
The defence plea is that of total denial of guilt.

Contd...
+

X
sh

63:

oe

 

of
30
N

Spl. POCSO Case No. 32/19
ARGUMENTS

Heard the arguments advanced by the learned counsels of both
sides.

Learned P.P. Baksa submits that Court shall pass Judgment/orders
as deem fit after perusal of the case record in his entirety.

Learned defence counsel submits that accused is innocent and
the victim girl on her own accord had gone to her aunt’s house after
some dispute with her mother and the accused had been entangled in
the case for no fault of his. Ld. Counsel prays for acquittal of the
accused.

Perused the case record.

The point for determination that has surfaced in the instant case
is as follows:

Point for determination:

1. Whether on the 15" day of May, 2019 at about 5.30 p.m. the
accused induced the informant’s daughter a girl under the age
of 18 years to go from her home with the intent that she may
be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with another person
and thereby committed offence punishable under section 366-
A IPC.?

2. Whether the accused on 15-05-19 committed penetrative
sexual assault on the victim girl?

3. What was the age of the victim girl at the relevant time?

My decision on the above points for determination along with
reasons is given hereinunder.

Discussion, Decision and reasons there for:

 

To address the points for determination so framed, it will be
necessary to peruse the evidence on record and | proceed to do so.

PW-1 the informant of the instant case deposed that the incident
took place about 7 months ago and that on the fateful day her victim

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 32/19

daughter could not be found at the house and despite search she could
not be traced out, whereupon she lodged the ejahar. PW 1 also stated
that one day after the occurrence she found her daughter in the house
of her elder sister wherefrom she recovered her daughter. PW 1 stated
that presently her daughter is aged 17 years. She also stated that the
accused had love affairs with her daughter much prior to the
occurrence.

In her cross examination PW1 clarified that the accused did not
kidnap her daughter and that the victim had gone to her aunt’s house
on the fateful day.

PW 2- Pranita Das and PW3- Joydev Das in their respective
evidences deposed that after the disappearance of the victim girl on
the fateful day the informant lodged the case. Both of them testified in
respect of existence of love affairs between the accused and the victim
girl.

In their respective cross examination PW 2 and PW3 disclosed
that they had not seen the accused taking away the victim girl on the
fateful day.

CW1 the victim/prosecutrix deposed that she went to her aunt’s
house on the fateful day without informing her mother and that her
mother thought that she had eloped with the accused as her mother
knew about’ her love relationship with the accused for which her
mother filed the ejahar. CW 1 also stated that the police sent her for
medical examination after her recovery from her aunt’s house and also
recorded her statement in Court. CW1 confirmed the fact that the
accused did not establish any physical relationship with her and that
accused would marry her on her attaining majority. CW1 identified her
medical examination report as Ext. 1, her signature thereon as Ext.
1(1), her statement before the Magistrate as Ext.2 and her signatures
thereon as Ext. 2(1) and Ext 2(2) and her birth certificate as Mat.
Ext.1.

When put to cross examination by defence,CW1 disclosed that
she made her statement in Court on being tutored by the local people.

Contd...
Spl. POCSO Case No, 32/19

She also reiterated that the accused did not take her away from her
house nor forced her to have sexual intercourse with him or
committed any act of sexual assault. She revealed that she had left
her house for her aunt’s place without informing her mother and also
that her mother would give her hand in marriage with the accused as
she has love affairs with the accused.

 

This is the evidence available on record.

In the instant case, the accused stands charge u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act and u/s 366-A of the Indian Penal Code.

To bring home a charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act the prosecution
has to prove that the accused penetrates his penis, to any extent, into
the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do
so with him or any other person;or inserts, to any extent, any object or
a part of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or
anus of child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person;
or manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra or anus or any part of the body of
the child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or
applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other person.

Perusal of the evidence available on record discloses that the
victim in her evidence had clarified the fact that she went to the house
\v 40 of her aunt on the fateful day without informing her mother and that as

a ees she had love affairs with the accused her mother filed the present
\*3 sor case. The victim also disclosed that accused did not have any physical
relation with her and she clarified further that accused did not force her
either to have sexual intercourse with him. The victim’s mother PW1
also supported the victim girl. It is in the evidence of all the Pws that
the victim girl was recovered from the house of her aunt. It is nowhere
revealed that accused had taken away the victim girl to her aunt's
place or to any other place. Accordingly the charge u/s 366-A IPC
brought about against the accused by the prosecution fails. Further it is
not in the evidence on record that accused had committed any sexual

Contd...
Spl. POCSO Case No. 32/19

intercourse or any act of sexual assault on the victim’s person. The
victim herself has negated the prosecution case.

Accordingly in the above circumstances | am constrained to hold
that prosecution has failed to establish the charge u/s 366-A IPC r/w
section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused person beyond all

 

reasonable doubt. Accused Kanai Das deserves to be acquitted.

The point for determination stands answered as above.
In the facts and circumstances of the case, no compensation is
awarded to the victim.

Order
O 5 In the light of the above discussions, accused Kanai Das is
\e * oe x acquitted of the charges u/s 366-A IPC R/W Section 4 of the POCSO Act
4 go ae and set at liberty forthwith.
so The bail bond of the accused person shall remain in force for a

period of 6 months with effect from today in view of the provisions of
Section 437-A Cr.PC.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on the 17" day of
February, 2020.

Uh Ty) AO RO
(Smti. M.C. nordclobz4e Judge
Baksa, Mushaipur

Special Judge, Baksa, Mushalpur

Dictated and corrected by me

Bafa sdge
cial Judg
(Smti. M.C. arr Mushalour
Special Judge, Baksa, fushalpur

Contd...
 

Spl. POCSO Case No. 32/19

Prosecution witness:

PW1
PW2
PW3

Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1

Ext.1(1)

Ext.2

Ext.2(1) and Ext. 2(2)

Defence witness:

Material exhibits:
Mat. Ext. 1

Court witness:

CWl

APPENDIX

Anita Arjya(informant)
Pranita Das
Joydev Das

Medical report of victim

Signature of victim

Statement of victim u/s 164 CrPC.
Signature of victim

Nil.
Birth certificate

victim(name withheld)

Ni ratals’

(Smti. M.C. Bordaloi) ezfa/308
Special Judge, Baksa, Mughialptir’

use ie —

Contd...
