V - \IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE 22221: CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

wen theo ial(P 4 1
seen U/S 376(AB) IPC R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Vs.
Md.AsmanAli nae Accused

PRESENT: Sri D.J. Mahanta,

Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.
ADVOCATES APPEARED:
For the State ’ Sri D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor

For the accused ! Mr. B. Choudhury,
Md. B.A. Ahmed, Ld. Advocates

25.01.19, 15.03.19, 28.03.19,
ah judg 13.05.19, 07.06.19, 08.07.19

Ch
4) ent +
y
a

Ra ee Date of Evidence : 13.12.18, 20.12.18, 03.01.19,

a6

1f/
K Sial
¥ sale y

oni AaNSs Date of Argument. : 06.08.2019
Date of Judgment : 19.08.2019

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case as revealed during trial in brief is that on
01.09.2018, at about 8.45. AM, in absence of informant Lakhiram Narzary at
his home, a person used to come to their village, who introduced himself as a
doctor, for selling medicines and seeing his 11 years old physically challenged
daughter Miss ‘Xx’ (name is withheld), said person gave a medicine for her
treatment. At that moment, his wife told the said person that she had no

money to purchase the medicine and for which she went to her neighbor's
house for collecting money. When his wife came back to her home, she saw
that said person was committing sexual intercourse with his said daughter in
their house situated at northern side. Though his wife raised hue and cry, but
said person fled away on his motorcycle. It was alleged that the accused used
to visit their village for selling medicines and he gave his mobile phone No.
7635892830 to one of his neighbors for making contact with him if someone
falls sick.

2. On the date of occurrence informant lodged FIR before Sidli P.S. After
receiving the FIR, the O/C of Sidli P.S. registered a case being numbered as
Sidli P.S. Case No. 31/18 U/S 376 IPC R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act and
entrusted S.I. Nikhil Ch. Ray to investigate the case. Accordingly, the
Investigating Officer visited the place of occurrence, drew sketch map of the
P.O., recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical
examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C, collected the medical
report and arrested the accused. After completion of investigation, the
investigating Officer submitted charge-sheet against the accused Asman Ali
U/S 376(AB) IPC R/W 6 of POCSO Act before this court as offence under
POCSO Act is triable by Special Court. Accused was produced before this court
after his first remand. Therefore receiving charge sheet, this court furnished
the copies of relevant documents to the accused person when he was
produced from jail. On perusal of entire materials on record and hearing both
sides and after having found a prima facie case, formal charge U/S 376AB IPC
read with Section 6 of POCSO Act was framed against the accused. Charge
was read over and explained to the accused to which he denied to plead
guilty. During entire trial, accused remained in judicial custody and he was
tried as UTP.

3. In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as
19 (nineteen) witnesses including the M.O.s and I.0. Two witnesses were
examined as CWs.

Following witnesses were examined:-

(1) Victim Miss ‘x’ (name is withheld) as PW 1
(2) Shri Lakhiram Narzary (Informant) as PW 2
(3) Smt. Rani Narzary as PW 3

(4) Shri Maniram Narzary as PW 4

(5) Shri Pronoy Basumatary as PW 5

(6) Smt. Swmkhri Basumatary as PW 6

(7) Smt. Alep Narzary as PW 7

(8) Shri Sameswar Narzary as PW 8

(9) Smt. Joysri Basumatary @ Haithu as PW 9
(10) Smt. Sochita Borgoyary as PW 10

(11) Shri Bisti Narzary as PW 11

(12) Shri Birkhang Narzary as PW 12

(13) Shri Bidaram Basumatary as PW 13

(14) Smt. Ranjila Basumatary as PW 14

(15) Sri Pranab Basumatary as PW 15

(16) Shri Mukta Basumatary as PW 16

(17) Dr. Paltanga Kungur Brahma (M.O.) as PW 17
(18) Dr. Lucky Basumatary (M.O.) as PW 18

(19) S.I. Nikhil Ch. Ray (1.0.) as PW 19

(20) Mrs. Pranami Goswami J.M. 1* class as CW 1
(21) Shri Bhaben Das as CW 2

4, Seizure lists were exhibited as Ext.1, Ext.3 and Ext.6.
Statement of PW 10 Sochita Borgoyary U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited as
Ext.2. OPD prescription card was exhibited as Ext.4. Medical report was
exhibited as Ext. 5. Sketch map was exhibited as Ext.7 and charge-sheet was
exhibited as Ext.8. Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited as
Ext.9. Statement of PW 3, the mother of victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited
as Ext.10. FIR was exhibited as Ext.11.

5. Defence plea is of total denial. Statement of accused was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Defence adduced no evidence.

6. Heard argument from both sides. I have perused the entire
evidence on record. I have also considered the statement of the accused
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.
 

7. POINTS FOR CONSIDERATION:-

For the offence U/S 376AB of IPC

1. Whether on 01.09.2018, at about 8.45 AM, in the house of the
informant situated at Village Aminpara under P.S. Sidli, the
accused committed rape upon Miss 'X’ (name is withheld),

minor daughter of the informant aged below 12 years?
For the offence U/S 6 of POCSO Act

2. Whether on same date, time and place, the accused committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon Miss 'X’ (name is

withheld), minor daughter of the informant aged below 12

years?
DI ION, DECISION AND R T FOR:-
8. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence

on record regarding above mentioned both points simultaneously for the sake

of convenience.

9. PW 1 is the victim Miss ‘X’ (name is withheld). The witness
expressed her reply through gesture only. Her mother explained the meaning.
She stated through gesture that the person touched her breast and that the
person committed sexual assault by pointing to her vagina and gagged her
(pointing her mouth with her two hands).

10. PW 2 is the informant as well as father of the victim. He
deposed that age of his daughter was about 11 years but she could not speak
properly due to disease. Occurrence took place on 01.09.201. At that time, he
was at Karigaon market and when he returned from the market, his wife
reported him that a Muslim boy committed sexual intercourse with his
daughter. When he reached his home, the person had already fled away. His

daughter was sleeping and she could not stand properly. On being asked, she
told through gesture that accused gagged her and committed sexual
intercourse with her. He searched the person but could not find hm. Accused
visited his house for three times prior to the incident to supply some
medicines for recovery of his daughter. At the time of occurrence, his
daughter and wife were present in his home. At that time, he did not know
the name of the accused but after the incident he knew his name from other
villagers as Asman Ali. During cross-examination, he deposed that he had
three children. Khwmta Narzary is his eldest son and his age is about 15
years. Victim is his second child. He saw blood stain in the bed on which
victim was sleeping and he also saw blood stain on her wearing apparels.

11. PW 3 is the mother of the victim as well as eyewitness of the
occurrence. She deposed that she knew the accused but did not know his
name. The accused visited their house three times prior to the incident. Age of
her daughter is about 11 years but she could not speak properly due to
disease since her childhood. Occurrence took place on 01.09.2018. On that
day, in the morning, her husband went to market. She was present along with
victim and her youngest daughter. At about 8 AM, accused visited their house
and showed a bottle of medicine for brain and price of which was about Rs.
1000/-. She decided to purchase the medicine for which he along with her
youngest daughter went to the house of one Haithu for collecting money.
After 15/20 minutes, she returned to her home but she did not find both the
accused and victim in verandah. Then she entered his house and saw that
both accused and victim were in naked state within their bed room. Victim
was lying on the bed and accused was standing in naked state. She pushed
the accused but he immediately put on his dress and fled away. When she
asked the victim about the incident, she told through gesture that accused
gagged her and committed sexual intercourse. She also told her that she felt
pain on her private part and this witness saw that blood was oozing from
private part of the victim. When she made hue and cry, villagers came to her
house and at about 9 AM, when her husband returned, she reported the
matter to him. During cross-examination, she deposed that bottle of the
medicine was showed to the villagers. At Sidli P.S., lady police officer
interrogated her and victim. Later on, she deposed that a male police officer
interrogated her and victim at Sidli P.S. Police did not seize any bag containing
medicine from her house. When her husband returned to their home, there
were three persons in her house. Bidaram along with two women were
present at that time. It was suggested that she did not state before police as
well as Magistrate that when she entered the house she saw that both
accused and victim were in naked state but same was denied by this witness.
It was also suggested that due to ill-advice of some persons, this case was
filed narrating a false story but same was also denied by her.

12. PW 4 is the younger brother of the informant. He deposed that
he know the accused. Occurrence took place on 01.09.2018, at about 8 AM.
At that time, he was in Karigaon market and when he returned to his home at
about 3.30 PM, he heard from the mother of the victim that accused
committed sexual intercourse with the victim. At that time, age of his niece
was about 11 years. When he asked the victim, she through gesture stated
that accused had committed sexual intercourse with her. Accused visited the
house of the informant for three times prior to the incident for selling
medicine. He used to visit their village for selling medicine. During cross-
examination, he deposed that his brother accompanied him to Karigaon
bazaar. His statement was recorded by police personnel of Garubhasa Out
Post but he did not state before the police that accused visited to their village
to sell the medicine and he came to the house of the informant three times
prior to the incident.

13. PW 5 is Sri Pronoy Basumatary, who deposed that occurrence
took place on 01.09.2019. On that day, at about 8 AM, he was returning from
Dotoma to his home. On the way, in front the house of the informant, he
found some persons were loitering and searching some person who allegedly
committed rape upon the 11 years daughter of the informant. He went to the
house of the informant and found the victim. He and other persons wanted to
know the actual fact of the case from the mother of the victim because victim
could not speak properly. He knew that someone committed rape upon the
victim but he did not know the person who allegedly committed rape upon the
victim. He also knew that a person used to visit the house of the informant to
sell some medicines and that person committed the rape as reported by the

mother of the victim. During cross-examination, he deposed that he stated
an
Ls

a ‘ i P
Special Judge

Chirang, Kajalgaon

before the I.O. that his house was situated at Bhur Tiniali. He was coming
alone on motorcycle. He knows Bidaram. He did not witness the occurrence
but he heard from the mother of the victim and Bidaram.

14. PW 6 is Smt. Swmkhri Basumatary, who deposed that age of
the victim is about 11 years. Occurrence took place on 1* day of Assamese
moth of ‘Bhadra’. At that time, she was in his home which is situated adjacent
to the house of the informant. Occurrence took place on Saturday, at about 8
AM. On hearing cry of the victim, she came to the house of the informant and
saw that accused fled away on his motorcycle. She also noticed that blood
was oozing from the private part of the victim. The mother of the informant
told her that accused committed rape upon the victim and she showed the
private part of the victim. Victim was in weak. During cross-examination, she
deposed that she stated before the villagers that she went to the P.O. after
one hour and knew about the incident from the mother of the informant. She

deposed before this Court as tutored by the villagers.

15, PW 7 Smt. Alep Narzary deposed that age of the victim is about
11 years. Occurrence took place on 01.09.18, at about 8 AM. At that time, she
was in her home. When she heard that victim was crying, then she came to
the house of the victim. Then mother of the victim showed the private part of
the latter. She saw there was dirt on her private part. During cross-
examination, she deposed that she came to know that a doctor committed
rape upon the victim.

16. PW 8 Someswar Narzary deposed that occurrence took place
on 01.09.2018. At that time, he was absent. When he returned from his work
at about 3 PM, then the village headman told him that police would come to
the house of the informant on next day for which he would be present
thereon. On the next day, he went to the house of the informant. Then the
mother of the informant told him about the incident.

if. PW 9 is Smt. Joysri Basumatary @ Haithu, who deposed that
she knew the informant as well as victim. She knew the accused when he

came to her house to sell medicine for one time. Age of the victim was about
11 years. Occurrence took place on 01.09.18, at about 8.30 AM. She was in
her house. Then mother of the victim came to her home for want of money
but she did not pay. She returned to her home. After that she called her by
shouting. He saw the accused fled away on the motorcycle. When she reached
the house of the victim, her mother reported her that at the time of her
returning, she saw that accused had committed sexual intercourse with her.
Then she along with mother of the victim put off her panty and found dirty on
her private part. During cross-examination, she deposed that on the date of
occurrence, her husband and son were present in her home. There are two
houses in between her home and the house of the informant. Those houses
are belonged to Pujam Basumatary and Swmkhri. Swmkhrwi was present in
her home but other family members were absent.

18. PW 10 Smt. Sochita Borgoyary deposed that occurrence took
place on 01.09.2018, at about 8.30 AM. At that time, she was present in her
home. Then mother of the victim called her and asked her to give the phone
number of the accused. She had the mobile phone number of the accused
because he gave her a receipt when she purchased medicine. She supplied
the phone number through the receipt. When she reached the house of the
informant, there were several villagers gathered thereon. Then she heard that
accused had committed sexual intercourse with the victim. She came to know
from the victim that accused committed sexual intercourse with her. She was
in serious condition. During cross, she deposed that she had mobile phone
number of Airtel Company. She could not say the phone number of the
accused. She further stated that police wrote the phone number of the
accused and supplied the paper to her at the time of recording of her

statement. No receipt was exhibited by prosecution through this witness.

19. PW 11 is Shri Bisti Narzary, who deposed that he knows the
informant as well as the victim. He also knows the accused because he used
to visit their village to sell medicine. Age of the victim was about 11 years.
Occurrence took place on 1.9.18, at about 7/8 AM. He was busy with fishing
near his home. Then he heard that mother of the victim made hue and cry

stating that her daughter was raped by a person who was coming on
motorcycle. He saw that accused was riding a motorcycle and left the place.

He informed one Bidaram through mobile phone to catch the person.

20. PW 12 Birkhang Narzary deposed that occurrence took place on
01.09.2018, at about 8.30 AM. At that time, he was busy with ploughing at
field about 100 metre away from the P.O. He heard that mother of the victim
made hue and cry stating ‘dhar’ ‘dhar’. Then she came to the house of the
informant where the mother of the victim reported him that accused had
committed sexual intercourse with her daughter. He found the victim in
weeping condition. During cross, he deposed that he knew about the incident
after police came.

21. PW 13 is Shri Bidaram Basumatary @ Haithu, who deposed that
he knows the informant as well as the victim. He also knows the accused as
he used to come to their village to sell medicine. Occurrence took place on
01.09.2018, at about 8.00 AM. He was in his home. He heard about the
incident from the mother of the victim. She told him that on the date of
occurrence, accused came to the house of the victim to sell medicine for
recovery of disease of the victim. At that time, mother of the victim had no
money for which she went to the house of one Joysrhee to collect money.
When she returned from the house of Joyshree, she saw that accused was
committing sexual intercourse with the victim within their house. She could
not catch the accused, he fled away on his motorcycle and after hearing
‘hulla’, he came to the house of the victim. During cross, he deposed that he

did not hear the incident from any other person except parents of the victim.

ze. PW 14 Smt. Ranjila Basumatary deposed that occurrence took
place on 01.09.2018, at about 8.00 AM. She was in her home. Hearing the
hue and cry raised by the mother of the victim, she visited the place of
occurrence. At that time, the age of the victim was about 11 years. She along
with the mother of the victim and other women noticed bleeding on the
private part of the victim. She also saw that accused was going on a
motorcycle. She also heard from the mother of the victim that accused had
committed sexual intercourse with victim for which blood was oozing from her

private part. During cross, she deposed that she along with four/five women
et tiinte
Pog me ALD iL sLas
Hecial vs

vaisinaon
1G, Kajaty

ic

10

came to the house of the victim and saw the bleeding on her private part.
Joyshree Basumatary was also present and she accompanied her and she also
noticed the bleeding injury on the private part of the victim.

23. PW 15 Shri Pranab Basumatary deposed that occurrence took
place on 01.09.18 but he does not know about the actual incident. He was
called by Sidli P.S. and he put his signature upon a seizure list by which a
school bag was seized. During cross-examination, he deposed that he put his
signature upon the seizure list at day time but he could not remember
whether he put his signature upon a blank paper or filled up seizure list. He

does not know the contents of the seizure list.

24. PW 16 Sri Mukta Basumatary deposed that he saw the accused
when police arrested him. He saw the accused on 1* September, 2018, at
about 9/9.15 AM. They also followed the police and accused on same date
and went to Sidli P.S. On same day, at about 12 noon, he put his signature
upon the seizure list by which police seized Ayurvedic medicine, mobile and a
school bag. He put his signature upon the seizure list after it was written by
police. During cross-examination, he deposed that he did not read the
contents of the seizure list but he put his signature. When he put his signature
on seizure list, there was no any other person at Sidli P.S. except Pranab

Basumatary.

25. PW 17 is the Medical Officer before whom the victim was first
brought for treatment. He deposed that on 03.09.2018, he was working as Sr.
Medical & Health Officer at JSB Civil Hospital, Kajalgaon, Chirang. On that day,
one patient, namely Miss ‘x’ (name is withheld), aged about 12 years, female
of village Aminpara came to OPD JSB Civil Hospital, vide OPD registration No.
16213 dated 03.09.18 and he attended her. She was accompanied by her
mother. Her mother complained about her vaginal injury. On the basis of said

complain, he prescribed some medication and advised her to consult with a

- gynecologist. During cross-examination, he deposed that he did not examine

the patient. He only referred her to concerned gynecologist. He does not know
about the nature of injury or how it was caused. He only heard from the
mother of the victim.
11

26. PW 18 is another Medical Officer, who examined the victim.
She deposed that on 01.09.2018, he was working as Gynecologist at JSB Civil
Hospital, Kajalgaon. On that day, she examined Miss ‘x’ (name is withheld)
S/O of Shri Lakhiram Narzary of village Aminpara under P.S. Kokrajhar, Dist.
Kokrajhar in connection with Sidli P.S. Case No. 31/2018 U/S 376 IPC R/W
Section 6 of POCSO Act escorted by WHG Aleya Khatun of Sidli P.S.

There was history of sexual assault on 01.09.2018 at 8.45 AM

in the house of the victim.
On examination, she found the following:-
On examination, she found the following:-

Height — 4 ft. 2 inch, Weight — 28 Kg, Chest girth — 27.5 inch,
Abdomen girth - 25.5 inch, cm, Total number of teeth — 16 Nos. (Temporary
teeth 5 Nos. and permanent teeth 11 Nos.). Space for 3 molar teeth —
Present. Scalp hair — Present. Axillary hair — present. Pubic hair — absent.
Beards, mustaches and body hairs — absent. Breast budding is seen.

Menarche — Five months back according to mother. Menstrual
cycle — regular. Last menstrual period cannot specify the date of LMP.

Genital organs and vulva — normal. Vulva — normal. Hymen is
not intact, deficient in the posterolateral part. Vagina — normal. Evidence of
veneral diseases — absent.

No injury marks seen on her body or private parts.

The patient already had taken bath and changed the clothes in
which she was allegedly assaulted at the time of examination.

General mental condition — Conscious.

Co-operative, behavior is normal. Intelligence is below average. Gait — Normal.

On radiological investigation:-
(i) Right hand X-ray — Ulnar and radial physis present, not
fused.
a2

(ii) Right elbow joint — External epicondyle and head of
radius not fused.

Pelvic bone — Iliac crest, anterior inferior iliac spine, pubic
symphysis and ischeal tuberosity all appeared, not fused.

Hip joint — Lesser trochanter, appearing - on process — no
fusion.

Impression — In viewing the X-ray, films, the provisional
diagnosis of age estimation is 11 years but not above 12 years.

According to the Medical Officer, the patient’s age according to
radiological investigation is above 11 years but not more than 12 years. There
was no injury seen over the private parts or body. In the light of fact that the
patient is of below average intelligence and there is deficient hymen and the
fact that the patient had taken bath and changed her clothes prior to the

examination, the possibility of sexual assault cannot be ruled out completely.

During cross-examination, she deposed that she has brought
the medico legal register along with her. She has not mentioned registration
number in her report. Police directly brought the victim to her. She was not
referred any doctor. She further deposed that in a small hole of vagina, if a
grown up man forcefully commits intercourse, there should be tears, rupture
and laceration and profuse bleeding with severe pain. She cannot walk
properly if it was happened. From her findings, she cannot point out
immediate forceful penetration but hymen was got ruptured. She only found

deficient hymen but not found any immediate rupture of hymen.

27. PW 19 is the I.0 who investigated the matter. He deposed that
on 01.09.18, he was serving as I.C. of Garubhasa O.P. under Sidli P.S. On that
day, at about 4.35 PM, informant Lakhiram Narzary lodged an ejahar before
the Sidli P.S. Concerned O.C. entrusted him for the investigation. After taking
the charge of investigation, he recorded the statement of the informant, sent
the victim to JSB Civil Hospital, Kajalgaon for examination, and recorded the
statement of the victim in presence of her mother because victim was below

average intelligence and her statement U/S 164 CrPC was also recorded in
13

presence of her mother. Initially, the name of the accused was not mentioned
in the FIR but his phone number was supplied. He collected the CDR of said
phone number and according to given address in the CDR, he searched the
accused and it was found that the subscriber of the given phone number was
one Ajgar Ali, who was the father of the accused. It was also revealed during
investigation that accused used the SIM card belonged in the name of his
father Ajgar Ali. He collected the medical examination report of the victim,
arrested the accused and Test Identification Parade was done in the district
Jail, Kokrajhar. The victim could not identify the accused by her mother
identified him. He recorded the statement of other witnesses, sent the mother
of the victim to the Court for recording her statement U/S 164 CrPC, seized
one piece of paper in which phone number was written, some medicines from
the accused, one mobile handset belonged to the accused, one electoral
identity photo, one bag from the accused, one bottle of medicine found in the
place of occurrence, drew the sketch map of the P.O. and after completion of
investigation, submitted charge-sheet against the accused for the offence U/S
376(AB) IPC R/W Section 6 of POCSO Act.

28. CW 1 is Mrs. P. Goswami, the learned JMFC, Chirang, who
recorded the statement of the victim and her mother U/S 164 CrPC. She
deposed that on 04.09.18, she was serving as Judicial Magistrate, 1* Class,
Chirang, Kajalgaon. On that day, she has recorded the statement of victim
Miss ‘X’ (name is withheld) aged about 11 years U/S 164 CrPC who was
identified by WHG Aleya Khatun. She proved the statement of the victim as
Ext.9 and her signatures therein as Ext. 9(1), 9(2) and 9(3). The victim stated
in Boro language and her office peon Anjima Narzary interpreted the same.
The statement was recorded in presence of her mother. On the same day, he
had recorded the statement of Rani Narzary, the mother of the victim U/S 164
identified by WHG Aleya Khatun. She also stated in Boro language and same
was interpreted by her office peon Anjima Narzary. She proved the statement
of the mother of the victim U/S 164 CrPC as Ext.10 and her signatures thereon
as Ext.10(1), 10(2) and 10(3). During cross-examination, she deposed that in
Ext.9, she did not mention in what language the witness stated before him
and under what language interpreter explained to her.
14

29. CW 2 is S.I. Bhaben Das, the then O/C of Sidli P.S. who
deposed that on 01.09.2018, he was serving as O/C of Sidli P.S. On that day,
at about 4.35 PM, one Lakhiram Narzary lodged an FIR before him. After
getting the FIR, he registered Sidli P.S. Case No. 31/18 U/S 376 IPC R/W
Section 6 of POCSO Act and entrusted S.I. Nikhil Ch. Ray for investigation. He
proved the FIR as Ext.11 and his signature thereon as Ext. 11(1).

30. After going through the entire evidence on record, I have found
that PW 3 Rani Narzary, the mother of the victim stated before this Court that
she had witnessed the occurrence and from her other witnesses heard about
the incident. Though PW 3, PW 6, PW 7, PW 9 and PW 14 stated that they
noticed bleeding injury or dirt on the private part of the victim but Medical
Officer, particularly PW 18, who examined the victim on 01.09.2018 at about
5.20 PM, had not seen any bleeding injury. During cross-examination, PW 18
stated that in a small hole of vagina, if a grown up man forcefully commits
intercourse, there should be tears, rupture and laceration and profuse
bleeding with severe pain. She cannot walk properly if it was happened. From
her findings, she cannot point out immediate forceful penetration but hymen
was got ruptured. She also explained that she only found deficient hymen but
not found any immediate rupture of hymen. No any injury was found by her
during the time of examination. Comparing the medical evidence with oral
evidence I have found that no any injury or pain or laceration was detected by
the doctor who examined the victim on the very day of occurrence at about
5.20 PM witnesses stated that they saw bleeding injury on the private part of
victim. No any blood stained cloth was seized by the investigating Officer
though P.W.2 stated that he saw blood stain on bed sheet and wearing
apparels of the victim. From the record, it is revealed that case was lodged on
01.09.2018 at about 4.35 PM and victim was examined by the doctor at about
5.20 PM i.e. within one hour after filing of the case. After that on 03.09.18,
victim was again examined by PW 17, another Medical Officer. He clearly
stated that actually he did not examine the victim. He only referred her to
Gynecologist because the mother of the victim reported him that PW 1 felt
pain on her private part but it was not detected. So, it is found that PW 18,
who examined the victim immediately after the alleged incident, did not find

any kind of pain, laceration or injury. Therefore, medical evidence did not
ae

MRiramcd, Ext
Ah bhh CAP ee ,

15

support the oral evidence given by PW 3, PW 6, PW 7, PW 9 and PW 14 and
others who allegedly saw the bleeding on the private part of the victim.
Interestingly, PW 6, during her cross-examination, stated that she was tutored
to how to depose before this Court by the villagers.

31. Learned P.P. during the time of argument pointed out that in
this case, statement given by the victim is sufficient to convict the accused.
Moreover, PW 9 and PW 11 saw the accused when he fled away from the P.O.
on motorcycle and considering the evidence of these two eyewitnesses, it is
established that at the time of occurrence, accused was present and he fled

away from the P.O. on motorcycle.

je. As a reply to this point, learned defence counsel Mr.
Choudhury, submitted before this Court that in this case, no any motorcycle
was seized which linked the presence of accused at P.O. Regarding other
point, learned defence counsel agreed with the learned P.P. that in a case of
sexual assault, sole evidence of victim is sufficient if she is normal in her
intelligence. According to doctor's report, intelligence of the victim is below
average. Moreover, she could not speak and hear. So, victim is not a normal
girl with average intelligence. At this juncture, the victim may be tutored by
her family members and others as intelligence of victim is below average. In
this situation, on the sole basis of her testimony, accused cannot be booked
for the offence in which severe punishment is given by the legislature.
According to learned defence counsel, in this case, victim could not identify
the accused during TIP though it was alleged by her mother (PW 3) and other
witnesses that accused visited their house three times to sell Ayurvedic
medicine. The accused was identified by the mother i.e. PW 3 only, who are
not wholly reliable witnesses. In this regard, learned defence counsel pointed

to her earlier statement given before the Magistrate U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

oo: I have gone through it. It is found that at that time, she stated
before the Magistrate that when he returned from the house of one Haithu,
she saw that the boy had laid on her daughter in their bed and he was having
sex with her. She further stated before the Magistrate that she clearly saw
that he had inserted his penis into the vagina of her daughter. Then she

 
\

\s

Special Judge

Chirang, 6!

aigaon

16

immediately rushed to him and the boy hurriedly closed the zip of his pant. In
her later deposition, same witness before this Court stated that when she
entered her house, saw that both accused and victim were in naked state
within their bedroom. Victim was lying on the bed and accused was standing
in naked state. She pushed the accused and latter immediately put on his
dress and fled away. After comparing these two statements given by PW 3, I
have found that in her earlier statement, she did not state that accused was in
naked state but he was wearing a pant but opened the chain of his pant.
When he saw the PW 3, he immediately closed the zip of his pant and fled
away. In her earlier statement, PW 3 stated that he saw that the accused was
engaging with sexual intercourse along with the victim. In her later deposition,
she stated that accused was standing in naked state only. So, from her later
deposition, it is found that she did not witness the actual sexual intercourse
between the accused and victim. Other witnesses heard about the incident
from the PW 3 as I have already mentioned. Some of the witnesses,
therefore, stated that PW 3 told that she saw the accused when he was
committing sexual intercourse with the victim. So, in my view, PW 3 is not
reliable witness. She altered her version before this Court. The evidence given
by PW 6 that she was tutored by the villagers also creates doubt about the
actual incident because medical evidence did not support the allegation
leveled by PW 3 against the accused. PW 2, the informant saw that bed sheet
was blood stained but no such blood stained bed sheet was seized by police.

34. In this case, another interesting fact I have noticed is that the
accused was not apprehended by the villagers after knowing the incident.
Though witnesses stated that they heard hue and cry made by PW 3 and they
saw the accused was riding on motorcycle, but not a single person obstructed
the accused or stopped the motorcycle on the way. They could not catch him
within their village or nearby places. Learned defence counsel rightly pointed
out that accused was not caught by the villagers within the area instead of
which he was arrested at Chapaguri as alleged by the I.0. Identity of the
accused was not confirmed at the time of his apprehension by the 1.0. The
1.0. during his cross-examination stated that accused was identified from his
mobile phone number but mobile number belonged to his father. PW 10 Smt.
Sochita Borgoyary stated that she supplied the phone number of the accused

 
e|]rnecia
wpe rt

Chirand,

i
N

Teteic:

tal in¢
sal JUQYS

t

(aiaiaa
Kajaigaon

1/

to the mother of the victim through a receipt which was given to her by the
accused because she purchased some medicines from him. Said receipt was
not seized or produced before this Court. The same witness during her cross-
examination deposed that actually police wrote the mobile number and
handed over the paper to her. So, identification on the basis of mobile phone
number as received from PW 10 is not believable because witness clearly
stated that mobile number was supplied to her by police for which no any
receipt was seized by the I.O. in connection with mobile number. The defence
version is that there was some previous disputes between the Student
Organization belonged to accused and some of the witnesses. Because of
earlier rivalry, the members of other Student Union made a false case against
the accused. The accused was apprehended by police from his home situated
at Gauripur under Dhubri district. It is found from the record that accused was
arrested at Bijni P.S. The case is under Sidli P.S. but accused was arrested at
Chapaguri under Dhaligaon P.S. and shown as arrested at Bijni P.S. This
anomalies have created doubt about the actual fact of arrest of the accused in
connection with this case. Learned defence counsel further pointed out that
the place of occurrence as alleged was not fallen under Sidli P.S. or within the
district of Chirang. Actually, P.O. is fallen under district of Kokrajhar for which
initially the 1.0. wrote the Police Station and District of the witnesses as
Kokrajhar which is revealed from the statement of the witnesses recorded U/S
161 CrPC. The PW 2 categorically stated that when he went to Police Station
along with some of the witnesses to lodge FIR, on the way, in a tea stall, he
met the I.0. Nikhil Ch. Ray and according to instruction of the I.0., FIR was
written and he had no knowledge about the contents of the FIR. He only put
his thumb impression upon the FIR. The informant had no knowledge about
the writings of FIR. The PW 3 is found to be not a reliable witness as
mentioned above. Other witnesses heard about the incident from the PW 3.
PW 1, the victim is not a normal girl. Her intelligence is below average as
pointed out by the doctor during the time of examination. So, her evidence
cannot be treated as sufficient to book the accused. Moreover, though
different witnesses stated that they had seen bleeding or dirt on the private
part of the victim, but same was not found by the Medical Officer (PW 18)
during the time of examination. So, evidence given by PW 3, PW 6, PW 7, PW
18

9 and PW 14 that they saw the bleeding is not believable. In the case under
POCSO Act U/S 29 and 30, there are statutory presumptions of culpable
mental state of the accused but these presumptions do not take away the
burden of prosecution to prove their case beyond all reasonable doubt. The
first burden upon the prosecution is to prove their case beyond all reasonable
doubt. If prosecution proved the case, then only accused has burden to rebut
the case or allegation by giving evidence that proof must be beyond
reasonable doubt. In present case at hand, prosecution initially failed to
establish the case U/S 6 POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubt. When
prosecution failed to establish its case beyond reasonable doubt, then giving
of rebuttal evidence from the side of defence does not arise. So, offence of
rape U/S 375 IPC is not proved because sexual intercourse as alleged is not
proved. On the other hand, penetrative sexual assault is also not proved. As
presence of accused and alleged intercourse is not proved beyond all
reasonable doubt, accused cannot be booked for the offence either U/S
376AB of IPC or U/S 6 of POCSO Act. The both points mentioned above are
remained as not proved beyond all reasonable doubt. Accused cannot be

booked for offences mentioned above.

Or ORDER
\
Special Judge 35. Prosecution failed to prove the case U/S 376AB IPC R/W

frialna
Chirangs Kajaigaon

Section 6 of POCSO Act against accused Asman Ali beyond all reasonable
doubt. Accused is acquitted on benefit of doubt and set at liberty.

36. It is found from the record that accused has been languishing
in jail since his arrest by police. So, Superintendent District Jail, Kokrajhar is

directed to release the accused forthwith if he is not required in any other

case.
ads Seized article, if any, shall be disposed of according to law.
38. A copy of the Judgment shall be given to the District

Magistrate, Chirang for information.
i9

39. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 29 day
of August, 2019, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

Oc hyngyoh Mv" fay
(D.J. Mahanta)
2PAs cial A sage,
Chir eR@igaon

Dictated and corrected by me, ~
LAr\
(D.J. Mahanta)

SSP EEt IGE

Chirang, Kajalgaon

  

KEKKE
20

AP N

P. i :

PW 1 — Victim Miss ‘X’ (name is withheld)
PW 2 -—Shri Lakhiram Narzary (Informant)
PW 3 — Smt. Rani Narzary

PW 4 -— Shri Maniram Narzary

PW 5 — Shri Pronoy Basumatary

PW 6 — Smt. Swmkhri Basumatary

PW 7 — Smt. Alep Narzary

PW 8 — Shri Sameswar Narzary

PW 9 — Smt. Joysri Basumatary @ Haithu
PW 10 — Smt. Sochita Borgoyary

PW 11 — Shri Bisti Narzary

PW 12 - Shri Birkhang Narzary

PW 13 — Shri Bidaram Basumatary @ Haithu
PW 14 - Smt. Ranjila Basumatary

PW 15 — Shri Pranab Basumatary

PW 16 — Shri Mukta Basumatary

PW 17 — Dr. Paltanga Kungur Brahma (M.O.)
PW 18 — Dr. Lucky Basumatary (M.O.)

PW 19—S.I. Nikhil Ch. Ray (1.0.)

CW 1-Mrs. Pranami Goswami

CW 2 - Shri Bhaben Das

Exhibi ion):

Ext-1 Seizure list

Ext-2 Statement of PW 10 Sochita Borgoyary U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext-3 Seizure list

Ext-4 OPD prescription card

Ext-5 Medical report

Ext-6 Seizure list

Ext-7 Sketch map

Ext-8 Charge-sheet

Ext-9 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.

Ext-10 Statement of PW 3, the mother of victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext-11 FIR

Exhibit ion):
Nil.
Defence Witness:
Nil.

eeeence Exhibit: hs ' gh

(D.J. Mehdnts)

 
