IN THE COURT OF THE ADDL. SPECIAL JUDGE (E.T.C),
LAKHIMPUR, NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

PRESENT

Sri P.C. Kalita, A.J.S.,

Special Judge(F.T.C),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Special (POCSO) Case No.11/2017.
U/s-366 of IPC, R/w- Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam

-Versus-
Sri Mukul Das, ...... Accused.

APPEARANCE

For the State : Mr. M.Gogoi, Ld. Special P.P.

For the Accused : Mr. , Ld. Advocate.

Date of evidence : 23.05.2019, 03.07.2019, 04.07.2019.
Argument heard on : 05.07.2019.

Judgment delivered on: 05.07.2019.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, inter-alia, in brief, is that informant
Smti. Lakhimai Das lodged an ejahar at Panigaon P.S. alleging that on
03.11.2016 at about 4 PM while her victim daughter (P.W.3) was going
to nearby shop, the accused person Sri Mukul Das by inducing her, had
taken away from the road and did sexual assault with her in the house
of Nipen Das.

Z. On receipt of the ejahar, the O/C of Panigaon PS.
registered a case vide Panigaon P.S. Case No.138/2016 dtd. 05.11.2016,
u/s- 376/511 of IPC and then the police conducted the investigation of
the case and after completion of the investigation submitted charge-
sheet u/s- 366(A) of IPC, R/w- Sec.4 of POCSO Act against the said
accused person.

a The case is received by this Court on transfer for disposal.
On appearance of the accused person before this Court, copy is
furnished to him. After hearing Ld. Advocates of both sides and
perusing the materials on record, charge under section- 366 of IPC,
R/w Sec.4 of POCSO Act are framed against the accused, the same are
read over and explained to him to which he has pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial prosecution has examined as many as 5(five)
witnesses. Considering the stand of PWs and at the instance of Ld.
Special P.P., further prosecution evidence is closed. The accused person
is examined under section 313 of the Cr. P.C. The pleas of the accused
person are of total denial and he has declined to adduce any defence

evidence.

3. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

i) Whether the accused on or about 03.11.2016 at about
4:00 a.m. at village Na-ali Khawli under Panigaon P.S, had kidnapped
(or abducted) the victim (a minor girl under the age of eighteen years),
daughter of informant Smti Lakhimai Das, from the road by criminal
intimidation or abuse of authority or by other methods of compulsion
induced the said girl) with intent that she may be compelled (or
knowing it likely that she will be compelled) to marry against her will
or in order that she may be forced (or seduced) to illicit intercourse or
knowing it likely that she will be forced (or seduced) to illicit
intercourse with you, and thereby committed an offence punishable
under Sections 366 of I.P.C. as alleged?

ii) Whether the accused person, on the same date, time
and place, after inducing the victim girl, had committed sexual assault
on her person, inside the house of his brother-in-law namely, Nriten
Das, and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of
POCSO Act as alleged?
DISCUSSIONS, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

6. I have carefully perused the evidence and the materials
available in the case record. Heard arguments advanced by the Ld.
Advocates of both sides. Now, let us examine the evidence on record to
decide the case at hand.

7. PW.1, Dri Sashi Sonowal (M.O.) stated that on 06.11.2016
he was serving as Medical & Health Officer-1 at Panigaon SHC and on
that day, at about 1:10 p.m., he medically examined the victim girl
(aged about 11 % years), D/o- Sri Chana Das, R/o- Na-ali Khaboli,
P.S.- Panigaon, District- Lakhimpur, on being escorted and identified
by WHG/ Anjali Nath and on examination he found as follows:-

History of assault over chest region. Tenderness over the

chest.

No any fresh injury mark seen over her body.

Opinion:- No fresh injury.

Ext.1 is his medical report and Ext.1(1) is his signature
thereon.
8. PW.2, Smti. Lakhimai Das, informant-cum-mother of the

victim girl, stated that she knows the accused person, who is of her
same village. One day, about three years back, while her victim
daughter was going to school on the way some boys teased her. One
unknown boy of her village informed her about the incident that her
daughter faced. She merely on suspicion lodged an ejahar against the
accused person. Police recovered the victim, sent her for medical
examination and also produced before the Court for recording her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Later on, on being asked, her daughter told
her that the accused person did nothing with her. She does not write the

ejahar herself. She does not know about the contents of the ejahar.
Ext.2 is the ejahar and Ext.2(1) is her signature thereon.

9, PW.3, the victim girl, stated that the informant is her
mother. She knows the accused person who is belonging to her same
village. One day, about three years back, she was going for school and
on the way some boys teased her. Then some unknown boys informed
her mother about the incident and thereafter her mother immediately
lodged an ejahar at Panigaon Police Station. Police recorded her
statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C., sent her to Doctor for medical examination
and also produced before the Court for recording her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. Ext.3 is her statement given in the Court and Ext.3(1), 3(2) and
3(3) are her signature thereon.

10. PW.4, Jitu Das, a co- villager, stated that he knows the
informant, her victim daughter and the accused person. The victim girl
is his niece. One day, about 3 years back, in the evening time while he
was returning home on the way he met the informant who told him that
her victim daughter was missing from home. He then along with the
informant went to Panigaon Police Station and lodged an ejahar. The
victim girl did not say him anything.

11. PW.5, Sana Das, husband of the informant and father of
the victim girl (P.W.3), stated that one day, about 3 years back, at about
4 PM, he on arriving at home from his casual work, came to know from
his wife that his wife had lodged an ejahar at Panigaon Police Station.
He does not know as to why his wife lodged the ejahar. His victim

daughter did not tell him anything.

Appreciation of evidence:

Offence u/s- 366 of I.P.C.
12. The victim (P.W.3) stated that on the day of occurrence

while she was going to her school on the way some boys teased her.
The victim in her deposition nowhere stated that the accused person
kidnapped her. Rather, in cross-examination she (P.W.3), stated that the
accused person was not involved in the commission of the alleged
offence. She gave her statement earlier in the Court as instructed by her

co- villagers.

13. P.W.2, informant, the mother of the victim girl and P.W.5,
father of the victim girl, nowhere stated that the accused person
kidnapped their victim daughter (P.W.3).

14. P.W.4, is a hearsay witness and does not support at all the
allegation of kidnapping.

15. (Offence u/s- 4 of POCSO Act.)

The deposition of the victim girl (P.W.3), is that on the day
of occurrence some boys teased her on her way to school. This witness
in her depositions nowhere stated that the accused person did any
penetrative sexual assault on her.

In cross-examination, rather, she made it clear that the
accused person neither did any bad acts or any sexual relation with her.
Whatever she stated earlier in her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.,
she stated as instructed by her co- villagers?

P.W.3 and P.W.5 are the parents of the victim girl (P.W.3).
They also do not say anything regarding any sexual assault upon their
victim daughter by the accused.

M.O. (P.W.1) found no fresh injury upon the victim girl
(P.W.3). Thus, the M.O. also does not support any allegation of sexual
assault upon the victim girl.

P.W.4, is hearsay witness and his evidence is of no help to
the prosecution case.

It is, thus, seen that the ingredients of offence u/s 4 of
POCSO Act against the accused person, are lacking in the present case.

16. In view of the above discussions and considering all
aspects, I hold that the prosecution has failed to prove the case u/s-366
of IPC, R/w- Sec. 4 of POCSO Act against the accused person beyond

all reasonable doubts. Hence, I acquit the accused person from the said

offences.
17. The accused person is set at liberty forthwith.
18. The case is disposed of accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 5"

day of July, 2019.

(P.C. Kalita)
Special Judge (FTC),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Dictated & Corrected by me:

(P.C. Kalita)
Special Judge (FTC),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by me:
Sri Manish Kumar, (Steno)

APPENDIX:
Prosecution witnesses:
PW.1, Dr. Shashi Agarwal (M/O)
PW.2, Smti. Lakhimai Das (Informant)
PW.3, the victim girl.
PW.4, Jitu Das
PW.5, Sana Das
Prosecution exhibits:

Ext.1- Medical report.

Ext.2 - Ejahar

Ext.3- statement u/s- 164 of Cr.P.C.

Defence witnesses:
Nil.

Defence exhibits:
Nil
( P.C. Kalita)
Special Judge (F.T.C),
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
