CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 26/16

Informant: | Smti. X (the alleged victim).

Accused: Sri Lokeswar Kurmi,
S/o- Sri Kameswar Kurmi,
R/o- Gerekoni Gaon,
PS- Tingkhong,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. UK Saha, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 26/16
G.R. Case No. 3274/15

State of Assam
‘i Vs-

Sri Lokeswar Kurmi

Charges: Under Sections 8 of the POCSO Act, read with Section 354 of the IPC.

Date of evidence on : 28-09-16, 05-01-17, 17-02-17 & 21-03-17.
Date of argument : 03-06-17.
Date of Judgment —_: 07-07-17.

1)

2)

3)

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case that stems from the FIR is that on 06-11-15, while the
victim X was cutting hay, Sri Lakheswar Kurmi (hereinafter the accused)
outraged the modesty of the victim and caught hold of her hand and kissed
her. He also bit her on her tummy and threatened her not to divulge about
the incident to anybody. An ejahar regarding this incident was lodged by the
victim with the Rajgarh Outpost. A GDE 460 dtd. 19-11-15 was registered
and the ejahar was forwarded to the Tingkhong Police Station. The ejahar
was registered as Tingkhong PS Case No. 134/15 u/S 354-A of the Indian
Penal Code (IPC in short), r/w Section 8 of the Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act in short). ASI Arjun Singh was
entrusted with the preliminary investigation and SI Bhaskar Jyoti Phukan
completed the investigation. Charge-Sheet was laid against the accused
under section 354-A IPC read with section 8 of the POCSO Act.

On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
the sides, charge under section 8 of the POCSO Act, read with section 354
IPC was framed and read over and explained to the accused. The accused
person abjured his guilt and claimed innocence.

To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of 8

witnesses and the defence cross-examined the witnesses in extenso to refute
4)

5)

6)

the charges.
SUBMISSIONS

The learned Public Prosecutor Smti. Runumi Devi submitted that this case has
been proved beyond reasonable doubt and adequate punishment ought to be
inflicted upon the accused. The learned defence counsel submitted that this is
a false case foisted against the accused. This case is fraught with
discrepancies and replete with contradictions. It is submitted that there was
delay in lodgment of the FIR. The evidence reveals that complainant was not
willing to lodge the ejahar. An acrimonious relationship was prevailing
between both the parties. The remaining part of the argument will be
discussed at the appropriate stage.
To decide the case in its right perspective, the following points are apposite
for determination.

1. Whether the accused committed sexual assault upon the

victim?
2. Whether the accused used criminal force upon the victim
intending to outrage her modesty by such criminal force?
DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION

The complainant X claims to be the victim. She testified that as PW-1 that the
accused is known to her. The incident took place on 06-11-15. On that day, at
about 4:00 pm, she went along with the accused to the nearby paddy field to
collect hay. Then the accused asked her to bend down to tie the hay, which
they had collected. When she bent down to tie the hay, the accused groped
her from the front side and kissed her and pressed her breasts and bit her
tummy. She shoved him away and the accused repented that he had made a
mistake and he will never repeat such mistake in the future. The accused
asked her not to disclose about the incident to anybody. Then she returned to
her house and informed her mother about the incident. Her mother went to
the accused person's house and informed his wife about the incident. Her
mother also informed their neighbours Rita and Ranjan Chetry about the
incident. After the incident, the accused person’s family members came to
their house and pleaded and apologized to forgive him and so they did not
lodge the ejahar. Later, the accused person spread rumours against her (X)
that she was at fault. When the victim learnt about the rumours spread

against her, she lodged the ejahar which was written by a villager named
7)

8)

9)

Bipul Kalita. The ejaher was lodged on 19-11-15 with the Rajgarh Outpost.
Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is her signature. She was forwarded to the
Magistrate for recording her statement. Ext. 2 is her statement and Ext. 2(1)
and Ext. 2(2) are her signatures. She was also forwarded to the Rajgarh
PHC. Her date of birth is 24-04-1999 and also she claims to be 16 years of
age.

In her cross examination, she stated that she addresses the accused as her
elder brother, because he is her neighbour. The paddy field is not within the
vicinity of her house. The accused is a frequent visitor to her house. Her
father borrowed Rs. 20,000/- from the accused. She has admitted in her
cross examination that there is no explanation for the delay in the lodgment
of the FIR. Her reputation has been marred by the accused who spread
rumours about her character. She further stated that Bipul Kalita, Meghnath
Goswami and others advised her to lodge the FIR. The remaining part of
her cross examination is regarding her omission of certain statements before
the police under section 161 CrPC. The evidence of PW-1 is supported by the
evidence of her mother. Smti. Alu Das stated as PW-2 that the accused is her
neighbour and her daughter is 16 years of age. On the day of the incident,
at about 4:00 pm, while she was in her house, she saw her daughter ‘X’ who
returned from the paddy field, was seated on the courtyard and was
weeping.

When she asked her daughter the reason why she was weeping, her
daughter informed her that when she went to collect straw along with the
accused, he touched her and kissed her and also bit her tummy. Then she
went to the accused person’s house and brought him to her house and
confronted him about the incident. The accused denied about the incident.
On the same day, at about 7 P.M the accused came to their house and
apologized and pleaded with them not to disclose about the incident. So no
ejahar was lodged against the accused. But the accused started spreading
rumours about the moral character of her daughter. So she informed the VDP
members and her daughter lodged the ejahar with the Rajgarh Outpost.

In her cross examination, she testified that they had no intention to lodge
any case against the accused. The paddy field is within the vicinity of their
house. She admitted that her husband borrowed Rs. 20,000/- from the

accused. She denied the suggestion of the defence that to avoid payment of
Rs. 20,000/-, a false case was foisted against the accused.

10) Although the evidence of PW-2 corroborates the evidence of PW-1, yet it can
be deduced that both PW-1 & 2 were not willing to lodge this case against
the accused. An acrimonious relationship between the accused and the
complainant can also be deduced from the evidence. It has been elicited from
the cross examination of PW-1 & 2 that the ejahar was lodged after the
accused spread rumour against the victim and to avenge this, a case was
lodged against the accused. Initially, when the accused begged and pleaded
with the victim not to lodge any case against him, no action was taken
against the accused nor any FIR was lodged. There is admitted delay of
about 13 days which casts a shadow of doubt over the veracity of the victim’s
evidence. There appears to be a motive also to launch a false case against
the accused, because the victim’s father borrowed Rs. 20,000/- from the
accused and this has been admitted by both PW-1 & 2.

11) Let us find out whether the evidence of the other witnesses supports the
prosecution case.

12) Smti. Junmoni Gogoi testified as PW-3 that the incident took place in the year
2015 and at that time, she was the secretary of the VDP of Kenduguri Village.
After 10/ 2 days, the victim's mother Smti. Alu Das went her house and
informed her that the accused outraged her daughter's modesty when both
her daughter and the accused went to collect straw from the paddy field.
Then she asked X about the incident and X informed her that when she went
with the accused to collect straw, accused kissed her and bit her on her
abdomen and touched her breasts. She advised them to inform the police
about the incident and she accompanied them to the outpost.

13)In her cross examination, she admitted that she did not state before the
police that Smti. Alu Das came to her house and informed her that the
accused kissed x and touched her breasts and bit on her tummy. She also did
not state before the police that the victim also informed her about the
incident. Thus, the evidence of PW-3 is an embellishment, because she
herself admitted regarding her omission under section 161 CrPC. Her
evidence is not found to be reliable.

14) Smti. Rupamoni Gogoi testified as PW-4 that the accused is not known to her.
About a year ago, one day, the victim's mother called her and informed her

about the incident which took place 10 days earlier. The victim’s mother
informed her that when the victim went to the paddy field with the accused,
the accused indulged in eve teasing with the victim. This evidence of PW-4 is
also not held to be reliable. It is clear from her evidence that the victim's
mother went ahead and informed her about an incident which took place 10
days earlier. This is not the way to collect evidence. The enthusiasm of the
complainant and her daughter is discernible, because the complainant and
her daughter went and informed PW-3 & 4 about a incident which took place
more than a week earlier.

15) The evidence of PW-5 & 7 also can be considered on the same footing.

16)Smti. Mitali Konch Baruah testified as PW-5 that about a year back, she was
invited by the victim’s mother for a meeting as she was the president of the
VDP. She and Rupamoni (PW-4) attended the meeting which was held in the
complainant's house. In the meeting, the complainant narrated the incident
that while the victim went to the paddy field, the accused outraged the
victim’s modesty and held her hand. Thereafter, Smti. Alu Das went to the
police station to lodge the ejahar and they accompanied Smti. Alu Das to the
police station.

17) Sri Meghnath Goswami testified as PW-7 that on the evening of the incident,
the victim went to his house and informed him that when she went to the
paddy field to collect hay, the accused pulled her hand and tried to outrage
her modesty. She somehow managed to escape from the clutches of the
accused person. Then he (PW-7) asked the victim to inform the police and he
accompanied the victim to the police station.

18) In his cross examination, he testified that the victim informed him about the
incident on 19-11-15, i.e., after 7 days of the incident. Moreover, this
contradiction has been affirmed by the IO. The IO testified as PW-8 that
Meghnath Goswami did not state before him that on the evening of the
incident, the victim X went to his house and informed him that while she was
collecting hay from the paddy field, the accused pull her and tried to outrage
her modesty and she somehow escaped from the clutches of the accused.

19) If we analyse the evidence of PW-5 & 7, it is clear that both PW-5 & 7
accompanied the victim to the police station. PW-7 aggravated and
embellished his testimony which is contradictory to his statement u/S 161
CrPC. The incident took place on 06-11-15 and the ejahar was lodged on 19-

11-15. Smti. Alu Das is the person who went from door to door informing
about the molestation of her daughter. She woke up from her slumber after
13 days. Besides the newly introduced reason of delay in lodgment of the
ejahar, there appears to be no other reason of delay of 13 days. Moreover,
the delay in lodgment of the ejahar was introduced anew at the time of
testifying in the Court. The ejahar does not contain the reason of delay in the
lodgment of the ejahar. It appears that PW-1 & 2 are responsible for
tarnishing the reputation of the accused and not vice versa. There are more
contradictions which will be discussed at the latter part of the decision.

20) Sri Rajib Saikia testified as PW-6 that on 19-11-15, while working as medical
officer at Rajgarh CHC, he examined the victim X and did not find any injury
on the victim. Ext. 3 is the Medico-legal Report and Ext. 3(1) is his signature.

21)It is germane to mention in this stage that no bite marks were detected by
the doctor on the victim’s abdomen.

22) The IO ASI Arjun Singh testified as PW-8 that on 19-11-15, the in charge of
the Rajgarh Outpost received an ejahar from ‘Xx’ and he registered a GDE No.
460/15 and forwarded the ejahar to the Tingkhong police station. The OC of
the Tingkhong police station registered a case being Tingkhong PS Case No.
134/15 u/S 354-A IPC, read with Section 8 of the POCSO Act and entrusted
him with the preliminary investigation and the completion of Investigation
was entrusted to SI Bhaskar Jyoti Phukan. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(2) is
the signature of SI Bhaskar Jyoti Phukan, the In-charge of the Rajgarh
Outpost and Ext. 1(3) is the signature of Prasanta Bejbaruah, the OC of
Tingkhong Police station. Ext. 4 is the printed proforma of the FIR and Ext.
4(1) is the signature of the OC of Tingkhong Police Station. After the GDE, he
took up the preliminary investigation as directed. He met the victim and the
other witnesses in the outpost and recorded their statements. Thereafter he
went to the place of occurrence and prepared the sketch map. Ext. 5 is the
Sketch Map and Ext. 5(1) is his signature. Thereafter, he apprehended the
accused and forwarded him to the Court. He forwarded the victim to the
Magistrate for recording her statement u/S 164 CrPC and also for medical
examination to the Rajgarh State Dispensary. He collected the medico legal
report of the victim. After preliminary examination, he submitted the case
diary to the Officer-in-charge and after perusal of the case diary, SI Bhaskar
Jyoti Phukan submitted the Charge-Sheet against the accused under section
354-A IPC, read with Section 8 of the POCSO Act. Ext. 6 is the Charge-Sheet
and Ext. 6(1) is the signature of SI Bhaskar Jyoti Phukan which is familiar to
him. Ext. 7 is the extract copy of the Rajgarh Outpost GDE No. 460 dtd. 19-
11-15 and Ext. 7(1) is his signature.

23) If we analyze the cross examination of the IO, it is clear that the victim did

not state that the accused had spread rumours that she is of loose moral

character, because the IO affirmed about such omission by the victim. The IO
also affirmed that the victim did not state under section 161 CrPC that the

accused asked her to bend and so she bent.

24) Thus, it is clear that the evidence is replete with contradictions and fraught

with discrepancies.

25) The evidence of the victim does not inspire confidence. The evidence of the

victim and her mother appears to be afterthought of subsequent innovation.

The reason of thirteen days delay in lodging the FIR was not stated in the

FIR. It was introduced anew in the Court.

26)I would like to rely on the decision of Hon’ble The Supreme Court in WD
Dayagude vs. State of Maharashtra [AIR 1977 SC 387] wherein it has

been observed that:

"The story narrated by him in his evidence before
the Court differs substantially from that set out in
his statement before the police and having regard
to the large number of contradictions in his
evidence----- contradictions not on mere matter of
detail, but on vital points------ we do not think it

would be safe to rely on his evidence.”

27) In the instant case also, the reason of prolonged delay has been explained

as tarnishing the reputation of the victim. This has not been mentioned by

the victim or her mother to the IO. The other contradictions are that the

victim did not state before the IO that the accused asked her to bend. These

are vital points which constructs the bedrock of the case, but unfortunately

the victim has omitted to state these vital points to the IO.

28) Moreover, it is apparent that the IO relied on the witnesses garnered by the

victim’s mother. She went ahead and reported about the incident to the

members, president and secretary of the Mahila Samiti and on the basis of

their evidence, the IO submitted the Charge-Sheet. No documents regarding

the age of the victim was collected. There are more contradictions which are
not required to be discussed. The unexplained silence of the victim for so
many days is a major discrepancy in the evidence. Adding to this discrepancy,
there are several discrepancies which has been already discussed in my
foregoing discussions.

29) Recapitulating the entire evidence, it is held that the evidence of X and Smti.
Alu Das does not inspire confidence. Thereby, the accused is not held guilty
of outraging the modesty of the victim and he gets the benefit of doubt. It is
also held that the accused gets the benefit of doubt and he is not held guilty
of sexually assaulting the victim. Although the victim claimed to be a minor of
16 years of age and a student of Class-X, yet due to lack of evidence
regarding her age, it was not plausible to ascertain the age of the victim.

30) The accused Sri Lokeswar Kurmi is thereby acquitted from the charges under
Section 8 of the POCSO Act on benefit of doubt and also he is acquitted from
the charges under Section 354 of the IPC on benefit of doubt.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 7" day of
July, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
10

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 Smti. X;
2. PW-2 Smti. Alo Das;
3. PW-3 Smti. Joonmoni Gogoi;
4. PW-4 Smti. Rupamoni Gogoi;
5. PW-5 Smti. Mitali Konch Baruah;
6. PW-6 Dr. Rajib Saikia;
7. PW-7 Sri Meghnath Goswami; and
8. PW-8 ASI Arjun Singh.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Ejahar;
2. Ext. 2 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
3. Ext. 3 Medico-legal Report;
4. Ext. 4 Printed Proforma of FIR;
5. Ext. 5 Sketch-Map;
6. Ext. 6 Charge-Sheet; and
7. Ext. 7 Extract copy of Rajgarh OP GDE No. 460 dtd. 19-11-15.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
