Page 1 of 18

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SESSIONS CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C
Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

JUDGMENT

44 of 2015
(Under Section 376 of the IPC, arising
out of G.R. Case No. 2228 of 2014)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-VSs-
1. Sri Moti Pator
Son of Late Moida Pator
Resident of Borpam Tinali (Sootea),
Police Station — Sootea
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam.
13/02/2015
27/05/2015, 29/06/2015,
31/08/2015, 30/09/2015,
02/08/2016

03/08/2016.

29/08/2016 & 09/09/2016

14/09/2016.

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. J. Borah, Advocate.

1. In this case accused Sri Moti Pator is put for trial for allegation

of charge u/s 376 of the IPC.

2. The facts leading to institution of this case, according to the
FIR, in brief is that on or about 8 a.m. of 09-09-2014, at village

 
Page 2 of 18

Borpam Tinali under Sootea Police Station accused forcefully
committed rape on the victim Miss “X” and threatened her at the point
of dao stating that if she reported the matter to anyone, he will kill
her. Hence, this prosecution case. Accordingly, an ejahar was filed by
the victim before the Sootea Police Station on 09-09-2014.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the O/C Sootea Police
Station registered Sootea P.S. Case No. 113/14 u/s 376 of the IPC r/w
section 8 of the POCSO Act. After completion of usual investigation,
the O/C Sootea Police Station filed charge sheet vide charge sheet No.
74/14 dated 20-10/2014 u/s 376 of the IPC r/w section 8 of the
POCSO Act against the accused Moti Pator.

4. On being appeared the accused person before this Court, my
learned predecessor-in-Court, after hearing both parties, framed
charge u/s 376 of the IPC against the accused Moti Pator. Particulars
of the charge were read over, explained to the accused to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as
seven numbers of witnesses. After completion of prosecution evidence,
statement of the accused is recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations
made against the accused and the evidence appears against the
accused are put before him for his explanation where he denied the

allegation and declined to adduce defence evidence.

6. I have also heard the argument put forward by the learned

counsels of both sides.

7. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the charge beyond any reasonable doubt hence the

accused is deserved to get benefit of doubt.

8. Per contra, learned Public prosecutor, Sonitpur, submitted that

the prosecution has already proved all the ingredients of alleged

 
Page 3 of 18

charge beyond all reasonable doubt as such required to be convicted

under said charge.

9. Keeping in mind the argument advanced by learned counsel for

both parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.
10. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) " Whether the accused on or about 8 a.m. of 09-09-
2014 at Borpam Tinali under Sootea Police Station
committed rape upon the victim and thereby committed
an offence punishable under section 376 of the IPC?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

11. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the

evidence on record.

12. PW 1, the victim Miss X and informant of this case identified
the accused in the court. He stated that the incident took place at
about 8 months ago. At about 6 a.m. in the morning she went to
Diplonga Division Bagan to attend the call of nature. After attending
the call of nature, she saw the accused there. She thought that the
accused was also going to attend the call of nature. Accused asked her
about the phone number of Aiti Pator. She told that she do not have
the phone number. Thereafter she proceeded towards her house, the
accused also followed her. She asked the accused why he followed
her. The accused asked her to go and thereafter the accused grabbed
her mouth from the back side and put her down on the ground. She
tried to shout but the accused grabbed her mouth and then the
accused removed her clothes. She was wearing a shirt and a chemise
and a skirt but she had not worn panty. After that she tried to run
away but the accused caught hold her leg and again put her lying on
the ground. Thereafter, the accused removed the chain of his Jeans
Pant and committed sexual intercourse with her. The accused

committed sexual intercourse with her for more than half an hours.

 
Page 4 of 18

Her private parts bleeding profusely and the accused also grabbed her
breast and tried to kiss her. Her right side of the neck was also injured
due to nail marks of the accused. The accused also threatened her not
to disclose the matter to anybody otherwise he will kill her. The
accused asked her to go. When she reached home her private parts
were bleeding. On her way to home she met Dipali Pator who is the
sister of the accused. She asked her what happened. She was crying
and told she told her nothing else. In her home she was crying so her
sister Jayanti asked her what happened, she told her everything. Her
father also asked her as to what happen, first time she did not tell him
but while her father enquired more she told him everything. Thereafter
she went to Gaonburah, who advised her father to lodge the case.
Thereafter she went to Sootea Police station along with her father
Bhagirathi, Goanburah Nabin Pator and her elder sister Jayanti Pator
and her sister-in-law Anjana Pator. They requested one lady to write
the ejahar. As per her instruction the FIR was written which was read
over to her. She put her signature in the FIR (Ext.1) and Ext. 1(1) is
her signature. Thereafter she was taken to Civil Hospital where she
was medically examined. She was admitted in Civil Hospital for three
days. She was also brought to the court for recording her statement.
She was also sent to State Home at Nagaon for one day. She was
again brought to the court and her statement was recorded by the
Magistrate. Ext. 2 is her statement recorded by the Magistrate and
2(1) and 2(8) are her signatures. At the time of the incident, she was
13 years of age and she read upto class VI. About 4 years ago she left

her school.

In cross-examination, she has been exposed to long cross-
examination but except giving many suggestion, the evidence as to at
the relevant time the accused appeared before her, after some
conversation while she proceed to her home accused followed her and
after some time accused suddenly grabbed her mouth from back side,
put her down on the ground, while she tried to shout but the accused

grabbed her mouth and then he removed her clothes. Then she tried

 
Page 5 of 18

to ran away but the accused again caught hold her on her legs, put
her down, removed the chain of his jeans pant and committed sexual
intercourse with her for more than half an hour with her, as a result,

her private parts bleeded profusely has remained unchallenged.

13. PW 2, Sri Bhagirathi Pator, the father of the victim, identified
the accused and stated that about 8 months ago at about 2 p.m.
When he came to his house, on being seen his daughter crying asked
her, his daughter informed him that when she went to attend the
nature call in the morning, the accused raped her. She was also
bleeding. He informed the matter to his other daughter. Then he took
his daughter to Gaonburah Nabin Pator and informed the matter. Then
his daughter lodged ejahar in the Police Station. His daughter was also

admitted in the hospital.

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination, the
evidence as to he has been reported by his daughter that when his
daughter went to attend the call of nature in the morning, the accused

raped her, has remained unchallenged.

14. PW 3, Smti Mini Pator deposed that the incident took place
about 9 months ago in the month of “Bhada”. On the day of incident,
at about 8 a.m. she saw the victim coming by crying and her clothes
were torn. When she asked her she told her that while she went near
the tea garden to attend the call of nature, the accused asked her
about her mobile number, while she refused and then the accused
committed sexual intercourse with her by laying her down in the
nearby drain. Thereafter, she along with the victim went to the house
of Gaonburha Nabin Pator and the victim told about the incident to
Gaonburha. Thereafter they went to Sootea Police Station and the
victim lodged the FIR.

In her long cross-examination, the evidence as to while she
saw the victim was crying wearing torn cloths, on being asked, she

stated that while she went to attend nature’s call, accused asked her

 
Page 6 of 18

mobile number and while she refused then, the accused committed
sexual intercourse with her by laying her down nearby a drain, has

remained unchallenged.

15. PW 4 Sri Nabin Ch. Pator stated that he know the accused and
the victim. He was the Goanburha of Bampam Tiniali village. On 09-
09-2014 at about 8 a.m. Mini Pator and victim came to his house and
informed him that when the victim went to attend the call of nature
near Diplonga Bagan, the accused committed sexual intercourse
forcefully with her. Thereafter he went to Sootea Police Station along
with them and their father and the victim lodged the FIR.

In cross-examination he admitted that while the victim told him
about the incident, his wife Gita Pator was also with him and victim
went to his house wearing Churridar. He also noticed injury over the

neck of the victim.

16. PW 5 Dr. Tutumoni Handique, the Medical Officer, has stated
that on 09-09-2014 she was posted as Medical & Health Officer-1 in
the Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at about 7.20
p.m. in the labour room complex of KCH, she examined the victim, 13,
years, female, D/O Bhagirath Pator of village Barpam Tiniali, PS-
Sootea, in reference to Sootea PS case No. 113/14 u/s 376 of IPC r/w
POCSO Act, on being escorted and identified by Woman PC 396
Sumitra Dutta, in presence of GNM Minati Barman. On examination

she found the following:
History of sexual exposer — Exposure present. Recent history.
Menstrual history- regular. LMP — 15 days back.

Identification mark — Scar mark over left temporal region near

left eye.

Height — 143 cm., Weight — 39 Kg, Teeth — 7 in all four
quadrants. She was well dressed and average built. Secondary sexual

characters are in developing stage. Bruise seen on right side of neck

 
Page 7 of 18

(Reddish brown slightly edematous, tender). Vulva, vagina normal. No
injury observed. Hymen absent. Bleeding present. Admitted in M & G
Department, KCH, Tezpur with history of bleeding per vagina.

Investigations advised and reports-

1. Vaginal smear for spermatozoa — no sperm seen.
Done at KCH Laboratory.

2. USG of pelvic organs — normal study. Done at Assam
X-ray Clinic & Laboratory. Radiologist, Dr. P.K.
Barman.

3. X-ray for age determination — Age of the person
under investigation appears to be just above 18
years. Done at Assam X-ray Clinical & Laboratory by
Radiologist — Dr. P. K. Barman. Patient ID AX 21730.

4. Urine for HCG — no report available.

OPINION:

1. No injury observed in her private parts nor any
internal injury observed.

2. The victim is not pregnant.
3. Age of the victim is above 18 years.
4. Bruise over right side of neck.

Enclosure:

1. Report of Vaginal smear.
2. X-ray report with plates.
3. USG report with plates
Ext. 3 is the Medical Report and Ext. 3(1) is her signature. Ext.
4 is the advice slip and Ext. 4(1) is her signature. Ext. 5 is the
laboratory report of vaginal smear. Ext. 6 is the USG report with
plates and Ext. 6 (1) is the signature of Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist,
which is known to her. Ext. 7 is the X-ray report with plates and Ext.
7(1) is the signature of Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist, which is known

to her.

 
Page 8 of 18

PW 5 admitted in cross-examination that bruise seen on the
right side of the neck may also be caused by getting injured by

bamboo twig or other such materials.

17. PW 6 Sri Ramesh Pator stated that he Knows the accused and
the victim. The incident occurred less than one year ago. On the day
of incident, in the morning, he came to know from Gaonburah that the
accused committed rape on the victim. He accompanied the

complainant and victim to the Police Station.

In cross-examination, PW 6 admitted that that Goanburah

informed him over telephone about the incident.

18. PW 71.0. Sri Mohan Chandra Nath has deposed before the
court that On 09-09-2014 he was posted at Sootea Police station as
ASI and on that day, one victim filed an ejahar alleging that on 09-09-
2014 at about 8 a.m. the accused forcefully sexually assaulted the
informant and committed rape on her. The accused holding a dao and
threatened the informant if she will inform the matter to others she
will be killed. Accordingly, O/C Sootea PS Sri Homendra Hira, SI of
police registered a case being Sootea PS Case No. 113/14 u/s 376 IPC
read with section 8 of the POCSO Act and endorsed him for preliminary
investigation of this case. Ext. 1 is the said FIR and Ext. 1(2) is the

signature of the O/C Sri Homendra Hira, SI which is known to him.

During investigation, he has visited the place of occurrence,
prepared the sketch map, recorded the statement of witnesses at the
place of occurrence, sent the victim girl to the Doctor for medical
examination, collected the report and then send the victim to learned
Magistrate for recording the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. on
11-09-2014 and also collected the statement of the victim and the
medical certificate. On 09-09-2014 he arrested the accused Moti Pator.

The place of occurrence is a drain located near a tea garden
and also the house of the victim. Ext. 8 is the sketch map. After
completion of his preliminary investigation he has filed charge sheet
against the accused u/s 376 of the IPC read with section 8 of the
POCSO Act. Ext. 9 is the charge sheet and Ext. 9(1) is his signature.

 
Page 9 of 18

In cross-examination, the PW 7, I.0. has admitted that the

ejahar was received on 09-09-2014 at about 6 p.m. At about 6.10 p.m.
the O/C endorsed him to investigate the case and at about 6.30 p.m.
he went to the place of occurrence.
19. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. The
accused pleaded total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313
of Cr.P.C. The accused is charged u/s 376 of the IPC. Before
discussing the evidence, I would like to see what is the requirement to
prove the charge u/s 376 of the IPC.

20. To brought the charge under section 376 of the IPC,
prosecution must prove that —

“()_ that the accused had sexual intercourse with the woman in
question;

(ii) that the act was done under circumstances failing under any of
the five descriptions specified in section 375;

(iii) that such woman was not the wife of the accused; or, if she was
his wife, she was under fifteen years of age;
(iv) that there was penetration.

21. A careful perusal of the whole case record including the
evidence, it appears that the complainant, who is victim in the present
case file the ejahar on that very day of the incident. Ld. Counsel for
Accused submitted that the FIR does not disclose details of charge

level against the accused. Hence, cast doubt to the occurrence.

It appears that the FIR filed by complainant bears no such
details of outline of the prosecution case. It must be remembered that
FIR is only and initiation to move the machinery to investigate in to
cognizable offence. It has been held in Baldev Singh Vs. State of
Punjab reported in AIR 1996 SC 372 that-

"The FIR is not a substantive piece of evidence, it is only
relevant in judging the veracity of prosecution case and the value to be
attached to it depends on the facts of each case. On the essential of

broad picture need to be stated in the FIR and all minutes details need

 
Page 10 of 18

not be mentioned therein. It is not a verbatim summery of the
prosecution case. It need not contain details of the occurrence as if
were an ‘Encyclopedia’ of the occurrence. It may not be even
necessary to catalogue the over acts therein. None mentioning of

some facts or vague reference to some others are not fatal.”

22. Here in the present case, the FIR was filed by PW 3, who is
herself a victim in this case. It is a fact that the occurrence was such a
heinous, she might have been very emotional and in disturbs the set of
mind that too the incident took place in about 8 o’ clock in the
morning. That apart, in the FIR and in the evidence of complainant
clearly stated that accused threatened him to kill if she disclosed the
matter to anyone. Under the aforesaid circumstances it is not expected
like the complainant who herself is a victim in the case to state more

detail outline of the case in the FIR.

23. Another point raised by Ld. Counsel for accused that the
alleged incident had taken place on or about 8 p.m. of the said 09-09-
14. Whereas, the police station is very nearer to the house of the
complainant but complainant file the ejahar in the evening of that day.
On that count Ld. Counsel for the accused raised doubt to the
occurrence. It is true that the FIR file by complainant does not bear

any explanation as to file it in late.

In State Vs. Gurmit Singh the Hon’ble apex court stated
"The court cannot overlooked the fact that in sexual offence delay in
lodging of the FIR can be due to variety of reasons particularly the
reluctant of the prosecutrix or her family members to go to the police
and complained about the incident which concerns the reputation of
the prosecutrix and the honour of her family. It is only after giving it a

cool thought that a complainant of sexual offence is generally lodged”

In the instant case the complainant herself victimized in the
present case. So, she might have thing about the consequence of filing

the FIR. Beside the FIR and the evidence is very clear that after the

 
Page 11 of 18

occurrence accused threatened her to kill if she disclosed the matter.
Therefore, there is a sufficient implied reasons for filing in the FIR in

late.

24. Learned Counsel for accused submitted that according to
doctor who examined the victim there is no sperm was seen on
examination. Ld. Counsel for the accused again submitted that if the
victim was really committed rape there must have been some sperm in
the private parts of the victim. Hence, it has also raise doubt to the

occurrence.

In this connection, I may mention a case law i.e State of HP
Vs. Gyan Chand, reported in AIR 2001 SC 2075 where the hon’ble
apex court held that "the discovery of spermatozoa in the private part
of the victim is not a must to establish penetration. There are several

factors which may negative the presence of spermatozoa.”

In the instant case it appears that the incident took place at
morning at 8 am and the doctor has examined her at the 7.20 pm. i.e
after about more than 11 hours. Besides, there is an admission of
victim that after the incident she changed her stained skirt. It cannot
be expected for any rape victim to remain without wash or bath for
almost 12 hours of incident. Therefore, merely because no
spermatozoa found in the private parts cannot be ground to reject the

prosecution case.

25. Another point is to be discussed in the present case is that as
raised by Ld. Counsel for accused that in statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C the
victim stated that accused had committed rape on her at 6.30 a.m and
she has been sexually tortured for one and half hours which is quite
impossible for a human being. It is true that the victim stated in her
statement U/s 164 Cr.P.C that she went to attend natures called about
6.30 a.m. Then, accused appeared before her asking her a telephone
No. of somebody then she replied that she do not know the phone

number of said person then the accused again followed her and then

 
Page 12 of 18

victim asked accused why he followed her. Thereafter, accused asked
her to proceeds. While she proceeds accused hugged her, fell her
down in the garden then she raised alarm but no one has come. Then
accused gagged her mouth, also threatened her to kill. Then accused
forcefully put off her skirt though she attempted to flee away but
accused again fell her down by holding her leg. Than accused
committed rape on her. So, definitely sexual atrocities caused by
accused for a period of sufficient time. In view of the positive evidence
of complainant / victim it cannot be stated that prosecution story is

impossible as submitted by Ld. Counsel for accused.

26. Another point raised by Ld. Counsel for accused is that if the
accused really committed rape by felling her down near the Tea plant
of garden she might have sustained some injury but according to
doctor's report there is no such injury found on the body of the victim.
Besides, in a forceful rape there may have sustained some injury of
the private parts of the victim but doctors report was silent as to any

injury of the private part. Hence, raised doubt to the occurrence.

27. As discussed above the victim clearly admitted in her cross
examination that after the incident blood oozing from her private parts
and also stained skirt. However, she changed her clothes before going
to P.S which is quite natural. She also felt pain on her breast as the
accused grasp her breast with force. In statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C of
the victim it is stated that accused had sexually tortured her in
forcefully as a result there was profuse bleeding from her private part
and the bleeding was in such a manner she told accused that she will
die for such bleeding. In medical report, (Ext 3) it is stated that though
there is no injury was found in private part but hymen was found
absent and the bleeding was present. So, about the presence of
bleeding even after one day of incident from the private part of the
victim doctor’s report is very positive. It is not that Ext- 3 is totally
silent as to any injury upon the body of the victim. The doctor's clearly

stated on examination he found ‘bruise over the right side of the neck’.

 
Page 13 of 18

Therefore, in view of the positive evidence of Doctor as to injury and
bleedings from the private part of the victim doctor's report Ext- 3 is
very positive. Therefore, the argument advance by learned counsel for
accused that no injury found of the body or private part of the victim

raised doubt to the occurrence has no force.

28. Another point is raised by Ld. Counsel for accused is that other
than 'gaonburha’' all the witnesses are close relatives of informant as
such the veracity of their evidence are doubtful. It is true that other
than official witnesses i.e. Doctor PW 5, I.0 PW 7 and 'gaonburah' PW
4 all are relatives of the informant. In this connection I may mention a
case law that is Mangal Singh Vs. State of Madhya Bharat AIR
1957 SC 199, where the Hon'ble apex court held that "the
proposition that when the eye witnesses to the occurrence are
interested persons there should be corroboration of their evidence by

independent witnesses, cannot be of universal application.”

It is true that there is no absolute rule that the evidence of the
interested witnesses cannot be accepted without corroboration. In the
instant case there is no any evidence that other independent persons
were present or had seen the occurrence. That apart there is no
evidence that they have any bitter enemity with the accused. So, there
is no any reason to implicate the accused falsely involving their own
daughter in such a heinous crime. Under such circumstances the
evidence of aforesaid witnesses cannot be discarded merely on the

ground that they are relatives of the informant.

29. Another point raised by Ld. Counsel for accused is that there
were many persons resides in and around the place of occurrence. But
prosecution has failed to examine any of the other person other than
of the locality other then the family members of the informant hence,

raised doubt to the occurrence.

Here in the present case in regard to non examination of other

resident of the locality, there is no evidence that any of them was

 
Page 14 of 18

present at the time of occurrence and had witnesses the incident.
Besides, there is no any evidence that the informant has reported the
matter immediately after the incident to any of the other person other
than PW 2, PW 3 and PW 4. It may be mentioned that the I.O, PW 7
admitted that there were no other house except the house of the
accused near the house of the victim. Therefore, non examination of
the person who could not give material evidence is not fatal to the

prosecution case.

30. Inthe instant case, it appears neither prosecutrix nor the PW 2,
father of the victim has been cross examined on any bitter enmity
between the informant/ victim and the accused. PW 3, who is the
sister of victim and also the cousin of accused stated that at the
relevant time she saw the victim coming by crying and her clothes
were torn. When she asked her she told her that while she went near
the tea garden to attend the call of nature, accused asked her mobile
number, while she refused then he committed sexual intercourse with
her by laying her down in the nearby drain. Thereafter, she along with
the victim went to the house of ‘gaonburah’ where victim told
‘gaonburah’ about the incident. PW 3 has been not been cross
examined as to any enmity with the accused, she being the cousin of
the accused as well as equally sister of the victim no reasons to give
false evidence against her own cousin brother involving her sister in
such a heinous allegation. Therefore, there is no any reason to

disbelieve the evidence of PW 3.

31. The incident took place inside the house of victim. There is no
evidence that other then victim and accused some other was present
in the house where incident took place. So, it would be futile to expect
any independent outsider as a witness in the present case. But,
whether with the aforesaid evidence of prosecution accused can be
convicted u/s 376 of IPC.

The prosecutrix evidence clearly establishes the fact that

victim while went out to nature’s call in the tea garden side accused

 
Page 15 of 18

asked her phone number while she denied to give Ph. No. accused
hold her, fell her down, gagged her mouth, forcefully open her skirt,
he also open her pant and sexually intercourse her as a result blood
oozing from her private part. Then she raised alarm but none has
come. While she returned to home she narrated whole story to her
sister and also to her father. If an accused strips a minor girl naked
and then making her flat forcefully on the ground undressed himself
then forcefully committed sexual intercourse to a minor girl definitely

he committed the offense of rape.

32. It is well settled by a catena of decision of the Hon'ble apex
court that there is no rule of law or practice that the evidence of the
prosecutrix cannot be relied upon without corroboration and as such it
had been led down that corroboration is not a sine-quona for a
conviction in a rape. If the evidence of victim does not suffer from any
infirmity and the probability factor does not render it unworthy of
credence as a general rule there is no rule from insist of corroboration
except from Medical evidence having regard to the circumstance to the

case Medical evidence can be accepted to be forthcoming.

33. Here in the present case, the victim stated clearly how she
was committed rape by the accused and after the incident blood
oozing from her private parts, even after one day Doctor found blood
was oozing from her private part. After the incident at home she
narrated the whole incident by crying to her sister and her father and
then she told the matter to the village ‘gaonburah’. The doctors who
examined her in the next day of incident found bruise injury on right
side of the neck and bleeding in the vagina of the victim. Among the
four numbers of opinions opined by the doctor and in No. 1 Opinion
“No injury observed in her private parts nor any internal injury
observed.” The incident took place on 09-09-14 at about 8 o' clock in
the morning and she was examined by the doctor on 7.20 pm of the
said day i.e after about 12 hours. Anyway, doctor, PW 5 no way stated

about the evidence of sexual intercourse of victim. Merely because the

 
Page 16 of 18

doctor did not comment about any sexual intercourse of the victim
cannot be discarded the convincing, reliable evidence of prosecutrix
since her evidence is fully supported by other witnesses including her

father and sister and the village head man and other circumstances.

34. In considering the fact and the circumstances of the present
case, the offence attempt to commit rape has been clearly established
beyond all shadow of doubt. Hence, accused is held guilty for an
offence of attempt to commit rape as such convicted u/s 376 / 511 of
the IPC.

35. Accused is heard on the point of sentence where he praying for
leniency on the ground that (i) he is sole earning member of his family

and (2) he is a married person having about one year son.

Coming to the present case, it appears the accused has
attempted to commit rape a girl who is his one of the relatives. So, no

leniency is deserved.

36. Having regards the commission of crime, and_ the
circumstances leading to commission of crime, I sentence the accused
with Rigorous Imprisonment for period of 3 (three) years and six
months and a fine of Rs. 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred) only in default
R.I for one month for offence u/s 376 /511 of IPC.

The period of detention of accused person, during

investigation, enquiry or trial, if any be set of u/s 428 of the Cr.P.C.

Let a free copy of judgment and accused be served to the

accused.

Let another copy of Judgment and order be sent to the Ld.
District Magistrate, Sonitopur, Tezpur under the provisions of Sec. 365
Cr.P.C.

 
Page 17 of 18

37. Let another copy of Judgment be sent to the secretary District
Legal Service Authority for necessary action as the victim is deserved

to get compensation as per victim compensation Act.

Let the G.R Case No. 2228/ 14 be sent to Ld. committal Court

along with a copy of Judgment.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 14"
day of September, 2016.

(A.K. Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(A.K. Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
Page 18 of 18

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.3

Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4

Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6

Prosecution Witness No.7

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4
Exhibit 5,6 & 7
Exhibit 8
Exhibit 9

'- Victim

‘- Sri Bhagirathi Pator, father of the
victim.

: Smt. Mini Pator.

i Sri Nabin Ch. Pator

i Dr. Tutumoni Handique, M.O.

- Sri Ramesh Pator

- Sri Mohan Chandra Nath, I.O.

EXHIBITS.

FIR

164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Medical report

Advice slip

Reports.

Sketch map

charge sheet.

(A.K. Borah)

SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
