IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE ; DHEMAJI.

Present : Smti R. Bora Saikia,
Sessions Judge,
Dhemaji.

Special CASE NO.05/ 2014
G. R. Case No.580/2014 (DMJ) u/s 354 of IPC

read with section 8 of the Protection of Children
from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

Committing Magistrate: Shri P. Bora,
Chief Chief Judicial

Magistrate, Dhemaji.

The State of Assam

-Vs-
Shri Bitram Borgohain _..... .... Accused.
Appearance :
Shri P.C. Boruah. Public Prosecutor _..... for the Prosecution

Shri K.C. Sonowal, Advocate &
Shri Birendra Gogoi, Advocate ___......... for the accused.

Dates of evidence : 22-1-2015, 30-3-2015, 27-5-2015, 10-8-2015,
10-8-2015, 6-1-2016.

Date of argument : 8-8-2016

Date of Judgment : 20-8-2016.

JUDGEMENT:

(1) The prosecution case in brief is that on 29-8-2014
Smt. Beby Borah of Tanganapara Village lodged an ejahar at Police

Station, Dhemaji stating therein that the accused-Shri Bitram
2

Borgohain, Asstt. Teacher of Tanganapara L.P. School at the time of
teaching, harassed her minor daughter Smti 'X' ( name withheld), a
student of Class-V, by pinching her cheek, breast and private parts. On
the basis of the said ejahar, police registered a case. _ Investigation
carried out as in the usual manner and on completion of investigation
police submitted charge-sheet against the accused to stand trial u/s
354 of IPC read with Section 9 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual from Sexual Offenses Act, 2012 (in short POCSO Act).

(2) The accused put in appearance before the Court of
learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Dhemaji. After furnishing copies of
papers and documents complying with the provision of section 207 of
Cr.P.C., finding the case to be exclusively triable by the Court of
Sessions, the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Dhemaji, committed
the case to this Court as per provision u/s 209 of Cr.P.C.

(3) On appearance of the accused before this Court of
Sessions, having heard the learned Counsels of both sides and
perusing the materials on record , my predecessor-in-chair framed
charges u/s 354 of IPC read with Section 9 (f) of the POCSO Act.
Later on, charge was altered to Section 10 of POCSO Act. On being
read-over and explained the charge, the accused _ pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried.

(4) During trial, in order to prove its case, the prosecution
examined 8 witnesses in all. After closure of the prosecution evidence,
statement of the accused u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. was recorded. In his
statement aforementioned, the accused denied that he had committed
the offence alleged to have committed by by him and pleaded false
implication due to enmity. However, the accused declined to adduce

evidence in his defence.
(5) Points for desision :

The following point is sorted out for just decision of the
case -

(1) Whether before the date of 29-8-2014 at Gyanudoi
L.P. School under Dhemaji Police Station, the accused being a teacher
of the aforesaid school, committed aggravated sexual assault on
Smti 'X', a student of Class-V , aged about 12 years, by touching her
breast, private parts, vagina etc. and thereby he committed an offence
punishable u/s 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual from
Sexual Offenses Act, 2012. ?
(6) Decision and reasons thereof:

I have heard argument advanced by the learned Counsels
of both sides, and carefully scrutinized the evidence on record.
(7) Prosecution has examined the informant-Smti Baby
Borah as PW1, victim Smt. 'X' as PW2, Smt. Dipika Borah as PW3,
Smt. Sangeeta Nandi as PW4, Smt. Dipali Chaliha as PW5, Smti Pinki
Borah as PW6, Smt. Himsikha Bharali as PW7 and the Investigating
Officer Faruque Ahmed as PW8.
(8) PW-1 Smt. Beby Borah in her evidence stated that in the
month of August/2014, the accused touched on the breast and vagina
of her daughter Smt. 'X', inside the class-room. At the relevant time,
her daughter Smt. 'X' was reading in Class-V at Gyanudoi L.P. School.
Afraiding on the act of the accused, her daughter stopped to go to
school. On being enquired, her daughter disclosed before her about
the occurrence. Then, she lodged the ejahar marked as Ext-1 at police
station wherein Ext-1(1) is her signature. Further, she stated that at the
relevant time Smti 'X' was 12 years old.

In cross-examination PW1 denied the suggestion that she

had enmity with the accused and due to that enmity, she concocted this
4

case against the accused just to harass him. She also denied the
suggestion that her daughter did not disclose before her about the
occurrence. She clarified that her marriage was solemnized in the year
2001 and after one year of her marriage in the year 2002 her daughter
Smt. 'X' was born.
(9) PW2 Smti 'X' is the alleged victim. She stated that the
accused is her teacher. While she along with other students were doing
physical exercise inside the class room, the accused touched her
cheek, breasts and private parts ( vagina) for which she felt shame.
She disclosed about the occurrence before her mother. Then, her
mother lodged an ejahar at police station. Police recorded her
statement. Her statement was recorded by learned Judicial Magistrate
also. Ext-2 is the said statement wherein Ext-2(1), 2(2) are her
signatures.

In cross-examination PW2 stated that on 2/3 days the
accused touched her cheek, breast, and private parts. Afraiding this ,
she did not go to her school for 4 days. On being inquired by her
mother, she disclosed about the occurrence before her mother. She
denied the suggestion that the accused did not touch her cheek, breast
and private parts. She also denied the suggestion that as she did not
go to school, her mother scolded her and then she falsely stated that
the accused touched her cheek, breast and private parts.
(10) PW3 Smti Dipika Borah stated that few months ago
from the date of her evidence, one day, she saw Smti 'X' was weeping.
As Smt. 'X' did not go to the school, she (PW3) asked her what had
happened to her, and then Smt. 'X' disclosed before her that the
accused pinched oh her thigh and afraiding this, she ( Smt. '"X') did not
go to the school.

In cross-examination PW3 denied the suggestion that
5

Smt. 'X' did not tell her that the accused pinched on her thigh.
(11) PW4 Smti Sangeeta Nandi stated that as the victim Smti
"X' did not like to go to school, she and paternal aunti of Smt. 'X'
named Dipika asked her as to why she did not like to go to school.
Then Smti 'X' told that at the time of physical exercise, the accused
touched her breast and thigh.

In cross-examination PW4 denied the suggestion that
Smti 'X' had not told before her that the accused touched her breast
and thigh.
(12) PWS5 Smti Dipali Chaliha stated that she came to know
from Beby Borah (PW1) that the accused with evil intention touched
at different parts of the body of Smti 'X' . Further, she stated that Smti
'X' also disclosed before her about the incident.

In cross-examination PW5 denied the suggestion that

she gave false evidence for the interest of Beby Borah (PW1).
(13) PW6 Smti Pinki Borah is a class-mate of Smti 'X'. She
stated that on the date of occurrence she did not go to the school. Later
on, she heard from other boys and girls that the accused did some foul
with Smti 'X'.
(14) PW7 Smti Himshikha Bharali is another class-mat of
Smti 'X'. She had no knowledge about the occurrence.
(15) PW8 S.I. Md. Faruque Ahmed is the Investigating
Officer. He narrated the different steps taken by him in course of
investigation. On completion of evidence, he submitted charge-sheet,
Ext-5 wherein Ext-5(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination PW8 confirmed the contradictory
statement of witness- Smti Dipika Borah (PW3) by stating that the
said witness at the time of recording her statement u/s 161 of Cr.P.C.

had not stated that she noticed black spot on the thigh of Smti 'X'.
6

(16) From the aforesaid evidence on record, it reveals that the
prosecution case rests on the sole testimony of the victim Smti'X'. In
the present case, since the provision of POCSO Act has been involved,
the prosecution requires to prove that the victim was a child witness,
below the age of 18 years on the date of incident. Although no
document has been placed on record by the prosecution to prove that
the victim was below 18 years at the time of incident, the mother of
the victim girl (PW1) in cross-examination clearly stated that her
marriage was solemnized in the year 2001 and after one year of her
marriage in the year 2002 the victim was born . This part of evidence
of PW1 has not been challenged by the defence. So, the fact remains
that the victim girl was born in the year 2002. The alleged occurrence
took place in the month of August/2014. That being so, it can safely
be held that the victim girl was below 18 years of age on the date of
occurrence.

(17) At the stage of argument, learned Public Prosecutor
submitted that evidence of Smti 'X' who is a child witness is clear,
cogent and trustworthy. As such, on the basis of sole testimony of the
victim Smti 'X', the accused can be convicted.

(18) Per contra, learned defence Counsel submitted that the
prosecution case is based on false statement of child witness. The
informant (PW1) filed this case due to previous enmity. As such, the

accused may be acquitted on benefit of doubt.

(19) I have considered the submissions of learned Counsel of
both sides.
(20) Evidence of child witness cannot be rejected per se, but

the court, as a rule of prudence, is required to consider such evidence
with close scrutiny , and only on being convinced about the quality of

the statements and its reliability, base conviction by accepting the
statement of child witness.

(21) In the case of Dattu Ramrao Sakhare Vs. State of
Maharastra (1997) 5 SCC341, it has been held that a child witness if
found competent to depose and the fact is reliable one, such evidence
can be the basis of conviction. The evidence of a child witness and
credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of its case .
The only precaution which the court should bear in mind while
assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be
reliable one and his/her demeanor must be like any other competent
witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored.

(22) In the case of Panchi Vs. State of U.P, AIR 1998 SC
2726, it has further held that- “‘ It is not the law that if a witness is a
child, his evidence shall be rejected, even if it is found reliable. The
law is that evidence of a child witness must be evaluated more
carefully and with greater circumspection because a child witness
susceptible to be swayed by what others tell them and the child
witness is easy prey to tutoring.”

(23) From the aforesaid cases, it becomes clear that while
appreciating the evidence of the child witness, courts are required to
tule out of possibility of child being tutored. In absence of allegation
regarding tutoring or using the child witness for ulterior purpose of the
prosecution, courts have no option but to rely upon the confidence
inspiring testimony of such witness for the purpose of holding the
accused guilty or not.

(24) In the instant case, the accused is a teacher of Gyanudoi
L.P. School and the child witness Smti 'X' was a student of the said
school. Smti 'X' specifically stated that at the time of physical
exercise on 2/3 days the accused touched her breast, private parts,

vagina etc. Afraiding this act of the accused, she stopped to go to her
8

school for few days. On being enquired, she disclosed before her
mother (PW1) about the incident. Then her mother filed an ejahar at
police station. By cross-examining this witness, defence carried
nothing to discard her testimony. Defence could not put any sort of
contradiction and omission to this child witness on material fact. Her
evidence does not suffer from any vice so as to raise doubt upon
authenticity of her testimony. That being so, evidence of the child
witness (PW2) can be relied upon.

(25) Now, the question arises whether the act of the accused
touching breast, vagina, falls within the definition of aggravated
sexual assault.

(26) Under Section 7 of the POCSO Act, whoever, with
sexual intent touches the vagina, penis,anus or breast of the child or
makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person,
or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which
involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual
assault.

(27) Under Section 9 (f) of POCSO Act, whoever being on
the management or staff of a educational institution or religious
institution, commits sexual assault on a child in that institution is said
to commit aggravated sexual assault.

(28) Under Section 30 (1) of the Act under any prosecution
for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state
on the part of the accused, then Special Court shall presume the
existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused
to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the
act charged. The said presumption is rebuttal one and it for the
accused to prove that he had no sexual intent at the time of

committing the alleged offence.
9

(29) Under Explanation of section 30, it has been mentioned
that 'culpable mental state’ includes intention, motive, knowledge of a
fact and the belief in, or reason to believe a fact.
(30) The accused is required to prove that no such mental
state had existed at the relevant time beyond reasonable doubt.
(31) Here in the case in hand , from the evidence of child
witness Smri 'X' and the evidence of her mother ( PW1), this court can
presume that it was the accused who had committed aggravated sexual
assault by touching the breast, vagina of Smti 'X'. It was for the
accused to rebut that neither he committed any sexual incident nor he
had committed the offence by proving to the contrary. But, there is no
rebuttal evidence. Although it was argued on behalf of the accused that
he has been falsely implicated in this case, the accused has failed to
discharge onus of proving that he has been falsely implicated in this
case due to enmity or any other reason by adducing evidence.
(32) Considering the evidence on record, facts and
circumstances , I come to a conclusion that the prosecution has been
able to prove the charge u/s 10 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt. Accordingly, he is convicted under the said section of law.
SENTENCE:
(33) Before passing the sentence, I have heard the accused in
the point of sentence and his statement is recorded to that effect as per
provision u/s 235(2) of Cr.P.C. The accused has stated that he has to
maintain his family. If he is sent to jail, he will loss his job and the
family will face great hardship.
(34) Under Section 10 of the POCSO Act, it is laid down that
whoever commits aggravated sexual assault, shall be punished with

imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less
10

than 5 years, but which may extend to 7 years, and shall also be liable
to pay fine.

(35) Considering all the aspects, the accused is sentenced to
suffer R.I., for 5 ( five) years and to pay fine of Rs. 1,000/- i/d , R.I,
for another 1 (one) month u/s 10 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Previous hajoti period during investigation
and trial, if any, will be set off from the term of imprisonment imposed
on him.

(36) Given under my hand seal of this Court on this the 20"
day of August, 2016.

( R. Bora Saikia )
Sessions Judge,
Dhemaji.

Dictated & corrected by me:-

(R. Bora Saikia )
Sessions Judge,

Dhemaji.
Transcribed & typed by me :-

( B.K. Buragohain )
Steno. Grade-l.
11

APPENDIX:

(1) Witnesses for the Prosecutin :

PW1

PW3

PW5
PW6
PW7
PW8

: Smt. Baby Borah,
PW2 :
: Smti Dipika Borah,
PW4 :
: Smti Dipali Chaliha,

: Smti Pinki Borah,

: Smti Himsikha Bharali,

: Md. Faruque Ahmed, I/O

Victim- Smt. 'X'

Smti Sangeeta Nandi,

(2) Exhibits for the Prosecution :

Ext-1 :
Ext-2 :
Ext-3 :
Ext-4 :
Ext-5 :

Ejahar,

Statement of victim 'X' recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Sketch Map.

Medical Examination Report,

Charge-sheet.

(3) Witnesses for the defence - Nil.

(4) Exhibits for the defence — Nil.

(R. Bora Saikia )
Sessions Judge,

Dhemaji.
12
13
