Page 1 of 8

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 2/14

Informant: Mrs. Mofida Begum,
W/o- Md. Mohibul Khan,
R/o- Amulapatty,
PS- Dibrugarh,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Madhab Koch,
S/o- Late Deben Chandra Koch,
R/o- Bokolia,
PS- Bokolia
District- Karbi Anglong.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. A. Rob, learned legal aid counsel.
Page 2 of 8

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 2/14
G.R. Case No.

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Madhab Koch

Charge u/S 8 PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 19-05-14, 17-06-14, 28-06-14, 04-06-15 & 21-07-15.
Date of argument : 09-09-15.
Date of Judgment —_: 19-09-15.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that on 11-01-14, at around 5:15 pm, when the two
alleged victims, namely, X aged 8 (eight) years and Y aged 5 (five) years
were returning from their tuition class, the accused who was the Chawkider
of a nursing home, lured them inside his room and committed sexual assault
upon them. Amulapatty Police Outpost received telephonic information of a
disturbing situation taking place at Drishti Netralaya, Amulapatty and
accordingly, Amulapatty Police Outpost GDE being No. 2432 dtd. 11-01-14
was made and police arrived at the hospital and apprehended the accused
person. An ejahar was lodged by the mother of the alleged victims. The
Investigating Officer investigated the case and on completion thereof,
submitted Charge-Sheet.
Upon committal, my learned predecessor framed charge under Section 8 of
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (hereinafter PCSO Act)
against the accused person and the charge was read over and explained to
the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined eight witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Mr. A. Rob, learned legal aid
Page 3 of 8

counsel for the defence.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

1. Whether the aged victim was child within the meaning of Section 2(d)
of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(hereinafter ‘the Act’)?

2. Whether the accused person committed sexual assault upon the
victims?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

5) As per medical evidence, the age of the victim ‘X’ was between 7 to 8 years
at the time of examination and that the age of the victim ‘Y’ was between 3
to 8 years, which is not challenged during cross-examination. Hence, it is
established that the victim comes within the definition of child.

Point No. 2:

6) PW-1 Smti Phatima Begum deposed that on the day of occurrence, while she
was returning from tuition at about 5:30 pm with her younger sister, the
accused took her to his house and forcefully undressed her. She further
stated that before the arrival of her mother, the accused showed her his penis
and asked her to hold it, but she refused and the accused also touched her
vagina with his hands, because of which she got pain and was taken to
hospital. During cross-examination, she stated that the occurrence took place
at night/evening in a large building, but she could identify the accused person
who is present in the Court. She denied the defence suggestion that nothing
was done to her. Therefore, the evidence of the prosecutrix stayed unshaken
during cross-examination. In her statement recorded before the Magistrate,
PW-1 had stated as follows:

"When I had gone to tuition that night with my younger
sister- Sahnaz and it was drizzling, then that old man called us and
took us to his house. We met him when we were returning home
from the tuition. That old man stays near that place where the
eye-doctor stays in that room.

That old man took us to his house. He gave us roti to eat.
Not tea. Then one more boy came, like my little sister The old
man gave one roti to that boy- Jadav also.

After Jadav left, the old man asked me to hold his
7)

Page 4 of 8

lengta (penis). He asked me to suck his ‘lengta’ He also asked me
to kiss his ‘susu‘ I did not put his ‘lengta’ inside my mouth. I only
had to hold it with my hand and keep it closed in my hand. Then
he saw my ‘lengta’ (my private parts). He held my ‘lengta( vagina)
with his hands and kept on rubbing it with his finger by spreading
my legs. That old man had also asked my sister to hold the ‘gooti’
of his 'susu’ So Sahnaz was holding that ‘gooti’ (part of males
genitals).
Then she rubbed the ‘goopha’ (hole) of my 'susu(private
parts) so much that it caused ‘ghao’ (rashes/injury) on the
Dhoota (vagina). I told him that I want some ‘'taazi hawa(fresh
air) in order to go out of his house, as the old man would ask me
again to suck his lengta (aaiou taar lengta tu susibo dibo).
Then the old man, my sister and I came out of his house. I
saw my mother come running towards my side. I called out to her
We went home with my mother. Sahnaz told my mother about all
that happened. My mother told everyone that the old man had
given his 'susu’to be sucked by her ‘bachhas(her small children).
My mother wanted to beat that old man with her chappals
(slippers). One person phoned the police. Police came after a long
time. Me, Sahnaz and my mother went to the police station. my
mother told the police that the old man had given his ‘susu’ to be
sucked by both of us.”
Therefore, the evidence of the prosecutrix ‘X’ is also corroborated her
statement before the Magistrate.
PW-5 Dr. Nibedita Shyam deposed that on 2-01-14, she examined Miss. ‘X’ at
AMCH, Dibrugarh and on genital examination, she found the following:
(1) Vulva- A scratch abrasion red in colour and tender the present on right
side of labia minora;
(2) Hymen is intact and admits just tip of little finger.
As per medical opinion, age of the victim was between 7 (seven) to 8 (eight)
years at the time of examination and the age of the injury was approximately
12-24 hours. During cross-examination, the medical officer denied that no
such injury was detected by her. Therefore, the medical evidence regarding

the injury on the private part of the victim ‘X’ also corroborated her evidence
8)

9)

Page 5 of 8

before the Court.

Let us now examine the evidence of the remaining witnesses. PW-2 Smti.
Almina Begum stated that on the day of occurrence, when she was returning
from school with her sister, PW-1, the accused took both of them to his house
and showed his susu to PW-1 and asked her to hold it. PW-2 further deposed
that the accused also pulled the underwear of Phatima and touched her
vagina. During cross-examination, PW-2 stated that she did not know the
name of the accused, but she saw him in the Court on the day of deposition.
No other suggestions have been put to PW-2 to the effect that no such
occurrence took place. Therefore, the evidence of PW-2 has remained
unshaken and amply corroborates the evidence of PW-1.

PW-3 Smti. Mofida Begum deposed that on the day of occurrence, when she
rushed to the tuition home at about 5:30 pm, she was informed that her
daughters had left for home and on returning home, she did not find them
and therefore, returned to the tuition house and at that time, she saw the
accused coming out with her two daughters. PW-3 further deposed that on
being asked, the accused said- "Your daughters came and so I kept them and
also offered them tea.” PW-3 further stated that while returning, her
daughters told her that the accused forced her to touch his penis and the
accused also touched her vagina. She further stated that her daughters
reported her as above. PW-3 further deposed that she returned and asked
the accused, who denied the occurrence and then she slapped the accused.
During cross-examination, she stated that she wrote the ejahar herself. But
later on, she stated that it was written by a neighbour as told by her children.

She denied the suggestion that she had lodged a false case.

10) Since PW-3 has also corroborated that her two daughters, i.e., the victims

were in the hose of the accused and that they reported to her about the
occurrence immediately. Since PW-3 was immediately reported about the
occurrence by the victim, such act of reportage constitutes a part of the same
transactive and therefore, PW-3 can be treated as res gestae witness whose

evidence can be taken into account to corroborate the version of the victims.

11)PW-4 Dr. Ramesh Agarwalla, the Managing Director of Drishti Netralaya,

Amulapatty stated that the accused was working as Gate Keeper at his
hospital, who was allotted a room inside the campus of the clinic. Therefore,

the prosecution version regarding the place of occurrence is also
Page 6 of 8

corroborated by PW-4.

12) PW-7 Sri Narayan Sharma deposed that he knew the accused person and
used to reside in a rented house situated near Drishti Netralaya, Amulapatty.
He further stated that on the day of occurrence, he saw the mother of the
victim giving the accused fist blow in front of Distri Netralaya, Amulapatty
and on being asked, she reported that the accused misbehaved with her
daughter inside the Chowkider room. PW-7 also stated that the daughter
aged about 7/8years, on being asked also told him that the accused
misbehaved with her inside the Chowkider room after calling inside by giving
her a morton. During cross-examination, PW-7 stated that he did not know
the name of the lady from whom he came to know about the occurrence, but
he knew her.

13) The accused person during his examination under Section 313 CrPC denied
the entire occurrence and claimed that he has been falsely implicated by
some other person as they wanted to get him out the job as he is paralised
on his left side. But he did not name any such person, who would be so
interested in getting rid of a Chawkider by making up such a story. The
accused was working in a private nursing home and if the nursing home
authority had felt that the accused was unable to discharge his duties
because of his alleged ailment, it would have been quite simple for them to
terminate his services summarily. I find no credibility in the exculpatory
version of the accused.

14) As is apparent from the evidence discussed above, the version of the victims
who are eye-witness have stood firm and have been amply corroborated by
the victim’s previous statement before the Magistrate as well as by the
evidence of the remaining witnesses including the medical evidence. Defence
could not succeed in extracting any material omission or contradictions in
their previous statements. Therefore, I find that the victims as well as the
other witnesses to be wholly reliable witness whose testimony have
corroborated each other and it is, therefore, established that the accused
person had committed sexual assault upon the victim ‘X’. However, there is no
such evidence in respect of the prosecutrix ‘Y’.

15)In view of what has been discussed above, I hold that the prosecution has
established its case beyond reasonable doubt and accordingly, I hold that the

accused person guilty under Section 8 of the Protection of Children from
Page 7 of 8

Sexual Offices Act and he is accordingly convicted.
Sentence

Heard the accused persons, the learned defence counsel as well as the
learned Special Public Prosecutor on the question of sentence.

The accused person submits that he is ailing and unable to do any work
as one side of his body has partly paralyzed. Besides his wife, his three minor
children to take care of, who are suffering greatly due to his incarceration.

Considering the fact that the accused has been convicted with an sexual
offence against a minor child, I am not inclined to apply the provisions of
Probation of Offenders Act in the present case. Considering the submissions of
the accused as well as the prosecution, I am of the considered opinion that the
ends of justice would be met by imposing the minimum sentence provided by
law. Accordingly, the accused person is sentenced to undergo RI for 3 (three)
years and to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/-, in default, SI for 15 (fifteen) days. The
fine amount, if realized, shall be paid to the guardian of the victim.

Furnish a free copy of this judgment immediately to the convict.
Also communicate copies of the judgment to the Secretary, DLSA,
Dibrugarh and to the District Magistrate, Dibrugarh.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 19" day of

September, 2015.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 8 of 8

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:

1.

8.

ae +S Ww hf

PW-1 Smti. ‘x’;

PW-2 Smti. ‘Y’;

PW-3 Smti. Mofida Begum;
PW-4 Dr. Ramesh Agarwalla;
PW-5 Dr. Nibedita Shyam;
PW-6 Sri Kapil Gogoi;

PW-7 Sri Narayan Sharma; and
PW-8 SI John Pathari.

List of Exhibits:
(3) Ext. 1 Statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
(4) Ext. 2 Ejahar;
(5) Ext. 3 Medical Report;
(6) Ext. 4 Medical Report;
(7) Ext. 5 Sketch-Map;
(8) Ext. 6 Extract copy of GDE; and
(9) Ext. 7 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
