IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::::::: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.10/2017

State of Assam
Versus

Sri Nijendra Narzary __....... Accused

Present: Smti Mitali Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State : Mr M.Kr. Ghosh (Special P.P.)

Ld. advocate for the accused : Mr R.J. Borgoyari

Evidence recorded on : 27.7.17, 15.9.17, 27.11.17, 27.02.18 and
09.4.2018

Argument heardon : 14.11.2018

Judgment delivered on: 20.11.2018

JUDGEMENT

1. The prosecution story in brief is that on 30.5.2017 the informant
Malaya Deka, Chairperson, CWC, Kokrajhar lodged the first information
report before the Officer-in-charge of Kokrajhar P.S. with the allegation that
the two minor girls namely Madhu Munda aged about 16 years and Rekha
Munda aged about 13 years were kept as maid servants in the house of the
accused without any remuneration. Both the girls were physically and sexually
exploited by the accused since the last two years from the date of filing of the
FIR. It is also stated that the complaint was brought before the CWC by Smti

Sanumoni Narzary, wife of the accused. Hence, the first information report.
Special Case No.10/17

2

2. On receipt of the first information report in Kokrajhar P.S., a case
has been registered under Kokrajhar Police Station case No.204/17 under
section 4/8 of POCSO Act and the case was endorsed to the SI Narayan Boro
for investigation. During investigation the I.O. visited to the place of
occurrence and recorded the statement of the witnesses, recovered the victim
girls, medically examined them and after ascertaining the minor age of the
victims, the charge sheet has been filed by the I.O. under section 506 IPC,
R.W. section 4 POCSO Act against the accused Nijendra Narzary. Relevant
copies also furnished to the accused and my learned predecessor framed the
charge under section 4 of POCSO Act, R.W. section 506 IPC against the
accused person finding a prima-facie case. The charges were read over and
explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.
ah The prosecution side examined as many as 12 (twelve)
prosecution witnesses and two DWs including the victims and the informant as
follows:-

PW 1 Ms Malaya Deka,

PW2 Miss Madhu Munda (victim),

PW3 Miss Rekha Munda (victim),

PW4 Smti Sobha Munda,

PWS5 Sri Bishram Munda,

PW6 Smti Sanumoni Narzary,

PW7 Dr Manisha Boro Phukan,

PW8 Sri Sajendra Narzary,

PW9 Sri Budhadev Narzary,

PW10 Sri Lal Mohan Mushahary,
Special Case No.10/17

a
PW11 Sri Najendra Narzary
PW12 SI Narayan Boro,
DW1 Smti Anjima Brahma
DW2 Smti Bindu Brahma
4. The defence took the plea of total denial while recording his

statement under section 313 of Cr.P.C. and adduced two DWs in support of his

 

case.
5. Points for determination:
(1) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on
the minor victims ?
(2) Whether the accused threatened the victims to face dire
consequences on disclosing about the penetrative sexual assault
to others ?
Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:
6. After perusal of the case record and the evidence of PWs and

DWs and hearing argument from both sides the case is decided as follows:-
The first information of this case was lodged by the Chairperson
CWC, Kokrajhar against the accused with the allegation that two minor girls
namely Madhu Munda aged about 16 years and Rekha Munda aged about 13
years were kept as maid servants in the house of the accused without any
remuneration. Both the girls were physically and sexually exploited by the
accused since the last two years from the date of filing of the FIR. It is also
stated that the complaint was brought before the CWC by Smti Sanumoni
Narzary, wife of the accused. The Chairperson CWC, Kokrajhar accordingly
deposed before the court as PW 1 and stated that on 28.3.17 she got

information about sexual exploitation on two minor girls who were recovered
Special Case No.10/17

4

from a tea stall and accordingly they were brought to police station and
accordingly she brought them to her office and enquired the matter, their
Statements were recorded and it reveals from their statements that they also
originally hail from Tezpur. They were brought to Kokrajhar as domestic help
in the residence of the accused. The victim Madhu Munda reported before her
that the accused sexually assaulted her in many times and also threatened her
not to disclose anything about the same to others. She also stated that she saw
the accused while committing rape on her younger sister Rekha Munda. The
other victim Rekha Munda also reported before her that the accused used to
touch her private part at many times and she also had sexual relationship in
many occasions with the accused. The wife of the accused Sanumoni Narzary
also informed to her that the accused/her husband was continuing his sexual
relationship with both the victims but, due to fear she could not disclose this
thing to others and even she requested PW1 not to disclose anything to her
husband otherwise there would be serious consequences. After recording these
statements of the victims PW1 lodged the FIR.

7. From her cross evidence it reveals that after recovery of the
victims she also registered recovery case and Protection Officer also look after
the matter. She also stated that after counseling with the victims and recording
their statements she lodged the FIR. She denied to the suggestion that she
lodged false case against the accused only due to professional dispute as she is
hotel owner and at the time same the accused is fish merchant for which there
was dispute in regard to the price of the fish etc. for which she lodged the FIR.
Thus, it is seen that PW1 lodged the FIR as per instruction received from the
victims and wife of the accused and after enquiring the matter she lodged the

FIR. But, surprisingly the other PWS did not support the prosecution case. The
Special Case No.10/17

5
most vital witnesses of the prosecution case i.e two minor victims gave
completely different statements denying the prosecution case.
8. As per PW2 and PW3 the victims, accused never committed rape
on them nor he sexually exploited them. They gave some false statements
before the court only as per instruction of the wife of the accused. PW3 also
deposed that the wife of the accused is like her sister and hence she herself and
her sister gave some false statement before the police and the learned
Magistrate as per her advice. In their cross evidence they also brought
allegation against the office members of CWC and stated that they tortured
them in the office and was compelled to give statement against the accused.
9. PW4 and PW5 mother and father of the victims deposed that the
accused is innocent and their daughters were not resided in the house of the
accused as maid servants. They also visited to his house only as per family
relation with the wife of the accused.
10. PW6 another vital witness of the prosecution who is the wife of
the accused deposed before the court that she does not know anything about
the incident of commission of any offence by her husband. Her examination-
in-chief was reserved due to her illness but, subsequently the prosecution
declined to record her evidence and hence part of the evidence adduced by
PW6 was accordingly expunged with.
11. PW7 M.O. who examined both the victims. As per opinion of
doctor the victim Rekha Munda might or might have not had sexual contact
and she opined that the other victim Madhu Munda has not exposed to sexual
contact. As per report of radiological the age of the victim Rekha Munda is
about 14/16 years and the age of other victim is about 16/18 years at the time

of examination.
Special Case No.10/17

6
12. PWs8, 9, 10 and 11 also did not support the prosecution case and
as per them also the accused is innocent and has not committed no such
offence as alleged against him.
13. PW 12 is I.O. of this case who filed the charge sheet against the
accused finding prima-facie material under section 4 of POCSO Act. As per
him he started investigation on receipt of the FIR from PW1, Chairperson,
CWC, Kokrajhar visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the
witnesses, examined the victims and after obtaining the medical certificate he
filed the charge sheet.
14. The accused denied all the allegations brought against him and in
support of his case he also examined two witnesses, DW1 and DW2. DW1
Anjima Brahma is sister-in-law of the accused and she deposed that she used
to attend her school from her own residence and she is frequent visitor to the
rented house of the accused at Kokrajhar town. As per her there was no maid
servant in their house. However, she saw Rekha Munda and Madhu Munda in
the house of the accused as they are the relatives to the wife of the accused. In
her cross evidence she specifically stated that after filing the FIR by
Chairperson of CWC, Kokrajhar she made an enquiry with the alleged victims
Rekha Munda and Madhu but, they denied about the same.
15. DW2 nighbour of the rented house of the accused and she also
deposed that two girls were seen in the house of the accused and when she
made an enquiry to the wife of the accused she informed that they are her
relatives. From her evidence it also reveals that she used to visit to the rented
house of the accused which is about 100 meters far from her house but, she

never heard about any such incident or anything bad about the accused.
Special Case No.10/17

7

16. So from the discussion made above, it is seen that presence of
two girls in the rented house of the accused is not disputed. As per the FIR and
the evidence of PW1 both girls were kept in the house of the accused as
domestic help and during that period the accused sexually exploited both the
victims and even he committed rape on the minor victims. But, surprisingly
none other witnesses including the vital witnesses of the prosecution i.e. minor
victim girls as well as their parents did not bring any allegation of sexual
assault or rape against the accused, rather they very specifically stated in their
evidence that the accused did not commit rape on them and what they have
been stated in their statements before the police or Magistrate are only as per
instruction and advice of the wife of the accused. The wife of the accused is
like their sister and hence they simply help her and gave such statement
against the accused only as per her advice and instruction. They not only
brought the allegation against the wife of the accused but, also stated that they
were bound to give false statement against the accused due to torture by the
member of CWC, Kokrajhar. The other witnesses i.e. PWs 8, 9, 10 and 11 also
did not support the prosecution version.

17. Coming to the evidence of DW1 it is seen that both DW1 and
DW2 admitted presence of two minor girls in the rented house of the accused
and on enquiry made by DW1 and DW2 they came to know that the accused is
innocent and they denied the allegation against the accused about sexual
assault and rape on them. The prosecution also failed to rebut the evidence of
both DWs by cross-examining them. Though they admitted presence of two
girls in the rented house of the accused, they completely denied the

prosecution case.
Special Case No.10/17

8
18. So from the above discussion, it is seen that the except the
informant, Chairperson, CWC, Kokrajhar none of the other witnesses
supported the prosecution case. So without any corroborating evidence with
the PW1, her entire evidence cannot be accepted when the victims even did not
support the prosecution. More so, the prosecution could not bring any evidence
that due to some malafide reason the victims as well as their parents denied to
adduce evidence against the accused.
19. Thus, it is seen that the prosecution could not establish the case
against the accused under section 4 of POCSO Act, R.W. section 506 IPC
beyond all shadow of doubt and hence giving the benefit of doubt I hereby
acquit the accused and set him at liberty forthwith.
The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the court on this 20th November/2018 at Kokrajhar court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
Special Case No.10/17

Appendix
The prosecution witnesses are:
1) PW 1 Ms Malaya Deka,

2) PW2 Miss Madhu Munda (victim),
3) PW3 Miss Rekha Munda (victim),
4) PW4 Smti Sobha Munda,

5) PW5 Sri Bishram Munda,

6) PW6 Smti Sanumoni Narzary,

7) PW7 Dr Manisha Boro Phukan,
8)PW8 Sri Sajendra Narzary,

9) PW9 Sri Budhadev Narzary,

10) PW10 Sri Lal Mohan Mushahary,
11) PW11 Sri Najendra Narzary

12) PW12 SI Narayan Boro,

The Court Witness is: Nil.
The Defence witness is:
1) DW1 Smti Anjima Brahma

2) DW2 Smti Bindu Brahma

The exhibited documents are:

1. Ext-1  ... FIR
2. Ext.2 _... Medical report of the victim
3. Ext.3 — ... Medical report of the victim
4. Ext.3(i) ... Charge sheet
The Defence witness and exhibit : Nil
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
