IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sessions (Spl.) Case No.26/2016
U/S 447/354 IPC, R/W Section 12 of POCSO Act

Present : Mr. Dhrupad Kashyap Das
Sessions Judge, Morigaon.

State of Assam

Vs.
Sri Bishnu Sarkar nae Accused
Date of Charge :- 02.01.2017.
Date of recording evidence :- 28.02.2017, 19.04.2017, 21.07.2017 &
05.09.2017.
Date of Argument :-08.01.2018, 20.01.2018, 29.01.2018,
07.02.2018 & 17.02.2018.
Date of Judgment :- 26.02.2018.

Appearance for the Parties

Advocate for the State :- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused ___:- Mr. B. H. Talukdar, Ld. Advocate,
Mr. Satram Das, Ld. Advocate,

JUDGMENT
Facts of the Case :

The prosecution case in brief as reflected in the ejahar that on
06.06.2016 at around 5.00 P.M. the accused Bishnu Sarkar entered into the
house of the informant and forcefully tried to outrage the modesty of the minor
daughter (victim) of the informant, aged about 12 years, a student of Class —
VII. It is also reflected in the ejahar that while the above-named accused tried
to commit sexual harassment upon the victim, she raised alarm and then the

accused fled away from the place of occurrence.

On the next day of occurrence of the incident, the informant went to
Mayong P.S. and lodged an F.I.R. On receipt of the F.I.R., the then O/C
Mayong P.S. registered a case vide Mayong P.S. Case No.93/16, U/s 448/354
(B)/511 of IPC, read with Section 6 of POCSO Act.

The investigation was set in motion. During the course of
investigation, the I.O. visited the place of occurrence. The I.O drew up the
sketch map of the P.O. Thereafter, the I.0. recorded the statement of the
victim as well as other material witnesses and also got the victim medically
examined. Thereafter, the I.0. brought the victim to the learned Court for
recording her statement U/s 164 Cr.P.C. The I.O. arrested the accused person
and produced him before the learned Court, wherefrom, he was remanded to
judicial custody. Thereafter, the I.0. collected the medical report and upon
completion of investigation, he submitted charge-sheet against the above-
named accused with allegation of offence punishable U/s 12 of POCSO Act.
After submission of charge-sheet, the accused person was let off on Court bail.
Thereafter, on appearance of the accused person before the learned Court, he
was furnished with copies of relevant documents as mandated U/s 207 Cr.P.C.
Thereafter, having heard Ld. Counsel of both sides and basing upon materials
on record framed charge U/s 447/354 of IPC, read with Section 12 of POCSO
Act against the accused person, which were read over and explained to the

accused to which he pleaded innocence and claimed to be tried.

2. Point for determination :

(i) Whether the accused on the eventful day i.e. on 06.06.2016 at
around 5.00 P.M. at village Chotogarjan (Bakalibori) under Mayong
P.S. in the district of Morigaon, committed criminal trespass by
entering into the compound of the complainant with intent to commit
an offence ?

(ii) Whether the accused on the same day, time and place used criminal
force to the minor daughter of the complainant intending to outrage
her modesty ?

(iii) | Whether the accused on the same day, time and place committed
sexual harassment as defined U/s 11 of the POCSO Act, upon the

minor daughter of the complainant ?
3. In this case prosecution has examined as many as 6 (six) PWs
including the most material witnesses of this case. After completion of
recording the evidence of the PWs, the accused was subjected to examine
as warranted U/s 313 Cr.P.C. with respect to the incriminating materials
that surfaced against him in the evidence on record. The accused declined

to adduce defence evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

5. DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

In this case, it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful
day the above-named accused by entering into the house of the informant
tried to commit sexual assault upon the minor daughter (victim) of the

informant.

(a) To prove this fact, the prosecution has examined PW-1 (Sri Parimal
Biswas), the informant. He in his evidence has stated that the victim Miss —
X (real name is kept concealed to save her from infamy) is his daughter. He
knows the accused who is from their village. According to PW-1, the alleged
incident occurred about 8/9 months ago. At the time of occurrence of the
incident, his daughter was 12 years old. PW-1 further stated that on the
date of occurrence of the incident, in the evening, he was thrashing rice
from paddy at a little distance from his house. While he was working, his
daughter Miss - X rushed to him and told him that the accused person by
illegally entering into her room outraged her modesty. She (his daughter)
told him that the accused had pressed her breast and removed her clothes
forcefully. She also told him that while the accused was doing so, she raised
hue and cry, and at that time, her aunt Jayarani Biswas saw the incident
and tried to catch the accused, but the accused ran away from that place
by riding a bicycle which was standing outside. His daughter further told
him that she and her aunt ran after the accused to catch him but the
accused fled away from that place. PW-1 further stated that his daughter

was crying at that time. So, he immediately came back home with his
daughter. After coming back home, he came to know the entire incident,
and thereafter, he directly went to the house of the accused in search of
him. PW-1 further stated that he reported and complained the matter to the
family members of the accused person who was absent at that time in his
house. A village meeting was conducted on the same night, but no positive
result was found. Thereafter, on the next day morning, he went to Mayong
Police Station to lodge an ejahar against the accused person. PW-1 further
stated that he could not trace out the accused person. PW-1 proved Ext. 1
the ejahar, whereupon Ext. 1(1) is his signature. PW-1 further stated that
Police visited his house and recorded his statement. Police also recorded the
statement of his daughter. Police brought his daughter for medical
examination. PW-1 further stated that his daughter was also produced
before the Magistrate for recording her statement. Police also took a copy
of birth certificate of his daughter. PW-1 further stated that he handed over
the Xerox copy of the birth certificate of the original which is also brought
today before this Court. PW-1 proved Ext. 2 the copy of the birth certificate
of his daughter.

In cross-examination, PW-1 stated that he went to the Police Station
and lodged the case on the next day of the occurrence of incident, at about
11.00 A.M. to 12.00 Noon. PW-1 stated that the ejahar was not drafted by
him and he forgot, who wrote the ejahar. PW-1 further stated that the
ejahar was written as per his instruction and it was read over to him. He did
not mention regarding the village meeting in the ejahar. PW-1 further
stated that the alleged incident occurred at about 5.00/6.00 P.M. on the
date of occurrence. He did not mention the reason as to why there was
little delay in lodging the ejahar. PW-1 further stated that at first, his
daughter Miss-X rushed to him and reported about the incident, and
thereafter, her aunt Jayarani Biswas also came to him. PW-1 further stated
that Jayarani Biswas did not directly tell him about the incident. But, she
(Jayarani Biswas) told about the incident to his wife. PW-1 further stated
that his wife was also present with him at the time of thrashing paddy. PW-
1 further stated that his daughter reported him after 6/7 minutes of the
occurrence of incident. PW-1 further stated that after arriving at his house,

he found some of the children of their neighbors, but he did not find any
other matured person from the neighborhood. PW-1 further stated that
there are near about 20 families near his house. PW-1 denied all the

suggestions put to him by the defence.

(b) PW-2 (Miss - X), the victim, stated in her evidence that the informant
of this case is her father. She knows the accused as he resides in their
village. The alleged incident occurred about 9/10 months ago. At that time,
she was 12 years old and studying in class VII standard. PW-2 further
stated that on the date of occurrence of the incident, she was making
preparation for prayer. Then, the accused person came to their house and
asked her for a glass of water. Accordingly, she offered a glass of water.
The accused had drunk half of the water of the glass and threw out the
remaining portion. Thereafter accused again asked her for another glass of
water and she did the same. The accused for the third time again asked her
for a glass of water and when she offered him again the glass of water the
accused caught hold her hands, and thereafter, he tried to remove her
wearing cloths. PW-2 further stated that she was wearing a “Ganjee and a
skirt”. As soon as the accused tried to remove her clothes, she started
crying. However, the accused put his hand on her chest and also
threatened her by showing a “Dao”. Then, she shouted for help and called
her mother. Upon hearing her crying and shouting, her aunt “Khuri” rushed
to the place immediately. Then, on seeing her aunt the accused ran away
from that place by taking his bicycle. Thereafter, she told the entire incident
to all her family members. PW-2 further stated that her father brought her
to Police Station and lodged the case against the accused. Police asked her
about the incident. PW-2 further stated that Police later on produced her
before the Magistrate where her statement was recorded. PW-2 further
stated that she stated the same thing before the Magistrate as stated in her
evidence. PW-2 proved Ext. 3 her statement before the Magistrate,
whereupon Ext. 3(1), Ext.3(2) and Ext. 3(3) are her signatures.

In cross-examination, PW-2 stated that the house of the accused is
situated at a distance of about 100 mts. from their house. The accused
never came to their house prior to the occurrence of the incident. PW-2

further stated that at the time of occurrence of the incident, her other
family members were not present in the house. PW-2 further stated that
Nimai, Kusum, Santu, Aran etc. are her neighbors. PW-2 further stated that
as soon as the accused caught hold her hand, he cried as well as shouted.

PW-2 denied all the suggestions put to her by the defence.

(c) PW-3 (Smti. Jayarani Biswas) stated in her evidence that she knows
the informant, his daughter Miss — X and the accused, as they are from
their village. According to her, the incident occurred in the last year. PW-3
further stated that at the time of occurrence of the incident, the victim was
12 years old. PW-3 further stated that on the date of occurrence of the
incident, in the evening, she heard shouting of the victim at her house.
Upon hearing her (the victim) shouting, she immediately rushed to the
house of the victim and after arrival at the house of the victim, she had
seen the accused person embracing the victim girl. PW-3 further stated that
the accused also removed her (victim) clothes and when she went to the
house of the victim girl, the accused person ran away from that place.
Thereafter, the victim girl caught hold her and started crying. PW-3 further
stated that on being asked, the victim girl told her that the accused came to
her house to have a glass of water and then the accused started to do
illegal act with her.

In cross-examination, PW-3 stated that she was in her house when
the incident occurred. Her house is adjacent to the house of the victim girl.
PW-3 further stated that she heard the shouting of victim girl. PW-3 further
stated that the parents of the victim girl were absent at their house at the
time of occurrence of the incident. PW-3 denied all the suggestions put to

her by the defence.

(d) PW-4 (Sri Parasuram Biswas) stated in his evidence that he knows
the informant, his daughter Miss - X and the accused, as they are from their
village. According to PW-4 the incident occurred in the last year. PW-4
further stated that on the next day of the occurrence of incident, he heard
from their village people that the accused person committed some illegal

act with the daughter of the informant.
In cross-examination, PW-4 stated that he did not see the

occurrence of the incident.

(e) PW-5 (Smti. Anjali Biswas) stated in her evidence that the informant
is her husband and the victim is her daughter. She knows the accused
person who is from their village. According to her, the incident occurred in
the last year and at the time of occurrence of the incident the victim was
about 12 years old. PW-5 further stated that on the date of occurrence of
the incident, in the evening hour, she was working near her house. PW-5
further stated that at the time of occurrence of the incident, she was not
present at her house, as she processing paddy at a little distance from her
house. Then, after sometime her daughter came towards her by crying and
on being asked, her daughter told her that the accused person came to
their house and asked her a glass of water. Thereafter, accused person
again asked for another glass of water and then by way of inducement he
entered into the room of their house and embraced her by removing her
clothes. PW-5 further stated that when the accused person caught hold her
daughter, her daughter started shouting and upon hearing her shouting her
aunt Jayarani Biswas who resides near their house immediately rushed to
the place of occurrence and then the accused on seeing her ran away from
the P.O. PW-5 further stated that her daughter also told her that she cried
by holding her aunt. PW-5 further stated that her daughter narrated the
incident to her and at that time she (her daughter) was crying. PW-5
further stated that she told about the incident to police. Later on, her
husband lodged the case.

In cross-examination, PW-5 stated that the victim is her elder
daughter and at the time of occurrence of the incident her daughter was 12
years old. Jayarani is her sister-in-law. PW-5 further stated that she did not
see the occurrence of the incident. PW-5 denied all the suggestions put to

her by the defence.

(f) PW-6 (Sri Rebot Chandra Baruah, the I.O.) stated in his evidence
that on 07.06.2016, he was posted at Mayong Police Station as Attached
Officer. On that day, an ejahar was lodged by complainant Parimal Biswas

at their police station stating that, on 06.06.2016, in the evening, the
accused Bishnu Sarkar by illegally entering into his house made an attempt
to commit immoral act with his minor daughter. Then, he was endorsed to
investigate the case. Accordingly, he went to the place of occurrence and
drew up the sketch map of the P.O. PW-6 proved Ext. 4 the sketch map,
whereupon Ext. 4(1) is his signature. PW-6 further stated that he recorded
the statement of the witnesses at the place of occurrence. He also
examined the victim. PW-6 further stated that he sent the victim for medical
examination. Thereafter, he brought the victim before the Magistrate to
record her statement. PW-6 further stated that initially the accused was
absconding. However, the accused was traced out and he was arrested.
PW-6 further stated that he collected all the relevant documents in
connection with this case. He (PW-6) also collected the injury report of the
victim. PW-6 further stated that there was no injury of the victim as per the
injury report. PW-6 proved Ext. 5 the medical report which was collected by
him. PW-6 further stated that finally, upon getting materials against the
accused, he submitted charge sheet against the accused U/s 12 of POCSO
Act. PW-6 proved Ext. 6 the charge sheet, whereupon Ext. 6(1) is his
signature.

In cross-examination, PW-6 stated that the incident took place on
06.06.2016, in the evening, and the ejahar was lodged on the next day at
11.20 A.M. PW-6 further stated that he started his investigation as soon as
he received the ejahar. PW-6 further stated that he recorded the statement
of the witnesses on 07.06.2016 and the victim was also examined on that
day. PW-6 further stated that the distance between the house of accused
and the victim was about /2 Km. PW-6 further stated that he recorded the

statement of independent witnesses.

It is a well settled principle of law that conviction can be founded on
the testimony of prosecutrix alone unless there are compelling reasons for
seeking corroboration. The testimony of victim of sexual assault is vital
unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate looking for
corroboration of her statement. The well settled principle of law is that the
corroboration as condition for judicial reliance on the testimony of the
prosecutrix/victim is not a requirement of law but a guidance of prudence

under given circumstances, where the testimony of a victim inspire full
confidence and is found to be reliable, then Court should not find difficulty
in acting the testimony of victim of sexual assault alone to convict an

accused.

In the instant case in hand, the victim being the injured witness is also
the eye witness of entire occurrence of the alleged incident since it
happened with her. During evidence, she completely narrated the
prosecution case that as to how the accused person intended to outrage
her modesty by trespassing into her house and unlawfully remaining there
with bad intention for the purpose of committing offence. The intention of
the accused for such criminal trespass into the house of the victim was
none but to attack, insult or annoy her. The intention of the accused is also
reflected by his activities since he had repeatedly asked for glass of water
for three times after throwing away the water of the glass once after
another and finally when the victim had offered another glass of water for
the third time; he caught hold her hands and tried to remove her wearing
clothes. The accused also put his hand on her chest and when the victim
started to cry for such illegal act of the accused, he threatened her by
showing a dao. However, the victim was fortunate enough as her cry was
heard by her aunt (PW-3), who arrived at the place of occurrence
immediately after hearing her shouting and then the accused on seeing her
aunt fled away from the place in a bicycle. The testimony of the victim has
inspired full confidence upon the Court and her version was also so
corroborated by her aunt (PW-3), who arrived at the place of occurrence
when the accused was outraged her modesty. PW-3 is a direct evidence,
who had heard the shouting and cry of the victim and she appeared at the
place of occurrence immediately after hearing shouting of the victim. As
soon as PW-3 arrived at the place of occurrence, she saw the accused
outraging the victim girl by removing her clothes and on seeing PW-3 the
accused fled away from the place. Hence, being the eye witness of the
occurrence of the incident these witnesses displayed the prosecution case

confidently which remained unrebutted during their cross-examination.

After the incident, the victim girl narrated the entire incident to her

parents as soon as she found them. Therefore, the parents of the victim
10.

11.

10

also described the incident thoroughly without any hiccups. The mother of
the victim (PW-5) though not seen the occurrence of the incident but found
her daughter crying when she met her daughter just after occurrence of the

incident.

Under the aforesaid facts and circumstances no suspicion arises as
to the version of the victim with regard to the alleged incident which is
supported by PW-3 and other witnesses. The testimony of the victim girl
and the other vital witness PW-3 remained unshaken during their cross-
examination. On overall perusal of the materials on record, prosecution has
seen to have established the case beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, the
accused person is found guilty for the offences punishable U/s 447/354 IPC,
read with Section 12 of POCSO Act.

After finding the accused person guilty under the aforesaid provision
of law, he has been heard on the point of sentenced U/s 235 (2) of Cr.P.C.
The accused person during hearing on sentenced has pleaded innocence
denying his allegation and has also prayed for leniency in terms of awarding

sentenced.

SENTENCE

On being heard the accused on sentenced, the accused person is
convicted U/s 447 IPC and sentenced him to undergo R.I. for 3 (three)
months and shall also be liable to pay fine of Rs.500/- (Rupees five
hundred), in default thereof to further undergo S.I. for 1 (one) month. The
accused person is also convicted U/s 354 IPC and sentenced him to
undergo R.I. for 1 (one) year and shall also be liable to pay fine of
Rs.10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand), in default thereof to further undergo
S.I. for 3 (three) months. The accused person is further convicted U/s 12 of
POCSO Act and sentenced him to undergo R.I. for 1 (one) year and shall
also be liable to pay fine of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand), in default
thereof further undergo S.I. for 3 (three) months. All the sentences are run

concurrently.
11

The period of sentenced to which the convict already undergone

shall be set off.

12. In this case, the victim girl deserves victim compensation U/s 357

(A) Cr.P.C. The D.L.S.A., Morigaon — shall

compensation to be awarded to the victim girl.

decide the quantum of

13. This Court further directs that in case the fine amounts are realized

from the convict, the same shall be disbursed to the victim girl as damages.

14. A copy of the Judgment and order shall be furnished to the accused

at free of cost. A copy of the Judgment and order shall also be furnished to

the District Magistrate, Morigaon for information and to the Secretary,

DLSA, Morigaon for compliance.

Judgment is delivered and pronounced in the open Court on this

26" day of February, 2018 under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me

APPENDIX

. Prosecution witness
. PW-1 :- Sri Parimal Biswas,
PW-2 :- Miss Sangita Biswas,
PW-3 :- Smti. Jayarani Biswas,
PW-4 :- Sri Parasuram Biswas,
PW-5 :- Smti. Anjali Biswas,
PW-6 :- Sri Rebot Chandra Baruah,
. Defence witness : Nil.

. Prosecution Exhibit :
. Ext.1 :- the ejahar.

reo Daan KF WN F |

Sessions Judge

Morigaon.
0 AO MN KRW NN

12

. Ext.2 :- the birth certificate of the victim.

. Ext.3 :- the statement of the victim recorded U/s 164 Cr.P.C.
. Ext.4 :- the sketch map.

. Ext.5 :- the medical report.

. Ext.6 :- the charge-sheet.

. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Morigaon.
