Page 1 of 17

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE DARRANG,MANGALDAI.

Spl.(POCSO) Case No.15 of 2016
(U/S :376(2)(i) I.BC. R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act).

(Committed by Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Mangaldai in G.R.case No.1628/2015).

State
Versus
Habijuddin @ Habej Ali
S/O: Sayed Ali
Vill-No,1l Mazgaon
PS-Dalgaon, Dist-Darrang.
-Accused.

PRESENT: Sri P.Saikia,A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge.
Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPERANCE:

For the Prosecution : Sri P. Sarma, P.P.,Mangaldai
AND

For the accused : Hitesh Deka, Advocate.

Evidence recorded on :20/01/17,30/03/17, 03/02/17, 02/03/17,
30/03/17, 12/04/17, 18/05/17, 11/07/17

Argument heard on :13/11/2017

Judgment delivered on: 11/12/2017.
Page 2 of 17

UDGMENT.

1. Briefly stated the prosecution case is that on 08/04/2016 the
informant Suruj Ali lodged a written report with the I/C, Daipam Police
Outpost under Dalgaon Police Station alleging inter alia that on
07/04/2016 at around 1 p.m. while his minor daughter (real name is
withheld herein after referred to as victim girl ) was going to the field
from her house where her mother was doing cultivation at that time
the accused intercepted her on the way and gagged her and after
gagging her mouth dragged her towards the nearby paddy field and
forcefully brought her down on the ground and tried to sexually
ravish her. But one person who was standing nearby after having
seen the incident came forward and in the meantime the accused fled

away.

2. On the basis of the written report the I/C, Daipam Police Outpost
recorded GD entry No.139 dated 08/04/16 and forwarded the same to
O/C, Dalgaon Police Station for registering a case under proper
section of law. Wheanwhile the I/C, Daipam Outpost has taken up the
investigation of the case. On receipt of the written report and treating
the same as an FIR the Officer-in-charge, Dalgaon P.S. registered the
case vide Dalgaon PS case No.241/16 dated 08/04/16 U/S 376 IPC
read with Section 4 of POCSO Act and endorsed the case for
investigation I/C , Daipam Police Outpost who has_ already
commenced the investigation of the case. In course of investigation
the 1.0. visited the place of occurrence, prepared a sketch map
thereof and recorded the statement of the available witnesses U/S
161 Cr.P.C. 1.0. has also got the statement of the victim recorded U/S
164 Cr.P.C.and nabbed the accused. The victim was also sent for
medical examination and collected her medical examination report.

After completion of the investigation the 1.0. having found a prima-
Page 3 of 17

facie case laid the charge sheet for the offence U/S 376(i) IPC read
with Section 4 of the POCSO Act for trial of the accused.

. On receipt of the charge sheet, Special(POCSO) case No.15/16 was
registered and ensured the presence of the accused for trial in
obedience to the process of the court.

. In consideration of framing charge my learned predecessor-in-Office
having found a prima-facie case and sufficient ground for presuming
that the accused had committed the offence U/S 376(2)(i) IPC read
with Section 4 of POCSO Act drew up a formal charges under the said
section of law against the accused and the charge so framed on
being read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded
not guilty and claimed to stand trial.

. In order to sustaine the charge, the prosecution has examined in all
7(seven) witnesses including one court witness and also relied on

some documents marked as exhibits appended with the case record.

. On closure of the prosecution evidence the accused was examined
U/S 313 Cr.P.C.. The accused has taken a plea of complete denial and
led no evidence for his defence.

. In the light of the above facts and circumstances of the case, formal
charge was framed against the accused as reproduced herein below:
(i)Whether the accused on 07/04/2016 at No.1 Majgaon at 1 p.m.
under Dalgaon forcefully committed rape on Miss Sujeda Khatun
daughter of complainant Suruj Ali who is six years of Age while she
going tyo field, as alleged U/S 376(2)(i) IPC read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act?
8.

10.

ll.

Page 4 of 17

| have heard argument placed by the learned counsel of both the
sides and also carefully gone through the entire evidence on record
and material inducted therewith to arrive at my finding in the case.

DISCUSSION, DECISOON AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

PW1 is Suruj Ali. He is the first informant of the case. According to his
evidence about 6/7 months ago he along with his wife were working
in the field. Their 8 years old victim daughter was supposed to go to
the field with them, but she remained in the house. After returning
from the field on being asked their daughter stated to them that the
accused Habej had committed sexual intercourse with her daughter
in the maize field on the way to their working field. Thereafter, on the
Same day he had lodged one FIR at Daipam Outpost and he has
marked the FIR as Exhibit 1 and exhibit 1(1) is his signature. The
scribe of the FIR read over the contents of the FIR to him and after
finding the same as correct he put his signature.

In cross examination, he has disclosed that he knows that in the FIR
it is written that the accused by gagging her mouth of his
daughter(victim) tried to commit rape on her and when one person
approached the accused fled away. But he had not seen the
occurrence. He has denied the defence suggestion that his victim
daughter has not stated about the occurrence to him.

In further cross examination, this witness has revealed that he lodged
the FIR as per the words of his victim daughter. On the day of
occurrence he was working’ in the field which was situated at a
distance of more than one furlong from his home. The place of
occurrence was situated in between their home and the field where
he was working along with his wife. In the evening they returned from
the field. While they were in the field no one had informed him about
12.

13.

Page 5 of 17

the incident. However, while they were returning from the field on the
way one Barkat Ali informed about the incident, but he had not
named the accused. In the FIR it is written that the accused
attempted to commit rape upon his victim daughter. But in the FIR he
has not mentioned that when one neighbouring people approached
the accused then he fled away. He had not’ talked with Asma
regarding the incident which had occurred in the land belonging to
Barkat Ali. His daughter had not suffered any injury on the other part
of the body. Regarding the incident he had given ‘ bichar’ to his

a

village people Shahid. The ‘ bichar’ did not take place as Swahid
stated that it was matter between the congress and AIUDF. His victim
daughter narrated about the incident to him. About 74 years prior to
the present incident one FIR was lodged against one Kamaruddin for
committing rape upon his same victim daughter. The said case was
compromised between them and in the instant case also he had filed
one Aposnama(compromise petition) in the form of affidavit. He has
denied the defence suggestion that he had also mentioned in the
compromise petition that the present case was lodged against the

accused due to previous enmity at the instigation of other. No
bichar’ took place in the village.

PW2 is Sujeda Khatun. Her age was disclosed as 9 years at the time
of recording her evidence. Being a minor witness some questions
were put on her as to her capacity of understanding and having found
this witness well oriented besides capable of understanding her
evidence was recorded without swearing oath to her.

It is her evidence that the accused is known to her and the incident
occurred on 7" day of the month. Today he does not remember the
month of the incident. On the day of incident her parents was
working in the field. She was proceeding to her parents from her
home alone and on the way Hebej called her and took her to the
14.

13.

Page 6 of 17

maize field. There he removed her pent and penetrated his penis into
her private part as a result she sustained injury on her private part.
She cried due to the incident. Hebej then told her that he would give ‘
biscuit and Rs.20/- to her. Thereafter, she returned to her home. After
return of her parents she narrated the fact before them. Her
statement was recorded by the Magistrate. She has proved and
marked her statement recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. as ext.2, ext.2(1) is
her signature. She was also medically examined.

In cross examination, it is her evidence that the distance from their
home to the maize field is not much. She has denied the defence
suggestion that she has not stated in her statement U/S 161 Cr.P.C.
that Habej Ali has not removed her pent and has not penetrated his
penis into her private part. She has denied defence suggestion that in
her statement U/S 164 that she had given her statement before the
Magistrate on being tutored. After return of her parents from the
cultivation field in the evening she narrated the fact to them. After
returning from the maize field till the arrival of her parents she stayed
with her grandmother and her younger sister, But she has not
disclosed the fact to her grant mother. She has also denied defence
suggestion that the accused has not stated to her that he would give
biscuit and Rs.20/- to her and that she was tutured to say her
statement for making a case against the accused. She has also
denied the defence suggestion that she had not cried when the
accused removed her pent and committed penetration by using force.

PW3 Meherun Nessa. Her evidence does not contain any incriminating
material at all in support of the case. She has only disclosed in her
evidence that both the victim and accused are known to her and she
heard only that the father of the victim filed one case against the
accused. Burt she has not knowledge about the case. Her cross
examination is declined by the defence.
Page 7 of 17

16.PW4 is Md.Barkat Ali. It is his evidence that both the accused and the
victim reside in the same village with him. About one year ago Suruj
Ali, the father of the victim stated to him that the accused had
committed rape upon his daughter at maize filed situated on the
western side of his house. The victim was aged about 7/8 years at
that time.

17.In cross examination, he has stated that he has for the first time
come to court along with the informant. The place of occurrence from
their house is situated at a distance of 100 meters and he did not visit
the place of occurrence. On the next day of occurrence the informant
Suruj, narrated the fact of the incident to him. At the time of narrating
the facts to him by the informant Suruj there were 8/10 numbers of
village people with him. He has admitted that he stated before the
Police in 161 Cr.P.C. statement that he had heard about the fact from
Suruj Ali. He also heard that on earlier occasion the informant Suruj
instituted one such case upon Kamoruddin.

18.PW5 Saharun Begum is the victim’s mother. Her evidence goes to
displace that about one year ago on the day of occurrence she along
with her husband was working in the field. At that time her victim
daughter who was studying in class Ill after returning from School was
going to the field where they had been working. While proceeding to
the field the accused asked her daughter to go through the maize
field. Though her daughter initially refused to go through the maize
field the accused stated that he would take her to the field. But her
daughter did not reach their field. After being returned from the field
they were told by their daughter that the accused removed her pent
and did sexual intercourse with her and when she raised alarm the
accused offered her to give biscuit and money to her and asked her
not to disclose the fact to anyone. She enquired the private part of
her victim daughter and noticed reddishness on her private part. Her
Page 8 of 17

husband gave village ‘bichar’ but the village people stated that it is
your daughter and you know what to do and thereafter my husband
lodged the FIR. The place of occurrence situated at maize field.

19.In cross examination, she has stated that the distance between the
maize field and the field where they were working is about 500
meters. Generally the School of the victim closes at 2 p.m. but on that
day due to some meeting the School closed at 11 a.m. On the day of
occurrence the victim after informing her grandmother Saleha Bewa
was proceeding towards the field where they were working. But no
one had seen the accused Habej taking the victim towards the maize
field. Barkat Ali had heard the shouting of her daughter and Barkat Ali
stated to them that he had heard her daughter’s shouting and that
her daughter was with one man with the same age group of Barkat.
She has denied that she had not stated in her statement U/S 161
Cr.P.C. that the accused had asked her daughter to go through the
maize field, removed her half pent and asked her not to state the fact
to any one and offered her biscuit and money and that she had seen
reddishness in her private part. Though the cloth of her daughter was
shown to the police but the police had not seized the same. At the
time of showing the cloth the same was dry. After returning from the
maize field her victim daughter at first visited the house their adopted
daughter Asma but she had not asked Asmat anything about the
incident. Asma herself stated to her that after seeing the mud in the
cloth of the victim she asked her to go for bath. While they were in
the field no one informed them about the incident. When she visited
the place of occurrence on the day of occurrence itself in the evening
along with her husband and the victim daughter she had seen several
maizes broken at the place of occurrence and it was wet due to
raining. Police recorded her statement after about one week of the
incident. Her husband had submitted paper at the Police station to
compromise the case after being approached by the family members
20.

21.

22

Page 9 of 17

of the accused. About several years ago another same case was filed
against another person involving the same victim. The wife of the
accused approached them for compromise but the accused refused to
compromise though they had given one village bichar before the
village people, but the same did not take place. They have filed one
document before the Police duly signed by her husband Suruj
Alki(informant) as well the accused stating that they have
compromise case. She has denied the defence suggestion that they
had lodged a false case against the accused and that her victim
daughter had not stated about the fact to her.

PW6 is Dr. Pratirekha Saikia and she examined the victim on 08/04/16
in connection with this case and on examination she found as follows:
‘" Height: 60 cm, teeth: 12/12, hair- normal, auxiliary, pubic hair:
absent, breast: undeveloped, PV examination cannot be done as
hymen is intact. No injury seen in her private part. Vaginal swab not
done. Approximate age: 7 to 8 years according to radiologist report.
Remark:
1) No comment could be given regarding sexual intercourse;
2)Approximate age 7 to 8 years.
3)No injury seen in her private part.

After 24 hours of sexual intercourse sigma loses all importance.
Ext.3 is the medical report, ext.3(1) is her signature.

In cross examination, she has stated that at the time of examination
she found the mental and physical condition of the victim O.K. In
case of minor girl of 7 to 8 years if there was forceful secual
intercourse there must be tears and swelling. In this case she has not
found tears and swelling.

.PW7 Nur Zaman Hazarika being the I.0. of the case has testified to

the fact that on 08/04/16 while he was acting as I/C, Daipam Outpost
Page 10 of 17

on that day the informant Suruj Ali lodged an FIR alleging that on
07/04/16 his minor daughter while proceeding to the field where they
were working for cultivation the accused took her to the nearby maize
field and attempted to commit rape on her and when she raised
alarm nearby people came and in the meantime the accused fled
away. He had made GD entry on the basis of the FIR vide GD entry
No.139 dated 08/04/16 and forwarded the same to Dalgaon P.S. On
receipt of the FIR O/C, Dalgaon PS. registered Dalgaon PS case
No.241/16 U/S 376(1) IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act and he
was entrusted with the investigation of the case. He visited the place
of occurrence, prepared sketch map thereof and recorded the
statement of the victim and other witnesses U/S 161 Cr.P.C.. He also
sent the victim girl for medical examination and got her statement
recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. before the Magistrate. Then he collected the
medical examination report of the victim and also arrested the
accused. After completion of investigation he laid charge sheet U/S
376(1) IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. He has marked the
sketch map as ext.4 and ext.4(1) is his signature. Ext.5 is the charge
sheet and exct.5(1) is his signature.

23.In cross examination, he has revealed that in the FIR there is no
mention in committing rape. Except mentioning of attempt to outrage
her modesty. On the approach of Barkat Ali the accused fled away
from the place of occurrence. He had examined Barkat Ali. The
distance between the Police Outpost and the place of occurrence is
about 3 K.M. As per the FIR the incident occurred on 07/04/16 at
around 1 p.m. and the FIR was received on 08/04/16 at 8.30 a.m. The
delay in lodging the FIR has not mentioned. He has confirmed that
PW1 Suruj Ali stated to him that Asma _ Khatun after return of the
victim found the mud in her genji and her half pent and changed the
Same and washed her body. He has further confirmed the
contradiction in the testimony of PW5 by disclosing that PW5 Saharun
Page 11 of 17

Begum had not stated before him that the accused had taken her
daughter through the maize field, removed her half pent and
committed bad work with her and she had seen reddishness in her
private part. He had not seized the wearing apparel of the
witness(PW5). Saharun came to know about the incident from Asma
Khatun. He had not seen grass inside the maize field in a depressed
condition, but he had not found the maize in broken condition.

24.CW1 Asma Khaun. It is her evidence on oath that she stated that one

25.

respected person namely Suruj Ali resides near her house who hada
daughter aged about 7 years. Police did not ask her anything in

connection with this case. Her cross examination was declined.

On cumulative consideration of the afore discussed evidence on
record, it appears that there is a vital contradiction in the testimony
of the informant(PW1) to the FIR, Ext.2 which has poluted the veracity
of the prosecution case beyond refinement to support the charge
levelled against the accused. The informant(PW1) in his evidence has
brought the allegation of rape of his minor daughter(PW2), but Ext.1
the FIR discloses that the same was lodged on the allegation that on
the day of occurrence the accused attempted to commit rape on his
daughter. In contradiction to the FIR- Ext.1, PW1 has stated that the
accused Habijuddin @ Habej Ali committed sexual intercourse with his
daughter in the maize field and on the same day he lodged an FIR at
Daipam Out Post, but the FIR Exhibit 1 reveals a different story,
wherein it has been alleged that on the date of the occurrence the
accused tried to molest his minor daughter(PW2) aged around 7 years
by gagging her mouth by dragging her the nearby paddy field and
after bringing her down on the ground tried to sexually ravish her.
But one person who was standing nearby after having seen the
incident came forward and in the meantime the accused fled away.
Thus, it is abundantly seen that the testimony of the informant(PW1)
Page 12 of 17

is totally in variance with his testimony where he has improved his
version by speaking a case of rape on his victim daughter(PW2). His
evidence has been completely demolished in cross examination which
has affected the credibility of this witness.

26.In cross examination, he has admitted that as a result of the incident
his victim daughter(PW2) had not sufferede any injury on her body.

27.At this juncture, if the evidence of the victim(PW2) is perused, it
would appear that as per her version when the alleged incident
occured she was 7 years old. According to her evidence on the day of
occurrence her parents were working in the field. She was proceeding
to her parents from her home alone and on the way the accused
Habijuddin @ Habej Ali called her and took her to the maize field. He
removed her pent and penetrated his penis into her private part. As a
result, she sustained injury on her private part. She cried due to the
incident and when her parents returned from field she she narrated
the fact. Her statement U/S 164 Cr.PC. recorded before the
Magistrate vide Ext.2 also corroborates her own version.

28.Now moot question arises as to whether the minor victim(PW2) was
subjected to rape on the day of occurrence. On the day of occurrence
when the FIR, ext.1 lodged by her own father(PW1) depicts a different
story alleging that on the day of the occurrence the accused tried to
molest her, but one man who was waiting there came forward the

accused immediately fled away.

29.It is already seen that PW2 was around 7 years is a child witness
when the alleged offence taken place. So far as the evidence of child
witness is concerned it is settled principle of law that Section 118 of
the Evidence Act does not preclude a child from being a witness
inasmuch as all persons shall be competent to testify unless the
Page 13 of 17

court thinks otherwise. However, as regards the competency and
credibility of child witness the Hon'ble Apex Court in Gala Gobinda
VS State of A.P. 2008 SC 1842 (para 9) it has been held that "
the child witnesses are amenable to tutoring and often live in a world
of make beliefs. Though it is an established principle that the child
witnesses are dangerous witnesses as they are pliable and liable to
be influenced easily, shaked and moulded, but it is also an accepted
norm that if after careful scrutiny of their evidence the court comes to
the conclusion that there is no impress of truth in it, there is no
obstacle in the way of accepting the evidence of a child witness."

30.It is in this back drop, if we further scrutinise her evidence closely, it
would appear that her evidence is bereft of truthfulness and
therefore, her evidence is not fully reliable. It is the testimony of PW2
in her cross examination that she narrated before her parents about
the incident when they returned from their work in the evening. She
has also disclosed in cross examination that after returning from the
maize field where the accused committed rape on her till the arrival
of her parents she stayed with her grand mother and her younger
sister. Even if it is hypothecally assumed but not admitting that the
victim about who was 7 years old at the time of incident she would
have definitely suffered serious injury on her private part at the time
of commission of forceful rape by the accused who is an adult male
person of aged about 35 years. That apart, if the victim(PW2) had
been committed rape forcefully she being a minor girl of tender age
of 7 years would not have been able to come to her house without
assistance of any other person. It is also hard to believe that if the
victim(PW2) had been raped by the accused forcefully she would
have narrated about the incident before her grand mother and her
younger sister who was staying at their house immediately and she
would not have waited without any visible reaction till return of her
parents from the field to narrate about the incident. That apart, if the
Page 14 of 17

victim sustained bodiliy injury on her private part that would have
also noticed by her grandmother and younger sister whom she met
after commission of rape by the accused. Thus, in my considered
view, | do not find any impression of truth in the testimony of the
victim(PW1). The evidence of PW2 is apparently found to be lack of
intrinsic reliability and not wholly trustworthy in the face of the
discrepant, incoherent and infirm evidence on record. That apart, the
testimony of informant (PW1) that his daughter had not suffered any
injury on the part of her body in his cross examination has rendered
the prosecution case more doubtful as regards sexual ravishment of
the victim(PW2). In the back drop of admitted enmity between the
informant(PW1) and the accused since before the incident due to
political rivalry in addition to the incredible evidence on record, it is
beyond understanding as to why the informant(PW1) placed the
matter beforte the village 'bichar' without lodging the FIR promptly
before the Police when the victim daughter(PW2) had sustained injury
on her private part as a result of rape committed upon her by the
accused. Thus, it can be inferred that due to previous enmity the
informant(PW1) has lodged the FIR against the accused to feed fat his
grudge against the accused.

31.The evidence of PW1 has also suffered from serious contradiction as
confirmed through the 1.0.(PW7) on the material particulars of the
case and therefore, the evidence of PW1(informant) which is
contradictory to the FIR lodged by him depicting a different story
appears to be tainted one. The evidence of PW5, mother of the
victim though appears to be not an eye witness to the incident yet
her evidence has been throroughly contradicted and, therefore, the
story spoken by her is also disbelieved that on the date of the
occurrence the accused committed forceful rape on_ her
daughter(PW2).
Page 15 of 17

32.It also transpires from the evidence of Medical Officer(PW6) that she
has ruled out commission of rape on the victim who was examined
on the next day of the incident i.e. on 08/04/16. As per the evidence
of Medical Officer(PW6) she found no injury on the private part of the
victim(PW2) who was 7 to 8 years old. In cross examination, she has
further reiterated that at the time of medical examination she found
mental and physical condition of the victim in proper state and in
case of minor girl of 7 to 8 years’ if there was forceful sexual
intercourse there must be tears and swelling. But this case she had
not found tears and swelling.

33.From the evidence of Medical Officer(PW6) it is seen that at the time
of examination of the victim(PW2) was tender child of 7 to 8 years
but the story spoken by the victim(PW2) does not inspire any
confidence in the facts and circumstances of the case_ which also
does not get support from the medical evidence of PW6. If the
victim(PW2) had been forcefully sexually assaulted by the accused
who is an adult person there must have been tears and swelling and if
the victim had suffered such injury on her private part that would
have been easily noticeable to her grandmother and her elder sister
after returning from the field and even to her parents(PW1 and PW5)
who returned in the afternoon from the field. Surprisingly for the
reason best known to the informant(PW1) he placed the matter before
the village 'bichar' instead of lodging an FIR promptly with the Police
Station and also would have taken his victim daughter(PW2) for
medical treatment. But the informant(PW1) lodged the FIR only when
no village bichar took place. The filing of an Aposenama( compromise
deed) to compromise the with the accused relating to this incident by
the informant(PW1) during the investigation of the case has created a
cloud of suspicion as to the authenticity of the prosecution case. The
informant(PW1), father of the victim(PW2) lodged the FIR belatedly
before the Police. As a result of belated lodging of the FIR in the facts
Page 16 of 17

and circumstances of the case and due to lack of cogent and
unimpeachable evidence on record it can be safely inferred that the
value of the FIR has lost the advantage of spontaneity due to
exaggerated account and concocted story as a result of large number
of consultation and deliberations.

34.More over, CW1 who alleged to have witnessed the incident has
simply thrown aside the prosecution case by disclosing that she does
not know anything in connection with this case.

35.Above being the position, | am of the considered opinion that the
prosecution has failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt.
Hence, the accused is entitled to acquittal.

36.In the result, | am constrained to hold that the accused Habijuddin
alias Habej Ali is not guilty U/S 376(2)(i) IPC reasd with Section 4 of
the POCSO Act.

37.Bail bond executed by the accused Habijuddin @ Habej Ali and the
surety shall remain in force for another six months in compliance
with the provision U/S 437(A) Cr.P.C.
Given under my hand and seal of this Court this 11 day of
December,2017.

Dictated and corrected by me and
each page bears my signatures.

(P.Saikia)
Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai
Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
Page 17 of 17

APPENDIX
A)Prosecution witnesses:

i)PW1 Suryj Ali

ii)PW2 Sujeda Khatun

iii)/PW3 Mustt. Meherun Nessa
iv)PW4 Barkat Alli

v)PW5 Saharun Begum

vi)PW6 Dr.Mrs. Pretirekha Saikia
viil)PW7 Nur Zaman Hazarika

B) CW:
i)CW1 Asma Khatun

C(Defence witness: Nil.
D)Exhibits:

i)Ext.1 FIR

ii)Ext.2 statement of the victim
iii)Ext.3 Medical report

iv)Ext.4 sketch map

v)Ext.5 charge sheet.

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
