1
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 36 OF 2017

Under Section 376 IPC read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act,2012

Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-versus-

Saiful Hoque ... Accused.

APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Mr. A. Kayem, learned PP.
For the accused : Mr.M. Zaman, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 04-09-2017 & 13-11-2017
Argument heard on : 21-12-2017
Judgment delivered on : 21-12-2017.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that on 03-03-2016 one Amir
Hamja lodged an FIR alleging that about 14 days ago at about 8.00 PM
accused Saiful Islam illegally entered into his house and kidnapped his
daughter Hamida Khatun aged about 13 years. The accused person
committed rape on her for 2/3 times at Nichuka Pathar and left her
there. Coming to know about the occurrence the villager went to the
house of the accused and informed the matter the to guardian of
accused Abdul Islam. But instead of settling the matter the accused
and his guardian attempted to physically assault them and also
threatened to kill them.
2

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against accused Saiful Hoque under section 4 of POCSO Act,
2012.
3. Accordingly the accused person appeared before this court,
copies are furnished to him and after hearing both the parties charge
was framed against the accused person under section 376 IPC read
with section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012. Charge was read over and clearly
explained to the accused person to which he has pleaded not guilty
and claimed for trial.
4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined as many as
three witnesses including the medical officer. Examination of the
accused person under section 313 Cr.P.C.is dispensed with.
5. Point for determination:-
(1) Whether the accused person prior to 14 days from the date of
filing the FIR on 03-03-2016 at about 8.00 PM at Nichuka, within the
jurisdiction of Barpeta Road Police Station, District Barpeta, committed
rape on Hamida Khatun, aged about 13 years, daughter of Amir Hamja
and committed penetrative sexual assault on her ?

Decision and reasons thereof:
6. In this present case the allegation against the accused person is
that on the date of occurrence at about 8.00 PM he committed rape on
the victim who is aged about 13 years.
7. The father of the victim Amir Hamja, who is examined as PW2
lodged the FIR. But the first informant PW2 in his deposition has not
supported the allegation which are made in the FIR. In his deposition
he has stated that on the date of occurrence at about 8.00 PM he had
sent the victim to grocery shop to purchase sugar and tea. As she
delayed in returning home he also went to the shop and saw the
victim was gossiping with the accused person. Then out of suspicion
he lodged the FIR.

In his cross examination he has stated that he does not know
what is written in the FIR. He only put his signature. At the instigation
of the villagers he lodged the FIR.
3

8. Being a case of POCSO Act, the victim is the vital witness in this
case. She is examined as PW2. Corroborating the statement of her
father PW2 she has also deposed that on the date of occurrence at
about 8.00 PM she has gone to the shop of the accused to purchase
some article. As she was gossiping with the accused person out of
suspicion her father lodged the FIR.

In her cross examination she has stated that she does not know
who wrote the FIR and what is written in the FIR. The accused person
did not do any illicit act with her. The FIR was lodged falsely. She
knows the accused person since long back. She made the statement
before the Magistrate as tutored by the Police.

9. The Medical Officer who is examined as PW3 has deposed that
on 04-03-2016 she examined the victim. As per her opinion there is no
recent sign of sexual intercourse but the victim accustomed to sexual
intercourse. There is no violence marks on her private parts.

10. From the above discussions of the evidences of the prosecution
witnesses, it is found that the victim and the first informant
themselves have denied the allegation which are made in the FIR.
According to them the FIR was written by somebody else and they do
not know what is written in the FIR. The victim has clearly stated that
the accused person did not do any illicit act with her. She was only
gossiping with the accused person. Both of them have stated that the
informant lodged the FIR out of suspicion.

11. Under such circumstances it is clear the prosecution has
miserably failed to prove any offence against the accused person.
Therefore the accused person is acquitted and set at liberty.

12. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
extended for another period of six months from the date of this
judgment under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

13. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section
365 Cr.P.C.
4

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 21st day of
December, 2017.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
APPENDIX

(A)Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1 :Statement under section 164 CrPC
Ext.1(1) &
Ext.1(2) :Sigs. of Hamida Khatun
Ext.2 :Medical Report
Ext.2(1) :Sig. of Dr. A Boro
B)Defence Exhibits:Nil
C)Exhibits produced by witnesses:Nil.
D)Court Exhibits:Nil.
E)Prosecution witnesses:
P.W.1 : Hamida Khatun
P.W.2 : Amri Hamja

P.W.3 : Dr. Anima Boro, Lady Medical Officer at FAA Medical
College and Hospital, Barpeta

)
)
)
)

(F)Defence witnesses:Nil.
(G)Court witnesses:Nil.
Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta
