SplI.(POCSO) Case No.55/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: CACHAR.
SpI.(POCSO) Case No.55 of 2019
(U/S 366 / 493IPC and Sec. 4 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM ........cecsseeeeeseeeesssseaeeeeeesssseeeeees Complainant.
-Versus-
BiNOY DaS..........ccceeeseeceeeeseeeeeeeeseenteseeeeeseeesseeeeeeeas Accused.
Charge framed ON !-........ccccccccecesseeeeesssteeeeeseeeeeeens 18.12.19
P.WS. EXAMINE ON!-...... cc ceeeceeeeceeeeseteeeeeeeeenaaaeeees 21.1.20
Argument heard On: ........:cc:cccsssssseessssseesssseeeesseees 21.1.20.
Judgment pronounced and delivered On:-..........0000 21.1.20.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : MrG.A.Mazumder, Id. Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an FIR

with the I/C of Katigorah PS stating the facts that on 19.08.19 at about 8-30 a.m.
while was going to Siddeswar H.S. school from her house, on the way accused
had kidnapped her. It is also alleged that the accused in collusion with co accused
did so and subsequently when the matter was inquired to the co accused he

avoided the on this or that plea.

2. On receipt of the FIR, O/c Katigorah PS registered a regular PS case
vide Silchar Katigorah PS. Case No.537/19 U/S 366 IPC . Police started

investigation and during the course of investigation the statement of the victim
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.55/19

girl was recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. The investigating officer visited the place of
occurrence and prepared a rough sketch map etc. and subsequently after
completion of investigation submitted charge sheet against accused Binoy Das
only U/S 366/493 IPC r/w section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. The offence of the case being exclusively triable by the Court of
Special Judge, this case was taken up for trial after filing of the charge
sheet. In due course, upon appearance of the accused and after hearing
both sides formal charge U/S 366/493 of IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act
was framed by this court against the accused person. The charges having
been read over and explained the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed
to be tried.

3. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(i) Whether on 19.08.19 at about 8-30 a.m. the accused
persons kidnapped the victim with the intent that she might be compelled
or knowing it to be likely that she would be compelled to marry against
her will or that she would be seduced or forced to sexual intercourse, as
alleged ?

( ii ) Whether the accused by practicing deceit caused the
victim who was not lawfully married to him to believe that she was
lawfully married to him and in that belief cohabited or had sexual
intercourse with her, as alleged ?

( iii ) Whether the accused person committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim, as alleged ?

6. Prosecution side examined as many as 2 witnesses i.e., the victim
and the informant as PW.1 and PW.2 respectively . On the submission of the Id.
Special P.P. the evidence for the prosecution side is closed. As no incriminating
materials appears to be found against the accused during evidence the recording
of statement of the accused U/S 313 CrP.C. is dispensed with.

A. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have also
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.55/19

heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF

8. Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused person
as mentioned in points for determination.

9. PW.1 is the victim who is the prime witness of this case deposed in
her evidence that the occurrence took place about 3 / 4 months earlier from the
date of her deposition in the morning and on that day as her mother scolded her
she went to the house of her maternal aunt at Anapurnaghat and stayed there.
She further deposed that police recovered her and the accused and brought to
Katigorah PS and then PW.1 was taken to her and then she came to know that
her uncle lodged a case and thereafter her medical examination was done and
her statement u/s 164 CrP.C was recorded in the court. Ext.1 is the said
statement.

PW.1 in his cross examination stated that she went to the house of

her maternal aunt out of her own accord. She further stated that at the time of
her recovery the accused was not with her or police and police brought the
accused from other place. She further stated that out of misunderstanding of
facts her uncle lodged this case and she has got no grievances against the
accused.
10. PW.2, Goutam Paul, who is the informant of this case and uncle of
the victim deposed in his evidence that on the date of occurrence as the victim
did not return from school as such he lodged this FIR against the accused and
another. Police recovered the victim from Annapurnaghat.

In his cross examination PW.2 deposed that out of misunderstanding
of fact he lodged the FIR against the accused and PW.2 has got no grievances
against the accused.

11. So, from the evidence of prime witness i.e. the victim PW.1 it appears
that at the relevant time she went to her maternal aunt’s house as her mother
scolded her and her uncle lodged this FIR. The informant PW.2 also deposed that

he lodged the FIR against the accused as she did not return from school. So, from
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.55/19

the evidence in its entirety of the principal witnesses- the victim and the informant
it reveals they did not at all implicate the accused in the alleged offence of crime.
Rather both the witnesses stated in their cross examination that out of
misunderstanding of facts this FIR was lodged and that they have got no
grievances against the accused. PW.1 also stated in her cross examination that at
the time of her recovery the accused was not with her and the police brought the
accused from other place. In view of the above for non implication of the accused
by the prime witnesses i.e. the victim and the informant in their evidence, the

accused deserves to be acquitted.

12. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/s 366/493 of IPC and Sec. 4 of
POCSO Act against accused.

13. In the result, accused person is not held guilty and stand acquitted of

the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty forthwith.
Bail bonds stand discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on this the
21st day of January, 2020.
Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee,
Stenographer Gr. I
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.55/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR
Sp!I.(POCSO) Case No. 55 of 2019.

APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW, 1 — victim
P.W. 2 — Goutam Paul.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: -_ NIL
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -
Ext. 1
Ext.2 - FIR
(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: -
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: -

NIL.
NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -

— statement of victim.

NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
