Page 1 of 6

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

02 of 2017

(Under Section 18 of POCSO Act, arising
out of G.R. Case No. 2557 of 2016 )

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge,
Sonitpur :Tezpur
State of Assam

-“Vs-
1. Md. Babul Islam & Hussain
Son of Md. GulzarsHussain
Resident of Samdhara
Police Station. — Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam.

07-06-2017.

13-11-2017

13-11-2017

13-11-2017

13-11-2017

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. S. Borah, Advocate.
Page 2 of 6
JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md. Babul Islam @ Hussain is put for trial for
allegation of charge u/s 18 of POCSO Act.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or
about 2.30 p.m. of 07-08-2016 while the informant’s daughter Miss “X”
aged about 13 years came out from her uncle’s house to her house
through the field of Arahar, the accused Babul Hussain attempted to
commit rape. On hearing alarm of the daughter of informant, \ they
rescued her daughter. Hence, this prosecution case. The informant Somla
Khatun has filed the ejahar before the Incharge of Borghat»Police Out
Post on 08-08-2016.

as On receipt of the ejahar, the I/C of Borghat Police Out Post after
giving the GD Entry being No. 160 dated 08-08-2016 forwarded the
same to Officer-In-Charge of Tezpur Police Station for registering a case.
On being receipt the ejahar, O/C Tezpur Police Station registered a case
being Tezpur P.S. Case No. 1355/16.u/s 376/511 of IPC read with section
4 of the POCSO Act. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C
Tezpur Police Station sent»up the case for trial against the accused Md.
Babul Islam @ Hussain. u/s 376/511 of IPC read with section 4 of the
POCSO Act.

4. On=being appeared the accused person before this Court, after
commitment of the record, after hearing both parties, framed charge u/s
18 of the POCSO Act against the accused Md. Babul Islam @ Hussain.
Particulars of the charge were read over, explained to the accused to

which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined two numbers of
witnesses i.e. the complainant and victim. After recording the statement
of the aforesaid witnesses, learned counsel for the accused submitted to
close the evidence on the ground that the statement of the complainant
and victim no way reveals any materials against the accused as to the
alleged offence. Hence, it would be futile to examine the other witnesses.

I have heard the learned Public Prosecutor who also conceded.

 
Page 3 of 6

6. On close scrutiny of the statement of the witnesses recorded so
far, I have come to the conclusion that with the evidence of the said
witnesses prosecution case would not develop even if examined the other
witnesses.

7. Speedy trial is the right of the accused person. Considering all
these aspects, prosecution evidence is closed. Statement of the accused is
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and
the evidence appears against the accused are put before him for his
explanation where he denied the allegation and declined toadduce
defence evidence.

8. I have also heard the argument put forward .by \the learned

counsels of both sides.
9. The points for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on or about 2.30 p.m. on 07-08-2016, at Samdhara,
under Tezpur Police station, the accused attempted to commit any
offence punishable under the POCSO Act or to cause such an offence to
be committed and_in such attempt, does any act towards the
commission of the offence, on Miss "X", aged about 13 years) , and
thereby committed _an offence punishable under section 18 of the
POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

10. To arrive.at.the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence

on record.

11.-. PW 1, complainant Somala Khatoon deposed before the court that
thesincident took place about one year back. Her victim daughter went to
paddy field at about 12 O'clock to see Arahar cultivation from the house
of her uncle. The victim girl after returned from paddy field informed her
that the accused only hold her hand but did not do any bad act on her.
Then she filed the ejahar. The ejahar was written by some other persons
but not according to her dictation. She has filed the ejahar in the next day

at the pressure of neighbours.

In cross-examination, she admitted that after writing the ejahar

by the scribe, the same was not read over to her. She does not know the

 
Page 4 of 6

contents of the ejahar. She has not filed any case against the accused so

she has no objection, if the accused is enlarged on acquittal.

12. PW 2, the victim Miss “X” stated that she knows the accused Babul
Hussain @ Islam who is her neighbour. Complainant is her mother. At the
time of incident she was 13 years old. The incident took place about one
year back. On that day, in the morning she was at her uncle’s house.
After having launch she came out from the uncle’s house at about 2 p.m.
She went to paddy field of Arahar cultivation in Samdhara village.
Accused simply hold her hand but did not do any bad act. She was afraid
so shouted. On hearing her shouting one of their villagers.rescued her
and took her to her house. Then she reported the matter to her mother.
Then her mother lodged the ejahar in the next day..After instituting the
case her statement was recorded through the learned Magistrate. Ext. 1
is her statement recorded u/s 164 CR.P.C. ands€xt. 1(1) and 1(2) are her

signatures.

In cross-examination, she ‘admitted that out of fear she raised

alarm. She has no objection, if the-accused is enlarged on acquittal.

13. | These much is the evidence of the prosecution case.

14. Here in the’ present case as stated above, the complainant and
mother of the victim, PW 1, stated that that the accused only hold the
hand of hersdaughter but did not do any bad act on her. Then she filed
the ejahar.. The ejahar was written by some other persons but not
according to her dictation. She has filed the ejahar in the next day at the
pressure of neighbours. She also admitted in cross-examination that after
writing the ejahar by the scribe, the same was not read over to her. She
does not know the contents of the ejahar. She has not filed any case
against the accused so she has no objection, if the accused is enlarged on
acquittal. By stating such statement, the informant gives good bye to the
prosecution case. Her statement does not reveal any of the ingredients as

stated above.

Next material witness is the victim i.e. PW 2 who stated that on

the day of incident, in the morning she was at her uncle’s house. After

 
Page 5 of 6

having launch she came out from the uncle’s house at about 2 p.m.,she
went to paddy field of Arahar cultivation in Samdhara village. Accused
simply hold her hand but did not do any bad act. She was afraid so
shouted. On hearing her shouting one of their villagers rescued her and
took her to her house. Then she reported the matter to her mother. Then
her mother lodged the ejahar in the next day. After instituting the case
her statement was recorded through the learned Magistrate. Ext. 1 is her
statement recorded u/s 164 CR.P.C. and Ext. 1(1) and 1(2) are her
Signatures. In cross-examination, she admitted that out of fear she.raised
alarm. She has no objection, if the accused is enlarged on acquittal.
Therefore her statement is also no way supported the prosecution case.
In the present case, neither the complainant nor the victim, supported the
prosecution case. The statement of the complainant and victim no way

reveals any ingredients as stated above.

15. Under such circumstances, I have come to the conclusion that the
prosecution has failed to prove the case, against the accused Md. Babul
Islam @ Hussain beyond any reasonable doubt. As such, he is acquitted
from the charge u/s 18 of the\POCSO Act and set him at liberty forthwith.

16. =‘ The liability of the‘bailor is hereby discharged.

Send back the GR Case record being No. 2557/16 to the learned

committal court along with a copy of this order.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 13 day
of.November, 2017.

(A.K. Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(A.K. Borah)

SESSIONS JUDGE,

SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
Page 6 of 6

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

1. | Prosecution Witness No.1 - Complainant Samala Khatoon
2. Prosecution Witness No.2 ‘ Victim Miss “X”
(A.K. Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,

SONITPUR:,TEZPUR
