Spl. POCSO Case No. 54/18 1

DISTRICT- BAKSA
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, BAKSA, MUSHALPUR

SPL. POCSO CASE NO. 54/18
(u/s 448/323/34 IPC R/W Section 18 of the POCSO Act)

State of Assam
-versus-

Samed Ali and Karim All..............5 Accused

Present- Smti. M.C. Bordoloi, M.A., L.L.B., (A.J.S.),
Judge Special Court, Baksa

Appearance:
Mr. Ranjit Chetri............... Public Prosecutor for the State

Mr. Mritunjoy Mazumdar...... Advocate for the accused persons

Date of charge: 04.12.18
Date of evidence: 12.03.19, 26.07.19, 12.09.19, 19.11.19
Statement recorded on: 09.01.2020
Date of argument: 09.01.2020
Date of judgment: 22.01.2020
JUDGMENT

One Md. Jalil Ali of Village Chiknibari under Tamulpur PS.,

disrict Baksa lodged an ejahar with the Tamulpur Police Station on

(Va oy 13.05.2016 alleging inter alia that on the 12 day of May, 2016 at
r © a™about 7.30 pm, accused Samed Ali and Karim Ali forcibly entered his

VLR 3
wi dwelling house with intent to sexually assault his minor daughter
oe (name withheld) but his attempt was foiled when the victim girl

raised a cry of alarm, hearing which the informant arrived at the
scene of occurrence and succeeded in apprehending one of the
accused while the other away fled away therefrom. The informant
also alleged that thereafter accused Sohaib Ali, Umed Ali, Jamir Ali

and some other persons armed with ‘dao’, ‘lathi’, dagger etc came

Contd...
Spl. POCSO Case No. 54/18 2

to his premises and assaulted his family members including himself
and also damaged his property, taking advantage of which
situation, the apprehended accused fled away. Hence the ejahar.

Upon receipt of the ejahar, a case vide Tamulpur P.S Case No.
134/16 u/s 448/325/34 IPC R/W Section 18 of the Pocso Act was
registered and investigated upon.

Upon completion of investigation, charge-sheet vide No.
168/16 dated 13.05.2016 against the accused Samed Ali and Md.
Karim Ali was laid before Ld. CJM Nalbari, u/s 448/323/34 R/W
Section 18 of the POCSO Act showing accused Karim Ali as
absconder, which was put up before the Hon'ble Sessions Judge
Nalbari and accordingly Special Pocso Case was registered and
summons issued to the accused persons.

Thereafter with the creation of the Court at Baksa and the
cause of action having arisen within the jurisdiction of Baksa Court,
the case record was transferred from the Court of Hon’ble Sessions
Judge Nalbari to the Court at Baksa.

Hon'ble District Judge, Baksa cum Judge Special Court, Baksa
having secured the attendance of the accused person in the Court,
serviced copies of the case to the accused persons on their
appearance in compliance of provision of Section 207 Cr.PC and
vide order dated 04.12.2018, framed a formal charge u/s
448/323/34 IPC R/W Section 18 of the POCSO Act, against the
accused persons. The charge on being read over and explained to
the accused persons, they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

It is pertinent to mention herein that with the designation of
the instant Court as Special Court vide Hon'ble Gauhati High Court,
Guwahati notification dated 02.01.2020, the present case record
was transferred by the Hon'ble Sessions Judge Baksa to this Court
for disposal.

The prosecution in order to prove its case examined as many
as 6 numbers of witnesses including the I/O. The defence side cross
examined all the prosecution witnesses but declined to adduce
defence evidence.

Contd...
Spl. POCSO Case No. 54/18 a

Statement of the accused persons u/s 313 Cr.PC was recorded
wherein the accused pleaded innocence and declined to adduce
defence evidence.

From the trend of cross examination, and the statement of
the accused recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC, it appears that the defence
plea is that of total denial of guilt.

| have heard the arguments advanced by the Ld. Counsels of
both sides and also perused the evidence available on record.

The point for determination that has arisen in the instant case
are as follows:-

POINT FOR DETERMINATION:

1. Whether on the 12 day of May, 2016 at about 7.30
pm at village Chiknibari under Tamulpur P.S, accused Samed
Ali and Karim Ali committed house trespass by entering into
the house of the informant with intent to commit sexual
assault on the informant’s minor daughter in furtherance of
their common intention?

2. Whether on the same day, time and place, the
accused persons in furtherance of their common intention
voluntarily caused hurt to the informant party vis Jalil Ali,
Rahila Khatun and Aklima Begum?

3. Whether on the same day, time and place, accused
persons attempted to commit penetrative sexual assault on
the informant’s minor daughter?

My decision on the above points for determination along with
reasons is given hereinunder:-

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THERE FOR:

To address the points for determination so framed, it will be
worthwhile to peruse the evidence available on record and | proceed
to do so.

PW-1, the victim in her evidence stated that the occurrence
took place about 2 years back and that on the fateful day at about 7

Contd...
Ps ss

len 2

av
ay
oo

Spl. POCSO Case No. 54/18 4

om, accused Samed Ali came to her and talked with her and that
the local people having seen them indulging in a talk, suspected
foul play and reported the same to her parents whereupon her
father lodged the case against the accused person. PW-1 further
stated that she was in a love relationship with the accused Samed
Ali, much prior to the occurrence.

In her cross-examination, PW-1 clarified that there was no
physical relationship with accused Samed Ali prior to their marriage
and the accused persons did not physically assault her and that the
case had been filed due to misunderstanding and presently she has
been leading peaceful conjugal life with the accused Samed Ali and
is a mother to a child.

PW-2, the informant of this case in his evidence stated that
accused Samed Ali and his victim daughter were in a love
relationship and that he had no knowledge about the same and that
on the fateful day when the elder brother of the accused Samed Ali
abused him in connection with the love affair between his daughter
and the accused and imputed disgraceful remarks on his victim
daughter, he filed a case against the accused. He also stated that a
scuffle took place between him and the elder brother of the accused
Samed Ali, whereby he sustained injuries and had to undergo
medical treatment. He also stated that his victim daughter is
presently married to accused Samed Ali and has a child.

In his cross-examination, he clarified that he had filed the
present case as the local public had pressurized him to do so.

PW-3 mother of the victim also deposed in tune with that of

oe xo her husband PW-2.

we”

PW-4 Insan Ali deposed that the victim had love affairs with
the accused Samed Ali and that when the victim’s father having
learnt about the love relationship, refused to marry off his daughter
to the accused Samed Ali, the victim girl on her own accord went to
the house of the accused whereupon the informant filed the case.

In his cross-examination, PW-4 revealed that accused Karim
Ali is not related to accused Samed Ali and that the victim and the
accused Samed Ali are presently leading happy conjugal life.

Contd...
2\ s . ae
a?) o® ox
sy .

Nes _
Ze

Spl. POCSO Case No. 54/18 5

PW-5 Jaharuddin Ali deposed that on the fateful day, he along
with some villagers found the accused Samed Ali and the victim girl
together in the victim’s house and that on askance, accused denied
any unlawful activity between them and that thereafter the relative
of accused Samed Ali took him away therefrom. PW-5 also stated
that on earlier occasions also accused Samed Ali used to visit the
house of the victim girl and despite being warned not to do so the
accused continued to frequent the house of the victim girl,
whereupon the case was filed. PW-5 also stated that the victim was
16 years of age at the time of occurrence.

In his cross-examination, PW-5 disclosed that he knew about
the love relationship between accused Samed and the victim girl
and as the informant(victim’s father) did not have knowledge about
the said relationship, he filed the case out of misunderstanding
against Samed Ali and against accused Karim Ali on suspicion. To a
pointed query of the defence, PW-5 disclosed that he learnt about
the age of the victim from the informant.

PW-6 is the Investigating Officer of the case. His evidence is
that of formal character. He deposed that on 13.05.2016, he was
posted at Tamulpur as an attached officer and on the said day,
consequent to the lodgment of an FIR by the informant, a case was
registered vide Tamulpur P.S Case No. 134/16 and the responsibility
of investigation was given to him and during the course of
investigation he went to the place of occurrence, traced the sketch

«Map of the place of occurrence, caused the victim’s medical

examination, caused the victim’s statement to be recorded in court,
collected the victim's medical report, seized the birth certificate of
the victim being Mat. Ext-1 and on completion of investigation
submitted charge-sheet against the accused person.

PW-6 identified the ejahar as Ext-1 and the signature of the
then O/C of Tamulpur P.S Khagen Chandra Das as Ext-1(2). He also
exhibited the sketch map of the place of occurrence as Ext-2 and his
signature thereon as Exbt-2(1). He identified the charge-sheet as
Ext-3 and his signature thereon as Exbt-3(1).

In his cross-examination, he disclosed that he had not
recorded the statement of the informant’s neighbours namely

Contd...
Spl. POCSO Case No. 54/18 6

Champak Hussain, Sunnat Ali nor he had made any seizures from
the place of occurrence.

This in nutshell, is the evidence available on record.

Perusal of the evidence of the victim and the informant
clearly discloses that the case was a fallout of misunderstanding.
Neither the informant nor the victim girl had testified to the fact
that the accused persons had illegally trespassed into their house
on the fateful night and attempted to commit penetrative sexual
assault or even sexual assault on the victim’s person or to cause
hurt to the victim or other members of her family. Rather it is
forthcoming that on the fateful day, the victim and the accused
Samed Ali were indulging in a talk and the local public did not
approve of such display of affectionate relationship between the
accused Samed Ali and the victim, which led to the lodgment of
case by the informant. Though Pws had deposed that accused
Samed Ali accompanied by accused Karim Ali went to the
informant’s house on the fateful day but in his cross examination he
himself negated the absence of accused Karim Ali at the scene of
occurrence, stating that case was lodged against accused Karim All
only on mere suspicion. The presence of accused Samed Ali at the
informant's house can not be held to be house trespass as the
informant or the victim did not testify in respect of the accused’s
forceful entry into their premises, rather the admitted cordial
relationship between the accused Samed Ali and the victim might

‘ have caused his easy ingress to the informant’s house

In so far as the age of the victim at the relevant time is
concerned, the victim as well as the informant had testified that the
victim was aged 18 years of age at the relevant time. Though the
PW-6 (I/O) had identified a Mat. Ext being a photocopy of birth
certificate but prosecution had failed to bring on record the original
of the said birth certificate to prove its genuineness. The photocopy
of the document not proved will not come to the aid of prosecution.
Accordingly, the alleged minority of the victim girl also remains
Short of being proved.

Contd...
Spl. POCSO Case No. 54/18 7

There is also no evidence on record in respect of the accused
persons assaulting and causing hurt to the informant, Rahila Khatun
or Aklima Begum.

In view of the above scanty evidence, the accused Samed Ali
and Karim Ali cannot be held guilty of commission of the offence of
house trespass and of voluntarily causing hurt to the victims. There
is also no evidence in respect of the accused Samed Ali attempting
to cause penetrative sexual assault or even sexual assault on the
victim. Prosecution case therefore fails.

Accused Samed Ali and Karim Ali are liable to be acquitted of
the charges brought about against them by prosecution, thus.

Victim compensation in the instant case is not recommended

in the facts circumstances of the case.
ORDER

In the light of the above discussions, accused Samed Ali and
(A 90 Karim Ali are acquitted of the charges u/s 448/323/34 IPC R/W
Fe co ection 18 of the POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.
22 sr The bail bond of the accused persons shall remain in force for
» “o a period of 6 months with effect from today in view of the provisions
e? of Section 437-A Cr.PC.
Given under my hand and seal of this court on the 22” day of

January, 2020.
f : A 3.2/1 [2020

(Smti. M.C. Bordolojydge Spt Court
Judge Special Court, &akaa Mushalour

Dictated and corrected by me

Mbwdolo.

eo 020
(Smti. M.C. pordre,23/ Court

Judge Special Court, Ba&gxga Mushaiour

Contd...
oe

Spl. POCSO Case No. 54/18

Prosecution witness:

PW1
Pw2
Pw3
Pwa
PW5
PW6

Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1
Ext.1(1)
Ext.1(2)
Ext.2
Ext.2(1)
Ext.3

Ext.3(1)

Defence witness:
Material exhibits:

Court witness:

APPENDIX

 

Victim(name withheld)
Md. Jalil Ali (informant)
Rahila Khatun

Insan Ali

Jaharuddin Ali

Lohit Medhi (I/O)

FIR.

Signature of Md. Jalil Ali (informant)
Signature of Khagen Ch. Das
Sketch map.

Signature of Lohit Medhi
Charge-sheet.

Signature of Lohit Medhi

Nil.
Photocopy of a birth certificate
Nil.

“ / /2020
(Smti. M.C. sical t Court

Judge Special Court Biase Mushetbur

Contd...
