Page 1 of 17

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge
Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C
Date of Argument

Date of Judgment
Counsel for the Petitioner

Counsel for Opposite Party

11 OF 2015
(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 1503 of
2014)
Committed by Dr. M. Baruah, Chief
Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Mridul Kumar Kalita, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

=-Vs-
Sri Loknath Sapagai.
Son of Sri Bhakta Sapagai,
Village — Purani bheti,
Police Station — Jamuguri,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
04/06/2015

21/10/2014,19/11/2014
17/12/2014,26/02/2015,
02/04/2015 & 09/04/2015.
23/04/2015

02/07/2015, 13/08/2015 and
17/08/2015.

21/08/2015

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai

Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.
Mr. N.K. Mishra, Legal Aid Counsel.

JUDGMENT

1. On 01-07-2014, the Officer-In-charge of Jamuguri Police Station
received an FIR (First Information Report) from one Smt. Niva Devi, wherein it
was alleged, inter alia, that on 30-06-2014 at about 3.30 p.m. Sri Loknath
Sapagai, S/O Late Bhakta Sharma resident of village Puranibheti under

Jamugurihat Police Station was caught red handed by the villagers while he was

 
Page 2 of 17

committing rape on his own daughter (herein after referred to as “the Victim”)

who is fourteen years of age.

2. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of
Jamuguri Police Station registered Jamuguri P.S. Case No. 57/14 u/s 376(2) (1) of
IPC and entrusted Sri Powal Hazarika, Sub-Inspector of Police to investigate the
case. After completion of the investigation formal charge sheet was laid U/s
376(2) (1) of IPC against the accused Sri Loknath Sapagai in the Court of Chief
Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur and the case was transferred to the Court of Sub-
Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Tezpur for disposal. On 22-09-2014 the G.R. Case
No.1503/14 was duly committed to this Court, after observing all formalities
prescribed by the Code of Criminal procedure, by Mr. M. Baruah, learned Chief
Judicial Magistrate, Soniptur, Tezpur. The accused was in judicial custody at the

time of commitment of this case to this Court.

3. This case was transferred to the Court of learned Assistant Sessions
Judge, Sonitpur, Tezpur who on 29" day of September, 2014 after hearing the
accused as well as the learned Addl. Public Prosecutor and after going through the
materials on record framed charge u/s 376 of IPC against the accused Loknath
Sapagai. The charge was read over and explained to the accused and on being
asked, he refused to plead guilty and claimed to be tried. The trial proceeded in
the Court of learned Assistant Sessions Judge, Sonitpur, Tezpur, where learned
Assistant Sessions Judge, Sonitpur, Tezpur, recorded the evidence of 10 (ten)
prosecution witnesses and also examined the accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C. The case
was fixed for argument before the learned Assistant Sessions Judge, Sonitpur,
Tezpur, on 20" May, 2015, however, learned Assistant Sessions Judge, vide order
dated 20-05-2015 observed that as per materials on record, the age of the victim
in this case is below 18 years and therefore, the case ought to be tried by Special
POCSO Court under the provisions of "Protection of Children from Sexual

Offences Act, 2012,” accordingly, the case was sent back to this Court.

4. This Court being a designated Special Court to take up cases under
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Hereinafter referred to as POCSO)
Act, 2012, directed to re-register this case as a Special POCSO case under

Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and accordingly, this case

 
Page 3 of 17

was re-registered as Special (POCSO) and the Case No. 11 of 2015. After going
through the materials on record and after hearing the learned counsel of both
sides, this Court was of view that there is ground for presuming that the accused
has committed u/s 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012
and accordingly, a formal charge u/s 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012, was framed against the accused Loknath Sapagai. The same
was read over and explained to the accused, and on being asked, he refused to

plead guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. Learned Public Prosecutor during the course of trial has submitted
that no new or further evidence need to be adduced in this case as the case has
been earlier charged u/s 376 of the Indian Penal Code, and the offences defined
under section 6 of the POCSO Act and Sections 376 IPC are similar in nature. It
was also agreed that the evidence tendered earlier, when this case was
proceeding u/s 376 IPC can be used in this POCSO Act case also. Learned defence
counsel has also submitted that as the charges are similar no prejudice would be
caused and no requirement for further cross-examination in view of framing of

new charge u/s 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6. The accused was again examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. during which he
denied the truthfulness of the testimony of the prosecution witnesses and pleaded

innocence. The accused declined to adduce any evidence in defence.

7. The points to be determined in this case are as follows:-

"Whether the accused on, 30/06/2014, at about 3.30 p.m. at
Puranibheti, under Jamuguri police Station, committed penetrative
sexual assault on "the Victim” and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act?

8. I have gone through the entire materials on record, including the
oral testimonies of the witnesses and the statement of the accused recorded
under section 313 Cr.P.C, very carefully as well as heard argument advanced by

Ld. Pubic Prosecutor and Ld. Legal aid counsel, at length.

9. Let me, at the very beginning scrutinise the evidence adduced by

the prosecution witnesses. P.W-1, Dr. Sangeeta Sharma, has deposed that, on 30-
Page 4 of 17

06-2004, while she was working as Medical & Health Officer-1 of Kanaklata Civil
Hospital, Tezpur, at about 10.40 p.m., she examined “the victim” (name
withheld) ,14 years, female, D/O Loknath Sapagai of Puranibheti, Panpur, PS
Jamuguri, in reference to Jamuguri PS Case GDE No. 1005 dated 30-06-14 being
escorted and identified by WPC Anju Hazarika of Jamuguri PS, in presence of staff
nurse Manika Dutta after taking consent from Guardian Josada Devi. On

examination she found the following :-
General Examination:

Last menstrual period — 22 days back as told by the guardian. She
did not give any history of sexual assault. Identification mark - a brownish mole in

the cetre of the right cheek.

Height — 143 cm., Weight — 40 kg, Teeth 14/14. At the time of
examination, the victim was shabbily dressed with untidy hair and dirty exposed
skin. Gait was waddling. She was mentally retarded. Internal examination could
not be done as she did not allow. She did not even allow to remove her clothes for
examination of her secondary sexual characters and injuries if any on her body

parts. Vaginal smear for examination of spermatozoa could not be taken.

Investigation advised : - 1. Urine for pregnancy test, 2. USG of
pelvis, 3. X-ray for age determination — i) Left wrist joint, ii) Left elbow joint, iii)
left iliac crest. Reports of any of the above investigation not received till writing of

this report. Opinion as per the police requisition could not be given henceforth.

She was admitted to the obstetrics and Gynaecology ward and was
referred to O & G specialist for further examination and management if required.
So, further report may be collected from the Obstetrician and Gynaecologist. Ext.

1 is the medical report and Ext. 1(1) is her signature.

During cross-examination, the Doctor has stated that as no X-ray

report was submitted to her, so she could not ascertain the age of the victim.

10. PW 2, Smt. Niva Devi, has deposed that she know both the
accused as well as the victim. Victim is the daughter of the accused Loknath

Sapagai. She has deposed that on 30-06-2014 the accused committed rape on his

 
Page 5 of 17

victim daughter and as a result of which, the victim felt difficulty in movement. In
the morning there was a hue and cry and the victim told the village people that
her father has committed rape on her. Later on, the accused was apprehended by
the villagers and handed over to the police. She has also stated that the accused
has confessed his guilt and his confessional statement is in custody of Secretary of
Development Committee Sri Narayan Adhikari. She has further deposed that she
had filed the FIR in the Police Station which is exhibited as Ext. 2 and her
Signature as Ext. 2(1).

11. During cross-examination, she has deposed that her house is about
half km away from the house of the victim. She has also deposed that on the date
of occurrence of offence, she met the victim at the place of occurrence of offence,
however, she did not find the accused there. However, about one thousand
people had gathered there. She has deposed that she had written the FIR as per
the instruction given by the villagers. She has also deposed that the victim has
ability to communicate properly. She has also stated that she herself does not
know about the incident and she has lodged the FIR as per instructions of the
villagers. She was put many other suggestive questions by learned defence

Counsel, which all were answered in negative by her.

12. PW 3, who is the ‘victim’ herself, has deposed that the accused is
her father and on the night of incident she slept with her father. She has deposed
that when she was sleeping, the accused forcibly committed sexual intercourse
with her. She has deposed that the accused also groped her breast .she has also
deposed that she suffered injuries on her private parts. She has also deposed that
the accused usually did not allow her to sleep .she has also stated that the
accused had committed sexual intercourse with her on many occasions. She has
also deposed that she has stated about the incident to her aunty who lives near
her house and when her aunty told the incident to the villagers and when all other
ladies enquired her about the incident, she also told them about the incident. She
has also deposed that she was sent for medical examination by the police and also
sent for recording her statement to the Court. Her statement was recorded and

she gave signatures on her statement.

 
Page 6 of 17

13. During cross-examination, she has deposed that her mother has
expired and her step mother has also expired and her step brother lives in Gohpur
and when her father stays at Gohpur, she used to remain alone in her house. She
has also stated that she lives in the house of her uncle and used to take food
there only. She has also stated that the land of her father is now in possession of
her uncle. She has also stated that she has deposed before this Court as taught
by her aunty who has accompanied her to the court on that day. She was also
asked several suggestive questions by learned defence counsel, which all were

answered in negative by her.

14, PW 4, Sri Indra Sapagai, has deposed that the accused is his own
elder brother and the victim is his niece, whose age is about 13 to 14 years. He
also knows the first informant of this case who is the President of Mahila Samity.
He has deposed that about 5/6 months ago, one day, in the morning, he went to
the house of the elder brother and saw the victim in complete naked condition. He
also saw injury in the private parts of the victim and semen on her body. When he
asked the victim about what has happened, she informed him that her father has
committed bad acts on her. She was crying in pain at that time and his elder
brother fled away from his house. He has deposed that he made hue and cry on
which the villagers gathered there and someone from village telephoned the
police and police arrived there and took away the victim as well as his elder

brother from there.

15. During cross-examination, he has deposed that his brother stayed
away from home for about last 30 years and he came back only two months prior
to the incident. He has deposed that in absence of his brother, victim used to stay
in her house alone. He also stated that in absence of his brother, he used to enjoy
and possess all ancestral land. He has also stated that when the question of
partition of land arose between himself and his brother, their relationships worsen.
He has also stated that other villagers have also seen the victim in naked
condition, however, he do not know who put on clothes on the victim. He has
admitted that it is true that he has not stated before police that he saw the victim

in naked condition and saw semen on the body of the victim. He was put several

 
Page 7 of 17

Suggestive questions by learned defence counsel which all were answered in

negative by him.

16. PW 5, Smti Josoda Devi, who is the wife of the PW 4, has stated
that she knows the accused only seven months prior to the date of incident and
she also know the victim as well as the first informant. She has also deposed that
on the day of incident, her husband went to the house of the victim and saw the
victim in a bad situation and when her husband informed her, she also went to
the house of the victim and saw that the victim was lying in injured condition on
her bed and there is no clothes on her lower parts. The victim was not in a
position to get up from the bed. Thereafter, PW 5 informed the villagers, villagers
came there and later on police also came, She has also stated that the accused
was staying with the victim since 7 months prior to the date of incident. She has
further stated that prior to the partitioned of properties in between accused and
her husband, their relationships was cordial. She was also put several suggestive

questions by learned defence counsel which all were answered in negative by her.

17. PW 6, Sri Narayan Sapagai @ Sarmah, has deposed that he know
the accused, victim as well as the first informant. He has stated that the accused
used to stay away from the house and the incident occurred about 6 months prior
to deposing before the Court. He has stated that he was informed about the
incident by Indra Sapagai (PW 4) that on the day of incident at about 10/11 a.m.
that the accused has committed rape on his daughter. He has further stated that
as he is the President of Village Development committee he came to the place of
incident and he was informed that the victim was lying in a naked state and she
was limping. He has also stated that the victim informed that she was raped by
her father.

18. During cross-examination, he has stated that at the place of
incident he saw the victim but he did not talk with her. He has stated that police
has not recorded his statement during investigation. He was put several
Suggestive questions by learned defence counsel to which he answered in

negative.

 
Page 8 of 17

19. PW 7, Smti Bhubeneswari @ Jiboneswari Devi, has deposed that
she knows the victim. The incident occurred about one year ago. On the day of
incident, there was hue and cry in the house of the victim and many people
gathered there and she also went there and heard that the victim has been raped
by the accused. She has also stated that later on, the accused was apprehended

by the villagers and he admitted his guilt before the villagers.

20. During cross-examination, this PW has stated that she do not know
the date of the birth of the victim and she has stated the age of the victim as
15/16 years on a rough estimation. She has denied the suggestions given by
learned defence counsel that she did not state before the police that the accused
admitted his guilt before the villagers. She was put many other suggestive

questions by learned defence counsel to which she answered in negative.

21. P.W-8, Dr. Halimuddin Ahmed, has deposed that on 03-07-2014, he
was posted at Tezpur Medical College and Hospital as Assistant Professor,
Department of Radiology and on that day, on requisition of Dr. Sangeeta Sarma of
Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur, he examined ‘the Victim’ daughter of Loknath
Sapagai. X-ray was done after identification of the patient. As per X-ray, he found

following:

(i) Epiphysis around the elbow joint are fused except epiphysis of
medial epicondyle, which is not fused.

(ii) Epiphysis of lower ends of radius and ulna are not fused with
parent bone,

(iii) Epiphysis of bilateral iliac crest have appeared, but not fused.

In his opinion, the age of the patient is between 15 years to 17
years. He exhibited the X-ray report as Ext. 3 and his signature as Ext. 3(1).
During cross-examination he has stated that he has not mentioned in the opinion
in his medical report.
22. PW- 9, Sri Powal Hazarika, who is the Investigating Officer of this
case, has deposed that on 30-06-2014, he was posted at Jamuguri PS as attached
Officer. On 01-07-2014, one Niva Devi lodged an ejahar before the PS and Officer-
in-Charge of Jamuguri PS registered a case, endorsed him to investigate the case.

Accordingly, the informant on being available at the police station, he recorded

 
Page 9 of 17

her statement. The accused person was handed over by the public and then he
interrogated and then arrested him. At the same time, the victim was brought by
the police to the Police Station and after recording her statement, sent her for
medical examination and also produced before the Court for recording her 164
Cr.P.C statement. Thereafter, he rushed to the place of occurrence, recorded the
statement of other witnesses and prepared the sketch map of the place of
occurrence. He collected the medical report of the victim girl. After completing the
investigation, he laid the charge sheet u/s 376(2) (1) of IPC against the accused
Loknath Sapagai. Ext. 4 is the sketch map of the place of occurrence and Ext. 4(1)

is his signature. Ext. 5 is the charge sheet and Ext. 5(1) is his signature.

23. During cross-examination, PW- 9, Sri, Powal Hazarika, has stated
that he did not know as to whether any telephonic information was received on
30-06-2014 or not. He has also stated that at the time of lodging the ejahar, the
victim herself, the accused, Indra Sapagai, Niva Devi, Josoda Devi, Narayan
Sharma and Jiboneswari Devi came to the police Station and he recorded their
statements as witnesses. The I.O. has deposed that he has not seized any articles
from the place of occurrence of offence. He has also stated that PW 2 Niva Devi
did not state before him that the victim girl narrated the incident to public. He has
also stated that PW 4 Indra Sapagai did not state before him that at about 10
a.m. when he went to the house of Loknath Sapagai he saw the victim girl in
naked and injured condition. He has also stated that PW 4 did not state before
him that he saw semen on the private parts of the victim girl. He also stated that
PW 4 did not state before him that he made hue and cry and his brother i.e. the
accused fled away. The Investigating Officer has further stated during cross-
examination that PW 5 Josoda Devi did not state before him that her husband saw
the victim girl woke up lately at about 10 a.m. and her husband saw the victim
lying in bad condition. He has also stated that PW 5 has not stated before him
that she came to the place of occurrence of offence and she saw the victim girl
lying in naked condition. He has also stated that PW 5 also did not state before
him that victim told her that her father did bad acts with her. He has also stated
that PW 6 Narayan Sharma did not state before him that on enquiry by Mahila

Samity, the victim girl replied that her father committed bad acts on her.

 
Page 10 of 17

24. PW 10, Sri Dhireswar Baishya, Bench Assistant of SDJM(Sadar),
Tezpur, has deposed that on 01-07-2014 the statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C statement
of the victim was recorded by the learned Sub-Divisional Judicial
Magistrate(Sadar), Tezpur. In the 164 Cr.P.C statement the victim put her RTI.
The thumb impression was taken and endorsed by him. He knew the signature of
Abdul Kadir, the then Sub-Divisional Magistrate (S), Tezpur.

25. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. During his examination
u/s 313 Cr.P.C., accused Loknath Sapagai has denied the allegation levelled
against him by prosecution witnesses and pleaded his innocence. He has also
stated that his own brother Indra Sapagai, in order to take his property, has

instituted this false case against him.

26. Learned Public Prosecutor has argued that no daughter would
make false allegation of rape on her own father. Ld. Public Prosecutor has also
fairly argued that though there are contradictions in the testimony of prosecution
witnesses, however, the accused can be convicted on the basis of sole testimony
of the Prosecutrix. On the other hand learned Legal Aid Counsel has argued that
as the offence alleged is grave having serious consequences and harsh
punishment, it is the duty of the prosecution side to prove the guilt of the accused
beyond reasonable doubt, however, he has argued, that in the instant case none
of the prosecution witness, including the victim, can be relied because of inherent

contradictions in their testimonies.

27. Learned legal Aid counsel for the accused has also submitted that
the investigation of this case has been done very perfunctorily. The I.0. has not
seized the wearing clothes of the victim. The I.0. has also not collected any
material evidence from the crime scene. He has also argued that the statements
of witnesses recorded by the I.O, during investigation, are not taken in detail so
that true facts in this case could be unveiled. I am not in disagreement with the
learned counsel for the accused that the investigation of this case has not been
done in the manner in which it ought to have been done. The I.O. has not
endeavoured to find out many aspects of different facts involved in this case,

however, it is also settled position of law that due to defective investigation, the

 
Page 11 of 17

accused may not get benefit, in all circumstances, if otherwise the case could end

in conviction.

28. As regards age of the victim, as the PW 8 who is the Radiologist
has opined that the age of victim is 15 to 17 years and his assessment is based on
Ext.3 which is the X-ray report and as I do not find anything to disbelieve the
testimony of the PW 8. I also hold, relying on the opinion given by PW 8, that the

victim is a minor.

29. In the instant case, it appears from the testimony of the witnesses
discussed in foregoing paragraphs that the first informant of this case has not
witnessed the incident and she is a reported witness. In the FIR she has stated
that the accused was caught red-handed while committing rape on his daughter,
however, none of the witnesses has deposed that any of them has seen the
accused in the crime scene. PW-1 has stated that the accused was apprehended
by villagers, however, no witness has deposed as to from where the accused was
apprehended, there is no evidence on record as to who apprehended the accused
and under what circumstances he was apprehended. Though the FIR mentions
that the accused was apprehended red handed, even the IO has stated that the
accused was brought to the police station by the public, however, he has not
enquired as to from where and under what circumstances the accused was

apprehended.

30. Learned defence Counsel has argued that though PW 4, Sri Indra
Sapagai, has stated during his examination in Chief that "He went to the house of
the elder brother and saw the victim in complete naked condition. He also saw
injury in the private parts of the victim and semen on her body. When he asked
the victim about what has happened, she informed him that her father has
committed bad acts on her. She was crying in pain at that time and his elder
brother fled away from his house.” However, during his cross-examination he
admitted that he has not stated so before the investigating officer. P.W.-9, who is
the investigating officer, has also deposed that PW 4, Sri Indra Sapagai, has
stated has not stated before him that he saw the victim in complete naked
condition and _ injury in the private parts of the victim and semen on her body. He

has also not stated that her father has committed bad acts on her and she was

 
Page 12 of 17

crying in pain at that time and his elder brother fled away from his house. In view
of such contradictions in the testimony of PW 4, Sri Indra Sapagai becomes
unreliable. More so, when he has himself stated that due to the partition of
ancestral property the relationship between him and his elder brother is not

conducive.

31. Similarly, the testimony of PW 5, Smti Josoda Devi, who is the wife
of the PW 4, can also not be relied upon as she has also not stated before the IO
what she has stated before this Court. The contradiction in her statement is
proved by the IO when he deposed that “PW 5 has not stated before him that she
came to the place of occurrence of offence and she saw the victim girl lying in
naked condition. He has also stated that PW 5 also did not state before him that
victim told her that her father did bad acts with her’. The submission of learned
Legal Aid Counsel that because of the contradictory statement of PW 5, Smti

Josoda Devi she is not a reliable, cannot be brushed aside.

32. Though, it is stated in the FIR that the accused was caught red-
handed, none of the other witnesses have deposed that they had seen the

accused committing rape on his daughter.

33. Regarding the confession of guilt by the accused, though PW 2,
Smt. Niva Devi, has stated that the accused has confessed his guilt and his
confessional statement is in custody of Secretary of Development Committee Sri
Narayan Adhikari, however no such statement could be produced during trial by
the prosecution side. As regards testimony of PW-6 and PW-7 that the accused
confessed his guilt before the villagers, learned Counsel for the accused has
argued that none of the witness has deposed that the accused confessed his guilt
before him. He has also submitted that as no witness has stated that the accused
confessed the guilt before him and that the accused nowhere has admitted that
he made such a confession. Learned Counsel for the accused has also argued that
there was no attempt on the part of the investigating officer to get the
confessional statement recorded by a judicial Magistrate and, therefore, the
evidence regarding confession should not be relied upon. I see logic and force in

the submission made by learned Counsel for the accused

 
Page 13 of 17

34. Learned legal aid Counsel has also submitted that the P.W-1, Dr. Sangeeta
Sharma, who examined the victim on police requisition, during investigation, has
also deposed that the victim resisted the examination of her private parts and
therefore should no opinion as regards sexual assault could be given. She has also
stated that the victim did not give any history of sexual assault before her. Ld.
Legal aid counsel has submitted that as the victim is mentally retarded as found
on examination by the Doctor, her uncorroborated statement should not be relied

upon for the purpose of giving conviction to the accused.

35. Thus, the other prosecution witnesses who adduced the evidence in
support of the prosecution case suffers from one or other weakness making their
testimony unreliable for convicting the accused person. Now let me look at the
testimony of the victim girl (P.W.-3). The victim is the daughter of the accused
and there is no denial of this fact. She has categorically stated that on the night of
incident she slept with her father. She has deposed that when she was sleeping,
the accused forcibly committed sexual intercourse with her. She has deposed that
the accused also groped her breast .she has also deposed that she suffered

injuries on her private parts.

36. Now the question arises, how far this submission of the learned
legal aid Counsel that as the victim has resisted her medical examination, on this
ground alone her testimony should not be relied upon, is acceptable. It is true that
if victim had consented for her medical examination by the doctor, the picture
would have been clearer and there would have been probability of corroborative
medical evidence, however, merely because the victim resisted her medical
examination and therefore has testimony should not be relied upon, in my
considered opinion, do not appear to be reasonable. It is true, that because of the
inherent inconsistencies, pointed out in foregoing paragraphs, the other
prosecution witnesses could not be relied upon, however, the same may not be
the case with the PW-3, who is the victim in this case. Learned Legal Aid Counsel
for the accused has vehemently argued that the victim is a mentally retarded
person and she was tutored by her uncle and aunt, who want to exclude the
accused from taking share in the ancestral property, to give evidence against her

father. On perusal of the cross examination portion of P.W-3 it appears that she

 
Page 14 of 17

had stated that "she has deposed before this Court as taught by her aunty who
has accompanied her to the court on that day” , however, she has not stated
anywhere that she has deposed falsely before this Court or what she has stated
was not true. She has not stated that her aunty taught her to depose ‘falsely’
before this Court. The doctor who examined her has stated that though she
appears to mentally retarded person she is able to communicate properly. Merely
because she has stated that she has deposed before this Court ‘as taught by her
aunty’ who has accompanied her to the court on that day, I’m not inclined to
believe that she has stated falsely as when her statement was recorded by judicial
Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C (Ext.-6) then also she had stated that the accused, who
is her father, had sexual intercourse with her as a result of which she suffered
pain. The doctor was examined the victim has stated that the gait of the victim on
the date of examination was “waddling”. The defence side has not made any
attempt to find any contradiction the statement of the victim by putting the same
before the investigating officer when he was examined. I see logic and force in
the submission of learned public prosecutor that no daughter would make a false

statement of rape against her own father.

37. For the reasons stated in foregoing paragraphs, though I am not
inclined to rely on the testimony of other prosecution witnesses, I find no reason
to disbelieve the testimony of PW-3, who is the victim in this case. There are
innumerable judgements of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, which I refrain
myself from reproducing here, to the effect that uncorroborated testimony of the
Prosecutrix can be relied upon for the purpose of giving conviction in sexual
offences. In the instant case also for the reasons stated hereinbefore, I rely upon
the testimony of the victim in this case where she has clearly stated, during trial
as well as while giving statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C, that her father has committed

sexual intercourse with her.

38. For the reasons stated above, I hereby hold that the accused Sri
Loknath Sapagai has committed penetrative sexual assault on “the Victim” and
thereby committed offence under section 6 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012. In my considered opinion the charge under section 6

of POCSO Act is proved against the accused person. The accused Sri Loknath

 
Page 15 of 17

Sapagai is accordingly convicted under section 6 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

39. I am of the considered opinion that the victim has suffered severely
both mentally and physically due to the offence committed upon her by her own
father and therefore, she needs adequate support for her rehabilitation. This
Court, therefore, recommends that under the facts and circumstances of this case,
the Victim may be compensated with an amount of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees twenty
thousand only) u/s 357 (A) of Cr.P.C from the Victim Compensation Scheme of the
State of Assam. The District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur, is requested to do
the needful for paying the said amount to the “victim” from the Victim

Compensation Scheme, within two months from the date of this Judgment.

40. The accused has been convicted section 6 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, where minimum punishment prescribed
is 10 years imprisonment and which may extent up to life imprisonment and also
fine. I have heard the accused, in person, on the point of sentence. He has
pleaded that he is an old person of 60 years of age. He has also pleaded that he
has two minor children from another marriage and they are dependent on him.
He has pleaded for leniency. I have also heard learned counsel (Legal Aid
Counsel) for the accused who has submitted that considering the old age of the
accused, a lenient view may be taken. The learned Public Prosecutor has
submitted that though the victim in this case is a minor and though the Special
Act i.e. POCSO has been legislated to act as a deterrent, however, he has also
submitted that considering the old age of the accused, the Court may perhaps
take a lenient view of the matter. Considering the fact that minimum prescribed
punishment under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012, is itself sufficiently deterrent, I am of the considered opinion that
imposing minimum punishment prescribed in law would serve the ends of justice.
I, therefore, sentence the accused Sri Loknath Sapagai to undergo Rigorous
Imprisonment for 10 (ten) years with a fine of Rs. 1000/- (one thousand) in
default Simple Imprisonment for 1 (one) month section 6 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The period of detention already under

gone, by the accused shall be set off from the sentence imposed.

 
Page 16 of 17

41. The accused /convict has been informed about his right to appeal
against this Judgment before the Hon’ble Gauhati High Court. Let a copy of this

Judgment be given free of cost to convicted accused immediately.

42. Let a copy of this order be forwarded to the District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this day the 21°
day of August, 2015.

( M. K. Kalita )

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(M. K. Kalita)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me :

(R.Hazarika), Steno
Page 17 of 17

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 = Dr. Sangeeta Sharma, M.O.

Prosecution Witness No.2 i= Smt. Niva Devi, informant,

Prosecution Witness No.3 os Victim.

Prosecution Witness No.4 if Sri Indra Sapagai

Prosecution Witness No.5 - Smt. Joshada Devi,

Prosecution Witness No. 6 - Sri Narayan Sapagai @ Sarma,
Prosecution Witness No.7 - Smt. Bhubaneswari Devi @ jibaneswari,
Prosecution Witness No.8 i Dr. Halimuddin Ahmed.

Prosecution Witness No.9 in Sri Powal Hazarika I.0O.

Prosecution Witness No.10 i Smt. Dhireswar Baishya, Bench Asstt to

the SDJM, sonitpur, Tezpur.

EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 1 ‘- Medical report.
Exhibit 2 ‘= Ejahar
Exhibit 3 - X-ray report.
Exhibit 4 '- Sketch map
Exhibit 5 ' Chargesheet
Exhibit 6 es 164 Cr.P.C statement of victim.

( M. K. Kalita )

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
