]

IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SPECIAL JUDGE...... BIINI.

Present: N.U. Ahmed,
Addl. Special Judge,
Bijni.

_ Special(P) case No.14(B)2019
U/S 376 (2)(i) of the IPC, R/W section 6 of the POCSO Act.

THE STATE OF ASSAM
VS «

Sahinur Mondal..... Accused.
Z-_ SEE

  

 

A “Wdvocate for the prosecution : Mr. P. Dev Ray, Learned Addl. P.P.
“SAY x Bw “Advocate for the defence : Mr. S. K. Das, Learned Advocate.

~ Date of charge : 17-09-2019
Date of evidence : 26-09-19, 09-10-19 & 13-11-19
Date of Argument : 18-11-19.
Date of Judgment : 18-11-19,

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 22.07. 19, informant Nurul Islam lodged
an FIR with the I/C Borobazar O.P alleging inter-alia that on 21.07.19 at about 1.00 p.m.
accused Sahinur Mondal called his 14 years 7 months old daughter (name withheld here
in after known as victim “X”) with an inducement to marry her and took her on the bank
of river Sidli and committed penetrative sexual assault. One Moijuddin saw the incident
of penetrative sexual assault and he tried to catch the accused but he fled away. Said
Moijuddin asked his daughter about the incident and his daughter reported to him that
accused person with a promised to marry her committed penetrative sexual assault on

   

her. Hence, the present case.

\\\ 8

\\ : sv. On receipt of the FIR, I/C Borobazar forwarded the same to O. C. Bijni P. S. to
\ ath register a case. On receipt of the same O. C. Bijni PS Case registered a case being No.
2

vo v* 242/18, U/S 376(2)(i) of the IPC, R/w Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act and started investigation.
2

During investigation I. O. visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of
witnesses, recorded the statement of victim girl under section 164 of the Cr. P. C. by
Judicial Magistrate and after completion of investigation 1.0. submitted charge sheet
against the accused Sahinur Mandal u/s 376(2)(i) of the IPC R/W section 6 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ( in short here in after called as
POCSO Act)

a. After receiving the charge sheet cognizance was taken u/s 376(2)(i) of the IPC,
R/W section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, against the
accused Sahinur Mandal and started a Special (P) case. Copies of the relevant documents
were furnished to the accused Person as per provision of section 207 of the Cr. P. C. After
hearing both the sides learned Advocate and on perusal of case record charge was framed
A. ; SES US 376(2)(i) of the IPC, R/W section 6 of the POCSO, Act, 2012 and the contents of

| Ne zbharge was read over and explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty

at

Claimed to be tried.

  

During trial prosecution side examined aS Many as seven witnesses including
<—F Be informant and the victim. Accused was examined u/s 313 of Cr. P. C. and recorded his
statement in separate sheets. The defence case was of complete denial and the defence

side has not adduced any defence evidence.

5. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of both sides. I have

gone through the case record as well as evidence on record.

POINT FOT DETERMINATION .

6. (i) What was the age of victim “Xx” at the time of occurrence?
(iii) Whether the accused person committed rape on the victim “Xx” on 16-07-19
and 21-07-19 at Bhauraguri under Bijni P. S.?
(iv) Whether the accused on the aforesaid date, time and place committed

penetrative sexual assault on victim “Xx”?

Na ge
w \ sv : DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASON THEREOF:
1G

cv".
\ SP nt
A. uN
ni

   

Fs To bring home the charges the prosecution examined seven witnesses including

the informant, M.O and victim. Let me scrutinize the evidence on record to decide the
  

points.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

8. P.W.1, Nurul Islam, is the informant of this case. PW1 in his deposition has deposed
that victim “X” is his daughter. He knew the accused Sahinur Mandal. On 21-07-19 at
about 4/4.30 P.M he returned home from Bijni and found that his daughter “X” was not
at home. They made search of his daughter and his daughter was found near a canal of
the village. They also found Sahinur Mandal along with his daughter. His son-in-law
Moijuddin Ali and Sanowar Hussain interrogated his daughter and she reported to them
that she was gossiping with accused Sahinur near the canal. Thereafter, he lodged the
FIR. He proved the FIR as Exhibit-1 and Exhibit-1(1) is his signature. He further stated
that at the time of occurrence the age of his daughter Nilima Begum was 14 years 7
months. During investigation police seize one School Certificate of his daughter Nilima
Begum and he put his signature in the seizure list. He proved the said seizer list as Ext.2
“0 on =. and Ext.2(1) is his signature.

During his cross-examination, he stated that due to misunderstanding he lodged

t
2

P.W.2, Moijuddin Ali, in his deposition has deposed that informant Nurul Islam is
his father-in-law. Victim “X” is his sister-in-law. He knew the accused Sahinur Mondal since
from the date of occurrence. About 2 months ago, one day his father-in-law Nurul Islam
telephone him at about 1/1.30 p.m. and asked him whether victim “X” gone to his house.
He replied that victim “X” has not come to his house. Thereafter, his father-in-law called
him to his house to find out victim “X”. Thereafter, he and his another brother-in-law to
search his sister-in-law victim “X” went to the house of his father-in-law. While they were
searching victim “X” then they found victim “X” near a canal and after seeing them
accused Sahinur left the place of occurrence. From back side they saw accused Sahinur
Mondal. Thereafter, they took victim “X” to his father-in-law’s house. They kept victim “x”
in her house and left his father-in-law’s house. Thereafter, his father-in-law filed this case.
During investigation police seized one school certificate of victim “X” and he put his
signature in the seizure list. He proved the seizer list as Ext.2 and Ext.2 (2) is his signature.
10.  P.W.3, Abed Ali, in his deposition has deposed that he know the informant who is
his co-villagers. He also know victim “X”. He knows the accused Sahinur Mondal. In the
month of July of this year, one day he heard that victim “X” and accused Sahinur was
we joffound together near the drain. Thereafter, Nurul Islam lodged the FIR. Police went to the
Se . place of occurrence and asked him about the incident.
During his cross-examination, he stated that he had not seen the incident.

a 11. P.W.4, is the victim “X”. P.W.4 in her deposition has deposed that about 6 months
 

4

ago she had love affair with the accused person. She further stated that about 2 months
ago one day at about 1.00 P.M. she and accused Sahinur was talking by sitting on the
sildong while they were talking then his brother-in-law Moijuddin saw them and reported
to her father and her father filed this case. She further stated that after filing the case
Police took her to court and recorded her statement. She prove her statement as Ext.3
and Ext.3 (1) and Ext.3 (2) are her signature.

During her cross-examination, she stated that on the tutor of her brother-in-law
she has given statement before the Magistrate. She further stated that no physical
relationship established between her and the accused person.

12. —_P.W.5, Niren Ch. Rabha, in his deposition has deposed that on 22.07.19, he was
working at Borobazar O.P as in-charge. On that day, he has received a written FIR from

one Nurul Islam. On receipt of the FIR he entered the same in the general diary of the

He_SESV0P and made G.D entry No. 374 dated 22.07.19 and forwarded the FIR to the O.C Bijni

s 4 ~ . NG 'S for registration of a case. He took the charge of investigation himself. He went to the

{ : 2 ( [ & ak e of occurrence, visited the place of occurrence, drew the sketch-map of the place of
= o\ 24 be urrence and recorded the statement of witnesses and brought the victim girl before
\ \ WEG e court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. He sent the victim girl to J.S.B Civil
at BY Hospital for medical examination and seized one School Certificate of victim girl. he proved

the seizer list as Ext.2 and Ext.2(3) is his signature. he further stated that O.C Bijni P.S
registered a case being No. 242/19 and entrusted him for completion of the investigation.
Thereafter, he collected the medical report of the victim girl. The accused surrendered
before the court and the court sent him to jail hajot and he interrogated him in the
Abhayapuri Jail premises. After completion of investigation he submitted charge-sheet
against accused Sahinur Mondal u/s 376(2)(i) of the IPC R/w Sec. 4 of POCSO act. He
proved the charge sheet as Ext.4 and Ext.4(1) is his signature.

During his cross-examination, he stated that he went to the place of occurrence
on 22.07.19. He could not say the boundary of the place of occurrence as because the
sketch map prepared by him has misplaced. Defence side put suggestion to him that he
had not prepared the sketch-map, which he denied. Defence side also put suggestion to
him that without proper investigation he filed charge-sheet against the accused person,

which he denied.

a P.W.6, Dr.(Mrs) Dipali Bordoloi Manta, in her deposition has deposed that on
23.08.19, he was working at JSB Civil hospital as SDMO. On that day, he had examined
Victim “X", aged 14 years 7 months, Vill- Bhawraguri, P.S Bijni. Dist-Chirang (Assam) and

   

she was escorted by WPC Chayanika Das and her father Nurul Islam. She examined her
5

in connection with Bijni P.S Case No. 242/19 u/s 376(2)(i) IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act.

On examination she found the followings:-
a. History of the Patient kidnapped on 21.07.19 at 1 p.m. and returned home at
5 p.m. same day.
Physical Examination:-
a. Height- 4’1”
. Weight- 30 Kg.
Teeth- 7/7 7/7

. Scalp hairs- present.

Pubic hairs present.

b
C
d
e. Axillary hairs present.
f
g. Beards, moustaches and body hairs- Nil.
h

. Breasts- develop.

   

We 7 “A b. Menstrual cycle- Regular.
c. Last menstrual period- 06.07.19.
Genital Examination-
a. Hymen- absent.
b. Vagina 1 f. dip.
Evidence of venereal diseases- Nil.
d. Evidence of injury on her body or private parts- No any injury or violent mark
present in her private part.
€. Vaginal smears taken on glass slides for laboratory investigation advised.
General mental condition-
a. Co-operation and behavior good.
b. Intelligence and memory good.
c. Gait normal.
Report of Radiological investigation Skiagram bone age is less than 18 years as the lower
epiphyses of the radius and ulna are not fused.
Result of Laboratory Investigation-
WW 33? a. Vaginal swab test for spermatozoa not seen.
ov 3 Opinion:-

 

2 .
so ant It could not been ascertained that the girl is physically assault or not. She further
Bs stated that Ext.5 is the Medical Report and Ext.5(1) is her signature.
 

iy} x

6

14. P.W.7, Habibur Rahman, is the bother of informant Nurul Islam. PW7 in his
deposition has deposed that he know the accused Sahinur Mandal. He also know the
victim girl who is his niece. About 3 months ago, he heard that Sahinur Mondal committed
rape on victim girl. Except this, he did not know anything about the case.

During his cross-examination, he stated that after 3/4 days of the incident, he
heard about the incident. He heard about the incident from his brother. Defence side put
suggestion to him that from his brother he had not heard about the incident, which he
denied.

15. From the evidence on record it reveals that there is no dispute regarding age of
the victim girl. From the evidence on record it reveals that the age of the victim girl at the
time of occurrence was 14 years 7 months. So, I have nothing to hesitate to hold that at
the time of occurrence age of the victim “X” was below 15 years and she was child as
define u/s 2(d) of the POCSO Act.

16. Next, we should decide whether the accused person committed rape or committed

aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim “X” or not. In this regard the evidence

 
  
 

f PW4 i. e. victim “X” is very much important. PW4 in her evidence nowhere stated that

ult on her on two occasion but during cross-examination she clearly stated that no

XY eee x au . : : ‘ .
Nor a Sic relationship established between her and with the accused person. From the

sat
B\s

— evidence of PW4 it also reveals that she had love affair with the accused and on the date

f

of occurrence she was gossiping with the accused near the river and on seeing them in a
position of talking, her father lodged the FIR. She also stated that she had given statement
before Magistrate on the instruction of her brother-in-law. PW1 is the informant of this
case. PW1 though in the FIR stated that accused person committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim “X” but PW1 in his evidence nowhere stated that accused person
committed penetrative sexual assault on victim “X”. As per statement of FIR, PW 2 saw
the incident of penetrative sexual assault, but PW2 in his evidence nowhere stated that
he saw the accused and victim “X” in a compromising position. PW4 made a contradictory

statement as such her evidence is not reliable. Moreover, though the PW1 and PW4 had

Ni not supported the prosecution case but the prosecution has not declared them as hostile

iS

”

witnesses. The medical evidence also negated the penetrative sexual assault on victim
W) 5 we So, considering the entire evidence on record, I find that the prosecution side failed
- on _ to prove that accused person had committed rape or aggravated penetrative sexual
." ¥ gu assault on the victim “X”. Therefore, I have nothing to hesitate to hold that the prosecution

failed to prove the charges against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
 

7

17. From the discussion made above, I find that the prosecution failed to prove the
charges leveled against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, accused Sahinur
Mandal is found not guilty u/s 376(2)(i) of the IPC R/W Sec. 6 of the POCSO Act and he
is acquitted from the charges and set him free at his liberty forthwith.

18. Send a copy of the judgment and order to the District Magistrate, Chirang as per
provision of section 365 of the Cr. P. C.

19. Considering the fact and circumstance of the case, I find that this is not a fit

\ VEN
No \ Bail bond furnished by the accused person shall remain in force till next six months
ve m today as per provision of section 437-A of the Cr. P. C. Return the seized document
x B\ yw Ho the informant in due course of time.
Given under my hand & seal of this court on this the 18% day of November, 2019.

  
  

Ww
nN
Dictated and cor cted by me, a
A Additio oF ugg,
Addl. Specia
Addidati Maddetudze Bijtijni
Typed by.
Proshanta Dev Roy,
Stenographer Gr. III
 

 

APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

PW1- Nurul Islam.

PW2- Moijuddin Ali.

PW3- Abed Ali.

PW4- Victim “xX”.

PW5- Niren Ch. Rabha.

PW6- Dr.(Mrs.) Dipali Bordoloi Manta
PW7- Habibur Rahman.

(B) Prosecution exhibit-

Ext.1- FIR
Ext.2- Seizure List.

Ext.3- statement of victim girl u/s 164 of the Cr. P. C.

Ext.4- Charge-sheet.
Ext.5- Medical Report.

(C) Defence witnesses- Nil.
(D) Defence exhibit- Nil.

 

)

Ji
Auda &pacia,udge,

AB Ril
