IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, AJS
Special Judge,

Bilasipara

Special (POCSO) Case No- 06 of 2018

u/s 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act

State of Assam

-Vs-

Ahidur Rahman @ Ohidur Rahman Seikh

Date of framing charge

Date of recording evidence

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Advocates Appeared:

For the State of Assam

For the defence

eveees accused person
I 05-01-2019
I 25-03-2019
13-05-2019
- 22-05-2019

I 22-05-2019

:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam

:- Smti Syeda Afroza Akhtar

Ld. Advocate for the accused.

JUDGMENT

1. This case is under section 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual

Offences Act. So, the name of the victim is not mentioned here and she is

referred to, hereinafter, as ‘x’.

Contd. to page no.-2
[2]

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Sadhan Saha, the informant,
lodged an ejahar with the Bilasipara police station on 24-04-2018 informing
that ‘x’ is his daughter who was 9 years old. She studied under the accused
Ahidur Rahman @ Ohidur Rahman Seikh as tuition. On 24-04-2018 at about
08.30 a.m in the morning ‘x’ went to the house of Mohan Lal Saha for that
purpose. After end of tuition, the accused asked the other students to leave
the tuition house and kept ‘x’. The accused laid ‘x’ on the floor and
attempted to commit rape on her.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused.
3. The Bilasipara police station received the ejahar and registered as
Bilasipara police station case no. 391/2018 u/s 8 of Protection of Children
from Sexual Offences Act. The case was investigated and having found
prima facie u/s 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
prepared the chargesheet and laid the same before the court for trial.
4. The accused Ahidur Rahman @ Ohidur Rahman Seikh, hereinafter
called as the accused, appeared in this case and he was furnished copy.
Charge was framed u/s 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act against the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the
accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined only 4 (four) witnesses, namely-

1. Sadhan Saha PW-1
2. ‘x’/ the victim PW-2
3. Sima Saha PW-3
4. Mohan Lal Saha PW-4
6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was

recorded where he denied all allegations leveled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution witnesses and also declined to adduce evidence

in defence.
7. Heard argument for both sides.
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i. Whether accused on 24-04-2018 at about 08.30 am at Bilasipara

W/N-14, under Bilasipara PS, committed sexual assault on ‘x’ aged

Contd. to page no.-3
[3]

about 9 years old by undressing her and undressing himself with
sexual intent which involves aggravated sexual assault?
DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF
9, In this prosecution case P.W-1 Sadhan Saha is the informant, P.W-2
‘x’ is the alleged victim and P.W-3 Sima Saha, P.W-4 Mohan Lal Saha are
independent witnesses.
10. Since P.W-1 Sadhan Saha is the informant and P.W-2 ‘x’ is the
alleged victim, so both the witnesses are prime witnesses in this case. So,
let's see the evidence of this two witnesses.
11. P.W-1 Sadhan Saha has stated in his evidence that he is the
informant in this case. ‘x’ is his daughter. The accused was the tuition
teacher of his daughter ‘x’. One day his daughter returned to house in tears.
He asked his daughter why she wept. His daughter did respond. He went to
the accused. The accused told him that he rebuked her and she fell down on
the stair. He suspected the accused to do something else on his daughter
and accordingly he lodged the ejahar, Ext-1.

In his cross P.W-1 has stated that the accused did not misbehave his

daughter. He lodged the ejahar due to misunderstanding.
12. P.W-2 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that the informant is her father.
The accused is her tuition teacher. The accused did nothing against her. She
did not know why her father lodged ejahar against the accused. She gave
her statement before the Magistrate. Ext-2 is the said statement.

Cross examination of P.W-2 was declared by the defence.

13. Thus, careful scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-2 it appears that
P.W-1 being the informant brought no incriminating evidence against the
accused. Rather P.W-1 has made it clear that he lodged the ejahar Ext-1 due
to misunderstanding with the accused.

Same is the evidence of P.W-2 ‘x’, the alleged victim. She evinced

without any hesitation that the accused did nothing against her. She also
reiterated that she did not know why his father lodged the ejahar against the
accused. So, P.W-2 has also brought no allegation against the accused.
14. In the ejahar P.W-1 scribed that the accused laid ‘x’ on the ground
and attempted to molest her. But in his evidence, he had adduced in
different way. There found great gulf between the content of the ejahar Ext-
1 and the evidence adduced by the P.W-1. This contradiction is a vital and it
may shroud the prosecution case with doubt.

Contd. to page no.-4
[4]

15. Now let us see the evidence of independent witnesses.

P.W-3 Sima Saha has stated in her evidence that in the morning she
saw ‘x’ coming home in tears. On being asked ‘x’ told her that she fell on the
Stairs.

P.W-4 Mohan Lal Saha has stated in his evidence that one day when
he saw ‘x’ in tears, he enquired ‘x’ and she replied that she fell down on the
Stair.

16. Thus, minute scrutiny of evidence of P.W-3 and P.W-4 shows that
both the witnesses have categorically stated in their respective evidence that
‘x’ fell down on the stair, so, she returned home in tears. The evidence of
P.W-3 and P.W-4 doesn’t divulge that the accused did anything to ‘x’. There
is no evidence adduced by the P.W-3 and P.W-4 that the accused made
nude or did physical contact with ‘x’.

17. In view of above all, it appears that the prosecution evidence is not
sufficient and reliable to prove the offence as alleged against the accused.
The prosecution evidence is found dearth of merit.

18. The prosecution, thereby, failed to prove its case u/s 10 of Protection
of Children from Sexual Offences Act against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt.

19. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 10 Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act.

20. Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

The bail bond of accused stands cancelled and bailor is discharged
from liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 22" day of May
2019 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)
Special Judge, Bilasipara
Transcribed & typed by,

S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.

Contd. to page no.-5
[5]

APPENDIX
PROSECUTION WITNESS:-
P.W-1 Sadhan Saha
PW-2 ‘x’/ the victim.
PW-3 Sima Saha
PW-4 Mohan Lal Saha

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Ejahar,
Ext-2 Statement of ‘x’/the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C .

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT WITNESS 3 NIL
COURT EXHIBITS i NIL

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
