Page 1 of 13

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. i 65 OF 2017

(Under Section 493 of the IPC read with
section u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, arising
out of G.R. Case No. 3955/2017)

Present :- Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

Prosecutor State of/Assam
=-VS-
Accused :-_ Md. Sadiqul Islam @ Sahidul.
Son.of Md. Abdul Rajek
Resident of Akabasti
Police Station — Chariduar
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
Date of framing Charge -- 02/01/2018
Date of Recording Evidence :- 06/04/2018, 27/04/2018,

14/05/2018, 05/07/2018,
04/08/2018 & 06/08/2018.

Date ofvexamination of accused u/s 31 :- 14/08/2018

Cr.B&

Date of Argument :- 06/09/2018

Date of Judgment :- 07/09/2018

Counsel for the Prosecution :- Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Counsel for Accused :- Mr. B.K. Basumatary, Advocate.
Page 2 of 13

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md. Sadikul Islam is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 493 of the IPC read with section 4 of
the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that for last
6 months from the date of filing of the ejahar, accused Sadikul has love
affairs with informant’s daughter, Miss X and they have thereafter
physical relation for many times. It is stated that Sabikul with a lure to
marry her indulged in sexual activities with. the,daughter of the
informant. At present informant’s daughter became, pregnant. When he
was asked to marry her, Sadikul threatened her with dire consequences.

Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the,informant Abdul Hasim before the
O/C of Chariduar police stationson 11-10-2017. On receipt the ejahar,
the Officer-In-Charge-of\Chariduar Police Station registered the case
vide Chariduar P.S/.Case No. 231/17 u/s 376/506/493 of IPC. After
completion of usvaleinvestigation, the O/C Chariduar Police Station filed
charge sheet, u/S, 376(2)(i)/506/493 of the IPC read with section 6 of
POCSO ‘Actagainst the accused Md. Sadikul Islam.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both ‘parties, I framed charge u/s 493 of the IPC read with section 4 of
the POCSO Act, against the accused Md. Sadikul Islam and particulars of
the charge was read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads

not guilty and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined as many as
8 (eight) witnesses. After completion of prosecution evidence, accused
was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the
accused and evidence appears against the accused are put before him
for explanation where he denied the allegation and evidence and

declined to give defence evidence.

 
Page 3 of 13

6. I have heard arguments put forwarded by learned advocate of
both the parties.

7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) “Whether on or about 11-10-2017, at about 5 p.m.,
at Akabasti gaon under Chariduar Police station, the
accused by practicing deceit, caused a certain woman,
to wit Miss X , who was not lawfully married to the
accused to believe that she was lawfully married to the
accused and in that belief, cohabit©or have sexual
Intercourse with the accused and\that the accused
thereby committed an offence punishable U/S 493 of
the IPC ?

(3) “Whether on the ‘same, date time and place the
accused committed\penetrative sexual assault on "Miss
X” (victim) <and thereby committed an_ offence
punishable. under section 4 of the Protection of Child

from Sexual Offences Act?
Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To. arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence

on record)

9. PW 1 Md. Abdul Hasim, the complainant of this case, stated that
thexincident took place about 6 months ago in the year 2017. Victim is
his daughter. On the day of incident, his daughter went to the house of
her elder sister and on the way accused met her and he dragged her
towards the jungle and raped her. Then, he lodged the ejahar before
Chariduar police station regarding this incident, where he put thumb
impression. Police took his daughter for medical examination and then
to the Court for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. Police

recorded his statement.

In cross-examination, he admitted that he does not know the

date of birth of his victim daughter. He has three daughters and three

 
Page 4 of 13

sons. Osman Ali is his eldest son. Sadir Ali next to him, Kitab Ali next to
Sadir. Osman is aged about 25/26 years old. Sadir Ali one year Junior to
Osman, Kitab Ali is also one year Junior to Sadir. His victim daughter is

next to Kitab Ali. Victim is two years junior to Kitab Ali.

10. PW 2, Musstt Firoja Khatoon, stated before this court that she
knows the accused. Abdul Hasim is her husband and the victim is her
daughter. The incident took place about 6 months ago in the year 2017.
At the time of incident, her daughter was 15 years old, On the day of
incident, when her victim daughter was returning from herelder sister’s
house, on the way, accused dragged her .towdrds\the jungle and
committed rape on her. After that, the accused made her belief that he
will marry her. She came to know about the incident from her daughter.

After that her daughter become pregnant.

In cross-examination<she admitted that there is a distance of
about 11/2 km from their house and the house of accused. She has three
daughters. One of Aierxdaughters Rabia Khatoon was married to one
Asgar Ali who is ‘resided. near her house. Sadiqul used to go outside for
his works. Priontoethe incident, he was at Bangalore. Few days prior to
the incident, he,came to his house, but, she cannot recall how many
days, before he came. Her victim daughter reported that before one
month ofethe day of incident, her Menstrual Cycle was closed. She does
not know if her victim daughter has love affairs with the accused. About
30/35 years ago, she has married to her husband Abdul Hasim. She
cannot recall when the victim girl was born after her marriage. Victim is
her own daughter and she is her first child. She cannot say the exact

age of her victim daughter.

11. PW 3 Miss X, the victim, stated that she knows accused Sadiqul
Islam. The incident took place about 7 months ago. At the relevant time
she went to her elder sister Rabia Khatoon’s house. Then, accused took
her towards the jungle from the road and committed rape on her.
Accused by opening her clothes and committed bad act (rape) on her.

Thereafter, her menstrual cycle has stopped for two months. Then, she

 
Page 5 of 13

reported about the incident to her mother. Her mother reported the
matter to her father. Thereafter, her father filed this case. After
instituting the case, police examined her medically, recorded her
statement and also sent to the learned Magistrate for recording her
statement under Section 164 CrPC. Then, she narrated the whole
incident to the learned Magistrate. Ext. 1 is her statement under Section
164 CrPC and Ext. 1(1) and Ext.1(2) are her signatures. I.O has
collected her birth certificate where the date of birth is written as 15-05-
2013.

In cross-examination, she admitted that ‘acused loved her, but,
she did not love him. Her elder sister got married long back. She read
up to class-V. She has given up school\four years ago. Before the
incident took place, she has given ‘up school. The distance between the
place of occurrence and her elder sister’s house is about 1 km. There
are many people resides near theyplace of occurrence. As they love each
other, so, according to“her will, the accused meets her. Accused had
physical relation with\hertwice. Prior to incident of this case, there were
other such incident took place earlier. After two months of the incident,
her menstrual cycle stopped. As they have loved each other, so,
accused “proposed to marry her. After the incident, they convened a
village, meeting. In the said meeting, the villagers advised her to
compromise the matter. Accordingly, they have compromised the case.
She’ does not have any grievances against the accused Sadiqul. She
does not have any objection, if the accused is enlarged on acquittal

from this case.

12. PW 4 Musstt Ayesa Khatoon deposed that she knows the
accused. The incident took place about 6 months ago. She also knows
the victim. At the time of incident, she is 15/16 years old. She came to
know from the mother of victim Firoza that the menstrual cycle of her
daughter was stopped. On being asked the victim girl by her mother,
she told that accused Sadiqul committed rape on her. So, her menstrual

cycle was stopped. Then, mother of the victim informed her about the

 
Page 6 of 13

incident. She knows that there is a relation over phone in between the
accused and victim. She met the victim along with the accused in her
house. On being asked, victim told that out of fear she did not disclose
about the affairs with the accused. Thereafter, Firoza the mother of the

victim has filed the case.

In cross-examination she stated that victim is her adjacent
neighbor. Sadiqul was at Banglore prior to one month of filing of this
case. She heard about the incident from the mother of\the victim after
20 days of filing of the case. Victim girl used to visit her house quite off
and on. Prior to that day, she never disclosed.about,the said affairs she
has with the accused. She does not have any personal knowledge about

the incident.

13. PW 5 Mustt Rosida Begum\stated that she knows accused
Sadiqul Islam. She also knows the complainant Firoza and her daughter.
At the time of incident, victim was 16 years old. One day victim came to
the house and charged -hersmobile phone and thereafter she called
someone from her mobile. She does not know to whom she ring from

her mobile phone:

14. «PW256 Dr. Amarjit Kaur stated that on 13-10-2017 she was
posted, aS, working as Sub-Divisional Medical & Health Officer in the
Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at about 1.45 p.m. in
the*labour room complex of KCH, she examined Hasina Khatoon, 15
years, D/O Abdul Hasim of Akabasti gaon, PS Chariduar, in reference to
Chariduar PS Case NO. 231/17 u/s 376/506/493 of the IPC, on being
escorted and identified by WHG Jamini Das, vide Hospital Registration
No. 78779/E/17. She was examined in presence of GNM Manika Dutta.

On examination he found the following:

Identification mark : a black spot on the plam on the
base of the thumb.
Menstrual history : regular cycle, LMP 12-09-2017

History of sexual exposure : present.

 
Page 7 of 13

At the time of examination, she was well dressed, neat and tidy with
average built. Young girl. Her gait was normal. Her Secondary sexual
characters were well developed. Vulva, vagina healthy. No mark of
injury seen on her body as well as on her private parts.Hymen absent.
Height — 144 cm, Weight — 42 kg, Teeth — 14/14.

Vaginal smear was taken and sent for examination.
Investigation advised and report:
1. Vaginal smear report — sperm not seen. KCH\lab No. 136/17
dated 13-10-2017.
2. Urine for HCG — report not received.till ‘date.
3. X-ray for left elbow joint, wrist joint andMliac crest.
Inference : Age of the «person under investigation
appears to be below 18 years.
4. USG Pelvis — normalgpelvictorgan with non gravid uterus.
X-ray and USG done at AXCAL, Patient ID AXC 941 dt. 17-10-
2017, Radiologist Dr. P?Ky Barman.

OPINION: . 1:. There was no signs and symptoms of recent sexual
intercourse.

2.4 No mark of violence was seen on her body as well as
in her private parts.

3. Actual Age of the victim under investigation appears to

be below 18 years.

4. Victim girl was not pregnant.

Enclos: 1. vaginal smear report, 2. USG flims and report,

3. X-ray plates and reports and 4. Advice Slip.

Ext. 2 is the Medical Report and Ext. 2(1) is her signature. Ext. 3
is the Advice slip and Ext. 3(1) is her signature. Ext. 4 is the X-ray
report and plates and USG report with films and Ext. 4(1) is the
Signature of Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist. Ext. 5 is the vaginal smear
report of KCH and Ext. 5(1) is the signature of technician of KCH,
Tezpur. Generally spermatozoa may be found in sexually intercoursed

case is upto 48 hours from the time of intercourse.

 
Page 8 of 13

15. = PW 7 Sri Dwijumoni Sarmah stated that on 11-10-2017 he was
posted as SI of police at Chariduar Police station and on that day one
Abdul Hasim filed one written ejahar. The said ejahar was registered by
the then O/C Chariduar PS being Chariduar PS Case No. 231/17 u/s
376/506/493 of the IPC. After registering the case he was entrusted to
investigate the case. In the said ejahar the complainant put thumb
impression. Ext. 6 is the said ejahar and Ext. 6(1) is the signature of
then O/C Satish Sahoo which is Known to him. On that very day he has
recorded the statement of the complainant at the poliea, station and in
the next day he has visited the place of occurrence. He has also
prepared the sketch map of the place of ogeurrence and recorded the
statement of witnesses, namely, Firoja Khatoon, Rashida Khatoon,
Ayesha Khatoon and victim Hasina Khatoon. ‘At the relevant time the
victim was a minor. Ext. 7 is the ‘sketch map and Ext. 7(1) is his
signature. He has also collected one school certificate of the victim
where it is stated that hér date of birth was on 15-05-2003. On 13-10-
2017 the victim was’sentsto%KCH, Tezpur for medical examination and
she was also sent to the learned court for recording her 164 Cr. P.C.
statement. Om23-10-2017 the accused Sadiqul Islam surrendered
before the police station. He has also collected the medical report,
statement™u/s 164 Cr.P.C. of the victim and on completion of usual
investigation he has filed chargesheet vide chargesheet No. 149/17
dated’ 30-11-2017 against the accused Sadiqul Islam u/s 376(2)
(1)}/506/493 of IPC read with section 6 of the POCSO Act. Ext. 8 is the
charge sheet and Ext. 8(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination, he stated that in the First Information
Report was registered by the O/C wherein in 3 No. point (B) occurrence
of offence/date is mentioned as before 6 months, time — not noted. The
victim stated that the occurrence took place before 6 months from the
date of filing of the FIR.Ext. 6 is silent about the cause of delay in filing
the ejahar. The victim was accompanied with her mother to the court
for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. After receipt of ejahar, he

did not visit the place of occurrence. He has not recorded the statement

 
Page 9 of 13

of the officer who issued the school certificate of the victim. According
to school certificate seized, the date of birth of the victim is 15-05-2003.

The statement of Abdul Hasim was recorded in the police station.

16. PW 8 Smt. A. Rahman, stated that On 13-10-2017 she was
posted as Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur and on
that day in reference to Chariduar PS Case No. 231/17 u/s 376/506/493
of the IPC one girl namely, Miss X, aged about 16 years, D/O Abdul
Hasim of Akabasti Bengali gaon, PS Chariduar was produced before her
for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.. She ‘has‘recorded the
statement of said girl at the court chamber. ‘The victim girl made
statement voluntarily. At the time of recording her statement there was
none other than her and the victim witnessa The victim was identified
and escorted by woman Home Guard Yamini Das. After recording her
statement she read over the contents of statement to the victim and on
acceptance, she put signature thereon. Ext. 1 is the said statement of

victim girl and Ext. 1(3)"is her*signature.
17. | These much is the evidence of the prosecution.

18. The accused pleads total denial while his statement was

recordedsu/s.313 Cr.P.C. he also denied to give defence evidence.

19.) Tehave heard the arguments put forwarded by learned counsel of
both sides.

20. Here in this case, the charge is framed u/s 493 of the IPC read
with section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused. To prove the charge

u/s 493 of the IPC, the prosecution must prove —

(i) that the accused caused the woman in question to

believe that she was lawfully married to him;

(ii) that he induced that woman to cohabit with him
under that belief:

(iii) that he caused such belief by deceit.

 
Page 10 of 13

21. Law is well settled that the offence u/s 493 consists in giving a
false assurance of the marriage to the girl and thereby procuring sexual
intercourse with her, but here in this case according to the victim who
admitted in her cross-examination that they have loved each other so
according to her own will accused met her and had physical relation
with her. Even prior to the incident, there are other incident took place.
She even admitted that she does not have any grievances against the
accused and she has no any objection, if the accused is enlarged on
acquittal. Therefore, the victim herself gives good, bye to the
prosecution case, as such, the allegation of charge u/S“493 of the IPC is
failed.

22. Similarly, to bring the charge underssection 4 of the Protection of
Child from Sexual Offences (POCSQ) Act)yprosecution must prove the
ingredients mentioned in section 3 ofthe POCSO Act.

Section 3 of the POCSO Act quoted as follows:

Section .3._ Penetrative _ Sexual
assault, = A. person is said to commit
"pemetrative.sexual assault” if -

(a) he.penetrates his penis, to any extent,
into ‘the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus
of.a child or makes the child to do so
with him or any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a
part of the body, not being the penis,
into the vagina, the urethra or anus of
the child or makes the child to do so
with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of
the child so as to cause penetration into
the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of
body o the child or makes the child to do
so with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis,
vagina, anus, urethra of the child or
makes the child to do so to such person
or any other person.

23. But in this case as stated above, the victim admitted in cross-

examination that before the incident she had given up the school and

 
Page 11 of 13

she also admitted that they love each other so according to her own will
accused met her and accused had physical relation with her twice. Even
prior to the incident, there are other incident took place. She even
admitted that she does not have any grievances against the accused
and she has no any objection, if the accused is enlarged on acquittal, by
stating so she gives good bye to the _ prosecution § case.
24. Learned Public Prosecutor submitted that victim being minor,
her consent is no consent at all. On the other hand, learned counsel for
the accused submitted that prosecution has failed™to examine the
Officer who has issued birth certificate as seized™bsy prosecution,
therefore, prosecution has failed to prove=the \documents which is
required to be proved by the person who isstied jit, as such, there is no
evidentiary value of the alleged certificate. \\On the other hand, doctor
opined that the victim was below, 28 years. Learned counsel for the
accused relying upon the Judgment of Hon’ble Supreme Court titled as
Jai Mala Vs. Home Secretary, Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir and
others AIR 1982 SC\1297 wherein it has been observed by Hon’ble
Supreme Court that margin of error in age ascertained by radiological
examination¢two ‘years on either side. Relying on the said Judgment
learnedecounselhfor the accused argued that if the margin of + 2 years
is takenNinscase of prosecutrix, certainly it cannot be said that she was
minor on’ the date of the alleged incident, as such, case cannot fall
underthe POCSO Act.

Keeping in mind the arguments advanced by the learned counsel
for both the parties and the documents as submitted by prosecution,

the victim’s age cannot be proved as below 18 years.

25. _ In view of the aforesaid discussions, I am bound to hold that the
prosecution has failed to prove any of the charge levelled against the
accused person beyond any reasonable doubt. As such, the accused Md.
Sadikul Islam is entitled to get acquittal on benefit of doubt. Hence,
accused Md. Sadikul Islam is acquitted and set him at liberty forthwith.

 
Page 12 of 13

26. =‘ The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

27. Send back the GR Case record being No.3955/17 to the learned

committal court along with a copy of this order.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 7 day
of September, 2018.

(A.Ki Borah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(AXK:\Borah)
Special, Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Transcribed and.typed by me.

(R. Hazarika)Steno.
Page 13 of 13

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 * Sri Abdul Hasim
Prosecution Witness No.2 - Musstt Firoja Khatoon
Prosecution Witness No.3 [- Victim
Prosecution Witness No.4 I Musstt Ayesha Khatoon
Prosecution Witness No.5 nee Musstt Rosida Begum
Prosecution Witness No.6 is Dr. Amarjit Kaur
Prosecution Witness No.7 = SI Dwijumoni.SarmahjI.O.
Prosecution Witness No.8 '- Smti A.Rahman, SDJM, Sonitpur,
EXHIBIT
Ext. 1 : 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim
Ext. 2-5 , Medical reports.
Ext. 6 : ejahar
Ext. Z : sketch map
Ext. 8 : Chargesheet.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR.
