Page 1 of 10

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR

SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 31 of 2017

Under section 448 of IPC read with section 8 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of G. R Case No. 1905 of 2017)

State of Assam

—Vs—
Md. Nur Jamal Hussain sit Accused Person

Present: Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State £ “\Mp\M.C. Baruah,
Special Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Mr. B. Borthakur, Advocate
Date of\Argument : 12-03-2019.
Date of Judgment : 26-03-2019.
JUDGMENT
Ls The prosecution case as has been unfurled in the FIR, is that

for last six months prior to filing the FIR dated 30-05-2017, accused Nur
Jamal used to disturb the informant’s daughter, aged about 14 years, by
talking some objectionable words and lastly, on 29-05-2017 at night
while all the family members of the informant including the victim were
sleeping, at around 10 p.m. accused came to his house and by opening

the door of the house proceeded near the victim girl and gagging her
Page 2 of 10

mouth attempted to commit her rape but on raising alarm by the victim
when he woke up and when he lit the light of his cell phone, the

accused fled away.

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.2) on 30-05-2017 from the
informant, the victim’s father, the Officer-in-charge of Thelamara PS
registered the case being Thelamara P.S. Case No. 66/17 u/s 448 of IPC
read with section 8 of POCSO Act and entrusted ASI Danda Dhar Kumar
to investigate the case. During investigation, the Investigating*@fficer
(PW 8) visited the place of occurrence, drew the sketchemap of the
place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the Witnesses) seized
one school certificate of the victim, sent the “victim “for medical
examination, got her statement recorded u/s 464 Gr.Px€., arrested the
accused and on completion of investigation having™feund materials, laid
chargesheet against the accused Nur Jamal Hussain u/s 448 of IPC read
with section 8 of POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of the ‘accused person before this Court, after
furnishing the necessary’ copies as required u/s 207 of Cr.P.C. and
having heard both parties, my learned predecessor, framed charge u/s
448 of IPC read with section 8 of POCSO Act against the accused Nur
Jamal Hussain and particulars of the charge on being read over and
explained to the*accused person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed for

trial.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as
nine’ witnesses. On closure of the prosecution evidence, statement of
the accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the accused denied
all the incriminating evidence that emerged against him and taking the
plea of enmity regarding land dispute with the family members of the
victim stated that the informant promising to sell their land to him, took
money from him, but neither land was delivered to him nor returned the
money and filed this case falsely.

5. I have heard the argument of the learned counsel of both sides

and also have gone through the materials on record.
Page 3 of 10

6. The points for decision in this case is that -

(1) " Whether the accused Md. Nur Jamal Hussain on 29-05-2017
at about 11 p.m., at Bhara Singri under Thelamara police
station committed criminal trespass by entering into house of the
informant and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 448 of
IPC?

(ii) Whether the accused committed sexual assault on the victim and:
thereby committed an offence punishable under section 8 of POCSO
Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

7. Mr. M. Baruah, the learned Special Public’ Prosecutor
strenuously argued that the materials on record undoubtedly project a
case of sexual assault on the victim girl. He further‘submitted that the
evidence of the child victim of sexual assault iSsenough to convict the

accused person.

8. Controverting the saidgargument? Mr. B. Borthakur, the learned
counsel appearing for the.accused, Submitted that no explicit reliance

can be placed upon the evidencerof the victim.

9. Now, théxquestion is whether the accused committed any
offence on the’ victim. In this respect, let me travel through the evidence

adduced, by the ‘prosecution side.

10% PW I is the informant as well as the father of the victim. He
deposed that prior to some months of the incident, accused Nur Jamal
taking advantage of being relative who is his related son-in-law started
to disturb his daughter, aged about 15 years over mobile by saying
some bad words and the victim informed him about the same. He
testified that on the day of incident at night, at about 11.30 p.m. while
he along with his wife and children were sleeping in one bed and the
victim was sleeping in a separate bed in the same room, accused
entered into his room, gagged the mouth of his victim daughter and also
caught hold her in her bed. Then on raising alarm, he woke up and in

the light of mobile, he saw the accused Nur Jmal but seeing him the

 
Page 4 of 10

accused fled away. Thereafter, he chased the accused and on hearing
alarm, villagers also gathered at his house. He further stated that his
victim daughter informed him that accused Nur Jmal came to her bed,
gagging mouth said her (victim) that he came to take her. On the next
day morning, villagers convened a meeting regarding the incident but
the accused did not turn up. Thereafter, on the next day evening, he
lodged the FIR.

During cross, he stated that one Amir Ali informed the’matter
to police. He further deposed that the charge-sheeted witnesses are the
residents of 3/ 4 km away from his house but his adjacéat‘weighbouring
witnesses namely, Amar Ali, Musha, Gandu, Billal, Bulal\Bakra, Hokku,
Sabed Ali and Taribuddin did not come to his houseyat the time of
incident. He stated that his house is a thatched‘houseé with jute wall and
doors. His house is comprised of only one\room and there are two beds
in the room the distance of which,only one ft. He clarified that he along
with his wife and two children@wete sleeping in one bed and in another
bed the victim slept. He also stated that the door of the room was
closed by “Salakha” fromeimside Which can be opened only from inside.
He further stated that'the night was dark and the accused being their
relative used to, visit*their house quite off and on. He admitted that as
per transfefcertifieate which he submitted to police, his victim daughter
was more*than)17 years one month at the time of incident. He admitted
the dispute between him and the accused regarding purchasing a plot of

land.

It. PW 2 Abu Bakkar Siddique deposed that on the next day
morning, the father of the victim girl informed him that on last night at
around 10/11 p.m. accused came to his house with intent to rape his
daughter. He further stated that on being asked the victim at the
meeting, she also reported that at about 9/10 p.m. accused entering
into her room, kept his hand upon her body which was witnessed by her
father.
Page 5 of 10

12. PW 3 Md. Amir Ali who turned hostile deposed that on the
night at around 11.30 p.m. one of his neighbour rang him 2/3 times and
on receiving the call, the neighbour informed her that accused entered
into the room of the informant with intent to commit bad act with the
victim. Regarding the incident there was a commotion. On the next day
a meeting was held but he was not present there. On the very night, he

informed police to which O/C asked him to come at 9 a.m.

During cross by defence, he stated that on receiving hisyphone
call at night, police came at 9 a.m. and before police he stated that at
night there was hulla regarding entering the accused ifto‘the house of

the informant.

13. PW 4 Md. Jalaluddin deposed that froemwillagers he heard that
accused Nur Jamal entered into the house of the victim with intent to
commit her rape regarding which, a/meeting was held but he did not

attend the meeting.

14, PW 5 Md. MojiburéRahman, also declared hostile by prosecution
side, who stated that he‘kiew, nothing about the incident as at that time

he was in Kerela.

15. PW 6 isthe victim herself. She stated that the accused married
her cousin sistersand for last six months prior to the incident, accused
used«to \disturb her proposing to marry her but as the accused had
already two wives, hence she did not agree. She further stated that the
aceused disturbed her since a long time and hence when she went to
school, she never had gone alone. She testified that when she was
sleeping in a bed in the room where her parents were also sleeping in a
separate bed, accused came, hold her neck and breast. Then she woke
up and raising alarm called her father. Then her father had seen the
accused in the light of torch of mobile. She also saw the accused but
then the accused fled away. She proved her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
as Ext.1.

 
Page 6 of 10

During cross, she admitted that though police sent her to KCT,
Tezpur for examination but she refused to get examine. She stated that
at the time of incident her 12/13 years old younger sister was also
sleeping with her and the bed where she slept was at a distance of 7/8
ft away from the other bed where her parents slept. She further stated

that police did not seize the mobile by which they had seen the accused.

16. PW 7, another hostile witness Babur Ali, deposed that ¢rom
villagers he heard that accused entered into the house of the Wietim “at

night.

17. PW 8, Danda Dhar Kumar, the InvestigatingeOfficer™ deposed
that on 30-05-2017 on receipt of an FIR, the case*waSyregistered and on
being entrusted him to investigate the case, he visited the place of
occurrence, drew the sketch map of the. place of ‘occurrence vide Ext. 3,
recorded the statement of the witnessesxincluding the victim and
informant, seized one school certificateof victim vide Ext.4, sent the
victim to hospital for medica? examination, got recorded her statement
u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and ong€oncllsion of investigation submitted charge-
sheet against the accused Md. Nur Jamal Hussain u/s 448 of IPC read
with section 8 of ROCSO “Act. He confirmed the statement made by
hostile witness PW 3, PW 5 and PW 7.

During cross, he stated that on 30-05-2017 the FIR was lodged
at¢nightwwand accordingly, on the next day morning i.e. on 31-05-2017 he

went to the place of occurrence.

18. PW 9 Miss B. Khakhlary, the then Judicial Magistrate, 1‘ class,
Tezpur deposed that on 31-05-2017 she recorded the statement of the
victim in reference to Thelamara PS Case No. 66/17 u/s 448 of IPC read
with section 8 of POCSO Act. She proved her signature in the statement
as Ext. 1(3) and order dated 31-05-2017 as Ext. 7 wherein Ext. 7(1) is

her signature.

19 In this case, in the FIR the informant (PW1), who is the victim’s

father claimed the age of the victim as 14 years but he being the father

 
Page 7 of 10

of the victim who is the best person to say the age of the victim, during
cross, admitted that as per school certificate at the time of incident the
victim was more than 17 years one month old. The seized school
certificate reveals that the date of birth of the victim is 08-04-2000. So
on the day of incident i.e. on 29-05-2017 she was more than 17 years
one month old. It is in the evidence of the I.O. that after seizure of the
original school certificate, it was handed over to the informant_by
keeping a Xerox copy and as such, the Xerox copy of the schgol
certificate is available in the record. The original school certificate is’not
proved during trial. Prosecution also did not examine the NisSuing
authority of the seized certificate to prove the samemMoreover, in this
case admittedly the victim refused for medical examination for which her
age could not be ascertained by RadiologiealNtest!) In the above, it
cannot be safely held that the victim was below“the age of 18 years at

the time of incident.

20. In the above circumstances, let us see the other factual aspect
of the case. In this case¢admittedly the parents of the victim were
sleeping in one bed andwimeanother bed the victim was sleeping in the
same room. The wictimydepdosed that on that day she was sleeping with
her 12/13 years.old younger sister in one bed when at a distance of 7/8
ft away in ‘anotherebed her parents and two children were sleeping but
according’to the victim's father, the distance between two bed is only
oné ft:\Purther according to the informant his house is a thatched house
with jute wall and door and they used to close the door by “Salakha”
which can be opened only from inside. Though the victim and her father
stated that the accused entered into the room but there is no evidence
as to how the accused entered into the room when the door was closed
from inside on that night. There is no iota of evidence that the accused
by pushing or breaking the door or wall entered into the room.
Moreover, in this case, the two other most natural witness i.e. the
victim’s mother and her sister who was sleeping with the victim were

not examined by the prosecution.

 
Page 8 of 10

21. Regarding sexual assault, the victim in her evidence stated that
the accused entered into the room, hold her neck and breast whereas as
per evidence of her father accused entering into his room, gagged the
mouth of his daughter and caught hold his daughter on bed. He did not
state that accused hold the breast and neck of the victim girl. Though
the victim, in deposition alleged that the accused hold her breast but ‘in
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she stated that when the accused €ntering
into her room hold her neck with his hand, she called her father and
then the accused pressed her mouth and saying that ‘he‘is Nur Jamal
asked to remain silent. Taking the evidence of the victim,ifthe accused
identified himself by saying his name that he.came to take her why
again she claimed that she had seen the accUsedsin the torch light of
mobile. Moreover, during cross the_victim’s father also stated that
though he switch on the mobile but the light of the mobile was not gone
on. His evidence creates doubt¢regarding seeing the accused in the light
of torch of mobile. Gagging’ Mouthyof the victim is also not supported by
the victim herself duriagwdeposition. Moreover, in this case, it is in the
evidence of the informantsthat being a close relative the accused quite
off and on used to visitsyhis home. So, the situation of the room where
the informant, “his*wife, four children including the victim used to sleep
in twOsbed, was well known to the accused. In such situation, it is not
believable that the accused would enter into the room to commit sexual

assault.

22. Taking the evidence of the victim that the accused hold her
neck even if accepted, it cannot be said that he entered into her room
with intent to commit any sexual act, and making improvement of the
case in the FIR, it is alleged that the accused attempted to commit her
rape. In this case, enmity between the parties regarding purchase of

land is also an admitted fact.

 
Page 9 of 10

23. Under such circumstances, the entire prosecution story is found
not to be trust worthy. The evidence of the victim is not of sterling
quality as is required in a case of sexual offence to warrant conviction.
Her evidence does not inspire confidence. When the victim’s evidence
and surrounding circumstances does not support the prosecution case,
there is no other alternative but to give the accused the benefit of
doubt.

24. In the light of above discussion and in the given facts. and
circumstances of the entire aspect of the matter, I am of the considered
opinion that the prosecution case is doubtful and the aceused isjentitled
to get the benefit of doubt.

25. Accordingly, the accused Nur Jamal, Hussain is acquitted on
benefit of doubt from the charge u/s 8¢of POCSO Act and set him at

liberty forthwith. His bail bond shall rémain tmforce till next six months.

The seized documentébe) returned from whom the same was

seized.

26. Judgement_is ‘pronounced and delivered in open court under
the Seal and signature of this Court on the 26" day of March, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

 
Prosecution witnesses.

1. PWil1
2. PW2
3. PW3
4. PW4
5. PW5
6. PW6
7. PW7
8. PW8
9. PWYI
Exhibits.

Ext. 1

Ext. 2

Ext. 3

Ext. 4

Ext. 5

Ext. 6

Ext. 7

S

Page 10 of 10

: Father of the victim.
: Abu Bakkar Siddique
: Md. Amir Ali

: Md. Jalaluddin

: Md. Mojibur Rahman
: victim girl

: 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the

: FIR SY

: Sketch map

: Seizurelist. «S

: cman
Ea

Tee
oO
s
RS
S

: Aabur Ali ~\
: Dana Dhar Kumar, I.O.
: Miss B. Khakhlary, JM,1* class, Tez Ve

lajuli PS Case No. 66/17

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

 

Special POCSO Case No. 31 of 2017
