eae

vL

anv’

wo®
=D
nee

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No, 04/201

(Under Section 366(A) of I.P.C. R/W Section 4 of the POCSO Act)

State
Versus

Jiten Gouri aneecee eee Accused.

PRESENT: Shri D. Bhattacharjee, AJS,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Particulars and Appearances :-

For the State :- Shri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the Accused :- Shri A.F. Choudhury, Ld. Advocate.
Dates of recording prosecution evidence:- 26.03.2018, 04.04.2018, 18.04.2018 &
03.10.2018.
Date of recording statement U/S 313 Cr.P.C.  :- 15.11.2018.
Date of Argument :- 15.11.2018.
Date of Judgment :- 16.11.2018.
JUDGMENT
i, The prosecution case, in brief, is that one Champa Bhumiz

lodged an FIR with the In-charge, Jamira Police Patrol Post alleging that on
1.2.2017 her minor daughter Mallika Bhumiz, a student of Class IX went to
attend Saraswati Puja in her school but she did not return. Subsequently, she
learnt that the accused Jiten kidnapped her daughter with the help of accused
David Khasia.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Ramnathpur PS Case No. 28/2017
was registered under Sec. 366 of IPC and SI Sri P. Deka was entrusted to
investigate the case. During investigation, police visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statements of witnesses, recovered the victim girl, got her medically
COMA, cssesseees P/2.
Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 04/2018
«Ju

examined and also got her statement recorded by a Magistrate under Sec. 164,
CrPC. After completion of investigation submitted charge sheet against the
accused Jiten Gour under Sec. 366(A) of IPC.

3. On appearance of accused, the Ld. Judicial Magistrate,
First Class, Hailakandi in compliance with Sec. 207 of CrPC furnished copies of
relevant materials to the accused and the offence being exclusively sessions
triable, committed the case to this Court.

4, After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record, having been
found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed
the offence, formal charge has been framed against him under Sec. 366(A) of
IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012. The charge so framed was read over
and explained to the accused, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

5, The prosecution in order to prove its case examined 5
PWs. The defence plea is of total denial. The accused person was examined
under Sec. 313, CrPC wherein he denied all such incriminating materials brought
against him by the prosecution and pleaded innocence. The defence declined to

adduce any evidence.

6. Heard argument of Ld. Public Prosecutor and Ld. Defence
Counsel.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(t) Whether on 01.02.2017 in the evening at about 2 P.M. under
Ramnathpur P.S., the accused person kidnapped the victim, minor daughter of
the informant, with intent that she may be or knowing it likely that she will be
forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby committed an offence
punishable under Section 366(A) of I.P.C.?

COMED. syvasennens P/3.
i T= 1
=:

(II) Whether the accused person after kidnapping the victim
committed penetrative sexual assault on her and thereby committed an offence
punishable under Section 4 of the POCSO Act?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. The PW. 1, Mallika Bhumiz, the victim of this case has
deposed that she used to talk with the accused over phone as the accused used
to reside in the house of one David Khasia. On the relevant day, she went to
school for Saraswati Puja and thereafter she went to the house of accused at
Alombag, Cachar where she stayed for one day, which she had informed to her
mother over telephone. Police got her medically examined and also got her
statement recorded by Magistrate vide Ext. 1. She has further stated that at the
relevant time, she was 17 years of age. She has further stated that she went
with the accused on her own will. The accused did not commit any bad act with

her.

In cross examination, the victim has stated that she
wanted to marry the accused but her parents were not agreed to the same. Now,
she and the accused both are major and would marry each other.

8. The PW. 2, Malati Bhumiz has stated that the victim is her
sister. On the relevant day, she went to school to attend Saraswati Puja and at
that time, she was reported by a boy that her sister was found missing. After 2
days, she came to know that the accused and her sister had been apprehended
by the local people of Alombag. Thereafter, her mother lodged an FIR and police
recovered her sister. After 2/ 3 days of her recovery, she was reported by her
sister that the place where she stayed in the house of accused is a very nice
place and she likes to stay there.

In cross examination, she stated that she cannot say the
date of birth of her sister.

9. The PW. 3, Champa Bhumiz has deposed that the victim is
COPING, vcnitois cave P/4.
ial (P T-1 No. 04/201
-4-

her daughter and she is the informant. About one year back on the day of
Saraswati Puja, the victim went to her school but did not return home and during
search, she was informed by the people that they saw the victim and the
accused going in a car. Thereafter, she lodged the FIR. On the next day, police
recovered her daughter from the house of accused. On being asked, her
daughter told her that she went the house of accused as she wanted to marry
him and at that, she advised her daughter that she was still minor and the
accused is not a man of her community and as such, she would not give her

marriage with the accused.

In cross examination, she has stated that she did not see
the incident and she cannot say the date of birth of her daughter.

10. The PW. 4, Dr. R. Begum has deposed that on 3.2.2017
she examined the victim and found no evidence of recent intercourse, no mark of
violence on her body or private parts and the age of the victim was found above
16 years and below 18 years.

In cross examination, she has stated that the age was

determined as per ossification test.

11, The PW. 5, SI Sri Putul Deka has deposed that he
investigated the case and submitted the charge sheet against the accused under
Sec. 366(A), IPC.

In cross examination, he has stated that the school
certificate which he had seized was not verified of its genuineness. He did not

examine any person from in and around the place of recovery of the victim.

12. In the backdrop of above evidence, it is appeared that the
police seized one photocopy of school certificate of the victim vide Ext. 3 in which
the date of birth of the victim has been shown as 5.11.1999 and as per that
calculation, it is appeared that at the relevant time, the victim was more than 17
years and less than 18 years of age but most surprisingly, the Investigating
COMA vreseesviee P/5.
ial (P T- 4/201
-5-

Officer did not take any step to ascertain the genuineness of the said school
certificate, nor did he produce the original of it before this Court. The
Investigating Officer (PW.5) very categorically stated in his cross examination
that he did not verify the genuineness of the school certificate. Therefore, it is
difficult to act upon the said school certificate. Now, coming to the radiological
age of the victim from the Ext. 5, medical report, it is revealed that at the
relevant time, the victim was aged above 16 years and below 18 years. The
proposition of law is settled that the margin of error in radiological age is 2 years
in either side. Hence, if the age of the victim is taken as above 16 years, applying
the principle, it is appeared that at the relevant time, the victim was aged more
than 18 years, Therefore, it is held that at the time of occurrence, the victim was
a major girl.

13. The PW. 1, victim as well as the other witnesses has very
categorically stated that on the relevant day of Saraswati Puja, the victim went to
school for Puja wherefrom she went with the accused to his house but the
accused did not commit any bad act with her and she slept separately from the
accused. It is surfaced from the evidence that the accused is weil known to the
victim and if the victim on her own will went to the house of accused for
roaming, the responsibility cannot be fixed upon the accused. From the above
evidence, no evil intention of the accused has been found to take the victim to
his house and therefore, the provisions of law under which the accused person
has been charged are not at all applicable in the instant case. For the sake of
argument, if it is taken as true that the victim went to the house of accused and
stayed there for one night, it would not come in aid of the prosecution as in the
preceding paragraph it has been held that the victim was a major girl at the
relevant point of time and she on her own will went with the accused.

14, Accordingly, it can be safely held that the prosecution has

failed to prove its case against the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt.

COMM. .cccsecseee P/6.
Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No, 04/2018
6:

15. The accused person Jiten Gour is acquitted of the
offence under Section 366(A) of IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO
ct. Set him at liberty forthwith.

16. The bail bond of the accused person stands discharged.
17. The Special (POCSO) case is disposed of accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 16"

day of November, 2018 at Hailakandi.
(Ls

Special hal
Hailakandi.

Dictated and corrected by me: SPECIAL JUDGB
HAILAB AND)

Special Judge, Hailakandi.
SPECIAL JUDGB
HAILAKANDI

Dictation is taken and transcribed by Baharul Islam _Choudhu
Stenographer Grade — I.

 

COMED. sveinsenees P/7.
Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 04/2018
a

Appendix :-

Oral Evidences :-
PW-1, Victim.

PW-2, Maloti Bhumiz.
PW-3, Champa Bhumiz.
PW-4, Dr. R. Begum.
PW-5, Sri Putul Deka.

Documentary Evidences :-

Ext.-1, Statement of victim.

Ext.-2, Seizure list.

Ext.-3, School certificate.

Ext.-4, Ejahar.

Ext.-5, Medical report.

Ext.-6, FIR Form.

Ext.-7, Sketch map of the place of occurrence.
Ext.-8, Charge Sheet.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

 

Hailakandi.
SPECIAL JUDGB
HAILAKANDI
