-|-

IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, BAJALI,
PATHSALA

Spl. POCSO Case No. 03 of 2019
U/S - 18 of POCSO Act, 2012.

State
- Versus -

Hitesh Roy
: Accused person.

Present :

Sri L.K. Saikia, AJS.
Additional Sessions Judge, Bajali, Pathsala.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Smti. Dhira Devi Ld. Addl. P. P.
For the accused persons : Sri Giridhar Choudhury. Ld. Advocate.
Dates of recording evidences : 22-08-2018, 27-08-19.

Date of recording statements u/s 313 Cr.P.C. : 27-08-2019

Date of Argument : 27-08-2019.

Date of Judgment : 27-08-2019.

J UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that, the informant as well
as victim of this case lodged an ejahar on 15-07-2017 with the In-
Charge, Sarupeta Police Out Post alleging, inter-alia, that on 15-08-
2019 at about 6.30 pm while she was alone in the house then the
accused entered into her house and disrobed her cloths with intent to
commit bad act. Then she raised hue and cry and ran towards the
outside of the house. The accused person also chased her armed with
-2-

sharp weapon. After sometime she rushed to the house of her
neighbour and took shelter there. She also stated that at the time of
happening of the incident she was a student of class VIII. Hence, this

case.

2. On receipt of the ejahar a case was registered as
Patacharkuchi P. S. Case No. 563/17 u/s 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 and
police investigated into the matter.

3. During investigation police visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statements of witnesses including the victim girl,
produced her before the Court wherein the Ld. Magistrate recorded her
u/s 164 Cr.P.C, arrested the accused person and forwarded him to the
court and after completion of investigation, having been found prima-
facie case, the I/O sent up the accused for trial by filing charge sheet
u/s 18 of POCSO Act, 2012.

4. On being summon the accused was appeared before the
Court for trial and the copies were furnished to him. After hearing both
the parties, framed charge under section 18 of POCSO Act, 2012 and
the accusation of charge was read over and explained to him, to which
he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined 2
(two) materials witnesses and after examination prays to close the
prosecution witnesses, as there is no chance of further development of
this case. After closure of prosecution case, the accused person was
examined u/s 313 of Cr. P. C. wherein he denied all such allegations
leveled against him by the prosecution witnesses. The defence plea is
of total denial. The defence side has not adduced any defence

evidence.

6. Heard argument of learned Addl. P. P. and the learned
defence counsel. Perused the record.

7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person on 15-08-2017 at about 6.30
p.m. Entered into the house of informant with an ill motive and
-3-

caught hold on her, putting off her wearing cloths and thereby
committed an offence punishable u/s 18 of POCSO Act ?

Discussions, Decision, and Reasons thereof

 

8. PW 1 Smti Jonli Das has deposed that about 2 % years
back the victim came to her house by running and behind her the
accused person also came. On being asked the victim told that the
accused person chased her with intent to kill. In cross-examination
PW 1 stated that the victim and the accused person have been living in
the same house and he behaved her as his sister. She does not know
what had happened in between them. She also does not know whether

the victim is maintaining relation with the accused or not.

9. PW 2 victim as well as the informant in this case deposed
that on 15-08-17 at about 3 pm while she was alone in the house and
was bathing and changing her wearing clothes then the accused
suddenly came to their house and seeing his appearance, she came
out from the room in a nervous state. She stated that the villagers
suspected her with the accused and made rumor in the village for
which she lead to file this case for satisfaction of the villagers. She
stated that nothing had happened against her so police did not take
her for medical examination.

In cross-examination, the victim stated that she has good
relation with the accused who is her cousin and he did not do anything
with her. The FIR was drafted by another person and she does not know
the contention of the FIR. Due to misunderstanding of a fact and
instigation of the villagers she had filed this case. She has no objection
if the accused person would be acquired from this case.

10. The learned counsel for the accused submitted that the
star witnesses of the prosecution i.e. the alleged victim has been
examined and from her evidence it was revealed that it was a case of
misunderstanding and as instigated by the villagers she filed this case
implicating the accused. Therefore, the learned defence counsel
contended that it is a fit case for recording acquittal.
-4-

11. Heard the rival submission of the Ld counsel and perused
the case record and also gone through the provision of law.

12. On fastidious scrutiny of the case record as well as the
evidence of the witnesses it comes to light that the instant case has
been filed due to misunderstanding of a fact. On the day of incident
while the victim was alone in the house and was bathing and changing
her wearing clothes then the accused suddenly came to their house
and seeing his appearance, she came out from the room in a nervous
state. As per the instigation of villagers she had filed this case but
nothing had happened to her, even the accused did not misbehave her
at any point.

13. In view of the discussion held above, no inference can be
drawn against the accused person but to set free from the alleged
charge that committed by the accused person.

14. Accordingly, the accused Hitesh Roy is acquitted of the
offence charged u/s 18 of POCSO Act, 2012 and set him at liberty
forthwith.

15. A copy of this judgment and order be given to the the
District Magistrate, Barpeta u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

16. The Spl. POCSO Case is disposed of accordingly.

17. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court
in presence of both the parties and | put my hand and seal of this Court
on this 27th day of August, 2019.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
Dictated & Corrected
by me

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
-5-

APPENDIX :-

Oral evidences :-
PW-1 Smti Jonali Roy
PW-2 Victim

Documentary evidence :-

Ext.-1. Ejahar

Defence evidence.

Nil.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
