 

T a N 1/201
U/S - 376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act

State
- Versus -
Siddique Ahmed Mazumder @ Safar TY Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D, Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance an articulars :-

For the State ‘- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person ‘- Sri A.H. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.
Dates of recording evidence -- 21.07.2018.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CPC: + 23.07.2018.

Date of Argument -- 23.07.2018.

Date of Judgment -- 23.07.2018.

JUDGMENT

The prosecution Case, in brief, is that on
22.08.2017 the informant Manik Uddin Mazumder lodged an
ejahar with the O/c, Hailakandi Police Station alleging that inthe
intervening night of 21.08.2017 and 22.08.2017 at about 1 AM
while his minor daughter, the victim, went out to attend nature's
Call, the accused person Sadik Ahmed Mazumder @ Safar Ali by
gagging her mouth took her to a lonely place and committed
rape on her and after committing rape, the accused left the
place.

Contd....P/2.
ecial (T 1) (POCSO) Case No. 01/2018.

ots
a: On receipt of the ejahar, the same was
registered as Hailakandi Police Station Case No. 511/2017 under
Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act and accordingly, police started
investigation of the case.

3. During investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, recorded statements of witnesses including the
informant, got the victim medically examined and also got her
statement recorded by the Magistrate and after completion of
investigation having been found prima facie case laid the charge
sheet against the accused person Sadik Ahmed Mazumder @
Safar Ali under Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act,2012.

4. On appearance of accused person, copies of
relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were
furnished to him.

> After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the
Ld. Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on
record, having found sufficient grounds for presuming that the
accused person has committed the offence, the formal charges
have been framed against the accused person Siddique Ahmed
Mazumder @ Safar Ali under Sec. 376 of the IPC read with Sec. 4
of the POCSO Act. The charges so framed were read over and
explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

6. In the instant case, the prosecution has
examined 2 Nos. of Pws including the victim and the informant o
of the case. Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public Prosecutor
and the Ld. Defence Counsel, the prosecution evidence was

Contd....P/3.

 
ial (T 1) (P ase No. 01/2018.
as

Closed. The accused person is examined under Sec. 313, Crec,
wherein he has_ denied the allegations levelled against him by
the prosecution. The defence did not adduce any evidence.

Z, Heard argument of both sides. Perused the

record.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION -

(i) Whether the accused person in the
intervening night of 21.8.2017 and 22.8.2017 at about 1.30 AM
committed rape upon the victim, daughter of the informant, as

alleged ?
(ii) Whether the accused on the aforesaid day,

time and place committed penetrative sexual assault on the
victim, as alleged ?

DISCUSSION, REASONS AND DECISION THEREOF :-

8. The PW. 1, informant Manik Uddin Mazumder
has deposed that in the year 2017 at one night at about 2 AM
while he was sleeping. his daughter viz. the victim, went out to
attend nature's call, the accused forcefully kidnapped her and
taking her near his house committed rape on her. Thereafter, he
lodged the Ejahar, Ext. 1 and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. He has
further stated that the victim was aged 16 years at the relevant

time.
(\~<0
fn In cross examination, the informant has stated

ye ‘ sopo8 that he had given the Marriage of the victim with the accused
b Oh
rE LARAND! and at present she is residing with the accused as his wife

happily. The victim had love affair with the accused. It is further

Contd....P/4.

 
Special (T 1) (POCSO) Case No. 01/2018.

-.

stated by the informant that he can not say the exact date of
birth of the victim and he has got no allegation against the

accused.
The PW.2, the victim, has stated that she had

love affair with the accused and on the relevant night, she went
with the accused on her own will without informing her father
and as such, her father filed the case. But subsequently, her
father gave her marriage with the accused and at present, she is
living with the accused happily as his wife. Police got her
medically examined and she also made statement before
Magistrate, which is Ext. 2 and Exts. 2(1) and 2(2) are her

signatures therein.
In cross examination, the victim has stated that

on being influenced by her parents, she made statement before
Magistrate and she can not say the exact date of her birth.

In the backdrop of above evidence, at the very
outset, the age of the victim girl is to be determined. The
informant has stated in his evidence in chief that at the relevant
time, his daughter was aged about 16 years old but in cross
examination, he has stated that he can not say her exact date
of birth, which suggests that the PW. 1 is not sure about the age
of the victim at the relevant time. The victim has stated that she
can not say her date of birth but on the date of deposition, she
has stated that her age is about 17 years. When a witness uses
the word ‘about” in respect of age, it implies that it may be more
or less. Therefore, it can not be said that at the time of incident,
the victim was aged 17 years or 16 years, it may be more than
16 or 17 years. Further, from the medical report available on

Contd....P/5.

 
Special (T 1) (POC Case No. 01/2018.

«Ss

record, it is revealed that her radiological age is above 16 years
and below 18 years. The proposition of law is settled that the
margin of error in radiological age is 2 years in either side.
Therefore, considering all aspects, it can be presumed that at the

relevant time, the victim was a major girl.

10. In the instant case, the prime witness is the
victim and her evidence bears much significance to prove the
alleged commission of the offence by the accused. The victim
was major at the relevant time and in her evidence she has
unequivocally divulged that at the relevant time, she went with
the accused on her own will without informing her father and as
such, her father lodged the case but subsequently, her father
gave her marriage with the accused and at present, she is living
with the accused happily as his wife and it appears that the
victim being major was a consenting party and accordingly, she
went with the accused. Though the victim in her statement, Ext.
2, recorded under Sec. 164, CrPC implicated the accused person
in the commission of the crime but in her evidence, the victim
has stated that on being influenced by her parents, she made
statement before Magistrate.

ii. Though the informant has implicated the
accused in his evidence in chief to some extent but in his cross
examination, keeping himself on the same footing, he has stated
that he has given marriage of the victim with the accused and at
present she is living with the accused peacefully and he has got
no allegation against the accused.

12. When the victim as well as her father, the

Contd....P/6.

 
Special (T 1) (POCSO) Case No. 01/2018.

«6s

informant, has not implicated the accused person in their
evidence with the commission of the alleged crime and since the
victim being major went with the accused at the relevant time
and is presently leading her conjugal life with the accused
happily as his wife, | do not find it appropriate to entangle the
accused person with the guilt of commission of the crime
alleged.

13, Accordingly, the accused person Siddique
Ahmed Mazumder @ Safar Ali is acquitted of the offence under
Sec. 376, IPC read with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. Set him at
liberty forthwith.

14. The bail bond of the accused person stands
discharged.

15. Send a copy of this judgment to the District
Magistrate, Hailakandi.

16. | The Special (POCSO) case is disposed of
accordingly.

i7. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the

open Court under the seal of this Court and on my signature on

this 23% day of July, 2018. Vg
Ur
-"
1 judee Hidllebandl

i
SPECIAL JUDGE

   

HAILAKANDI
i kan
SPECIAL JODGB
HAILAKANDI
Dictation i nan nscri h

Stenographer Grade I._ Contd.....P/7.

 
ecial e No.01/2018

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, Manik Uddin Mazumder.

PW. 2, The victim.

Documentary evidences :-

Ext. 1- Ejahar.

Ext. 2- Statement of the victim under Sec. 164, CrPC.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

 

Special Judge, Hailakandi.
SPECIAL JUDGB

HAILAKANDI

 

 
