Spl.(POCSO) Case No.40/2019

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: CACHAR.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.40 of 2019
(U/S 341 IPC and Sec. 8 and 12 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......cccccccsseecccecssssaessseeeessstseeees Complainant.
-Versus-

Ta Pan KUT DAS rissscccnncnansninacneenannnnnannsisias Accused person.

Charge framed On :m...........cccccccccccceteeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeetess 11/9/19

P.WS. @XAMINE ON ir... eceseeeeeeeeveueeveueeseveusavauss 25/11/19

Argument heard ON !- ou... eccccccccccccccceeeeeeeeeeeseeeeseeeees 25/11/19.

Judgment pronounced and delivered on:-..........0068 25/11/19.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : MrA.K.Ray, Ld.advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant Khirendra

Chandra Das lodged an FIR with the O/C Katigorah P.S. stating the facts
that on 29.06.19 at about 6-30 p.m. while the minor daughter of the
informant was going to the house of Biresh Chandra Das, uncle of the
informant , on the way the accused person pulled her hands and took her
on the way of river and thereafter the accused tried to outrage her

modesty. On hearing cry the wife of the informant went there and rescued
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.40/2019

the victim.

2. On receipt of the FIR, a regular PS case was registered vide
Katigorah P.S. Case No.421/19 U/S 341/354 IPC r/w section.12 of POCSO
Act. Police started investigation and during the course of investigation the
statement of the victim girl was recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. The victim girl
was also sent to SMCH, Silchar for medical examination. The investigating
officer visited the place of occurrence and prepared a rough sketch map.
He also recorded statement of the witnesses and subsequently after
completion of investigation submitted charge sheet against accused
persons U/S 341/354(A) IPC read with Section 12 of POCSO Act.

3. The offence u/s Sec.12 of POCSO Act of the case being
exclusively triable by the Court of Special Judge, this case was taken up for
trial by this court. In due course, upon appearance of the accused and
after hearing both sides formal charge U/S 341 IPC and Section 8 and 12
of POCSO Act was framed by this court against the accused person. The
charges having been read over and explained the accused pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(i) Whether the accused person on 29.06.2019 at about 6-30
p.m. wrongfully restrained the victim on the way, as alleged ?

(2) Whether the accused person committed sexual assault upon
the victim, as alleged ?

(3) Whether the accused person committed sexual harassment

upon the victim, as alleged ?
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.40/2019

ah During trial, prosecution side examined two witnesses i.e, the
victim and informant as PW.1 and PW.2. As per submission of Id. P.P. the
evidence of the prosecution side is closed. As no incriminating materials
appears to be found against the accused during evidence the recording of
statement of the accused U/S 313 CrP.C. is dispensed with. Defence

declined to adduce any evidence.

6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have

also heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF

Pe Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused

person as mentioned in point for determination.

8. PW.1 is the victim who is the prime witness of this case and she
deposed in her deposition that about 3/4 months ago from the date of her
deposition, the occurrence took place. On that day, there was a puja in the
house of sister of her father which she attended and the accused was also
present there. She further deposed that while she was about to return at
about 6/6.30 PM from the said puja at that time the accused slapped her
and told her to stay there till completion of the puja. She further more
deposed that as the accused slapped her, she reported the matter to her
father who later lodged this FIR. She also deposed that police took her to
SMCH for her medical examination and thereafter to Court wherein her
statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.40/2019

In her cross examination she stated that the accused is her
uncle. She further stated in her cross examination that when she was
brought to the Court several people of the locality including her family
members were also came with her and she gave her statement on the basis
of their advice. She categorically stated in her cross examination that the

instant proceeding was started due to misunderstanding of facts..

9. The informant Khirendra Chandra Das was examined as PW.2.
He deposed in his deposition that about 3 months ago, at about 6/6.30 PM
his victim daughter went to the house of his uncle Biresh Chandra Das to
attend Satsanga Puja. He further deposed that while he returned from his
duty victim told him that the accused slapped on her face. Thereafter, PW.2
lodged an FIR with the Katigorah PS. Ext. 2 is the FIR wherein Ext. 2(1) is
his signature. He further deposed that police had seized the original birth
certificate and thereafter police kept photocopy of the same and returned
the original birth certificate on zimma. Ext. 3 is the seizure list wherein Ext.
3(1) is his signature. He also deposed that the age of the victim was 13/14
at the time of occurrence.

In his cross examination the informant PW.2 stated he got the
FIR written by a villager and he cannot remember his name and that the
contents of the Ext. 1, the FIR was not read over to PW.2. He further stated
in his cross examination that he lodged the FIR due to misunderstanding of

facts and he has no grievances against the accused.

10. So, from the evidence of prime witnesses i.e. the victim PW.1
and the informant PW.2 it appears that they did not at all implicate the
accused person in the alleged offence of crime U/S 341 IPC and Sec. 8
and 12 of POCSO Act. Rather, both of them in their cross examination
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.40/2019

admitted that the instant case was lodged due to misunderstanding of facts.

11. Upon consideration of all the above aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/S 341 IPC and Sec.8 and

12 of POCSO Act against accused person —Tapan Kumar Das.

12. In view of the above, accused person is not held guilty and
stand acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty
forthwith. Bail bond stands discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court
on this the 25" day of November, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee,

Stenographer
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.40/2019

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 40 of 2019.

APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — victim
PW. 2 — Khirendra Ch.Das

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.1 - Statement

Ext. 2 — FIR

Ext.3 - Seizure list.

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.
