Special (POCSO) Case No. 11/2017

(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act)

State
-Versus-

Sumon Bhumiz ————__vannevene ves Accused.

PRESENT: Shri D. Bhattacharjee, AJS,

Special Judge, Hailakandi,

Particulars and Appearances :-
For the State :- Shi U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the Accused :- Shi R.A. Laskar, Ld. Lega! Aid Counsel.

Dates of recording prosecution evidence:- 22.11.2017, 06.12.2017, 02.01.2018,
25.01.2018, 27.07.2018 & 09.08.2018.

Date of recording statement U/S 313 of Cr.P.C. :- 23.08.2018.

Date of Argument :- 07.09.2018.
Date of Judgment :- 20.09.2018.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case is that the Hailakandi P.S. Case No.

536/2017 was registered under Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 on the basis of an
FIR lodged by Sri Jitul Borah, District Child Protection Officer, Hailakandi, alleging
that he received a complaint from one Santi Bhumiz regarding sexual assault on
her 11 years old daughter by none else but by the father of the victim. The
informant, mother of the victim submitted an application before Sri Jitul Borah,
District Child Protection Officer, Hailakandi, alleging that her husband committed
sexual assault on her daughter viz. the victim since one month before lodging the

COMED, crrecesnens P/2,
ecial (P se No. 11 7
2

application. It is further alleged that on 22.08.2017 her husband returned home
late night while she was asleep with her 4 kids — 3 daughters and 1 son and after
a few minutes, her second daughter screamed for help and asked to lit light,
after lightening the lamp, she found her daughter without cloths and her
husband with his pant zip open. Her daughter screamed and said that her father
was upon her body and put his private parts into her private parts. On seeing the
same, she pushed her husband from bed and she had to fight with him. In the
next morning, her daughter complained of bleeding and severe stomach pain,
which suggested that her husband had attempted penetrative sexual assault.
After 2/3 nights, her husband again attempted the same thing but her daughter
could not raise any hue and cry as because she was tightly gagged her mouth
but she alarmed by leg and when she (informant) woke up, she found the
accused committing sexual intercourse with her daughter. Then she kicked him
and as a result, he had beaten up her violently. It is further alleged that her
husband also did the same thing with her another daughter.

2. On receipt of the FIR, police set the investigation in motion
and visited the place of occurrence, prepared rough sketch map thereof, got the
victim medically examined, got her statement recorded under Section 164 of
Cr.P.C., recorded the statements of witnesses, arrested the accused person and
forwarded him to the court and after completion of investigation submitted
charge sheet against the accused person under Section 4/6 of the POCSO Act,
2012.

ok This Court being the Special Court under POCSO Act, in
compliance with Section 207 of Cr.P.C. furnished copies of relevant materials to
the accused person and after hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence counsel framed the formal charge against the accused under Section 6
of POCSO Act, 2012 and the charge so framed was read over and explained to

(Ve Xt, the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

©
Vs Ro 4. The Prosecution in order to prove its case examined
‘
So altogether 9 PWs including M.O. and I.0. The defence plea is of total denial as

CORED oievnmswas P/3.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 11/2017
-3

evident from the trend of cross examination. The accused person was examined
under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., wherein he denied all such incriminating materials
brought in evidence against him by the prosecution witnesses. The defence

declined to adduce any evidence.

5. Heard argument of the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.

Defence counsel.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

 

Whether the accused person, before 30.08.2017 at
Sonbeel Road, Sirishpore Tea Garden, Hailakandi committed aggravated
penetrative sexual assault upon his daughter i.e. the victim aged about 11 years

and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

RE PN EEL EE ES SS Se eee eee OO

6. The PW-1, Smt. Shanti Bhumiz, informant of the case has
deposed that about 3/4 months back, in a mid-night she was sleeping with her 4
children on one bed and on another bed, her husband was sleeping. The victim is
her second child. At that time, she heard cry of the victim, she woke up from
sleep and saw her husband viz. the accused in naked condition and the frock of
the victim was pulled upward and the accused was committing sexual
intercourse. Then she assaulted the accused and somehow managed to push him
away. The accused wanted to assault her and thereafter, the accused went out.
Her daughter viz. the victim reported her that the accused earlier also committed
such type of acts with her. Thereafter, on the next day, she came to Hailakandi

town and informed the same to the concerned office and lodged the complaint.

In cross examination, she has stated that there was
bleeding from the vagina of her daughter. She informed the same to police but
police did not seize any blood stained cloths. Her eldest daughter now aged 17
years resides at Karimganj and she was also victimized in the hands of accused.
There are residences of many people nearby her house, to whom she informed
COME, wesreceoeee P/Y4.

 
Special (POCSO) Case No. 11/2017
-4-

about the incident but they did not come to her house. The accused is a habitual
drunker and always remains under influence of liquor and having drunk, he starts
quarrel with them. On hearing cry of her daughter, her other children also woke
up. She has further stated that she saw the accused in naked condition and was
committing sexual intercourse with her daughter. She has further stated that the

accused does not contribute anything in maintaining livelihood of her family.

7. The PW-2, Sri Jitul Borah, the District Child Protection
Officer, Hailakandi, has deposed that on 30.08.2017 the informant along with her
daughter viz. the victim came to his office and submitted written complaint to the
effect that the victim, a minor child was sexually assaulted by her father.
Thereafter, he forwarded the complaint to the Officer-in-charge, Hailakandi

Police Station.

8. The PW-3, the victim, a 10 years old minor girl and as
such, oath was not administered to her, however, finding her sufficient maturity
of understanding, her evidence was recorded. She has deposed that about 4
months back, in one night, she was sleeping near her mother and at that time,
her father came to her, removed her cloths and slept on her. He also did some
bad acts with her. There was bleeding from her vagina. Her mother woke up
from sleep and kicked her father. Thereafter, her mother lodged the case. She

was taken to the hospital and also to the court.

In cross examination, she has stated that her mother and
father have been always quarrelled each other. Her mother maintains the
livelihood of her family. On the relevant night, as she was sleeping, she cannot
say when her father entered into her room. After the incident, she and her
mother reported the incident to their neighbouring people. Her mother did not
tutor her when she was taken to the court for recording her statement. Her
neighbours Ratan Kurmi, Majela and others came to her house on the relevant
night itself on hearing their halla and her mother narrated the entire incident to

them.

COMO civinvacdee P/5.
-5e

9. The PW-4, Smt. Saraswati Goswami, a Social Worker,
District Child Protection Unit, Hailakandi, has deposed that on 30.08.2017 the
informant came to their office and reported that the victim aged about 10/11
years was raped by her father and accordingly, Rajashree Roy Deb, a Member of
POCSO Committee prepared FIR in her presence vide Ext.-1 and Sri Jitul Borah,
District Child Protection Officer, Hailakandi, forwarded the same to the Officer-in-
charge, Hailakandi Police Station, who further entrusted her to conduct social
investigation over the matter and accordingly, she visited the residence of

informant.

In cross examination, she has stated that she enquired
about the matter. The family of informant is very poor and the informant with

great hardship maintains livelihood of the family.

10. The PW-5, Women Police Constable, Smt. Krishna Moni
Dutta has deposed that on 08.03.2017 she along with DSP, Smt. Rajashree
Dhandia went to the house of one Smt. Rajashree Roy Deb, a Member of POCSO
Committee, where they found the victim girl and her mother. The victim girl and
her mother told them that the accused, who is the father of the victim,
committed rape on the victim in drunken condition. She has further stated that
the victim is a minor girl. They took the victim to the Civil Hospital Hailakandi but
she was referred to SMCH, Silchar for examination. On the next day, after

medical examination, she handed over the victim to her mother.

In cross examination, she denied that she did not stated
before I.O. that the victim and her mother told her that the father of the victim

committed on the victim in drunken condition.

11. The PW-6, Smt. Rajashree Roy had deposed that on
30.08.2017 she was holding the post of Member, POCSO Committee and on that
day, at around 3 P.M. the informant came to her house and narrated the entire
incident as to how the victim was sexually assaulted by her father and they
sought for help. She has further stated that the victim was aged about 10 years.

COREG, sweswvanene P/6.
Special (POCSQO) Case No. 11/2017
-6-

Thereafter, she drafted a complaint vide Ext.-1 addressing the District Child

Protection Officer, Hailakandi.

In cross examination, she has stated that when the victim
and informant reported the incident to her, there were other persons present and
amongst them, one Translator of POCSO Committee namely Smt. Saraswati
Goswami, Sri Jitul Borah District Child Protection Officer, Hailakandi and Sri Guljar
Ahmed, Non-institutional Protection Officer. She has further stated that the
informant came to their office directly without support of any NGO. The
informant did not produce any document to her in respect of the age of the
victim. She took thumb impression of the informant in the complaint. She asked

the victim before writing the complaint about the incident.

12. The PW-7, Sri Milu Kalindi has deposed that he does not

know anything about the incident.

13. The PW-8, Dr. Orina Raha of Forensic Medicine, SMCH,
Silchar, has deposed that on 01.09.2017 she examined the victim at SMCH,
Silchar in connection with Hailakandi P.S. Case No. 536/2017 and found old tear
90 clock position in hymen. Vagina was found healthy and no spermatozoa was
found. In her opinion, the victim was aged above 10 years and below 12 years,
sings of recent sexual penetration not detected, the vaginal smear does not show
spermatozoa, however, evidence of sexual penetration found present in her

person and no injury on her body was detected. Ext-3 is the report.

In cross examination, she has stated that as per version of
the victim, 10 days before the medical examination, the last incident was
occurred. On the basis of dental and radiological test, she arrived at the finding

as regards age of the victim.

14. The PW-9, Smt. Rajashree Dhandia, DSP of
Police/Investigation Officer of the case has deposed that on 30.08.2017 she was
entrusted to investigate the case and on that night itself, she visited the place of
occurrence viz. the house of accused. She searched his house and prepared

COREG csvisaxnves P/7,
Special (POCSO se No, 11/2017
=)

rough sketch map thereof vide Ext.-6. On the next day, she again visited the
place of occurrence, recorded the statements of witnesses and on being found
the accused in his house, apprehended him. Thereafter, she got the information
that the victim and her mother had been in the house of one Rajashree Roy
where her mother was working as a maid. She went there and recorded the
statements of victim, informant and Rajashree Roy. Thereafter, she forwarded
the victim to Civil Hospital Hailakandi but due to examination of vaginal swab,
the victim was referred to SMCH, Silchar. She got the statement of victim
recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. After completion of investigation, she

submitted charge sheet against the accused person Sumon Bhumiz.

In cross examination, she has stated that there is no note
in the case diary regarding the delay in filing the complaint. The PW-5, Krishna
Moni Dutta did not state before her that the victim and her mother told her that
the victim was raped by her father in drunken condition.

15. From the evidence of PW-9, Investigating Officer, it is
revealed that the mother of the victim girl was working in the house of PW-6
who is a Member of POCSO Committee, Hailakadi, as a maid. In that connection,
immediate after the occurrence, the mother of the victim viz. the PW-
1/complainant informed the same to the PW-6 and she drafted the Ext.-1,
complaint and asked the complainant to lodge the same to the PW-2, the District
Child Protection Officer, Hailakandi, who in turn forwarded the complaint to the
Officer-in-charge, Hailakandi Police Station vide Ext.-2, FIR.

16. The evidence of PW-1 disclosed that the accused is her
husband and out of their wed-lock, they got 5 children. The eldest daughter was
aged about 17 years at the relevant time and she was also victimised in the
hands of accused and as such, at present, the eldest daughter has been residing

at Karimgan}.

17. The PW-1 has testified that on the relevant night, she was
sleeping with her 4 children including the victim on one bed and her husband
COREG iis nususacs P/8.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 11/2017
-8-

was also sleeping on another bed and in the mid-night, she heard scream of her
second daughter viz. the victim. She woke up and found her husband in naked
condition and was committing sexual intercourse with her daughter. Then she
managed to push the accused away who was under influence of liquor.
Thereafter, her daughter reported her that the accused also did such type of bad
acts with her earlier. The PW-1 is an eye witness to the occurrence and during
cross examination, the defence could not impeach her testimony. Now, coming
to the evidence of victim/PW-3, it is found that the victim has stated that on the
relevant night, while she was sleeping near her mother, her father came to her,
disrobed her and did some bad things with her, there was bleeding from her
vagina, her mother woke up from sleep and kicked her father. The PW-3 has
further testified that the accused did such type of bad acts with her even before
the incident. The evidence of victim could not be demolished by defence, even
could not bring out any contradiction. The evidence of PW-1 and PW-3 are very
much consistent and corroborative to the fact that the accused committed

penetrative sexual assault on the victim.

18. During investigation, at the earliest possible opportunity,
the statement of victim was recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. and she has
very categorically stated that at one night, while she was sleeping, the accused
out off her pant and started touching her, to which she felt hurt and on being
raised hue and cry, her mother saved her. She has further stated that after some
days again while she was sleeping, the accused forced him on her and pressed
her hands and mouth and did bad things. She clarified that her father viz. the
accused tried to put something on her private parts and on raising alarm, her
mother woke up and saw the accused doing the bad things with her. Though the
victim is a child witness but she narrated the entire incident in a decent manner

as to how she was exploited by her father.

19. There is no contradiction in the testimony of the victim and
her mother with their statements made at the earliest possible opportunity, even

the defence could shake credit oftheir testimony.

COMED, cos sereeeee Ao.
Special (POCSO se No. 11/2017
-9-

20. The PW-4 a social worker, PW-5 Women Police Constable
and PW-6 a Member of POCSO Committee, Hailakandi, very categorically
deposed that the victim and her mother reported them that the accused

committed sexual assault on the victim.

21. The victim is the daughter and the informant is the wife of
the accused and from the cogent evidence as discussed above, adduced by both
of them as well as other witnesses, I do not find any reason whatsoever to

disbelieve their evidence.

22. The PW-8, Dr. Orina Raha, who examined the victim at
SMCH, Silchar, has found the hymen with old tear 9’O clock position, no
spermatozoa was found and no signs of recent sexual intercourse detected but it
is opined that the evidence of sexual penetration was found present in the
person of the victim. The victim in her evidence has stated that even before the
present incident, the accused did bad things with her. The victim and her mother
are rustic village people having no education and thus, it is very natural that they
cannot say the exact date of occurrence but immediate after the occurrence
when the informant reported the same to the PW-6, the Ext.-1, complaint was
drafted by the PW-6. In the complaint, the last date of occurrence is mentioned
as 26.08.2017. The victim was medically examined on 01.09.2017 which shows
that after 6 days of the occurrence, the victim was medically examined and
therefore, it is difficult for the attending doctor to find out evidence of recent
sexual intercourse. However, the doctor has opined that there was evidence of
sexual penetration, which receives support from the evidence of PWs.-1 & 3 that

the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim viz. the PW-3.

23. As regards age of the victim, the PW-1 has stated that at
the relevant time, the victim was minor. The victim/PW-3 has stated that at the
relevant time she was 10 years old. The evidence of PW-8, Medical Officer is that
the radiological age of the victim is 10 to 12 years. Therefore, it is arrived that

the victim was a minor girl at the relevant point of time.

COMED, cessesevees P/10.
ecial (P No. 11/2017
-10-

24. The Ld. Counsel for the defence has submitted that from
the evidence of PW-1 and PW-3, it appears that there was frequent quarrel
between the PW-1 and the accused and the accused having drunk even used to
assault the PW-1 and therefore, it is clear that the PW-1, wife of the accused
created the entire story and filed the case with false allegations against the
accused only to harass him. The above submission of the Ld. Counsel is not at all
confidence inspiring as the evidence as discussed above is very much clear and
cogent that it is accused and none else has committed the incident. Had the
informant intended to file false case against the accused, she could have alleged
any other things but here in the instant case, the allegation is made in respect of

the chastity of her own minor daughter and that too in the hands of father.

25. In view of above, it is held that the prosecution is able to
prove its case successfully against the accused person, who is the father of the

victim, beyond all reasonable doubt.

26. Accordingly, the accused person Sumon Bhumiz is
convicted under Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.

27. Heard the convict on the point of sentence, he has pleaded
for clemency. His statement has been recorded in a separate sheet and
appended to the record.

28. Considering all aspects, the convict Sumon Bhumiz
is sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 14 (fourteen) years and to
pay fine of Rs. 5,000/-, in default, further rigorous imprisonment for 2
(two) months under Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.

29. The record reveals that vide order dated 06.12.2017, the
victim was awarded interim compensation of Rs. 25,000/- under Victim
Compensation Scheme and it was paid accordingly. Considering the nature and
gravity of offence, the District Legal Services Authority, Hailakandi is
recommended to pay further amount of Rs. 1,75,000/- to the victim under the
scheme as compensation within 3 (three) months. Out of the above amount,

COMED. rsccsseeee P/11.
ial (POC ase No. 11/2017
Ai

Rs.1,00,000/- should be deposited for 3 (three) years in term deposit scheme in
any Nationalised Bank in the name of victim and the bank shall not grant any
loan or advance or any premature withdrawal on the said amount without prior

permission of this Court.
30. The convict was informed about his legal right to appeal.

Sil Furnish 3 (three) copies of this judgment to the convict
immediately free of cost for convict himself, for Superintendent of Jail and for

relative of the convict.

a2. Also, send a copy of this judgment to the District
Magistrate, Hailakandi and the Secretary, District Legal Services Authority,
Hailakandi.

33. The Special (POCSO) case is disposed of accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 20
day of September, 2018 at Hailakandi.

Dictated and corrected by me:

 

  
 
 

ns gugge

special judg al andi.

Dictation is taken and transcribed Samsher Bahadur, Stenographer
Grade — III.

 

COMET cnscanaatee P/12.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 11/2017
ape

Appendix :-

Oral Evidences :-

PW-1, Smt. Shanti Bhumiz.

PW-2, Sri Jitul Borah.

PwW-3, Kajal Bhumiz.

Pw-4, Smt. Saraswati Goswami.

Pw-5, WPC/384 Smt. Krishnamoni Dutta
PW-6, Smt. Rajashree Roy.

PW-7, Sri Milu Kalindi.

PW-8, Dr. Orina Raha.

PW-9, Smt. Rajashree Dhandia

Documentary Evidences :-

Ext.-1, Complaint petition.

Ext.-2, Forwarding cum FIR.

Ext.-3, Medical report.

Ext.-4, X-ray report.

Ext.-5, FIR Form.

Ext.-6, Rough sketch map of the place of occurrence.

Ext.-7, Charge sheet

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

 
-{ 3

 

Certificate as per Report dated 16.04.2018 of NALSA in case
of trial through Legal Aid.

Annexed to the Judgment dated 20.09.2018
passed in Special (POCSO) Case No. 11 of 2017 u/s 6 of
POCSO Act, 2012.

it is hereby certified that convict has been informed and
explained the judgment in vernacular and it is made sure that he has understood
the same. It is further certified that convict has been explained that he has a right

to appeal before the court of Hon’ble High Court within a period of 30 days.

The convict is also informed that he is eligible and entitled to
free legal aid by virtue of being in custody. Free and Competent legal services are
availbale from DLSA/SLSA/HCLSC in the court as well as inside the jail.

Convict has been supplied three sets of attested copies of
judgment and order of sentence along with warrant to be used as under :-
(i) One copy for the family of the convict.
(i) One copy for the official Jail records to be enclosed with the custody
warrant.
(iii) One copy for the convict who shall be allowed to retain it at all times

with himself/herself. Q

eo

Haiti eeaetic|
