IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 14(DH) 2018.
U/s 366 IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act.
(G.R. Case No.128/2018 (DMJ); Dhemaji P.S. Case No.54/2018 u/s 366(A) IPC R/W Sec. 8 of

POCSO Act)

The State of Assam

- Versus —

Shri Raju Nath, oo

S/O Biren Nath,
R/O Sensuwa Gaon,
P.S. Boginadi,

Dist.- Lakhimpur,

Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor
Smt. Beauty Phukan, Advocate

(Legal-Aid Counsel)

Dates of prosecution evidence

Date of arguments

Date of Judgment

iar cued Accused Person

: 06-08-2018, 01-10-2018, 10-12-2018,
04-01-2019, 07-01-2019, 21-05-2019.
: 26-08-2019.

: 18-09-2019.
DGMENT

i The prosecution case in brief is that on 10-2-2018 complainant- Shri Achyut
Sonowal lodged an ejahar with Dhemaji Police Station alleging interalia that on
8-2-2018 at about 8 A.M. in the morning while his minor daughter-Smti ‘xX’ aged
about 12 years was going to her school on foot, the accused-Raju Nath
kidnapped/abducted her from the road near Dhemaji Railway Station and took her
away by Rail. They searched for the victim but did not find her. Railway Police of
Lakhimpur apprehended the accused and the victim and they informed the Dhemaji
Police Station. Then Police brought boyth the victim and the accused tyo Dhemaji
Police Station.

Z. On receipt of the ejaha, Police registered a case vide Dhemaji P.S. Case No.
54/2018 u/s 366(A) IPC read with Sec. 8 of POCSO Act. On completion of
investigation police submitted Charge-sheet against the accused-Shri Raju Nath u/s
366 of IPC Reads With Section 8 of POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the accused, this Court
considered the materials on record and upon hearing both the sides, framed charges
u/s 366(A) of IPC read with Sec. 8 of POCSO Act and read-over and explained to
him to which he pleaded not guilty. The prosecution, in order to prove its case,
examined 8 witnesses including I/O and M/O. At the closure of prosecution
evidence, statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence plea is
of total denial. However, defence declined to adduce evidence in support of the plea.

4. Points for determination :

 

(1) That you, on 8-2-2018 at about 8 AM at Village-Baligaon under
Dhemaji Police Station, you abducted/kidnapped Smt. ‘X’ a minor girl aged
about 12 years with intent that she might be compelled to marry you against
her will, or that she might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and
thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 366 A of IPC.

(2) That you, on the same day, and thereafter committed penetrative
sexual assault on Smt. “x” and thereby you committed an offence punishable
u/s 4 of POCSO Act.
\
nb
AX

gppcitht undge,
fifearene

5. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard arguments of both
sides.

Discussion of Evidence:

6. PW1 Smti ‘xX’ (the victim) stated that the complainant is her father. She
knows the accused. The occurrence took place about 3 months back (from the date
of her deposition). On the date of occurrence at about 8 AM while she was going to
school the accused Raju Nath met her on the road and he offered her chocolate to
eat. When she ate the chocolate, she became senseless. The accused took her to his
aunt’s house at Lakhimpur and there he committed bad act with her. The accused
pressed her breast and kissed her. When the accused came to Railway station to
bring her back to her house, police apprehended the accused and her and informed
her parents. After recovery her father lodged complaint at Dhemaji police station.
Police recorded her statement and produced before Magistrate and she gave
statement before Magistrate and also got her medically examined. Ext.1 is her
statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. Ext.1(1) and 1(2) are her signatures.

In cross-examination she got to know Raju Nath after the incident. She
denied the defence suggestion that she met the accused in a railway station at
Helem. She cannot exactly say whether it was the accused who offered her
chocolate to eat. She denied that she was kidnapped by another boy and Raju Nath
met her in railway station at Helem. She denied the defence suggestion that she told
Raju Nath that she wanted to go to Dhemaji and then Raju Nath, who also hails
from Lakhimpur Boginadi, toild her that he would help her to come to Dhemaji. She
denied the defence suggestion that Raju Nath Did not physically abuse her. She
denied that Raju Nath did not offer her chocolate to eat. She also denied the
defence suggestion that Raju Nath did not took her to his aunt’s house at Lakhimpur
and there he committed bad act with her.

?. PW2 Sri Achyut Sonowal stated that he is the complainant. He does not
know the accused. Victim ‘X’ is his daughter. The incident took place in the month
of February 2018. On the date of occurrence while his daughter was going to school
she went missing. His daughter did not return home from school and they searched
for her and came to know that her daughter had been apprehended by Lakhimpur
police. Then they went to North Lakhimpur Police Station and found their daughter
in the Police Station. They took zimma of his daughter and coming back to Dhemaji,
he lodged complaint at Dhemaji police station. On being asked his daughter told him
that the accused Raju Nath had kidnapped/abducted his daughter to Lakhimpur. At
the time of incident his daughter was aged about 12 years. Ext-2 is the ejahar. He
put his thumb impression in the ejahar.

In cross-examination PW2 stated that he did not know as to how his
daughter reached Lakhimpur. He denied the defence suggestion that Raju Nath did
not kidnap/abduct his daughter.

8. PW3 Smti Bhugeswari Sonowal stated that complainant is her husband. She
does not know the accused. Victim Smt ‘x’ is her daughter. The incident took place
in the month of February 2018. On the date of occurrence while her daughter was
going to school she went missing. Her daughter did not return home from school
and they searched for her and came to know that her daughter had been
apprehended by Lakhimpur police. Then they went to Lakhimpur Police Station and
found their daughter in the Police Station. They took jimma of her daughter and
coming back to Dhemaji, her husband lodged complaint at Dhemaji police station.
On being asked her daughter told her that the accused Raju Nath had forcibly
kidnapped/abducted her daughter to Lakhimpur with intent to compel to marry her
and also stated that the accused had committed sexual intercourse with her. At the

time of incident her daughter was aged about 12 years.

In cross-examination PW3 denied the defence suggestion that she did not
state before the I/O that her daughter told her that Raju Nath had forcibly
kidnapped/abducted her daughter to Lakhimpur with intent to compel to marry her
and also stated that the accused had committed sexual intercourse with her.

9. PW4 Sri Bhadra Sonowal stated that he knows the complainant and the
accused. Victim Smt. ‘X’ is his elder sister's daughter. The incident took place about
10 months back. On the date of occurrence the victim went missing while she was
going to school. Lakhimpur Police apprehended the victim and the accused.

In cross-examination PW4 stated that he had not made any statement before

police. Police also did not examine him.
10. | PWS Sri Santanu Sonowal stated that he knows the complainant and the
accused. Victim Smti ‘x’ is known to him. The incident took place in the month of
February 2018. One day Railway Police apprehended the accused along with the
victim at Helem Railway Station and handed over them to Lakhimpur GRP. And
Lakhimpur GRP informed Dhemaji Police and Dhemaji Police along with parents of
the victim brought her from Lakhimpur to Dhemaji. He also accompanied — victim’s
guardian to Lakhimpur.

In cross-examination PW5 stated that he had not seen the accused taking
away the victim from Dhemaji to Helem.

11. PW6 Dr. Debajit Doloi stated that on 10-02-2018 he examined Smt. ‘Xx’
(victim) at Dhemaji Civil Hospital on police requisition vide No. 54/2018 u/s 366 A
IPC on being escorted and identified by WHG-Dolly Bhuyan. On examination he

found as follows :-

General Physical Examination:

Built & nutrition - | Normal

Weight- 40 kg. (Approx.)

Height- 4 Feet

Development of hair- a) Axillary — Not well developed, b) Pubic- Not well
developed.

Breast- a) Development- Well developed, b) Findings- B/L single bite mark
present over nipple, two bite mark present over upper part of left breast, nail
mark present over both breasts.

Marks of violence in the body :- On examination, he found that there are
marks of violence present on the body surface of the victim-Durgeswari
Sonowal.

Examination of Genitalia :-

 

Development of genuitalia- Well developed.
Pubic Hair — Not well developed.

Clitoris - Normal,

Labia majora and minora — Normal,
Fourchette- Normal.

Hymen - Ruptured
Vagina - Normal,

Injuries- Nil,

Discharge and stains- Absent.

Internal Examination :- On internal examination (Dureing P/V), hymen
found ruptured and the vaginal orifice founder tender.

Laboratory investigation :

Vaginal smear sent for detection of spermateozoa.

Result- No spermateozoa found under microscopic examination.

Pregnancy Test (FCG Urine)- Found negative.

Name of Pathologist- Dr. J Moran.

Ultrasonography- Not done.

Radiological Examination - Part X-Ray wrist and elbow joint — right side,
both AP and lateral view.

Opinion :- On radiological examination, the age of the person is found
above 15 years and below 17 years. Name of Radiologist- Dr. Bhupen Kuli.
On examination of the victim girl, Doctor (PW6) opined that only external juries are
present on the body surface of the victim, no other evidence found. On radiological

examination, the age of the victim found above 15 years and below 17 years.

Exhibit-3 is the medical report and EXt-3(1) is his signature. Exhibit-4 is the
vaginal swab/urine pregnancy test examination report and EXt-4(1) is the signature
of DR. J. Moran which is known to him. Exhibit-5 is the radiological report and Ext-
5(1) is the signature of Dr. B. Kuli which is known to him.

Defence declined to cross-examine the Doctor (PW6).

12. PW7. Idrish Ali stated that on 09-02-2018 he was posted at Dhemaji Police
Station as Attached Officer. On that day ASI Jayanta Karmakar GRPS, North
Lakhimpur brought the accused Raju Nath and victim girl from Lakhimpur to
Dhemaji and handed over to OC Dhemaji Police Station. The accused and the victim
were apprehended at Helem Railway Station. He made GD Entry vide No.301 dated
09-02-2018 and OC Dhemaji entrusted him for investigation. He recorded statement
of ASI Jayanta Karmakar u/s 161 Cr.PC. He also recorded victim’s statement u/s 161
Cr.PC. The victim in her statement disclosed that the accused had taken her away
from Dhemaji Railway Station. He visited the PO and drew sketch map. On 10-02-
2018 OC Dhemaji received an ejahar from Achyut Sonowal and registered a case
vide Dhemaji PS Case No.54/2018, u/s 366A IPC R/W section 8 of POCSO Act and
entrusted him for investigation of the case. He recorded statement of complainant
and other witnesses u/s 161 Cr.PC. He got the victim medically examined. The
accused was formally arrested and forwarded to court. Victim was produced before
magistrate and she gave her statement before magistrate u/s 164 Cr.PC. He
collected the medical report of the victim. After completion of investigation he filed
charge sheet against the accused Raju Nath u/s 366 A IPC, R/W section 8 of POCSO
Act. Ext.6 is sketch map and Ext.6(1) is his signature. Ext.7 is charge sheet and
Ext.7(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination Witness- Smt. Bhugeswari Sonowal did not state before
him that the accused took away her daughter to Lakhimpur with intent to marry her.
This witness also did not state before him that the accused also physically abused
her or harassed her.

Appreciation of Evidence :

$3, Prosecution examined the victim as PW1. According to PW1 on7 the date of
occurrence at the relevant time while she was going to school accused Raju Nath
met her on the road and offered her chocolate which she took and ate and then she
became senseless. She also stated that accused took her to his aunt’s house at
Lakhimpur and there he physically abused her by pressing her breast and also kissed
her. The victim and the accused were apprehended when the accused came to bring
her back to Dhemajji. In cross examination victim stated that she cannot say exactly
whether the accused was the person who offered her chocolate and she became
senseless. However she denied defence suggestion that accused Raju Nath did not
kidnap her. In her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC she stated that accused Raju Nath
kidnapped her. Further she stated in her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC that while accused
Raju Nath prepared to take her to Silapathar by bus, police apprehended them. As
per evidence of the IO the accused and the victim were apprehended at Helem
Railway Station. So far as evidence of other witnesses is concerned PW2 is the
father of the complainant and stated that his daughter went missing while going to
school and she was recovered by Lakhimpur Police and he took zimma of his
daughter and lodged complaint against Raju Nath. PW3 is the mother of the victim
made similar statement as PW2. PW4 stated that accused Raju Nath and the victim
were apprehended at Helem Railway Station and handed over to Lakhimpur GRP.
The victim was examined by doctor and doctor after examination opined that
external injuries are present of the body surface of the victim and no other evidence
found.

14.  Onconsideration of the evidence on record it is found that the victim in her
evidence on oath during trial mentioned that accused Raju Nath kidnapped her and
in her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC also she mentioned that Raju Nath kidnapped her.
But her version in cross examination that she cannot exactly say whether the
accused present in the dock was the person who kidnapped her. This version of the
victim makes a dent in the prosecution case in as much as the identity of the
accused become doubtful. The defence plea is that the accused met the victim at
Railway Station and he offered his help to bring her to Dhemaji.

15. I have given my anxious thought to the fact materials and I find it difficult to
come to a definite conclusion that it was Raju Nath involved in the commission of
the alleged kidnapping and sexual assault. Though the trial is under the provisions of
Special Act and there is provisions for presumption of law, here in the instant case
we are faced with material contradictions in the evidence of the victim relating to

identity of the accused.

16. In my considered opinion failure to identify the accused as being the
perpetrator of the crime creates a doubt in the mind of the court as to the
involvement of the accused and the alleged commission of offence.

iY. In view of what has been discussed above, I find that prosecution has failed
to prove the charges u/s 366 A of IPC RW section 4 of POCSO Act against the

accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
ORDER:

18. In the result I find the accused Raju Nath not guilty u/s 366 A of IPC RW
section 4 of POCSO Act. Accordingly he is acquitted of the charges levelled against
him. Set him at liberty forthwith.
2

19. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.

20. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 18%

day of
Sept/2019.
