IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present:

 

(G.R. Case No.987/2016(GRMK); Gerukamukh PS Case No.12/2016 u/s 376 IPC R/W

Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act)

 

Special Judge,

Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL (POCSO )CASE NO. 04(DH)2014.

Committing Magistrate : Shri U Borah,

Judicial Magistrate,1** Class,

The State of Assam
- Versus —

Shri Juram Saikia
S/O Lt. Naram Saikia,
Vill. Dnarmapur,

P.S. Gerukamukh,

Dist. Dnemaji (Assam)

Appearance:
Shri Ajoy Fogla,

Public Prosecutor

Dhemaji.

Shri S. Das,A.J.S.,

Accused Person

For the State
Yc"

Special Judge,
Dhemaft.

Smti Beauty Phukan, Advocate,

Defence Counsel — seeaeteee sees For the Accused person

Date of prosecution evidence : 10-04-2017, 08-05-2017,
29-08-2017,

Date of defence evidence : Nil

Date of arguments : 23-02-2018

Date of Judgment : 07-03-2018

JUDGMENT

i The prosecution case in brief is that on 09-11-2016, the
complainant Dijen Deka lodged an ejahar with Gerukamukh P/S alleging
inter-alia that on the same date i.e. 09-11-2016 at about 8:30AM while his
minor daughter Smti. X (victim) aged about 11 years was alone at home the
accused Shri Juram Saikia came to their house and committed rape on his

daughter lying on the ground. Hence the case.

in On received of the ejahar police registered a case vide
Gerukamukh PS Case No. 12/2016 u/s 376 of IPC read with Section 4 of the
Protection of Children from Sexuality Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act). Police
started investigation and on completion of investigation submitted charge
Special Judge,
Dhema}t.

sheet against the accused Juram Saikia to stand trial under the said sections

of law.

> The case came up before Judicial Magistrate 1% Class Dhemaji
and the Ld. Magistrate issued process for appearance of the accused and on
appearance furnished necessary copies to the accused and committed the
case to this court.

4, On receipt of the case record and on production of the accused
this court considered the materials on record and upon hearing both the sides,
framed charges u/s 4 of the POCSO Act read with section 448 of IPC and
read over and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. Prosecution,
in order to prove its case, examined 6 witnesses. At the closure of the
prosecution witnesses the accused was examined u/s 313 of Cr. P.C. The

defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.
5.The Points for determination:-

(i) That you, on 09/11/2016 at about 8:30 AM at village
Dharmapur under Gerukamukh Police Station committed penetrative
sexual assault upon Smti. X (victim) is a minor of about 12 years and
thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of the POCSO Act,
2012.

(ii) That you at the same date, time and place committed house
trespass into the house of victim for causing the offence u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 448 of
IPC.

6. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.
Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

 

Fs In this case prosecution examined 6 (six) witnesses including
the minor victim. Prosecution examined the minor victim aged about 11 years
as PW1. Before recording her statement, necessary questions were out to the
victim and the Court being satisfied that she is capable to understand and
gave rational answer without oath. The victim stated that the accused-Juram
Saikia is known to her and he is from her village. On the date of occurrence
at about 8 A.M. in the morning she was in her house getting ready to go to
school. Her father had already gone out for work. Her mother expired before
the occurrence. She also stated that accused-Juram Saikia whom she
addressed as ‘Kaka’ came to her house and asked for a knife. Then she went
inside the house to get the knife. But the accused also came inside and
gagged her mouth and threw her on the floor and removed her
panty/undergarment and touched her private part/organ with his penis. Then
he went away. She further stated that after the incident, she went to school
and when she returned home she wanted to tell her father about the incident
but, he was not at home and in the evening her father came home and she
told about the incident. Her father called a meeting. In the meeting the

accused admitted he had done bad act with her. Then he was handed-over to
8 police. Police got her medically examined and her statement got recorded u/s

164 of Cr.P.C. by Magistrate. In cross-examination, she stated that she made

Special Judge,

cmmall her statement as taught by her father. However, she also stated that

accused-Juram Saikia did bad act with her.

8. PW2 is Shri Dijen Deka, father of the victim. His evidence is that
on the date of occurrence at about 8 AM he had gone out for work and his
daughter was alone in the house and getting ready for school. He returned
home at 5 PM and she (victim) told him that the accused had come to her

house and wanted a knife and when she went inside the house the accused
grabbed her and touched his penis to her private part. He called VDP
personnel - Chandra Borah, Bolin Borah and Dadu. A meeting was called and
the villagers were present in the meeting. However, he could not take part in
the discussion. He stated that the villagers took them to the police station
and he filed the case. In cross-examination he denied the defence suggestion
that he did not state before police that the accused did bad act with his
daughter. He also denied the defence suggestion that he has falsely filed this
case.

9. PW3 Sabita Das deposed that the victim told her in presence of
the villagers that the accused came to her house and grabbed her and
touched her private part with his penis. In cross PW3 stated that she did not
see the occurrence. PW4 gave similar evidence as PW3.

10. PW6 is the Investigating Officer. His evidence is that on 9-11-
2016 he was O/C of Gerukamukh Police Station. On that day he received an
ejahar from one Dijen Deka to the effect that the accused-Juram Saikia
committed rape on his daughter. Accordingly, he registered a case and took-
up investigation. The accused was brought to the Police Station by the
villagers and after arrest he was forwarded to custody. The victim was
medically examined and she was produced before the Magistrate for

recording her statement. He also drew sketch map of the P.O.

at. PW5 is the Medical Officer who examined the victim on 9-11-
2013. After examination he opined that the age of the girl is below 12 years
and there was no sign of forceful sexual intercourse. He did not find any

injury on the private part/vagina of the victim.

Lids From the discussion of evidence on record, it appears that the
victim in her evidence categorically stated that the accused came to her
house and grabbed her and abused/assaulted her sexually by touching her
4”

| Judge,
+a

private part with his penis. He also stated that the accused did bad act with

her.

13. It is also in the evidence of the victim that she told her father
about the incident and her father called a meeting in the village and in the
meeting the accused admitted that he did bad act with the victim. However,
in the cross-examination the victim stated that she made statement as taught
to her by her father.

14. Before I give my findings I may look at section 4 of POCSO Act
which reads as under: ‘Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not
be less than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and
Shall also be liable to fine’.

1. I have carefully considered the evidence brought on record by
the prosecution side. So far as the evidence of vital witnesses, the
victim/minor in her cross-examination part is concerned, it is found that their
statement in cross-examination part weaken, gets shaken by their own
statement as far as the alleged sexual assault on the victim is concerned. The
ocular evidence/testimony has not found corroboration from medical
evidence. The evidence of independent witnesses appears to be hear-say and
they have stated that they heard about the incident from the victim. I have
given my anxious material in the circumstances and the evidence brought on
record by the prosecution.

16. It is well settled that conviction can be based on sole testimony
of the victim and no corroboration is required from any quarter. But the fact
remains that the evidence of the victim does not inspire confidence in-as-
much-as her statement in the cross-examination part militates against her
statement in examination-in-chief. I am conscious of the fact that this is a
case of sexual assault involving a minor girl but, in absence of credible
evidence on record, I find it difficult to come to the conclusion that the
prosecution has been able to prove the case to the hilt.

17. In view of what has been discussed above, I find that the
prosecution has failed to prove the charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act read with sec.
448 of IPC beyond all reasonable doubt.

ORDER:

18. In the result, I find the accused Juram Saikia not guilty and
accordingly, he is acquitted of the charges u/s 448 IPC and sec. 4 of POCSO
Act. Set him at liberty forthwith.

19, Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
20. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 7% day
of March/2018.
431
(S. Das )
s2pecialajudge,

Maiji.
