IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: CACHAR :: SILCHAR.
SPECIAL POCSO Case No.34 of 2017.
(U/S 366 IPC /SEC.4 of POCSO Act 12)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Sessions Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM ......cc.cccccccesecseeceeeaeeesaesseeseseeeeeessseeeeeessesenaeas Complainant.
-Versus-

Javed Ahmed Choudhurl).........ccccccccccceesseeceeessssseeeeeeeseseteesesseeeas Accused.

Charge framed OM tm........cccccccccceesseceeceeeeeessseeeesssseeeeessseeeeeesseseeeseseas 31.8.17.

PWS. CXAMINEM ON!-.......ccccccccceeeeeeseteeeeeeeeeeesneeeeeeeeseseeeseeeeeeeeeeseeeas 25.04.19

Argument heard Ont ....ccccceeesssseeeeeeeseeseseeeeeeeneeeeeeesessessaeensneeeeas 25.04.19.

Judgment pronounced and delivered ON!-.......cccccceeeeeeeceeeeeeaeeaeees 25.04.19.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B. Acharjee, Ld.Special Prosecutor
For the Accused : Mr. J.U.Laskar, Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 15/04/16 at 1-30

p.m. the accused took away his minor daughter Rita Begum by inducing her
in his motor cycle.

Alleging as above the informant lodged the F.I.R. on 23.4.16
before the in charge Jirighat PS. On receipt of the FIR a case was
registered vide Jirighat P.S. Case No.23/16 U/S 366(A) of IPC. Police

launched investigation and after completion of investigation charge sheet
Special POCSO_ Case No.34/17

was submitted against accused Jabed Ahmed U/S 366(A)/343 of IPC R/w
Sec 6 of POCSO Act.

2. The offence U/S 366 (A) IPC and Sec.6 of POCSO Act being
exclusively triable by the Court of Sessions and Special Judge, learned
SDJM(M) Lakhipur committed the case and accordingly this Special ( POCSO )
case was registered. In due course, upon appearance of the accused person
and after hearing both sides my learned predecessor framed formal charge
U/S 366 IPC and U/s 4 of POCSO Act 2012 against accused Javed Ahmed
Chodhury. The charge having been read over and explained, the accused
person pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

3. Point for determination :

(1) Whether the accused kidnapped the victim with intent that
she might be compelled or knowing that it to be likely that she would be
compelled to marry against her will or that she might be forced or seduced
to illicit intercourse, as alleged ?

(2) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault
with the victim, as alleged ?

4. In support of the case the prosecution examined as many as 2
( two ) witnesses including the informant and the victim. As no incriminating
materials appears to be found against the accused during evidence the
recording of statement of the accused U/S 313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.

5. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have also
heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF
6. Now, let me discuss the evidence below’ to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused

person as mentioned in point for determination.
Special POCSO_ Case No.34/17

7. P.W.1 Rita Begum Laskar being the victim is the prime witness in this
case. She deposed without implicating the accused that on the date of
occurrence his father scolded her for which she left the house for the house
of her brother Noju Ahmed. Her father out of mis-understanding of facts

lodged the FIR against the accused. Thereafter police had recovered her.

In her cross examination she categorically deposed that she was
recovered by her father from the house of her brother and thereafter her

father took her to the police station. The accused had not kidnapped her.

8. PW-2, Ali Anmed_ who is the informant and father of the victim
deposed that on the date of occurrence when he reached at his home at
about 12 O'clock his daughter Rita Begum was found missing in the house.
As the accused Jabed was in visiting terms with their house as such on
being suspected he lodged an FIR against the accused. He further deposed
that thereafter his daughter was married to the accused and presently she

is living with the accused.

9. Appreciating the evidence on record it comes to light that the
informant PW-2 lodged an FIR against the accused when his daughter PW-1
was found missing out of suspicion as accused was in visiting terms with
their house. PW-1 victim did not implicate the accused in any way rather
she gave a clean chit to the accused by categorically stating in her cross
examination that accused had not kidnapped her. She also did not utter
anything against the accused person to rope in him in the alleged offence of
crime. So, it appears that both the prime witnesses i.e, victim and the
informant did not at all implicate accused person in the alleged offence of
crime.

10. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
Special POCSO_ Case No.34/17

prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/s 366 IPC /SEC.4 of
POCSO Act 2012 against accused.
11. In view of the above, accused is held not guilty and stands
acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty forthwith.
Bail bond stands discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on
this the 25th April, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by

( D. Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee,
Stenographer Gr. I.
Special POCSO_ Case No.34/17

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR
Spl. POCSO Case No.34 of 2017.

APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

PW. 1 — Rita Begum Laskar
PW. 2 — Ali Anmed

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — Statement of victim

Ext. 2 — FIR

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
