IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE =o iit::::::: ~CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

Special (P) Case No. 25(RKT)/2017
U/S 341/354A/323/506 IPC R/W Section 8 of POCSO Act.

 

State of Assam
Vs.
Sri Promod Basumatary .......... Accused

PRESENT: Sri D.J. Mahanta,
Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.
ADVOCATES APPEARED:

For the State ’ Sti D. Das, Public Prosecutor
For the accused ' Sri B.K. Dey, Advocate

Date of evidence : 22.02.18, 22.03.18, 05.04.18,
19.04.18

Date of Argument —_: 17.05.2018
Date of Judgment _—_: 17.05.2018

JUDGMENT AND ORDER

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 02.09.2017, the

2 wee accused Promod Basumatary restrained the 16 years old daughter of the
ahs informant by holding her hand with ill motive while she was returning from
one her college. On her resistance, the accused assaulted her by holding her neck
and hair but the victim somehow managed to escape from the hand of the
accused. It is further alleged that accused threatened the victim by telling her

not to disclose the incident to anybody otherwise she would be killed.

2. The matter was informed to the O/C, Runikhata Police Station
who accordingly registered a case being Runikhata P.S. Case No. 27/2017 U/S
341/354(A)(I)/323/506 IPC read with Section 12 of POCSO Act and the O/C

himself investigated the case. Accordingly, he arrested the accused, visited the
Re

we

eqns

ye
x

go
noe

place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim
for medical examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164 CrPC and after
completion of investigation, submitted charge-sheet against the accused
Promod Basumatary U/S 341/354(A)/323/506 IPC read with Section 4 of
POCSO Act. After receiving charge sheet, copies of relevant documents were
furnished to the accused person. Accused was produced before the court from
jail. On perusal of entire materials on record and hearing both sides and after
having found a prima facie case, my learned predecessor framed charge U/S
341/354A/323/506 IPC read with Section 8 of POCSO Act against the accused.
Charge was read over and explained to the accused to which he denied to
plead guilty.

os In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as 8
(eight) witnesses including the I.0.

4. Following witnesses are examined:-
(1) Sri Septison Narzary as PW 1
(2) Sri Renjen Basumatary as PW 2
(3) Victim as PW 3
(4) Sri Lojit Basumatary as PW 4
(5) Smt. Nilima Narzary as PW 5
(6) Smt. Rinti Narzary as PW 6
(7) Smt. Khoki Basumatary as PW 7
(8) Sri Monoj Narzary as PW 8 (I.0.)

5; FIR was exhibited as Ext. 1. Seizure list was exhibited as Ext.2.
Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext. 3. Sketch map
was exhibited as Ext.4 and charge-sheet was exhibited as Ext.5

6. Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence.
7. Heard argument from both sides.
8. Now points for consideration:-

For the offence U/S 341 of IPC
1. Whether on 02.09.2017 at about 4:00 P.M. at Udalguri under
Runikhata P.S., the accused wrongfully restrained the victim,
the daughter of the informant, while she was coming from her
college towards home ?

For the offence U/S 354A of IPC

2. Whether on the said date, time and place, the accused
committed sexual harassment on the victim by physical contact
and advances involving unwelcome and explicitly sexual

overtures against her will ?

For the offence U/S 323 of IPC

3. Whether on the said date, time and place, the accused
voluntarily caused simple injury by blunt object to the victim ?

For the offence U/S 506 of IPC

4. Whether on the said date, time and place, the accused
committed criminal intimidation by threatening the victim with
injury to her person ?

For the offence U/S 8 of POCSO Act

Whether on the said date, time and place, the accused
committed sexual assault on the victim (A minor girl under the
age of 18 years) ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

9. Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record regarding above mentioned all points simultaneously for the sake of

convenience.

10. I have already mentioned that in support of the case,

prosecution side examined as many as eight witnesses including the I.O.
11. Victim girl was examined as PW 3. She deposed that on
02.09.17 at about 4.00 pm, she was returning from her college. The accused
had hidden himself in a jungle and he obstructed her way. After that he asked
her to get up on his bicycle. Accordingly, he took her on his bicycle. At that
time, accused was in drunken state. When the PW 3 declined to get up on
bicycle, the accused caught her hair and gave blow. At that moment, few
children came to the spot and accused drove them. After that one old man
also came to the spot. Then accused fled away and victim came along with
the said old man. During cross-examination, PW 1 stated that she was not
taken in bicycle of the accused. It is stated by victim that on the way, she met
her mother and reported the entire incident. The victim during the time of
investigation gave statement U/S 164 CrPC before the Magistrate which is also
exhibited in this case. According to her statement U/S 164 CrPC, she had not
stated that she was taken by accused on his bicycle. According to the victim,
at that moment, accused tried to take her on his bicycle but he could not do it
because victim protested. She was then attacked by the accused and gave

blow with his leg and hand.

12. The mother of the victim who was examined as PW 5 deposed
that on the date of occurrence i.e. on 02.09.2017 at about 4.30 pm, he
daughter was coming from her school in weeping condition. She asked her
about the reason of her weeping. Then victim reported her that one boy had
beaten her. He was in drunken state and tried to take the victim in his bicycle.
He also caught her hand and forcefully tried to take her on his bicycle but he
could not do that. According to PW 5, except this, nothing was happened.

13. PW 1 is the father of the victim who lodged the FIR. He
deposed that occurrence took place on 02.09.17 at about 4.00 pm. On that
day, his daughter went to her college and after returning, she reported that
on the way, a boy obstructed her and tried to take her to nearby jungle. He
also beat her. According to PW 1, victim reported him that accused tried to
commit sexual intercourse with her but she denied for which he beat her. He
also knew from the victim that some children witnessed the occurrence and
one elderly person came to the spot. After his presence, accused fled away

and victim came with him. Interestingly, said children were not examined.
Elderly person, who was present on the spot, was also not examined by the
prosecution. According to PW 1, at that time his daughter was reading in H.S.

1* year.

14. PW 2 deposed that at the time of occurrence, informant
reported him that accused tried to molest his daughter nearby jungle when
she was returning from her college. The villagers caught the boy after the
incident. On next day, matter was informed to nearby police station. Police
came to the spot and arrested the accused. This witness did not witness the

occurrence directly.

id. PW 4 also did not witness the occurrence. He heard from the
informant about the incident. This witness only stated that age of the victim
was about 16 years at the time of occurrence. During cross-examination, he
deposed that from the victim, he heard about the incident.

16. PW 6 Smt. Rinti Narzary and PW 7 Smt. Khoki Basumatary
deposed that they noticed the victim in weeping condition. They asked her
about the reason but she did not tell anything.

17. PW 8 is the Investigating Officer. According to him, on 03.09.17
he was working as Officer-in-Charge of Runikhata P.S. One Septison Narzary
lodged an FIR and accordingly, a case was registered being numbered as
Runikhata P.S. Case No. 341/354(A)/323/506 IPC read with Section 12 of
POCSO Act. After taking the charge of investigation, he recorded the
statement of different witnesses and collected school certificate of the victim
girl. She was medically examined. He also recorded her statement, visited the
place of occurrence and drew sketch map. According to PW 8, place of
occurrence was a road in between Odalguri village and Laimati. Bicycle was
not seized. He did not investigate about the bicycle. Accused was arrested at
police station when he was handed over by villagers. Statement of the victim
was recorded U/S 164 CrPC. It is found from his deposition that FIR was
lodged on 03.09.17 but occurrence took place on 02.09.17. According to
witnesses, accused was caught by villagers and kept in a club on that fateful
night. On next day, FIR was lodged.
Ce?

par
\ yo

18. I have gone through the statement of the victim recorded U/S
164 CrPC. In her statement, victim stated that accused only tried to take her
in his bicycle but could not do that. He followed her when she was returning
from her college. He obstructed her on the way. According to victim, he used
force and caught her hand but it is not proved that she was taken by the
accused in his bicycle. Interestingly, bicycle was also not seized by police. The
Investigating Officer failed to find whereabouts of the bicycle. Not a single
witness stated that bicycle was seized by police or it was taken in such and
such place. Therefore, deposition given by the victim that she was taken in a
bicycle by the accused is not believable. All other witnesses heard about the
incident from the victim, According to victim, one elderly person was present
but he was not examined by the Investigating Officer or prosecution. The
mother of the victim stated that accused tried to take the victim in his bicycle
for which he used criminal force and he caught her hand. Except this, nothing
was happened as stated by the mother of the victim to whom victim had
reported the matter after the incident.

19. Learned defence counsel pointed out that the prosecution
miserably failed to prove the allegation leveled against the accused. The age
of the victim was also not proved during the time of investigation or trial. No
any certificate was exhibited in this regard.

20. According to PW 4, age of the victim was about 16 years.
Victim stated that she is a student of Class XII. According to the informant,
the victim was reading in H.S. 1° year. So, from entire evidence, it is found
that age of the victim was not above 18 years but below 18 years. She was

minor at the time of occurrence.

21. Now, I come to the alleged offence. Charge was framed U/S 8
of POCSO Act which is a punishment section regarding sexual assault. Sexual
assault is defined in Section 7 as follows:

“7. Sexual Assault.— Whoever, with sexual intent touches the
vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the

vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or
does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact

without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.”

22. In the present case at hand, ingredients of Section 7 is not
proved. Therefore, accused cannot be booked for the offence U/S 8 of POCSO
Act.

23. It is found from the entire evidence on record that accused
obstructed the victim and used criminal force. So, section 341/323 IPC are
proved against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. Though charge was
framed U/S 354A IPC regarding sexual harassment but it is not proved against
the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. No specific evidence is found
regarding sexual harassment defined U/S 354A IPC.

24. Section 354 A IPC runs as follows:-

"354A. Sexual harassment and punishment for sexual
harassment: (1) A man committing any of the following acts:

i. physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and
explicit sexual overtures; or

ii. | a demand or request for sexual favours; or
iii. | showing pornography against the will of a woman; or
iv. making sexually coloured remarks,

shall be guilty of the offence of sexual harassment.”

25. From the entire evidence on record, the ingredients of Section
354A IPC is lacking. Therefore, accused cannot be booked for the offence U/S
354A IPC. On the other hand, it is found that accused followed the victim
when she was returning from the college and attempted to contact with her
and with foster personal interaction repeatedly. Therefore, Section 354D IPC is
found to be proved against the accused. The offence of stalking is defined U/S
354D IPC as follows:
"354D. Stalking: (1) Any man who:

i. follows a woman and contacts, or attempts to contact such
woman to foster personal interaction repeatedly despite a

clear indication of disinterest by such woman; or

li. | monitors the use by a woman of the internet, email or any

other form of electronic communication,
commits the offence of stalking.”

26. In the present case at hand, the victim Clearly stated that
accused at first followed her. After that he caught her hand and tried to take
her in his bicycle. From this conduct of the accused, it is proved that he
followed the victim and contacted her to foster personal interaction repeatedly
despite a clear indication of disinterest by the victim. So, prosecution failed to
establish the case U/S 354A IPC but established the case U/S 354D IPC,
Therefore, point number 2, 4 and 5 are not proved instead of which
prosecution proved the case U/S 341/323/354D IPC against the accused
beyond all reasonable doubt.

ORDER

2i; Prosecution failed to prove the case U/S 8 of POCSO Act
against the accused. Accused is acquitted from said offence. On the other
hand, prosecution also failed to prove the case U/S 354(A) IPC instead of
which prosecution proved the case U/S 354(D) IPC against the accused
beyond all reasonable doubt. Prosecution further proved the case U/S 341/323
IPC against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. Prosecution further
failed to prove the case U/S 506 IPC against the accused. Accused is convicted
U/S 341/323/354(D) IPC. Accused is acquitted from the offence U/S 8 of
POCSO Act read with Section 354(A)/506 IPC.

28. Considering the nature of offence, I have not applied Section
3/4 of Probation of Offenders Act or Section 360 CrPC because accused taking
the chance of loneliness, tried to harass the victim and used criminal force and
followed her with an evil intention. If this kind of person is allowed to be scot-
free, it will create chaos in the society.

29. Accused is sentenced to undergo 1 (one) month S.I. for the
offence U/S 341 IPC and undergo 3 (three) months S.J. for the offence U/S
323 IPC. He is further sentenced to undergo 8 (eight) months S.I. for the
offence U/S 354(D) IPC and to pay a fine of Rs. 2,000/- (Rupees Two
Thousand), in default, another 1 (one) months S.I. All these sentences will be
run concurrently.

30. Accused has been languishing in jail since 04.09.2017. The
entire period will be set off from the sentenced period according to Section
428 CrPC.

31. A copy of the Judgment shall be given to the accused on free
of cost. Another copy of the judgment shall be given to the District Magistrate,
Chirang and Superintendent of District Jail, Kokrajhar for information and
taking necessary action.

32. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 17" day
of May, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

Aabyi yeh ehaidt,
JS Pxd. Mahanta)
especial Judge.
Chirang. ~
Dictated and corrected by me,

hwo

(D.J. Mahanta)
Special Judge,
hirang.
aK KOK KK

gs
Chirang. Kaisigaon
10

APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Sri Septison Narzary
PW 2 — Sri Renjen Basumatary
PW 3 — Victim

PW 4 — Sri Lojit Basumatary
PW 5 - Smt. Nilima Narzary

PW 6 — Smt. Rinti Narzary

PW 7 — Smt. Khoki Basumatary
PW 8 — Sri Monoj Narzary (I.0.)

Exhibit (Prosecution ):

Ext-1 FIR

Ext-2 Seizure list

Ext-3 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-4 Sketch map

Ext-5 Charge-sheet

Material Exhibit (Prosecution):

Nil.

 

Defence Witness:
Nil.

 

Defence Exhibit:
Nil.

Aac®

(D.J. Mahanta)
Special Judge,

hi Udgs
thirang. Kaists
