Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: :: CACHAR.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20 of 2017

(U/S 4 of POCSO Act)

Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,

Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......cccccccsseecccccssssaessseeesssseeees Complainant.
-Versus-

Bishal Karmakal............cccccccccsssseeeeeseseeneeeeees Accused person.

Charge framed ON !-..........ccceeceeeeeestseeeeeesseeesessesennees 14.11.17.

P.Ws. examined on:-

20.03.18, 5.5.18,20.06.18,13.08.18,8.1.19,24.04.19,13.06.19
Statement of accused recorded under section 313 CrP.C on: 10.07.19
Argument heard On! ...........ccceeeeesseeeeeeeeeseesteeeeeesssessaeeeeens 10.07.19.

Judgment pronounced and delivered ON:-.........cccceeeeeeeeees 2.08.19.

Counsel Appeared:
For the State : Mr. R.M. Das, Ld. P.P.

For the Accused : Mr. N.R. Das, Advocate.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/17

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 29.05.2017 the
informant Bappon Kondo lodged an FIR with the O/C of Udharbond PS.
stating the facts that prior to the four months of filing of the FIR accused
Bishal Karmakar taking the advantage of absence of the informant and his
other inmates of the house at about 11 p.m. at night forcibly entered into
the house of the informant. Thereafter the said accused gagging the
mouth of Puja Kondo who is the’ minor sister of the informant and
threatening her of her life committed rape on her. Thereafter, after one
month when she felt pain on her stomach she apprised the same to the
accused and then the accused with the help of co-accused Sania Goala
administered medicine to her for abortion. Thereafter on 12/05/17 the
accused along with other co accused persons took the victim to the
hospital and got done sonography there. Thereafter co accused Kamala
Chanda took the victim in a house at Durgapally where she stayed for two
days and thereafter when the victim came to her house from the said
house her pregnancy was terminated.

On receipt of the FIR, case was registered vide Udharbond PS.
Case No.109/17 U/S 448 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. Police
started investigation and during the course of investigation the statement
of the victim girl was recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. The victim girl was also sent
to SMCH, Silchar for medical examination. The investigating officer visited
the place of occurrence and prepared a rough sketch map. He also
recorded statement of the witnesses and subsequently after completion of
investigation submitted charge sheet against accused Bishal Karmakar U/S
448 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.

2. The offence of the case being exclusively triable by the Court of
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/17

Special Judge, this case was taken up for trial after filing of the charge
sheet. In due course, upon appearance of the accused and after hearing
both sides formal charge U/S Section 4 of POCSO Act was framed by my Id.
predecessor in office against the accused person. The charges having been
read over and explained the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

3. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(i) Whether four months prior to lodging of the FIR
dtd.29/05/17 one day at about 11 p.m. the accused committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl in the house of the informant,

as alleged ?

4. From the prosecution side as many as 8 (eight) witnesses have
been examined including the M.O. The defence side has examined none.
Statement of the accused was recorded U/S 313 Cr.P.C. The defence plea is
total denial of the allegations. I have gone through the entire evidence on
record and have also heard the argument put forwarded by the learned
counsel for both the parties. Let me now discuss the evidence below in

details :

5. PW-3 Puja Kondu is the victim in the case. She deposed in her
evidence that about 5 / 6 days before the occurrence she was acquainted
with the accused Bishal Karmakar and thereafter accused used to talk to
her in the street and thereafter she felt stomach pain after seven days and
suffered vomiting. Then the informant Bappan Kondo who is the brother of
the victim suspected that she had been carrying pregnancy by the side of

the accused and accordingly he lodged an ejahar. PW-3 does not know her
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/17

age.

In her cross examination, PW-3 deposed that she did not have
any love affairs with the accused and also had no sexual relation with him.
One day when she felt pain on her stomach her elder brother Bappan on
doubt lodged this FIR.

PW-1 Bappon Kondo who is the informant of this case deposed
in his evidence without any implication to the accused that his sister victim
Puja Kondo had love affair with the accused and at the time of incident his
sister was aged 18 years. PW-1 lodged FIR with the police putting his
thumb impression.

In his cross examination PW-1 admitted that he contents of the
FIR.

6. PW-2 Rita Kunda, sister in law of the victim and the wife of the
informant deposed in her deposition that the accused and the victim were
in love with each other and one day the victim complained of stomach pain
to which his husband suspected that she got conceived through accused
Bishal for which he filed a complaint with the police stating that his sister
had been impregnated by the accused and later from the examination of
the doctor it revealed that she did not conceive at all. Defence declined to
cross examine her.

7. PW-4 Mona Konda and PW-5 Phoolonti Konda deposed in their
evidence in a similar manner without any implication to the accused that at
the relevant time PW-3 was suffering stomach pain for which her brother
PW.1 lodged an FIR against the accused out of suspicion that the accused
made the victim pregnant.

8. PW.7 is the M.O. Dr. Mrs. Monalisa Dev has deposed in her

evidence that she examined the victim on police requisition and the victim
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/17

gave history as that she was in relationship with the accused since last
one year and the victim became pregnant and accused gave some
abortificant medicine to eat to her and accused also forcibly made her to
eat such medicines and the expulsions occurred in her home and her
brother lodged the case as accused person were not contact with her.In
her finding she opined that the age of the individual is above 18 and below
20 years, evidence of recent sexual penetration not detected, injury marks
not detected on her person and genital except old hymeneal marks and
signs of recent abortion is not detected as on date of examination.

9. PW-8 is the I.O0 who deposed that he accomplished all the
routine works at the various stage of investigation viz drawing of sketch
map, visiting of P.O. etc and recorded the statement of the witnesses and
on his transfer he handed over the CD to the O/c Udharbond P.S. PW.6 SI
A.Nathlaskar another IO submitted the charge sheet.

10. Summing up all the evidence on record and on appreciation
over the same, it comes to the light that the prime witness, the victim girl
PW-3 did not at all implicate the accused person in the alleged offence of
crime. She only stated that her brother PW.1 lodged the case against the
accused out of suspicion. Another principal witness of this case is the
informant PW-1, who deposed that the victim was 18 years of age at the
time of occurrence and she had love affairs with the accused. In his cross
examination PW-1 deposed that he cannot say the contents of the FIR.
From the evidence of PW.2 ,the wife of the informant, PW-4 and PW.5, it
appears that the informant PW.1 lodged FIR against the accused out of
suspicion only. So, from the above evidence it is clear that the case has
been lodged against the accused out of suspicion. PW.7 the M.O. clearly
opined that the victim is above 18 and below 20 years, evidence of recent

sexual penetration not detected and no injury and sign of abortion
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.20/17

detected. Though the medical officer in her deposition stated that victim in
her history stated that the accused made her pregnant and accused gave
her some abortificant medicines but in view of the above evidence,
particularly, the evidence of victim and the findings of the medical officer
herself, this piece of evidence cannot be helpful to the case of the
prosecution. So it is crystal clear, that the case has been filed against the
accused merely on suspicion and not to speak of other witnesses the victim
PW.3 as well as the informant PW.1 who are the principal witnesses of this

case did not at all implicate the accused in the alleged offence of crime.

11. Upon consideration of all above aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/s 4 of POCSO Act
against the accused Bishal Karmakar as leveled against him.Due to the
dearth of evidence against the accused in the alleged commission of crime

he deserves to be acquitted.

12. In view of the above, accused person is held not guilty
and stand acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at
liberty forthwith. Bail bonds stand cancelled.
Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on

this the 2 day of August, 2019.
Dictated and corrected by me

( Darak Ullah )
Sessions Judge, Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee,
Stenographer Gr. I
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.20/17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR

Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 20 of 2017.
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

PW. 1 — Bappon Kondo.
PW. 2 — Rita Kunda.

PW. 3 — Puja Kondu

P.W. 4 — Mona Konda.
PW. 5 - Phoolonti Konda.
P.W. 6 - SI A. Nathlaskar.
P.W. 7 - Dr. M.Dev.

P.W. 8 - SI M.U.Laskar.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — Charge sheet.

Ext. 2 — Medical report.

Ext.3 - FIR

Ext.4 - Sketch map.

Ext. 5 -Statement of the victim
(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
