Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SESSIONS CASE NO. = 357 OF 2017
(Under Section 363/370 of the IPC, arising
out of GR Case No 4128 of 2017)

Present - Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Prosecutor - State of Assam
-Vs-
Accused :- 1. Sri Rahul. Kurmi,

S/o Lt Bikash Kurmi,
Vill- Kachubil; PS — Paneri,
Dist- Udalguri(Assam)

Date of framing charge _ 06-12-2017.

Date of Recording Evidence ~ 14-12-2017, 18-12-2017.

Date of examination of.accused u/s :- 18-12-2017.

313 of Cr.P.C.

Date of Argument - 18-12-2017.

Date of Judgment - 18-12-2017.

Counsel of the Prosecution ' Mr Munin Chandra Baruah,
Public Proecutor,
Sonitpur.

Counsel for Accused '- Mr A Das, Advocate.
Page |2

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Rahul Kurmi is put for trial for the allegation
of charge under Section 363/370 of the IPC.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that on 19-10-2017,
the informant’s minor daughter was kidnapped by the accused by a telephonic
communication with her and since then he took her here and there. Thereafter, on
24-10-2017 at about 3.00 PM, the minor daughter of informant took the accused
along with her to her house and on 25-10-2017 the minor daughter of thesinformant
along with the accused were handed over to Sootea Police Station.,Hence, this

prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by one Sonatan Nath ‘before OC, Sootea Police
Station on 25-10-2017. On receipt of ejahar, OC, Sootea,Police Station registered the
case vide Sootea Police Station Case No 151/17 under Section 363 of the IPC, r/w
Section 4 of POCSO Act. After completion of.investigation, O/C, Sootea Police Station

sent up the case against the accused person.under Section 363/370 of IPC for trial.

4. On being appeared, the accused before this Court, after hearing both
the parties, charge framed under Section 363/370 of IPC. Particulars of the charges
were read over, explained to_the accused to which he pleads not guilty and claimed
to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as four PWs
including the informant, victim and other most material witnesses. Learned Counsel
for *the_accused submitted to close the prosecution evidence on the ground that
statement of complainant and victim no way reveals any material against the
accused. So, it would be futile to examine the other witnesses. I have also heard
the learned PP.

6. I have thoroughly perused the whole case record as well as the
statement of PWs recorded so far. On close scrutiny of the statement of the
complainant and victim, it appears that neither the complainant nor the victim

reveals any incriminating material against the accused as to the alleged offence.
Page |3

Therefore, prosecution case would not develop, even if examine the other
prosecution witnesses. Speedy trial is the right of the accused. Considering this all,

and to secure ends of justice, prosecution evidence is closed.

7. After completion of prosecution evidence, accused persons were
examined under Section 313 CrPC. All the evidence appears against the accused
persons and the allegations made against the accused are put before him for their

explanation where he denied the allegations and declined to give defence evidence.

8. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned Counsel for
both the sides.
9. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) Whether on 19-10-2017 at Joypur, Joysidhi
under Sootea Police Station, accused attempted to
kidnap a minor girl namely Smti Ritamoni Devi and
thereby committed-an, offence punishable under
Section 363 of the IPC?

(2) Whether on the same date, time and place
mentioned above, accused attempted to import,
export, remove a minor girl namely Smti Ritamoni
Devi against her will as a slave and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section
370 of the IPC?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

 

10. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidences on
record.
11. PW1-Sri Sonatan Nath, who is the victim of this case stated that he

knows accused Rahul Kurmi and the victim Smti Ritamoni Devi is his daughter. At the
time of incident, she was 16 years old. The incident took place about two months
ago. His daughter was missing from his house. After three days, accused Rahul took
her to his home. He has seen accused Rahul and his daughter while accused took his
daughter to his house. After reaching the victim girl, he has filed the ejahar. Ext.1 is

the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his signature. She was examined medically and her
Page |4

statement was recorded by Magistrate and then she was given to his custody.
In cross-examination, he stated that at present he does not has any
complaint against accused as he got his daughter. He does not have any objection,

even if accused is enlarged on acquittal.

12. PW2-Sri Moniram Nath deposed that the complainant is his own
brother and he knows accused Rahul. After 2/3 days of missing of his niece, accused
Rahul took his niece to their home. Then his brother filed this case against the
accused. The name of his niece is Ritamoni Devi. At the time of incident, She.was
about 16/17 years old. After instituting the case, police took Rahul from the house of
his brother.

13. PW3-Sri Madan Nath deposed that he knows victim Ritamoni Devi.
The incident took place about two months ago. At the time.ofincident Ritamoni was
16/17 years old. On the day of incident at about 11 AM, Ritamoni was missing from
their house. They have searched her vigorously, but, did not find her. In the next
day, the father of the victim ring the victim¢as.the mother of the victim was serious.
So, victim along with accused came to the house of complainant after one day. Then,
he informed the matter to police Station. Ejahar was filed by the complainant
Sonatan Nath. When the victimsdisclosed that she does not like to go with the
accused, then accused was handed over to police. After recording the statement of
victim, the victim was handed over to her father.

In cross-examination, he stated that the victim and accused
themselves introduced over pone and thereafter loved each other and accordingly,
victim went with the accused. He also stated that since they got their girl(victim),

therefore,they do not have any objection, even if accused is enlarged on acquittal.

15. PW4- Smti Ritamoni Devi, the victim of this case deposed that she
knows accused Rahul Kurmi. The incident took place about one month ago. She
introduced accused through mobile phone and called the accused through mobile
phone, but, he did not come. Then, on the day of incident, she went to Choibari to
meet him at about 3.30 PM. He took her in a Magic vehicle to Nagaon. Thereafter, he
took her in train for three days. When a telephone call was come from her house
stating that her mother is seriously ill, so, they came back and went to their home.

Then, she came to know that the boy is a stupid one. She has narrated the whole
Page |5

incident to her father. Then her father filed this case. Thereafter, police examined her
medically and she was also sent to learned Magistrate for recording her statement
under Section 164 CrPC. Ext.2 is her statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC.
Ext.2(1), 2(2) and 2(3) are her signatures. Then her father took her custody. She is
still at her home. At the relevant time, she was about 16 years old.

In her cross-examination, she stated that she loved accused Rahul
Kurmi, so, at his call she willingly, went with him. In Ext.2, she has stated that
accused did not commit any misdeed to her. Lateron, they came to know that Rahul
Kurmi is a stupid boy. On the day when they, means she and Rahul Kurmi‘came to
their home, Rahul Kurmi stayed in their home for that night. She has proceeded with
him out of infatuation. She also stated that she does not have any grievances against
accused Rahul Kurmi. In fact She does not have any objection, if the accused is

enlarged on acquittal.

16. These much is the evidence of prosecution.

17. Defence plea is of total denial while his statement is recorded under
Section 313 of the CrPC.

18. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned Counsel for
both the parties.

18. The_learned Counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case beyond all reasonable doubt. Firstly, the victim herself
gives good bye to’ the prosecution case stating that she did not have any grievances
against..the accused Rahul Kurmi. Secondly, the father of the victim i.e. the
informant of this case also admitted that he does not have any complaint against the
accused as he got his daughter and he does not have any objection even if accused

is enlarged on acquittal. Therefore, there is no material against the accused.

19. Keeping in mind the rival submission advanced by the learned Counsel

for both parties, I am going to dispose of the case.

20. Here, in this case, the accused is charge under Section 363/370 of the

IPC. Since the case is charge under Section 370/34 of IPC, so, before averting to the
Page |6

other point, I would like to see what is the ingredients required to prove the charge
under Section 363/370 of the IPC. To prove the charge under Section 363 of IPC,

prosecution must proved that —

"(i) the person in question was at the time of
offence in India;

(ii) the accused conveyed that person beyond
the limits of India; or

(i1) he did so without the consent of that person,
or of some person legally authorized to consent
on that person's behalf.

Again to prove the charge under Section 370 of IPC, prosecution must proved that —

"(i) the accused imported, exported, etc., the
person in question as a slave; or

(ii) the accused accepted, ‘received or detained
the person in question as a.slave.

21. Here in this case, the victim is the main witness in this type of case.
The victim herself stated that she does nothave any grievances against the accused.
Besides, according to her she called«the accused through mobile phone, but, he did
not come. Then, on the day of incident, she went to Choibari to meet him at about
3.30 PM. He took her in Magic vehicle to Nagaon and thereafter, he took her in train.
When the telephone call)was’ come from her house stating that her mother is
seriously ill, so, they came back and went to their house. At the relevant time, victim
girl is aged about.17 years. There is ample opportunity for the accused forcefully
took her. But, during those three days, in the train, she never complains to any of
the co-passengers about the accused’s forceful kidnapping of her. Besides, there
appears the essence of her consent as because she herself stated that initially she
called the accused on her mobile phone, but, he did not come. During that journey
of alleged kidnapping, the victim got many opportunities to flee away from the
accused, but, she did not do so, neither she has complained to any of the
passengers on the way to Nagaon in those all three days journey at train. Therefore,
it implied that it cannot be ruled out about her consent. Hence, the ingredient of
Section 363 of the IPC is failed. Secondly, as stated above, the informant and victim
both admitted that they do not have any complain against the accused. Even they

have no any objection, if the accused is enlarged on acquittal. Besides, there is no
Page |7

any evidence that she has been sold as servant by the accused at any point of time.
Under such circumstances, the allegation of charge under Section 370 of IPC is also
failed.

22. Considering all these aspects, I am bound to hold that prosecution has
failed to prove the charges leveled against the accused person. Hence, accused
Rahul Kurmi is acquitted and set him at liberty forthwith.

23. The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.
Send back the GR Case Record being No 4128/17 along witha*copy of

judgment to the learned committal Court.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court’6n this the 18" day of
December, 2017.

(A. K. Borah)

Sessions Judge,

Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Dictated and corrected by me.

(Aw Ky, Borah)
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori,Das, Steno.
Page |8

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:
1.PW1 — Sri Sonatan Nath, complainant,
2.PW2 — Sri Moniram Nath,

3.PW3 — Sri Madan Nath &
4.PW4 — Smti Ritamoni Devi,victim.

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

1. Ext. 1: Ejahar.
2. Ext. 2 : Statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC,

Witnesses examined by defence:
Nil
Documents exhibited by the defence:

Nil

(A. K. Borah)
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
