PAGE:1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, NORTH SALMARA,
ABHAYAPURI

Present: Shri P. Bora, A.J.S.
Special Judge
North Salmara, Abhayapuri

Special (P) 36 (A) of 2019
U/S 6 of B.O.C.S.O Act,2012

State of Assam
Vs
Dhaneswar Nath

Appearance

Smti.R.Choudhury —~— --------- Special P.P. for the State.
Mr. A. Ali 2 ween nn nee Ld. Defence Counsel.
Charge framed on a. see eeees 19.06.2019

Evidence recorded on ~ ---------- 06.12.2019, 28.02.2020
Argument heard on =~ --------- 04.03.2020

Judgment pronounced on --------- 06.03.2020

UDGMENT

1 The case for the prosecution in brief is that on 20.04.2019, the
informant Smti. Lakhi Sutradhar lodged an FIR before the officer in
charge of Borghola Police Out Post under Abhayapuri Police Station,
alleging inter alia that the accused person, who used to reside nearby
their house, since last 1 % years back on promise to marry her minor
daughter, aged about 15 years entered into sexual intercourse with her
daughter against her will, due to which her daughter became pregnant.
It has also been alleged that on 19.04.2019, the Doctor has confirmed
the pregnancy of the daughter of the informant and on last previous
night at about 01:00 A.M, a male child was born to her daughter.
Hence, the case.
PAGE:2

2 After receiving the said FI.R. the officer-in-charge of Borghola
Police Out Post make a G.D. Entry vide G.D Entry No. 317 dated
20.04.2019, and forwarded the same to the officer in charge of
Abhayapuri police Station for registering a case. Accordingly after
receiving the said ejahar, the officer in charge of Abhayapuri police
station was pleased to register the same vide Abhayapuri PS case No.
221 dated 20.04.2019. Police started the investigation of this case and
after completion of the investigation, the investigating officer has
submitted charge sheet U/s 376 I.P.C, R/W Sec. 4 of P.O.C.S.O Act,
2012 against the accused person.

3. Accused person appeared before court to face the trial. The copies
of all the relevant documents furnished to the accused. After perusing
and considering all the relevant documents referred to u/s 173 Cr.P.C as
well as after considering the submissions put forwarded by the Ld.
Special PP and Ld. Counsel for defence, finding a prima facie case a
formal charge U/S_ 6 of the PO.C.S.O Act, 2012 has been framed
against the accused person and the same on being read over and
explained to the accused person to which accused person pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.

4 To bring home the charge against the accused person in this
case the prosecution side has adduced and examined 2 witnesses
including the informant and the victim but defence examined none.
Accused was also examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and on being so examined
accused person declined to adduce defence evidence and narrated
that false evidence has been adduced against him.

5.POINTS FOR DECISIONS

Whether the accused person on 19.04.2019, committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon the victim and thereby
committed an offence punishable U/S 6 of the P.O.C.S.O Act,2012.

6. DECISION AND REASONS FOR DECISION-

| have gone carefully through the entire evidence of the record. |
have also heard and considered the argument put forwarded by the Ld
Spacial P.P for the State as well as Ld. Counsel for defence.
PAGE:3

7. In this case the prosecution has examined the informant Smti.
Lakhi Sutradhar as PW-2 in course of evidence PW-2, the informant,
who is the mother of the victim of the incident as alleged stated that
the FIR was not written by herself as because she is an illiterate person
. PW-2 also stated she does not know the person who has written the
FIR and she only put her thumb impression in the FIR. It also reveals
from the evidence of PW-2 that as because she is an illiterate person,
neither she herself read out the contents of the FIR nor the contents of
the FIR was read over to her by anyone. Accordingly, PW-2 in course of
her evidence clearly stated that she does not know what has been
written in the FIR. Thus, it appears that PW-2, the mother of the victim
of the incident as alleged, who herself lodged the FIR expressed her
ignorance about the fact as alleged in the FIR and in my considered
view such kind of ignorance about the fact as alleged in the FIR on the
part of the infomant definitely weaken and reduced the weight,
authenticity and credibility of the FIR, the basic structure on which the
whole prosecution case is relied and rested upon and which puts the
machinery of law in to motion. Accordingly on this point benefit goes to
defence.

8. That apart, in course of cross examination PW-2, the informant
stated that she herself had not gone to the police station to lodge the
FIR, rather one of his nephew and some other villagers after taking her
thumb impression in the FIR has lodged the FIR in the police station.

9. In this case in examination in chief although PW-2 stated that
about one year back on a day while her daughter was suffering from
abdominal pain, she had taken her daughter to the Hospital and while
the pregnancy of her daughter was detected on being asked, her
daughter told her that the accused person is responsible for her
pregnancy and her daughter has gave birth of a male child but in
course of cross examination PW-2 clearly stated that in fact the
accused person is innocent, rather her daughter was pregnant by her
nephew Sateswar and not by the accused. In course of cross
PAGE:4

examination PW-2 clearly stated that the name of her nephew is
Sateswar, who used to reside with them with in the same campus.
PW-2 further stated that although her daughter was pregnant by her
nephew Sateswar, who wanted to marry her daughter but due to fear
of social contempt they refused to give marriage of her daughter to her
nephew Sateswar. In course of cross examination PW-2 reiterated that
in fact the accused person is innocent and her daughter was pregnant
by her nephew Sateswar. That apart in course of cross examination PW-
2 clearly stated that only to escape from the public contempt while her
daughter become pregnant her daughter has pointed the accused
making him responsible for her pregnancy and in fact her daughter was
pregnant not by the accused but by her nephew Sateswar.

10. Inthis case the prosecution side has examined the victim as PW-
1 and exhibited her statement as recorded u/s 164 CrPC, vide Ext. 1
and Ext. 1(1) & Ext. 1(2) are the signatures of PW-1.

11. Now let us discuss, asses and evaluate the evidentiary value of
PW-1, who is the victim of this case. Like PW-2, PW-1, the victim in
course of her evidence although stated that above 17 months back on
a day in absence of other family members in their house at about
08:00 P.M, the accused person after entering inside their house
forcefully taken her to the kitchen garden which is situated in the back
side of their house and rapped her due to which after nine months
while she was taken by her mother to the Hospital, her pregnancy was
detected and on being asked by her mother and other persons, she
told them that she was pregnant by the accused person, but in course
of cross examination PW-1 clearly stated that she had a love affair with
Sateswar, the son of her maternal uncle and on several occasions she
used to enter into sexual intercourse with him due to which she
became pregnant. In course of cross examination PW-1 stated that
after the birth of her child, a public meeting was held in their village,
where Sateswar admitted and acknowledged that she was pregnant by
him and confirmed his paternity over that child. That apart, in course of
cross examination PW-1 clearly stated that after 10 days of the birth of
PAGE:5

the child, she eloped with Sateswar. Again in course of cross
examination PW-1 reiterated the fact that the accused person is not at
all responsible for her pregnancy, rather she was pregnant by
Sateswar, the son of her maternal uncle. In this case although the
prosecution side has exhibited the statement of PW-1 as recorded u/s
164 CrPC, as exhibited vide Ext. 1 and also exhibited the signatures of
PW-1 vide Ext. 1(1) & Ext. 1(2), but in course of cross examination PW-
1 clearly stated that she has given her statement as tutored and forced
by the police personnel and her mother as well as other family

members.
12. The above is the threadbare discussion of the evidence on
record.

13. After perusing and considering the evidence on record in its
entirely and considering the argument put forwarded by the learned
counsel for the prosecution as well as defence, it appears that in this
case the prosecution side has failed to produce any solid and concrete
evidence against the accused person. In this case, the evidence of
P.W.2, who is the informant of this case appears to be not in conformity
with the fact as alleged in the FIR. That apart PW-2 who is the
informant of this case has also expressed her ignorance about the fact
as alleged in the FIR, and such kind of ignorance about the fact as
alleged in the FIR, on the part of the informant definitely weaken and
reduced the weight and authenticity as well as credibility of the whole
prosecution case. In this case the prosecution side have failed to
extract any corroboration or support to build up and establish its case
as alleged against the accused person from the evidence of PW-1, the
victim, who is the star witness of this case. That apart non-examination
of Medical Officer and Investigating Officer for the reason best known
to the prosecution has also weaken the case of the prosecution. After
perusing and considering the evidence on record no inference can be
drawn from the evidence of any single witnesses that the accused

person is in any way involved in commission of the offence as alleged.
PAGE:6

14. In the ultimate analyses on the light of above discussion, it
appears that in this case the prosecution side has failed to produce any
single iota of evidence against the accused person which is sufficient to
fasten the accused with the charge as alleged against him beyond all
reasonable doubt. Thus, in this case the prosecution has not only failed
to operate the switch of the prosecution case for ignition but could not
even identify and point out the proper switch of the prosecution on the
board itself and hence the court have no any alternative but to acquit
the accused person from the charge as lavelled against him.

15. | therefore acquit the accused person from the charge as
levelled against him. | also released the accused person from liability of
bail bond and set him at liability.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this 06" day of
March/2020.

Dictated and corrected by me

Special Judge Special Judge
North salmara, Abhayapuri North salmara, Abhayapuri
PAGE:7
APPENDIX

. Prosecution Exhibits

Exhibit 1 - The statement of PW-1 u/s 164
CrPC.

Exhibit 1(1) - The signatures of P.W.1.

Exhibit 1(2)

. Material Exhibit by prosecution

Nil
. Defence Exhibits NIL
. Prosecution Witnesses
PW-1 Miss. Chandana Sutradhar, the victim
PW-2 Smti. Lakhi Sutradhar, the informant
. Defence Witnesses NIL
. Court Witnesses NIL

Special Judge
North salmara, Abhayapuri
