IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE eri: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.33/2018

State of Assam
Versus
Sri Lutyash Hembrom _i_....... Accused

Present: Smti Mitali Thakuria,M.Sc,LLB,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State : Mr M.K.Ghose, Special P.P.

Ld. advocate for the accused: Mr S.Basumatary

Evidence recorded on :18.12.18, 20.3.19, 16.5.19, 19.6.19,
03.7.19, 22.10.19, 06.11.19, 18.12.19

Argument heardon —: 02.01.2020

Judgment delivered on : 21.01.2020

J U DG M EN T

1. The prosecution initiated the case on receipt of the first information
report lodged by the informant Sri Mangal Murmu with the allegation that on
24.7.2018 at about 2 A.M. (night) his four years old minor daughter Amita
Murmu has been kidnapped by the accused Lutyash Hembrom and after half
hour they found their minor daughter inside the jungle and on enquiry she
reported that the accused opened her panty and frock etc. and put his fingers
inside her mouth and tried to misbehave with her and hence, the first information

report.
Special Case No.33/18

2

2. On receipt of the first information report in Gurufela Police Out
Post the same has been sent to Kochugaon P.S. for registration of the case
making Gurufela O.P. GDE No.406 dated 25.7.2018. Accordingly the case has
been registered as Kochugaon P.S. case No.24/2018 under sections 448/363 of
IPC, read with section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act
and the case was endorsed to S.J. Manturam Barman for investigation. During
investigation the I.O. visited to the place of occurrence and recorded the
statement of the witnesses, arrested the accused, medically examined the victim
and after ascertaining the minor age of the victim, the charge sheet has been filed
by the I.O. under sections 448/363 of IPC, read with section 8 of POCSO Act
against the accused Lutyash Hembrom. Relevant copies also furnished to the
accused person and framed the charge under sections 448/363 of IPC, read with
section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused person finding a prima-facie case.
The charges were read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.

3. The prosecution side examined as many as 10 (ten) number of

witnesses including the informant, victim, M.O. and I.O. as follows:-

The prosecution witnesses are:
PW 1 Miss Amita Murmu (Victim),

PW 2 Miss Noha Murmu,

PW 3 Sri Mangal Murmu (Informant),
PW4 Sri Surka Murmu,

PW5 Smti Tolomoy Hembrom,
PW6 Sri Robin Hembram,

PW7 Sri Arjun Murmu,

PW8 Dr Sushma Brahma,

PW9 S.I. Mantu Ram Barman,
PW10 Smti B.Gogoi (Magistrate),
The Defence witnesses are:

1. DW1 Sri Rangha Soren and

2. DW2 Sri Bimal Mardi.
Special Case No.33/18

3
4. The accused person took the plea of total denial while recording his
statement under section 313 of Cr.P.C. and adduced two DWs in support of his
case.
5. Points for determination:
(1) Whether the accused committed the offence of house trespass of
the land of the informant ?
(2) Whether the accused kidnapped the minor victim from lawful
guardian to an unknown place ?
(3) Whether the accused committed the offence of penetrative
sexual assault to the minor victim ?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

 

6. After thorough perusal of the case record including the evidence,
first information report etc. and hearing argument from both the parties, I have
decided the case as follows with my reason thereof:-

7. The first information report of the instant case was lodged by one
Sri Mangal Murmu alleging that on 24.7.2018 at about 2 A.M. his four years old
minor daughter Amita Murmu has been kidnapped by accused Lutyash
Hembrom and after half hour they found their minor daughter inside the jungle
and on enquiry she reported that the accused opened her panty and frock etc. and
put his fingers inside her mouth and tried to misbehave with her. Prior to the
filing of the first information report the I.O. started investigation on receiving the
information from the village headman Sri Robin Murmu when the villagers had
confined the accused on the allegation that he tried to commit rape on the minor
girl and accordingly the I.O. made GDE and visited the place of occurrence.

8. The informant adduced his evidence as PW3 and deposed that he

along with his wife were sleeping in one room and his four years minor daughter
Special Case No.33/18

4

was Sleeping in another room. In the night he heard hulla from another room and
then came to know that his youngest daughter Amita Murmu is missing. There
was hue and cry and all the neighbours also came out but, they could not trace
her out and after some time she herself came out from the jungle and on enquiry
he came to know that the accused Lutyash Hembrom took her inside the jute
cultivation and asked her to sit on the ground and covering her mouth he opened
her panty and frock and entered his finger into her mouth. Thereafter he entered
his finger into the vagina and the village bicher was held and as per the decision
of the villagers he lodged the first information report.

9. The minor victim of this case also gave her statement as PW1.
After putting some preliminary questions and capacity of understanding of the
minor is judged and then her statement was recorded with the help of interpreter
in presence of her mother. She deposed that on the night of the occurrence the
accused Lutyash Hembrom took her when she was sleeping with her elder sister
Fulmoni. He took her inside jute cultivation, put off her panty and frock and then
he entered his finger into her vagina and then into her mouth. She got hurt and
cried and thereafter the accused Lutyash Hembrom fled away from there and
then she came out and saw her father and other persons. She also deposed that
she was brought before the learned Magistrate and she gave her statement.

10. PW2 is the elder sister of the victim who is also minor of 8 years
old and hence her statement was also recorded after assessment of her capacity of
understanding. She also identified the accused and deposed that on the night of
occurrence she was sleeping with her sister Amita Murmu. Accused Lutyash
Hembrom entered into their room and opened her panty and frock and she woke
up and could identify him. But, out of fear she did not make any hue and cry and

thereafter he went out of their house. After some time he again came inside the
Special Case No.33/18

5
room and this time he opened skirt of her elder sister Fulmoni when she woke up
accused Lutyash went out of their room. After a while he again came inside of
their house and took her youngest sister Amita. She then told to other sisters and
reported the matter to their parents.
11. PW4 one of the neighbours and as per him all the neighbours came
to the house of the informant Mangal Murmu hearing noise in his house and then
he informed that his youngest daughter Amita has missing. They all were busy in
searching the victim and after her recovery she reported that the accused took her
inside the jungle and opened her frock and panty and entered his fingers into her
mouth. She got hurt on the neck.
12. PWS5 is the mother of the victim and corroborating the evidence of
her husband she also deposed that they were sleeping in another room and their
daughter were sleeping in another room when accused Lutyash Hembrom
entered into their house, initially he touched her daughter Noha Murmu and tried
to open her cloth and when she woke up he went out of the room and thereafter
he again came inside the room and took their youngest daughter Amita Murmu.
They came to know about the same from their daughter and thereafter she along
with her husband and other villagers started searching their daughter and finally
they recovered their daughter inside the jute cultivation. After her recovery she
reported that accused took her inside the jute cultivation and entered his finger
into her mouth.
13. PW6 Robin Hembrom, village headman deposed that on the day of
the incident the informant and other villagers brought the accused Lutyash to his
residence and on enquiry the informant told him that the accused took his minor
daughter inside the jute cultivation and by opening her frock and panty etc. he

put his finger into her mouth. The minor victim also reported the matter to him
Special Case No.33/18

6
and thereafter accused also confessed his guilt before the villagers. As per him
the victim could not exactly pointed the accused Lutyash but, she stated that a
person who took her is very much similar to the accused Lutyash.
14. PW7 another neighbour who also engaged himself in the night in
searching the victim and after her recovery she narrated the incident to him.
15. PW8 is M.O. of this case and as per his opinion the victim is
between 4 to 6 years old and she has not exposed any sexual intercourse.
16. PW9 is I.O. of this case and he deposed that getting the information
from the village headman that the villagers kept confined a person who
committed rape on the minor girl, he made GDE No.402 dated 25.7.2019 (Ext.4)
and rushed to the place of occurrence. Accused was apprehended and he recorded
the statement of the witnesses on the spot, victim was medically examined,
accused was forwarded to the court and statement of the victim was also
recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C. Apart from her statement the I.O. also
recorded the statement of her parents and her elder sister under section 164
Cr.P.C. On completion of investigation he filed the charge-sheet against the
accused Lutyash Hembrom under sections 448/366(A) of IPC read with section 4
of POCSO Act.
17. The prosecution examined the learned Magistrate, Smti B. Gogoi
who was working as Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate (S), Kokrajhar during
that period who recorded the statement of the victim Amita Murmu, her elder
sister Noha Murmu and her parents.
18. From her evidence it is seen that the statements were recorded after
seven days of the occurrence. She took help of one official employee as
interpreter while recording the statement of the witnesses.
19. So from the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses discussed
above, it is seen that PW1 and PW2, minor daughters of the informant clearly

stated in their evidence that on the night of the incident the accused entered into
Special Case No.33/18

7

their house misbehaved all the sisters and finally he took youngest one Amita
Murmu inside the jute cultivation and had penetrative sexual assault on her.

20. PW3 and PW5 father and mother of the victim respectively also
corroborated their statements to the extent that the accused entered into their
house and took their youngest daughter Amita Murmu inside the jute cultivation
and had penetrative sexual assault on her. He opened the frock and panty, put his
fingers into her mouth and also inside her vagina. PWs4, 5, 6 and 7 are the
independent witnesses but, they also engaged themselves in searching the victim
when they came to know about her missing and after her recovery the victim
reported before them that the accused forcibly took her inside the jute cultivation
opened her frock and panty and put his fingers into her mouth. So all the
prosecution witnesses corroborating to each other has specifically stated that in
the night of the occurrence accused Lutyash entered into the house of the
informant and took their youngest daughter Amita inside the jute cultivation and
had penetrative sexual assault on her.

21. So the cross evidence of all the witnesses have to be scrutinized
carefully to arrive at a just decision. The learned advocate appeared on behalf of
the accused has stressed on the point of identification of the accused person.
PWs1 and 2 victim and eye witness of the case deposed that they could identify
the accused Lutyash. It is also raised by the learned advocate that as per PW1
there was electric light inside their house and she could identify him when he
was lifting her but, as per PW2 the electric light of their varandah was switched
on but, the bulb inside room was switched off. So the learned advocate for the
accused brought this contradiction and submitted that this is major contradiction

between two vital witnesses. It is admitted that as per PW1 the light in varandah
Special Case No.33/18

8
of their house was switched off and as per PW2 the light of varandah of their
house was switched on and the light inside of their house was switched off. The
fact remained that in the night both PWs1 and 2 could identify the accused
Lutyash in the light of electric bulb. Both the witnesses are of minors age and
hence there may be some sort of discrepancies in regard to the switch on or off of
electric bulb but, for that their entire evidence specially about the identification
of the accused cannot be discarded. PW2 also stated that she could identify the
accused easily as he belonged to their village and she knows him since earlier.
From her evidence it also reveals that there was sufficient electric light in the
varandah and the accused could easily be identified.
22. The Hon'ble Gauhati High Court in a case reported in 2001 (1)
GLR 557 has held that- “over importance should not be attached to omission or
contradiction or minor discrepancies which do not go to the root of the matter
and shake the basic version of the prosecution.”
23. Another point raised by the learned advocate for the accused as to
why the informant waited to lodge the FIR only after the village bicher if the
accused was identified in the night itself ?
24. But, from the GDE of the I.O. as well as from the evidence of the
witnesses it is very much clear that the incident took place in the midnight and
the accused was brought from his own house on the next day only and then a
village bicher was held which is very common in the village and in the society to
which the parties belonged and the first information report was lodged only
when the accused confessed his guilt before the villagers. It is very evident from
the testimonies of the I.O. that he immediately rushed to the place of occurrence
getting the information about the confinement of the accused by the villagers
where from he apprehended the accused and also brought the victim and other

witnesses and her parents to the police station. So merely for delay of lodging the
Special Case No.33/18

9

first information report for one day and for non-explanation of delay of the first
information report could not be the only ground to disbelieve the prosecution
case. The incident took place in the midnight of 24.7.18 and the first information
report was lodged by the informant on the next day i.e. 25.7.18. It reveals from
the evidence of the prosecution witnesses that after recovery of the girl the
villagers enquired about the matter and came to know about the involvement of
the accused and accordingly on the next day i.e. 25.7.18 he was brought for the
village bicher and thereafter the first information report was lodged. So for such
delay prosecution case cannot be disbelieved.

25. Another point raised by the learned defence counsel is non-
examination of another vital witness Fulmoni, elder daughter of the informant.
But, the question arises as to whether due to non-examination of the witness
Fulmoni creates any doubt in the veracity of the prosecution case. Admittedly
Fulmoni was sleeping in the same room when the accused entered into their
house and he also touched her body but, it is to be seen as to whether the
prosecution failed to establish the case inspite of non-examination of vital
witness Fulmoni. More so, Fulmoni is the elder sister of both PWs1 and 2 and
hence it cannot be expected that she would have not deposed in favour of the
prosecution if she would have been examined by the prosecution.

26. During the course of argument the learned advocate for the accused
also stressed on the point that the extra-judicial confession of the accused before
the villagers. PWs testified that the accused was brought in the village bicher
where the matter was enquired and accordingly he confessed before the villagers
about the commission of offence. But, the learned advocate stressed on the point
that his confession before the villagers was not voluntarily and it was under

threat and compulsion and hence it cannot be accepted. But, all the prosecution
Special Case No.33/18

10

witnesses have denied when it was suggested that the accused confessed his guilt
only out of fear and compulsion. But, at the same time it is admitted that some of
the villagers present in the meeting assaulted the accused out of angerness but his
confession before the villagers has established and all the prosecution witnesses
corroborating to each other have deposed that the accused confessed his guilt
when the matter was enquired. The defence also examined two witnesses who
also claimed their presence in the meeting and deposed in favour of the accused
stating that the villagers made him bound to confess in the village bicher. But,
from the DWs it is very much evident that they have also heard about the
incident from the villagers that the accused took youngest daughter of the
informant inside the jute cultivation. DW1 claimed his presence at the time of
village bicher but, DW2 was not present in the village bicher and he only had
impression the accused confessed only when the villagers were assaulted the
accused. From these DWs it is seen that they have also heard about the incident
and the accused was brought in the house of the village headman only for the
bicher for the alleged offence.

27. It is admitted that extra-judicial confession is a weak piece of
evidence and the court must ensure that the same inspires confidence and is
corroborated by other prosecution evidence. In order to accept extra-judicial
confession, it must be voluntary and must inspire confidence. If the court is
satisfied that the extra-judicial confession is voluntary, it can be acted upon to
base the conviction. It is well settled that conviction can be based on a
voluntarily confession but the rule of prudence requires that wherever possible it
should be corroborated by independent evidence. Extra-judicial confession of

accused need not in all cases be corroborated. In Madan Gopal Kakkad Vs
Naval Dubey and Another (1992) 3 SCC 204, the Apex Court after referring
Special Case No.33/18

11
to Piara Singh and Others Vs. State of Punjab (1977)4 SCC 452 held that
“the law does not require that the evidence of an extra-judicial confession should
in all cases be corroborated. The rule of prudence does not require that each and
every circumstances mentioned in the confession must be separately and
independently corroborated”.
28. Here in the instant case it is seen that the prosecution not only
brought the evidence of extra-judicial confession by the accused but also able to
produce sufficient corroborative evidence to prove the commission of offence by
the accused.
29. The circumstances of the prosecution case is that in the midnight
the accused entered into the house of the informant where his daughters were
sleeping and PW1 and PW2 could identify the accused in the light of electric
bulb. Both the witnesses the victim and her elder sister are very specific and their
identification of the accused could not be rebutted by cross-examining them.
Both the minor girls specifically stated that they could identify the accused in the
light of electric bulb.
30. In this context the learned advocate for the accused took the plea
that both PWs1 and 2 i.e. victim and eye witness of the case are child witnesses
and hence their evidence could not be accepted as they can be very easily
influenced. Regarding the evidence of acceptance of the child witness a case of

Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2008) 12 SCC 565 Nivrutti_Pandurang

Kokate Vs State of Maharashtra can be cited which was relied on the case of

Hemmat Sukhadeo Wahurwagh Vs State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 712
(FB), the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has held that-
Special Case No.33/18

12
seceeee Though it is an established principle that child witnesses are
dangerous witnesses as they are pliable and liable to be influenced easily, shaped
and molded, but it is also an accepted norm that if after careful scrutiny of their
evidence the court comes to the conclusion that there is an impress of truth in it,
there is no obstacle in the way of accepting the evidence of a child witness.”

As per section 118 of the Evidence Act, 1872, all persons shall be
competent persons to testify unless the court considers that they are prevented
from understanding the questions put to them, or from giving rational answers to
those questions.

31. Coming to the medical evidence it is seen that the doctor did not
find any injury mark on her body and private part and it is also opined that the
victim has not been exposed to sexual intercourse. At the same time it is also
opined by the doctor that the victim is between 4 to 6 years but not above 7
years.

32. In this context the learned advocate for the defence has submitted
that there is no injury mark on the private part of the victim though it is alleged
that he put his fingers into her vagina. It is alleged against the accused that he
took the victim inside the jute cultivation made her laying on the ground put off
her frock and panty and put his fingers into her mouth and vagina for which she
got hurt. But, there is no evidence that he forcibly put his fingers into her vagina
causing injury on her private part nor it is stated by the witnesses that the minor
girls sustained injury on her private part while entering his fingers into her
vagina but, it is alleged that she got hurt when the accused put his fingers into her
mouth. PW1, minor victim of the case is very specifically stated that after
opening her panty and frock the accused put his fingers into her vagina and then

put his fingers into her mouth for which she got hurt. The mother of the victim
Special Case No.33/18

13
(PWS) also corroborated the victim and they deposed that the minor girl
sustained injury on her mouth as the accused put his fingers into her mouth.
Bo. Section 3 of the POCSO Act read as follows:-

A person is said to commit “penetrative sexual assault” if-

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth,
urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other
person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object of a part of the body, not
being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the
child to do so with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the
child or makes the child to do so to such person of any other person.

As per the provision of this Act even manipulation of any part of
the body of a child so as to cause penetration would amount to penetrative sexual
assault which is available under section 4 of POCSO Act [2017 SCC Gau 576 -
Sri Kamakhya Roy Vs State of Assam].

34. But, here in the instant case it is seen that penetrative sexual assault
on the minor victim is not only established but it is also seen that the victim is a
girl of four years and hence it comes under section 5 (m) of POCSO Act i.e.
aggravated form of penetrative sexual assault. But inadvertently the charge was
framed under section 4 of POCSO Act and the case was proceeded accordingly.

However, it was within the knowledge of the accused that he is charged with the
Special Case No.33/18

14

allegation of penetrative sexual assault on the minor girl of four years old.
During the entire proceeding also the accused had knowledge about the age of
the victim and defence also cross-examined the minor victim and other witnesses
accordingly. So no prejudice will be caused if the accused is convicted under
section 6 of POCSO Act instead of under section 4 of POCSO Act as he got
ample opportunity to defend his case for the charge levelled against him for a
penetrative sexual assault on a minor girl of 04 years. The prosecution could
establish that the accused kidnapped the minor victim, took her inside the jute
cultivation and he entered his fingers into her mouth and vagina. Thus, it is seen
that the case is well established against the accused under section 363/448 of IPC
and under section 6 of POCSO Act.

35. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case reported in (1983) 3 SCC
217 Bharwada_ Bhoginbhi Hirjubhai_ V. State of Gujrat_has held that-
“testimony of victim of sexual assault is vital and unless there are compelling
reasons which necessitates looking for corroboration of her statement, the Court
should not find difficulty in acting on the testimony of the victim of sexual
assault alone to convict an accused when her testimony inspires confidence and
found to be reliable. Seeking corroboration of her statement before relying upon
the same as rule in such cases amounts to adding insult to the injury”.

36. In the instant case also it is seen that there is nothing to disbelieve
the victim (PW1) irrespective of the fact that she is child witness. The defence
also could not bring any evidence or reason to lodge false case against him by the
informant. While recording the statement of the accused he only took the plea
that the FIR was lodged against him only on suspicion and compelled him to

confess about the guilt. But, he could not substantiate the plea that the FIR was
Special Case No.33/18

15
lodged by the informant only on suspicion. The evidence of both the child
witnesses i.e. PWs1 and 2 could not be rebutted by cross-examining them or
from the evidence of DWs. Rather, it is seen from the evidence of DWs that the
accused was brought by the villagers and in the said meeting he confessed his
guilt.
37. So considering the detail discussion made above, it is held that the
prosecution is able to establish the case against the accused Sri Lutyash
Hembrom under section 6 of POCSO Act and under section 448/363 of IPC and
accordingly the accused is convicted under the said section of law.
38. I have considered section 360 Cr.P.C. to release the accused on
probation. But, the heinous crime of committing penetrative sexual assault with
04 years old minor girl shakes our judicial conscience. The offence is inhuman.
Sexual violence apart from being dehumanizing act is an unlawful intrusion of
right of privacy and sanctity of a female and as such the accused does not
deserve such leniency.
39. Heard the accused on the point of sentence under section 235 (2)
Cr.P.C. which is written in separate sheet and tagged the same with case record.
He submitted that he is poor person and has family burden and there is none to
look after his wife, children and old ailing mother who solely depend on him and
accordingly, he prays for his release without any sort of punishment.
AO. The object of the sentence should be to protect the society and deter
the criminal. Gravity of the offence, mitigating factors, manner in which the
offence was planned and committed, prescribed punishment and the social
abhorrence of the offences etc. are indicators for sentencing. Reference in this

regard made to the Judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in 2016 (16)
SCC 441 (Jasbir Singh Vs Tara Singh).
Special Case No.33/18

16

Al. In the present case the accused not only lifted minor girl of 04 years
of age but took her inside the jute cultivation and committed penetrative sexual
assault on her and he also tried to had sexual assault to other sisters of the minor.
42. However considering the entire circumstances of the case, I find
that it is not a fit case for sentencing the accused with the maximum punishment
of imprisonment for life and hence Rigorous Imprisonment for 10 (Ten) years
with fine will meet the ends of justice for the convicted section 6 of the POCSO
Act and Rigorous Imprisonment for 01(One) year with fine for the section 363
of IPC and Simple Imprisonment for 03(Three) months for the section 448 of
IPC will meet the ends of justice.

O R DER
43. In the result, the accused Lutyash Hembrom is hereby convicted
under section 6 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act and section
363/448 of IPC and hereby sentenced with Rigorous Imprisonment for 10
(Ten) years along with fine of Rs.2,000/- (Rupees Two Thousand) only for the
convicted section 6 of the POCSO Act. In default of payment of fine will
undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for two months. Further he is sentenced with
R.I. for 01 (One) year along with fine of Rs.500/- (Rupees Five Hundred) only
for the section 363 of IPC and in default of payment of fine will undergo S.I. for
01 (One) month and further will undergo S.I. 03 (Three) months for the
convicted section 448 of IPC. All the sentences for imprisonment will run
concurrently. The period of custody of the accused shall be set off from the
period of sentence, if any.
44. Free copy of the judgment be furnished to the convict Lutyash
Hembrom under section 363 of Cr.P.C. and also a copy of the Judgment be
furnished to the learned District Magistrate, Kokrajhar complying the provision

of under section 365 of Cr.P.C.
Special Case No.33/18

17
The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the Court on this 21st January/2020 at Kokrajhar Court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
Special Case No.33/18

18
Appendix

The prosecution witnesses are:
PW 1 Miss Amita Murmu (Victim),

PW 2 Miss Noha Murmu,

PW 3 Sri Mangal Murmu (Informant),
PW4 Sri Surka Murmu,

PW5 Smti Tolomoy Hembrom,

PW6 Sri Robin Hembram,

PW7 Sri Arjun Murmu,

PW8 Dr Sushma Brahma,

PW9 S.I. Mantu Ram Barman,

PW10 Smti B.Gogoi (Magistrate),

The Court Witness is : Nil
The Defence witness is:

1. DW1 Sri Rangha Soren and
2. DW2 Sri Bimal Mardi.

The exhibited documents are:

1. Ext-1 — ... Medical report of the victim,

2. Ext.2 _ ... Charge sheet,

3. Ext.3 —... FIR,

4. Ext.4 _ ...Extract copy of GDE,

5. Ext.5 ...Sketch map,

6. Ext.6 .... Statement of victim Amita Murmu,

6. Ext.7 —_....Statement of witness Noha Murmu,

7. Ext.8  ....Statement of witness/ informant Mangal Murmu,
8. Ext.9 — ....Statement of witness Tolomoy Hembrom.

The Defence witness and exhibit: Nil.

Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
