Special (POCSO) Case No. 15 of 17 Page |1o0f8

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE tiststrtrt::::: GOALPARA.

Present: Shri T.K. Bhattacharjee, AJS.
Special Judge, Goalpara

Special (POCSO) Case No. 15/17

u/s: 417/313/506 of the IPC
read with section 4/8 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam
-Versus-

Md. Sanowar Rahman —__i—n. eeeeeeeeaee Accused.

Appearance:
For the prosecution : Mr. S. Sarma, learned Special Public Prosecutor.

For the defence : Mr. S. Rahman, learned Advocate.

Dates of evidence : 18.03.2019; 01.07.2019; 29.07.2019; 02.09.2019
Date of Argument: 27.09.2019.

Date of Judgment: 01.10.2019.

-JUDGMENT-
1. The brief facts of the prosecution case as unfurled from the
ejahar dated 08-01-2017 is that on 09-11-2016 the accused Sanowar
Rahman committed rape upon the minor daughter of the informant as a
result of which she became pregnant and subsequently the accused
threatened the victim and 03-01-2017 the said accused administered a
tablet to the victim and terminated her pregnancy and hence the case

was filed.

2. On receipt of the information to that effect, Matia PS Case No.
07/17 was registered u/s 417/376/313/506 of IPC read with Section 4
of the POCSO Act and after completion of the investigation, a charge-

sheet was submitted against the above named accused person u/s
Special (POCSO) Case No. 15 of 17 Page |2o0f8

417/313/506 of IPC read with section 4/8 of the POCSO Act sending
him up for the purpose of trial.

3. Thereafter, on appearance of the said accused person before this
Special Court, the relevant copies were furnished to him and thereafter,
vide order dated 03.02.2018, charges u/s 417/313/506 of the IPC and
section 4/8 of the POCSO Act were framed against the said accused
and the contents of the said charges was read over and explained to
him to which he pleaded not guilty and accordingly, the trial of this case

commenced.

4. In the course of trial, 7(seven) witnesses were examined in
support of the prosecution case which included the informant, the
victim, the Medical Officer and the Investigating Officer of this case and
after the prosecution evidence concluded, the examination of the
accused u/s 313 of the Cr.P.C was conducted and his statements were
recorded during which he declined to adduce any evidence in his

defence.

5. Thereafter, the arguments of the respective learned counsels of
both the sides were heard and the entire evidence in the case record

was also perused.
6. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

(a) Whether on or about the 09-11-16 at about 3 to 4 pm the
accused Md. Sanowar Rahman cheated the daughter of the
complainant by having sexual intercourse with her with a

promise to marry her, as alleged ?

(b) Whether on or about the 03-01-17 at about 6 pm the
accused Md. Sanowar Rahman voluntarily caused the victim

Nurjahan Begum, then being with a child, to miscarry without
Special (POCSO) Case No. 15 of 17 Page |30f8

her consent, such miscarriage not being caused in good faith for

the purpose of saving her life, as alleged ?

(c) Whether on or about the same date, place and time the
accused committed criminal intimidation upon the daughter of

the informant, as alleged?

(d) Whether on or about the 09-11-16 at about 3 to 4 pm the
accused Md. Sanowar Rahman committed penetrative sexual

assault upon the daughter of the complainant, as alleged ?

(e) Whether on or about the 09-11-16 at about 3 to 4 pm the
accused Md. Sanowar Rahman committed sexual assault upon

the daughter of the complainant, as alleged ?
DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS:

Fou The PW-1 was the informant of this case who had filed the
ejahar vide Ext.-1 and from his testimony it is found that the victim of
this case is his daughter and that the accused and his daughter were
having a love affair and sexual relationship which was not appreciated
by the PW-1 for which he filed this case. His testimony also shows that
now they are living peacefully as husband and wife. Further, the PW-1

also stated that he do not wish to proceed with this case.

8. The PW-2, was the victim of this case, who stated in her
examination-in-chief that she was having a love affair with the accused
and accordingly, she proposed for a marriage but the accused was
reluctant initially for which her father filed the case but subsequently
they got married and now they have been living peacefully as husband
and wife and she also stated that she is now pregnant. During her
cross-examination she stated that this case was filed by her father out
of misunderstanding and that she gave her statement before the

magistrate vide Ext-2 on the directions of her father.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 15 of 17 Page |4of8

9. The PW-3 was Jayada Khatun, who is the wife of the informant
and mother of the victim and from her testimony it is found that her
daughter had a love affair with the accused and when her husband
(PW-1) came to know about it he filed this case against the accused as
the accused refused to marry her daughter (victim of this case) at that
time. She also stated in her examination-in-chief before the court that
the accused is now married to her daughter and living peacefully as

husband and wife.

10. The PW-4 who was a relative of the informant and the PW-5
who was the sister of the victim failed to state anything incriminating
against the accused person and their testimony corroborated with that
of the mother of the victim (PW-3). Thus, the testimony of these
witnesses could not help the prosecution case to any extent so far as
the role of the accused person was concerned with respect to the

charges that were framed against the accused.

11. The PW-6 was the Medical Officer who examined the victim on
09.01.2017 at Goalpara Civil Hospital and found the age of the victim to
be above 18 years and below 20 years. Her medical report was brought
on record as the Ext.-3 and from the Ext.-3; it is found that the
pregnancy test was negative and there were no injuries upon the

victim.

12. The PW-7 was the police officer who took up the investigation of
this case and finally submitted the charge-sheet against the accused
person vide Ext.-7 and from his testimony it is found that during
investigation he had prepared the sketch map vide Ext-4, seized a birth
certificate of the victim vide Ext-5, seized a file of tablet namely
Gestapro vide Ext.-6. etc.

13. No other witnesses were examined by the prosecution in support

of the case and during the arguments, the learned Special Public
Special (POCSO) Case No. 15 of 17 Page |5of8

Prosecutor submitted that necessary orders may be passed on the basis
of the evidence on record and in accordance with law. On the other
hand, the learned counsel of the accused submitted that the
prosecution case is clouded with grave doubts as the witnesses did not
support the prosecution story to any extent and moreover, the delay in
filing the case without proper explanation has also created suspicion in
the prosecution case and further, there is also lack of credible evidence

by the prosecution for which the accused deserves to be acquitted.

14. Ona careful scrutiny of the entire materials available in the case
record, it is found that though the informant failed to support the
prosecution story as reflected in the Ext-1 and moreover, the victim
(PW-2) failed to state anything incriminating against the accused during
her deposition in the court. The other PW’s(i.e. PW- 3, 4 and 5) also
failed to state anything against the accused and the PW-6, the Medical
Officer found the age of the victim above 18 years. Further, the birth
certificate of the victim which was seized vide Ext-5 was not produced
before this court. On the other hand, during the deposition of the victim
she categorically stated that this case was filed by her father as the
accused refused to marry her initially. It may further be mentioned in
this context that in a case of sexual assault, the testimony of the
prosecutrix must be given prime consideration and the principle that
the prosecution is required to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt
and that the reliability of an witness depends on its credibility and
trustworthiness would be required to be applied in a case of sexual
assault also and taking into consideration all the above facts and
circumstances, I am of the opinion that the prosecution case suffers
from serious infirmities so far as the role of the accused person is
concerned in the alleged offences and from the entire evidence on
record as discussed above, it is apparent that there is a massive dent in

the prosecution case and moreover, the admitted relationship between
Special (POCSO) Case No. 15 of 17 Page |6o0f8

the parties has added more clouds to the shaky prosecution case and
therefore, taking into account all the above aspects, I am of the firm
opinion that the prosecution has failed to establish the charges against
the accused beyond reasonable doubt and that the ingredients of
section 417/ 313/ 506 of the IPC read with section 4/8 of the POCSO

Act are very much lacking in the instant case.

15. Accordingly, the accused person namely Sanowar Rahman is not
found guilty section 417/ 313/ 506 of the IPC read with section 4/8 of
the POCSO Act beyond reasonable doubt and as such he is acquitted of
the said charges and set at liberty forthwith. His bail bond shall
however remain in force for the next six months. The Judgment, as

mentioned above, is pronounced in the open Court.

16. The seized tablets shall be destroyed in due course of time and
in accordance with law and the seized birth certificate shall be returned

to the person from whom it was seized.

17. A copy of this judgment shall be forwarded to the learned
District Magistrate, Goalpara and the Superintendent of Police, Goalpara

for their information and necessary action.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 1* day of

October, 2019 at Goalpara, Assam.

(T. K. Bhattacharjee)
Special Judge, Goalpara.
Dictated & corrected by me:

Special Judge, Goalpara.

Continued to appendix..
Special (POCSO) Case No. 15 of 17

Appendix:
Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1:- Hazarat Billal,
PW2:- Nurjahan Begum,

PW3:- Jayada Khatun,
PW4:- Jarina Khatun,

PW5:- Nijara Begum,

PW6:- Dr. M. Lagachu(MO),
PW7:- Adam Ali Seikh(IO),

Court witnesses:-Nil.

Page |7of8

Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1: Ejahar,

Ext.2: Statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C.,
Ext.3: Medical Report,

Ext.4: Sketch map,
Ext.5: Birth certificate,
Ext.6: Gastapro tablet,
Ext.7: Charge-sheet.

Defence Witness: Nil.

Special Judge,
Goalpara.
