IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present:  ShriS. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,

 

Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 4 (DH)/ 2018.

U/S 4 of POCSO Act.
(G.R. Case No.1125/2017 (DMJ), Dhemaji P.S. Case No.466/2017 Under

Section 448/376 of IPC.)

The State of Assam 2
- Versus —

Shri Mini Das,

S/O Narayan Das,

R/O Kopohowa Gaon,

P.S. Dhemaji,

Dist.- Dhemaiji.

Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor

Shri N. Saikia, Advocate

Date of prosecution evidence

..Accused Person

For the State

For the Accused

: 01-09-2018
 

eam

Rnectal Judge,
Dhemail.

\b

 

Date of arguments : 01-09-2018

Date of Judgment : 15-09-2018.

JUDGMENT

i The prosecution case in brief is that on 30-11-2017
complainant- Smti Dharmeswari Das lodged an ejahar with Dhemaji Police
Station alleging interalia that on 11-11-2017 at about 3.30 AM at night she
and her husband found her daughter-Smti ‘X’ (name withheld) and accused-
Mini Das sleeping together on the bed of her daughter’s room. It is stated in
the ejahar that on the next day village people gathered and discussed about
the occurrence. Then the accused agreed to marry her daughter. Since that
day, the accused used to come from his house and stayed with her daughter
in their house. Further, it is alleged in the ejahar that the accused told them
that he will go to Kerela and will not come back home until he could deposit
Rs.1,00,000/- and he went away. Till then the accused did not visit their
house.

J; On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused-Mini Das u/s 448/376 of IPC R/W section 4 of the
POCSO Act.

a On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act and read-over and
explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The prosecution, in order to
prove its case, examined three witnesses. After closure of the prosecution
evidence statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea
 

is of total denial. However, the defence adduced no evidence in support of

his defence.

4. Point for determination :

 

(1) That you, on 11-11-2017 at about 3.30 AM at night at
Village-Kapahua under Dhemaji Police Station, committed penetrative
sexual assault on Smti Lalita Das, a minor girl aged about 17 years and

thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

a I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

ee ee eee eee

6. Ppwi Smti Lalita Das stated that complainant is her mother.
Accused is at present her husband. The incident took place about one year
back. She had love afire with the accused. Both of them had decided to
marry. Accordingly, her parents agreed and she started living with the
accused as husband and wife. But for some time accused was away from her
in Kerala in search of job and her parents were upset and her mother lodged
complaint against the accused. Now they are living together as husband and
wife. She gave statement before Magistrate on being tutored by her parents.

In cross- examination PW1 stated that as accused and she
herself are living together as husband and wife, she prayed before court to
acquit the accused so that they can live together peacefully. Her family has
also accepted accused as their son-in-law. They have no objection if the

accused is acquitted in this case.

i PW2 Smti Dharmeswari Das stated that she is the complainant.
Accused is at present her son-in-law. The incident took place about one year
back. Her daughter had love affairs with the accused. Both of them had
decided to marry. Accordingly they got married and they started living as
 

si"
Special Judge,
Ohemaji.

 

husband and wife. But for some time accused was away from her daughter

and had gone to Kerala in search of job and as the accused was not in
contact, she lodged complaint against the accused. Now they are living as

husband and wife.

In cross- examination PW2 stated that as accused and her
daughter are living together as husband and wife, she prayed before court to
acquit the accused so that they can live together peacefully. They have
accepted accused as son-in-law. They have no objection if the accused is
acquitted in this case.

8. PW3 Shri Paban Das stated that complainant is his wife.
Accused is at present his son-in-law. The incident took place about one year
back. His daughter had love afire with the accused. Both of them had decided
to marry. Accordingly they got married and started living as husband and
wife. But for some time accused was away from home and had gone to
Kerala in search of job and as the accused was not in contact, his wife lodged
complaint again- examination PW3 stated that as accused and her daughter
are living together as husband and wife, he prayed before court to acquit the
accused so that they can live together peacefully. They have accepted
accused as son-in-law. They have no objection if the accused gets acquittal
order in this case.

Appreciation of evidence :

9, From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that
in this case the victim and her-parents were examined as P.W-1, PW2 and
PW3 respectively. PW1 is the Victim Smti Lalita Das. PWs- 2 is the mother of
the victim (PW1) and PW3 is the father of the victim. In their evidence all the
three vital witnesses stated that the victim had love affairs with the accused.
Victim and the accused decided to marry. Accordingly, they married and

started living together as husband and wife. But for some time accused was
 

away from home in search of a job at Kerala for which the parents of the

victim upset and her mother (PW2) lodged complaint against the accused
with police. Now, both the accused and victim are living together peacefully
as husband and wife. In cross-examination, all the PWs. (P.Ws-1,2 and 3)
have stated that as the victim and accused are now living together as
husband and wife peacefully, they prayed before the Court to acquit the
accused from the charge leveled against him so that they can live a happy
and peaceful conjugal life. P.Ws-2 and 3 also stated in cross-examination that
they have accepted the accused as their son-in-law. Further, PWs-1,2 and 3
have stated that they have no objection if the case ended in acquittal.
Prosecution side declined to examine the remaining witnesses on the ground
that examination. of other witnesses will not improve the prosecution

+

case at all.

10. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offence. This is a case of no evidence. I find that the prosecution has
totally failed to prove the charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused.

11. In view of the above, I find the accused-Mini Das not guilty u/s
4 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charge leveled against
him. Set him at liberty forthwith.

12. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
13. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 15" day
of September/2018. :
wk
is (9!
. Das )

Gpacial JWage,
prentyii
