 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 11/2019.

U/S — 366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act

State
~ Versus -
Samsul Islam Hazarika@Nimon ___........... Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee, AJS,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance _and particulars :-

For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person :- Sri N.I. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.
Dates of recording evidence :- 14.08.2019.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC :- 17.08.2019.

Date of Argument :- 17.08.2019.
Date of Judgment :- 17.08.2019.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 11.12.2018 the

informant Abjal Hussain Barbhuiya lodged an ejahar with the O/c, Hailakandi
Police Station alleging that on 02.12.2018 at about 1.30 PM while his minor
sister i.e. the victim was going to attend private tuition at Boalipar, on the way,
the accused Samsul Islam Hazarika appeared and forcefully kidnapped the victim
in an Alto vehicle and in the said vehicle, the accused also committed rape on
her and took some obscene photographs of the victim making her nude.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as
Hailakandi Police Station Case No. 989/2018 under Sec. 366/376/511/34 of the
IPC and accordingly, police started investigation of the case.

COIS, csi iakioce P/2,
ecial (P se No. 11/2019.
Kans

3. During investigation, police visited the place of occurrence,
recorded statements of witnesses, got the victim medically examined and also
got her statement recorded by the Magistrate and after completion of
investigation having been found prima facie case laid the charge sheet against
the accused person Samsul Islam Hazarika @ Nimon under Sec. 366, IPC read
with Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act,2012.

4. On appearance of accused person, copies of relevant
materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to him.

5. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record, having found
sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed the
offence, the formal charges have been framed against the accused person
Samsul Islam Hazarika @ Nimon under Sec. 366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 4 of
the POCSO Act. The charges so framed were read over and explained to the
accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence,
the trial.

6. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined 2
number of PWs including the victim of the case. The accused person has been
examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has denied the allegations levelled

against him by the prosecution. The defence did not adduce any evidence.

7. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused person on 2.12.2018 at about 1.30
PM at Sayedbond Pt. I under Algapur PS induced the victim to go with him with
intent that she may be or knowing that she would be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse and thereby the accused has committed the offence punishable
under Sec. 366(A), IPC?

(ii) Whether the accused person after kidnapping the victim,
committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim and thereby the accused
COM. cesscvineh P/3.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 11/2019.
-3-

committed an offence punishable under Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act?

DISCUSSION, REASONS AND DECISION THEREOF :-
8. The PW. 1, the informant Abjal Hussain Barbhuiya, the

brother of the victim, has deposed that on 2.12.2018 at about 1.30 PM while his
sister was going to her private tuition from the house and after being reached at
Boalipar market, the accused person alongwith 2 other boys appeared there with
a vehicle and since his sister had earlier introduction with the accused, the
accused took her towards her private tuition centre and on the way, the accused
and his friends took photographs of his sister. The informant has further deposed
that when he heard that the accused person took photographs of his sister, he
filed the case vide Ext. 1 considering the future safety of his sister.

In cross examination, the informant has stated that he had

no conversation with his sister regarding the incident and he lodged the FIR after
hearing about the incident from his mother.
9. The PW. 2 is the victim and she has deposed that on the
relevant day while she was going towards her private tuition centre and after
being reached at Boalipar market, the accused and his 2 friends appeared there
with a vehicle and as the accused was well acquainted to her, she boarded the
vehicle and in the vehicle, the friends of the accused persons uttered some un-
parliamentary words towards her, to which she was astonished and on returning
home, she reported the incident to her mother and thereafter, her brother filed
the case. It is also deposed by the victim that police got her medically examined
and her statement was recorded by the Magistrate vide Ext. 2, wherein Ext. 2(1)
is her signature.

During cross examination, the victim has stated that she
made her statement before the Magistrate on being tutored and the accused
person did not commit any bad with her and as such, she has got no allegation

against the accused.

10. In the instant case, the prime witness is the victim (PW.2)
Special (POCSO) Case No. 11/2019.
-5-

Appendix :-
Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, Abjal Hussain Barbhuiya &
PW. 2, The victim.
Documentary evidences :-
Ext. 1- FIR &

Ext. 2- Statement of the victim under Sec. 164, CrPC.

Defence did not adduce any evidence. \)

wr:

>

Special judge, Hailakandi,
sPpECIAD

HATLAKANDS
