 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 46 (T) of 2017

U/s 4 of the POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM —___haacaeesacseeceeeeeesenees Complainant.
-Versus -

Sri Bikash Choudhury,

S/o- Sri Nabin Choudhury

R/o- Balugada, Sabjibari

P.S- Tinsukia

District- Tinsukia, ASSAM ok. eeeeeeeeeee tees eee Accused.

Appearance:

Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor a... eee For the State
S. Chutia,
Advocate —___hinecacecuceeueueaees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 12/06/2019

Date of Judgment: 12/06/2019

U D GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. On the day of occurrence, the 11 years old daughter of
the informant was going to attend her tuition classes at about
7 am. On the road, the girl was accosted by Bikash Choudhury
and Champak Choudhury. They caught hold of the girl by her
hands and asked her to give message to her mother that she
should withdraw the case, that her mother had filed against
them. Thereafter, Champak Choudhury gagged the mouth of
the girl with his hands. Bikash Choudhury pushed down her
pant and pushed his finger into her vagina. At that moment,
one lady was passing by the road and on seeing the
occurrence, she shouted at the boys and then they fled away.
The girl immediately returned home and informed her mother
about the occurrence. Her mother immediately took her to the
Police Station and filed a case. Police sent the girl to a Doctor
for medical examine. The girl was also produced before a
Magistrate for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC.
POINT FOR DETERMINATION

2. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused Bikash Choudhury had committed

penetrative sexual assault upon the victim?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

3. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as six witnesses,
including the victim girl. The defence plea is total denial. |
have carefully gone through the prosecution evidences. The
accused pleaded that prior to this occurrence, the mother of
the victim had lodged another false criminal case against him.

4. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up
the evidence of the victim. She has supported the prosecution
case, as narrated herein before.

5. The mother of the victim girl has stated that the
accused wanted her to give message to her to withdraw the
case, that was filed 15 days prior to the occurrence. The
informant mother is not an eye witness and her evidence is

based on whatever she had heard from her daughter.

6. Apart from the mother and the daughter duo, the other
witnesses of this case have deposed irrelevant evidence.
Neither they have seen the occurrence, nor they are in any
manner material to this case. Both the victim and her mother
have been extensively cross examined by the defence
counsel. Before the defence counsel, the victim girl has stated
that on the day of occurrence, she had gone to the house of
her teacher Punam Giri to take tuition classes. The victim has
admitted before police that another incident dated 28/09/2014
involving her mother and the accused took place and for that
matter, her mother had lodged an ejahar before police. The
victim has stated that on 28/09/2014,while she was in her
residence in the morning hours, her mother had come home

with an injury on her hands.

ry The mother of the victim has stated that with the
present case, she has filed three cases against the accused.
She has admitted that regarding the incident involving her
daughter and the accused, she did not file any ejahar in the
Police Station, rather she straightway went to the office of the
Superintendent of Police and filed a complaint before him. The
mother of the victim has stated that the complaint, which she
had filed before the Superintendent of Police, was drafted by a
Advocate. The mother of the victim girl has denied the fact
that she had stated before police that she never informed her
husband about the occurrence of this case. The mother of the
victim has also stated that Punam Giri was the tuition teacher
of her daughter.

8. On scrupulous perusal of the prosecution evidences, |
find that only the mother and her daughter have supported
the prosecution case. The prosecution never examined Punam
Giri to confirm that on the day of occurrence, the victim had
missed tuition classes. It is an admitted fact that the mother of
the victim and the accused have been maintaining animolish
against each other. It is also an admitted fact that on the day
of occurrence, the mother of the victim never filed any ejahar
before police, rather she had gone to the office of the
Superintendent of Police to file a complaint. This fact clearly
shows that the mother of the victim had the suspicion that
police might not take cognizance of the matter. She had gone
to an Advocate and had the complaint drafted and later on,
she filed the same before the Superintendent of Police. The
mother of the victim has stated that police never arrested the
accused and the case, which she filed alleging that the
accused had caused a cut injury to her.

9. Under the aforesaid circumstances, it is clear on the
face of the record that the mother of the victim has been
maintaining enmity with the accused. Under the aforesaid
premised reasons, the uncorroborated testimonies of the
victim and that of her mother failed to inspire confidence. |,
therefore, hold that the prosecution has failed to prove the
offence against the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

10. In the result, the accused Bikash Choudhury is found
not guilty and accordingly the accused is acquitted from this

Case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
12th day of June, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1

2. PW2

3. PW3

4. PW4

5. PW5

6. PW6

Sri Pradeep Kumar Sah,
Smti Rujena Hussain
Smti Sangeeta Tiwari
Smti Nikita Tiwari

Sri Sankar Pandey

Sri Nitai Das

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1-

DEFENCE WITNESS

None. ~

Ejahar

Special Judge

Tinsukia
