IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: MORIGAON, ASSAM

Present: Sti S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions Judge cum Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam.

POCSO Case No. 73/2019
U/S 419 IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act

State of Assam

-VS-

Md. Rakibul Khan @ Rekib
S/o Md. Musharaf Hussain
R/o Village- Nagabandha
P.S. — Laharighat

District Morigaon, Assam. si... Accused
Date of Charge : 05.12.2019.
Date of Evidence : 20.01.2020.
Date of Argument : 20.01.2020.
Date of Judgment : 20.01.2020.
Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State : Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. Special Public Prosecutor.

Advocate for the Accused : Mr. P. R. Bora, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 28.06.2018, Smti. Junu Medhi
lodged a complainant before the Superintendent of Police, Morigaon alleging
inter-alia that the accused Md. Rekib by introducing himself as Kukil Hazarika
developed love affairs with the victim ‘X’ (name withheld) aged 16 years, minor
daughter of the informant and used to committed sexual assault upon her. It is
also alleged that on 24.06.2018, the accused called the victim to the Morigaon
town and took her towards Morigaon weekly market in a four wheeler vehicle
and committed sexual assault and also attempted to commit sexual intercourse

with her. Thereafter, the accused took the victim towards the Canara Bank,

Pocso Case No. 73/2019 Page 1 of 7
Morigaon Branch and again committed sexual assault upon her and then sent
her back in a tempo. The entire incident came to light when the victim

explained about the same to her sister-in-law and uncle.

2. On receipt of the complaint, same was to the Officer-in-Charge,
Morigaon Police Station on 29.06.2018, with a direction to register a case as per
law and-— accordingly, Morigaon PS Case No. 298/2018 u/s
417/419/376(2)(i)/511 IPC r/w Section 7/8 of the POCSO Act, 2012 was
registered and investigated into. During investigation, the victim was medically
examined and statement of the victim was recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C and on
completion of investigation, the Investigating Officer (i/o) submitted charge
sheet against the accused Md. Rakibul Khan for trial u/s 419/ 376 IPC r/w
Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

3. It may be mentioned herein that during investigation, the accused
was granted interim bail on 06.07.2018, which was subsequently made absolute
vide order dated 03.08.2018.

4. On 05.07.2019, charge sheet was laid before this Court and vide
order dated 05.12.2019, charges u/s 419 IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
2012 were framed and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty.
It may be mentioned here that on 13.08.2019, the accused was allowed to go

on regular bail.

5. During trial, prosecution side has examined two witnesses
including the informant and the victim only. Considering the nature of the
evidence, examination of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C is dispenses with and I
proposed to dispose the case by using powers u/s 232 Cr.P.C. without calling

the accused to enter into defence.

6. I have heard argument of Id. Special P.P. Mr. A. Kalam and Mr. P.
R. Bora, learned defence Counsel and gone through the evidence on record. I

have considered the submission of both the sides.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE:

Pocso Case No. 73/2019 Page 2 of 7
7. (D) Whether the accused Md. Rakibul Khan has misrepresented
himself as Kukil Hazarika developed love affairs with the victim 'X’?

(I) Whether on 24.06.2018, the victim X' was subjected to
penetrative sexual assault/rape by the accused?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

8. PW-1, Junu Medhi, the mother of the victim ‘X’ as well as the
informant of the case deposed in her evidence that, at the time of incident, her
daughter, the victim was aged about 16 years and a student of Class-X. On
24.06.2018, while she was at Dhing, the victim rang her and informed that she
will go to the house of her friend. After this, she left the house without
informing her daughter-in-law. On her return from Dhing, she came to know
from the victim ‘X’ that on 24.06.2018, she went to Morigaon with one boy
namely, Rekib and after having tea etc. she returned. Subsequently, after 4 - 5
days, at the instigation of one Lakhi Bora, friend of her husband, she had to
lodge the FIR alleging kidnap and rape of her daughter by the accused. In
cross-examination, she admitted that she is an illiterate and cannot say about
the contents of the FIR which was written under the dictation of Lakhi Bora and
she simply put her thumb impression on the same on the direction of the said
Lakhi Bora. The content of the FIR was not read over to her. She further stated
that she filed another FIR against Lakhi Bora for committing rape on her
daughter victim ‘xX’. After filing the case, she came to know that accused Rekib
was innocent and by taking benefit of her illiteracy, Lakhi Bora has concocted
the instant case with false allegations.

9. PW-2, the victim deposed in her evidence that her date of birth is
21.05.2002. Accused Rekib Khan @ Rakibul was known to her since last 3
years. Pursuant to her love affairs with the accused Rekib, on 24.06.2018, she
came to Morigaon with him and after staying for about 2-3 hours and having
tea etc. she returned home. On that day, her mother was at Dhing. On that
day, at evening hours, her relative uncle Lakhi Bora came to their house and
inquired about her going out of home. After 2 - 3 days of this, at the instigation
of said Lakhi Bora, her mother had to file the FIR against the accused Rekib.

Pocso Case No. 73/2019 Page 3 of 7
Police interrogated her, took her for medical examination and also brought to
the Court for recording her statement. Ext. 1 is her statement given before the
Court and Ext. 1(i) to 1(iii) are her signatures thereon. In cross-examination,
she admitted that she had love affairs with the accused and she used to visit
with him. The Student Union workers along with Lakhi Bora scolded her and
they tutored her for giving statement in the Court on that day. She further
admitted that accused Rekib did not misbehave her on 24.06.2018, or any time
prior to that. The accused never made any physical contact with her either
prior to this case or after filing of the case. She stated that the FIR was lodged
with false allegations against the accused and he is innocent. She works in the
shop of Lakhi Bora and under his influence, her mother lodged this case.

10. So far age of the victim is concerned, the victim and the informant
claimed that at the time of incident, the victim was aged about 16 years. This

fact remained unrebutted during cross-examination by defence.

11. From the evidence of the PW-2 the victim, it appears that she
deposed nothing against the accused involving him with the alleged offence of
false representation by the accused. The victim in her evidence-in-chief clearly
stated that pursuant to her love affairs with the accused, on 24.06.2018, she
came to Morigaon with him and after staying for about 2-3 hours and having
tea etc. she returned home. In her cross examination, the victim admitted that
she had love affairs with the accused and she used to visit him. The Student
Union Workers along with Lakhi Bora scolded her and they tutored her for
giving statement in the Court on that day. This fact was confirmed by PW 1, the

mother of the victim.

12. Under these facts and circumstances, the point to be determined
is whether taking a minor girl without consent of her parents can be an offence

by the accused. Let me look at the law in this aspect.

13. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the reported case of S.
Varadarajan Vs. State of Madras [AIR 1965 SC 942] held as follows:-

Pocso Case No. 73/2019 Page 4 of 7
11. It must. however, be borne in mind that there is a distinction
between "taking: and allowing a minor to accompany a person. The two
expressions are not synonymous though we would like to guard
ourselves from laying down that in no conceivable circumstance can the
two be regarded as meaning the same thing for the purposes of
s. 361 of the Indian Penal Code. We would limit ourselves to a case like
the present where the minor alleged to have been taken by the accused
person left her father's protection knowing and having capacity to know
the full import of what she was doing voluntarily joins the accused
person. In such a case we do not think that the accused can be said to
have taken her away from the keeping of her lawful guardian. Something
more has to be shown in a case of this kind and that is some kind of
inducement held out by the accused person or an active participation by
him in the formation of the intention of the minor to leave the house of
the guardian.

12. It would, however, be sufficient if the prosecution establishes that
though immediately prior to the minor leaving the father's protection no
active part was played by the accused, he had at some earlier stage
solicited or persuaded the minor to do so. In our opinion if evidence to
establish one of those things is lacking it would not be legitimate to infer
that the accused is guilty of taking the minor out of the keeping of the
lawful guardian merely because after she has actually left her guardian's
house or a house where her guardian had kept her, joined the accused
and the accused helped her in her design not to return to her guardian's
house by taking her along with him from place to place. No doubt, the
part played by the accused could be regarded as facilitating the
fulfillment of the intention of the girl. That part, in our opinion, falls short
of an inducement to the minor to slip out of the keeping of her lawful
guardian and is, therefore, not tantamount to "taking".

14. Hon'ble Himachal Pradesh High Court in the reported case of
Khyali Ram Vs. State of Himachal Pradesh [1979 Cri. L. ] 620], held as follows:-

"In order to attract the offence of kidnapping under Section 361, L.P.C,
something more had to be proved than mere joining of the accused with
the girl. An active participation by the accused in the formation of the
intention of the girl either immediately prior or sometime before she left
her father's house, was required to be established. In my opinion, the
ratio of the Supreme Court decision in S. Varadarajan v. State of Madras
MANUW/SC/ 0081/1964 : 1965 CriLJ 33 Is attracted in the instant case. It
will be difficult to say that the accused had taken or enticed Ram Pyari
and as such the offence under Section 361 was not formulated.”

15. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the reported case Shyam and
another vs. State of Maharashtra [AIR 1995 SC 2169] has held that .....

Pocso Case No. 73/2019 Page 5 of 7
10. “She was a fully grown up gitl may be one who had yet not
touched 18 years of age, but, still she was in the age of discretion,
sensible and aware of the intention of the accused Shyam, That he was
taking her away for a purpose. It was not unknown to her with whom
she was going in view of his earlier proposal. It was expected of her then
to jump down from the bicycle, or put up a struggle and, in any case,
raise an alarm to protect herself. No such steps were taken by her. It
seems she was a willing party to go with Shyam the appellant on her
own and in that sense there was no "taking" out of the guardianship of
her mother.”

16. Considering the above ratios in mind, if we turned to case in
hand, as discussed earlier, it appears that there is nothing in the evidence of
PW-1 and PW-2 against the accused for the alleged offence of making false
representation causing damage or harm to her mind and reputation. In the

instant case, ingredient of offence u/s 419 IPC is totally missing.

17. On the next charge regarding commission of penetrative sexual
assault, from the evidence of PW-2, the victim, it reveals that on the alleged
date of occurrence she was minor in age and while giving evidence in the court
she has clearly stated that accused Rekib did not misbehave her on 24.06.2018
or any time prior to that. The accused never made any physical contact with
her either prior to this case or after filing of the case. Mere accompanying the
victim for visiting to Morigaon without consent of the lawful custodian cannot
be an offence of kidnap. There is nothing to show any sort of inducement by

the accused.

18. From the above evidence as discussed, it is clear that there was
no material whatsoever regarding false representation or of penetrative sexual

assault by the accused upon the victim ‘Xx’.

19. Considering above discussion, I am of the opinion that prosecution
has failed to prove the ingredients of charge U/S 419 IPC and Section 4 of
POCSO Act against the accused Md. Rakibul Khan @ Rekib. As such, accused
Md. Rakibul Khan @ Rekib is acquitted from the charges U/S 419 IPC and
Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 and set at liberty forthwith.

Pocso Case No. 73/2019 Page 6 of 7
20. The bail bond executed by accused and his surety are extended

for another six months from today u/s 437-A Cr.P.C.

21. Considering the nature of the case, the matter is not referred to

DLSA for granting compensation u/s 357-A Cr.P.C.

22. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Morigaon u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

23. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 20" day of
January, 2020 at Morigaon.

Special Judge,
Morigaon

Pocso Case No. 73/2019 Page 7 of 7
