IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE :: :: MORIGAON, ASSAM

Present: Shri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions Judge cum Special Judge
Morigaon, Assam.

Sessions Spl. Case No. 26/2014
U/S 354(A) IPC r/w Section 12 of the POCSO Act

State of Assam

-VS-

Md. Mohibul Hoque
S/o Late Abdul Sattar
R/o Village- Bogoribari,
P.S. — Mikirbheta

ASSAM, ae eeeete erent Accused
Date of Charge : 16.03.2018.
Date of Evidence : 24.05.2018, 12.03.2019, 25.07.2019,
09.09.2019, 09.10.2019, 29.11.2019.
Date of S/D : 27.01.2020
Date of Argument : 05.02.2020
Date of Judgment : 18.02.2020
Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State :- Mr. A. Kalam, Spl. PP, Morigaon.

Advocate for the Accused :- Mr. N. U. Anmed, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 16.09.2013, Md. Azizul Hoque
lodged an FIR with Morigaon Police Station alleging inter-alia that on 31.08.
2013, at about 3:00 PM, her minor daughter/victim ‘A’ (name withheld) aged
about 12 years and student of Class VI, went to the house of the accused, Md.
Mohibul Hoque to take tuition and during said tuition class, the accused
touched her breast and outraged her modesty. On knowing about this incident

from the victim, he informed the matter to local villagers and also to the

Sessions Spl. Case No. 26/2014 Page 1 of 9
Teachers Association and in spite of waiting for few days, on failure to get

amicable settlement he lodged the FIR with delay.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Mikirbheta PS Case No. 204/2013 u/s
354(A) IPC r/w Section 12 of the POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and
investigated into. During investigation, the victim was medically examined and
statement of the victim was recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on completion of
investigation, the Investigating Officer (I/O) submitted charge sheet against the
accused, Md. Mohibul Hoque for trial u/s 354(A) IPC r/w Section 12 of the
POCSO Act, 2012 showing the accused as absconder.

3. It may be mentioned herein that on 03.03.2018 the accused Md.
Mohibul Hoque was arrested and remanded to judicial custody. Subsequently,

vide order dated 07.03.2018, the accused was allowed to go on bail.

4. On completion of investigation, charge sheet was laid before this
Court. After compelling attendance of accused, vide order dated 16.03.2018,
charges u/s 354(A) IPC r/w Section 12 of the POCSO Act, 2012 were framed
and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty. During trial,
prosecution has examined as many as seven witnesses including the Medical

officer and the Investigating Officer.

5. Upon completion of prosecution evidence, the accused was
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. The accused declined to adduce defence witness
when he was called upon to do so. The defence case is of total denial and false

implications.

6. I have gone through the record. Heard Mr. A. Kalam, learned
special public prosecutor appearing for the State and Mr. N. U. Ahmed, learned

defence counsel for the accused person.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE:
7. (1) What was the age of the victim on 31.08.2013 i.e. the date of the
alleged occurrence?

(i) Whether on 31.08.2013 the victin was subjected to sexual

assault/hurrasment by the accused?
Sessions Spl. Case No. 26/2014 Page 2 of 9
(ili) Whether on 31.08.2013 the accused committed sexual harassment
and thereby made himself liable for punishment under Section 354(A)
LP.C.?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF
8. PW-1, Md. Azizul Hoque, the informant of this case and father of the
victim, in his evidence deposed that at the time of occurrence of this case, his
daughter was 12 years old. She was studying in Class- VI. On 31.08.2013 at
about 3 PM, his daughter went to the house of accused for taking tuition and
after coming back from tuition, he found her crying. On asking, she told him
that when she was taking tuition, the accused closed the door of the room,
wanted to see her breast and also pressed her breast. On this, she started
crying out of fear. The accused also asked her not to tell the incident to her
parents and after taking promise by touching her books and assurance that she
will come to tuition again, accused released her by kissing on her cheek. From
the next day of occurrence, his daughter stopped going to tuition. After coming
to know about the incident, he informed their villagers and Teacher’s
Association about the incident. A village meeting was also held in this regard
but he did not get any proper response. Then, he lodged the case. Due to
village meeting, a little delay occurred in lodging the case. Ext. 1 is his ejahar.
Ext. 1(1) is his signature. In cross-examination, PW- 1 stated that he did not
know as to whether the accused had any love affair with his daughter. His wife
had asked him regarding the marriage of his daughter with the accused, but he
had refused. The accused had a quarrel with his daughter, but he does not
know as to whether the said quarrel was due to reason of the accused wanting
to marry other girl. His daughter, used to attend tuition in a group of seven
students. The accused used to take tuitions of other group also. He had lodged
the instant case about 16 days after the incident. He had given a village
meeting with regard to the incident, but he does not get adequate response
from such meeting. In the said meeting, he had proposed for marriage of his

daughter with the accused. He denied the defence suggestions that he has

Sessions Spl. Case No. 26/2014 Page 3 of 9
deposed falsely about misbehave and molestation/sexual assault on his
daughter by the accused.

9. PW-2, the victim in her evidence deposed that at the time of
incident, she was a student of Class-VI and accused was her Science tutor. She
used to go to the house of accused for attending tuition class at about 3 PM.
On 31.08.2013 at about 3 PM, she went to the house of accused to attend the
tuition class. As soon as, she entered into his room to attend tuition class, the
accused closed the door of the room from inside and asked her to show her
chest by removing her clothes. Thereafter, the accused forcefully pressed her
chest. Thereafter, the accused made her to swear by touching her science
books not to tell the incident to her parents. After taking promise for coming to
tuition on the next day, and after kissing her, accused released her from his
house. She came back to her house by crying. She reported the incident to her
parents. Her father informed the incident to their villagers for justice. However,
when her father did not get any response from the villagers in this regard then
he lodged the case before Police Station. Police asked her about the incident.
She was also produced before the Magistrate for recording her statement she
stated the same incident earlier before the Magistrate. Ext. 2 is her said
statement. Ext. 2(1) is her signature. In cross-examination, the victim stated
that the accused had a love affair with another girl and he had promised to
marry her. She also had love affair with the accused and she wanted to get
married to him. Accused did not want to marry her. Over this matter, there was
quarrel between them and she had told her parents regarding this matter. Her
parents had wanted to give her marriage to the accused. Her father had lodged
the instant case, one or two days after the occurrence. The village bichar was
not held as some marriage related issues were proposed. When she used to go
for her tuitions, some three four students also used to go with her on the way.
They stay nearby and from time to time, they used to go for tuitions together.
The accused used to undertake tuitions with other students also. Students
attend tuition before and after their tuition. Students group wait for their turn in

the tuition. The room in which the accused used to take tuitions is located

Sessions Spl. Case No. 26/2014 Page 4 of 9
about 25 feet away from the house in which used to stay. People used to stay
in that house. The doors and windows of the tuition room are usually kept
open. On the day of the incident, his colleague student came at about 3.30
p.m. through their tuition class begins at 3 PM. She admitted that the accused
did not touch her body. She denied that her father lodged false case as the

accused did not marry her.

10. PW-3, Afikon Nessa in her evidence deposed that she had heard
that the accused had a love affair with the victim and wanted to bring the girl,
but the same was opposed by her family and that there was a quarrel over this.

The defence declined to cross-examine her.

11. PW-4, Samsun Nehar, mother of the victim in her evidence that
presently victim is aged about 16 years. The victim was taking tuitions with the
accused and she had told her that she developed a love affair with the accused
and he wanted to marry her, but they had not agreed to this. Over this issue,
there was quarrel between both the sides. Subsequently, on anger her husband
lodged the instant case against the accused. The defence declined to cross-

examine her.

12. PW-5, Abdul Manan Choudhury in his evidence deposed that about
four-five years back he heard that the accused had love affair with the victim,
but as her age was less, she was not given marriage to him. The defence

declined to cross-examine him.

13. PW-6, Dr. Rekha Bhuyan in her evidence deposed that on
17.09.2013, she examined the victim in connection with Mikirbheta PS case No.
204/2013, who came to her with history of sexual assault upon her by a
teacher. Upon examination, she opined that at the time of examination her age
was between 14 — 15 years. There was no sign of injury on her private parts.
She exhibited the Medical Report vide Ext. 3. In cross-examination, the Medical
Officer stated that with regard to the age indicated of 14 -15 years, there could

be a margin of 1 — 2 years on either side.

Sessions Spl. Case No. 26/2014 Page 5 of 9
14. PW-7, Shri Sanjib Saikia, the Investigating Officer in his evidence
deposed that during investigation of Mikibheta PS Case No. 204/2013, he went
to the place of occurrence, inspected the same, drew a sketch map (Ext. 4) and
examined witnesses. He forwarded the alleged victim for medical examination
and thereafter also forwarded her to the court for recording her statement
before the Magistrate. Upon completion of investigation, upon finding sufficient
materials, he submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 354(A) IPC r/w
Section 12 of the POCSO Act, indicating him as absconder, as he could not find
him during the investigation. Ext.5 is the charge-sheet and Ext. 5(1) is his
signature thereon. In his cross-examination, he stated that, there was no
explanation about the delay of 16 days in the lodging of the ejahar. He has not

examined any colleague student of the victim with regard to the incident.

15. Basing on the above evidence on record, let me decide the points
formulated.
16. Point No. I: So far, the age of the victim is concerned, PW-1,

father of the victim, in his evidence claims that at the time of the incident, his
daughter was aged about 12 years and a student of Class VI. The victim
deposing in the year 2018 claimed her age as 16 years. This is a incident of
2013. She also stated that she was a student of Class VI. PW-4, the mother of
the victim in her evidence stated that at the time of incident the victim was
aged about 13 years. PW-6, the Medical Officer basing of Radiological Report
has opined that the age of the victim was between 14 to 15 years. This part of
evidence regarding age of the victim remained unchallenged from defence. As
such, I hold that on the date of incident, the victim was above 12 years but

below 18 years.

17. Point No. II &III: So far the role of the accused is concerned,
from the evidence of the victim, it appears that on 31.08.2013 at 3 p.m. when
she entered into the tuition classroom, the accused closed the door from inside,
touched her breasts and thereafter kissed her and by taking a promise to come

back again, he let off her. On returning home she informed the matter to her

Sessions Spl. Case No. 26/2014 Page 6 of 9
parents. In her cross she stated that she had love affair with the accused and
wanted to marry him but the accused refused. On this matter there was a
quarrel between them. She further admitted that 3 - 4 other students also used
to go with her for taking tuition and the accused used to take tuition with other
students also. In her cross she specifically admitted on the alleged incident
accused did not touched her body. PW-4, the mother of the victim to whom the
victim has reported the matter of sexual assault by the accused, however did
not support the victim on the allegations of sexual assault and rather she simply
stated that the victim told her that she developed love affair with the accused
and wanted to marry him and over this matter there was a quarrel between
them. She specifically admitted that out of anger, her husband lodged this case.
She is totally silent regarding any incident of sexual assault reported to her by
her daughter. PW-1, the father of the victim though in his examination-in-chief
corroborated the evidence of the victim so far sexual assault on her is
concerned, but in his cross, he admitted that there was a quarrel between his
daughter and the accused and that his wife asked him regarding the marriage
of his daughter with the accused. He denied to have deposed falsely against the
accused. PW-3 and 5 have confirmed the love affair of the victim and the
accused. PW-6, though stated regarding recording the history of sexual assault
by the teacher from the victim but the victim contradicted herself on main
points. PW-7 is the Investigating Officer of this case who did routine
investigation. In his 313 Cr.P.C. examination, the accused denied the
allegations and took the stand of false implication for his denial to marry the
victim.

18. From the above discussions, it appears that the evidence of the
victim regarding sexual assault was not supported by her mother and the victim
also contradicted herself during cross-examination by admitting that accused
did not touch her body and thus her evidence is found not reliable and
trustworthy so far the allegations of sexual assault on her/molestation by the
accused. The other aspect to create doubt on the prosecution version is delay

of 15-16 days in filing the FIR.
Sessions Spl. Case No. 26/2014 Page 7 of 9
19. From the above discussion, I am of the opinion that in this case,
prosecution has failed to prove the primary facts and in view of this, provisions

of Section 29 of POCSO Act cannot be applied in this case.

20. Considering all above, I hold that prosecution has failed to prove
the ingredients of charges against the accused Md. Mohibul Hoque beyond
reasonable doubt and as such, he is acquitted from the charges u/s 354-A IPC
r/w Section 12 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and set at liberty forthwith.

21. Bail bond executed by the accused and his surety are extended for
another six months from today U/S 437-A Cr.P.C.

22. Considering the nature of the case, the matter is not referred to
DLSA for granting compensation U/S 357-A Cr.P.C.

23. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Morigaon U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

24. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 18" day of
February, 2020.

Special Judge,
Morigaon:

Sessions Spl. Case No. 26/2014 Page 8 of 9
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses :

P.W.1 - Md. Azizul Hoque.
P.W.2 - Victim ‘A’.
P.W.3 - Ms. Afikon Nessa.
P.W. 4 - Ms. Samsun Nehar.
P.W.5 - Sh. Abdul Manan Choudhury.
P.W. 6 - Dr. Rekha Bhuyan. (M/O)
P.W. 7 - Sh. Sanjib Saikia. (I/O)
2. Defence witnesses~ - None
3. Court witnesses - None

4. Exhibits by prosecution:

Exbt. 1 - Ejahar.

Exbt. 2 - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Exbt. 3 - Medical Report.

Exbt. 4 - Sketch Map.

Exbt. 5 - Charge sheet.

Digitally signed by
SUNIL SUNIL KUMAR
KUMAR PODDAR

Date: 2020.02.19

PODDAR 12:06:06 +05'30'
Special Judge,
Morigaon

Sessions Spl. Case No. 26/2014 Page 9 of 9
