IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

PRESENT : Sri D.J.Mahanta,
Special Judge,
Chirang, Kajalgaon.

 

SPECIAL (P) CASE NO. 4(BASU) OF 2016

Under Section 376(2)(i) I.P.C.
r/w. Section 4 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam

—Versus —

Bimal Saha. Accused Person

ADVOCATES WHO APPEARED IN THIS CASE

We
an For the State : Sri D.Das,
4 poor oo Learned Public Prosecutor.
\a yf
of 9 ad
cor
ont
, For the accused ; Mr. M.Kr. Wary,

Learned Advocate.

Evidence recorded on : 22.9.16, 7.3.18, 9.4.18,
23.4.18, 5.5.18.

Argument heard on : 28-06-2018

Judgment delivered on ; 03-07-2018
hr

JUDG M ENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that, on 30.5.2016, one Rinku
Das Purkayasta of Basugaon Vivekananda Pally W/No.4, lodged an FIR before
Basugaon Police Station stating inter alia that, accused Bimal Saha sexually
assaulted her minor daughter aged about seven years since few months and
after discussion with the village people, accused was handed over to police.
On the basis of said FIR, the Basugaon P.S. Case No.42/2016 U/S 376(2(i) of
I.P.C. r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act was registered against the accused person
and police started usual investigation thereon. Concerned I.0. investigated the
matter and recorded the statements of the witnesses. Statement of the victim
was also recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and police arrested the accused person.
After completion of the investigation, police submitted charge-sheet
U/S.376(2)(i) 1.P.C. r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act against the accused.

Zz Accused was produced before this Court. Copies of relevant
documents were furnished to the accused. After hearing both sides on point of
consideration of charge, my learned predecessor framed formal charge U/S
376(2)(i) I.P.C. r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act against accused. Charge was read
over and explained to the accused person to which he denied to plead guilty.

During trial, accused was released on bail.

In support of the case, prosecution brought the following

witnesses.
P.W.1 — Smti. Rinku Das Purkayasta (Informant)
P.W.2 — Miss. ‘x’ (Victim)
P.W.3 — Sri Sanjay Chanda
P.W.4 — Smti. Arati Chanda
P.W.5 — Sri Bapan Chanda

P.W.6 — S.I. Nabin Ch. Boro (1.0.)
3
P.W.7 — Dr. Meena Hazarika (M.O.)
P.W.8 — S.I. Abdul Barik Sk. (I.0.)

4. Prosecution exhibited the F.I.R. as Ext.1. Charge-sheet was
exhibited as Ext.2. Medical report was exhibited as Ext.3. Extract copy of
Basugaon P.S. G.D.Entry No.798 dated 30.5.2016 was exhibited as Ext.4.
Sketch map was exhibited as Ext.5.

5, Defence plea is of total denial. The statement of accused

person was recorded U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence adduced no evidence.

6. Heard argument from both sides. I have perused the entire
evidence on record. I have also considered the statement of the accused
person recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

7. POINTS FOR CONSIDERATION

i) For the offence u/s 376(2)(i) I.P.C. -

Whether for 5/6 months prior to the date of filing F.I.R. i.e.
30.5.16, accused committed rape on the minor daughter of the
informant aged about 7 years ?

For the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act -

TD) Whether during the said period, accused committed penetrative
sexual assault on the minor daughter (aged about 7 years) of
the informant ?

8. DRE THERE Ho

Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence
on record regarding above mentioned points simultaneously for the sake of
convenience. P.W.1 is the informant. She deposed that, victim was her
daughter and her age was about seven years. She heard from one Arati
Chanda that accused sexually assaulted her daughter. Then she informed the
matter to neighbours. The villagers advised her to lodge an FIR before police
4

station. Accordingly, she lodged F.I.R. During her cross examination, P.W.1
deposed that her daughter went to Darangiri. From Darangiri Arati Chanda
told her about the incident. Prior to that victim did not state anything to her
about the alleged sexual assault by the accused. She further deposed that she
did not lodge the F.I.R. according to her own conscience. She was pressurized
by the villagers. Due to ill advice by the villagers, she lodged the case. Her
daughter did not state prior to filing of the F.I.R. that, she was sexually
assaulted by the accused. So, from her evidence it is found that, she had no
direct knowledge. The victim also did not report her. Due to ill advice and
pressure from the nearby persons, without knowing the actual fact, she
lodged the F.I.R.

9. P.W.2 is the victim. She deposed that the accused was her
neighbor. Occurrence took place seven months ago. One day, she
accompanied the accused to his home. The accused did not do any type of
illicit act with her. After filing of the F.I.R. she made statement before the
Magistrate. She stated before the Magistrate that accused committed sexual
intercourse with her but according to P.W.2 this fact was tutored by the
villagers. Actually accused did not commit any bad act with her. This witness
also stated that according to ill advice and the pressure from the villagers she
was tutored to state what they stated, therefore, she had stated a false story

against the accused.

10. P.W.3 deposed that he heard about the incident. According to
4 P.W.3, there was good relationship between the family of the accused and
iyak informant. Accused often visited the house of the informant. Learned P.P.

pointed out that P.W.3 stated before police that his mother noticed that victim

3" 0%

y

oo? ee e was limping for which she asked about the reason of limping then victim
so replied that accused had committed sexual assault upon her for which she was
o

” limping. This fact was totally denied by the P.W.3.

Li. P.W.4 was declared as hostile by the prosecution. During cross
by learned P.P., P.W.4 deposed that as matter was compromised between the
parties outside the Court they could not say the actual fact. She denied the
suggestion given by learned P.P. that she had deposed before police that
5

accused continuously raped upon the victim by threatening her of ghost about
4/5 months for which she felt pain on her private part and later on she had
reported the matter to her son and the mother of the victim.

12. P.W.5 deposed that he heard that accused committed sexual

intercourse with the victim. He had no knowledge about the actual incident.
13. P.W.6 is the investigating officer who submitted charge-sheet.

14. P.W.7 is the Medical Officer. According to her opinion, age of
the victim was below ten years but above seven years. According to P.W.7, it
could not be ascertained whether victim was raped or not. No any injury mark

was found upon the private part and body of the victim.

15. P.W.8 is S.I. Abdul Barik Shiekh, who investigated the matter.
In his examination in chief he deposed that P.W.4 had stated before him that
accused Bimal Saha continuously committed rape upon victim by threatening
her of ghost about 4/5 months for which she felt pain on her private part and
later on she had reported the matter to her son and the mother of the victim.
This witness further confirmed that P.W.4 had stated before him that victim
was taken by her to Darangiri. She further stated before him that at night
victim awake up for natural call and she asked her to go outside, then she was
limping after noticing she asked her what was the reason of limping then she
replied that accued Bimal Saha committed rape upon her for which she could
not sit properly. P.W.8 drew sketch map, arrested the accused, recorded the
statement of witnesses and collected medical report,

16. After going through the entire evidence on record it is found
that victim herself denied the allegation of sexual intercourse committed by
accused, She deposed that due to pressure from the villagers she stated
before the Magistrate that she was raped by accused. The informant also
stated that prior to filing of the F.I.R. she was pressurized by villagers. It is
found that victim was taken to Darangiri by one Manju Chanda. After returning
from Darangiri she reported the matter to P.W.4 that accused committed
sexual intercourse with the victim (P.W.2). P.W.1 clearly stated that prior to

going to Darangiri, victim did not state that accused committed sexual
6

intercourse with her. She also did not notice that victim was limping. Manju
Chanda was not examined. She was not inserted as witness in charge-sheet.
Therefore, it is found that the allegation was after thought by some other
persons. The victim and informant clearly stated that as they were pressurized
by the villagers, they lodged the F.I.R. against the accused. As victim totally
denied the allegation, so, accused cannot be booked for the offences
mentioned above. Other witnesses heard the matter from the victim. The
material witness failed to support the case. Evidence of other witness is
hearsay and not admissible according to Evidence Act. It is not revealed from
the evidence of the victim that she had stated to P.W.4 that accused
committed sexual intercourse. So, points mentioned above are not proved

against the accused. Both points are remained as not proved.

ORDER

15. Prosecution failed to prove the case U/S 376(2) (i) I.P.C. r/w.
Section 4 of POCSO Act against accused Sri Bimal Saha. Accused is acquitted
and set at liberty. He is directed to furnish bail bond of Rs. 10,000/- with one
suitable surety of the like amount for a period of six months as required U/S

437(A) Cr.P.C. Till then he is allowed to remain on previous bail.

16. A copy of this Judgment and Order shall be given to the District

Magistrate for information.

Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 3% day

of July, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

Dictated & corrected

Ab A\é Mb yizer Mahet.

(D.J.Mahanta) (
Special Si special Ju Ug Qe4
Chiran Chita
chive Kegalgmpre hia lageoe
~~

APPEN IX

P cuti i

P.W.1 ~ Smti. Rinku Das Purkayasta (Informant)
P.W.2 — Miss. ‘X’ (Victim)

P.W.3 — Sri Sanjay Chanda

P.W.4 — Smti. Arati Chanda

P.W.5 — Sri Bapan Chanda

P.W.6 ~ S.I. Nabin Ch. Boro (I.0.)

P.W.7 ~ Dr. Meena Hazarika (M.O.)

P.W.8 — S.I. Abdul Barik Sk. (I.0.)

Defence Witness.

Nil
Prosecution Exhibits.
Ext.1 —F.I.R.

Ext.2 — Charge-sheet.

Ext.3 — Medical report.

Ext.4 ~ Extract copy of Basugaon P.S. G.D.Entry No.798 dated
30.5.2016.

Ext.5 — Sketch map.

Defence Exhibits
Nil
Bat?
special aye
Chiratig.Kajalaneror
