Page 1

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE ,DARRANG,MANGALDAI.

 

Spl(CCL) case No.8 of 2018
(U/S :376/496 of I.P.C. read with
Section 8 of POCSO Act).

State

-Versus-

Kabir Ali,

S/O Md. Chand Miya
Village- Jogipara
P.S.-Dhula
Dist-Darrang(Assam)

--Accused.

PRESENT: Sri P.K. Bora,A.J.S.,

Sessions Judge.

Darrang,Mangaldai.
APPERANCE:
Learned advocate for the State: Mr. Premeswar Sarma.
AND
Learned advocate for the accused :Mr. Ram Ch. Singh
Evidence recorded on : 19/06/19 & 22/07/19,

Argument heard on : 30/08/2019

Judgment delivered on : 30/08/2019.
Page 2

JUDGMENT:

. The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 09/09/2017 one Md. Kafiluddin
lodged an FIR before the O/C, Dhula Police Station stating that the accused
Kabir Ali had contacted physical relationship with his daughter Miss X
promising marriage to her and thus, his daughter became pregnant and the
accused Akbar Ali and Abdul Nur dragged the matter in the name of solving

the issue in a compromise. Therefore, lodging of the FIR was delayed.

. Having received the FIR, Police registered a case. In the course of
investigation, Police got the victim medically examined and also got the
statement of the victim recorded. Finally, Police submitted charge sheet
against the accused U/S 376/496 I.P.C. read with Section 8 of POCSO Act.

. On his appearance before this Court, the written charge U/S 376/496 I.P.C.
read with Section 8 of POCSO Act explained and read over to the accused to

which he pleaded not guilty.

. Points for determination:

(i)Whether on 09/05/2017 the accused committed sexual intercourse with
Miss X and thereby she became pregnant and thus committed an offence U/S
376 I.P.C. read with Section 8 of POCSO Act?

(ii)Whether on the same date, and time the accused fraudulently and
dishonestly made Miss X believed that the accused was his husband and thus
committed an offence U/S 496 I.P.C.?

REASON AND DECISIONS THEREON:
. In the course of trial, the prosecution examined Miss X as PW1 and his father
Kafiluddin as PW2. PW3 Sabjan Begum, mother of the victim, PW4 Abdul

Aziz.

. The evidence of PW1 (victim) Miss X is that on the day of the incident while

she was returning after appearing Matriculation examination persons namely
10.

Page 3

Akbar, Chand Miya, Nijan, Islamuddin, Fakrul, Nur and Kabir Ali followed her
and the accused Kabir Ali led her to the house of his Bar Baba(father's elder
brother). It was told to her that she would be married by Kabir Ali. Later she
gave birth to a male child and Kabir Ali is the father of that child. She
specifically stated that there was no marriage between Kabir and her. It has
also come in his evidence that there is also a case for maintenance filed by
her against Kabir Ali and she filed the case again about 4 months after the

incident.

PW2 Kafiluddin has stated that one day it was discovered by the villagers of
his village that his daughter Miss X was carrying pregnancy. When Miss X was
asked about it, she told that she was impregnated by Kabir Ali. In a village
sitting Kabir also confessed his guilt. Thereafter, he went to Karnataka to
earn his livelihood and she filed a case. Thereafter, Kabir Ali returned. A
village sitting was held and agreement was prepared. Following the said
agreement Kabir kept Miss X for two months, but during that period she was
physically assaulted demanding Rs.500000/-(Five lakh).

PW3 in his evidence states that Miss X and Kabir fell in love with each other.
Miss X became pregnant by Kabir. Later he learnt that marriage was held
between Miss X and Kabir and demanding dowry Kabir had driven out his

wife Miss X.

PW4 Abdul Aziz in his evidence states that there was a love affair between
Kabir and Miss X and Miss X got impregnated by the accused Kabir before her

marriage.

From the evidence and materials on record, it reveals that the case of the
prosecution is that there was a love affair between Kabirt Ali and PW1 Miss X
and she got pregnant by the accused. Later a valid marriage was solemnized
between Miss X and the accused. There is no evidence from the side of

prosecution that the accused Kabir had committed to marry Miss X within a
11.

Page 4

specific period. In this case doctor has not been examined. But as per the
medical examination report of the victim Miss X, doctor opined her to be the
age of 20 to 22 years. Though it is the submission from the side of the
prosecution that at the time of the incident the victim was a minor, but no
documentary evidence has been submitted in this regard. The available
document to show about the exact age of the victim is the medical report
prepared by the doctor in connection with this case. Therefore, it is proved
that at the time of the incident the victim was above 18 years. It has also not
come after examining the prosecution witnesses that the accused had given a
time limit to marry the victim girl. According to the victim till her examination
before this Court in this case no marriage was solemnized between the
accused and her. PW3 Sabjan Begum is the mother of the victim Miss X . She
stated before this Court that marriage between Miss X and the accused had
already been performed. Their marriage was solemnized in the Court and
thereafter, a social marriage was held. PW4 also’ states that Miss X was
married to Kabir. It has come in the evidence of victim Miss X that she
remained in the house of the accused for two months and thereafter, she
was driven out after beating her. It is surprising to note that how a girl was
allowed to live with a person for two months when there is no formal
marriage between them by her guardian. It is seen that there is a contention
against the accused that he had driven out the victim Miss X from his
residence. Though according to the informant the victim is shown as minor
being 17 years at the time of the incident, but the medical examination report
shows that at the time of her examination she was 20 to 22 years and at that
time she was carrying live fetus of 21 weeks 3 days. Therefore, it can safely
be presumed that this instant case is a counter of the grievance that the
victim was thrown out by the accused after beating her from his residence.
Therefore, the evidence available before this Court are not sufficient to hold

the accused person guilty against the alleged offence.

Hence, the accused Kabir Ali is acquitted for want of credible evidence and
set at liberty forthwith.
Page 5

12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court this 30" day of August,2019.

(P.K.Bora)
Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
Dictated and corrected by me.

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.

APPENDIX:
(A)Prosecution witnesses:
(i)PW1 Miss X

(ii)PW2 Kafiluddin

(iii)PW3 Sabjan Begum
(iv)PW4 Abdul Aziz

(B)Defense witness: Nil.

(C)Exhibit:

(i)Ext.1 statement of victim

Sessions Judge,
Darrang,Mangaldai.
Page 6
