Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC), SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s :

313 of CrP.C.

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Date of Final Judgment

Counsel of the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

45 of 2017
(Under Section 366A/342 of IPC, r/w
Section 4 of Protection of Children From
Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, Arising out
of GR Case No 3571 of 2016)

R. Baruah
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
State of Assam
-Vs-
Sri Utpal Borah,
S/o Sri Kunja Borah,
Resident of Kundarbari, Bora Chuburi,

PS — Tezpur,
Dist- Sonitpur, Assam

08-10-2017.

27-11-2017, 07-12-2017, 03-11-2017,

16-02-2018, 28-02-2018 & 01-8-2018.

13-07-2018.

21-08-2018.

07-09-2018.

10-09-2018.

Mr A Baruah & Mrs J Baruah,
Learned Addl. Public Prosecutors,
Tezpur.

Mrs D Singha & Mr R Baruah,
Learned Advocates.
Page |2

JUDGMENT

1. The case against accused Sri Utpal Borah is put for trial for the
allegation of charge under Section 366-A/342 of IPC, r/w Section 4 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act (hereinafter referred to as ‘POCSO Act’).

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 22-10-2016, informant Jatin
Saikia lodged an FIR before the Bebezia Police Out Post stating inter alia that the
previous night at around 8 PM, his daughter while going to her aunt’s house,
accused restrained her and kidnapped her threatening with life. In the morning at 6
AM, on searching the girl, he could come to know that the accused kidnapped his
daughter and kept her in a thatched house at Bihaguri Tumuki Bazar. The accused
confined the girl and subjected her to physical and mental torture and also
committed rape on her. In the morning, the accused and his parents mercilessly

assaulted the girl and driven her out. Hence, this prosecution case.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, I/C, Bebezia Police Out Post made a GD Entry
No 446 dated 22-10-2016, started investigation and forwarded the same to OC,
Tezpur Police Station for registering the case. Accordingly, O/C, Tezpur Police Station
registered the case vide Tezpur PS 1926/16/16 under Section 366-A/342/376/325/34
of IPC. Police, after completion of investigation, submitted charge sheet against the

accused Utpal Borah for trial.

4. On appearance of the accused and after hearing the learned Advocate
for both the sides, charge under Section 366-A/342 of the IPC, r/w Section 4 of
POCSO Act framed against the accused. The above charges were read over and

explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined as many as 6(six)
nos. of witnesses namely 1. Sri Jatin Saikia, 2. Sri Pallab Katoky, 3.Miss “X”(victim),
4. Dr Jharna Kakoti, 5. SI Lakhi Prasad Kachary (Investigating Officer) and 6. SI
Dipak Das (Investigating Officer).
Page |3

6. Accused was examined under section 313 Cr.P.C. The defence plea is
of total denial and the defence side has examined one witness namely, Kunja Borah
(DW1).

7. I have carefully gone through the record of the case and heard the

learned Counsel for both the sides.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

8. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) Whether on 21-10-2016 at about 8 PM at
Milonpur Saikia Chuburi, under Tezpur PS, the
accused induced the victim "X” a minor girl, to go
from her house to do any act or acts with the
intent that said victim may be (or knowing that it
Is likely that said victim will be) forced (or
seduced) to illicit intercourse with him ?

(2) Whether the accused on the same date,
whole night wrongfully confined the victim in an
abandoned house at Bihaguri Tumuki market?

(3) Whether the accused on the same date,
time and place (Tumuki market) committed
penetrative sexual assault on a child?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

9. Before appreciating the evidences adduced by the parties, I deem it fit

to reflect the summaries of evidence of the witnesses.

10. PW1 stated that victim is his daughter. The age of the victim is 16
(sixteen) years. He stated that in the evening on the day of occurrence, his daughter
(victim) went missing. He along with others searched for the girl, but could not trace
her out. On the next morning the victim return to the house and reported him that
accused had forcibly taken her away. Thereafter, he lodged the FIR. The victim
informed him that accused kept her in a house of the market situated near TMCH.

In cross-examination, PW1 stated that the victim is his only daughter. He has
Page |4

got a son who is elder to the victim. He stated that on the said day his wife was
arrested by police on allegation of cheating and she have to remain inside the jail for
1 Y% months. At that time, his daughter, her brother and grand-mother of the victim
were there. He has not informed the matter to the police in the night. When he
asked his mother-in-law, he was informed that the victim may in the house. He do
not know from where his daughter returned to his house. PW1 denied that he has
guessed the age of his daughter as 16 years. Police came to his house for arresting
his wife in the evening and many people gathered. PW1 said that the father of the
accused was also present at that time and he condemned the act of his wife and

hence, an altercation took place between his family and the father of the accused.

11. PW2 said that the victim is his niece in relation. The incident took
place about one year ago. At the relevant time, his niece (victim) was about 15 - 16
years old. During that time she was a student of High School. He said that on the
day of incident, at evening time, the father of the victim search the victim and told
him that his daughter has gone missing. So, he was searching his daughter. Then he
also searched the victim along with her father, but they could not find her. He stated
that in the next morning the victim girl return to the house and she told him that
accused had taken her. Then Jatin Saikia, the father of the victim filed the ejahar.
The victim girl told him that accused took her by a cycle towards Tumuki Bazar.

In cross-examination PW2 stated that he cannot recall the date and month of
the day of incident. He stated that in the evening time on the relevant day of
incident, Jatin Saikia told him that his daughter went missing from the house and
then he along with Jatin Saikia search the victim girl. He also stated that on the day
of missing of the victim girl in the evening, mother of the victim was taken by police
to the police station in connection with some illegal uploading in facebook. In the
said case, mother of the victim was in jail hazot for several days. Thereafter, they
came to know that victim was missing from their house. He further stated that he
does not have any personal knowledge how the victim went missing. On the next
day he had been to the house of victim at about 7 AM. During that time other family
members of the victim was present which includes the grandmother and father of
the victim. He heard that on the previous day, there was hulla in the house for arrest
of the mother of the victim. When the victim told him that accused took her towards
Tumuki during, at that time grandmother of the victim was also present. PW2 further

stated in his cross that he does not know actually, what is the age of the victim at
Page |5

the relevant time. PW2 denied that accused did not take the victim towards Tumuki.
PW2 further denied that as mother of the victim was arrested under some cyber
crime, so, she intentionally went somewhere hiding and he deposed falsely today for

the sake of his niece.

12, PW3 (or “X”), the victim stated that she knows accused Utpal Bora.
The incident took place on 21-10-2016 at about 8.00 PM. During that time she has
been to her aunt’s (Borma) house. Accused came in a cycle covering his face by a
black cloth in his face. He threatened her, gagged her mouth and took her in his
cycle. She said that while she tried to shout, he threatened her with life. The accused
took her towards weekly market near the TMCH, Tumuki. Accused took her to a
house made of bamboo and thatch. She stated that there he forcefully kissed her,
bite her breast, opening her clothes forcefully enters his private part in her private
part. He forcefully raped her. He has continuously threatened her with life. Therefore,
she does not made any attempt to jump out from the cycle. Whole night accused
kept her there. He did not allow her to go from the said room. She said that the
accused rang to his mother over phone and told his mother that he brought her
forcefully, and then his mother advised him to take her (victim) to their home in the
morning time. At about 3.00 AM in the morning the accused took her to his house
by his cycle. In his home, the accused suddenly entered into his home and in the
courtyard his mother assaulted her asking her why she forcibly came with his son.
She (PW3) further stated that the father of accused also assaulted her. The parents
of accused did not allow her to stay there. She repeatedly told them that accused
forcefully brought her and then the parents of the accused dragged her out by
beating her. At last she went to her home and narrated the whole story to her father.
Then her father filed an ejahar. Police took her for medical examination and also sent
her to the learned Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC.
Ext.2 is her statement and Ext.2 (1), 2(2) and 2(3) are her signatures. She also
stated that police collected a photocopy of her birth certificate at the time incident
and in the said certificate her date of birth is mentioned as 31-10-2002.

In her cross-examination, the victim stated inter alia that in the evening at
about 8 PM she went to the house of her aunt Champa Saikia, but, she could not
enter the house. On the way to her aunt’s house there is a Namghar (place of
worship) and there is no residence just nearer to the house of her aunt. It was dark.

The accused suddenly appeared before her covering his face with a black clothe
Page |6

hence, she could not notice him earlier. The accused seated her on the backside
carrier of his bicycle. The house of the accused is at distance of 2 KMs from her
house. Prior to that occurrence, the accused never visited to her house and there
were no people on the road. Initially, the accused gagged her mouth by his two
hands, threatened her with life and ask her to sit on the carrier of the bicycle. She
did not attempt to jump out of the carrier of the bicycle or neither raised alarm. She
came across by many vehicles and pedestrians on the road towards Tumuki market.
The thatched house is about 200/250 meters from the main road having one door
made of bamboo. During biting by the accused, she felt the hurt, but suffered no
bite injury. She was possessing a mobile phone, but, there was no balance. So, she
could not message anybody regarding her kidnapping. In early morning, she came to
the house of accused sitting on the carrier of the bicycle and during that time also,
she did not raise any alarm. There are many residences near the house of accused.
While the parents of the accused assaulted her she had not screamed. After she was
driven out of the house of the accused, she left for her house and while going to her
house, she met some persons on the road, but, she did not informed them regarding
the incident. At around 5.30 AM, she reached home.

PW3 denied that the accused came in a cycle covering his face by a black
cloth, threatened her and gagged her mouth and took her on his bicycle.

She denied that she stated before police that accused took her to a
thatched house forcibly kiss her, bite her breast and raped her after undressing her.

She denied that she stated before police that accused continuously
threatened her to kill her and did not allow her to go out of the room. The accused
informed his mother over phone regarding her kidnapping and his mother advised
him bring her (PW3) in the morning time.

PW3 denied that she did not stated before police that while returning
from tuition, she met the accused, got introduced each other, exchange cell phone
number and gradually develop a love affair between them.

PW3 denied that she did not state before police that accused asked her
over phone to come out and accordingly she came out informing her grand-mother
that she is going to her aunt’s house and meet the accused at the road and from
there they went to Tumuki Market in the bicycle of accused.

PW3 denied that she stated before police that there is no chance of
accused marrying her. During that time her grandmother and father were in the

house. Her mother was not in the house because police arrested her the previous
Page |7

evening.

PW3 said that she passed HSCL in the year 2016 and denied that she
stated to the magistrate that her age is 17 years. He was taken to the Magistrate for
recording her statement after 3 days.

PW3 denied that as per the dictation of her family members and police
she gave statement before the Magistrate in contradiction to the statement made
before police. Police did not seize her wearing apparels. Her mother was arrested in
connection with a cyber crime. PW3 denied that out grudge, her father lodged a

concocted case against the accused.

13. PW4 the Medical Officer stated that on 23-10-16, she was posted at as S.D.
M &H O at Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur. On that day, in reference to Bebezia Out
Post under Tezpur Police Station vide GD Entry No 446 dated 22-10-2016 received on
23-10-2016, she has examined one patient (victim) namely Miss “X”, 17 years
female, identified by WHG Aloka Deka. She has examined the victim on 23-10-16 at
12.35 PM in the emergency and labour room of the complex of the Kanaklata Civil
Hospital in presence of GNM Tribeni Bora vide hospital registration No 45576 and
found the following:

Menstrual History: Regular cycle. LMP- 01-10-2016.

Identification mark: Scar mark at the middle of forehead.

She eloped with Utpal Bora, 19 years male on 21-10-2016 and stayed with
him on 21-10-2016.

History of sexual exposure on same day i.e on 21-10-2016.

O/E: _

Height — 154cm,
weight — 40 kgs,
Teeth — 7/7-7/7.

At the time of examination she was well dressed, neat and tidy. Gait is
normal. Secondary sexual characters are developed. Vulva vagina healthy. No injury
in her body as well as on her private parts. Hymen absent.

Investigation and reports:
1. Vaginal smear — no sperm. Done at KCH Laboratory, Lab No 114/16 on 23-10-

2016.

2. Urine for HCG — Negative (done at Assam X-Ray Clinic and Laboratory on

24-10-2016. Patients ID No-31672. Report given by Dr D Mahanta,
Page |8

Pathologist).

3. X-ray of wrist joint, elbow joint and iliac crest for determination of age —Union
of the epiphysis of the lower ends of radius and ulna are not yet completed.
All epiphysis of the bones around the elbow joint have fused. Epiphysis of the
iliac crest has appeared but, not fused.

Impression: Age of the person under investigation appears to be
below 18 years. (done at Assam X-Ray Clinic and Laboratory on 24-10-2016.
Patients ID No-AXC-31. Report given by Dr PK Barman, Radiologist).

4. U/S for Pelvis: Uterus is anti-verted and is of normal in size and shape and
outlines measures 8.3 x 4.0 x 2.9 cm in length breath and thickness. Both
ovaries are normal in size, shape and echo-textures. Right ovary measures 23
x 20 x 17 mms and left ovary 18 x 16 x 16 mms.

Impression: Normal pelvic organs with no gravid uterus. Report given
by Dr PK Barman, Ultra-sonologist, Pt ID No AXC-31, done on 24-102016 at
Assam X-ray Clinic and Laboratory.

Opinion:

1. There is no injury on her body as well as on her private parts at the time of
examination.

2. There is no sign and symptoms of recent sexual intercourse at the time of
examination.

3. Age of the person under investigations appears to be below 18 years.

Enclosure:

1. Advice slip.

2. Police requisition,

3. Vaginal smear report,

4. Urine for HCG report,

5. X-ray report with plates,

6. U/S report with film.

Ext.3 is the medical report and Ext.3 (1) and 3(2) are her signatures. Ext.4 is

the advice slip of KCH, Tezpur. Ext.5 is the vaginal smear report of KCH, Tezpur and

Ext.5 (1) is the signature of Laboratory Technician of KCH, Tezpur which she know

on official communication. Ext.6 is the Urine for HCG report and Ext.6(1) is the
signature of Pathologist Dr D Mahanta. Ext.7 is the X-ray & U/S report with film and

plates of Assam X-ray Clinic and Laboratory and Ext. 7(1) is the signature of Dr. PK
Page |9

Barman, Radiologist.

In cross-examination, the PW4 stated that she cannot say if the development
may be changed to the person belongs to different climatic conditions. However,
molar teeth may be erupted for different person is different stage. She cannot say
whether the age of the victim person may be varied two years in either sides. She
denied that the age determined by ossification test is not surest test but, surer test.
The doctor also denied that that the victim was above 18 years at the time of

examination.

14. PW5 deposed that on 10-06-2017 he was posted as SI of police at
Bebezia Out Post under Tezpur PS. On that day, OC, Tezpur PS entrusted him to
investigate case of Tezpur PS Case No 1926/16 under Section 366-A
/342/376/325/34 of the IPC. After receipt of the case diary, upon thorough perusal it
appears that the case was almost completed the investigation by the earlier IO, SI
Dipak Das. On perusal of the medical report it appears to him that the victim was
below 18 years, therefore, he has request and prayed to include under Section 4 of
POCSO Act along with the other Sections. Thereafter, the Hon’ble Court allowed
including Section 4 of POCSO Act on his prayer. Then, he filed charge sheet against
the accused Sri Utpal Bora, vide CS No 532/17 dated 30-06-2017. Ext.8 is the charge
sheet and Ext. 8(1) is his signature. Ext.9 is his prayer for request to include Section
4 of POCSO Act along with the other Sections. Ext.9 (1) is his signature.

PW5 denied that there was no materials for submitting the charge

sheet against the accused.

15. PW6 who is the investigating officer (IO) of this case. He stated that
on 22-10-2016 he was posted as I/C Bebezia Out Post under Tezpur PS. On that day,
one Sri Jatin Saikia filed an ejahar before him. After receipt of the ejahar, he has
sent the said ejahar to OC, Tezpur PS for registration of the case after making entry
as Bebezia OP GD Entry No 446 dated 22-10-2016. After registration of the case, the
OC, Tezpur PS entrusted him to investigate the case. Accordingly, on 23-10-2016 he
visited to the place of occurrence and prepared the sketch map of the place of
occurrence. Ext.9 is the sketch map and Ext. 9(1) is his signature. He has recorded
the statement of the witnesses and also recovered the victim aged about 17 years,.
He sent the victim girl for her medical examination and also sent her before the

learned Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. Thereafter,
Page |10

arrested the accused person namely Utpal Bora, and forwarded him to the judicial
custody. He has also seized one Nokia Mobile Handset vide SIM No 7578052471 on
being produced by the victim. Ext.10 is the seizure list and Ext. 10(1) is his
Signature. The seized mobile handset was given in zimma vide zimma No. 193/17.
The victim also produced before him one photocopy of her Birth Certificate where
her date of birth is mentioned as 31-10-2002.

In cross examination the PW6 said inter alia that he has not recorded the
statement of the scribe, who wrote the FIR. On 22/10/16 the informant produced
the victim before her and thereafter the informant lodged the FIR. Before filing the
FIR, the informant informed him verbally about the incident.

PW6 said that he had not visited the Tumuki Daily Market during the course
of investigation and also has not made endeavor to visit Tumuki Daily Market. He
said that the place of occurrence is the house of the victim. He has not mentioned
the names of the neighboring people of the place of the occurrence in the sketch
map.

He has not searched the call list of the phone which he seized. He himself
handed over the Sim card of the mobile to the owner.

PW6 said that the victim(PW3) did not stated before him that the accused
took her to a house made of bamboo and thatch, there he forcibly kiss her, bite her
breast, opening her clothes, forcibly entered his private part to her private part and
forcibly rape her, that the accused has continuously threatened her to kill, did not
allowed her to go from the said room, he rang his mother over phone and told his
mother that he took her forcefully and then his mother advise him to take her to
their home in the morning time, not she reported the matter to her father.

The PW6 said that the PW3 stated before him that while she returned from
her tuition, she met accused and introduced each other, exchange cell phone number
and gradually develop love affair between them. PW3 also stated before him that
accused asked her over phone to come out from her home to meet him and
accordingly, she told her grandmother that she is going to her aunt’s house and met
Utpal at the road and from there they went to Tumuki Market by the bicycle of Utpal
and stated that there is no any chance of marry her by the accused.

PW6 denied that he tutored the victim to give statement before the leaned

Magistrate.

16. DW1, who is the father of accused stated that the wife (Mamoni
Page |11

Saikia) of informant uploading photograph of another girl of the village maintained
relationship with one boy titled ‘Nath’. Mamoni Saikia gave the photo of the
daughter of Bitupan Saikia as her photo in face-book. On 21-10-2016, the said boy
titled ‘Nath’ came to the house of informant and the boy came to know that Mamoni
is a married woman and not a girl and identities are different. The said ‘Nath’ came
on that day to propose for marrying that girl Mamoni. Noticing that the girl is a
married woman, the boy raised hue and cry. People of the village gathered in the
house of Jatin Saikia. He and other villagers gone through the phone of the said boy
and could see that the photograph is of daughter of Bitupan. The daughter of
Bitupan also came to know about her photograph and started crying as she do not
know the said boy. Some of the villagers slapped and kicked Jatin Saikia and his
wife. Then the daughter of the informant was also present. He also commented that
they (Jatin and wife) have committed a bad thing. Then Jatin and his wife
threatened him. Bitupan Saikia lodged FIR against the wife of Jatin. On 21/10/2016
police arrested Mamoni and brought her to the police station. Mamoni Saikia was
inside the jail for 1 % month. After some days police started searching his son i.e the
accused. He could presume that as he took some leading role on the day when
‘Nath’ visited the home of Jatin, for that reason Jatin kept grudge against him. On
21/10/2016 his son (accused) never committed the offence of kidnapping the
daughter of Jatin Saikia.

In cross the DW1 denied that the present case is not related to the incident

of arrest of Morami. This case is regarding his son kidnapping a girl.

17. The learned Addl. PPs has argued that the offence against the
accused has been proved beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, the accused be

convicted under the charges framed against him.

18. On the other hand, learned advocate for the accused has argued that
the statement of the victim cannot be accepted as she made contradictory
statement. In her statement under Section 164 CrPC, she stated that accused
proposed her and later on said that accused committed raped on her. The PW1 did
not Know anything about the accused. The evidence of PW1 cannot be believed,
because how a father remained silent the whole night without informing the matter
to police. PW1 also admitted that an altercation took place between him and the

father of the accused prior to the said incident. The statement of the victim cannot
Page |12

be accepted as she admitted that she went by sitting on the carrier of the bicycle
and also return by the said bicycle sitting on the carrier. PW3 came across many
people while going at night towards Tumuki, but, she raised no alarm. This also
caused suspicion on the conduct of the victim. Further, there is no injury detected by
the doctor on the person of the victim, which shows that no sexual offence
committed upon her. The victim gave her statement after three days of incident
before the Magistrate. Further, prosecution has not submitted GD Entry and no
explanation placed for not submitting the same. The IO has not visited the place of
occurrence i.e. the Tumuki Market, did not seize the bicycle, and whether the bicycle
has a carrier or not. The call records of the phone were also not collected by the IO
during investigation.

The defence has adduced evidence showing that there was an enmity
between the father of the accused and the family of victim and hence, the accused
was implicated falsely. Hence, the learned Counsel for the accused prays for acquittal

of the accused.

19, At the outset I deem it necessary to make this statement that the
investigation of the case is conducted in a lackadaisical manner. The mobile phone of
the victim seized but returned without keeping the call records. The victim gave the
phone number of the accused (she said that she exchanged phone numbers with the
accused) but I O did not deem it necessary to seize the same. There was reason
before the I O to go through these (phones). The place of occurrence is not visited
by the I O. The victim maintained that she stayed the whole night with the accused
in a thatched house at Tumuki, near Tezpur Medical College Hospital and the same is
200 to 250 meters away from the main road. The I O did not seize the clothes of the
victim. No neighbors of the accused examined by the I O, though the victim said that
in the morning the accused took her to his house and she was assaulted. The I O
sent the victim to the doctor for examination on the next day of returning of the

victim. Many such lapses may follow.

20. In Brajalal Deb and ors. --vs-- State of Tripura and ors (reported
in 2011 (4) GLT 103) the hon’ble Gauhati High Court observed as follows;

“ (17) In so far as the specific deficiencies pointed out by Mr Kar Bhowmik,

on the earliest information received by the police not being the starting point of the
Page |13

criminal process or where the pond from where the injured witnesses rushed to the
PO. , not being reflected in the I. O's. sketch map, these undoubtedly are
deficiencies in ths criminal investigation. But the important question is, whether the
accused will have to be acquitted on that score. in my opinion the answer has to be
in the negative since, truthfulness of the prosecution case has to be judged on the
basis of the evidence available. The only rider in such cases is that, the Court is
required to be cautions, while evaluating the evidence. Defective investigation need
not necessarily lead to rejection of the prosecution case when the incident is
otherwise proved. This approach finds support from the decision in Visveswaran Vs.
State Rep. by S. D. M. , of the Supreme Court reported in (2003) 6 SCC 73.”

21. The age of the victim as per medical report is less than 18 years. The
victim said that her age is 16 years. Moreover, she was a student of Class-X at the
time of occurrence. The FIR also mentioned that the victim was aged about 16
years. Though the prosecution has suggested to PW1 that he has guessed the age of
the victim to be 16 years, the same cannot be accepted as the father of the victim is
an appropriate person to know the age of his ward. Moreover, his statement is
supported by the medical evidence and the document gathered by the police during
the investigation. In view of the above, it is held that at the time of occurrence, the
age of the victim was less than 18 years.

From the evidence of PW3 (victim) it is brought out by the defence that
victim ride on the bicycle of the accused for around 2 kms by Highway and there is
no any fact of raising alarm by the victim while accompanying the accused to Tumuki
Bazar. The matter of missing of the victim in the night of 21-10-2016, cannot be
disbelieved, in view of the evidence given by the PW1 and the PW3 (victim). PW3
specifically stated that she was not aware regarding gathering of public in her house
after the arrest of her mother. As per the birth certificate of the PW3 and the opinion
of the doctor it is proved that on the day of incident her age was less than 18

(eighteen) years.

22. The defence has argued that as the version of the PW3 before the
investigating officer and the court is contradictory, her statement cannot be at all
relied upon. The PW3 (victim) said in her cross that she went with the accused sitting

on the back carrier of the bicycle and travelled quite a distance and on the way came
Page |14

across many pedestrian but never raised alarm. Also while returning to the house of
the accused she did not raised any alarm. To these arguments of the defence, it can
be concluded that the suggestion to the PW3 also proves that the PW3 has narrated
in detail her route to the thatched house. PW3 has not tried to conceal any facts
regarding the road through which she went with the accused.

By cross examining the PW6 the defence has reflected the portion of the
statement given by the PW3 before the police. The PW6 said that the victim said
before him regarding love affair between her and the accused and they also
exchanged phone numbers. The PW6 also said that the victim said before him that
there is no chance of the accused marrying her.

The PW3 has clearly mentioned that in the night she stayed in a thatched
house at Tumuki Bazar. The defence has not led any evidence to show that the
accused did not know the victim from earlier. There is nothing in the record to
disbelieve this version of the PW3. Since the version of the PW3 regarding going to a
house at Tumuki Bazar is proved, not visiting the said place by the investigating

officer during investigation is not of much relevancy.

In AYUB ALI @ ZAMADAR (MD. VS-STATE OF ASSAM (reported in 2014
(5) GLT 36) the Hon’ble Gauhati High Court observed;,

"( 10 ) The learned counsel, for the appellants, has submitted that the victim
girl had developed love affairs with Mr Ayub Ali and that she at her own will had
eloped with the appellants for entering into marriage with Mr Ayub Ali. The victim’s
evidence that she was forcefully taken by the appellants negates the said contention.
That apart, the victim being a minor her consent, even if it was there, cannot help

the appellants”.

All these also prove that the victim knew the accused from earlier and may
consented to go with the accused. The consent of the PW3 is to be understood from
the evidences of record. Since the accused is also charged under POCSO Act, the
consent of the victim of no value. However, the reason for moving of the victim from
her lawful guardianship is to be discussed. Before the PW6 the PW3 (victim) said
that there is no chance of accused marrying her. The defence has not examined any
witness to show that in the morning the accused and the victim never come to the
house of the accused next morning. The PW3 said that during night the accused
made phone calls to his mother and his mother advised him to bring her (victim) in

the morning. Whenever a mother advise her son to bring a girl to the house, an
Page |15

accompanying minor girl will naturally come to some conclusion that she will be
accepted as the daughter-in-law. The driving out of the victim from the courtyard of
the accused has shattered the impression that accused will marry her and this may
be the reason that victim stated before the PW6 that there is no chance of accused
marrying her. The accused has not clarified as to whether he was in the house in the
night. If the PW3 was not with the accused in the night, how would she know that
the accused made phone calls to his mother during the night? If the accused was
really in the house that night, why he made phone calls to his mother? The defence

could not dislodge these incriminating evidences pointing towards his criminality.

23. Section 29 of the POCSO Act speaks as follows;

“Where a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to
commit any offence under Sections 3,5,7 and Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court
Shall presume, that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit

the offence, as the case may be unless the contrary Is proved.”

24. Here one of the charges is under POCSO Act. The presumption will be
on the accused to rebut this presumption. By not clarifying the fact of his station in
the night of occurrence and not explaining the matters of calling his mother over
phone at the night, and the other details given by the victim, it is held that the

accused failed to rebut the presumption against him.

25. The PW3 has maintained that she was subjected to sexual
penetration. The defence has failed to demolish her version regarding the same. She
has narrated the manner in which she has been subjected to sexual penetration in
her evidence. Since the PW3 is examined by the doctor after two days, it cannot be
expected that doctor would be able to detect that victim faced sexual penetration.
Moreover, the investigating officer has not seized the clothes of the PW3 in spite of

PW3 returned to the home immediately and regarding the matter FIR is lodged.

26. Regarding the defence plea that it cannot be believed that a father
would not inform the police whole night regarding missing of only daughter, the facts
are to be considered. In the evening the wife of the informant taken away by the

police and thereafter the girl went missing.
Page |16

27. The defence case that on the day of occurrence an incident involving
the mother of the victim took place and during that time the father of the accused
took a lead role and hence the present case is lodged falsely against the son is not
believable. It is proved that the accused and the victim knew each other from earlier.
The defence suggested that an altercation took place between him and the DW1, but
the DW1 said in his evidence that people assaulted the PW1 and his wife. Further,
why a father will cook up a case and involve his minor daughter to be a victim of

sexual offence.

28. The above discussions and reasons proves that the accused had
induced the victim “X” on the day of occurrence to move from her village and stay
with him whole night. The victim (minor girl) is subjected to illicit relation with the
kidnapper (accused). The confinement is proved by the fact that the minor girl is to

remain in an unknown place and room with the accused.

29. In view of the above discussion and reasons, it is held that the
prosecution has proved the guilt of the accused Utpal Borah u/s 366A/342 of IPC and
u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

30. Since the offence is committed against a minor girl, the accused is not

considered under Probation of Offenders Act.

31. Heard the accused on the sentence under Section 235(2) of CrPC.
ORDER
32. Considering the offences committed by the accused, the accused is

sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for 7(Sseven) years and to pay a fine of
Rs.2000/-(rupees two thousand) under Section 4 of POCSO Act, in default of
payment of fine to Simple Imprisonment for two months. Further, the accused is
sentenced to Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of 3(three) years and to pay a fine
of Rs.2000/-(rupees two thousand) for the offence under Section 366-A of the IPC,
in default of payment of fine to undergo Simple Imprisonment for two months.
Accused is sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for 3(three) months and to
pay a fine of Rs. 500/-(rupees five hundred) for the offence under Section 342 of
IPC, in default of payment of fine to undergo Simple Imprisonment for one month.

All the sentences shall run concurrently.
Page |17

33. The period of detention of accused person, during investigation,
enquiry or trial, if any, be set off against the substantive sentence of imprisonment
under Section 428 of the CrPC.

34. As per provision of Section 357-A of the CrPC, victim’s compensation is
permissible in law. After going through the statement of witnesses on record, I think
that victim is entitled to get the compensation. Accordingly, an amount of Rs.20,000/-

is awarded as compensation to the victim.

35. The bailor is discharged and the bail bond stand cancelled.
36. Free copy of judgment be furnished to the convict.
37. Learned Secretary, District Legal Service Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur is

to give the compensation to the victim after necessary formalities.

35. Another copy of judgment be sent to the learned District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur as per provision of Section 365 of CrPC.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 10" day of
September, 2018.

(R Baruah)
Special Judge
Sonitpur,Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(R Baruah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |18

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Sri Jatin Saikia,

2.PW2 — Sri Pallab Kotoky

3.PW3 — Miss “X” (victim),

4.PW4 — Dr Jharna Kakoti,

5.PW5 — SI Lakhi Prasad Kachary &
6.PW6 — SI Dipak Das (IO).

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

1.DW1 — Sri Kunja Borah.

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

Sea Pf ee hv P

Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.

Oo DAN AD Ua BW NY

: Ejahar,

: Statement of victim under Section 164 CrPC,
: Medical Report,

: Advice slip,

: Vaginal smear report of victim,

: Urine for HCG report of victim,

: X-ray & USG report of victim,

: Charge sheet,

: Sketch map.

(R Baruah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur,Tezpur.
