DISTRICT : SIVASAGAR.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, SIVASAGAR:

Ref. :-

Present :-

The State of Assam
: Vs =

Sri Sarat Gogoi

Appearance :-

For the prosecution/
State of Assam

For the accused

Dates of depositions
Date of argument

Date of Judgment

1 The accused Sri Sarat Gogoi, son of Late Mohendra Gogoi, resident of Lakily
Gaon under Charaipung P. S. in the district of Sivasagar, here in this case has been put to face

the trial to answer the charge under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual

Spl. (P) Case No.13 of 2014

(Arising out of Charaipung P.S. Case No.4/2014)

U/S 6 of POCSO Act.

Sri S. Khound.
Special Judge,
Sivasagar.

Prosecution

Accused

Sri A.K. Bora,
Public Prosecutor.

SK. Shamsher, Advocate,

Sibsagar Bar Association,
Sivasagar.

24.09.2014, 13.11.2014, 22.01.2015
20.03.2015, 31.03.2015.

21.04.2015.

JUDGMENT

Offences Act, 2012 (in short the 'POCSO Act’).

Ze Keeping in view the social object of preventing social victimization or ostracism
of the victim of a sexual offence, it would be appropriate on the part of the court not to indicate

the name of the victim in the judgment. This court has chosen to describe her as 'X' in the

judgment.

Contd....Page
3. The fact as disclosed in the First Information Report ( in short FIR) was that on
06.05.2014, at about 4.30 P. M. Sri Bertho Tigga, S/O Late Pratarsh Tigga of Santipur Tea
Estate, Line No.1, P. S. Charipung lodged an FIR before the O/C, Charaipung Police Station
alleging that on that day , i.e. on 06.05.2014 accused Sarat Gogoi called his daughter "8 to his
residence on the pretext to receive guest and while his daughter came to his residence then
accused Sarat Gogoi attempted to commit rape on her, but somehow victim "8 managed to

escape from the clutches of the accused and disclosed the matter before the people.

4. On receipt of the Ejahar, police registered Charaipung P. S. Case No.04/2014
U/S 6 of the POCSO Act, and investigated into the case. Accordingly Investigating Officer
visited the place of occurrence, prepared the Sketch map of the place of occurence and recorded
the statements of the witnesses. During investigation I.O. arrested the accused person, sent the
victim 4§ to the Civil Hospital for her medical examination and also forwarded the victim % to
the court for recording her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation,
submitted charge-sheet against the accused under Section 6 of the Protection of Children

from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

5. On appearance of the accused person copy was furnished to the accused by the
Court of learned Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Charaideo, Sonari and subsequently the case

was committed to the court of the Hon'ble Sessions Judge, Sivasagar.

6. On appearance of the accused person before this court, this court after hearing
both the sides formally framed charge against the accused person U/S 8 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act). The charge was read over and

explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

7. To bring home the charge, the prosecution has examined the victim "8 as P.W.2
and also examined four other witnesses including M.O. Defence cross-examined the said P.Ws
but adduced no evidence. The statement of the accused person is recorded U/S-313 of the

Cr. P.C. Defence plea is of total denial.

Contd....Page
THE POINT FOR DETERMINATION IS

18. Whether on 06.05.2014 accused committed sexual assault on the victim 98
who is below 12 years and thereby committed an offence punishable under

Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

39, To arrive at a judicial decision, let the evidence on record be appreciated.

910. P.W.1 Dr. Mintu Deb deposed that on 07.05.2014 he was working at Sonari
Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital as Medical Officer. On that day, at about 1 P.M. on police
requisition, he examined the victim "§ age 12 years of Santipur Tea Estate, Line No.1 under
Charaipung P. S. in connection with Charaipung P. S. Case No.04/2014 U/S 6 of the POCSO
Act. The victim girl was accompanied by UBC/323 Jitumoni Gogoi and she was examined in
presence of female attendant Dipali Tigga (aunty) Mridu Malaya Gogoi and on examination
found as follows :

Identification marks one black mole under left eye.
General physical examination:

General behaviour normal. Mental state normal.
Cloths are changed. Findings Nil.

Built and nutrition average. Weight 38 Kg.

Height 4 feet 8 Inches. Teeth 7+7/7+7.

Development of axillary and pubic hair absent.
Breast are not well developed and no marks of recent
violence is seen.

Marks of violence in the body - not seen.

Examination of genitalia -
Genitalia not well developed. Pubic hair absent.

Clitoris normal.

Labia, majora and minora - normal.
Forchette normal. Hymen intact.
Vagina normal.

Injury No injury marks seen.
Discharge and stain absent.
Internal examination: Not done.

Laboratory examination :
Vaginal smear examination - No spermatozoa seen.

Pregnancy Test - It is negative.
Untra-sonography report reveals non-pregnant,

normal uterus.

Contd....Page
Radiological examination:

X-ray of left wrist and elbow joints and X-ray of left iliac crest - the

impression is that the age of the subject is below 15 years.

Opinion : On examination of victim % P.W.1 Doctor has opined that (i) her age
is below 15 years, (ii) there was no recent mark of violence on victim # body, (iii) no recent
evidence of sexual assault during the time of examination. Ext.1 is the medical report and
Ext.1(1) is his signature.

11. P.W.2. is the victim 98 who deposed that accused is known to her. About 6/7
months ago, from the date of her deposition, one day i.e. on the day of the occurrence the garden
Chawkidar of Santipur Tea Estate sent the victim to the house of the accused Sarat Gogoi for
domestic help. After her arrival the accused engaged her to sweep the floor of the house of the
accused. Thereafter accused closed the front door of the house and offered Rs.100/- to her and
dragged her to the bed. Then she gave a kick on person of the accused and she somehow managed
to escape. She has further deposed that accused also caught hold of her waist and torn her wearing
apparel. Thereafter she reported the occurrence to her mother and on being informed by the
Garden Manager police came to the place of occurrence and took her to Doctor for her medical
examination and her statement was also recorded in the court. Ext.2 is the statement of the victim
M2 wherein Ext.2(1) and Ext.2(2) are her signature. In cross-examination P.W.2 deposed that the
accused has two children apart from his wife in his house. She denied defence suggestion that on
the day of the occurrence she did not work properly in the house of the accused for which wife of
the accused rebuked her, as a result she has deposed false evidence against the accused out of
grudge. She further denied defence suggestion that she did not state before police that accused
dragged her to the bed and also caught hold of her waist at the time of occurrence.

12. P.W.3 is Bertho Tigga deposed that accused is known to him. About 5/6 months
ago the occurrence took place, as a result of which he lodged the Ejaha giving his thumb
impression. P.W.3 further deposed that after the occurrence his victim daughter reported that she
went to the house of the accused to work, but the accused dragged her to his bed. In cross-
examination P.W.3 deposed that he does not know the name of the person who wrote the Ejahar.
He also deposed that he did not state before police that at the time of occurrence accused dragged
the victim lg to his bed.

13. P.W.4 is Jasinta Tigga who deposed that victim " is her daughter. On the day of
occurrence her daughter returned home from the Tea Garden on crying and reported that she was
sent to the house of the accused for domestic help and at that time accused Sarat Gogoi pushed
her down by closing the door of his house. In cross-examination P.W.4 deposed that she did not
state before police that on the day of occurrence her victim daughter came on crying and reported
that accused pushed her down.

14. P.W.5 is Sri Tuniram Neog, S.I. of police deposed that on 06-05-2014 when he
was on duty as O/C of Charaipung Police Station, on that day he received an Ejahar from one
Bertho Tigga and registered a case. Ext.3 is the Ejahar and Ext.3(1) is his signature. During
investigation he visited the place of occurrence, prepared Sketch map which is Ext.4 wherein
Ext.4(1) is his signature. He further deposed that the victim was medically examined by the
Doctor and her statement was also recorded in the Court. During investigation he seized one
wearing apparel
of the victim vide Ext.5 which is a seizure list wherein Ext.5(1) is his signature. On completion
of investigation P.W.5 submitted Charge-Sheet which is Ext.6 wherein Ext.6(1) is his signature.
In cross-examination P.W.5 deposed that the victim 4 did not state before him that at the time of
occurrence her wearing apparel was torn. P.W.5 further stated that during investigation victim
stated before him that at the time of occurrence the accused did not misbehave her. He denied
defence suggestion that case was not properly investigated.

15. To prove the charge of sexual assault the prosecution is to prove
that accused with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the
child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person
or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves

physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.

16. From the evidence on record it transpires that the victim nowhere
stated regarding sexual intent of the accused at the time of alleged occurrence;
rather she simply stated that at the time of occurrence accused dragged and
pushed her down on the bed. Moreover there is also no mention regarding
touching of vagina, penis, anus or breast of the victim or make her to touch
such parts of the accused with sexual intent. The victim herself deposed that
she gave a kick on person of the accused and thereafter accused caught hold of
her waist, as a result her wearing apparel was torn. If for the sake of argument
that part of evidence of the victim is relied upon even then it does not indicate
the sexual intent of the accused as because the victim gave a kick on person of
accused as a result of which accused caught hold of the victim by her waist.
There is also no circumstantial evidence available on record forming a chain
pointing towards the guilt of the accused as alleged. There is no any eye
witness of the alleged occurrence. Apart from that the Investigating Officer
during cross-examination clearly stated that during investigation the victim

stated before him that at the time of occurrence accused did not misbehave her.

17. On careful scrutiny of the entire evidence on record, and in the
backdrop of foregoing discussions I am of the view that the prosecution has
failed to prove its case under Section 8 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 against the accused person beyond all reasonable

doubts.

Contd....Page
Page---6

18. Accordingly I hold that the accused is not guilty and he is acquitted of the charge
of offence under Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences

Act,2012 and set him at liberty forthwith. His bail bond stands cancelled.

19. Judgment prepared, pronounced and delivered in the open Court under my hand

and seal of this Court on this the, 21°' day of April 2015 at Sivasagar.

( Sri S. Khound. )
Sessions Judge,

Sivasagar

Dictated & Corrected by me

( Sri S. Khound. )
Sessions Judge,

Sivasagar
