Page 1 of 22

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused
u/s 313 Cr.P.C
Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

38 OF 2016

(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case _ No.
3839/2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS

Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

=-Vs-
Sri Daku Bhakta @ Dulen
Son of late\Monohar Bhakta,
Resident of Solagaon
Police Station — Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
14/03/2017
18/04/2017, 19/08/207,
04/09/2017, 19/12/2017
22/12/2017 & 06/03/2018

06/03/2018.

26/03/2018

06/04/2018

Mr. M.Ch. Baruah,
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. A.K. Saikia, Legal Aid
counsel.
Page 2 of 22

JUDGMENT
1. In this case accused Sri Daku Bhakta @ Dulen is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.
Da The factual matrix according to the FIR, in brief, is that on or about 3

p.m. of 10-11-2016 while informant’s 12 years old minor daughter went to
the house of the accused to have a glass of water, accused by gagging_her
mouth committed rape on her. Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar was
filed by the informant Sri Dilip Kurmi before the Incharge of Salonibari Police
Out Post on 11-11-2016.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, the I/C of Salonibari Police-OQut Post after
giving the GD Entry being No. 322 dated 11-11-2016 at 8.30 a.m.,
forwarded the same to Officer-In-Charge of. Tezpur Police Station for
registering a case. On being receipt the ejahar, O/C Tezpur Police Station
registered a case being Tezpur P.S. Case No. 2039/16 under section 4 of the
POCSO Act. After completion of usual\investigation, the O/C Tezpur Police
Station sent up the case for trial against the accused Sri Daku Bhakta @
Dulen u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
parties, framed charge under section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the
accused Sri Daku\Bhakta @ Dulen and particulars of the charge was read
over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not guilty and claims to
be tried.

By To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 11
(eleven) numbers of witnesses which includes the informant, victim, other
material witnesses and the Investigating Officer and Judicial Magistrate.

6. After completion of prosecution evidence accused is examined u/s
313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and evidence
appears against the accused are put before him for explanation where he
denied the evidence and allegation and declined to give defence evidence.

7. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of
both sides.

 
Page 3 of 22

8. The point for decision in this case is that:
1. Whether on 10-11-2016, at about 3 p.m. at Solagaon,

Gelaphukuri, under Tezpur Police station, accused committed
penetrative sexual assault on Miss X (aged about 12 years) and
thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of the POCSO
Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.
9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on
record.

10. PW- 1 Sri Dilip Kurmi, father of the victim, who has stated that they
called the accused as “Mama”. The incident took place about 5 months ago.
The incident took place at about 12 to 2 p.m. At the relevant time he went
out to search his work. After 2 p.m. when he came to his house, he saw his
victim daughter was crying. When he asked his daughter and wife, they told
that when his daughter went to the house ‘of accused Daku, accused Daku
hold her opening her pant. In the next day jof the incident, he has filed the
ejahar before the I/C Salonibari Police Qut Post. The ejahar was written by
Gaonburah as per his dictationnandyhis victim daughter. After writing the
ejahar by Gaonburah he put-thumb impression therein. At the relevant time

his victim daughter was 12.years of age.

Though«he-has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many.suggestions, the evidence as to on the day of incident while he
returned home after 2 p.m. from his work he saw his victim daughter was
crying»when he asked his daughter and wife, they told him that when his
daughter went to the house of the accused to have a glass of water,
accused Daku hold her opening her pant. In the next day of the incident, he
has filed the ejahar before the I/C of Salonibari police Out Post has remained

unchallenged.

11. PW-2 Smt. Bijuli Gorait, the neighbour of the victim, stated that
accused Dulen Bhakta @ Daku @ Munindra is her neighbour. She also
knows the victim. The incident took place about 6 months ago. The incident

took place on forenoon of that day. While she returned from meeting she

 
Page 4 of 22

saw a gathering of women where the victim was found crying. On being
asked the victim, the victim stated that at the relevant time she went to
drink a glass of water to the house of the accused. During that time accused
dragged her inside his home, fell her down in the bed and committed rape
on her by opening her pant. During that time she along with father of the
victim and Rina Karmakar etc. were there. Then the father of the victim
searched the accused in his house but he came to know that the accused
fled towards the paddy field. Father of the victim caught accused fromthe
paddy field and took him. Siya is her daughter. She reported her that while

she opening the door, she saw accused was lying on the victim.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination the
evidence as to about 6 months ago, at forenoon, «while she returned from
meeting she saw a gathering of women where-the victim was found crying,
on being asked the victim, the victim stated that at the relevant time she
went to drink a glass of water to the house ofthe accused, during that time
accused dragged her inside his home,~fell her down in the bed and
committed rape on her by opening her pant, during that time she along with
father of the victim and Rina Karmakar etc. were there, then the father of
the victim searched the-accused in his house but he came to know that the
accused fled towards the paddy field, father of the victim caught accused
from the paddy field-and took him and Siya, who is her daughter reported
her that whilesshe opening the door, she saw accused was lying on the

victim has remained unchallenged.

12...PW-3 Smt. Rina Karmakar stated that accused Dullen Bhakta @ Daku
is her neighbour. She also knows the victim. The incident took place about 6
months ago. The incident took place on forenoon of that day. While she
returned from school after attending photo sessions, she saw a gathering of
women where the victim was found crying. On being asked, the victim
stated that at the relevant time she went to the house of the accused.
During that time accused dragged her inside his home and committed rape

on her by opening her pant. Siya reported that she saw the incident while

 
Page 5 of 22

she suddenly opened the door of the house of the accused. Then she came

to know about the incident.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions, the evidence as to while she returned from school
after attending photo sessions, she saw a gathering of women where the
victim was found crying, on being asked, the victim stated that at the
relevant time she went to the house of the accused, during that.time
accused dragged her inside his home and committed rape on her byopening
her pant and Siya reported that she saw the incident while shessuddenly

opened the door of the house of the accused has remained unchallenged.

13. PW-4 Smti Bharati Bhumik stated that accused“Munindra @ Dullen
Bhakta @ Daku is her neighbour. Victim is also. her next neighbour. The
incident took place about 6 months ago at forenoon; while she went to fair
price shop, children playing there saw accused kept victim inside his home.
On being seeing them, she also went to the house of the accused and on
opening the door she saw the accused was lying on the victim. Though the
victim did not state about the incident initially but lateron the victim stated
that while she went to the house of the accused, accused took her inside
and committed “kharap. kam” (misdeed) by opening her pant.

14, PW- 5 the victim Miss X who was examined after making enquiry to
confirm about the. intelligence and ability to give rational answers and also
ability to-administer oath, stated that the incident took place in the day time,
During that time she went to the house of the accused to have a glass of
water where accused dragged her inside his house by gagging her mouth,
closed the door, fell her down, undressed her, accused lifted her gown and
opening her pant, he inserted his sexual organ into her private parts. In the
mean time while Siya seen the incident by opening the door raised alarm
and after committing misdeed accused went to the paddy field and slept
there. At the time of incident, there was no other persons present in the
house of the accused. She called the accused as “Nana”. Then Siya informed
the matter to Renuka Kaki. Then she was taken. She also reported the

matter to her father and Renuka Kako. On being came to know about the

 
Page 6 of 22

incident, her father assaulted her at paddy field. Thereafter, her father filed
this case. After instituting the case she was examined medically and also
sent her to the learned Magistrate to record her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
There is no any quarrel with the accused prior to the incident.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except

giving many suggestions, the evidence as to at the relevant time she went to
the house of the accused to have a glass of water where accused dragged
her inside his house, gagged her mouth, closed the door, laid her down in
bed and by opening her dress, accused touches her private parts throughvhis
male sexual organ which is seen by Siya has remained unchallenged.
15. PW-6 Sri Munna Kurmi stated that victim is his niece. Complainant is
his elder brother. The incident took place before the Last.Magh Bihu. On the
date of alleged incident while he was returned. from work, he heard that
accused raped his niece.

Though he has been exposed to longcross-examination the evidence

as to on the day of incident while he:was returning from his work he heard
that accused raped his niece has remained unchallenged.
16. PW- 7 Miss Siya Gorait‘who stated that the incident took place or
about 9/10 months ago~at about 2/3 p.m. Sarmila, the daughter of the
accused is her friend. At the relevant point of time she went to the house of
the accused to bring back her clothes which are taken by the daughter of the
accused, while she opened the door of the house of the accused she saw
accused Daku was sleeping upon the victim , the clothes of her lower portion
was lifted and accused’s pant was also half open, on being seen her accused
fled.away towards the paddy field. During that time the victim came out by
crying. The victim reported to her that while she went to have a glass of
water went to the house of the accused, accused gagged her mouth,
dragged her inside forcefully committed misdeed on her.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions, the evidence as to at the relevant time at about
2/3 p.m. 2/3 p.m., when she entered into the house of accused by opening
the door to bring back her clothes taken by the daughter of the accused, she

saw the accused was lying sleeping upon the victim, the lower portion of

 
Page 7 of 22

clothes of the victim was found lifted and accused’s pant was found half
portion and on being seen her accused fled away towards paddy field has
remained unchallenged.
17. PW 8, Dr.Tutumoni Handique stated that on 11-11-2016 she was
posted as working as Sr. Medical & Health Officer in the Kanaklata Civil
Hospital, Tezpur and on that day, in reference to Tezpur PS Case NO.
2039/16 u/s 4 of the Special POCSO Act, 2012, she has examined one
patient/victim namely Miss X, aged about 12 years, D/O Dilip KUrmi, resident
of Solagaon (gelabil), PS tezpur on being escorted and identified bysHG(W)
Biju Koch. Consent of examination was taken in written from.father of the
victim. On examination, she found the following:
According to victim on 10-11-2016, she was assaulted by known old
person. Menstrual history : Menarche attained two months back.
O/E :- Height — 147 cm., Weight — 34 Kg,Teeth — 6/6, 7/6.
Identification mark : Mole on left side forehead. At the time of
examination, she is well dressed, neat and tidy. Gait is normal,
secondary sexual characters are in developing stage. Hymen absent.
No injury seen in her body.as well as on her private parts.
Investigations advised and reports-
1.Vaginal smear — no sperm. Done at KCH Laboratory, Lab
No, 121/16.
2. Urine for HCG — negative. Done at Assam X-ray Clinical &
Laboratory, Patient ID 31851, Pathologist — Dr. D. Mahanta.
3.X-ray for age determination — Age of the person under
investigation is below 18 years. Done at Assam X-ray Clinical
& Laboratory, Patient ID AXC 3073, Radiologist — Dr. P. K.
Barman.
4. Ultra sonography of abdomen- normal USG with non
gravid uterus. Done at Assam X-ray Clinical & Laboratory, ,
Radiologist — Dr. P. K. Barman.
OPINION:

1. No sign and symptom suggestive of recent sexual

intercourse.

 
Page 8 of 22

2. No mark of violence seen on her body as well as on her

private parts.

3. Victim is not pregnant.

4. Age of the victim is below 18 years.

Enclosures:

Urine report,vaginal smear report, X-ray & U/S report, X-ray
plate and USG plate.

Ext. 1 is the Medical Report and Ext. 1 (1) is her signature. Ext.°2.is
the Urine report and Ext. 2(1) is the signature of Dr. D. Mahanta, Pathologist
which she knew. Ext. 3 is the vaginal smear report done at\KCH and Ext.
3(1) is the signature of laboratory technician of KCH which she knew. Ext. 4
is the Ultra sound and X-ray report with plates. Ext. 4(1),is,the signature of
Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist, which she knew.

18. PW- 9 Sri Lakhi Prasad Kachari, stated that-on 11-11-2016 he was
posted as I/C Salonibari Out Post under Tezpur. On that day, one Dilip Kurmi
filed an ejahar before the Out Post where he put thumb impression. After
receipt of the ejahar by giving a.GD Entry No. 322 dated 11-11-2016 at
about 8.30 a.m. forwarded the.same to O/C, Tezpur PS for registering a
case under proper section.of law. Accordingly, the O/C Tezpur PS registered
a case being Tezpur PS Case No. 2039/16 u/s 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted
him to investigate the case. Ext. 6 is the said ejahar and Ext. 6(1) is his
Signature and Ext. 6(2) is the signature with note of the then O/C Nareswar
Nath. He-recorded the statement of victim and complainant at the Out post
on that day. Thereafter, he visited the place of occurrence, prepared the
sketch.map on the place of occurrence. Ext. 7 is the sketch map and Ext.
7(1) is his signature. Thereafter, he examined the witnesses and recorded
their statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Then he arrested the accused and forwarded
him to the court. The victim was sent for medical examination and thereafter
the victim was produced before the court for recording her statement u/s
164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 8 is the statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. He
also collected the medical certificated along with the required documents in
connection with this case. On completion of investigation, finding prima facie

materials against the accused he has filed the chargesheet against the

 
Page 9 of 22

accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act. After discussion of the superior officer he has
sent the chargesheet before the court for trial. Ext. 8 is the charge-sheet

and Ext. 9(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination, the I.0. stated that in Ext. 7 (sketch map), the
place of occurrence is shown in the house of the accused Daku but it is not
specifically stated how many rooms are there and how many doors and
windows are there in the said house. The incident took place about 3.p.m.
He has not seized any clothes of the victim as the incident took place on the

previous day.

Witness Dilip Kurmi did not state before him that.“at jthe relevant
time I went out to search my work. After 2 p.m. when’I came to my house, I
saw my victim daughter was crying. When I asked. my daughter and my
wife, they told me that when my daughter went to the house of accused

Daku, accused Daku hold her opening her pant.”

Witness Bijuli Gorait did not state=before him that “on being asked
the victim stated that at the relevant time she went to drink a glass of water
to the house of the accused. During that time accused dragged her inside his
home, fell her down in-the ‘bed and committed rape on her by opening her
pant, father of the victim,searched the accused in his house, but, he came to
know that the-accused fled towards the paddy field. Father of the victim
caught accused.from the paddy field and took him.”

Witness Bharati Bhumik did not state before him that “while I went to
faireprice shop, children playing there saw accused kept victim inside his
home. On being seeing them I also went to the house of the accused and on

opening the door I saw the accused was lying on the victim.”

Witness Swapna Kurmi did not state before him that “accused closed
her mouth by clothes, Siya saw the incident by opening the latch of the

door, she stated the incident to Bharati, Rine and Renuka.

Witness Siya Gorati did not state before him that “the door was

found closed when it was opened she saw accused lying upon Swapna and

 
Page 10 of 22

the clothes of lower portion of Swapna was found open and the accused was
also found half open and the accused was also found half open his pant and

then Swapna came out crying, she informed the matter to Renuka.”

19. PW- 10 Mrs Jyotishmita Sarmah, stated that on 11-11-2016 she was
posted at Tezpur as SDJM(S), Tezpur and on that day in reference to Tezpur
PS Case No. 2039/16 u/s 4 of POCSO Act, she has examined one witness i.e.
the victim, D/O Dilip Kurmi. She has recorded the statement of the victim u/s
164 Cr.P.C. in her court chamber in presence of Renuka Kurmi. The victim
made statement voluntarily and after recording her statement, she.has’ read
over the contents of the statement and on satisfaction, she,and her sister-in-
law Renuka put their thumb impression thereon. The witness.was identified
by WHG Biju Koch. Ext. 10 is the statement of the victim recorded u/s 164
Cr.P.C and Ext. 10(1) is her signature. Ext. 11<is ‘the jorder of learned CJM,
Sonitpur, Tezpur and Ext. 11(1) is the signature.of learned CJM, Sonitpur,
Tezpur. Ext. 11(2) is her order and Ext./11(3) is her signature.

In cross-examination she admitted that the women belong to
Adibashi community. She has‘not_put any question as to whether she could
speak Assamese or not«.Similarly, she has not put any question as to
whether she could speak or understand English or not. She has recorded her
statement in English. She has not given any certificate that the statement of
the victim was translated to English. According to statement, the place of

incident is in the house of the house of victim.

20. PW- 11 Dr. Pradip Kr. Barman stated that on 14-11-2016 he was at
Assam X-ray Clinic and Laboratory as a Radiologist (MD). On that day as
referred by Dr. T Handique of KCH, Tezpur one patient Ms Swapna Kurmi,
patient ID AXC 3073, female was duly examined by following procedure:

1. AP of lateral views of left wrist elbow, 2. Elbow joint and iliac
crest.
On examination, he found :

1. Union of epiphysis of lower end of radius and ulna are found

completed.

2. All epiphysis of the bones around the elbow joint have fused.

 
Page 11 of 22

3. Epiphysis of the iliac crest has appeared but not fused.

USG of whole abdomen:

Uterus is normal in size and shape. There is no gestational sact or
product of conception in the uterus.
Final impression: Age of the person under investigation appears to be
below eighteen years and normal USG with non gravid uterus. Ext. 4 is the
radiologist report and Ext. 4(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination he admitted that he has given his report after
ossification test.
21. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case: Defence plea is
of total denial while his statement is recorded u/s 313 Cr-P.C:
22. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution has
failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt: Firstly, there is only
one eye witness in this case. Secondly, there is vast discrepancy in
between the prosecution witnesses such as, according to FIR the incident
took place at about 3 p.m. of 10-11-2016On the other hand, PW 1, father
of the victim stated that the incident took place at about 12 to 2 p.m. Again
PW 2 admitted that the incident took place on forenoon on that day. On the
other hand, PW 4 admitted\that the incident took place at about 9/10 a.m.
The victim stated that the incident took place at the noon time. Thirdly,
there is also many™contradictions among the statement of prosecution
witnesses, Such.as, the victim PW 5 stated that when she went to the house
of the accused to have a glass of water accused took her inside the house by
gagging, her mouth, during that time accused closed the door. On the other
hand PW 7 Siya Gorait who stated that at the relevant time when she went
tothe house of the accused to bring clothes from his daughter Sarmile, the
door was found closed, by opening the door she entered into the house,
then she saw accused was slept with victim. Learned counsel for the accused
submitted that if the door was closed by the accused, how PW 7 entered into
the room by opening the door. Fourthly, there is no corroboration among
the statement of witnesses. Fifthly, accused was only suspected while he
was found in his room with the victim. Law is well settled suspicion however

may be gave cannot take place of evidence. Lastly, the victim was only 12

 
Page 12 of 22

years old at the time of incident. The incident took place on 10-11-2016 and
the victim was examined by doctor on 14-11-2016 after four days of
incident. The doctor PW 8 who examined the victim stated that there is no
sign and symptom suggestive of recent sexual intercourse, no mark of
violence seen on her body as well as on her private parts and age of the
victim is below 18 years. If a person forcefully committed rape upon a tender
aged girl she might have sustained injury not only in the private parts but
also in her body. But here in this case, the victim sustained no any injury“not

only in her private parts but also in her body.

23. On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor, »Sonitpur,
Tezpur submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the*case beyond all
shadow of doubt, as such required to be convictedunder the said section of
law. Learned Special Public Prosecutor also submitted that in fact there is no
enmity in between the accused and the complainant to file a false case. Even
if there is any strange relation between,the parties, it would not be expected
from the complainant to involve his own=minor daughter in such a hatred
cases.

Learned Special P.Ps again submitted that PW 1 and other witnesses
are close relatives of theewictim, so they are interested witnesses. To rely the
interested witnesses in_/convicting the accused, learned Special P.P.
submitted the case of Gali Venkataiah Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh
reported in=2008 Crli.L.J. 690. In regard to minor discrepancies, learned
Special’PP also submitted the case law of State of UP V. Krishna Master
& ors reported in 2010 Crl.L.J.3889.

24. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the learned

counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

25. After going through the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses, it is
seen except the victim, there is other eye witness to the incident. PW 7 Siya
Gorait who has also seen the incident. On being seen the incident said Siya
Gorait first informed about the matter to Renuka Kaki thereafter, she
reported the matter to her father. On being came to know her father

assaulted her. The victim stated that on the day of incident when she went

 
Page 13 of 22

to the house of the accused to have a glass of water accused took her inside
the room by gagging her mouth, closed the door, laid her down, opened her
clothes including pant, accused touched her private parts through his male
sexual organ. During that time Siya entered into the room by opening the
door and on being seen the incident she raised alarm. During that time
accused committed bad act by opening his half pant. Immediately, accused
fled away towards the paddy field. PW 7 Siya Gorait also stated that while
she went to the house of the accused to bring her clothes from the daughter
of the accused by opening the door she saw accused Daku was slept°over
the victim. She also noticed the clothes of lower portion of victimywas lifted
and accused was found in half opening pant. On being seen her,accused fled
away towards the paddy field. She immediately informed the matter to
Renuka mami. She was reported by victim that.while she went to have a
glass of water to the house of the accused, accused forcefully took her inside
the room and forcefully attempt to do‘bad act. Though the aforesaid
witnesses were exposed to long cross-examination the evidence as to while
PW 7 went to the house of the accused to collect her clothes from the
daughter of the accused and. opened the door she seen the accused person
was lying on the body of.the victim where half pant of the accused was
found half opened and. lower portion of the clothes of the victim was found

lifted has remained unchallenged.

26. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the FIR filed by the
informant on\11-11-2016 whereas the incident took place on 10-11-2016 but
the FIR.did not disclose as to any explanation for one day delay in lodging
the.same.

27. In state Vs. Gurmit Sing, the Hon'ble Apex Court, stated that —
“The court cannot over looked the fact that in sexual offence, delay in
lodging the FIR can be due to variety of reasons particularly the reluctant of
the prosecutrix or her family members to go to the police and complained
about the incident which concern the reputation of the prosecutrix and the
honour of her family. It is only after giving it a cool thought that a complaint

of sexual assault is generally lodged.”

 
Page 14 of 22

In the instant case, the complainant, PW 1 Sri Dilip Kurmi, the father
of the victim, filed the ejahar on 11-11-2016 on being came to know about
the incident from her victim daughter though the incident took place on the
previous day i.e. on 10-11-2016 at about 3 p.m. Here in the present case
the informant lodged the ejahar on the very next day of the incident when
he came to know about the incident. Therefore, simply one night delay of
lodging the ejahar cannot be fatal to the prosecution case as the prosecution
case is proved by not only the victim witness but also by another eye
witness and reported witnesses. Under such circumstances, one night delay

in lodging the ejahar cannot be a ground to discard the prosecution story.

28. Learned counsel for the accused argued that the victim_is a minor girl
and changed her version in different times, before the police, before the
Magistrate and even in the Court as suchy her statement cannot be

considered to convict the accused.

29. Here in the present case, as details discussed herein before, the
victim stated that while the victim went to the house of the accused to drink
a glass of water accused took her inside his room by gagging her mouth,
thereafter, laid her down, opened her clothes, touches her private parts
through his male sexual organ. While the PW 7 suddenly came to the house
of the accused by opening the door she seen the accused by half opening his
pant lying upon the body of the victim where the lower portion of victim’s
clothes were also found lifted. Therefore, it is not that only the victim stated

about.the incident but PW 7 also seen the incident.

Besides, it appears that the statement of the victim is corroborated
with the statement made before the police and also before the learned
Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Though she has been exposed to long cross-
examination but her evidence as to at the relevant time when she went to
the house of the accused to drink a glass of water, accused took her inside
his room by gagging her mouth, thereafter, laid her down, opened her
clothes, touches her private parts through his male sexual organ has

remained unchallenged.

 
Page 15 of 22

30. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution has
failed to prove the age of the victim as they have not been seized any school
certificate or Birth certificate of victim to ascertain the age. Therefore, the

case cannot be stated to be fallen under POCSO Act.

31. It is true that in the present case there is no documents like Birth
certificate or age certificate or any certificate issued by the School authority
where the victim last studied or any certificate issued by local Panchayat etc.
to prove the victim that she was 12 years of age at the time of incident. But
the PW 8, the Doctor who opined that the age of the victim is bloe.18 years
of age. The victim was examined on 18-04-2017 who stated that.age was 12
years. That has not been challenged by defence at anyspoint of time.

Therefore, it can safely be held that the victim was a minor.

32. In the case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs = State, represented by
the Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD) No.98 of 2015, it was held
that it is true that primary evidence to prove the date of birth of the
individual may be preferably the birth certificate. But, it cannot be said that
in absence of birth certificate, the date of birth cannot be proved. When the
age of the individual is not disputed, the question of proving the same does
not arise at all. It is the settled law that a fact in issue or any relevant fact or
any fact relevant:to the issue, which is disputed by the adverse party alone,
needs proof.<If itis not disputed, there is no need to lead any evidence in
proof of the.said admitted fact.

33... ‘In this case, the victim and her parents categorically stated the age
of the victim was about 12 years from the very beginning of the case, at the
time of commission of offence, besides during cross-examination, the same
has not been disputed at all by the accused side. Thus, the evidence of PWs

1 and PW 5 in respect of age of the victim remains unchallenged.

34. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the material
particulars with regard to the incident that on the day of incident, while the
victim went to the house of the accused to drink a glass of water, accused

forcefully took her inside his room, laid her down in bed, opened her clothes,

 
Page 16 of 22

touches her private parts through his male sexual organ, while PW 7
suddenly came to collect her clothes, she also witnessed that accused was
found half necked lying over the body of the victim wherein the clothes of
lower portion of victim was also lifted. Immediately, said PW 7 reported the
matter to Renuka Kaki, Renuka Kaki informed the matter to the mother of
the victim, on being asked the victim by her mother she reported the whole
incident to her mother, while her father came to know about the incident,
her father assaulted her. The victim also made such statement before “the
1.0. while her statement was recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C. and she has~also
made such statement before the learned Magistrate when her statement was
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Though the victim has been vigorously cross-
examined but the aforesaid evidence that at the relevant,time while she
went to the house of the accused to drink a glass,of water, accused
forcefully took her inside his room, laid her down‘in bed, opened her clothes,
touches her private parts through his,‘male sexual organ, while PW 7
suddenly came to collect her clothes; she also witnessed that accused was
found half necked lying over the«body of the victim wherein the clothes of
lower portion of victim was alsovlifted has remained unchallenged. There is
nothing in the evidence of,said PWs that accused had any enmity or quarrel
with the complainantto file the case falsely against the accused. Therefore,

defence of false allegation is not made out.

35. | TheHon’ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan Vs. Babu Muna
(2013) 4 SCC 206, has observed as under :-

“9. We do not have any slightest hesitation in accepting the broad
submission of Mr. Jain that the conviction be based on the sole testimony of
the prosecutrix, it found to be worthy of credence and reliable and for that
no corroboration is required. It has often been said that oral testimony can
be clarified into three categories, namely, (i) wholly reliable, (ii) whole
unreliable and (iii) neither wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable. In case of
wholly reliable testimony of single witness, the conviction can be found
without corroboration. This principle applies with greater in terms in case the

nature of offence is such that it is committed in seclusion. In case

 
Page 17 of 22

prosecution is based on wholly unreliable testimony of single witness but the

court has no option to acquit the accused.”

36. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of accused
is not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered much as
prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of all reasonable
doubts. However, in a case under POCSO Act, the situation is not so. In this
regard, it will be worthwhile to refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30
of POCSO Act.

37. U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain offence
is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain offences and
Same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences - Where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting’to commit any offence
u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may

be, unless the contrary is proved:

38. Similarly, Sections30.0f POCSO Act mandates that the Special Court
shall draw a presumption/of the existence of culpable mental state of the
accused where-culpable mental state is required on the part of the accused.
Section 30.reads as under:

“30»Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any prosecution
for any*offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the
part_of the accused, the Special Court shall presume that existence of such
mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that
he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in
that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved only
when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not

merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probabilities.

 
Page 18 of 22

39. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be recorded on
the sole testimony of a child witness or not? Such issue was dealt by the
Hon’ble Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of U.P., (2008) 16 SCC,
which are reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On the
contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may testify —
all persons shall be competent to testify unless the Court considers that they
are prevented from understanding the questions put to them, or from giving
rational answers to those questions, by tender years, extreme’ old age,
disease, whether of body or mind, or any other cause of the same kind.”

40. _ A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if-he or she has
intellectual capacity to understand questions and\give rational answers
thereto. The evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected per se,
but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with close
scrutiny and only on being convinced,about the quality thereof and reliability

can record conviction, based thereon.

41. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra,
(1997) 5 SCC 341, it-was.held that a child witness if found competent to
depose to the facts and. reliable one such evidence could be the basis of
conviction. In other words, even in the absence of oath the evidence of a
child witness, can be considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act provided that
such witness\is able to understand the questions and able to give rational
answer'thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof would
depend upon the circumstances of each case. The only precaution which the
Court should bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness is
that the witness must be a reliable one and his/her demeanour must be like

any other competent witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored.

42. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs — State
of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on the question
whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence primarily rests with the

trial Judge who notices his manners, his apparent possessions or lack of

 
Page 19 of 22

intelligence, and the said Judge may resort to any examination which will
tend to disclose his capacity and intelligence as well as his understanding of

the obligation of an oath.

43. In the present case, at the time of examination of the victim, some
questions were put to her and she replied the same without any hesitation
and after confirming the value of oath, she was administered oath, then this
court recorded her statement. Apart from that, other witnesses including the
eye witness PW 7 and reported witnesses PW 3 and PW 4, all) were

supported the evidence of victim PW 5.

Here in the present case as discussed above, the evidence as to at
the relevant time while the victim went to the house of the\accused to drink
a glass of water accused forcefully took her inside the.room, closed the door,
opened her clothes, touches her private parts. through his male sexual
organs by opening his half pant in the mean, time while PW 7 came to the
house of the accused to bring back«her clothes from the daughter of the
accused while opening the door she noticed accused with half necked lying
upon the body of the victim, and.lower portion of clothes of the victim was

also found lifted.

44. On appreciation of the evidence given by the victim, her friend PW 7,
PW 1 father of the:victim and other independent witnesses i.e. PW 3, PW 4
and 6, it comes to the conclusion that it is the accused who attempt to
commit sexual assault to the victim. The doctor clearly stated that there is
no any*sign and symptoms of recent sexual intercourse and no mark of
violence was seen on her body as well as in her private parts. Therefore, I
think that the prosecution has failed to prove the ingredients of section 8 of
the POCSO Act.

45. In regard to the age of the victim, it appears that as stated above,
the victim as well as parents of the victim all were stated that the victim is
about 12 years of age but there is no documentary proof as to her age.
Under such circumstances, it cannot be sated to be attempted to commit the

offence of aggravated sexual assault.

 
Page 20 of 22

46. Considering the aforesaid aspect, the offence of the accused cannot
be stated to be attempted to commit aggravated sexual assault but attempt
to commit sexual assault. Therefore, accused Sri Daku Bhakta @ Dulen is
acquitted from the alleged charge u/s 8 of the POCSO Act but accused Sri
Daku Bhakta @ Dulen is convicted u/s 18 of the POCSO Act.
47. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he praying for
leniency stating that he has his wife, children and he is the only bread earner
of his family and he has been in custody for long time, hence, praying*for
leniency.
48. I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well as learned
Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur.
49. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the-settled law that while
deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required. that the Court should
strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and _ mitigating
circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the crime and
mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case, so far as the
aggravating circumstances are~concerned, a minor girl was sexually
exploited. The wound caused ‘tothe girl is not only to the body but also to
the mind of not only to the victim but that of entire family members, but
considering the mitigating circumstances, the accused was hardly 56 years of
age at the time of the incident. It is not brought to the notice of this Court
that before this incident, the accused had committed any other offence.
There is Jikelihood of his reformation, but the statute u/s.18 of POCSO Act a
punishment for any description provided for the offence, for a term which
may.extend to one-half of the imprisonment for life or, as the case may be,
one-half of the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence or
with fine or with both.

ORDER

50. I convict the accused Sri Daku Bhakta @ Dulen u/s. 18 of POCSO Act
and sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 1 (one ) year 6 (six) months
and to pay a fine of Rs. 5000/- (Rupees five thousand only) in default

Rigorous Imprisonment for 1(one) month.

 
Page 21 of 22

It appears from the record that the accused has been in custody
since 11-11-2016.
The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from the

period of imprisonment, imposed on him.

51. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement of
witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an amount
of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees twenty thousand) only is awarded as compensation.
The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority, Sonitpur;, Tezpur be

asked to give the compensation to the father of the victim’ after proper

enquiry.

52. Acopy of this Judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost and
a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur, as per
provisions of law.

Given under my Hand and. Seal of this Court on this the 6™ day of
April, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictated.and)corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
3 eo Se eT

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8
Prosecution Witness No.9
Prosecution Witness No.10

Prosecution Witness No.11

Exhibit 1,2,3,4

Exhibit 6
Exhibit 7
Exhibit 8
Exhibit 9
Exhibit 11

Page 22 of 22

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

:- Sri Dilip Kurmi, complainant

- Smt. Bijuli Gorait

- Smt. Rina Karmakar,

‘< Smt. Bharati Bhumik

:- Victim.

I- Sri Munna Kurmi

= Smti Siya Gorait

- Dr. Tutumoni Handique,

= Sri Lakhi Prasad, Kachari, 1.0.

:- Smt. J. Borah,;,Sub Judicial Magistrate,
Titabor.

I Dr. Pradip Kr. Barman, Radiologist.

EXHIBITS.

:- \ Medical report, Urine, vaginal smear,
Ultra sound & X-ray reports.

- Ejahar

- sketch map

- 164 Cr..P.C. statement of the vicitm
' Chargesheet.

- Order of learned CJM, Sonitpur.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
