IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,

 

Special Judge,

Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 06(DH)/2017.

(G.R. Case No.953/2016, Dhemaji P.S. Case No.380/2016 Under Section
366(A)/511 of the Indian Penal Code R/W Sec. 8 of POCSO Act)
The State of Assam
- Versus >
Shri Maniram Das ................. Accused Person
S/O Lt. Ananda Das,
R/O VIIl- Pachali Kochgaon,
P.S. Dhemaji,

Dist.- Dhemaji.

Committing Magistrate:- Shri P.C. Kalita,
Chief Judicial Magistrate,

Dhemaji.

Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor a cccecen eee For the State

Shri Pranjal Pratim Neog, Advocate , .......... For the Accused
Dates of prosecution evidence : 09.05.2017, 01.08.2017,
30.08.2017,24.10.2017,

02.01.2018
Date of arguments : 13-03-2018
Date of Judgment : 26-03-2018.

JUDGMENT

‘ Prosecution case in a nutshell is that on 31.10.2016
complainant Jadab Mondal lodged a written complaint with Dhemaji P.S.
alleging inter alia that on the same date at about 6 A.M. while his
daughter Miss Titu (real name conceal) aged about 11 years was returning
home from daily market accused Moniram Das attempted to kidnap her
from the road at Jamaguri Pachali. The local people apprehended the
accused and handed over to the police.

2. On receipt of the ejahar police registered a case vide
Dhemaji P.S. Case No.380/2016 U/s. 366(A)/511 of I.P.C read with
section 8 of POCSO Act. Police also started investigation and on
completion of investigation submitted Charge-sheet against the accused-
Moniram Das u/s 366(A)/511 of I.P.C read with Section 8 of Act.

3. The case came up before the learned J.M.F.C., Dhemaji.
Process issued for appearance of the accused and on appearance of the
accused learned J.M.F.C. Dhemaji furnished necessary copies to the

accused and committed the case to this Court for trial.

4. On receipt of record and on appearance of the accused this
Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing both sides
framed charge U/s. 8 of POCSO Act and read over and explained to the
accused to which he pleaded not guilty.
0 \%
\

Special Judge,
Dhemat.

5. Prosecution in order to prove its case examined 7 witnesses
in all. Accused is examined u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence case was of total

denial. Defence adduce no evidence whatsoever.
6.Points for determination :

That you, on 31.10.2016 at 6 AM at near Balisor Joypur Daily
Market under Dhemaji Police Station committed sexual assault upon Miss
Nilima Borsaikia a minor by touching her breast and private parts and
thereby committed an offence punishable U/s.8 of POCSO Act, 2012.

7. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard

arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof :

 

8. PW1 is the victim. She stated that she is aged about 11
years. Hence she was examined without oath. Before examination this
Court tested her capacity to understand by putting some questions to the
victim. After being satisfied the Court recorded her statement without
oath. The victim stated that accused Moniram Das was known to her. On
the date of occurrence she had gone to watch ‘Bhawna’ organized during
‘Kali Puja’. At night she stayed in the house of her uncle Sahdev Mondal.
Next day while she was coming back home accused Moniram Das met her
on road and said that he would drop her. Initially, he refused to go with
him but he forcibly took her on his bike and brought to his house. She
also stated that the accused made her sit on a chair. Thereafter he
touched her cheek and breast. Then the people of his locality and the
family members came there and one of them gave her beating and she
was made to kneel down. They also threatened to take her to the police
station. The public caught them and brought before the police. She was
medically examined and she gave statement before the Magistrate. Ext.1
is her statement U/s. 164 of Cr.P.C. Ext.1(1) is her signature.
In cross-examination PW1 denied that she did not state
before the police that the accused did not do bad thing with her. She also
stated that one lady in the house of the accused took her to the police

station. She denied that a false case has been filed against him.

9. PW2 is Jaydev Mandal, father of the victim. He deposed
that the occurrence took place during ‘Kali Puja’. At the relevant time his
daughter stayed in the house of elder her brother. Further has stated that
while she was returning home in the next morning the accused grabbed
her from behind and took away on his bicycle. He took her to Pachali and
there people caught them. One person named Dharma asked him if his
daughter was missing he contacted his elder brother who told him that his
daughter had left his house. He went to Pachali. There he found a crowd
of people and also saw the accused and his daughter in midst of the
crowd. One Arun Mandal informed the police and police apprehended
them. Then he filed a complaint. He also stated that at the time of
occurrence his daughter was reading in Class-VII, she was aged about 11

years.

In cross-examination he stated that he does not know the
name of the person against who he filed this case. He denied the defence
suggestion that daughter had gone to the house of the accused of her

own accord.

10. PW3 is Muktia Ariya. His evidence is that the occurrence
took place about one year back. On the date of occurrence at about 8
P.M. he went to a nearby shop to buy some articles. While returning back
he saw a big crowd at Pachali. He stopped there and he saw the accused
and the victim. The people asked him whether he knew the victim to
which he replied in the affirmative. Then he made phone call to her
father. Police was informed and the victim and accused were brought to
the police station. The people at Pachali apprehended the victim and the

accused.
In cross he stated that the complainant is not related to him.

3, PW4 Sauhan Mandal has deposed that the complainant is his
uncle and victim is his cousin. The occurrence took place about one year
back. His uncle told him that his daughter was kidnapped from the ‘Kali
Puja’ ground and the local people apprehended the accused and the

victim.

id: PW5 Arun Mandal stated that the occurrence took place
about one year back. On the date of occurrence in the morning while he
came to Dhemaji he saw a big crowd at Pachali. He came near the people
and found the accused and the victim detained by the people. He
informed the complainant about the incident. On being asked the victim
told him that the accused on the pretext of dropping at her house took

her on his bicycle elsewhere.

In cross he denied defence suggestion that the victim did

not tell him about the incident.

13. PW6 Dr. Debajit Doloi state that on 31.10.2016 at around
1.50 PM he was at Dhemaji Civil Hospital as M&H.O-I. On that day he has
examined a girl aged about 11 years named Miss Miss Titu, in reference to
requisition from Dhemaji PS, Dhemaji escorted and identified by WHG
Riva Baruah of Dhemaji PS. On examination he has not found any injury
on the body surface of Miss Miss Titu.

Opinion -in his opinion Miss Miss Titu is both physically fit
and mentally is normal. He has not found any injury mark (both recent
and old) on her body surface and she was disposed.

14. PW7 Md. Idrish Ali stated that on 31.10.2016 he was posted
at Dhemaji PS as Attach Officer. On that day one unknown person
informed OC Dhemaji over telephone that one minor girl and a boy were

apprehended at Jamaguri Pachali under Dhemaji PS. Accordingly GD Entry
J

ES

i

S
a

a

was made in the Police Station vide No. 1131 dated 31.10.2016. He took
up preliminary investigation as per instruction/endorsement by OC
Dhemaji PS. Accordingly, he went to Jamaguri Pachali and he found the
body and the girl being apprehended by local people. The boy and the girl
were introduced as Maniram Das and Smt. Miss Titu respectively. He took
the boy and the girl in custody and brought them to police station. He got
the victim girl medically examined. The father of the victim lodged a
written complaint in the police station. Accordingly, a case was registered
vide Dhemaji PS Case No. 380/16 U/s. 366(A)/511 IPC R/W Section 8 of
POCSO Act. He was entrusted to take up the investigation of the case.
Accordingly, he recorded statement of complainant and the victim. He also
visited the place of occurrence and prepared a sketch map, recorded the
statement of witnesses U/s. 161 of Cr.P.C. The victim was given in jimma
of her father Jaydev Mandal. The accused was formally arrested and
forwarded to judicial custody. He also had the statement of victim U/s.
164 of Cr.P.C. recorded before Magistrate. He collected Medical Report
and statement U/s. 164 Cr.P.C. On completiton of investigation he
submitted charge sheet against the accused Maniram Das U/s. 366(A)/511
IPC R/W Section 8 of POCSO Act. Ext.2 is ejahar and Ext.2(2) signature of
O/C Lambit Gogoi which he knows. Ext.4 is the relevant G.D. Entry in the
diary. Ext.5 is sketch map. Ext.5(1) is his signature. Ext.6 is charge sheet.
Ext. 6(1) is his signature.

APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE :

15. From the discussions of evidence on record, it appears that
all the PWs including the victim stated that the victim was found in
company of the accused and the people of a_ particular locality
apprehended them. The victim PW1 has specifically stated in her evidence
that the accused forcibly kidnapped her from the road and took her to his
house and physically abused her by touching her cheek and breast. PW1,
the victim, who was also produced before the Magistrate gave her
statement before the Magistrate U/s. 164 Cr.P.C. In her statement 164
Cr.P.C. also she stated that she knew the accused and also stated that on
the date of occurrence at about 6 AM while she was coming home from
her uncle’s house on the road the accused grabbed her and forcibly took
her away on his cycle. She also stated that the accused took her to his
house and he touched her breast and cheek. The victim was also
medically examined. The 1.0 (PW7) testified that the victim and the
accused was apprehended by the local people at Pachali.

16. I have scrutinized the evidence on record very carefully. It
reveals from the record that the ‘ejahar’ was lodged on the date of
occurrence itself. I have also looked into the evidence of PWs in cross-
examination part. I find that the victim is cross-examined by the defence.
She denied defence suggestion that the accused did not abuse her
physically. So far other PWs are concerned, nothing useful has been
elicited from them by the defence. I find the evidence of the PWs
consistent, convincing and reliable. It is a case of sexual assault and the
victim is minor and the victim has also given statement both in initial stage
and during trial in natural way and I find nothing to disbelieve her

testimony.

While arguing the case before me on behalf of he accused
the learned counsel for the accused submitted that there are contradiction
and discrepancy in the evidence of the PWs and also contended that the
testimony of the victim who is minor cannot be acted upon without any
eye witnesses corroboration. However in the facts and circumstances of
the case, I find it difficult to accept the submission made by the defence
counsel, as the evidence of the victim is found to be consistent and

convincing.

ea It is well settled that the testimony of victim of sexual
assault has to be weighed with utmost care and sensitivity. It is also well
settled that the conviction can be based solely on the testimony of the
prosecutrix or victim, if it inspires confidence.
18. Before I give my finding let me see whether the evidence on
record constitute offence of sexual assault as defined U/s. 7 of POCSO
Act.

Section 7 sexual assault — Whoever, with sexual intent
touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other
person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical

contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.

In the instant case I have thread bare discussed the
evidence and also the circumstances brought on record by prosecution
side. I have also gone through provisions of Section 7 which is defines
sexual assault. Taking into consideration the entire fact materials I find
that prosecution has been able to bring on record ample evidence to

prove the charge against the accused.

19. In view of the above discussion, I find that the prosecution
has not been able to prove the charge of sexual assault punishable U/s. 8
of POCSO Act against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.

ORDER:

20. In the result, I find the accused Maniram Das guilty U/s. 8 of
POCSO Act. Accordingly, he is convicted thereunder.

os Heard the accused person on the point of charge u/s.
235(2) of Cr.P.C.

on The accused pleaded for mercy.

23, Considering all the facts and circumstances and the nature of

the offence I am inclined to award the accused minimum sentence of 3
(three) years and fine. Accordingly, the accused is sentenced to undergo
R.I. for 3 (three) years and to pay a fine of Rs.1,000/-(one thousand) in
default to undergo R.I. for another 1 (one) month.
24. Set-off of the period of detention.

25. As regards, compensation U/s. 357(A) Cr.P.C. I find that it

is not a fit case to grant compensation to the victim.

26. A copy of judgment free of cost be given to the accused
person.

27. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.

28. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 26th

day of March, 2018.

(¢
(3 YW
( oe !
eosetat faagele9e:

maji.
10

Appendix:

Prosecution Witnesses

P.W. 1
P.W. 2
P.W. 3
P.W. 4
P.W.5
P.W. 6
PW- 7

- Miss Titu (real name conceal).
- Jaydev Mandal

- Muktia Ariya

- Sauhan Mandal

- Arun Mandal

- Dr. Debajit Doloi

- Md. Idrish Ali, I/O.

Defence Witnesses:-None.

Prosecution Exhibits

Exhibit-1
Exhibit 1(1)
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 2(1)
Exhibit 2(2)
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 3(1)
Exhibit-4
Exhibit-5
Exhibit-5 (1)
Exhibit 6
Exhibit 6(1)

- statement of victim U/s. 164 of Cr.P.C

- signature of victim

- Ejahar.

- Signature ofJaydev Mondol

— Signature of O/C Lambit Gogoi.

- Medical Report,
- Signature of Dr. Debajit Doloi,

- G.D. Entry

- Sketch map

- Signature of Idrish Ali, I/O.

- Charge sheet.
- Signature of Idrish Ali, 1/0,

Defence Exhibits :- None.

fon
( S. Das )

spec ydoe

pertai.
