1.

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sessions (Spl.) Case No.20/2015
U/S 342/376 IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act

Present : Mr. D. K. Das
Sessions Judge, Morigaon.

State of Assam

Vs.
SriSanjib Nath haa Accused
Date of Charge :- 16.10.2015.
Date of recording evidence :- 02.11.2016.
Date of Argument :- 06.12.2016.
Date of Judgment :- 08.12.2016.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State:- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused:- Mr. P. R. Borah, Ld. Advocate,

JUDGMENT

In this case, the prosecution has alleged that a 12 (twelve) years old girl
fell a victim to sexual assault at the hand of accused. The accused is one Sri
Sanjib Nath of village Habibarangabari, P.S. Mikirbheta, Dist. Morigaon
(Assam). The informant Sri Rama Kanta Borkakati is also a resident of this
village. He is the father of the victim, Miss X (the real name of the victim kept
conceal to save her from infamy). According to the prosecution, on 07.06.2015
in the morning hour at around 6.30 A.M., the above-named accused by luring
the victim took her to his shop and by gagging her mouth subjected her to
sexual intercourse. The victim cried out in panic. Then, on hearing hue & cry,
Purnananda Borkakoti, the brother of the informant rushed there and he
rescued the girl from the grip of the accused. On the very day, the informant
went to Mikirbheta P.S. and he lodged an F.I.R. On the basis of which, the O/C
Mikirbheta P.S. registered a case vide Mikirbheta P.S. Case No.210/15, U/s 376
(2) (i)/420/342 IPC, read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

The investigation was set in motion. During the course of
investigation, the I.O. visited the place of occurrence, examined the victim as
well as other material witnesses and also got the victim medically examined
and got her statement recorded U/s 164 Cr.P.C. The I.O. arrested the accused
and produced before the learned Court below, wherefrom, he was remanded to
judicial custody. Thereafter, the I.O. collected the medical report and upon
completion of investigation, he submitted charge-sheet against the above-
named accused with allegation of offences punishable U/s 376 (2) (i)/420/342
of IPC, read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. At the time of submitting the charge-
sheet, the accused was languishing in jail hajot. Subsequently, he was let off
on court bail and thereafter, the present accused attended before the Ld. Court
and he was furnished with copies of relevant documents as mandated U/s 207
Cr.P.C. Thereafter, the Ld. Court below committed the case to this Court by
finding it to be exclusively triable by this Court. On receipt of the case record
and after having heard Ld. Counsel of both sides and basing upon materials on
record my learned predecessor framed charges U/s 342/376 of IPC, read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act, which were read over and explained to the accused

to which he pleaded innocence and claimed to be tried.

2. Point for determination :

(i) In the instant case, it is to be determined that on the eventful day
i.e. on 07.06.2015 at around 6.30 A.M. at village Habibarangabari
under Mikirbheta P.S. in the district of Morigaon, the accused
wrongfully confined the victim and thereby he committed rape upon
12 years old, a minor girl and thereafter, she was subjected to

penetrative sexual assault against her will.

3. In this case prosecution has examined only 2 (two) PWs, the most
material witnesses of this case, the informant as PW-1 and the victim as
PW-2. But their evidence does not support the prosecution case on material

aspects. In such circumstances, prosecution was not willing to examine the
remaining witnesses and at the instance of the prosecution its evidence
stands closed. Having found no incriminating materials against the accused,
the examination of accused as warranted U/s 313 Cr.P.C. was dispensed

with for ends of justice. The accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5 In this case, it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful
day the above-named accused coaxed the victim and took her to his shop
and by gagging her mouth committed rape on her and at that time, the
victim was 12 years old girl.

To prove this fact, the prosecution initially examined PW-1, the
informant. He in his evidence has stated that the victim Miss- X is his
daughter and the accused is also known to him. The occurrence took place
on 07.06.2015 at about 6.30 A.M. He has further stated that he had a shop
near his house and on the day of occurrence his daughter, the victim Miss-
X came to sweep the floor of the shop and she swept the garbage in front
of the shop of the accused, which was adjacent to his shop. Then, the
accused rebuked his daughter using filthy language. So, he (PW-1) filed a
criminal case against the accused. In his cross-examination, he has stated
that he has not seen the actual occurrence and the accused did not use any
indecent word to his daughter, the victim. PW-1 stated that the accused

simply abused her and stopped her to throw the garbage towards his shop.

6. PW-2, the victim girl, she in her evidence has stated that the
informant is her father. On the particular day, she went to sweep the floor
of their shop situated near their house and while, she sweeping the floor of
the shop some of the garbage were swept away towards the shop of the
accused and then, the accused got offended and quarreled with her. She in
her cross-examination has stated that the accused did not behave her

indecently.
Thus, we have found that none of these two vital PWs (i.e.
complainant and victim) uttered a single word as regards sexual assault

being allegedly committed by the accused.

7. Considering the evidence on record, we have found that the
material part of the prosecution case remained un-substantiated, as the
victim herself stated that the accused did nothing wrong to her. So, we
have found that the most material witness of this case as PW-1 & PW-2 did
not support the prosecution allegation in its material aspects. Section 232
Cr.P.C. mandates an acquittal of the accused from an offence, which states
that “ If, after taking the evidence for the prosecution, examining the
accused and hearing the prosecution and the defence on the point, the
Judge considers that there is no evidence that the accused committed the

offence, the Judge shall record an order of acquittal.”

8. In view of the above discussion and in view of Section 232 Cr.P.C.,
I have found that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the
accused beyond any reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused is not
found guilty for the offences punishable U/s 342/376 of IPC, read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act and as such, he is acquitted and set at liberty.

Judgment is delivered and pronounced in the open Court on this 8" day

of December, 2016 under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Sessions Judge

Morigaon.
APPENDIX
A. Prosecution witness

1. PW-1 :- Sri Ramakanta Borkakati,
2. PW-2 :- Miss Karishma Borkakati,
B. Defence witness : Nil.
C. Prosecution Exhibit :
1. Ext.1 :- the ejahar.

D. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Morigaon.
