   
 
 

> fh
=

an y "4 IN THE SPECIAL COURT, BAKSA ssesermeereeennenmmmmninimnia: AT MUSHALPUR
°° Present : Shri C. Das
Judge, Special Court
Baksa, Mushalpur

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO.30/2018(OLD NO.78/17)
u/s 4 of POCSO Act
State
-versus-

Md. Abdul Mazid

.... Accused

Appearance:
For the State : Mr. R. Chetry, Public Prosecutor, Baksa

For the accused : Mr. T. Sarma, Advocate

Date of evidence recorded : 9.7.18, 9.8.18, 13.9.18, 14.11.18, 6.3.19

3.7.19
Date of argument :31.8.19
Date of judgment :13.9.19
JUDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution briefly, is that on 29.5.17, the

\ court complainant Ms. Sayera Bibi lodged the FIR before Officer-in-charge of Barama

police station, alleging inter-alias that on 28.5.17, at about 6.30 pm., the accused
Bakss

took away her 13 years old daughter/ victim girl forcibly From in front of her house
by gagging the mouth. The accused thereafter, took the victim girl towards under a
bamboo bush after crossing a paddy field and committed sexual intercourse with
the victim girl at the night and on next day at about 3.30 am, the accused dropped

the victim girl near her house.
  

The police accordingly, registered the Barama PS. Case No.78/2017

” and started the investigation. During the investigation, the I/O visited the place of

occurrence, drew up its sketch map, examined the witnesses and sent the victim
girl For medical examination as well as, for recording her statement u/s 164 CrPC.
\/O arrested the accused person. Further, (/O collected the medical report of the
victim girl. At the end of the investigation, \/O having found a prima-facie case well
established, submitted the charge-sheet against the accused to Face trial in the

court.

3. The accused when appeared in the court in response to issue of
summons, he was furnished with the relevant copy of the case. After hearing of the
parties, the charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act, was framed against the accused. The
charge is read over and explained to the accused person who pleaded not guilty

and claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution during the trial, examined as many as, 6(six)
witnesses including M/O and 1/O to support its case. The accused in his statement
recorded u/s 313 CrPC., denied all incriminating circumstances appeared against
him in the evidence. However, the accused declined to adduce any evidence in

defence. The argument of the parties was heard at length.
POINT FOR DETERMINATION :

S, Whether on 28.5.17 at about 6.30 pm., at Mahkharia under Barama
police station, the accused committed penetrative sexual intercourse with the

victim girl (name withheld) who is the minor daughter of the informant Ms. Sayera
Bibi ;

DECISION AND REASON THEREFORE :

6. Learned Public Prosecutor during the argument, submitted that in
the case sexual offence, the testimony of the victim is important For just decision of
the case as well as, for recording a conviction order and there cannot be a ground
to disbelieve the version of the victim person since she is not an accomplice with
the accused. He submitted further that in the case, the evidence of the victim is
corroborated by other prosecution witnesses and they have able to bring home the

charge against the accused. Therefore, the accused is liable to be punished as per
   
  
 

t

ae

tees

r Mand
8 _
: oy law, he maintained.

ee
7. Per contra, learned counsel for the accused submitted that there are
several contradictions appeared in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses and
as such, their credibility is under doubt. He submitted that in criminal trial, the duty
of the prosecution to adduce good and reliable evidence of the witnesses to prove
the facts of the case by discarding all sorts of doubt. If there is doubt, the accused
is bound to get benefit thereof. He submitted that it is a Fact that the prosecution
could not prove its against beyond all sort of reasonable doubt. Hence, the accused

is entitled to get the benefit of doubt.

8. After hearing the above submissions from the learned counsel of
both sides, it is necessary to go through the evidence on record. It appears that
PW1 is the informant Ms. Sayera Bibi who filed the ejahar. She stated that the
victim girl is her daughter. The victim girl was 12 years old at the time of
occurrence. She stated that on the fateful day, she went to the house of her
neighbour to bring back her daughter. But she could not trace out her daughter. In
the meantime, she came to know that the accused was also, missing from the
house. She came to know that the accused took away the victim girl. But the
parents of the accused denied the same. Accordingly, she went to the Secretary of
the village to lodge a complaint. But the Secretary refused to consider her
complaint in a local bichar. Hence, she Filed the ejahar before the police. The police
recovered the victim girl and arrested the accused. The victim was taken to the

court to record her statement and also, medically examined.

9. In the cross-examination, PW1 stated that she did not see the
accused taking away her victim daughter. She denied the suggestion of the defence
that she did not state to the police earlier that when her daughter was missing, she
went to the house of the accused and on denial of the parents of the accused, she
went to the Secretary for a bichar.

10. PW2 Meser Ali stated that PW1 is his wife while the victim is his
cout daughter. At the time of occurrence, the victim girl was 13 years of age. He stated
5 ge pusn sens Further that on the fateful day, at about 8.30 pm., when he came to his home, he
gars? saw that PW1 and his elder daughter were weeping. On his inquiry, PW1 stated him

that the victim girl was missing from home. Accordingly, he searched For the victim
but could not trace her out. On next day, at about 5 am., the victim girl came to his

home. The victim reported to PW1 that the accused took her away by gagging her
  
 

Bee ey
CAs

so mouth and raped by the accused. On hearing the occurrence, he went to the house
~ of the accused and met the father of the accused. But the Father of the accused
denied any involvement of the accused. He could not Find out the accused in the
house. Hence, he went to the Secretary of the village; namely; Shariful but he could
not settle the matter. Thereafter, he went to the police and filed the ejahar. The
police sent the victim girl for medical examination and to record her statement in
the court.

11. In the cross-examination, PW2 stated that the house of the accused

is adjacent to his house and he used to go through the courtyard of the accused.

12. PW3 is the victim girl. Her name is withheld due to bar of law. She
stated that the accused is resided near her house. On the fateful day, the accused
called her to his house. Accordingly, in the evening, she went to the house of the
accused. When she reached the house of the accused, he pulled her towards nearby
bamboo bush by gagging her mouth. Then the accused after pulled her down on
the ground, removed her under garments and committed rape on her. The accused
kept her near the bamboo bush for the whole night and in the early morning, the
accused dropped her near her house. PW1 saw her standing. She reported the
entire incident to PW1. Hence, PW1 went to the house of the accused and inquired
about the incident to the father of the accused. But the Father of the accused
misbehaved with PW1. Hence, PW1 Filed the case before the police. The police
inquired about the incident from her and sent her for medical examination and to

record her statement in the court.

13. In the cross-examination, the victim girl stated that she did not use
the courtyard of the accused for ingress and outgress. She denied the suggestion
that she did not state to the police earlier that on the Fateful day in the evening the
accused called her to his house and when she reached the house of the accused, he
pulled her towards a bamboo bush by gagging her mouth. She did not raise alarm at
the place of occurrence as well as, when the accused pulled her towards a bamboo
2 court bush.
yu808 OF nom
aaks3 14, The evidence of PW4 Hamid Ali is that on the fateful day, he heard
that the accused committed rape on the victim girl. Accordingly, PW1 filed the case.

15. In the cross-examination, PW4 stated that PW1 used to go through
the courtyard of the accused. The accused tried to prevent PW1 to use his
 

held for the same.

16. The evidence of 1/0 PWS Dewan Rahijuddin Ahmed is that on
29.5.17 while he was posted at Barama police station, PW1 lodged the ejahar and
accordingly, O/C registered a case and endorsed him to investigate the case. He
proved the ejahar vide Ext.1. during the investigation, he examined the
complainant and visited the place of occurrence and drew up its sketch map vide
Ext.2. he sent the victim for her medical examination and to record her statement
u/s 164 CrPC. Ext.3 is medical report of the victim. Ext.4 is the statement of the
victim girl. He examined the accused and sent him to jail. He collected the medical
report and statement of the victim. At the end of investigation, the charge-sheet

was filed vide Ext.5 against the accused.

17. In the cross-examination, 1/O stated that he did not seize the
wearing cloths of the victim girl. He stated that in the previous statement, PW1 did
not to him that PW1 went to the house of the accused and on denial of the parents
of the accused, she went to the Secretary and PW3 did not state to him that the

accused called her to his house in the evening of fateful day.

18. The medical evidence tendered by PW6 Dr. Urmi Devi Choudhury.
She stated that on 30.5.17 at SMK civil hospital, Nalbari, she examined the victim
girl on police requisition on in presence of Anjana Devi and PW1 and found that
according to the girl, she was kidnapped by a known boy on 28.5.17 at about 2
pm and physical relation occurred with him by two times forcefully. On
examination, her external genitalia was healthy, hymen was torn and healthy
and vagina and cervix was healthy with vagina admits two fingers easily. Her
last menstrual period is 29.5.17 and examining fingers is stained with
menstrual blood. Vaginal swabs was sent for microscopic examination to see
sperm. No sperm was seen as per laboratory report. X-ray was advised for age
estimation. Skeletal age from radiological evidence, estimates above 14 years
and below 16 years. USG of lower abdomen was advised. No significant finding
was found.
Opinion : her impression was not consistent with recent sexual intercourse
or assault. Accordingly, PW6 filed the medical report vide Ext.3 and x-ray report
vide Ext.6.

19. Thus, from the above evidence so tendered by the prosecution
  

judge
Baks4

‘~
~ wif

J witnesses, it appears that there is no dispute that the accused was a neighbour of

the informant and as such, the victim girl was known to the accused prior to the
occurrence. PW1 knew that PW3 went to the house of her neighbour who is the
accused and that is why she stated that she went to the house of her neighbour to
bring back PW3. But on search, she could not trace out PW3 till next morning.
Admittedly, PW1 and 2 are the parents of PW3. But both of them did not see the
accused took away the victim girl towards a bamboo bush. PW4 is also, a hearsay

witness of occurrence. Thus, reliance cannot be placed on PW1, 2 and 4.

20. it is therefore, important to scan the evidence of PW3 who is the
sole victim of the alleged occurrence. PW1 stated her age as 12 years while PW2
said it as 13 years. No other reliable source is Found to ascertain the correct age of
the victim. PW3 stated that her age 13 years during deposition. Hence, turning to
medical evidence is necessary. As per medical evidence, the age of PW3 was below
16 years. Thus, PW3 is found to be a child within the meaning of section 2(d) of
POCSO Act.

21. The narration of PW3 about the occurrence is that on calling by the
accused to his house, PW3 went to the house of the accused in the evening time.
But when she reached the house of the accused, he pulled her towards bamboo
bush by gagging her mouth. Thereafter, the accused committed rape on her under
bamboo bush by removing her under garments. But 1/O committed lapse not to
seize the cloths of PW3 to see sperms thereon. According to her, the accused kept
her whole the night under the bamboo bush and dropped her at her house in the
morning. Admittedly, PW3 did not raise any alarm during the night even though
initially the accused gagged her mouth. Thus, it casts doubt over the credibility of
the evidence of PW3. Moreover, PW3 claims that she was forcefully raped by the
accused. But the medical examination was conducted on 30.5.17 which means it
was done after two days, shows negative test for any forceful intercourse with
PW3. In other words, the claim of PW3 is not corroborated by medical evidence.
Hence, doubt casts upon the evidence of PW3 on her trustworthiness. Further,
Pw3 omitted to state that she was called by the accused to his house. Such

ct omission is significant and contradicts her version if she went to the house of the
\
ghalout accused on his call.

22. The offence u/s 3 of POCSO Act which is punishable u/s 4 of POCSO
Act, requires main ingredient as penetration of sexual organ of the accused into

the vagina, urethra or anus of the victim child. But from the medical evidence, it
 
 

does not appear that PW3 was subjected to such penetration by the accused to
attract the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

23. Apart From above, there appears doubt over the evidence of PW1
over her omission in her previous statement before I/O. She omitted to disclose
earlier that she went to the house of the accused in search of PW3 and the father
denied the same and she went to the Secretary of village. If she omitted to say
earlier at the first instance, it significantly takes away her credibility since there is
no need to say such Facts before the court. Perhaps, PW1 wanted to exaggerate the
story against the accused to derive benefit thereof. Such evidence does not pose
For confidence to rely upon. In the result due to doubt appears in the evidence of
the prosecution witnesses particularly, on the version of PW3 who is even though
Found to be minor girl, it cannot be held that she is less matured to understand the
meaning of physical relation and to raise alarm if she was attacked sexually by the
accused. Thus, on the above basis, the accused is entitled to get benefit of doubt.

Accordingly, the accused is given benefit of doubt.

24. Under the above facts and circumstances of the case, the
prosecution has not able to prove its case against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the accused is held not guilty u/s 4 of POCSO Act.
The accused is acquitted and set at liberty. His bail bond is extended to remain in
force u/s 437-A CrPC. Forward a copy of judgment to the District Magistrate, Baksa,
Mushalpur u/s 365 CrPC. This court recommends for payment of compensation to
the victim of the offence u/s 357 CrPC by DLSA, Baksa.

25. Given under the hand and seal of this court on this 13" day of
September 2019.

Dictated and corrected by:

C.Das, ..
page Spi Court Judge Spc yrt
age. S>RRIGLRaHBL JBlaRssPagal Gaye
Baksa, Mushalpur Baksa, Mushalpur
Typed by:

P. Deka, Com. Typist
  

ANNEXURE:

List of prosecution witness :

PW1
PWw2

... Ms. Sayera Bibi ... complainant
... Meser Ali

PW3 ...
PW4...
PWS...
PW6...

victim girl ( name withheld )
Hamid Ali

. Dewan Rahijuddin Ahmed ... I/o

Dr. Urmi Devi Choudhury ... m/o

List of defence witness :

Nil

List documents exhibited :

Ext.1...

Ext.2
Ext.3

Ext.4...
Ext.5...
Ext.6...

FIR

... sketch map

... medial report

statement of victim u/s 164 Crpc
charge-sheet

x-ray report

sade Sore oo

al
Baksa, hush Spalour
