1

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR.

 

Special (POCSO) Case No.7 of 2014.
Under Section 366/376 I.P.C. u/s 4 of the POCSO Act Act,2012.

Present :- Shri S.K. Sharma,
Sessions Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State of Assam
- Versus -

Amir Hussain Laskar

Appearance :-

For the prosecution - Sri S. Dutta, learned P.P.

For the defence - Sri A.Biswas, ld. State Defence Counsel.
Dates of evidence - 9/09/14

Argument heard on - 9/09/14

Judgment delivered on - 09.09.2014.

JUDGEMENT
s

1. The prosecution case is that on 31/03/14 the accused person kidnapped the
daughter of the informant aged about 17 years from the house of the complainant
and thereafter had committed rape/penetrative sexual assault upon her.The father
of the prosecutrix lodged the FIR vide Ext.1 on 4/4/14 whereupon a police case
was registered and investigation commenced.

2. In course of investigation,I.O. recorded the statement of the witnesses and
sent the victim to SMCH for medical examination and also got the statement of the
prosecutrix recorded by Magistrate  u/s.164 CrP.C. On completion of
investigation, the I.O. submitted charge-sheet against the accused person.

3. Upon committal, court framed charges u/s.366/376 I.P.C. u/s 4 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,2012 against the accused
person. The said charges were read over and explained to him. The accused person

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
4. The prosecution examined 3(three) witnesses in order to establish its
case. On perusal of the evidence recorded so far I did not consider it necessary
to summon _ the I.O. and other two witnesses . Hence the prosecution evidence
was closed.Statement and Defence of the accused is recorded. Defence declined to

adduce any evidence.

5. Heard Mr. S. Dutta, learned P.P. for the prosecution and Mr. A.Biswas ,
Ld. State Defence Counsel.

6. Point for determination :

(1) Whether on 31.03.2014, at village Kachdaram Part IV under
Kachudaram , the accused ou kidnapped or abducted , a minor girl with

intent that she may be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse ?

(2) Whether on the same night and same village, the accused

committed rape/penetrative sexual assault on prosecutrix , a minor girl ?
1: Point No.1

(1) In the present case,the father of the prosecutrix who was examined as
P.W.1 deposed that at the time of occurrence,the age of his daughter was 19 years
and the prosecutrix herself deposed that it was 17 years.As per the medical report
the age of the prosecutrix was above 16 years and below 18 years.The prosecutrix
in her own statements recorded before the Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. deposed
her age to be 19 years which she admitted during her cross examination.
Therefore some doubts have been successfully created by the defence regarding
the age of the prosecutrix ,the benefit of which must go to the accused .
Therefore, it is not fully established that the prosecutrix was a minor at the time
of occurrence .Hence the offence of kidnapping cannot be committed against her.

(11) It is now to be looked into whether accused forcibly or by applying
deceitful means abducted the prosecutrix ?

(111) P.W.2 deposed that at the time of occurrence she was a student of
college at Amraghat and after returning from college she had gone to the house
of her aunt Kalabi.While she was returning from there through a paddy field and
reached near the road,suddenly a Nano car came and from that Nano Car accused
Amir Hussain emerged and dragged her inside the Nano car and gagged her
mouth and took her to Kachudaram to the house of one of his relatives.From there
he brought her to Chotobauri to the house of his Pisi( paternal aunt). Accused

also assaulted her because she did not obey him.The prosecutrix further deposed
3

that after four days accused along with his brother brought her to the Kachudaram
P.S. .Thereafter, her father and one relative along with a female constable
brought her to Silchar court where she gave her statements before the
Magistrate.She further deposed that she could not raise any hulla at the relevant
time because the accused gagged her mouth .During cross examination she
admitted that she did not state before the Magistrate or police that when she
reached near the road, suddenly a nano car came and from that Nano car accused
Amir Hussain came down and dragged her inside the Nano and he gagged her
mouth and brought her to Kachudaram to the house of one of his relation .

(iv) Therefore, what she deposed before the court regarding role of the
accused in abducting her is for the first time before the court and has contradicted
what she had deposed before the Magistrate and before the police.Although she
stated in her examination in chief that she had given her statements u/s 164
Cr.P.C. before the Magistrate as per the dictation and instruction of the accused
the defence during cross examination — successfully brought it out that her
statement was recorded on 7/4/14 whereas accused person was arrested on 5/5/14
and sent to jail. Therefore the accused was not in a position to influence the
prosecutrix to make such statements.With reference to the Ext.2,statement, the
defence brought out during cross examination that the prosecutrix had stated
before the Magistrate that she had love affaris with the accused and wanted to go
to his house which statement is admitted by the prosecutrix in her cross
examination.

(v) PW.1 father of the prosecutrix deposed that when the prosecutrix went
missing, they made search for her and after four days as she could be traced out
they reported the matter to the P.S. and thereafter the accused along with his
daughter surrendered before the police which also shows that the prosecutrix
voluntarily went with the accused ,being a person of mature age and capable of
distinguishing between right and wrong.Although PW.1 stated that on being
asked , his daughter stated that accused forcibly kidnapped and took her to
Kachudaram, the aforesaid version is not believable in view of what has been
already discussed regarding the evidence of prosecutrix herself. Even in cross
examination , he admitted that he did not state in that FIR and also before the
police wherefrom he heard that accused had kidnapped his daughter.

(vi) PW.3 Mojrun Nessa @ Kalabi who is sister of the informant merely
deposed that on the day of occurrence the prosecutrix came to her house and after

taking water left her house and in the evening, she heard from the mouth of a
4

woman that Jhony was missing and the woman told her that the accused had taken
her away.P.W.3 did not mention the name of the woman from whom she heard
so.During cross examination she admitted that she did not state before police
that she heard from the mouth of a woman about the accused taking away the
prosecutrix.

(vii) Furthermore, while deposing that the accused person came in a Nano
car and forcibly dragged her and took her inside P.W.2 did not mention whether
there was anybody else present in the car to aid and assist the accused or whether
the accused person had tied her up inside the car. Therefore it 1s quite improbable
that the accused person who is a person of slight built would be capable of
accomplishing the aforesaid feat on his own. It is also too much of a co-
incidence that while the prosecutrix was returning from the house of her aunt
through a paddy field,the accused person also suddenly happened to arrive there
with the intention of kidnapping her.

(viii) In view of what has been discussed above I am not inclined to rely
upon the version of prosecutrix asI find it to be unworthy of credit.The Point
No.1 is answered in negative.

8. Point No.2

With regard to the point No.2 , there is no iota of evidence regading
commission of rape or sexual assault , this point is also answered accordingly.
9. In view of what has been discussed above, I hold that the prosecution has
failed to establish its case beyond reasonable doubt. Consequently, the accused
person is acquitted of the offence u/s.366/376 I.P.C.and u/s 4 of the Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act,2012 .He be set at liberty forthwith.

Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this the 9" day of
September 2014.
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Dictated & corrected by me.

Sessions Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

Dictation taken & transcribed by K.Bhattacharjee,Stenographer.
