(1)

Before The Special Judge,
Cachar at_ Silchar.

Present: Mr. D.Ullah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

Spl(POCSO) Case No. 52 / 2019
u/s 341/354(B)of IPC r/w sec. 4 of the POCSO Act

The State of Assam
-Versus-
Manjurul Islam Mazumder @ Manjur

beseeeeeees accused person

Dates of evidence : 17.12.19
Date of argument : 17.12.19
Date of judgment: 17.12.19
Appearance:-

For the Prosecution : Miss. B. Acharjee, Id. .Spl.P.P.
For the Defence : Mr. Y.A.Barbhuiya. Ld. Advocate
(2)
JUDGMENT

1. The brief facts of the prosecution case is that the
informant Nazma Begum Mazumder had lodged an ejahar
dated 21.11.17 stating that on 21.11.17 at about 10 am the
accused No.1 called the minor daughter of the informant and
wrongfully restrained her with the intention of disrobing or
compelling her to be naked and committed rape upon the
daughter of the informant and also committed penetrative
sexual assault upon her.

2. Accordingly, on receipt of the ejehar, police registered a
case being Silchar P.S Case No.2882/17 u/s 325 of the IPC r/w
sec.4 of the POCSO Act. Thereafter, on completion of
investigation police submitted a charge sheet against the
present accused person u/s 341/354(B) of the IPC r/w sec.4 of
the POCSO Act and sent up the accused person to face trial.

3. The Ld. CJM., Cachar, Silchar committed the case to the
to this court . Thereafter, on 18.9.19 this court received the
case record and registered the same as a Spl(POCSO) case. The
accused person namely, Manjurul Islam Mazumder has
appeared before this court and on 18.11.19 after hearing the
prosecution and the defence counsel, this court was pleased to
frame charges 341/354(B) of the IPC r/w sec. 4 of the POCSO

Act against the accused person and its particular was read over
(3)

and explained to him to which the accused pleaded not guilty
and stood to face the trial.

4. Thereafter, the trial of this case was commenced , during
which the prosecution examined the victim and the informant
of the case as the P.W.1 and the P.W.2 respectively .The Ld.
Spl.P.P has submitted that the prosecution evidence may be
closed as the informant and the victim have not supported the
case of the prosecution. In view of the evidence of the P.W.1
and the P.W.2 , the statement of the accused person u/s 313 of
the Cr.P.C is dispensed with as informant and the victim i.e. the
P.W.1 & PW 2 have failed to implicate the accused person with

the alleged offence.

5. Heard the Ld. Spl.P.P and also the Ld. Counsel appearing

for the accused person .

6. Point for determination:-

(i)Whether on 20.11.17 at about 10 am at village ,
Tupkhana part I under Silchar P.S the accused person
wrongfully restrained the victim i.e. the daughter fo the
informant , as alleged ?

*(ii)Whether on the same date, time and place the
accused person assaulted/used criminal force to the victim , the
daughter of the informant with the intention of disrobing or

compelling her to be naked , as alleged ?
(4)
(iii)Whether on the same date, time and place’ the
accused person committed rape on the victim and the accused
also committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim, as

alleged ?

Discussion , Decision and Reasons Thereof :-

7, In this case the prosecution side examined only the
informant and the victim of the case as the P.W.1 and the
P.W.2.
8. The P.W.1 is the victim of the case and she stated that
the occurrence took place about 3 years ago at about 2.30 PM ,
when she along with her 3/4 friends went to the river at
Tupkhana for taking bath and on her return she heard that the
accused entered into altercation with her mother. She added
that thereafter, her mother lodged a case before police. She
also stated that police took her to SMCH, Silchar wherein her
medical examination was done and also brought her to Court
where her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded. The said
statement is brought on record as the Ext. 1 . She also stated
that at the time of occurrence she was a student of class V.

During her cross-examination the P.W.1 stated that
the accused is my uncle. She also admitted that the altercation
between the accused and her mother took place in respect of
land dispute. She also stated that there is common courtyard for

all of the houses of our campus including the house of the
(5)
accused and there is common path for all of them. She
specifically admitted that she does not know as to when her
mother lodged the lodged the FIR. She also stated that she
gave statement before the Court as told by her villagers and she
does not remember as to what she had stated before the
Magistrate in her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. The P.W.1 further
stated in her cross that no any incident took place between her
and the accused and that she has no grievances against the

accused.

9. The P.W.2 Nazma Begum Mazumder and she stated
that she is the informant of the case and she lodged the case
against the accused Manjurul Islam Mazumder in the year 2017.
She added that the accused entered into altercation with her in
respect of land dispute. She also stated that she complained the
same to village elders and thereafter to panchayet but they
failed to settle the matter and the accused continued to enter
into altercation with her regarding the land dispute. She also
Stated that her house is near the river and on the date of
occurrence about 3 years ago, her daughter, the victim came
from the river and she heard crying and then on being asked
her daughter told her that the accused told her(victim) some
unpleasant words and thereafter her villagers advised her to
lodge a case and accordingly she lodged a case before
Arunachal Outpost under Silchar PS. The ejahar is brought on
record as the Ext. 2 . The P.W.2 stated that at the time of
(6)
occurrence, her daughter was studying in class V and at the

time of occurrence her daughter was aged 11 years.

During cross-examination the P.W.2 admitted that
the land is an ancestral property of her husband and the
accused. She stated that after the alleged occurrence she
complained to the village elders and thereafter 4/5 days she
reported the matter to the panchayet but as no bichar was held
at Panchayet and as per advice of the village elders she lodged
this case. The P.W.2 admitted that she does not know the
contents of the FIR. She also stated that the residential plot of
their land is still an ejmali property with the accused. She added
that she had not seen the occurrence between the accused and
my daughter, the victim and that she had not seen anything.
She admitted that she had _ forgotten as to what had her
daughter stated in respect of the incident and that she has no

grievances against the accused .

10. Appreciating the materials on record, it is found that
though the informant P.W.1 during her deposition before the
court has failed to implicate the accused person rather she gave
clean chit to the accused by stating that on the date of
occurrence at about 2.30 pm when she alongwith her 3-4
friends went to the river at Tupkhana for taking bath and on her
return she heard that the accused entered into altercation with

her mother whereas in the Ext.1, the informant alleged that the
(7)
accused wrongfully restrained her daughter and committed
sexual assault upon her. The P.W.2 is the informant of the case
and she also failed to implicate the accused person with the
alleged offence. She admitted that there is land dispute
between the accused and her family. Therefore, the evidence of
both the witnesses contradictory and failed to connect the
accused person with the alleged offence. Although, the P.W.1 &
2 have stated in their evidence that the victim was a student of
class V but the prosecution has failed to prove any offence
charged against the accused person .
11. In view of the above position, I am of the opinion that
the prosecution side failed to prove the offence charged against
the accused person i.e. the offence u/s 341/354(B) of the IPC r/
w sec.4 of the POCSO Act.
12. It is the bounden duty of the prosecution to prove the
necessary ingredients of the offence against the accused person
beyond all reasonable doubt .
13. Upon consideration of all the oral and documentary
evidence on record as discussed above, I have found that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove the charges against

the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt.

O R DE R
14. Considering the materials available on record, I found that

the prosecution has failed to prove the alleged offence u/s
(8)
341/354(B) of the IPC r/w sec. 4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused person present today beyond reasonable doubt. As a
result, the accused person namely, Manjurul Islam Mazumder @

Manjur is acquitted and set at liberty.

Set my hand and seal of this case on the 17™ day of
December, 2019.

( Mr.D.Ullah),

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Dictated & corrected by me ;

Special Judge, Cachar, Silchar.
(9)

APPENDIX

A.Prosecution Witnesses:-
P.W.1-victim

P.W.2-Nazma Begum Mazumder

B.Prosecution Exhibits:-
Ext.1-statement u/s 164 of the Cr.P.C
Ext.-FIR

C.Defence witnesses :- NIL
D.Defence Exhibits:- NIL

E.Court witness:- NIL.

( Mr.D.Ullah),
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by-
S.A.Laskar,

Stenographer
(10)
