Zz

   

Gor |
yo39? Setyeneto™ committed sexual assault upon her said daughter. Later on, the accused persons

pax

Present: Shri C. Das
Judge, Special Court
Baksa, Mushalpur

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO.50/2018(OLD NO.10/16)

u/s 4 of POCSO Act
State
versus-
1. Sri Nibhaj Mandal
2. Sri Dhan Biswas

@ Dhananjoy
.. Accused

Appearance :
FortheState :Mr.R. Chetry, Public Prosecutor, Baksa —

For the accused : Mr. S. N. Sarma, R. Bhagabati, R. M. Deka, Advocates

Date of recording evidence : 6.8.18, 6.9.18, 1.11.18, 13.12.18

Date of argument :25.4.19
Date of judgment :9.5.19
JUDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution briefly, is that on 28.11.14, the

complainant Ms. Rupali Hajong lodged a FIR before the In-charge of Kumarikata
police out-post, alleging inter-alias that on 26.11.14 at about 6 pm., the accused

persons kidnapped her minor daughter ( her name is withheld) from her house and

left her daughter near her house.

2. The police accordingly, registered the Kumarikata OP. GDE. No.459
dated 28.11.14 and Forwarded the said FIR of the complainant to the Officer-in-
charge of Tampulpur police station and took up the due process of the

investigation. Hence, the Tamulpur PS. Case No.196/14 was registered in the above
    
 

 

Z cgapnection. During the investigation, the I/O visited the place of occurrence, drew

SY
: is sketch map, examined the witnesses and seized the birth certificate of the

SSE. "victim girl. Further, the I/O sent the victim for medical examination and recorded

2,

judd?
Bek?

Spl.
aus

her statement u/s 164 of CrPC. The accused persons were arrested thereafter. At
the end of the investigation, the I/O submitted the charge-sheet against the

accused persons to face trial in the court.

3. The accused persons when appeared in the court, they were
Furnished with the copy of the case immediately. After hearing of the parties, the
charge u/s 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ( in short; the
POCSO Act) was framed against the accused persons. The charge so framed, was
read over and explained to the accused persons who pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution during the trial examined as many as, 8(eight)
witnesses including the I/O and MO in support of its case. Thereafter, the
statement of the accused persons u/s 313 of CrPC was recorded wherein, the
accused persons denied all incriminating circumstances so appeared against them
in the evidence. But the accused persons declined to adduce any evidence. The

argument of the parties was heard at length and perused the evidence on record.
POINT FOR DETERMINATION :

5. Whether on 26.11.14 at about 6 pm., at the village ; Agarkata
Hajong-basti under Tamulpur police station, the accused persons committed
penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl who is the minor daughter of the

complainant Ms. Rupali Hajong;
DECISION AND REASON THEREFORE :

6. Initiating the argument for the prosecution, learned Public

Prosecutor submitted that it is a case of sexual assault upon a minor girl and

cout normally such kind case, there is difficulty to get support of any eye-witness and as

alors ch, the reliance only has to be placed on the testimony of the victim girl. He

submitted further that the evidence of the victim girl is apparently, found reliable
and she clearly implicated the accused persons for committing the offence of
penetrative sexual assault upon her. That apart the evidence of the complainant

shows that the victim girl is below 18 years of age and as such, she is a child within
yad9%
pans?

  

72. ,

Sel halo’
ys with lenses tinged with doubt, disabled or suspicion ? The plea about lack of

Criminal Appeal (J) No. 17/2016 Dilip Deka vs. State of Assam wherein, it was

} observed that the defense has taken the plea, during the argument that the offense

does not fall the purview pf the provisions of Section 3, and as such, the charge under
Section 4 of the POCSO Act is incorrect. Section 4 of the POCSO Act is the penal
provisions for commission of any of the offences enumerated in Section 3 of the
POCSO Act. Section 3(b) of the POCSO Act, provides that, a person is stated to commit
“penetrative sexual assault” if he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the
body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes
the child to do so with him or any other person. The evidence of the victim is
categorical to the effect that the accused/ appellant penetrated his left finger into her
vagina repeatedly. Therefore, the offence committed by the accused/ appellant falls
under the category of offence in Section 3(b) of the POCSO Act.

¥. In the above judgment, the case as reported in (2017) 2 SCC 51
Himachal Pradesh vs. Sanjay Kumar was referred to wherein, it was observed that
By now it is well settled that the testimony of a victim in cases of sexual offences is
vital and unless there are compelling reasons, which necessitate looking for
corroboration of a statement, the courts should find no difficulty to act on the
testimony of the victim of a sexual assault to convict the accused. No doubt, her
testimony has to inspire confidence. Seeking corroboration to a statement before
relying upon the same as a rule, in such cases, would literally amount to adding insult
to injury. The deposition of the prosecutrix has, thus, to be taken as a whole. Needless
ti reiterate Criminal Appeal (J) 17/2016 that the victim of rape is not an accomplice
and her evidence can be acted upon without corroboration. She stands at a higher
pedestal than an injured witness does. If the court finds it difficult to accept her
version, it may seek corroboration, from some evidence which lends assurance to her
version. To insist on corroboration, except in the rarest of rare cases, is to equate one
who is a victim of the lust of another with an accomplice to a crime and thereby, insult
womanhood. It would be adding insult to injury to tell a woman that her claim of rape
will not be believed unless it is corroborated in material particulars, as in the case of
an accomplice to a crime. Why should the evidence of the girl or the woman who

complains of rape or sexual molestation be viewed with the aid of spectacles fitted

corroboration has no substance. Notwithstanding this legal position, in the instance
case, we even find enough corroborative material as well, which is discussed herein

above.
  
 

Learned Public Prosecutor Further placed reliance on the decision
Sy reported in Nivrutti Pandurang Kokate & ors. vs. State of Maharashtra (2008) 12
SCC 565 which was relied upon in the case of Himmat Sukhadeo Wahurwagh &
ors. vs. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 712 (FB) the Hon'ble Supreme Court
held that Though it is an established principle that child witnesses are dangerous
witnesses as they are pliable and liable to be influenced easily, shaped and molded,
but it is also an accepted norm that if after careful scrutiny of their evidence the court
comes to the conclusion that there is an impress of truth in it, there is no obstacle in

the way of accepting the evidence of a child witness.

9. Similar to above, he relied the decision reported in State of
Himachal Pradesh vs. Asha Ram (2005) 13 SCC 766 which held that the testimony
of the prosecutrix alone can form the basis of conviction if it inspires confidence and is

found to be reliable.

10. Apart From above, it was held in State of HP vs. Shree Kant Shekari
(2004) 8 SCC 153 that Sexual violence apart from being a dehumanizing act is an act
is an unlawful intrusion on the right of privacy and sanctity of a female. It is a serious
blow to her supreme honour and offends her self-esteem and dignity- it degrades and
humiliates the victim and where the victim is a helpless innocent child or a minor, it
leaves behind a traumatic experience. A rapist not only causes physical injuries but
more indelibly leaves a scar on the most cherished possession of a woman it i.e. her
dignity, honour, reputation and not the least her chastity. Rape is not only a crime
against the person of a woman, it is a crime against the entire society. It destroys the
entire psychology of a woman and pushes her into deep emotional crisis. It is a crime
against basic human rights, and is also violative of the victim's most cherished of the
fundamental rights, namely, the right to life contained in Article 21. The courts are,
therefore, expected to deal with cases of sexual crime against women with utmost
sensitivity. Such cases need to be dealt with sternly and severely. A socially senstised
Judge is a better statutory amour in cases of crime against women than long clauses
of penal provisions, containing complex exceptions and provisos. In the present case,
the accused who was a teacher gratified his animated passions and sexual pleasures
by having carnal knowledge of his student, a girl of tender age. Such offenders are a

menace to civilized society.

11. Further in Bodhisattwa Gautam vs. Subhra Chakraborty (1996) 1
SCC 490, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that Rape is thus not only a crime against

the person of awoman (victim), it is a crime against the entire society. It destroys the
 
  
  

Z ge

judge Spl.
Beaks?

“ust

~ entire psychology of a woman and pushes her into deep emotional crisis. It is only be
“her sheer will- power that she rehabilitates herself in the society which, on coming to

”” know of the rape, looks down upon her in derision and contempt. Rape is, therefore,

the most hated crime. It is a crime against basis human rights and is also violative of
the victim's most cherished of the Fundamental Rights, namely, the Right to Life
contained in Article 21. To many feminists and psychiatrists, rape is less a sexual
offence then an act of aggression aimed at degrading and humiliating women. The
rape laws do not, unfortunately, take care of the social aspect of the matter and are

inept in many respects.

12. At the end, learned Public Prosecutor submitted that since the
nature of offence in the case is similar to offence of rape, it can be dealt
accordingly and the evidence of the victim girl in this case is inspired confidence to
rely upon having no any elements of doubt and supported by medical evidence and
as such, an order of conviction of accused persons can be passed according to the

law.

13. Per contra, learned counsel for the accused persons submitted that
the above rulings are not applicable in the present case in hand. He submitted that
the complainant/ informant is the mother of the victim girl but she was not an eye-
witness of the occurrence. Moreover, the victim in her statement recorded u/s 164
of CrPC., categorically mentioned that she did not about the incident and as such,
the evidence of the victim in the circumstances, cannot be relied upon and it
requires corroboration. But there is no evidence to corroborate the version of the
victim. Apart from that the prosecution lapsed to examine two sisters of the victim
who were vital witnesses to the incident to place reliance on the version of the
victim girl. Further, he submitted that most significant aspect of the case is that
there is no support of medical evidence as to the claim of the prosecution against
the accused person. He submitted that there are contradictions in the evidence of

the prosecution witnesses which are confirmed by the I/O and as such, the

rt Prosecution could not prove its case against the accused persons beyond all

aloutreasonable doubt and hence, the accused persons are entitled to get the benefit of

doubt.

14, Apparently, the above law laid down that there is no bar to rely the
evidence of the victim alone in cases of sexual offences subjected to condition that
such evidence must inspire confidence for its reliability. Another aspect is that if

sole testimony of the victim is not wholly reliable, then, corroboration of other
 
  
 

judge
Baks3

 

itnesses can be sought for to base a conviction against the accused. After hearing

;; the above submissions of parties, it is pertinent to place on record the reproduction

> HF evidence so recorded during the trial for the sake of convenience. The

Spi. Court
. Mushatoe

prosecution examined the complainant Smti. Rupali Hajong as PW1. She is the
mother of the victim girl. She deposed in the court that on the fateful day at about
5.30 pm., when she returned to her home, she found that the victim girl was not
present in the house. After her inquiry, she came to know from her another
daughter namely; Aishamoni Hajnong that the accused Nibhaj Mandal came to her
house and took away the victim girl. She searched for the victim girl but could not
trace her out. After two days, one Gopal Hajong found the victim girl at his
haystack, near his house. The victim girl was found in unconscious state. After
getting the information, she called local persons and shifted the victim girl to the
hospital. But the medical authority refused to provide medical treatment to the
victim without police report. Hence, local public informed the police and
accordingly, the police came to hospital and thus, medical treatment was provided
to the victim girl. On her inquiry, the victim girl told her that the accused Nibhaj
Mandal committed rape on her. Thereafter, she Filed the FIR before the police vide
Ext.1 and proved the same. The police sent the victim to record her statement in
the court, according to her, the victim girl was 16 years of age at the time of
occurrence. The police seized the birth certificate of the victim girl vide Ext.2 and
she proved the same. Further she stated that the victim girl told her that the

accused Dhananjay Biswas accompanied the accused Nibhaj Mandal.

15. In the cross-examination, PW1 stated that she filed the FIR after
recovery of the victim girl. She did not mention the cause of delay in filing the
Ext.1. The house of Gopal Hajong was on the eastern side of her house. She could
not say who dropped the victim girl at the haystack near her house. The defence
side in order to bring contradictions of her statement made before the police
earlier suggested that she did not state that after recovery of the victim girl, she
called local public and shifted the victim girl to hospital and the victim girl told her
that the accused Nibhaj Mandal raped the victim and the accused Dhananjay Biswas
accompanied the accused Nibhaj Mandal at the time of occurrence and she did not
mention the name of girl who informed her that the accused Nibhaj Mandal took

away the victim girl from her house.

16. PW2 is the victim girl and her name is withheld. She deposed in the
court that on the fateful day at about 4.30 pm., the accused Nibhaj Mandal took her

towards river side and committed rape on her. Hence, she became unconscious.
Judge
Baksa

   
 

Spl Court

Fter two days, she recovered sense at the hospital. Her statement was recorded

ide Ext.3 and she proved the same. According to her, the accused Dhananjay

7 Biswas accom panied the accused Nibhaj Mandal.

17. In the cross-examination, PW2 stated that she was picked up ona
bike by both accused persons. The accused Nibhaj Mandal called her to come out of
her house. When she came out, the accused gagged her mouth and forcibly took
her on the bike. At that time, her sister Bhumika was present in her house. The
defence suggested to form contradictions over her previous statement that she did
not state to the police earlier that the accused gagged her mouth and forcibly took
her ona bike and the accused Nibhaj Mandal raped her and she recovered her sense
at Kumarikata hospital after two days which she denied. She could not say who
recovered her from which place. Thus, it appears that the evidence of PW2 is
corroborated by PW1.

18. PW3 Sri Ratneswar Hajong stated that on the fateful day, in the
morning, he heard hue and cry at the house of PW1 and accordingly, he came to the
house of PW1 and saw the victim girl lying on a haystack in senseless state. Hence,
the victim girl was shifted to hospital. Later on, he heard that the accused persons

took away the victim girl to the jungle and committed rape on her.

19. In his cross-examination, PW3 stated that he did not see the
occurrence and from when the victim girl was missing from the house and how the
victim girl was lying at the haystack. Apparently, the evidence of PW3 confines to

recovery of the victim girl from a haystack in senseless condition.

20. PW4 Smti. Jonti Hajong deposed inter-alias that on the fateful day,
at about 4.30 pm., the victim girl was missing from the house. On the next day
morning, the victim was found lying unconsciously at her haystack. Local public
rushed to the spot and shifted the victim to hospital. After recovery of sense, the
victim told her that the accused Nibhaj Mandal took her and raped her. In her cross-
examination, PW4 stated that she did not state to the police earlier that the
accused Nibhaj Mandal took the victim girl away and committed rape on her. Similar
to PW3 , the evidence of PW4 discloses however, more of recovery of the victim girl

at a haystack in senseless state after missing of the victim from the house.

21. PWS Sri Mukti Nath Hajong deposed that on the fateful day, at
  
 
 

about 5 pm., PW1 came to his house and reported that the victim girl was missing
co fyom her house. Accordingly, he searched for the victim girl but he along with
illagers could not trace her out For two days. On 28.11.14 at about 6.30 am he
went to the house of PW1 to discuss about informing about the missing of the
victim to the police. At that time, there was hue and cry outside and local villager
Gopal Hajong reported that the victim girl was found lying at his haystack.
Accordingly, he along with others went to the spot and Found the victim girl lying
on the haystack of Gopal in unconscious state. He brought the victim girl to home
and shifted her to hospital. As per instruction of the doctor, he informed the police.
The victim girl told him that the accused persons took her away but thereafter, she
could not say anything about the incident and the accused persons committed rape

on her.

22. In the cross-examination, PW5 stated that he could not say who
dropped the victim at the haystack of Gopal. He denied the suggestion of the
defense to contradict his previous statement that he did not state to the police
earlier that PW1 reported him that the victim girl was missing From the house and
that he went out in search of the victim but could not find her out and that on
27.11.14 when the victim could not be Found, he advised the informant to report to
the police and that he along with another brought the victim to her house and that

on the direction of the doctor, he informed the police.

23. PW6 Dr. Dolly Gogoi was the medical officer and she deposed inter-
alias in the court that on 28.11.14 at Civil Hospital, Nalbari, at about 12.10 pm., she
examined the victim girl with reference to Kumarikata PO GDE No.459 dated
28.11.14 and Found the Following as;

On general examination: Teeth : 7/7- 7/7, Height : 5 feet 7 inches

approx. Secondary sex character well developed.

On pelvic examination: Vagina : vulva — healthy, Hymen- absent,

Vagina-admits one finger. No injury mark on her private part and body.

Advice- x-ray for age determination, Vaginal smear for sperm. Report :
2 vaginal smear- no sperm seen under microscope.
\. Court X-ray : The skeletal age from radiological evidence is estimated below
suet OF jenatout 18 years vide x-ray plate no.10643.
Bal

Impression: There is no evidence of recent sexual intercourse. The age

of the victim is below 18 years. There is no injury on her private parts.

24. PW6 submitted the medical report vide Ext.4 and proved the same.
   

here is no dispute over the Findings of the medical officer in respect of the injury
of the victim girl. But the medical evidence of PW6 does not support the claim of
the victim girl and PW1.

25. Apart from above, the evidence of PW7 Smti. Himani Hajong is that
the sister of the victim girl reported her that the accused Nibhaj Hajong took away
the victim girl. On 28.11.14 at about 7 am., the victim girl was found at a haystack of
Gopal Hajong. In the cross-examination, PW7 disclosed that she did not see the
occurrence. She denied the suggestion of the defense that she did not state to the
police earlier that the sister of the victim girl reported her that the accused Nibhaj
Hajong took away the victim girl. Her house is adjacent to the house of Gopal

Hajong.

26. PW8 is Atowar Rahman who is the I/O of the case. He deposed inter-
alias that on 28.11.14 while he was working at Kumarikata out-post, the In-charge
of the out-post received a FIR From the informant and accordingly, the GDE No.459
dated 28.11.14 was lodged vide Ext.3(1) with the signature of the In-charge Sri
Kandarpa Kr. Baruah. He was endorsed to investigate the case. The In-charge also,
forwarded the said FIR to the Tamulpur police station. Accordingly, the O/C
Tamulpur police station registered the Tamulpur PS. Case No.196/14 vide Ext.1((5)
with the signature of then O/C Suresh Ch. Das. During the investigation, he
examined the informant and he came to know that the victim was admitted at
Kumarikata CHC and as such, he visited the said hospital and found the victim in
sick condition and he examined the victim and sent her to SMK Civil Hospital,
Nalbari For Further medical treatment. He visited the place of occurrence and drew
up its sketch map vide Ext.5 with his signature. He also, examined the witnesses at
the place of occurrence. He arrested the accused Dhananjay Biswas but could not
Find out the accused Nibhaj Mandal. He sent the victim to record her statement u/s
164 of CrPC. He seized the birth certificate of the victim vide Ext.2 with his
signature. On 29.11.14, he arrested the accused Nibhaj Mandal. He completed the
preliminary investigation of the case and handed over the case diary to the In-
charge Sri Kandarpa Kr. Baruah who submitted the charge-sheet against the

accused persons vide Ext.6 with the signature.

27. In the cross-examination, the I/O stated Further that the occurrence
took place on the road. The place of occurrence was at a distance of 50 meters
From the haystack. There were houses near the place of occurrence. The I/O

contradicted that the informant PW1 did not state to him earlier that she called
  
  

Che -
pre
sega Mush

10

»(@cal public after recovery of the victim and sent the victim For treatment at the
Jiospital and that the victim reported her that the accused Nibhaj Mandal raped her
_/” and that the accused Dhananjay Biswas accompanied the accused Nibhaj Mandal at

the relevant time. Further the I/O contradicted the version of the victim girl that
she did not state to him earlier that the accused Nibhaj Mandal after gagging her
mouth, took her on a motor-bike and committed rape on her and that after two
days, she regained her sense at Kumarikata hospital. The I/O contradicted the
version of Jonti Hajong that she did not state to him earlier that the accused Nibhaj
Mandal took away the victim girl and committed rape on her. Again, the 1/O
contradicted the version of Mukti Nath Hajong that he did not state earlier that on
27.11.14 he again searched for the victim girl but could not trace her out and he
brought back the victim girl to her house with the help of another person and as
per advice of the doctor, he collected the report after informing the police and
victim girl informed local journalist about the incident. As regard to the witness
Himani Hajong, the I/O contradicted that she did not state earlier that the sister of

victim reported her about the incident.

28. After going through the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, it
appears that PW2 is the sole victim of the occurrence. The evidence of PW1 is
reported in nature as well as, discovery of offence of kidnapping of the victim from
the house by way of missing. She was not an eye-witness of the occurrence. She
searched for the victim girl after her missing from the house. She recovered the
victim girl from the haystack of one Gopal Hajong in an unconscious state and
accordingly, she shifted the victim to hospital with the assistance of PWS. It
appears therefore, that what PW1 stated is nonetheless correct and she is
corroborated by PW3, 4, 5 and 7 that she found the victim lying at the haystack of
PW4 who is the wife of said Gopal Hajong. Moreover, the I/O Found the victim girl at
the local hospital which means that the victim was actually admitted in local
hospital. Therefore, the contradiction as alleged by the defense about her omission
in the previous statement u/s 161 of CrPC that she called local public after recovery
of victim and shifted the victim to hospital, does not throw any significant doubt
over her version. Apparently, the evidence of PW1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 relates to recovery
of the victim girl From a haystack of PW4 after two days of missing of the victim girl
from her house in unconscious state and accordingly, the victim was admitted in
the local hospital for treatment before informing the police. Hence, the omission of
PW1, 3, 4, 5 and 7 in their previous statement made u/s 161 of CrPC cannot be a

significant contradiction to discredit their versions.
11

  

immediately, the victim was admitted in the local hospital for her medical
treatment before informing the police. It is admitted Fact that the above witnesses
of the prosecution did not see the taking away of the victim by the accused persons
on a motor-bike. After the missing, it is the victim who narrated Further facts of the
incident. She is the only witness who can throw light on that. According to the
victim girl who is PW2 of the case, the accused Nibhaj Mandal came to her house
and called her. When she came out, the accused gagged her mouth and took her on
a motor-bike. At that time, according to PW1, the sister of PW2 was present at the
house. But the prosecution did not examine the sister of PW2 to confirm it or not
the accused persons gagged the mouth of PW2 since PW2 came out of her house at
the call of the accused Nibhaj Mandal which indicates that PW2 knew the said
accused prior to the occurrence and perhaps, had an intimate relationship. As such,
the said Fact discloses of consent of PW2 to go with the accused Nibhaj Mandal out
of their previous relationship. In this respect, the sister of PW2 could have given
real picture of the Fact if she was examined in the case. Thus, it is a serious lapse of
the prosecution for Failure to examine such important witness of the occurrence.
So an adverse is drawn u/s 774 [illustraion- (g) ] of Evidence Act that if such witness
was examined like the sister of PW2, she would have given evidence unfavourable

to the prosecution. Hence, there casts doubt on the prosecution story.

30. Further, it appears that PW2 stated that after taking her away from
her house, the accused Nibhaj Mandal committed rape on her. But the medical
evidence does not corroborate the said claim of PW2. However, the medial
evidence confirms undisputedly that the victim girl was below 18 years of age at
the time of occurrence. Thus, PW2 was a child within the meaning of section 2(d) of
POCSO Act. Since the charge in the case framed u/s 4 of POCSO Act, the evidence
of PW2 indicates of offence as defined u/s 3 of the said Act punishable u/s 4 of the
ourt Act was committed against her by the accused Nibhaj Mandal.

\.G
jud spuenalou"

aks ;
Baks 31. The offence as indicates u/s 3 of POCSO Act is defined as
penetrative sexual assault upon the child and reads that a person is said to commit

“ penetrative sexual assault” if -
(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or
anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person;

or
 

Baksa

ee
judge Spl. Cour

Mushalour

12

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the
penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the child
to do so with him or any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the child
or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the child or

makes the child to do so to such person or any other person.

32. Thus, from the above provisions of law, it appears that the case of
PW2 is come u/s 3(a) of POCSO Act as indicates in her evidence. Her evidence
makes it clear that penetrative sexual assault was committed against her. In this
respect, the medical evidence is best evidence to confirm her such claim. Since the
evidence of PW2 is come under doubt since she came out of her house at the call of
the accused Nibhaj Mandal without any hesitation indicates of previous relation
exists between them. Hence, seeking corroboration from the medical evidence is
proper to Find out truth and because medial evidence would throw some indication
of claim of PW2. But surprisingly, the evidence of PW6 clearly discloses of no such
sexual assault cause to PW2. Therefore, it casts doubt over the version of PW2 if
the accused Nibhaj Mandal committed penetrative sexual assault upon her. It
appears that the accused Dhananjay Biswas accompanied the accused Nibhaj
Mandal at the relevant time of occurrence as stated by PW2. But his role is very
negligible as far as the offence is concerned. Under the above facts and
circumstances, there comes serious doubt over the version of PW2 if the offence
u/s 4 of POCSO Act was committed against her by the accused Nibhaj Mandal and
as such, there is no option but to allow benefit of doubt to the accused persons.

Accordingly, the accused persons are given the benefit of doubt.

Under the above facts and circumstances of the case, the
prosecution has not able to prove its case against the accused persons beyond all
reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the accused persons are held not guilty u/s 4 of
POCSO Act and they are acquitted and set at liberty. However, their bail bonds shall
remain in force u/s 437-A of CrPC. The seized article shall be returned to the owner
as claimed. Forward a copy of judgment to the District Magistrate, Baksa at
Mushalpur u/s 365 of CrPC. Before parting with the case, it would be proper to
mention here that the victim is entitled to get monetary compensation for the
offence. Hence, this court recommends payment of proper monetary compensation

to the victim as per Assam Vicitm Compensation Scheme by the DLSA, Baksa.
.. INForm accordingly.

S84. Given under the hand and seal of this court on this 9" day of May

 

Dictated and corrected by:

Ne

C. Das,

sudgdas Spl. Gorert sudedan reed
ERS a MHDS Baksa Mus hur

Typed by:
P. Deka, Com. Typist
14

   

List of prosecution witness:
PW1 ... Smti. Rupali Hajong ... informant

PW2 ... the victim (name withheld)
PW3 ... Sri Ratneswar Hajong

PW4 ... Smti. Jonti Hajong

PWS ... Sri Mukti Nath Hajong
PW6 ... Dr. Dolly Gogoi ... m/o
PW7 ... Smti Himani Hajong

PW8 ... Atowar Rahman... |/o

List of defence witness:
Nil

List of documents exhibited :
Ext.1... the FIR
Ext.2 ... seizure list
Ext.3 ... statement of victim u/s 164 CrPC
Ext.4 ... medical report
Ext.5... sketch map
Ext.6 ... charge-sheet

Judge Spi.

Baksa, Mushalpur
