Present : Shri C. Das, AJS.
Judge, Special Court,
Baksa, Mushalpur

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO.48/2018
u/s 8 of POCSO Act

State

-versus-

Md. Safiur Ali

....Accused

Appearance :
For the State : Mr. R. Chetry, Public Prosecutor, Baksa

For the accused : Mr. M. Mazumdar, Advocate

Date of evidence : 9/9/15, 22/9/15, 29/7/16, 29/6/17
Date of argument : 29/10/18
Date of judgment : 12/11/18

JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution briefly, is that on 19/6/15, the
complainant Smti. Gita Kalita lodged a FIR before the Officer-in-charge of Tamulpur
police station, alleging inter-alias that on the same day, at about 10 am., while her
14 years daughter was alone in her home, the accused came to her home under
pretext to have a glass of water. The accused thereafter, pulled her daughter inside
the house and forced her to lay down on the bed with an attempt to commit sexual
assault upon her said daughter. Due to alarm of her daughter, the accused tried to
flee away. But local people could able to apprehend the accused and handed him
over to the police.

2: Accordingly, the police registered the Tamulpur PS. Case No.111/15
and started the process of investigation. During the investigation, the police visited

the place of occurrence, examined the witnesses. At the end, the police having
 

Found a prima-facie case well established, submitted the charge-sheet against the

accused to face trial in the court.

3 When the accused was produced before the court, he was
immediately, Furnished with the relevant copy of the case. After hearing the both
sides and on perusal of the material on record, the charge u/s 8 of POCSO Act
framed against the accused. The charge was then, read over and explained to the

accused who pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. In the trial, the prosecution examined as many as, nine (9) witnesses
including the I/O to support its case. The accused in his statement recorded u/s 313
CrPC., took the plea of total denial of all the incriminating circumstances appeared
against him. However, the accused declined to adduce any evidence in his defence.

Thereafter, the argument of both sides was heard at length.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION :

. Whether on 19/6/15, at around 10 am., the accused committed

sexual assault upon the victim girl;

DECISION AND REASON THEREAFORE :

6. At the outset of argument, learned Public Prosecutor, Baksa,
submitted that the evidence on record to prove the guilt of the accused. He
submitted that if the evidence of the victim is carefully perused, it would appear
that it was the accused who by entering into the house of the victim, tried to
commit sexual assault upon her but due to her timely alarm, local people caught
him while tried to flee away from the crime scene. Hence the conduct of the victim
causing due alarm on right time, is sufficient enough and relevant to point the guilt
towards the accused and as such, the accused is liable to be punished under the
relevant provisions of law, he submitted. Learned Public Prosecutor placed the
decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court, reported in CRL. A. 751/2014 Chander Singh
vs. State, decided on 3/6/16 wherein, it was observed as that it would be now
apposite to note the testimony of PW-4 the mother of the prosecutrix who
deposed that on February 09.2013 at about 7.00 PM her daughter had
gone to throw the garbage in the public dustbin near her house. When
her daughter came back from the public dustbin she was very nervous and
perplexed. When she asked from her by making gestures the
prosecutrix told her by gestures that one person misbehaved with her by

pressing her mouth and breast and putting his hand on her lower back side.
. ie judg?

os

On hearing this she along with her husband and the prosecutrix went to the
said place i.e. public dustbin at K block where the appellant was present and
her daughter pointed towards the appellant as the person who had
misbehaved with her. On seeing them, appellant tried to run away From
there but in the meanwhile her brother also came there and apprehended
the appellant. The conduct of prosecutrix pointing towards appellant as the
person soon after the incident when she was in a perplexed and nervous
condition forms part of the transaction of the incident itself and is thus
admissible under section 6 and 8 of the Evidence Act. On being pointed out,
the conduct of the appellant trying to run away from the spot is also
relevant and admissible under section 8 of the Evidence Act. The evidence
on record as discussed aforesaid proves beyond reasonable doubt the

offence committed by Chander Singh.

Learned Public Prosecutor, Baksa further submitted that there is no

dispute that the victim girl is a minor and as such, their evidence is to be visualised

from realistic view so as to appreciate the matter in true prospective and held in
Criminal Appeal No.238/16 by Hon'ble Gauhati High Court. He submitted that

the sole evidence of the victim is itself is reliable to bring home the charge against

the accused and he relied the view given in State of Himachal Pradesh vs. Sanjay
Kumar @ Sunny 2016 0 SC 992, that (B) Indian Penal Code, 1860 376-rape-

8.

Testimony of a victim in cases of sexual offences is vital and unless there are
compelling reasons which necessitated looking for corroboration of a
statement, court should Find no difficulty to act on testimony of victim of a
sexual assault alone to convict accused accused-seeking corroboration to a
statement before relying upon the same as a rule, in such cases, would
literally amount to adding insult to injury-Deposition of prosecutrix has to
be taken as a whole- Victim of rape is not an accomplice and her evidence
can be acted upon without corroboration-She stands at a higher pedestal
than an injured witness does- IF court Finds it difficult to accept her version,
it may seek corroboration From some evidence which lends assurance to her
version- To insist on corroboration, except in rarest of rare cases, is to
equate one who is a victim of lust of another with an accomplice to a crime
and thereby insult womanhood- It would be adding insult to injury to tella
woman that her claim of rape will not be believed unless it is corroborated

in material particulars, as in case of an accomplice to a crime.

In the case of child rape, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of

Rajasthan vs. Om Prakash reported in (2002) 5 SCC 745 held that Child rape cases

are cases of perverse lust for sex where even innocent children are not
 

spared in pursuit of sexual pleasure. There cannot be anything more
obscene than this. It is a crime against humanity. Many such cases are not
even brought to light because of the social stigma attached thereto.
According to some surveys, there has been a steep rise in child rape cases.
Children need special care and protection. In such cases, responsibility on
the shoulders of the courts is more onerous so as to provide proper legal
protection to these children. Their physical and mental immobility call for
such protection. Children are the natural resources of our country. They are
the country's future. Hope of tomorrow rests on them. In our country, a girl
child is in a very vulnerable position and one of the modes of her
exploitation is rape besides other modes of sexual abuse. These factors
point towards a different approach required to be adopted. The overturning
of a well considered and well analysed judgment of the trial court on
grounds like non-examination of other witnesses, when the case against the
respondent otherwise stood established beyond any reasonable doubt was
not called for. The minor contradiction of recovery of one or two under

wears wholly insignificant.

9. Countering the above submissions, learned counsel for the accused
raised and pointed out series of contradictions in the evidence of the prosecution
witnesses. He submitted that the accused is totally innocent person who on his way
to home, entered into the house of a villager to recharge his mobile handset and
therefrom, the complainant sides caught him without any reason since they could
apprehend the real culprit. He submitted that the accused never went inside the
house of the complainant let alone attempting to commit sexual offence against
the victim girl. Moreover, there is no proof of the fact that it was the accused who
entered into house of the complainant since there was no identification of the
accused who was apprehended on road as well as, the accused is implicated in to
the false case politically by some local groups. Therefore, the evidence of the

prosecution is sufficient to convict the accused, he maintained.

10. After hearing the above submissions From both sides, it is pertinent
to go through the evidence on record. It is important to note here in the light of
above law that in cases of sexual offences, main thrust has to be given on the victim
person without seeking corroboration From other witnesses, if her evidence is
Found wholly reliable. The prosecution examined the complainant Smri. Gita Kalita
as PWS. She deposed inter-alias in the court that she is the mother of the victim
girl. Further she stated that on the fateful day, she went out for planting seed. Her

younger daughter aged about 7 years went to the school and the victim was alone
o,f
a ws

2 Judge

o-kSa
stare
ise

oOo
—_

rc}

in the house. Her brother Dhanjit Konwar (PW4) resides in front of her house. On
the day of occurrence, PW4 went to the place where she was planting paddy
sapling in the field. Her parental aunt, the mother of PW4, reported her that one
‘Mia’ boy entered into her house and committed some bad thing upon her
daughter/ victim and immediately, she came to her house. She entered into her
house and asked the victim as to what happened. The victim told her that while she
was taking rest on bed, the accused entered into the room and asked for a glass of
water. The victim then warned the accused as to why he entered into the room. The
accused then, closed the door from inside. The accused told the victim that he
loved the victim and proposed to marry her. The victim then got frightened and
told the accused that she would report the matter to her mother and grand-
mother. The accused then, threatened the victim that if she disclosed the matter he
would kill the victim. The accused then, gagged the mouth of the victim and pushed
her into the bed and pressed her breast. The victim could somehow managed to
turn herself and raised shouting calling her uncle, PW4. Hearing the cry of the
victim, PW4 rushed to her house and at that time, the accused taking his snadal, on
his hand, ran away towards the house of Sarala Deka(PW2) and PW4 followed the
accused and apprehended him in the house premises of PW2. The house of PW2 is
situated in front of the Shiv temple of her house. With the help of some people and
Bajrang party, the matter was informed to the police. Hence the police came to her
village and took away the accused to the police station. She went to the police
station with PW4, Leela Deka and Utpal Das and lodged the FIR vide Ext.1 with her
signature. At the time of occurrence, her husband was not present since he was in
Guwahati. The scribe read over the contents of Ext.1 to her and she put her

signature thereon being found correct.

1%. In the cross-examination, PWS stated that she did not see the
occurrence. She got her FIR written by a person of a chamber of an Advocate. At
the time writing of FIR, Kamal Kalita, Utpal Das, Nomal Kalita of student
organisation and others from Bajrang Dal were present. The FIR was lodged at the
instigation of members of student organisation and Bajrang Dal. IF shout is raised in
her house, it can be heard by the neighbours. Thus, it appears that PWS was
reported witness of the occurrence by the victim girl but she proved the FIR so
lodged by her.

12: It appears that the prosecution examined the victim girl as PW6 in
the case. She is main witness of the prosecution case and the sole victim of the
alleged occurrence. (The name of the victim is withheld) There is no dispute that

PWS is the mother of the victim. The victim stated that on the fateful day at about
 

10 am., she was alone in the house since PW5 went to paddy field while her father
went to Guwahati and her younger sister went to school. She did not attend her
school on that day. While she was working in her room, the door of the house
remained opened. The accused came and closed the door. The accused asked her
For a glass of water. The accused told her that he will marry her and asked her not
to raise any noise. Hence, she told the accused that she will report it to her mother.
Thereafter, the accused came forward towards her and told to marry. Then she told
the accused that she will report it her grand-mother. Then the accused threatened
her if she disclosed it to others. After hearing wards of the accused, she shouted to
call her grand-mother but due noise coming from of a saw-mill, running nearby to
house, her grand-mother did not hear her shouting. Then the accused caught her
breast by his one hand and gagged her mouth by his other hand and pulled her
down on the bed. But she somehow managed to escape from the hands of the
accused. She immediately went to the house of her uncle, situated behind her
house and raised alarm to her grand-mother. At that time, her uncle(PW4) came to
his home to have water. PW4 was under impression of something was happened
after having seen her crying and saw the accused running away, followed the
accused to the house of one Rabin Deka and apprehended the accused from the
house of Rabin Deka who is her teacher. PW4 produced the accused before the
local public and inquired him about the incident. PW4 brought her before the
accused and she identified the accused. PW4 reported the incident to other at the
Shiv temple where the accused was held up nearby. When PWS came from paddy
Field, she reported the incident. After informing the incident by PWS, the police

came and took her to record her statement vide Ext.2 with her signatures.

13. Thus, PW6 narrated the story of occurrence which corroborates to
the version of PWS. In the cross-examination, PW6 stated that due to running of a
saw-mill in Front of her house, shouting from her house can not be heard by others
immediately. Often people from the mill comes to her house to collect dao. The
accused entered into her house without calling her From outside. Due to her alarm,
her grand-mother Dipti Konwar came to her house. She reported the incident to her
grand-mother. She could not remember if the accused was a cripple person. She
saw the accused running away. She did not know that the accused was a cripple.
She did not fail in any examination. Thus the evidence of PW6 corroborates the
claim of PWS. It appears from the evidence of PW6 that her uncle being PW4 came
into crime scene immediately after departure of the accused from the house of the

victim.

14. PW4 Sri Dhanjit Konwar is the uncle of PW6. He resided in a house
behind the house of PW6. He stated that on the fateful day, at about 11 am., while
he returned to home from market and had water, he heard hullah raised by PW6 he
then rushed to the house of PWS. At that time, he saw the accused just coming out
of the house of PWS with sandal on his hand and tried to Flee away. He could not
apprehend the accused immediately and he followed the accused. He could
apprehend the accused in the house premise of Sarala Deka(PW2), wife of Rabin
Deka while the accused requesting PW2 to allow him to recharge his mobile. Then
he took the accused to the Shiv mandir of his village. At that time, some people
gathered there. PW6 told him that in the pretext of drinking water, the accused
came inside the room and pulled her down on the bed and embraced her. His sister
lodged the FIR. Some students informed the police who came to the place of

occurrence and took the accused to the police station.

1S: In the cross-examination, PW4 stated that his house and the house
of Sushil Deka are situated near the house of the informant. A saw millis situated in
Front of the house of the informant. At the time of the occurrence, the mill was
running and there was some persons in the mill. While he was following the
accused, his mother and Raju Das were with him. From PW2 he came to know that
the accused asked her to allow recharge of mobile. When he chased the accused,
PW6 was at her house. After 10/15 munities of the occurrence, he could able to
apprehend the accused. About 100 people gathered at the Shiv temple at the
material time. He stated that he did not assault the accused but a person whom the
accused called as 'mama' assaulted the accused. Apparently, the evidence of PW6

is corroborated by the version of PW4.

16. Further, the evidence of PW1 Sri Jitu Das is that on the fateful day,
at noon, on hearing hullah, he came to the road and saw the accused nearby the
Shiv temple with gathering of public who assaulted the accused physically. He came
to know that the accused was assaulted because he entered into the house of the
informant. Thus, the evidence of PW1 corroborates the fact that the accused was
brought near to the village temple. He also, discloses a new fact that the accused

was physically assaulted by the public which does not support the claim of PW4.

17. PW2 Smti. Sarala Deka is the neighbour of PW5 and the accused was
caught by PW4 at her house. She is the wife of Rabin Deka as disclosed by PWS. The
evidence of PW2 is therefore, important for the prosecution case. PW2 stated that
she saw the accused only on the fateful day. At the time of occurrence, at about 10
am., while she was in her home, all of a sudden, the accused came running to her
home and called her to allow recharging his mobile set. Since she did not know the

accused, she immediately refused allow recharging of mobile of the accused. At
that time, PW4 came running to her home and caught the accused. On her inquiry,
PW4 disclosed that the accused entered into the house of PW6.

18. In her cross-examination, PW2 stated that she was alone in her
home at the relevant time. She did not hear any shouting from the house of PW6
since she was inside her home. She saw PW4 apprehended the accused single
handedly. PW4 did not raise any alarm. She did not know from which place, the
accused belongs to. After going through the evidence of PW2, it appears that her
version corroborates the evidence of PW4, 5 and 6 without any elements of lapse

of sequence of event.

19. PW3 Smti. Leela Das stated that she saw the accused at the police
station. At the relevant time, she was busy with cooking at a school. Somebody
informed her that a hullah took place at her village. On the day of occurrence, the
informant proceeded to her school by village road and she was crying. The
informant told her to accompany to the police station and told her that one boy
entered into her house and pulled down her daughter into the bed after gagging
the mouth. Some students also, asked her to accompany the informant to the
police station. Apparently, PW3 went to police station with PWS and she was a

reported witness of occurrence. Her evidence supported the claim of PWS.

20. The evidence of PW7 Sri Atul Konwar is that he came to know from
PWS and his wife Dipti at about 3 pm., on the fateful day that the accused at about
11-30 am., by entering into the house of PWS, tried to rape the victim girl(PW6).
Thus, the evidence of PW7 is hearsay in nature but supported the claim of PWS.

21. On perusal of the evidence of PW8 Nandeswar Kalita, it appears that
he is the Father of PW6. He stated that he came to know about the accused from
the day of occurrence. At the time of occurrence, PW6 was 13 years old. He was in
Guwahati at the time of occurrence. On the fateful day, member of local student
union informed him over phone that one boy under pretext of drinking water,
entered into his house and attempted to rape his daughter and called him to come
to the police station. Accordingly, he came to the police station and saw the
accused. Other villagers were also present there. He was informed that the accused

was involved in the occurrence. PW5 reported him about the occurrence.

22. From the cross-examination, it appears that PW8 disclosed that he
saw the members of local student union. Thus, the evidence of PW8 supports the

case of prosecution although he was a reported witness of the occurrence.
23. The evidence of PW9 Dhrubajyoti Nath, the I/O of the case is that on
19/6/15, while he was working in Baksa district as probationer, on that day, one FIR
was lodged by PWS and the O/C of Tamulpur police station, registered the case
no.111/15 vide Ext.1 and he was endorsed to investigate the case. Accordingly, he
visited the place of occurrence which was the house of the victim girl. He drew a
sketch map of place of occurrence vide Ext.3 with his signature. He recorded the
statement of the witnesses including the victim. He sent the victim for medical
examination and recording her statement u/s 164 CrPC, he collected the copy of
birth certificate of the victim. He arrested the accused. On completion of the
investigation, getting material against the accused u/s 448 IPC u/s 10 of POCSO

Act, filed the charge-sheet against the accused vide Ext.4 with his signature.

24. In the cross-examination, the I/O stated that he arrested the
accused from the place of occurrence where the accused was confined. There was a
saw mill near the place of occurrence but it was not running at the relevant time. In
the light of question of the defence, the I/O controverted that PW4 did not state to
him earlier that the accused asked Sarala Deka to recharge his mobile set. But such
omission is not significant as far as the case of the prosecution is concerned since
PW2(Sarala Deka) disclosed the said fact clearly in her evidence. Further the 1/O
controverted that PWS did not disclose to him earlier that the victim told her that
the accused told her that he loved her and gave proposal of marriage and being
angry, the victim told the accused that she will report it to her mother and grand-
mother and the accused gagged her mouth and pulled down into the bed and
pressed her breast and she raised shouting calling her uncle for help. After
perusing the evidence on material points, it is Found that PWS was not an eye-
witness of the occurrence and neither the prosecution attempted to prove what
was reported by PW6 to PWS, was true and as such, such omission does not erode
the credibility of the prosecution case. Apart from above, the I/O controverted that
the victim girl did not disclose earlier to him that the accused threatened her to kill
and that the accused gagged her mouth and touched her breast and that she was
taken to Shiv mandir in presence of huge gathering and the villagers inquired her
about bring the accused to Shiv mandir. Such omission of the victim will be

considered during the appreciation of evidence as a whole.

a3 Judge

rs La
Baxsa
at wee * “

-

>
4

<

Dp
(
¢

i
wue

25; From the above discussion of the evidence of the prosecution
witnesses, it appears that the case of the prosecution rests on the evidence of
PW2, 4, 5 and 6. Other witnesses are hearsay type in nature though they support
the prosecution case on material points. As far as age of the victim(PW6) is
concerned, it appears from the evidence of PW8 that the victim was 13 years old at

the time of occurrence. There is no dispute that the victim was below 18 years of
 

10

age at the time of occurrence. Thus, it can safely be held that the victim was a

minor at the relevant time within the meaning of POCSO Act.

26. On careful examination of the evidence of the victim(PW6), it
appears that the occurrence took place during broad day light. Hence, the question
of poor visibility of a person does not arise. It is not disputed that PW6 the victim
was alone in her house at the relevant time. It is also, not dispute between the
sides that members of local student union and one Bajrang party present and took
initiative to file the case against the accused. But that does not show any partial
role played by them in filing the FIR against the accused. It appears that since the
informant and her husband did not have the clue for Future course of action against
the accused after the occurrence, the members of those parties helped to file the

FIR in proper manner to set the law in motion.

of. From the evidence of the victim(PW6), it shows that the accused
entered into her house through a opened door. Perhaps, the accused knew that
PW6 was alone in her house. Apparently, the evidence on record does not disclose
that PW6 knew the accused prior to the occurrence or had any terms with each
other. Thus, the conduct of the accused to close the door of the room of PW6
immediately after he entered into her home is relevant u/s 8 of Evidence Act. So it
infers that the accused entered into the house of PW6 who is not known either to
each other. If the accused entered into the house of PW6 and closed the door, what
he did thereafter, is required to assess from the evidence of PW6 since was only
eye-witness and the victim of the occurrence. It appears From the evidence of PW6,
the accused asked her for a glass of water and then, the accused had conversation
with PW6 by proposing her to marry and not to make any noise. It was objected by
PW6 by reporting to her guardians and in the meantime, the accused came near to
her. Then the accused threatened her if she disclosed it to anybody. At this stage,
attention should be drawn to the omission of PW6 in her statement u/s 161 CrPC.,
as disclosed by the I/O. Apparently, PW6 omitted the vital part of sequence of the
occurrence regarding threatening by the accused to her which significantly takes
away her credibility. Thus, such omission contradicts the version of PW6 and
creates doubt on the fact of if the accused caused any threatening to her. Further,
PW6 stated that her mouth was gagged by the accused before pushing into the bed
and he touched her breast. But as per evidence of the I/O, PW6 omitted such vital
part of evidence in her statement recorded u/s 161 CrPC. Apparently, this part of
omission of PW6 also, rodes her reliability as because it is most significant part of
the occurrence as far as the offence for which the accused is charged with, is
concerned. However, omission of PW6 as regards to taking to the Shiv mandir is not

important for discredit her reliability. But at the same time, above omission is truly
11

erodes the reliability of PW6 on the material point of the occurrence.

28. Apart from above, the evidence of PW6 shows that she somehow
managed to escape from the hands of the accused and raised alarm near the house
of PW4. On this point, PW4 corroborates the claim of PW6 as he found PW6 was
seen crying. The Fact that the accused was running away from the house of PW6
with sandal on his hand, is also, supported by PW4. Further the evidence of PW4
that he caught the accused at the house of PW2 while the accused entered into the
house of PW2 under pretext of recharging his mobile hand set. Such act of the
accused is definitely, very suspicious since PW2 did not know the accused at that
time. There is consistency between the evidence of PW6 with the version of PW2
and 4. The defence could not elicit any doubtful elements on their evidence
regarding apprehension of the accused by PW4 at the house of PW2. Thus, it clearly
proved that on the fateful day, at the relevant time, the accused ran away from the
house of PW6 to the house of PW2, carrying his sandal on his hand. But that is not
sufficient to implicate the accused in the offence of sexual assault to PW6 in her
house as she omitted vital aspect of sequences of occurrence which happened in
her house at the behest of the accused. The omissions of PW6 in her previous
statement as referred above, infers that actually the accused only made proposal
of marriage to her by entering into her house without touching her breast, gagging
her mouth and threatening to her. Hence the evidence of PW6 with PW4 makes it
clear that the accused entered into the house of PW5 when PW6 was alone but did
not able touch her body part. What PW6 stated in the court is not reliable to
believe since she omitted to disclose it to the I/O earlier. Such omissions create
doubt if the accused caused any threatening and committed sexual assault within
the provisions u/s 8 of POCSO Act to her. Therefore, it is found that the evidence of
PW6 is not wholly reliable to believe since there is doubt over her version. In view
of existence of doubt in the evidence of PW6 who is the main victim of the
occurrence, the accused is entitled to get the benefit of such doubt on the basis of
evidence of the victim girl. Accordingly, the accused is given the benefit of such
doubt.

29. Under the above facts and circumstances of the case, the
prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt. Hence the accused can not be held guilty u/s 8 of POCSO Act. The accused is
therefore, acquitted and set at liberty. The bail bond of the accused shall remain in
Force u/s 437-A CrPC for another 6 months. This court recommends For payment of
compensation to the victim girl by the DLSA as per relevant rules. Forward a copy

of judgment to the District Magistrate, Baksa, Mushalpur immediately.
12

30. Given under the hand and seal of this court on this 12‘ day of
November 2018.

Dictated and corrected by:

~ocotfassudge onsGudge
i ZassiONns.

Judge, Spéctai Court, Judge, Special Court,
Baksa, Mushalpur Baksa, Mushalpur
Typed by:

P. Deka, Com. Typist
APPENDIX :

13

List of prosecution witness:

PW1...
PW2 ...

PW3

Sri Jitu Das,
Smti. Sarala Deka

... Smti. Leela Das
PW4...
PWS ...
PW6...
PW cas
PW8 ...
PW9...

Sri Dhanjit Konwar

Smti. Gita Kalita ... informant
the victim girl

Sri Atul Konwar

Sri Nandesawr Kalita

Sri Dhrubajyoti Nath ... I/o

List of defence witness:

Nil

List of documents exhibited :

ERE. ccs
Ext.2'..
ExE.S x.
Ext.4...

“wuager spe

FIR

. statement of victim

sketch map

charge-sheet

urt aye te

Linke
Baksa,Mushalpur
