 

ace

Special Judge.
Chirang, Kalaigaon

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE :ztsez2:: CHIRANG, KAJALGAON.

ial (P se No. 44 2
U/S 4 of POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Vs.
SriRanjitSoren nn, Accused

PRESENT: Sri D.J. Mahanta,

Special Judge,
Chirang,
Kajalgaon.

ADVOCATES APPEARED:

For the State ‘ Sri D. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor

For the accused ’ Sti P. Baidya, Ld. Advocate

Date of evidence : 27.07.18, 30.07.18, 01.08.18

Date of Argument —_: 14.08.2018

Date of Judgment _—_: 14.08.2018

JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 24.10.2017, the

informant Smt. Baha Murmu lodged an FIR before Sidli P.S. alleging that on
22.10.2017 at about 3.00 p.m., while Miss ‘x’ (name is withheld), the 16 years
old daughter of the informant was alone at her home, accused Ranjit Soren
from same village came there and took the victim to the backside of her home
and {"gaaging her with a cloth, forcefully committed sexual intercourse rape
upon her. As she was raising hue and cry, some neighbours came to the spot
and caught the accused person. Regarding the matter, a village meeting was
held in the village and in that meeting, the mother of the accused assaulted

the victim, caused serious injury on her person.

2. The matter was informed to the O/C, Sidli Police Station who
accordingly registered a case being numbered as Sidli P.S. Case No. 44/2017
al Judge.
Chirang. Kaialgacr

U/S 376(2)(i)/325 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act and A.S.I. M. Hussain
was entrusted for taking pre-step and the O/C himself was entrusted as 1.0.
to complete the investigation of the case. Accordingly, the 1.0. arrested the
accused, visited the place of occurrence, drew sketch map of the P.O.,
recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical
examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C and after completion
of investigation, submitted charge-sheet against the accused person, namely,
Ranjit Soren U/S 376(2)(i)/325 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.

3, After receiving charge sheet, copies of relevant documents were
furnished to the accused person. Accused person was produced before the
court from jail. On perusal of entire materials on record and hearing both
sides on point of consideration of charge and after having found a prima facie
case, formal charge was framed U/S 4 of POCSO Act against accused Ranjit
Soren. Charge was read over and explained to the accused person to which he
denied to plead guilty.

4. In support of the case prosecution side examined as many as 8
(eight) witnesses including the 1.0.

Following witnesses are examined:-

(1) Sri Suban Hembram as PW 1

(2) Sri Poltan Murmu as PW 2

(3) Victim Miss X (name is withheld)as PW 3
(4) Smt. Baha Murmu as PW 4

(5) Sri Bagal Hembram as PW 5

(6) Sri Meghlal Hasda as PW 6

(7) Sri Suniram Hembram as PW 7

(8) SI Nikhil Ch. Ray (1.0.) as PW 8

5. Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was exhibited as Ext.1.
Seizure list was exhibited as Ext.2. FIR was exhibited as Ext.3, medical report
was exhibited as Ext. 4 and charge-sheet was exhibited as Ext.5. Birth

Certificate of the victim was exhibited as Material Ext.1.
ai Judge.
chirang, Kaiatae

on

6. Defence plea is of total denial. Defence adduced no evidence,
7. Heard argument from both sides.
8. Now point for consideration:-

For the offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act

(i) Whether on 22.10.2017, at about 3.00 P.M., at village
Nimagaon under Sidli P.S. in the house of the informant,
the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on Miss

‘X’ (name is withheld), minor daughter of the informant ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREFOR:-

9, Now, I want to discuss and appreciate the prosecution evidence

on record regarding the point mentioned above.

10. I have already mentioned that in support of the case,
prosecution side examined all total 8 witnesses including the I.0. M.O. was
not examined.

11. In this case, one Baha Murmu lodged FIR stating that accused
committed sexual intercourse with her daughter. Informant was examined as
PW 4. She deposed that occurrence took place in the year 2017 at about 2
PM. She further deposed that at present, age of the victim is 19 years. On the
date of occurrence, she was absent in her home. When she reached her
home, then her younger daughter reported her that victim was taken by some
person. She immediately went to the house of the ‘Gaonburha’ (village
headman). Her daughter and accused were caught by villagers, for which
matter was placed before the ‘Gaonburha’. When she asked her daughter, she
informed that accused had committed rape upon her. ‘Gaonburha’ told them
that matter would be settled but it was not settled, for which she lodged the
FIR after two days from the date of incidence. Police came to the place of
occurrence and seized birth certificate of the victim which was exhibited as
Material Ext. 1. During her cross-examination, she deposed that actually FIR

was written by an Advocate’s clerk. She only signed upon it. It is found that
\8
Af

ai Judge

speci
Chirang. Kal

aigaon

though she knew how to sign, but in FIR, she gave her thumb impression.
During the cross-examination, learned defence counsel pointed out that at the
time of occurrence, age of the victim was above 18 years but she denied.
Another point revealed from her cross-examination is that when she asked her
daughter in the house of’ Gaonburha’, then her daughter did not state
anything to her. She(victim) did not state that accused had committed rape
upon her. Another fact revealed from her cross-examination is that the
Material Ext. 1 was collected from the office by her husband. So, date of birth
of the victim was supplied to the office by her husband. Her husband was not
examined. According to Material Ext.1, the date of birth of the victim is
25.10.1999. Occurrence took place on 22.10.2017. So, on the date of
occurrence, according to Material Ext.1, age of the victim was 17 years, 11
months and 27 days, almost 18 years.

12, Victim was examined as PW 3. She deposed that at the time of
occurrence, she was reading in Class IX at Raja Ajit Narayan High School. On
the date of occurrence i.e. on 22.10.2017, at about 3 PM, she was alone in
her home. Her mother went to the market. Accused came to their home and
forcefully took her to the bamboo garden. Accused told her to keep mum. He
gagged her with a cloth. After that he put off her dress, then she made hue
and cry. Accused committed sexual intercourse with her within the bamboo
grove. Then two villagers witnessed the occurrence. They caught them and
brought to the house of the village headman. After that mother of the accused
came to the house of the village headman and beat her. Her mother also
came to the house of the village headman. According to PW 3, she reported
the incident to her mother. Then her mother lodged the FIR. During her cross-
examination, it is revealed that she failed in Class IX. Both of them were
reading in same class since childhood. It is also revealed from her evidence
that she did not state anything before the villagers in the house of village
headman. Another point revealed during cross-examination of PW 3 is that
she fled away with her cousin brother one year prior to this incident. So, it is
found that victim did not state the entire facts before the village headman
when she was taken there along with the accused. It is also revealed that she

failed in lower classes.
Aad"

al Judge.

13. PW 1 is Suban Hembram, who deposed that on the date of
occurrence, he went to nearby jungle to defecate. Then one Shankar
Hembram informed him that accused along with victim were found in the
jungle. Then he proceeded to the place of occurrence and found that both
accused and victim were making conversation. He immediately reported the
matter to the village headman. Victim did not state anything to them. This
witness further deposed that during the time of investigation, father of the
victim threatened them for which he had stated before the Investigating
Officer that he had seen the occurrence. According to PW 1, at the time of

occurrence, age of the victim was about 19 years.

14. PW 2 Sri Poltan Murmu deposed that occurrence took place at
about 2 PM. On the date of occurrence he was sleeping in his home. PW 1
called him to the place of occurrence. He reached the spot and found that the
accused and victim were standing in the jungle. This witness also stated that
victim did not state anything to them. According to PW 2, at the time of
occurrence, age of the victim was 18/19 years. During his cross-examination,
this witness stated that both accused and victim were reading in same class

prior to the incident.

15. PW 5 is the village headman of Nimagaon, Batabari village. He
deposed that on the date of occurrence, victim was reading in Class IX and
she failed three times in Class IX. On the date of occurrence, he was in his
home. One Soban Hembram brought the accused along with victim to his
home. They reported him that both the accused and victim were found in the
jungle when they were gossiping. He asked both the accused and the victim
that what was doing by them within the jungle. They did not give any reply.
After that both parents of the accused and mother of victim came to his
home. He handed over the accused and victim to their respective guardians.
This witness clearly stated that when he asked the victim and accused about

the actual fact, then they became silent.

16. PW 6 heard about the incident. He had no direct knowledge.
PW 7 deposed that he heard on next day.
Aad

al Judges.
Chirang, Kajalgaor

17. PW 8 is the Investigating Officer, who deposed that on
04.01.2011, he was serving as I/C, Garubhasa out Post. On that day, O/C,
Sidli P.S. entrusted him for investigation in connection with Sidli P.S. Case No.
44/17. After taking the charge of investigation, he found that already earlier
I/O started investigation by recording the statements of the witnesses and
collecting medical examination report. Earlier 1.0. also drew sketch map. This
witness only submitted charge-sheet U/S 376(2)(i) of IPC R/W Section 4 of
POCSO Act. He also arrested the accused and examined two witnesses. The
PW 8 also exhibited the medical report and charge-sheet as Ext.4 & 5
respectively. According to Ext.4, age of the victim was mentioned as 18 years.
During the examination-in-chief, PW 3, the victim stated that when accused
put off her dress, she made hue and cry but learned defence counsel during
cross-examination pointed out that she did not state before the I.0. that she
made hue and cry at the time when accused put off her dress. This fact was
confirmed by PW 8. According to learned defence counsel, delay was not
explained in FIR or before the 1.0. The I.0. after perusing the case diary,
confirmed this fact.

18. After going through the entire evidence on record, I have found
that victim knew the accused from her childhood. It is also revealed from the
evidence on record that both accused and victim were reading in same school
and in same class. They knew each other very well. It is also found from the
evidence of the independent witnesses that at first, victim did not state
anything to anybody else. Her mother also stated during cross-examination
that victim did not state to her in the house of village headman that accused
had committed rape upon her. The victim stated two facts. At first, she stated
that accused told her to keep mum. On the other hand, she stated that
accused gagged her with a cloth. Age of the victim is found to be about 18
years considering the Material Ext.1 and the Ext.4. So, from the documentary,
oral and medical evidence, it is found that age of the victim was about 18
years. It is also found that she did not make hue and cry at the time of
occurrence because PW 1 and PW 2 did not state that victim made hue and
cry. Therefore, the statement of victim that she made hue and cry is not
believable. It is also revealed from the cross-examination of victim that she

knew the accused and accused called her and she went out along with him.
(%
a«é
Judas,

Chiang. Kalaigoon

When PW 1 and PW 2 noticed the victim and accused, both of them were
standing and were making conversation. Initially victim did not state that
accused had committed sexual intercourse with her. After filing the case,
victim stated that that accused had committed sexual intercourse with her
forcefully. No any reliable evidence is found in this regard. Village headman
also stated that when he asked about the actual incident, then victim did not
state anything. She was silent. So, entire story has come under the shadow of
doubt. Victim is not found as wholly reliable witness. She further deposed that
one year prior to this incidence she fled away with her cousin brother which
reflects the nature of the victim. Independent witness failed to support the
prosecution version of the case. It is revealed from the evidence on record
that age of victim was about 18 years. No cogent evidence is found to believe
the prosecution story as true story. So, allegation made against accused is
found to be baseless. Victim and her mother did not state specifically that
accused had committed sexual intercourse with the victim. So, prosecution
failed to bring home the charge U/S 4 of POCSO Act against accused. The
point mentioned above is remained as not proved. Accused is not found guilty.

ORDER

19, Prosecution failed to prove the case U/S 4 of POCSO Act
against the accused Ranjit Soren. Accused is acquitted and set at liberty.
Accused is directed to furnish bail bond of Rs. 10,000/- with one suitable
surety of the like amount for a period of six months as required U/S 437(A)
Cr.P.C.

Accused is in judicial custody. So, jail authority is directed to release the
accused Ranjit Soren forthwith, if he is not required in any other case subject
to submission of bail bond.

20. A copy of this Judgment and Order shall be furnished to the
District Magistrate, Chirang for information.
Zi. Given under my sign and seal of this Court on this the 14" day
of August, 2018, at Kajalgaon, Chirang.

Ey oraanore
a

Dictated and corrected by me,

6

iv
(D.J. Mahanta)

Special Judge
Chirang. en
APPENDIX

 

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Sri Suban Hembram

PW 2 — Sri Poltan Murmu

PW 3 — Victim Miss X (name is withheld)
PW 4—Smt. Baha Murmu

PW 5 — Sri Bagal Hembram

PW 6 — Sri Meghlal Hasda

PW 7 — Sri Suniram Hembram

PW 8 — SI Nikhil Ch. Ray (1.0.)

Exhibit (Prosecution):

Ext-1 Statement of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext-2 Seizure list

Ext-3 FIR

Ext-4 Medical report
Ext-5 Charge-sheet

Material Exhibit (Prosecution ):

Material Ext-1 Birth Certificate of the victim

Defence Witness:
Ni

Defence Exhibit:
Nil

x73 é ,
(D.J. Mahanta)

Special Judge,
Shen, su gs.
Gnrirang. Kaiaigaor
