Page 1 of 20

THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of
accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

-Vs-

16 of 2015

(Under Section 10 of POCSO Act, arising out
of G.R. Case No 2870 of 2012)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special judge, Sonitpur, Tezpur

State of Assam

Sri Ramani Medhi

Son of Late Mohan Medhi

Resident of Mulanpukhuri

Police Station — Rangapara

Dist :- Sonitpur, Assam.

27/07/2015

14/12/2015, 20/01/2016, 04/03/2016,
19/04/2016,

09/12/2016, 08/06/2017,

17/08/2017 & 24/10/2017

08/12/2017

23/05/2018

31/05/2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor, Sonitpur

Mr. P.Singh Sethi, Learned Advocate
Page 2 of 20

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Ramani Medhi is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 10 of POCSO Act.
2. The various facts leading to this case according to FIR in brief is

that on or about 5 p.m. of 29-11-2012 the accused by enticing the
informant’s daughter Miss X, aged about 4 years, took to his house and
by opening her clothes committed sexual assault on her. At the relevant
time his wife Pranita Tanti searched their daughter and found the
accused and the victim girl in naked condition. In this regard a village
meeting was held on 01-12-2012 and during the meeting the sister of
the accused namely Lakhi Das misbehaved his wife and assaulted her.
Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by informant Rana
Tanti before the then 1/C of Chariduar Police Out Post on 01-12-2012.

3. On receipt the ejahar the I/C Chariduar P.S. forwarded the same
to O/C Rangapara Police station for registering a case. On receipt of the
said FIR, Rangapara PS registered the case, vide Rangapara PS Case
No. 205/12, under Section 342/417/376(2(F)/294/323/34 of the IPC.
After completion of usual investigation, the O/C Chariduar Police station
sent up the case for trial against the accused Ramani Medhi u/s
342/376(2)(F)/511 of IPC read with Section 7 of POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused person before this Court after
hearing both parties, my learned predecessor-in-Court, framed charge
under section 10 of POCSO Act against the accused. Particulars of the
charge are read over and explained to which he pleads not guilty and
claimed to be tried.

Se To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 11
(eleven) numbers of witnesses. Accused pleads total denial while his
statement was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegation made against
the accused and evidence appears against the accused are put before
him where he denied the evidence and declined to give defence
evidence.

6. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned counsel

for both parties.
Page 3 of 20

7. The point for decision in this case is that :
(i) Whether on or about 6 p.m. on 29-11-2012, at

Mulanpukhuri in the house of the accused, under Chariduar
Police station, accused committed aggravated sexual assault
on victim, aged about 4 years of age, and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 10 of POCSO
Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision

 

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.
9. PW- 1, Miss X, the victim who was examined after making

enquiry to test her intelligence and ability to give rational answers. She
stated before the court that she called the accused as “Borpa”. At the
relevant time she was reading in class L.K.G and aged about four years.
The incident took place in the evening time. Her Borpa called her from
the road to his room. He opened her clothes, laid her down in his bed,
opened his pant and touched her private parts through his sexual organ.
When she was in naked condition in bed, her mother found her and
taken her. She was medically examined and brought to the court and
gave statement in the court.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions the evidence as to at the relevant time accused
called her from the road to his room where he opened her clothes, laid
her down in his bed, opened his pant and touched her private parts
through his sexual organ has remained same.

10. PW 2 Smti Pranita Tanti, the mother of the victim girl stated
that the incident occurred on 29-11-2012 at about 4.30- 5 p.m. At that
time her daughter was 4 years old. At that time her daughter was
playing near the road side. She was not wearing any sweater.
Therefore, she went to her house to bring a sweater. But when she
came there she did not find her. She searched here and there and then
she went to the house of Ramani Medhi which is a little distance from

the road. She searched everywhere by calling her name. She saw her
Page 4 of 20

“chandal” near the door of the house of Ramani Medhi. She entered
inside his house and saw both the accused and her daughter in a naked
condition on the bed. On seeing her, the accused covered himself with a
“gamosa”. Thereafter, she took her daughter on her lap. She was
shivering with fear. She slapped her and asked her what happened. She
told her that accused whom she called “Borpa” has removed her clothes
and put his private part on her private part. She informed her husband
over telephone as he was not present in the house. She scolded the
accused but he did not uttered a single word. She also informed her
brother-in-law. On the next day, i.e. on 01-12-2012 a village meeting
was called. In the meeting the sister of the accused assaulted her. On
the same day, her husband lodged an FIR at Chariduar Police Out Post.
They used to call their victim daughter as “Munu” in their house. Police
medically examined her daughter in Tezpur Civil Hospital on the next
day of filing FIR. Her daughter was also brought before Magistrate for
recording her statement. Her statement was also recorded by
Magistrate. Ext. 1 is her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C and Ext. 1(1) to 1(4)

are her signatures.

Though PW 2 has been exposed to long cross-examination
except giving many suggestions the evidence as to at the relevant time
her daughter was playing near the road side, as her daughter did not
wearing any sweater, she went to her house to bring a sweater, when
she came there she did not find her daughter and continuously searched
her daughter and then she went to the house of the accused where she
saw her daughter’s “chandal” was near the door of the accused’s
house, on being entered she saw both the accused and her daughter in
naked condition on the bed, on seeing her, accused covered himself
with a “Gamosa” and thereafter she took her daughter in her lap, she
was shivering with fear, she slapped and asked her daughter what
happened then she told her that accused removed her clothes and

touched her private parts through his private parts has remained same.
Page 5 of 20

11. PW 3 Dr. Ila Rajkhowa stated that on 03-12-2012 she was
posted as Sr. Medical & Health Officer in the Kanaklata Civil Hospital,
Tezpur and on that day, in the emergency outdoor, labour room
complex of KCH, Tezpur, she examined Miss X, 4 years, D/O Sri Rana
Tanti of village Molanpukhuri, PS- Rangapara, on being escorted and
identified by Woman Home Guard Bina Bora. On physical examination
she found the following:

She is neat and tidy and well dressed. Her gait is normal. Since
she is child cannot verify her secondary sexual character. There are no
violence or injury marks in any parts of her body or in her private parts.
Investigation advised and reports:

Since she is a child she does not co-operate for PV examination
therefore vaginal smear could not be collected.

Urine for HCG test — negative.

X-ray for age determination — Age of the person under
investigation appears to be below 6 years.

Opinion:
1. There is no sign of violence on her body as well as on
her private parts.
2. There is no sign of recent sexual intercourse.

Ext. 2 is the Medical Report and Ext. 2(1) is his signature. Ext. 3

is the Sonography report. Ext. 4 is the X-ray report.
12. PW-4 Sri Rana Tanti, father of the victim and complainant of
this case, stated that the incident occurred on 29-11-2012 at about 5
p.m. At that time her daughter was 4 years old. At the time of the
incidence he was at his shop at Balipara. His wife Pranita Tanti informed
him over telephone that the accused had taken his daughter Munu to
his house and after removing her clothes tried to sexually molest her.
He immediately came to his house. His wife informed that she has found
their daughter in a naked condition on the bed of the accused. The
accused was wearing only a “Gamosa” and in that condition his wife
brought back her daughter. Her daughter also told him about the
incident. The villagers after coming to know about the incident, called a

village meeting on 01-12-2012 at about 5 p.m. In that village meeting,
Page 6 of 20

the sister of the accused namely, Lakhi Medhi came and assaulted his
wife and the matter could not be discussed in the village meeting.
Therefore, he lodged an FIR in the Chariduar Police Station. The FIR
was written by a person whose name he did not know, as per his
instruction. The delay in lodging FIR was due to the fact that he was
hopeful for getting decision in the village meeting. But as nothing could
be decided in the village meeting, he lodged the FIR. Ext. 5 is the FIR
and Ext. 5(1) is his signature.

In cross-examination, he admitted that in the FIR he has not
mentioned about the delay in lodging the FIR. The FIR was written by a
“Mohori” of the police Station. The FIR was lodged after the meeting.
The FIR was filed in the evening at about 6-30 to 7 p.m. on 01-12-2012.
His daughter used to call the accused as “Borpa”. He knew that the
accused was suffering from ailments since 1996-1997 but he did not
know about the nature of the ailments.

13. | PW-5 is Sri Ghana Borah, who is turned hostile. The unhostile
portion of his evidence is that he knows the accused Ramani Medhi.
The incident occurred about three years ago. He came to know about
the incident in the evening. He also knows the victim. He heard the
incident from the villagers that the accused committed rape on the
victim. Pranita did not tell anything to him about the incident.

14.  PW-6 Smti Sitarani Biswas, stated that accused Ramani Medhi
is her neighbour. The informant Rana Tanti is also her neighbour. The
occurrence took place in the month of November, 2012. She was
working in her kitchen garden. She had heard that the mother of the
victim girl was loudly crying in the road. She came out to see and met
Pranita Tanti. On being asked, Pranita told that the accused had
committed rape upon her four years daughter. She also told that the
accused had committed the said act in his house.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination by
defence except giving many suggestion the evidence as to when she
was working in the kitchen garden she heard the crying of the mother of

the victim and when she came out and on being asked, the mother of
Page 7 of 20

the victim Pranita told that accused had committed rape upon her four
years old daughter has remained unchallenged.
15. PW-7 Smti Manju Tanti, stated that she knows the accused
Ramani Medhi is her neighbour. The informant Rana Tanti is also her
neighbour. The occurrence took place about four years ago. It was
about 5 p.m. The mother of the victim was shouting loudly. On hearing
she came out of her house. She told that the accused had removed the
clothes of her daughter and was about to commit rape upon her
daughter. She further told that she had gone to the house of the
accused at that point of time and on seeing the aforesaid fact she raised
hue and cry. After two days of the said occurrence, a meeting was held
in their village to discuss about the matter. In the said meeting the
sister of the accused had quarreled with the mother of the victim girl.
Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination by
defence except giving many suggestion the evidence as to on being
hearing the shouting of mother of the victim while she came out, she
came to know from her that accused had removed the clothes of her
daughter and was about to commit rape upon her daughter has
remained unchallenged.
16. PW 8, the Investigating Officer, Sri Kulendra Bharali, stated
before this court that on last 05-09-2014 he was posted as SI of police
at Chariduar Police station and he was entrusted to investigate the
Chariduar PS case NO. 152/13. It appears that SI Hasen Ali has almost
completed the investigation of this case, so finding sufficient materials
against the accused he filed chargesheet against the accused Ramani
Medhi u/s 342/376(2)(F)/511 of IPC read with section 7 of POCSO Act.
Ext. 6 is the chargesheet and Ext. 6(1) is his signature.
17. PW 9, the Investigating Officer, Sri Hasen Ali, stated before this
court that on last 16-12-2012 he was posted as SI of police at Chariduar
Police station and he was entrusted to investigate the Rangapara PS
case NO. 205/12 u/s 417/376 of IPC by the O/C. During investigation,
he arrested the accused on 17-12-2012 and recorded his statement. In
the statement of the accused, he confessed his guilty. Thereafter on

receiving his transfer order, he handed over the case diary to the O/C.
Page 8 of 20

18. PW 10, the Investigating Officer, Sri Lakhi Kanta Borah, stated
before this court that on last 01-12-2012 he was posted as I/C at
Chariduar Police Out Post under Rangapara Police station. On that day
at about 6 p.m. the complainant Rana Tanti filed a written ejahar stating
that on last 29-11-2012 at about 5 p.m. his co-villager Ramani Medhi by
enticing his daughter took to his house and by opening her clothes
sexually assaulted her. Ext. 5 is the ejahar and Ext. 5(2) is his signature
with note. He made GD Entry being No. 16 dated 01-12-2012 at about 6
p.m. and forwarded the ejahar to O/C Rangapara Police for registering a
case. O/C of Rangapara PS registered the case vide Rangapara PS Case
No. 205/12 u/s 342/417/376(2)(F)/294/323/34 of the IPC and Ext. 5(3)
is the signature of O/C of Rangapara PS Sri Lambit Gogoi. He has
recorded the statement of the complainant at the police station. He
visited the place of occurrence at Mulanpukhuri and prepared sketch
map vide Ext. 6 A and Ext. 6 A(1) is his signature. He recorded the
statement of the victim and other witnesses. The victim was medically
examined and the statement of the mother of the victim was also
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. As he did not found the main accused Ramani
Medhi so he could not arrest him but he arrested the co-accused Smti
Lakhi Das. On his transfer he handed over the case diary to the then
O/C Rangapara Police station.

He confirmed the statement of witness Ghana Kanta Bora, who
stated before him that — “on /ast 29-11-2012 at about 5 p.m. I was
thrashing paddy at my house. My house Is situated near the house of Sri
Rana Tanti. At the relevant time the Pranita Tanti wife of Rana Tanti
came and informed me that the co-villager Ramani Medhi took her
minor daughter (four years old) Munu to his house and in his bed did
bad act on her by opening her clothes.”

Ext. 7 is the statement of witness Ghana Kanta Bora u/s 161
Cr.P.C. and Ext. 7(1) is his signature.

19. PW 11 Mr. M. Dekadoloi is the learned Sub Divisional Judicial
Magistrate (M), Bojali stated that on 04-12-12 she was working as
Judicial Magistrate, 1% class, Tezpur and on that day in reference to

Rangapara PS Case No. 205/12, she has examined one witness i.e. the
Page 9 of 20

victim namely Miss Pomi Tanti, D/O Sri Rana Tanti, aged about 4 years
as per direction of the then i/c CJM, Sonitpur, Tezpur. As the victim was
only 4 years old, so to ascertain the understanding of the victim, she
asked her some questions and make an enquiry and after satisfaction as
to her ability and to give rational answer and intelligence, she has
recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. at her court chamber. After
recording her statement she has read over the contents of the
statement and on satisfaction she put her thumb impression in presence
of her. On the same date and same reference she has also recorded the
statement of one Pranita Tanti, mother of the victim, W/O Sri Rana
Tanti under section 164 Cr.P.C. in the court chamber. After recording
her statement, she has read over the contents of the statement to her
and on acceptance she put her signature thereon. Ext. 7 A is the
statement of the victim and Ext. 1 is the statement of the mother of the
victim Pranita Tanti. Ext. 7 A(1) and Ext. 1(5) is her signature. Ext. 8 is
the relevant order dated 03-12-12 and Ext. 8(1) is her signature. Ext. 9
is the order dated 04-12-12 for recording the statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
and Ext. 9(1) and 9(2) are her signatures

In cross-examination, she admitted that Ext. 7 is silent as to the
identifier of the victim. She has fully satisfied about the quarry made to
the victim girl whether she will be able to give statement before her in a
maturity.
20. These much is the evidence of prosecution
21. Defence plea is total denial while his statement was recorded u/s
313 Cr.P.C.
22. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. . Firstly,
there is only one eye witness in this case. Secondly, there is a vast
discrepancy in the statement among the prosecution witnesses. Thirdly,
there is also many contradictions among the statements of the
prosecution witnesses. Fourthly, there is no corroboration among the
statement of witnesses. Fifthly, accused was not clearly identified by

victim. And Lastly, there is no any evidence of penetrative sexual
Page 10 of 20

assault even there is no any evidence to implicate the accused in the
offence of sexual assault. Hence, accused is required to be acquitted.
23. On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur,
Tezpur submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond
any reasonable doubt. Firstly, the victim clearly narrated about the
incident before the I.0., before the learned Magistrate and before this
court. Secondly, inspite of the victim, PW 2, the mother of the victim
herself seen the accused slept with her minor daughter where both of
them were found naked. Despite that, the parents of the victim clearly
stated about the incident. To rely the interested witnesses in convicting
the accused, learned Special P.P. submitted the case of Gali
Venkataiah Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh reported in 2008 Crl.L.J.
690. In regard to minor discrepancies, learned Special PP also
submitted the case law of State of UP V. Krishna Master & ors
reported in 2010 Crl.L.J.3889.

24. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the learned
counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as
follows.

25. After going through the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses, it is
seen except the victim, there is no other eye witness but according to
the PW 2, the mother of the victim while her daughter was missing, she
vigorously searched and when she noticed the chandal of her victim
daughter in the front side of the house of the accused, she went there,
witnessed accused and victim slept together in a bed without putting
any clothes. Thereafter on being seen the PW 2 by the accused, the
accused immediately covered himself with a “Gamosa”. Then she took
her on her lap, she slapped her and asked her what happened, then the
victim reported that “Borpa” (accused) has removed her clothes and put
his private parts on her private parts. Then she informed the matter to
her husband over telephone as he was not present in the house. She
scolded the accused but did not utter a single word. She also informed
her brother-in-law. On the next day, i.e. on 01-12-2012 a village was
called and in the said meeting the sister of the accused assaulted her.

On the same day, her husband filed the ejahar before the police station.
Page 11 of 20

After instituting the case her statement was recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
through the learned Magistrate. Though the aforesaid PW 2 was
exposed to long cross-examination, the evidence as to while the victim
was playing near the roadside without putting sweater, PW 2 bring one
sweater but she did not find her. She searched her daughter here and
there then she went to the house of the accused which is at a little
distance from the road, she searched her daughter everywhere by
calling her name, she saw the chandal of her daughter near the door of
the house of the accused, then she entered inside the house and saw
both the accused and her daughter were found in naked on bed and on
being seen her accused covered himself with a “Gamosa” has remained
unchallenged.

Similarly, though PW1, the victim was exposed to long cross-
examination, the evidence as to at the relevant time accused called her
form the road to his room when he opened her clothes, laid her down in
his bed, opened his pant and touched her private parts through his
sexual male organ, when she was in naked condition in bed, her mother
found her and taken her has remained unchallenged.

26. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the FIR filed by

the informant on 01-12-2012 whereas the incident took place on 29-11-

2012 but the FIR did not disclose as to any explanation for two days
delay in lodging the same.

27. In state Vs. Gurmit Sing, the Hon’ble Apex Court, stated that

“The court cannot over looked the fact that in sexual

offence, delay in lodging the FIR can be due to variety of

reasons particularly the reluctant of the prosecutrix or her family

members to go to the police and complained about the incident

which concern the reputation of the prosecutrix and the honour

of her family. It is only after giving it a cool thought that a

complaint of sexual assault is generally lodged.”

In the instant case, the complainant, PW 4 Sri Rana Tanti, the
father of the victim, filed the ejahar on 01-12-2012 on being came to

know about the incident from his wife though the incident took place on
Page 12 of 20

29-11-2012, at about 5 p.m. Here in the present case the informant
lodged the ejahar after two days of the incident whereas he came to
know about the incident on the very day from his wife. Besides, there is
an implied and direct evidence that for the incident they have convened
a village meeting in the next day but the matter was not settled. Rather,
sister of the accused Lakhi Medhi assaulted the wife of the informant
and misbehaved her. Under such circumstances, two nights delay in
lodging the ejahar cannot be a ground to discard the prosecution story.
28. Learned counsel for the accused argued that the victim is a
minor girl and changed her version in different times, before the police,
before the Magistrate and even in the Court as such, her statement
cannot be considered to convict the accused.

29. —__Here in the present case, as details discussed herein before, the
victim clearly stated that in the evening time her “Borpa” (accused)
called her from the road to his room, he opened her clothes, laid her
down in his bed, opened his pant and touched her private parts through
his sexual organ, when she was in naked condition in bed, her mother
found her and taken her.

PW 2, mother of the victim also stated that at the relevant time
the victim was found playing near the roadside without putting any
sweater, then she went to her house to bring a sweater but when she
came she did not find her daughter. She searched here and there and
then she went to the house of accused which is a little distance from the
road, she searched everywhere by calling her name at last she saw her
“chandal” near the door of the house of accused and she entered inside
the house and saw both the accused and her daughter in a naked
condition on the bed. On being seen her accused covered himself with a
“gamosa”. Thereafter, she took her daughter on her lap. Therefore, it is
not only the victim but also the PW 2 mother of the victim also seen
both the accused and victim slept in a bed without putting any clothes.
The incident took place in the winter season, in the last part of month of
December. In such a winter season it is surprised to see both the victim

and the accused found slept without putting their clothes.
Page 13 of 20

Besides, it appears that the statement of the victim is
corroborated with the statement made before the police and also before
the learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Similarly, the statement of PW
2, mother of the victim also corroborated with her statement made
before the police and also before the learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Though the victim has been exposed to long cross-examination but her
evidence as to at the relevant time accused called her form the road to
his room when he opened her clothes, laid her down in his bed, opened
his pant and touched her private parts through his sexual male organ
has remained unchallenged.
30. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the age of the victim as they have not been seized
any school certificate or Birth certificate of victim to ascertain the age.
Therefore, the case cannot be stated to be fallen under POCSO Act.
31. It is true that in the present case there is no documents like Birth
certificate or age certificate or any certificate issued by the School
authority where the victim last studied or any certificate issued by local
Panchayat etc. to prove the victim that she was 4 years of age at the
time of incident. But the PW 3, the Doctor who opined that the age of
the person under investigation appears to be below 6 years. The victim
stated before the learned Magistrate while recording her statement u/s
164 Cr.P.C. she was 4 years old. Again, while her statement was
recorded in the court i.e. on 14-12-2015 she stated that she was 7 years
old. The incident took place on 29-11-212 so her age would have been
according to her statement was about 4 years. That has not been
challenged by defence at any point of time. Therefore, it can safely be
held that the victim was a minor.
32. Inthe case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State, represented
by the Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD) No.98 of 2015, it
was held that —

“it is true that primary evidence to prove the date of birth
of the individual may be preferably the birth certificate. But, it
cannot be said that in absence of birth certificate, the date of

birth cannot be proved. When the age of the individual is not
Page 14 of 20

disputed, the question of proving the same does not arise at all.
It is the settled law that a fact in issue or any relevant fact or
any fact relevant to the issue, which is disputed by the adverse
party alone, needs proof. If it is not disputed, there is no need to
lead any evidence in proof of the said admitted fact.”
33. In this case, the victim and her parents categorically stated the
age of the victim was about 4 years from the very beginning of the case,
at the time of commission of offence, besides during cross-examination,
the same has not been disputed at all by the accused side. Thus, the
evidence of PW 1, PW 2 and PW 4 in respect of age of the victim
remains unchallenged.
34. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the
material particulars with regard to the incident that on the day of
incident, while she was playing on the road, accused called her and took
her to his room where accused laid her down on a bed and undressed
her. He also put off his clothes and touched the victim’s private parts
through his male sexual organ. While PW 2 searching her daughter
came to the house of the accused and both the victim and accused was
found naked, slept in the same bed, immediately on being seen her,
accused himself covered him with a “Gamosa”, then PW 2 taken her
daughter on her lap, slapped her daughter and took her daughter to her
house where the victim stated about the whole incident to her mother
and her mother also informed the matter to her father over telephone.
The victim also made such statement before the I.0. while her
statement was recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C. and she has also made such
statement before the learned Magistrate when her statement was
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Similarly, the statement made before the I.O.
u/s 161 Cr.P.C. by PW 2 and before the Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. is
corroborated. Though both of them have been vigorously cross-
examined but the aforesaid evidence as stated by victim and her mother
has remained unchallenged. There is nothing in the evidence of said
PWs that accused had any enmity or quarrel with the complainant to file
the case falsely against the accused. Therefore, defence of false

allegation is not made out.
Page 15 of 20

35. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan Vs. Babu
Muna (2013) 4 SCC 206, has observed as under :-

“9. We do not have any slightest hesitation in accepting the
broad submission of Mr. Jain that the conviction be based on the sole
testimony of the prosecutrix, it found to be worthy of credence and
reliable and for that no corroboration is required. It has often been said
that oral testimony can be clarified into three categories, namely, (i)
wholly reliable, (ii) whole unreliable and (iii) neither wholly reliable nor
wholly unreliable. In case of wholly reliable testimony of single witness,
the conviction can be found without corroboration. This principle applies
with greater in terms in case the nature of offence is such that it is
committed in seclusion. In case prosecution is based on wholly
unreliable testimony of single witness but the court has no option to
acquit the accused.”

36. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of
accused is not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered
much as prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of
all reasonable doubts. However, in a case under POCSO Act, the
situation is not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to refer to the
provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

37. U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain
offences and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person
has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the
case may be, unless the contrary is proved.

38. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special
Court shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state
of the accused where culpable mental state is required on the part of

the accused. Section 30 reads as under:
Page 16 of 20

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any
prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume
that existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the
accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect
to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved

only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt
and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of
probabilities.
39. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be
recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness or not? Such issue was
dealt by the Hon’ble Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of U.P.,
(2008) 16 SCC, which are reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On the
contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may
testify — all persons shall be competent to testify unless the Court
considers that they are prevented from understanding the questions put
to them, or from giving rational answers to those questions, by tender
years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind, or any other
cause of the same kind.”

40. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has
intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational answers
thereto. The evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected
per se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with
close scrutiny and only on being convinced about the quality thereof and
reliability can record conviction, based thereon.

41. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra,
(1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that a child witness if found competent
to depose to the facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis
of conviction. In other words, even in the absence of oath the evidence
of a child witness can be considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act

provided that such witness is able to understand the questions and able
Page 17 of 20

to give rational answer thereof. The evidence of a child witness and
credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of each case.
The only precaution which the Court should bear in mind while assessing
the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a reliable one
and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent witness and
there is no likelihood of being tutored.

42. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs —
State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that-

“the decision on the question whether the child witness has

sufficient intelligence primarily rests with the trial Judge who

notices his manners, his apparent possessions or lack of
intelligence, and the said Judge may resort to any examination
which will tend to disclose his capacity and intelligence as well as
his understanding of the obligation of an oath.”
43. In the present case, at the time of examination of the victim,
some questions were put to her and she replied the same without any
hesitation and after confirming her intelligence and ability to give
rational answers, the court has recorded her statement. Apart from that,
other witnesses including the eye witness PW 2 and reported witnesses
PW 4, PW 5, PW 6 and PW 7, all were supported the evidence of victim
PW 1.

Here in the present case as discussed above, the evidence as to
at the relevant time while the victim was playing, “Borpa” (accused)
called her from the road to his room, he opened her clothes, laid her
down in his bed, opened his pant and touched her private parts through
his sexual organ and in the mean time while PW 2 in searching her
victim daughter entered into the house of the accused, she found both
the accused and the victim in bed without putting any dress and on
being seen her, accused covered his body with a “Gamosa’!

44. On appreciation of the evidence given by the victim, her mother
PW 2, PW 4 father of the victim and other independent witnesses i.e.
PWs 5,6 and 7, it comes to the conclusion that it is the accused who
attempt to commit sexual assault to the victim. The doctor clearly stated

that there is no any sign of violence on her body as well as on her
Page 18 of 20

private parts and there is no sign of recent sexual intercourse.
Therefore, I think that the prosecution has failed to prove the
ingredients of section 10 of the POCSO Act.

45. In regard to the age of the victim, it appears that as stated
above, the victim as well as parents of the victim all were stated that the
victim is about 12 years of age but there is no documentary proof as to
her age. Under such circumstances, it proved beyond all shadow of
doubt that accused attempted to commit the offence of attempt to
sexual assault to victim at the relevant time.

46. Considering the aforesaid aspect, the offence of the accused
cannot be stated to be attempted to commit aggravated sexual assault
but attempt to commit sexual assault. Therefore, accused Sri Ramani
Medhi is acquitted from the alleged charge u/s 10 of the POCSO Act but
accused Sri Ramani Medhi is convicted u/s 18 of the POCSO Act.

47. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he praying
for leniency stating that he has his wife, children and he is the only
bread earner of his family and he has been in custody for long time,
hence, praying for leniency.

48. I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well as learned
Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur.

49. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court
should strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the
crime and mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case,
so far as the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor girl was
sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only to the body
but also to the mind of not only to the victim but that of entire family
members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the accused
was hardly 58 years of age at the time of the incident. It is not brought
to the notice of this Court that before this incident, the accused had
committed any other offence. There is likelihood of his reformation, but
the statute u/s.18 of POCSO Act a punishment for any description

provided for the offence, for a term which may extend to one-half of the
Page 19 of 20

imprisonment for life or, as the case may be, one-half of the longest
term of imprisonment provided for that offence or with fine or with both.
ORDER

50. I convict the accused Sri Ramani Medhi u/s. 18 of POCSO Act
and sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 3 (three) months and
to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand only) in default
Rigorous Imprisonment for 2(two) months.

It appears from the record that the accused has been in custody
since 17-12-2012 to 18-03-2013

The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from
the period of imprisonment, imposed on him.
51. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement of
witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an
amount of Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees twenty five thousand) only is awarded
as compensation. The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority,
Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to give the compensation to the father of the
victim after proper enquiry.
52. A copy of this Judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost
and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur,
as per provisions of law.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 31% day
of May, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
See Ao SY hp

PP

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8
Prosecution Witness No.9
Prosecution Witness No.10
Prosecution Witness No.11

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2,3 & 4
Exhibit 5
Exhibit 6
Ext.6 A
Exhibit 7

161 Cr.P.C.
Exhibit 7 A
Exhibit 8
Exhibit 9

Page 20 of 20

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

= Victim

i Smti Pranita Tanti

'- Dr. Ila Rajkhowa,

‘ Sri Rana Tanti, complainant
- Sri Ghana Borah

= Smti Sitarani Biswas,

= Smti Manju Tanti,

ie Sri Kulendra Bharali, I.O.
- Sri Hasen Ali, 1.0.

- Sri Lakhi Kanta Borah, I.O.
- Mrs. M. Dekadoloi, SDJM.

EXHIBITS.
164 Cr.P.C. statement of Pranita Tanti

:- Medical, Sonography and X-ray Report.

:- FIR

:- Chargesheet.

:- Sketch map

:- statement of witness Ghana Kanta Bora u/s

:- 164 Cr.P.C. statement of victim
:- relevant order dated 03-12-2012
:- relevant order dated 04-12-2012.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
