CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 6/17

Informant: Y",

Accused: Sri Moina Gohain @ Dibyajyoti,
S/o- Sri Pulen Gohain,
R/o- Jopora Konwar Gaon,
PS- Rahmaria,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri MK Singh, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH
Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 6/17
G.R. Case No. 3591/16

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Moina Gohain @ Dibyajyoti

Charges: Under Section 376 IPC, read with Section 4 POCSO Act.
Date of evidence on : 16-07-18, 25-09-18, 08-11-18, 17-12-18.

Date of argument —_: 06-04-19.
Date of Judgment —: 28-05-19.

JUDGMENT

1) The prosecution case in a narrow compass is that on 06-12-16, at about 4:00
pm, the victim 'X' went with her friend Smt. Tutumomi Orang towards the
bank of the Brahmaputra River for a stroll. At that time, Sri Moina Gohain @
Dibyajyoti (hereinafter the accused person) committed rape on the victim
near Maghua Senapati’s house. An ejahar regarding this incident was lodged
by the victim's father 'Y' which was registered as Rahmaria PS Case No. 38/16
under Sections 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC for short), read with
Section 4 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(POCSO Act for short) and Sri Debeswar Dowari embarked upon the
investigation.

2) The investigating officer (IO for short) recorded the statement of the victim
and forwarded her to the Magistrate who recorded her statement under
Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC for short). The victim

was also forwarded for medical examination. The IO went to the place of
3)

4)

5)

occurrence and prepared the Sketch-Map and recorded the statements of the
witnesses. On finding prima facie materials, the IO submitted Charge-Sheet
against the accused under Section 376 IPC, read with Section 4 POCSO Act.
On appearance of the accused person, copies were furnished and a formal
charge under Section 376 IPC, read with Section 4 POCSO Act was framed,
read over and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and
claimed innocence.

To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of ten
witnesses including the medical officer (MO for short) and the IO and
exhibited several documents, while the defence cross-examined the witnesses
to refute the charges. The accused did not tender any evidence in defence.
On the inculpatory circumstances arising against him, the answers of the
accused person under Section 313(1)(b) CrPC depicts a plea of total denial.

Submissions:

The learned Public Prosecutor (PP for short) Smt. Runumi Devi and the
learned Addl. PP Mrs. Sahnaz Akhtar emphasized through their arguments
that this is an open and shut case. There is clinching evidence against the
accused and the accused deserves stringent punishment, considering the
gravity of the allegations against him. On the contrary, the learned defence
counsel emphasized through his argument that there is no eye-witness to this
incident. There are contradictions between the statement of the victim and
the other witnesses which casts a shadow of doubt over the veracity of the
prosecution case. No injuries were detected on the medical examination of
the victim. The Medico-legal Report depicts that no injury was detected on
her private parts. The learned defence counsel had prayed for acquittal of the

accused person.
Points for determinations:

i. Whether on 06-12-16, at about 4:00 pm, near
Brahmaputra River, the accused committed rape on the
victim?

ii. Whether at the same time and place, the accused
committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim 'X'?

Decision thereon and the reasons for the decision:

6) To decide the case in its proper perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence.

7) The victim 'X' testified as PW-1 that she met the accused for the first time,
on the day of occurrence, which occurred about 1 2 years ago. On that day,
she along with Bogen Murah and Tutumoni Orang went towards Brahmaputra
River bank for a stroll. Bogen was fishing and she and Tutumoni were
waiting. At that time, two boys were also fishing in the same river and they
were in the water. Then the boys had a discussion with Bogen Murah. The
accused Moina then came towards her and asked her name and her father’s
name and her mobile number. She refused to give him her mobile number,
but she gave him her name. Then the accused Moina caught her and pulled
her towards another area and threatened Bogen and Tutumoni stay away
from the area, lest they will be killed. The accused then groped her breasts
and removed her skirt and panty and committed rape on her. The accused
tried to commit carnal sex (sodomy) with her and she experienced pain. He
inserted his penis into her vagina, but could not insert completely, because
she resisted. She pushed him and resisted. Then Moina’s friend came and
called him and alerted him that he will be noticed by the public. They called

him 'O Moina aah’ and then she came to know that the accused person's
8)

9)

name is Moina. The accused released her. Meanwhile Bogen and Tutumoni
fled. Then she returned home and entered into Maghua’s house and his wife
asked her what had happened, but she was ashamed and she told her that
the accused caught her hand. Then she met her younger brother Junus
Orang on the road. As she was crying, her brother informed her mother that
she was crying. Then she informed her mother about the incident. Her
mother informed her father about the incident. As it was 8:00 pm, her father
did not go to the police station that night. On the next day, she along with
her parents went to the police station and then her father lodged the FIR. As
she experienced pain and burning sensation in her vagina, she was sent to
the doctor for examination. She was also forwarded to the Magistrate who
recorded her statement. Ext. 1 is her statement and Ext. 1(1) upto Ext. 1(3)
are her signatures.

This witness was cross-examined on a later date, but no contradiction could
be elicited through her cross-examination. She testified in her cross-
examination that Bogen Murah is her nephew and his house is half a
kilometer away from her house. She could not identify the other boys who
were also present with the accused person. She denied the suggestion by the
defence that she has given false evidence due to an acrimonious relationship
with the accused.

Her evidence is supported and corroborated by the evidence of Ms. Tutumoni
Orang. This witness is below ten years of age and after ascertaining her
intelligence, her evidence was recorded. Tutumoni Orang has stated as PW-5
that the incident occurred about 1 2 years ago. At that time, she was a
student of Class-V. On the day of the incident, 'X' went to gaze at the river,

and she was standing near 'X'. Bogen and his friend also went fishing. 'X'
asked her to accompany her to the river bank. She heard a shriek and then
"X' returned.

10)It is clear from the evidence of Tutumoni Orang that she and Bogen
accompanied the victim 'X' on the day of the incident to the Brahmaputra
River bank. Tutumoni Orang stated that she heard 'X's shrieks, but she did
not know why 'X' raised alarm. Her evidence depicts that after she heard 'X'
screaming, she also noticed that 'X' had returned. This is the time when 'X'
was already assaulted by the accused, but PW-5 did not witness the incident
of assault. Her evidence is similar to the evidence of PW-1.

11)The other child who accompanied the victim 'X' and PW-5 was Sri Bogel
Murah who testified as PW-4 that he noticed the accused, but he did not
know his name. 'X' is his distant relative. The incident occurred about a year
ago. At the time of the incident, he, Rahul and Tutumoni went for fishing at
the Brahmaputra River. 'X' was already present at the spot, because 'X' went
along with Tutumoni to the same place and they were playing in the place of
occurrence. Five other boys were also present at the place of occurrence,
where they went for fishing. One of the boys came and caught the victim’s
hand. He and Rahul tried to save 'X', but the accused chased them away and
so they ran homewards. They also informed at home about the victim and

then meanwhile, the miscreants fled. 'X' returned home alone after some
time. The police recorded his name and address, but did not ask him
anything.

12)In his cross-examination, he testified that he did not know which boy caught
"X"s hand. He also did not know what happened at the place of occurrence,

because they were chased away.

13) It is clear from the cross-examination of the PWs-4 and 5 that the police did
not record their statements, but noted down their names and address. PW-4
is sixteen years of age and he was a student of Class-VIII. He did not identify
the accused, but his evidence supports the evidence of PWs-1 and 5. It is
clear from the evidence of PWs-1, 4 and 5 that, three of them went towards
the river bank and then one miscreant caught the victim 'X'. PWs-4 and 5
failed to identify the accused, but it is clear from the evidence that when 'X'
was with them, the incident occurred and the police recorded their names
and addresses after the incident. Thus, it is clear that the prior to the
incident, PW-1 was with PWs-4 and 5. Thus, PW-1 cannot be dubbed as
unreliable. It has to be borne in mind that 'X' identified the accused. She also
heard his name being called. ‘Moina’ is the nickname of the accused. PWs-1,
4 and 5 are all minor witnesses and are innocent. They cannot withstand the
shrewd cross-examination of an astute lawyer. The nuances of cross-
examination have to be taken into consideration while analyzing the evidence
of child witnesses.

14) The evidence of PW-1 is supported and corroborated by the evidence of her
mother 'Z', who testified as PW-2 that she had seen the accused person, but
did not know him very well. Her daughter is at present seventeen years of
age. The incident occurred more than a year ago. At the time of the incident,
she was at home, while her daughter went towards the river bank. Her
daughter did not return home till 12:00 O’ clock noon. Her husband went to
the bazaar. After some time, her younger son Junus Orang came and told her
that her daughter was crying. Then her son also informed her that Moina
caught hold of her daughter. Then she ran towards her daughter. Her
daughter came running and entered into a neighbour’s house. When her

daughter returned, she informed her that the accused caught her and groped
her. The accused also asked her phone number. Her husband returned home
in the evening and she informed him about the incident. Her husband went
to the VDP member’s house. On the next day, she along with her husband
and daughter went to the police station and her husband lodged the ejahar.
Her daughter was sent for medical examination and her daughter was also
forwarded to the Magistrate who recorded her statement.

15) This witness was also cross-examined on a later date. The defence failed to
elicit any contradiction through her cross-examination. It is clear from her
testimony that her evidence fits in like hand in glove with the evidence of her
daughter. PW-1 also testified that when she returned home, her younger
brother Junus saw her crying and then he went and informed her mother.
This has been affirmed by her mother through her testimony as PW-2. The
sole contradiction between the evidence of PW's-1 and 2 is that PW-2 did not
implicate that the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on her
daughter.

16) In sync with the evidence of PWs-1 and 2, the informant 'Y' testified as PW-3
that he came to know the accused person after the incident. His daughter 'X'
is about seventeen years of age at present. She has passed HSLC
examination. The alleged incident occurred more than a year ago. On the day
of the incident, he went to the market and when he returned home in the
evening, his wife informed him that when his daughter went to the river bank
along with her friends, some boys were present at the river bank. The
accused Moina caught his daughter’s hand and sent away the other boys who
were present at the river bank. When he caught his daughter’s hand, the
other children also fled from the river bank. The accused also misbehaved

with his daughter. His daughter somehow managed to escape and returned
home. She informed his wife about the incident and his wife informed him
about the incident. As it was already late at night, he did not go to the police
station. On the next morning, he along with his wife and daughter went to
the police station and lodged the ejahar with the police. The FIR was written
by a person near the police station. Ext. 1 is the FIR and Ext. 1(1) is his
signature. The FIR was written according to his narrative. The police recorded
his statement and the statement of his daughter and forwarded her to the
Magistrate who recorded her statement. His daughter was also forwarded to
the doctor. The cross-examination of PW-3 also does not depict any
contradiction. It is hereby held that PWs-1, 2 and 3 came across the accused
only after the incident. They correctly identified the accused although.

17) It is true that the victim's parents did not testify that the accused committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim, but at the same time, it is also true
that the victim testified that the accused committed penetrative sexual
assault. As she resisted, the accused could not completely insert his penis
into her vagina. Moreover, he tried to commit sodomy. The testimony of the
victim is consistent to her statement under Section 164 CrPC.

18) At this juncture, it is pertinent to mention that the MO’s evidence does not
depict any evidence of recent sexual intercourse. Now, the poignant question
is whether the accused committed penetrative sexual intercourse on the
victim? The other question is whether the accused gets the benefit of doubt
due to the lack of corroborative evidence regarding the penetrative sexual
assault and also due to lack of medical evidence. There is not even an iota of
doubt that the accused forcefully committed sexual assault upon the victim.
The reluctance of the victim has given the scope to the accused to defend

himself properly. Earlier, the victim was reluctant to inform Maghua’s wife
10

about the incident, as she was ashamed and it appears that the victim also
did not disclose the entire incident to her parents, may be out of fear. The
prosecution also failed to produce Mahua’s wife as a witness. However, the
failure to examine Mahua’s wife does not cause a dent in the evidence.
19)The MO Dr. Nibedita Shyam testified as PW-10 that on 08-12-16, she was
posted as MO in the Department of Forensic Medicine, Assam Medical College
& Hospital at Dibrugarh and she examined the victim in connection with this
case and found the following:
On genital examination: Genital organs are healthy. Vulva is
healthy. Labia minora exposed on abduction of thighs. Hymen
intact. Vagina and cervix healthy. Vaginal smears take on glass
slides from posterior fornix and around cervix, the result of which
does not show any spermatozoa.
On the basis of physical examination, radiological examination and laboratory
examination done of the victim 'X', the MO was of the opinion that:-
i. Her age was above fourteen years and below sixteen
years;
ii. | Evidence of recent sexual intercourse not detected on her
person or body;
iii. | Evidence of recent injury not detected on her body or
private part.
Ext. 5 is the Medico-legal Report and Ext. 1(1) upto Ext. 1(3) are the
signatures of the MO.
20) It has already been discussed in my foregoing discussions that there is lack of
medical evidence.

21) The evidence of Sri Rahul Orang also fortified the evidence of PWs-1, 2, 3, 4
11

and 5. He testified as PW-6 that the accused person is known to him, but he
does not know the name of the accused. He saw the accused near the bank
of the river. The victim 'X' is his elder sister. About 1 %2 years ago, Bogel
Murah, Tutumoni and 'X' went for fishing at the Brahmaputra river. While they
were fishing, 'X' was sitting. At that time, the accused was also standing on
the bank. He caught 'X' and took her towards the sand. Then he ran
homewards to inform his family about the incident. After some time, 'X' also
reached home. On the next day, 'X' went to the police station along with his
father.

22)It is apt to mention at this juncture that no contradiction could be elicited
through the cross-examination of this witness. It is clear from his evidence
that his testimony is consistent to his testimony under Section 161 CrPC. It
has to be borne in mind that these are four child witnesses in this case and
their evidence is corroborative.

23) Another witness Sri Phanidhar Saikia testified as PW-7 that the accused
person's father is his friend. The informant and the victim are from his village.
The incident occurred in the year 2017. On the night of the incident, 'Y' came
to his house and informed his family members that when his daughter went
for fishing by the ride of the river, she was raped by a person belonging to
Konwar Gaon. Then his family members informed him about the incident of
rape. On the next day, the police came and as he was the member of the
VDP, he went to show the direction of 'Y's house to the police. He did not
find 'Y' in his house and went ahead and found 'Y' along with the victim’s
friends who accompanied her for fishing. The victim 'X's friends informed
him that the victim was raped by one person who is the son of Sri Pulen

Gohain. The police interrogated the victim’s friends. Later, he learnt that the
12

police arrested the accused in connection with this case.

24) It is apt to mention that the accused person has given the name of his father
as Pulen Gohain when his statement was recorded under Section 313 CrPC.
Moreover, on the Charge-Sheet, the accused person is charge sheeted as the
son of Pulen Gohain. Thus, it is clear that the VDP member Sri Phanidhar
Saikia learnt from the victim’s friends that Pulen Gohain’s son committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim X.

25)It has already been held in my foregoing discussions that there is clinching
evidence against the accused person. The victim has clearly testified that the
accused committed penetrative sexual assault on her. Her evidence is
corroborated and supported by the evidence of PWs-2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.

26) In sync with the evidence of other witnesses, Sri Prakash Kerketa testified as
PW-8 that the victim resides in his village. The incident occurred in the year
2017. On the following day of the incident, he was informed by Sri Phanidhar
Saikia (PW-7) that an incident of rape occurred with the victim. Later, he
learnt that 'Y' lodged an ejahar.

27)In his cross-examination, he testified that the police did not record his
statement.

28) The IO is a formal witness. Sri Debeswar Dowari is the IO and he testified as
PW-9 that on 07-12-16, he was posted as Officer-in-charge (OC for short) at
Rahmaria Police Station and on that day, an FIR was lodged by 'Y' which was
registered as Rahmaria PS Case No. 38/16 under Section 376 IPC, read with
Section 4 POCSO Act and he embarked upon the investigation. Ext. 2 is the
FIR and Ext. 2(1) is his signature. He met the informant 'Y' and recorded his
statement in the police station. He met the victim 'X' and her father in the

police station and recorded their statements. Thereafter, he proceeded to the
13

place of occurrence and prepared the Sketch-Map as shown by the
complainant and the victim, wherein Ext. 3(1) is his signature. He forwarded
the victim for medical examination and also forwarded her to the Magistrate
who recorded her statement. He collected the statement and Medico-legal
Report of the victim and submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused person.
Ext. 4 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 4(1) is his signature.

29) It has been held in my foregoing discussions that there is clinching evidence
against the accused person. According to the evidence of the IO and the
victim’s parents and the FIR, the incident occurred on 06-12-16 at about 4:00
pm and the case was registered on that day and the victim was examined on
the next day, i.e., on 08-12-16. The victim testified that as it was late at
night, when her father was informed, her father did not go to the police
station and he went to the police station on the next day. The victim’s mother
testified as PW-2 that her daughter did not return home till 12:00 O’ clock.
Thus, it is apparent that the incident occurred on 06-12-16 and after 12:00 O’
clock. The PW-1 has testified in her evidence-in-chief as well as in her cross-
examination which was recorded on a later date that as it was late at night at
about 8:00 pm, her parents did not go to the police station to lodge the FIR
and the FIR was lodged on the next day. The victim’s evidence-in-chief was
recorded on 16-07-18 and her cross-examination was recorded on 25-09-18,
i.e., after a year. As the victim was truthful, her evidence-in-chief and cross-
examination remained consistent. Her statement under Section 161 CrPC was
also held to be consistent. Her statement under Section 164 CrPC is also
consistent to her testimony in the Court.

30)The learned defence counsel laid stress in his argument that the MO’s

evidence belies the victim’s testimony. It is argued that the MO did not detect
14

any injuries on the victim's private part.

31) After considering the testimony of the victim and argument of the learned
defence counsel, it is held that the argument of the learned defence counsel
can be safely brushed aside. No sound reason prevailed to disbelieve the
evidence of a child witness. Even though, there is lack of medical evidence, it
is held that the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim.
He tried to insert his penis into her vagina and also into her anus. The victim
was indeed brutally assaulted. Most of the witnesses are minor child
witnesses including the victim herself.

32) It has been held by Hon’ble the Gauhati High Court in Arun Tanti Vs. State
of Assam [2018 (4) GLT 1002] that:-

20. The accused being a matured man has indulged
himself in such affairs knowing fully well that the victim is
a minor one which clearly established that the
accused/appellant has culpable mental state to have
sexual intercourse with a minor girl, which has rendered
him liable for the offence u/s 4 of the POCSO Act. The Ld.
Trial Court has properly appreciated all the matters on
record and has taken note of non compliance of provision
of POCSO Act mentioned above and also the legal
pronouncement that the child witness is a competent
witness to depose before the Court and conviction can be
rest upon such evidence of child witness if found reliable,
as has been held in Dattu Ramarao Sakhre Vs. State of
Maharastra (1997) 5 SCC 341, Ratansingh D. Nayak Vs.

State of Gujarat (2004) 1 SCC 64.
15

33) Reverting back to this case, it is held that the victim's testimony and her
statement under Section 164 CrPC clearly depicts that the accused committed
sexual assault on her. The accused is thereby held guilty of the offence under
Section 4 POCSO Act.

34) Apart from presumption of culpable mental state, the POCSO Act embodies
presumption regarding certain offences under Section 29 of POCSO Act which
read as follows:

29. Where a person is prosecuted for committing or
abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
sections 3, 5, 7 and section 9 of this Act, the Special Court
shall presume, that such person has committed the
offence, unless the contrary is proved.

35) Thus, there is no hesitation to hold that the accused commited penetrative
sexual assault on the victim. Moreover, since the FIR was lodged soon after
the crime, there was least possibility of the victim and her family of
concocting a false story implicating the accused in a short interval. The police
machinery was set in motion promptly without any delay.

36) Regarding the lack of medical evidence, I would like to rely on the decision of
Hon’ble the High Court of the Judicature at Bombay in Suni! Atmaram
More vs. State and others [2011 SCC Online BOM 622], wherein it has
been observed that:-

28. Explanation to Section 376 clarifies that penetration is
sufficient to constitute sexual intercourse necessary to the
offence of rape. In [Wahid Khan v. State of MP (2010) 2
SCC 9], the Supreme Court reiterated the consistent view

that even the slightest penetration is sufficient to make
16

out an offence of rape and depth of penetration is
immaterial. The Hon’ble Supreme Court made reference to
the opinion expressed by Dr. Mody in his Medical
Jurisprudence and Toxicology (22™ Edition) at Page 495
as well as to Dr. Parikh’s Textbook of Medical
Jurisprudence and Toxicology. Dr. Parikh defined the term
“sexual intercourse” as under:

“In law, this term is held to mean the slightest degree of
penetration of the vulva by the penis with or without
emission of semen. It is therefore quite possible to commit
legally the offence of rape without producing any injury to
the genitals or leaving any seminal stains.”

For the aforestated reason, we are not in agreement with
the learned counsel for the defence that the testimony of
the prosecutrix with the aid of the medical evidence, does
not disclose an offence of rape. Even assuming that theory
of use of condom is afterthought, absence of semen in the
vaginal swab is not the evidence of absence of sexual
intercourse absence of seminal stains on the clothes,
vaginal swabs, etc. merely indicates that there was no
discharge nevertheless, it is not evidence of absence of
rape. This is what precisely Dr. Mody in his Medical
Jurisprudence and Toxicology (22 Edition) at page 495
clarified.

“Thus, to constitute the offence of rape, it is not necessary

that there should be complete penetration of penis with
17

emission of semen and rupture of hymen. Partial
penetration of the penis within the Labia minora or the
vulva or pudenda, with or without emission of semen, or
even an attempt at penetration is quite sufficient for the
purpose of the law. It is therefore quite possible to
commit legally, the offence at rape with producing any
injury to the genitals or leaving any seminal stains.

37) In the instant case, the victim’s evidence clearly depicts that she resisted and
did not allow the accused to insert his penis completely. This does not
exonerate the accused from the offence of rape.

38) On the basis of Section 42 of POCSO Act, the accused is held guilty of the
offence under Section 4 of POCSO Act, although he is charged under the both
Sections of the penal code of POCSO Act.

39) The accused acted in a very aggressive manner. Although, he is a young lad,
he assaulted the victim in the broad day light. Considering the facts and
circumstances of this case and the age and antecedent of the accused, it
appears that the minimum term of imprisonment provided for offences under
Section 4 POCSO Act will meet the ends of justice.

40) I have heard the accused on the point of sentence.

SENTENCE:

41)I convict the accused Sri Moina Gohain @ Dibyajyoti under Section 4 POCSO
Act and sentence him to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI in short) for 7
(seven) years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand) only
and in default of payment of fine, to undergo RI for 1 (one) month. The fine
realized will be deposited in the costs fund of District Legal Services Authority,

Dibrugarh (DLSA for short). The period of detention of the accused during
18

investigation and trial is set off with his custodial sentence.
42) Furnish free copies of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.
43) This case is also recommended for compensation to the victim who deserves
compensation under the Assam Victims Compensation Scheme, 2012.
44)Send a copy of this judgment to the Secretary, DLSA, Dibrugarh for
assessment of compensation.
Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 28" day of

May, 2019.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Contd.
19

APPENDIX
POCSO Case No. 6/17

List of witnesses for prosecution:
1. PW-1 The victim 'X';
2. PW-2 The mother of the victim 'X';
3. PW-3 The informant 'Y';
4. PW-4 Sri Bogel Murah;
5. PW-5 Smt. Tutumoni Orang;
6. PW-6 The younger brother of the victim 'X';
7. PW-7 Sri Phanidhar Saikia;
8. PW-8 Sri Prakash Kerketa;
9. PW-9 Sri Debeswar Dowari;
10. PW-10 Dr. Nibedita Shyam.
List of exhibits for prosecution:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim 'X' recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Sketch-Map;
4. Ext. 4 Charge-Sheet; and
5. Ext. 5 Medico-legal Report.
List of material exhibits for prosecution: Nil.
List of witnesses for defence: Nil.
List of exhibits for defence: Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
