Kel

special Judge:

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 19 (JN)/ 2018.

U/S 366/ 376 IPC R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

(G.R. Case No.188/2017 ; Simen Chapari P.S. Case No.38/2017 Under Section-366

(A) of the Indian Penal Code)

The State of Assam

- Versus —
Shri Magheswar Deka
S/O Shri Gandhi Deka,
R/O Bera CHapari,
P.S. Jonai,
Dist.- Dhemaji.
Appearance:
Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor

Shri K.C. Sonowal, Advocate

Date of prosecution evidence

Date of argument

Date of Judgment

a Accused Person

cumaielies For the State
beveceeees For the Accused

: 12-09-2018.
: 12-09-2018.

: 26-09-2018.
Dhema}-

JUDGMENT

i. The prosecution case in brief is that on 19-12-2017
complainant- Smti Jan Borah lodged an ejahar with Simen Chapari Police
Station alleging interalia that on 18-12-2017 at about 2 PM the accused-
Magheswar Deka with the help of one Shri Jitul Chetia, kidnapped/abducted
his minor daughter-Miss ‘Xx’ aged about 15 years from his house by inducing

her.

as On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused-Magheswar Deka u/s 366(A) of IPC R/W section 4
of the POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 366/376 IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act
and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined two witnesses. After closure
of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313
Cr.PC. Defence plea is of denial.

4. Points for determination :

(1) That you, on 18-12-2017 at about 2 PM at Village-No.2
Narayanpur Bali Gaon under Simen Chapari Police Station, you
kidnapped/abducted Miss ‘xX’, a minor girl aged about 15 years from
her house with another boy-Jitul Chetia with intent that she might be
forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby you committed an
offence punishable u/s 366 of IPC.

(2) That you, on the same day, time and place you committed

rape on Miss ‘X’, a minor girl aged about 15 years, having sexual
intercourse against her will and consent and thereby you committed
an offence punishable u/s 376 of IPC.

(3) That, on the same day, time and place you committed
penetrative sexual assault on Miss ‘Xx’, a minor 4 of POCSO Act.

Ss I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

6. PW1 is the victim Miss ‘X’. Complainant is her mother. She had
love affairs with the accused and she eloped with him and got married. Her
family members were opposed to such marriage and her mother lodged
complaint against the accused. At the time of marriage she was above 18
years. Now, she is living together with the accused as husband and wife. She
has produced her school certificate in the Court. As per the school certificate,
her date of birth is 5-01-1999. Exhibit-2 is the photo copy of the school
certificate containing date of birth proved in original.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that the accused never forced
her to go with him. She has no objection if the accused is acquitted from the
case.

Fs PW2 Smti Jan Borah stated that she is the complainant. She
knows accused. Victim is her daughter. Her daughter/victim had love affairs
with the accused and she eloped with the accused and got married. They
were opposed to such marriage and she lodged complaint against the
accused. At the time of marriage, her daughter was above 18 years of age.
Now, they are living together as husband and wife. Exhibit-1 is the ejahar
and EXt-1(1) is her signature.
In cross-examination, she stated that they have accepted the
accused as their son-in-law. Her daughter is living with the accused

peacefully. She prayed that the accused may be acquitted in this case.

Appreciation of evidence :
8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that

in this case the victim and her mother were examined as P.W-1 and PW2
respectively. PW1 is the Victim Miss ‘X’ and PW-2 is the mother of the victim
girl. In their evidence both the vital witnesses stated that the victim had love
affairs with the accused and so she eloped with him and got married. Parents
of the victim were opposed to such marriage and so PW2, mother of the
victim, lodged complaint against the accused. Both the PWs stated that at the
relevant time of occurrence, the victim was above 18 years of age. Now, they
(victim & accused) are living together as husband and wife. In cross-
examination PW1 stated that the accused never forced her to go with him.
She has no objection if the accused is acquitted from the case. PW2 in her
cross-examination also stated that they accepted the accused as their son-in-
law. Her daughter/victim is now living together with the accused peacefully.
She prayed before the Court that the accused may be acquitted in this case.
From the evidence of the witnesses (PWs-1 and 2), it is seen that both the
parties have compromise the case outside the Court and so they are not
willing to depose against the accused. Prosecution side declined to examine
the remaining witnesses on the ground that examination of other witnesses
will not improve the prosecution case at all.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences. This is a case of no evidence. I find that the prosecution
has totally failed to prove the charges u/s 366/376 of IPC read with Sec.- 4 of
the POCSO Act against the accused.
10. In view of the above, I find the accused-Magheswar Deka not
guilty u/s 366/376 of the I.P.C. read with Section-4 of POCSO Act.

Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charges leveled against him.

Fi. Set him at liberty forthwith.
12. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
id. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 26%
day of September / 2018.
)0'6
(0
(S. Das )
