Spl. POCSO Case No. 11 of 2019

IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, BAJALI,
PATHSALA

Spl. POCSO Case No. 11 of 2019
U/S - 8 of POCSO Act, 2012.

State
- Versus -
Motaleb Ali @ Abdul Motaleb
: Accused person.
Present :
Sri L.K. Saikia, AJS,

Additional Sessions Judge, Bajali, Pathsala.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Smti. Dhira Devi Ld. Addl. P. P.

For the accused persons : Sri Giridhar Choudhury & Ors., Ld.
Advocate.

Date of framing charge : 13-12-2019

Dates of recording evidences: 21-12-2019, 02-01-2020.

Date of recording statements u/s 313 Cr.P.C. : 02-01-2020.

Date of Argument : 02-01-2020
Date of Judgment : 08-01-2020.

J UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that, one Niren Ramchiary
lodged an ejahar on 23-12-2018 with the I/C Dhumarpathar Out Post
alleging, inter-alia, that on 23-12-2018 at about 10 a.m. the accused
person took the X(victim) on lap and thereafter took to the nearby
bamboo bush and tried to committing rape on the victim. Hence, this

case.

2. Having got the FIR on 23-12-2018, |I/C Dhumarpathar
made a GDE No. 821/18 dtd. 23-12-2018 and forwarded it to the O/C,

Page No. 1 of 8
Spl. POCSO Case No. 11 of 2019

Patacharkuchi for registering a case and take up the matter for
investigation. Accordingly the FIR was registered as Patacharkuchi P. S.
Case No. 848/18 u/s 8 POCSO Act. 2012 and endorsed I/C,
Pradip Kr. Barman to continue the investigation and submit FF.

3. During investigation the 1|/O visited the place of
occurrence, prepared sketch map of the place of occurrence, recorded
the statements of witnesses including the victim girl, conducted
medical examination of the victim, produced her before the Court
wherein the Ld. Magistrate recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C, and
after completion of investigation, having been found prima-facie case,
the |/O filed charge sheet u/s 8 POCSO Act. 2012 against the accused
Motaleb Ali.

4. On appearance of the accused person before this Court
copies of the prosecution documents were furnished to him and after
hearing the learned Addl. P. P. appearing for the State and the learned
defence counsel and after perusal of materials available on record
u/s 173 Cr.P.C., having been found sufficient grounds for presuming
that the accused person has committed the offence, framed the formal
charge 366 IPC and section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012. The charges so
framed was read over and explained to the accused person, to which
he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined
altogether 4 (four) PWs i.e. the informant and the victim and other two
witnesses. After examining these witnesses the Ld. Addl. PP submits
that the vital material witnesses have already been examined and
there is no chance of further development of the prosecution story and
hence, prays to close the prosecution evidence.

6. Heard the Ld. Addl. PP appearing for the state. Perused
the case record and considering the submission put forward by the Ld.
Addl. PP the evidence of prosecution side is closed.

7. The defence plea is of total denial. The accused person
was examined u/s 313 of Cr. P. C. wherein he denied all such
allegations leveled against him by the prosecution witnesses. The

Page No. 2 of 8
Spl. POCSO Case No. 11 of 2019

defence side has not adduced any defence evidence.

8. Heard argument of learned Addl. P. P. and the learned
defence counsel.

9. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused person on 23-12-2018 at about
10 a.m. at Chenglimari under Patacharkuchi Police Station tried
to commit sexual assault on the victim by removing her wearing
clothes by grabbing her and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 ?

EVIDENCE OF THE WITNESSES

10. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me see what the
witnesses have stated.

11. PW-1 Sri Charayan Boro, deposed that he knows the
informant of this case and also knows the accused person Mutaleb Ali,
who is present in the Court today. Victim is his daughter. In the last
year in the Assamese month of 'Puh' the incident took place and at
that time his daughter was about 9 years old and she was reading in
class Ill (three). On the day of the incident he went out for working and
in the evening time he returned to home. After returning to home his
wife told him about the incident that the accused person took their
daughter on his lap and thereafter asked what and which class she was
reading. The accused person doing bamboo works with 'dao' for that
he went to their house for asking 'dao' to his wife. It is also told to him
by his wife that the accused person did not do anything to his
daughter.

During cross-examination, PW-1 deposed that the bamboo
bush was standing near to their house. The accused person with a
view to cut bamboo came to their house. Nothing had happened as
stated in the FIR.

12. PW-2 Smti. Rupay Boro, deposed that she knows the
informant of this case and also knows the accused person Mutaleb Ali,

Page No. 3 of 8
Spl. POCSO Case No. 11 of 2019

but do not know what he is doing. Victim is her daughter. She has
forgotten the date & day of occurrence. On that day the accused
person took her daughter to nearby bamboo bush and while she asked
why he took her daughter, then he released her daughter from his lap.
At that time some other persons were also there. Seeing the incident
the other persons who were present there insisted upon to file FIR. In
the mean time some boys of student union arrived and they have filed
the FIR. At that time her daughter was about 8 years old and was
reading in class Ill.

In cross-examination, PW-2 deposed that the bamboo
bush is standing near to their house. The accused person did not do
any misbehave or bad work to her daughter except taking her in his
lap due to affection. Nothing had happened as stated in the FIR.

13. PW-3 X(victim), deposed that one student of ABSU filed
this case. She does not know the accused person properly. Nothing
had happened with her. The accused person did not do anything with
her. Before today also one day she came to the Court but she has
forgotten what she stated in the Court on that day. One day the
accused person took her to nearby bamboo bush. Police one day took
her to FAAMCH, Barpeta for medical examination. The Doctor of
FAAMCH examined her by opening her mouth and eye and thereafter
produced her before the Court and whereby the Magistrate had
recorded her statement vide exhibit No. 1.

During her cross-examination, PW-3 deposed that the
accused person (i.e. the old man) did not do anything with her. ABSU
themselves filed this case.

14. PW-4 Sri Niran Ramchiary, deposed that at the time of
filing of the FIR he was the president of Duramari Unit A.B.S.U. He
knows the victim of this case, whose house is situated at Holongbari
(border of their village). He does not know the accused person. He has
seen the accused person only on today, but he knew that he is from
Holongbari. Before one year ago the incident took place. One day at
about 5.30 p.m. he came to know about the incident from some

Page No. 4 of 8
Spl. POCSO Case No. 11 of 2019

members of A.B.S.U. that the accused person asked 'dao' for cutting
bamboo from the mother of the victim. Accordingly the victim handed
over the 'dao' to that person. More than that he does not know
anything about it yet as per instruction of the villagers he lodged the
FIR. Vide exhibit No. 2.

During his cross-examination, deposed that he does not
know actually what had happened as he has not seen the incident.
But lodged the FIR after hearing about it from the villagers.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS, AND REASONS THEREOF

 

15. Perused the case record and also gone through the
provision of law.

16. PW-4 in the informant who specifically stated before the
Court he do not know anything about the incident except that the
accused person came to the house of the victim and asked the
victim's mother about a 'dao' for cutting bamboo and following this
incident there was some gathering of villagers at the house of PW-1
and at the instigation of the villagers he had filed the FIR but he do
not know what actually had happened.

17. PW-2 is the father of the victim who at the time of the
happening of the incident was not present at the house and on
returning to home his wife (PW-1) told him that accused to their
house for asking a 'dao' to cutting bamboo except that PW-1 did not
tell him anything. It is also stated by him that nothing had happened
as stated in the FIR.

18. PW-3 the victim stated that the accused person did not
do any bad work with her but one day he took her in his lap near the
bamboo bush except that nothing had happened. PW-1 also deposed
that one day the accused person came to their house for asking a
‘'dao' with a view to cutting bamboo so following his request she
asked her daughter to give the 'dao' to the accused person and
accordingly her daughter (PW3) gave the 'dao' to the accused person.
She also stated that nothing had happed as stated in the FIR. The
villagers with the help of A.B.S.U. Students unnecessarily raised

Page No. 5 of 8
Spl. POCSO Case No. 11 of 2019
commotion and filed the FIR.

19. On considering the evidence of the witnesses it is found
that nothing had happened as stated in the FIR even PW-3 the victim
has also not supported to the case of the prosecution by saying that
the accused person did not do any bad work with her. The other
witnesses i.e. PW-2 & PW-4 are hearsay witnesses so their evidences
cannot be admissible under the law as they had heard about the
incident some third party but not from the victim. PW1 though
present at the time of happening of the incident but did not implicate

the accused person in any manner.

20. Court cannot go beyond the evidence, court is to confine
with the evidence available in the record only. So evidence available
in the record is that nothing had happened as stated in the FIR.

21. In view of above, it can be safely concluded that the
prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused person as
required under the law.

22. Accordingly, the accused Motaleb Ali @ Abdul Motaleb is
acquitted of the offences charged u/s 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 and set
him at liberty forthwith.

23. The bail bond of the accused person is extended for
further period of another 6 (six) months u/s 437 (A) Cr.PC.C

24. A copy of this judgment be given to the _ District
Magistrate, Barpeta u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

Page No. 6 of 8
Spl. POCSO Case No. 11 of 2019

25. The Sessions Case is disposed of accordingly.

26. Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court
in presence of both the parties and | put my hand and seal of this Court
on this O8th day of January, 2020.

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.
Dictated & Corrected
by me

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Page No. 7 of 8
Spl. POCSO Case No. 11 of 2019

APPENDIX :-

Oral evidences :-

PW-1 Sri Charayan Boro
PW-2 Smti. Rupay Boro
PW-3- X(victim)

PW-4 Niran Ramchiary

Documentary evidence :-

Ext. 1- FIR
Ext.-2- 164 Statement.

Defence evidence.

NIL

(L.K. Saikia)
Addl. Sessions Judge
Bajali, Pathsala.

Page No. 8 of 8
