Page 1 of 6

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 59/15

Informant: XXXX

Accused: Sri Roka Kanda @ Manuj Kanda,
S/o- Sri Raju Kanda,
R/o- Suratonibam Punachuk,
PS- Tingkhong,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. A Rob, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 6

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

Sessions Case No. 59/15
G.R. Case No. 1537/15

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Roka Kanda @ Manuj Kanda

Charges: under Section 366 IPC & Section 6 read with Section 5(1) of PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 09-03-16, 13-06-16 & 06-09-16.
Date of argument : 20-09-16.
Date of Judgment —: 20-09-16.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that the accused Sri Roka Kanda @ Manuj Kanda
kidnapped the prosecutrix on 08-06-15 from Chowatanibam Punachuk Gaon
under Tingkhong Police Station and took her to different places, and during
this period, the accused committed penetrative sexual assault upon her
repeatedly. The elder brother of the prosecutrix lodged an Ejahar on
11-06-15 and Tingkhong Police Station Case No. 67/15 was registered and
investigation commenced. The prosecutrix was recovered at Naharpukhuri
Gaon along with the accused. The Investigating Officer visited the place of
occurrence, drew up Sketch-Map, recorded the statement of witnesses and
on completion of investigation, submitted the Charge-Sheet.
Upon committal, this Court framed charges under Section 366 IPC & Section
6 read with Section 5(1) of PCSO Act (hereinafter the Act) against the accused
person and the charges were read over and explained to the accused person
to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined seven witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Mr. Rob, learned counsel for

the defence.
5)

6)

7)

Page 3 of 6

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the prosecutrix was a child within the meaning of Section
2(d) of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?
2. Whether the accused abducted/kidnapped the prosecutrix?
3. Whether the accused committed aggravated penetrative sexual
assault upon the prosecutrix?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

The prosecutrix recorded her age as fourteen years at the time of deposition
at the trial, while PW-2, her elder sister, who also recorded her age as 14
years, deposed that the prosecutrix was fifteen years old. PW-3, father of the
prosecutrix did not state her age and PW-4, the mother stated the same to
be fourteen years. But no medical evidence is available as the prosecutrix
refused medical examination. Although she is a school going girl, the
Investigating Officer did not collect any documentary proof of age, either
from her school or from any other source. Age of the victim is a vital
ingredient of an offence under the Act, which contains stringent penal
provisions and therefore, proper proof of such vital ingredients of offences
thereunder must be insisted upon. But the prosecution has failed to lead the
best evidence in this regard, and accordingly, adverse presumption follows.
The age of the prosecutrix cannot be said to have been established merely on
the verbal statements of her minor sister and mother, when better evidence
was obtainable. Hence, it is not established that the prosecutrix was child as

defined under Section 2(d) of the Act at the time of occurrence.

Point No. 2 & 3:

PW-4, mother of the prosecutrix deposed that the prosecutrix reported to her
that the accused took her forcefully. PW-4 & 5 are hearsay witnesses who did
not implicate the accused. PW-3, father of the prosecutrix deposed that four
days after the occurrence, police recovered her daughter from the house of
the elder brother-in-law of the accused person and upon asking, her daughter
told PW-3 that the accused induced her and kept her in the house of his elder
brother-in-law.

PW-2, elder sister of the prosecutrix deposed that on 08-04-15, at about
10:00 am, his related sister-in-law informed him over phone that his sister

Junaki was not found in the house whereas the accused was also not present
Page 4 of 6

in his house. On getting information, when he arrived his house on the next
day of occurrence, he did not find her in the house. Upon asking, his sister
told him that the accused had forcefully took her with the accused.

8) During cross-examination, PW-2 stated that the ejahar was written by one
Subhash Singh, but he did not put his signature on the same as its writer
which he had lodged on 10.6.2015. He did not see as to with whom his sister
went. He lodged the ejahar stating that his sister was missing and that he
could not say if his sister had gone with the accused at her own will.

9) PW-1, the prosecutrix deposed that on the day of occurrence, at about 9:00
am, while she went to her school, she met the accused who asked her to go
with him on a vehicle whereafter he took her to the house of his brother-in-
law and kept her there. She requested the accused to let her go to her
parental house which he disallowed. At that time, she did not have money to
go to her parental house and accordingly, she slept in the house of the elder
brother of the accused with one Sumi Chowra. After four days, police
recovered her from the house of one Roko Kondo, the elder brother-in-law of
the accused. PW-1 further stated that her statement was recorded by the
Magistrate vide Ext. 1 wherein Ext. 1(1) to Ext. 1(3) are her signatures.

10) During cross-examination, PW-1 stated that the accused is her uncle whereas
Bipin is the elder brother-in-law of Roko Kondo. She voluntarily went with the
accused and that the accused did not commit bad deed with her.

11) From the above, what transpires is that the prosecution voluntarily went with
the accused which does not constitute kidnapping or abduction. None of the
PWs have made any statement alleging commission of any sexual act by the
accused upon the prosecutrix.

12)Hence, it is not established that the accused kidnapped/abducted the
prosecutrix and or committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon her.

13)In the result, I hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its case
beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused person is acquitted
of the offence under Section 366 IPC & Section 6 read with Section 5(I) of
PCSO Act and he be set at liberty forthwith.

14) Issue Release Order.

15) Accused shall be released on execution of a personal bond of Rs. 20,000/-
under Section 437-A IPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 20" day of
Page 5 of 6

September, 2016.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 6 of 6

APPENDIX

List of witnesses: XXXX
List of Exhibits:

1.
2.
3.
4.
J

Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
Ext. 2 Ejahar;

Ext. 3 Sketch-Map;

Ext. 4 Medico-legal Report; and

Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
