IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Bilasipara.

Special (POCSO) Case No- 14 of 2019
u/s 363 of Indian Penal Code &
u/s 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.

State of Assam

-Vs-

Moinul Hoque @ Munshi

Date of framing charge

Date of recording evidence

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Advocates Appeared:

For the State of Assam

For the defence

beseeeeeeees accused person

I 17-06-2019

- 17-08-2019

17-09-2019
25-10-2019
25-11-2019
he 20-01-2020

a 01-02-2020

:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam.

:- Mr. Rabiul Islam,

Ld. Advocate for the defence.

JUDGMENT

1. This case is under section 363 Indian Penal Code and under section 8

of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. So, the name of the

victim is not mentioned and she is, hereinafter, referred to ‘x’.

Contd. to page no. 2
[2]

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Sanowar Hussain, the
informant lodged an ezahar with the Chapar police station on 02-05-2019
informing that he is the father of ‘x’. ‘x’ was 9 (nine) years old. She is
student of class IV of no. 497 Mowatari Muktab L.P School. On 02-05-2019
at about 08.30 A.M, ‘X’ went to school. She kept her book at school and she
went to a shop to buy tiffin. The accused Moinul Hoque @ Munshi met her
on the road and took her on his bicycle and he took her to his house. In his
house, the accused gagged her mouth and started to commit sexual
intercourse on her. ‘x’ bit the accused Moinul Hoque and ran away from his
house. She went to her house and informed about the occurrence to her
parents.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused Moinul Hoque @ Munshi.
3. The Chapar police station received the ezahar and registered as
Chapar police station case no. 155/19 under section 376 (AB) Indian Penal
Code read with section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
The case was investigated and having found prima facie under section
341/363/506 Indian Penal Code and section 8 of Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act against the accused Moinul Hoque @ Munshi, laid the
charge sheet before the court for trial.
4. The accused Moinul Hoque @ Munshi, hereinafter called the accused,
appeared in this case and he was furnished copy. Charge was framed under
section 363 Indian Penal Code, I.P.C in short and under section 8 of
Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, POCSO Act in short, against
the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the accused to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined 10 (ten) witnesses, namely-

1. Sanowar Hussain P.W-1
2. Kulsum Begum P.W-2
3. ‘x’/the victim P.W-3
4. Ashma Khatun P.W-4
5. Hafiza Bewa P.W-5
6. Amal Kr. Sarkar P.W-6
7. Soker Ali P.W-7

Contd. to page no. 3
[3]

8. Ganesh Das P.W-8
9. Dr. Md. Laskar Ali P.W-9
10. Dr. Mazida Sultana P.W-10
6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was

recorded where he denied all allegations levelled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution witnesses and also declined to adduce evidence

in defence.
7. Heard argument for both sides.
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i. Whether accused on 02-05-2019 at about 08.30 A.M at Khorida
Gossaigaon W/N-03 under Chapar police station, kidnapped ‘x’
aged about 9 years old, from lawful guardian of her father and
thereby committed offence u/s 363 I.P.C?

ii. Whether accused on 02-05-2019 at about 08.30 A.M at Khorida
Gossaigaon W/N-03 under Chapar police station, committed sexual
assault on ‘x’ by touching her private organ and thereby
committed offence u/s 8 of POCSO Act?

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF

9. In this prosecution case P.W-1 Sanowar Hussain is the informant,
P.W-2 Kulsum Begum is the mother of the victim, P.W-3 ‘x’ is the alleged
victim. P.W-4 Ashma Khatun, P.W-5 Hafiza Bewa, P.W-6 Amal Kr. Sarkar,
P.W-7 Soker Ali are independent witnesses. P.W-8 Ganesh Das is the
investigating officer. P.W-9 Dr. Md. Laskar Ali and P.W-10 Mazida Sultana
are Medical & Health Officer.

10. Since P.W-1 Sanowar Hussain is the informant and P.W-3 ‘x’ is the
alleged victim, so, both are the prime witnesses in this case. Let see the
evidence of this two witnesses at first.

11. P.W-1 Sanowar Hussain has stated in his evidence that he is the
informant in this case. ‘x’ is his daughter. The occurrence took place 3
(three) months ago (from the date of adducing his evidence on 17-08-2019).
At the time of occurrence ‘x’ was only 9 (nine) years old and she was a

student of class IV at Mowatari Muktab L.P School. On the day of occurrence

Contd. to page no. 4
[4]

at about 08.30 A.M ‘x’ went to school. ‘x’ purchased something in the shop
of one Soker Ali. Then when ‘x’ was on the road, the accused got ‘x’ on his
bicycle and took her to his house. In his house, the accused put off the
wearing of ‘x’ and tried to commit sexual intercourse on her. The accused
touched the private part of ‘x’ with his finger. ‘x’ then ran away from the
house of the accused. ‘x’ told him all about the occurrence. There was a
village meeting in the village. The accused did not attend the village
meeting. Accordingly, he lodged the ezahar, Ext-1 is the ezahar, Ext-1(1) is
his signature.

In his cross P.W-1 has stated that his house is Y2 km away from the

house of the accused. He took gas cylinder from the accused. P.W-1 has
denied that there was altercation with the accused in connection with
purchasing articles from the shop of the accused. The accused also lodged a
case against him. He did not see the occurrence. ‘x’ went to school and
returned from the gate of the school. She did not tell him that she kept her
bag at school. P.W-1 has denied that the accused did not take ‘x’ to his
house. P.W-1 has also denied that the accused did not put off her wearing
and did not keep his finger on her (x) private part.
12. P.W-3 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that the informant is her father.
She knows the accused. On the day of occurrence she went to school. On
her way to school, the accused got her on his bicycle and took her to his
house. The accused sent his wife somewhere. The accused sent his daughter
somewhere to polish his shoe. The accused then put off her clothes and
touched her private part with his hand. When she told the accused that she
would tell her mother, then the accused threatened her to cut her neck. The
accused strangled her neck. She bit the hand of the accused and she ran
away from the house of the accused. She gave her statement before the
Magistrate, Ext-2 is the said statement, Ext-2(1)(2)(3) are her signatures.

In her cross P.W-3 has stated that she does not know the accused
well. She went to school and without keep her school bag at school, she
went to the shop. There are houses near the house of the accused. She
denied that she was taught to tell that the daughter of the accused was sent
somewhere to polish his shoe. She also denied that she gave her statement

before the Magistrate as she was taught to say.

Contd. to page no. 5
[5]

13. | Thus, minute scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-3 shows that
P.W-1 Sanowar Hussain is the informant who lodged the ezahar Ext-1. He
lodged the ezahar on the basis of the information given to him by P.W-3 ‘x’.
P.W-1 did not see the occurrence.

According to P.W-1, ‘x’ on her way to school went to the shop of
Soker Ali and she purchased tiffin and when she was on the road on way to
school, the accused picked up her.

According to P.W-3 ‘x’, she went to school and she returned from the
gate without keeping her bag at school and she went to the shop of Soker
Ali to purchase article.

So, there found gulf between the evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-3.

In her statement given before the Magistrate, Ext-2, P.W-3 has
stated that she went to school, kept her bag and went to a nearby shop.

But in her evidence P.W-3 has stated that she returned from the gate
of the school as the school gate did not open and went to nearby shop.

So, there are some contradictions in the statement Ext-2 and the
evidence adduced before this court by P.W-3 ‘x’.

Another aspect is that according to P.W-3 ‘x’ there were wife and
daughter of the accused when she was taken to the house of the accused.
The accused sent his wife somewhere outside the house and his daughter to
polish shoe. Such evidence of P.W-3 ‘x’ is not reliable. The accused is an
elderly person. In the day light the accused will send his wife and child to
commit sexual intercourse with a child who is only nine years old cannot be
accepted.

Another aspect is that the informant P.W-1 scribed in the ezahar that
the accused put off the wearing of ‘x’ and started to commit sexual
intercourse on her. According to P.W-1, he lodged the ezahar on the
information given by his daughter ‘x’.

According to P.W-3 ‘x’, the accused put off her wearing and touched
her private part. There is no evidence adduced by P.W-3 that the accused
committed sexual intercourse on her. At the same time, in the evidence of
P.W-1, he has stated that the accused entered his finger into the private part
of ‘x’.

So, there found some contradictions in the content of the ezahar and
the evidence adduced by the witnesses P.W-1 and P.W-3.

Contd. to page no. 6
[6]

Moreover, the evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-3 is not corroborative to
each other.

Another aspect is that the occurrence took place in the morning. It is
stated both by P.W-1 and P.W-3 that the accused took ‘x’ on bicycle. If it is
so, anybody could witness to carry ‘x’ on the bicycle of the accused. But the
prosecution has failed to examine not a single witness to see such
occurrence.

14. Now let's see the evidence of other witnesses.

15. P.W-2 Kulsum Begum has stated in her evidence that on the day of
occurrence ‘x’ went to school. ‘x’ kept her school bag at school and went to a
nearby shop. ‘x’ was picked up by the accused and he took her to his house
where he put off her wearing and entered his finger into the private part of
‘x’. There was village meeting in connection with the occurrence.

In her cross P.W-2 has stated that the accused also lodged a case

against them.

16. P.W-4 Ashma Khatun knows nothing about the occurrence.

17. P.W-5 Hafiza Bewa also knows nothing about the occurrence.

18. P.W-6 Amal Kr. Sarkar has stated in his evidence that on 02-05-2019,
many people went to his school and claimed a meeting. But he declined to
arrange any meeting in connection with the occurrence taken place outside
school. He knows nothing about the occurrence.

19. P.W-7 Soker Ali has stated that he has a shop about 200/250 feet
away from Moktab L.P School. He knows nothing about the occurrence.

20. Thus, careful scrutiny of evidence of P.W-2, P.W-4 to P.W-7, it
appears that P.W-2 is the mother of the alleged victim ‘x’. P.W-2 has also
stated in her evidence that the accused entered his finger into the private
part of ‘x’. But this evidence of P.W-2 is not supported by P.W-3 ‘x’. P.W-3 ‘x’
has stated in her evidence that the accused touched private part only. She
has not stated in her evidence that the accused entered his finger into her
private part. P.W-3 ‘x’ is an intelligent. She has capacity to understand and
she can express everything. If the accused entered his finger into her private
part, she could have stated the same.

So, there is lack of corroboration in the evidence of P.W-2 and P.W-3.
Such non corroborated evidence of P.W-2 cannot be accepted.

Another aspect is that, according to P.W-2, there was village meeting

Contd. to page no. 7
[7]

in connection with the occurrence. The accused did not attend the meeting,
so nothing was decided.

Perusal of evidence of P.W-4 to P.W-7, who are independent
witnesses shows that not a single witness has stated in their respective
evidence that there was village meeting. In such a situation, the evidence of
P.W-2 that there was a village meeting in connection with the occurrence
cannot be accepted.

21. The witnesses namely P.W-4 to P.W-7 have stated categorically in
their evidence that they know nothing about the occurrence. The evidence of
P.W-4 to P.W-7 does not support the evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-3.

22. P.W-9 Dr. Md. Laskar Ali is the Medical & Health Officer who
examined ‘x’ and found the age of ‘x’ to be 10 to 12 years.

23: P.W-10 Dr. Mazida Sultan is also another Medical & Health Officer
who examined ‘x’ and found no sign of rape on ‘x. So, the evidence of P.W-
10 also does not support the evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-2 that the accused
entered his finger into the private part of P.W-3 ‘x’.

24. The evidence of P.W-8 Ganesh Das, the investigating officer is mere
official. He investigated the case, drew sketch map Ext-3, took statement of
the witnesses and at the end of investigation, he submitted charge sheet,
Ext-4.

This evidence of P.W-8 will no way meliorate the prosecution case.
25. Taking all into consideration, it appears that the prosecution evidence
is not sufficient and reliable to prove the offences as alleged against the
accused. The prosecution case is dearth of merit.
26. — The prosecution has failed to prove it’s case under section 363 I.P.C
and under section 8 of POCSO Act against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt.
27. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 363 I.P.C and section 8 of POCSO
Act.
28. The accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

The bail bond of accused stands cancelled and the bailor is

discharged from all liabilities.

Contd. to page no. 8
[8]

The case is disposed of.
Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 01% day of
February, 2020 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Transcribed & typed by,
S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.
APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

P.W-1 Sanowar Hussain
P.W-2 Kulsum Begum
P.W-3 ‘x’/the victim

P.W-4 Ashma Khatun
P.W-5 Hafiza Bewa

P.W-6 Amal Kr. Sarkar
P.W-7 Soker Ali

P.W-8 Ganesh Das

P.W-9 Dr. Md. Laskar Ali
P.W-10 Dr. Mazida Sultana

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :-
Ext-1 Ezahar,
Ext-2 Statement of ‘x’ recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-3 Sketch Map,
Ext-4 Charge sheet,
Ext-5 Radiological report,
Ext-6 Medical report.

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT WITNESS fs NIL
COURT EXHIBITS fs NIL

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
