SPL. POCSO No. 29/16.

State. 2211335333335. Complainant.
-Vs-

Noor Ahmed.

S/O Jalil Ahmed.

Vill. Banshkhal.

P.S. Dholai. niints Accused.

U/s 4 of POCSO Acct.

ORDER

Dated 17-07-17.

Accused is present. Today three P.Ws including the
complainant, victim and their mother are present. They are
examined, cross-examined& discharged. Considering the nature of
evidence the learned P.P. has submitted for closure of the
prosecution evidence on the ground that examination of any further
witness would not in any way improve the prosecution case.
Sufficient force is found in the submission. Hence, evidence is
closed. I would like to dispose of the case under provision of Sec
232 Cr.P.C..

Accused is examined. Heard argument of both sides.

In the instance case charge wasframed U/s 4 of
POCSO Act with the accusation that on 04-09-16 in the night the
accused committed penetrative sexual assault with the victim. The
charge when read out and explained, the accused pleaded not
guilty.

P.W.1 is the complainant, the brother of the victim.
According to him, he lodged FIR against the accused on the
allegation that the accused kidnapped her victim sister, but on the
following day the victim was recovered by him. Ext-1 is the FIR
and ext-1(1) is his signature. He also deposed that out of
misunderstanding he lodged the FIR at the instance of the
villager.At present marriage of her victim sister is settled with the
accused.

In his cross-examination he has deposed that at the material
time the age of the victim was above 18 years.

P.W.2 RomiuanBibihas deposed that the victim is_ her
daughter. About one year back the victim was found missing in the
house. On the following morning the victim was recovered by her
son the P.W.1 Shehas also deposed that at present marriage of the
victim has been settled with the accused and she has no grievance
against him.

In her cross-examination she has stated that at the material
time the victim was above 18 years.

P.W.3 Suyana Begum, the victim of this case,has deposed
that she had love affairs with the accused. About one year back she
fled away with the accused but on the following morning she was
recovered by her brother. She has also deposed that out of social
fear she gave statement before the Magistrate against the accused.
At present her marriage is settled with the accused at the instance
of guardian of both the parties.

In her cross-examination she has stated that at the material
time she was above 18 years.

From the above, it reveals that the victim at her own will
went with the accused and at the material time she was of
consenting age.As there is no implicating evidence it can rightly
be arrived at that the prosecution charge is held to be not proved
at all. Accused is thus held to be not guilty of the offence as
charged or whatsoever and he is therefore acquitted and set at liberty
forthwith.

Bail bond stands discharged.
This order of acquittal is pronounced and delivered in
the open Court under my seal & signature of this Court on this 17"
day of July, 2017.

Special Judge.
Cachar, Silchar.
