1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 10/2017 corresponding
to GR Case No.640/2017 & Diphu Police
Station Case No. 124/2017

U/S 363 of the IPC/ 4 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus

Shri Siman Singnar@ Suman Sahani
Name of informant/complainant:

Shri Prabin Pradhan

S/O Lt. Arjun Pradhan

Vill: PWD Colony, Diphu

PS: Diphu

Dist: Karbi Anglong, Assam.
Name of the accused person facing trial:

Shri Siman Singnar

S/O Sri Surja Singnar

Vill- Matipung

P.S: Diphu

District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defense : Mr Rabinson Hanse
Argument heard on : 20.03.2019.

Judgment pronounced & delivered on: 27.03.2018.

UDGMENT
2|Page

It is a case of Kidnapping of a minor girl and
penetrative sexual assault on her alleged to have
been committed by the accused person.

The prosecution case in brief is that on 16-08-
2017 the informant named above lodged a written
ejahar with Diphu Police Station stating inter-alia
that on 11-08-2017 at 2:30 PM while the victim
went out of the house for tution, she went un-trace.
It was learned that the accused person enticed
away the victim who was 15 years old. On receipt of
the written ejahar, Diphu Police Station registered a
criminal case vide Diphu Police Station Case No.
124-17 under section 365 IPC and_ started
investigation. On completion of investigation, the
charge sheet was submitted under sections 366
IPC/8 of the POCSO Act against the accused person.
Hence the prosecution has come up.

On completion of appearance of the present
accused person before the Court, Copy was
supplied to the accused person. Having very
carefully gone through submissions of learned
lawyers of both sides as well as case diary | found
that there was ground for presuming that that the
accused person committed the offenses U/Ss 363 of
the IPC/4 of the POCSO Act and accordingly, the
charges were framed. The particular of the offence
charged was duly read over and explained to the
accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many
as 8 (eight) witnesses including the informant.
Statement of the present accused was recorded
3|Page

under section 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence has declined to
adduce evidence. Plea of defense is of total denial.

5. Points for determination

(i) Whether the present accused person
alongwith other five accused persons on
11.08.2017 at about 2:30 PM at PWD
Colony under Diphu Police Station
kidnapped victim from the possession of
the informant who was legal guardian that
he thereby committed an_ offence
punishable U/S 363 of IPC ?

(ii) Whether the accused on / after 11-08-
2017 at about 2:30 PM at PWD Colony
under Diphu Police Station or in any other
place made penetrative sexual assault
upon the victim and that he thereby
committed an offence punishable under
section 4 of the POCSO Act ?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

6. | have very carefully gone through verbal
arguments advanced by the learned counsels of
both sides as well as evidence on record. At the
very outset, the learned counsel appearing on
behalf of the accused person has contended that
the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the
case beyond all reasonable doubts. On the other
hand, the learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka
refuting the aforesaid submission has submitted
that the prosecution has succeeded in establishing
its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival
submissions, it would be appropriate to give a
glance at evidence record.
4|Page

dis

PW-1 is Shri Prabin Pradhan who has stated that
he is the informant of this case. He knows the
accused person. The victim is his daughter. The
occurrence took place on 11.08.2017. On the day of
occurrence at about 2:30 PM, his daughter went for
tuition. He returned home from duty at 7:30 PM and
as he did not find the daughter at home, he
enquired his wife as to where their daughter had
gone. His wife informed him that their daughter did
not come back from tuition. Thereafter, he searched
her but did not find any clue of her whereabouts. He
informed the matter verbally at Diphu Police
Station. Later, he came to know that the accused
eloped the victim away. He went to the house of the
accused and the mother of the accused informed
him that the accused left for Guwahati and she
asked him not to lodge any case. He suspected that
the accused might have took away the victim and
he lodged FIR at Diphu Police Station. Ext.1 is the
ejahar and Ext.1 (1) is his signature. The victim was
15 years old at the time of occurrence. On 19"
August, police recovered both the victim and the
accused from nearby the house of the accused and
brought them to the police station. Thereafter, the
victim was taken to Diphu Civil Hospital for medical
examination. The Court recorded the statement of
the victim. Later, he came to know that the accused
is a married person and he is the father of two
children.

PW-2 is Smti. Puspanjali Pradhan who has
deposed in his evidence that the informant is her
husband and the victim is her daughter. She does
not know the accused person. The occurrence took
5|Page

place one year back. On the day of occurrence, the
victim went to the tuition and as she did not come
back, they started searching her. But they did not
find her. Thereafter, police recovered both the
victim and the accused person. She failed to say
after how many days police recovered them. The
victim was brought to Diphu Civil Hospital and her
statement was recorded in the Court. At the time of
occurrence, the victim was15 (fifteen) years old.

PW-3 is Shri Bikram Gowala who has deposed in
his evidence that he knows the informant, the
accused and the victim. The informant is his uncle.
On the day of occurrence at about 6:30/7:00 PM,
the informant over telephone informed him that his
daughter, Smti. Kamini Pradhan did not come back
from tuition. They searched for the victim, but did
not find her. On search in the school bag of the
victim, they found the phone number of the
accused and ranged to a friend of the victim, who
told them that the accused often met the victim
while going to school. On suspicion upon he along
with the informant and one Pranay Das went to the
house of the accused, but they did not find him at
his house. At that time, the wife, sister and the
mother of the accused informed them that the
accused went to Guwahati in the morning and did
not come back. In the night of the same day, he
along with his sister, Deepa Das and Pranay Das
went to Guwahati in search of the victim. They
searched the victim and the accused at various
places of Guwahati and then at Dimapur, but did
not find them. On 19 August, the sister of the
accused informed him over telephone that their
mother called him and asked him to come alone to
6|Page

10.

ll.

the Forest Gate, Matipung. He informed this fact to
police of Diphu PS and police asked him to go to
that place alone and they would follow him. On
reaching there, he met the mother and sister of the
accused. After a while, a lady brought the victim to
them. While he was taking the victim in an auto-
rickshaw, police met him and brought them to
police station by boarding on police van. On being
asked, mother of the accused told him that she
found the victim and the accused roaming at the
street of Dimapur and took back the victim, but the
accused fled away. Police took him and the victim
to the place of occurrence. On that day itself, the
victim was taken to Diphu Civil Hospital for her
medical examination and her statement was
recorded in the Court. The Court gave the victim in
the custody of her father. At the time of occurrence,
the victim was reading in Class-IX and she was
14/15 years old.

PW-4 is Smti. Mira Engtipi who has stated in her
evidence that she does not know the informant. The
accused is her son. The occurrence took place
about one year back. One day police came to their
house and informed her that her son took away a
girl. At that time, the accused and the victim were
not at their house. After few days, the accused and
the victim themselves appeared before the police
station. She did not ask anything to the victim.

PW-5 is Shri Babul Teron who testified that he
does not know the informant, but knows the
accused. The accused lives near their house. He
heard that the accused eloped a girl. One day
police came to the house of the accused. At that
time, police took a signature from him on a paper.
7|Page

He does not know after how many days the victim
and the accused were recovered.

12. PW-6 is Smti. Kamini Pradhan who has stated in
his evidence that the informant is her father. She
knows the accused person. The occurrence took
place on 11.8.2017. On that day at about 2-30 PM
she went out for the purpose of attending tuition
class. But she did not go to the tuition class, instead
she went to Diphu railway station and met the
accused there. Thereafter, both of them went to
Dimapur. They stayed three/four days in a hotel at
Dimapur. During the stay in hotel, the accused
made sexual intercourse with her for three/four
times. They planned to leave for Dibrugarh, but as
the train communication was disrupted, they did
not go to Dibrugarh. Thereafter, she alone came to
Diphu by train and getting down from the train, she
met the mother of the accused. Thereafter, mother
of the accused took her in an auto-rickshaw for the
purpose of handing her over to her brother. She
could not say as to where the mother of the
accused took her. Then the mother of the accused
called her (victim) brother and handed her over to
him. At the time of occurrence, she was 15 years
old. Police of Diphu Police Station brought her to the
PS and got her medically examined and recorded
her statement. Ext.2 is her statement and Ext.2 (2)

is her signature.

13. PW-7 is Dr Minakshi Terangpi who deposed that
on 19.8.2017 while she was working as Medical and
Health Officer at Diphu Civil Hospital she examined
Miss Kamin Pradhan in connection with Diphu PS
Case No.124/2017 on police requisition and on

examination she found in her person as follows:
8|Page

14.

15.

No external injuries on her body, no swelling, no
tears, no bruise and no abrasion seen on her
genital parts. In labia minora, she found no injury
and no bleeding and tear in fouchette and vulva.
Perineum is found normal and hymen was torn.
Vagina and cervix admits 1 finger and in anus,
found no injury and bleeding. Urine test did not
show pregnancy. No spermatozoa was detected on
posterior vaginal swab examination. PW-7 opined
that as per radiological examination, the age of the
victim was below 18 years. Ext.3 is the medical
examination report and Ext.3 (1) is her signature.

PW-8 is Shri Hementa Chakraborty who
investigated the case. During investigation, he
recovered the victim, recorded the statements of
the witnesses and prepared the sketch map. He got
the victim medically examined and statement of
the victim recorded and prepared the sketch map.
He also arrested the accused and forwarded him to
the Court and prayed for recording his confessional
statement. He collected the medical examination
report of the victim. During investigation, he prayed
before the Court to add the Sec.8 of the POCSO Act
as the victim was below 18 years as per medical
examination report. On completion § of his
investigation, he submitted charge-sheet U/S 366
of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused,
Shri Siman Singnar. Ext.1 is the ejahar, Ext.4 is
Sketch map and Ext.5 is charge-sheet. Ext.4 (1) and
Ext.5 (1) are his signatures.

For attracting the sections 363 of the IPC and 4
of the POCSO Act, the victim needs to be below 18
years. PW-1 who is the father of the victim has
clearly stated in his evidence as well as in his
9|Page

16.

17.

18.

ejahar that at the time of occurrence the victim was
15 years old. Similarly PW-2 who is mother of the
victim, PW-3 and PW-6 categorically have stated
that at the time of occurrence, the victim was 15
years old. The parents are to the best persons who
know actual age of their children. PW-7 is the
medical officer who has stated that on examination
of victim she found her to be below 18 years. The
defence has not disputed age of the victim below
18 years at the time occurrence. Taking all aspects |
have come to conclusion that at the time of

occurrence, the victim was below 18 years.

Ext-3 is the medical report of the victim which
shows that hymen of the victim was found to have
been torn up. Ext-2 is the statement of the victim
recorded under section 164 of the CrPC wherein she
stated that the accused person made physical
relation with her while she was in Dimapur with
him. It also shows that on 11-08-2017 the accused
person took the victim to Dimapur and after
spending on night in Dimapur Rail Station, they
went to Dibrugarh where in a Hotel they stayed 5
days. The fact itself suggests that sexual
intercourse between the accused and the victim
might have taken place.

From the evidence of PW-1 who is the father of
the victim it appears on 19-03-2017, the victim was
recovered from the possession of the accused.
Evidence of PW-3 also shows that the victim was
recovered from the possession of the mother of the
victim.

In this case, the victim is most important
witness. Her evidence shows that on 11-08-2017 at
10|Page

19.

20.

21.

2:30 PM, she fled away with the accused person to
Dimapur wherein they stayed in a hotel for 3/4 days
and at that time the accused made sexual
intercourse. PW-7 is Medical Officer who examined
the victim. Ext-3 is the Medical report. From
evidence of PW-7 and Ext-3 it appears that hymen
of the victim was found torn. From the evidence of
victim marked as PW-6 shows that the accused
made sexual intercourse with her for 3/4 times

while they were in hotel at Dimapur.

It has been submitted by the learned Lawyer
appearing on behalf of the accused person that the
victim out of love fled away with the accused
person and as such the section 4 of the POCSO Act
will not be attracted to the instant case. From the
cross examination of the victim it appears that the
victim out of love fled away with the accused
person. It is established principle that minor

consent is no consent.

In this instant case the investigating officer got
the confessional statement of the accused person
recorded in the Court. The confessional statement
clearly shows that the victim fled away with the
accused person and that they stayed in a hotel
wherein he made _ sexual intercourse with the
victim. The prosecution has not examined the
Magistrate who recorded confessional statement to
prove the confessional statement. In the instant
case victim is a most vital witness. | find no way to

discard the evidence of victim on material point.

The section 363 of the IPC reads thus:
“The Indian Penal Code. 363. Punishment for

kidnapping.—Whoever kidnaps any person from
11|Page

22.

23.

24.

25.

l[India] or from lawful guardianship, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description
for a term which may extend to seven years, and
Shall also be liable to fine”. The section 361 of the
IPC relates to kidnap of minor female from the legal
guardian which reads thus: “Kidnapping from lawful
guardianship; Whoever takes or entices any minor
under sixteen years of age if a male, or under
eighteen years of age if a female, or any person of
unsound mind, out of the keeping of the lawful
guardian of such minor or person of unsound mind,
without the consent of such guardian, is said to
kidnap such minor or person’ from _ lawful

guardianship”.

The section 4 of the POCSO Act relates to
punishment for committing penetrative sexual
assault which reads thus: “Whoever commits
penetrative sexual assault shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which
Shall be less than seven years but which may
extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be
liable to fine”.

In view of the discussion made above | am
convinced to hold that the prosecution has
succeeded in establishing its case under sections
363 of the IPC/4 of the POCSO Act.

ORDER

In the result, | find the accused person Sri Siman
Singnar guilty under sections 363 of the IPC/ 4 of
the POCSO Act and accordingly he is convicted.

On the point of sentence, the accused person is
heard and to that effect his statement is recorded.
12|Page

It has been submitted by the learned lawyer
appearing on behalf of the accused person that the
accused person is a very poor person who is only
earning member of his family consisting of his wife
and 2 children and as such he deserves to be
punished leniently. He has further submitted that if
the accused person is order to undergo
imprisonment for long period, his family member
will have to spend days without food. There is a no
freedom on the part of Judge to award sentence
beyond the prescribed period. Taking all aspects
into consideration the accused person is ordered to
undergo SI for 6(Six) months under section 363 of
the IPC and RI for 7(Seven) years and to pay fine of
Rs. 500/- id SI for 1(One) month under section 4 of
the POCSO Act. The sentences will run concurrently.
Set off the earlier detention period. Let a certified
copy of the Judgment be furnished to the accused
person at free of cost. No compensation is awarded.
Let a copy of the Judgment be sent to the District
Magistrate in term of the section 365 of the CrPC.
Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

26. Given under hand and seal of this Court today
this the 27" day of March, 2019.

Dictated taken by
Shri K.J. Konwar,
Stenographer, Grade-l.

Dictated and corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
13|Page

Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong,
Diphu.

APPENDIX
Prosecution witnesses:

PW1- Shri Prabin Pradhan

PW2- Smti. Puspanjali Pradhan
PW3- Shri Bikram Gowala

PW4- Smti. Mira Engtipi

PW5- Shri Babul Teron

PW6- Smti. Kamini Pradhan
PW7- Dr Minakshi Terangpi

PW8- Shri Hementa Chakraborty

Defence witness: Nil.

Prosecution exhibits:

Ext.1- Ejahar

Ext.2- Statement of the Victim
Ext.3- Medical Examination Report
Ext.4- Sketch Map

Ext.5- Charge Sheet

Defence exhibit: Nil.

Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
