IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present : Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 80 OF 2017
(G.R. Case No. 329 of 2016)
Jorhat P.S. Case No. 225 of 2016

Transmitting Magistrate:-

Smt. Rani Boro,
Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat District

State of Assam
-Versus-

Md. Sahidul Ali,

Son of Late Aledul Ali,

Resident of Negheriting Bor Line,
P.S. Dergaon,

District-Golaghat.

Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P.,
Jorhat

For the Accused: Smt. Ruby Ara Begum, Learned Advocate,
Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTIONS 366-A/376 OF INDIAN _
PENAL CODE READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF _
CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 22-09-2017
Date of prosecution evidence : 30-11-2017; 09-01-2018; 23-

02-2018

& 02-07-2018
Statement of Accused
Recorded on : 03-08-2018
Date of Argument : 03-08-2018
1 idgment : 06-08-2018

ASE NO. 80 OF 2017
UDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Jorhat P.S. Case No.
225/2016 under Section 366-A of IPC was registered on the basis
of a F.I.R. lodged by Md. Abdul Basir @ Basiruddin, the father of victim
girl [hereinafter referred to as ‘X’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 01/02/2016 [Exhibit-4] the
father of victim girl alleged, inter-alia, that on 30/01/2016 the accused
kidnapped his minor daughter from his house. It is further alleged by
the informant that accused was a married person.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the then In-charge,
Bhogdoi O.P. under Jorhat P.S. the same was entered in General Diary
Register vide No. 3 dated 01/02/2016. The ejahar was sent to Officer-in-
charge, Jorhat PS. for registration of a case. The Officer-in-charge,
Jorhat P.S., registered Jorhat PS. Case No. 225/2016 under Section 366-
A of IPC.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was
medically examined by the doctor, her statement under Section 164 of
Cr.P.C. was recorded. Police, on completion of investigation, filed
charge-sheet, in the case, against the above named accused Md.
Sahidul Ali u/Ss. 366/376 of IPC vide Charge-sheet No. 510/2017 dated
31-07-2017.

2). The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jorhat, transmitted the
case to this Court for trial. Copy was furnished to the accused in due
course.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the

documents submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of
the accused and the prosecution in this behalf, charges were
accordingly framed under Sections 366-A/376 of IPC read with Section
4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The
charges were read over and explained to the accused, to which, the
accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

2
4). During the course of trial, 08 [eight] numbers of
witnesses including the victim, her parent, Medical Officer and the I.O.
were examined on behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge u/Ss.
366-A/376 of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above
named accused was recorded u/S. 313 of CrPC. and the accused
stated that he had been falsely implicated in the case. He stated that
victim was in love with him and on the date of incident she, on her own
volition, went with him. At present, the victim is staying with him
alongwith his son aged one year & 2 months. The accused pleaded
innocence. No witness was adduced by the accused in his defence.

5). | have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public
Prosecutor for the State as well as Smt. Ruby Ara Begum, learned
counsel for the accused, who is facing trial for commission of offence
u/Ss. 366-A/376 of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as
follows:-

1) Whether on or about 30/01/2016 before the date of filing
of the ejahar by the informant Md. Abdul Basir @
Basirudding on 01/02/2016, the accused named above
kidnapped the minor daughter of the informant from his
house with intent that she may be or knowing that it is
likely that she will be forced (or seduced) to _ illicit
intercourse with another person and thereby committed
an offence punishable under Section 366-A of IPC?

2) Whether the accused named above committed rape on
the minor victim girl of the informant and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 376 of
IPC?

3

ASE NO. 80 OF 2017
3) Whether during the same period and time the accused
named above committed penetrative sexual assault upon
the victim girl aged above eleven years but below
eighteen years and thereby committed an offence
punishable under Section 4 of The Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7). To decide the above charged sections of law against accused
let uS examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses
alongwith the documents.

PW-1 is the victim girl who during her deposition in Court
stated that she had love affair with the accused. On the date of
incident she was present inside her residence. The victim further stated
that due to torture meted upon her by her stepmother she decided to
elope with the accused and thereafter she called the accused to her
house and eloped with him [accused]. Thereafter, both of them resided
at Nazira in the district of Sivasagar. After some days her father called
both of them to his residence where Nikah was performed. At present,
she is residing in the house of her father as the accused is lodged in jail
hajot. It is further version of the victim that out of wedlock with the
accused she bore a male child who is at present eight months old.
When she went missing from the house her father lodged ejahar before
police. The accused was arrested by police after four months back. She
was Called to the police station wherefrom she was produced before a
doctor for medico legal check-up. She was also brought to the court
where Magistrate recorded her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
vide Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-l [1] and Exhibit-1 [2] are her
signatures.

During cross-examination, she stated that she was a major
girl at the time of incident and on the date of incident she on her own
eloped with the accused. She categorically stated that accused did not
force her to accompany him to Nazira in the district of Sivasagar.

8). PW-2 is Md. Abdul Basir @ Basiruddin who is the father
of the victim-cum-informant of the case. This witness during his
deposition stated that on the date of incident her daughter went
missing from the house. He searched for his daughter [PW-1] but could
not find her whereabout. After fifteen days of incident his daughter
returned back home alongwith the accused. Thereafter, Nikah was
performed in between his daughter and the accused. The accused was
arrested by police as he had lodged ejahar against him after the
incident. It is further version of this witness that police seized the birth
certificate of his daughter on being produced by him.

During cross-examination, he divulged that birth
certificate of the victim was obtained by him after she was admitted in
the school. At present, the age of her daughter is 19 years. The
informant categorically stated that he has no objection if accused is
acquitted in the case as he is his son-in-law.

9). The evidence of Smt. Firoza Begum [PW-3] who is the
mother of victim is to the effect that accused is her son-in-law. This
witness further deposed alike as that of her husband [PW-2]. It is
further stated by this witness that police seized the birth certificate of
the victim from her husband vide seizure-list [Exhibit-2] wherein
Exhibit-2 [1] is her signature.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side
stated that she does not know why her signature was obtained in a
paper. She further stated that she has no objection if accused is
acquitted in the instant case.

10). Smt. Marami Dutta [PW-4] is the Women Police
Constable who accompanied the victim [PW-1] before the doctor where
the victim refused to enter medico legal examination. This witness
further stated that she accompanied the victim to the court where

5 ASE NO. 80 OF 2017
Magistrate recorded her statement. She exhibited the medico legal
report of victim as Exhibit-3 and the statement of victim recorded by
the Magistrate as Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-3 [1] & Exhibit-1 [3] are her
respective signature.

Defence side declined to cross-examine this witness.

11). The evidence of Md. Afazuddin [PW-5] is of no help to the
prosecution as he deposed that when he returned back home after his
daily work on the date of incident he heard that victim fled away with
someone.

This witness was also not cross-examined by defence.

12). Md.Abdul Hussain [PW-6] who is a rickshaw puller
deposed that victim is known to him. On the date of incident he heard
from nearby people that victim fled away with someone. He was
present when police seized the original birth certificate of the victim on
being produced by her father vide seizure-list [Exhibit-2] wherein he
put his signature as Exhibit-2 [2].

Defence side declined to cross-examine this witness.

13). Sri Gaurab Chetia [PW-7] and Sri Keshab Das [PW-8]
are the |.0’s of the case who deposed about the routine steps taken by
them during investigation of the case.

Sri Gaurab Chetia [PW-7] further deposed that on
completion of investigation he submitted charge-sheet against the
accused vide C.S. No. 510/2017 which he exhibited during trial as
Exhibit-5 and his signature thereon vide Exhibit-5 [1].

This witness during cross-examination by defence side
stated that one child aged 4 months was also there which belonged to

the accused as well as victim.

14). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen
that the accused is the husband of victim [PW-1] which has been
corroborated by the victim during course of evidence as well as her
parent [PW-2 & PW-3].

During cross-examination, both the parent of victim
stated that they have no objection if the accused is acquitted in the
case as he is their son-in-law.

The evidence of victim [PW-1] and her parent [PW-2 &
PW-3] gets full corroboration from the testimony of investigating officer
[PW-7] who stated during cross-examination that he found one child
aged 04 months which belonged to accused as well as victim.

15). The accused during his statement under Section 313
Cr.P.C. had stated that he had been falsely implicated in the case. He
stated that victim was in love with him and on the date of incident she
on her own volition went with him. At present, the victim is staying with
him alongwith his son aged one year & 2 months.

16). The investigating officer of the instant case has seized school
certificate of the victim from her parent to show that the victim is a
child/minor less than 18 [eighteen] years as on the date of commission
of offence vide seizure-list [Exhibit-2] wherein it has been reflected by
the I.0. the date of birth of victim as 05/04/2003.

17). The victim during investigation of the case was produced
before a doctor for medico legal report which gets full corroboration
from the evidence of Smt. Marami Dutta, WPC No. 322 [PW-4]. This
witness stated that she produced the victim before the doctor but the
victim refused to enter medico legal examination. She exhibited the
prescription of doctor as Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is her
signature. However, as victim has not supported the case of
prosecution and the fact that parent of victim had also corroborated
the victim by stating that the accused is their son-in-law, so accused
cannot be implicated on the alleged charges against him.

7

ASE NO. 80 OF 2017
18). On scrutinizing the evidence on record, considering the
entire aspect of the matter and the evidence, produced by the
prosecution, | am of the considered opinion that the prosecution has
failed to establish that the accused committed rape on the victim.
Hence, accused is entitled to acquittal under benefit of doubt against
charged sections, i.e., 366-A/376 of IPC as well as under Section 4 of
The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which |

accordingly do.

19). In the result, accused Md. Sahidul Ali is acquitted of the
charges levelled against him on benefit of doubt and he is set at liberty
forthwith from the charges under Sections 366-A/376 of IPC read with
Section 4 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

Accused is on bail. The bail bond of accused is extended
for another 06 [six] months from today as per provision of Section
437-A Cr.P.C.

20). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 06" day
of August 2018.

Special Judge, Jorhat
Continued to Page No:-9

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

PW-1 Victim girl-cum-informant of the case.

PW-2 Md. Abdul Basir @ Basiruddin, father of
victim-cum-informant of the case.

PW-3 Smt. Firoza Begum, stepmother of victim.

PW-4 Smt. Marami Dutta, WPC No. 322.

PW-5 Md. Afazuddin, daily wage earner.

PW-6 Md. Abdul Hussain, rickshaw puller.

PW-7 Sri Gaurab Chetia, 1.0. of the case.

PW-8 Sri Keshab Das, another |I.O. of the case.

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

Exhibit-1 Statement of victim recorded by the
learned Magistrate under Section 164
Cr.P.C.

9 ASE NO. 80 OF 2017
10

Exhibit-2
Exhibit-3
Exhibit-4
Exhibit-5
Exhibit-6

Seizure-list

Seizure-list

Ejahar

Charge-sheet

Sketch Map of the place of occurrence
with index

MATERIAL EXHIBIT:- NIL

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-1)

10
