(1)

Before The Special Judge,
Cachar at_ Silchar.

Present: Mr. D.Ullah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

Spl(POCSO) Case No. 05 / 2019
u/s 4 of the POCSO Act
The State of Assam
-Versus-
Jashim Uddin Barbhuiya

beceeeeaaes accused person

Dates of evidence : 13.12.19

Date of argument : 13.12.19

Date of judgment : 13.12.19

Appearance:-

For the Prosecution : Miss. B. Acharjee, Id. .Spl.P.P.
For the Defence : Mr. D.H.Mazumder. Ld. Advocate

JIU DGMENT
(2)

1. The brief facts of the prosecution case is that the
informant cum victim had lodged an ejahar dated 18.4.16
stating that prior to two months from the date of lodging the FIR
i.e. on 18.4.16 at Barjatrapur under Borkhola P.S the accused
committed rape upon the victim -informant and the accused also
committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim.

Za Accordingly, on receipt of the ejehar, police registered a
case being Borkhola P.S Case No.126/16 u/s 417/376 of the IPC.
Thereafter, on completion of investigation police submitted a
charge sheet against the present accused person u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act and sent up the accused person to face trial.

3. The Ld. CJM., Cachar, Silchar committed the case to the
to this court . Thereafter, on 20.3.19 this court received the case
record and registered the same as a Spl(POCSO) case. The
accused person namely, Jashim Uddin Barbhuiya has appeared
before this court and on 26.4.19 after hearing the prosecution
and the defence counsel, this court was pleased to frame
charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused person and
its particular was read over and explained to him to which the
accused pleaded not guilty and stood to face the trial.

4. Thereafter, the trial of this case was commenced , during
which the prosecution examined the informant -victim of the
case as the P.W.1 .The Ld. Spl.P.P has submitted that the
prosecution evidence may be closed as the informant - victim
has not supported the case of the prosecution. In view of the

evidence of the P.W.1 , the statement of the accused person u/
(3)
S 313 of the Cr.P.C is dispensed with as informant-victim i.e. the
P.W.1 has failed to implicate the accused person with the

alleged offence.

5. Heard the Ld. Spl.P.P and also the Ld. Counsel appearing

for the accused person .

6. Point for determination:-

(i)Whether prior to two months from the date of lodging
of the FIR i.e. on 18.4.16 at Barjatrapur under Borkhola P.S the
accused person committed rape upon the victim -informant and
that the accused person also committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim -informant, as alleged ?

Discussion , Decision and Reasons Thereof :-

7. In this case the prosecution side examined only the
informant - victim of the case as the P.W.1.

8. The P.W.1 is the victim of the case and she deposed that
the occurrence took palce in the year 2016. She also stated that
she was in love affairs with the accused and eloped with the
accused and stayed as husband and wife at his rented house at
Itkhola for about a month and thereafter she went to his house
but his in laws did not allow her to stay there and then she came
back to her parents house and lodged the FIR . The said FIR is
brought on record as the Ext.1. She also stated that she was
medically examined and her statement u/s 164 of the Cr.P.C was

also recorded. The said statement is brought on record as the
(4)
Ext.2. The P.W.1 further stated that her husband took her to his
house and presently she is staying with her husband i.e the
accused peacefully. She also stated that at the time of
occurrence, she was 18 years old.

During cross-examination the P.W.1 admitted that her
present age is 22 years and the occurrence took place about 3
years ago. She also stated that as the family of her in laws had
not accepted her and did not allow her to say in their house so
she filed the ejehar as per advice of the villagers. During cross-
examination she admitted that the villagers written the FIR and
she only put her signature over it and that she does not know
the contents of the FIR. The P.W.1 i.e. the victim also stated
during her cross-examination that presently she is living with the
accused as his wife peacefully and that she has no grievances
against the accused person.

9. Appreciating the materials on record, it is found that
though the informant P.W.1 during her deposition before the
court has failed to implicate the accused person rather she gave
clean chit to the accused by stating that presently she is living
with the accused as his wife in his house . That apart, the victim
in her evidence also stated that at the relevant time of
occurrence she was 18 years of old .

10. In view of the above position, I am of the opinion that the
prosecution side failed to prove that the victim is below 18 years
of age at the time of occurrence. That apart, — the victim has

implicated the accused person in respect of the offence charged
(S)

against the accused person i.e. the offence u/s 4 of the POCSO
Act.

11. It is the bounden duty of the prosecution to prove the
necessary ingredients of the offence against the accused person
beyond all reasonable doubt .

12. Upon consideration of all the oral and documentary
evidence on record as discussed above, I have found that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove the charges against

the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt.

O R DE R
13. Considering the materials available on record, I found that
the prosecution has failed to prove the alleged offence u/s 4 of
the POCSO Act against the accused person present today
beyond reasonable doubt. As a result, the accused person

namely, Jashim Uddin Barbhuiya is acquitted and set at liberty.

Set my hand and seal of this case on the 13” day of
December, 2019.

( Mr.D.Ullah),

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Dictated & corrected by me ;

Special Judge, Cachar, Silchar.
(6)

APPENDIX

A.Prosecution Witnesses:-
P.W.1-victim

B.Prosecution Exhibits:-
Ext.1-FIR
Ext.2-statement u/s 164 of the Cr.P.C

C.Defence witnesses :- NIL
D.Defence Exhibits:- NIL

E.Court witness:- NIL.

( Mr.D.Ullah),
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by-
S.A.Laskar,
Stenographer
(7)
