Page 1 of 15

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

36 OF 2016
(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 3288 of
2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
Md. Sahidul Islam
Son of Abdul Mutleb
Resident of Gudamghat Miri,
Police Station — Chariduar
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
21/06/2017

29/07/2017, 24/08/2017,
07/09/2017, 31/10/2017,
14/06/2018, 20/06/2018.

20/06/2018.

20/06/2018

20/06/2018

Mr. Munin Ch. Baruah
Special Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Mr. P. Sing Sethi, Advocate.
Page 2 of 15

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md. Sahidul Islam is put for trial for allegation
of charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that at night 12 O’
clock on 30-09-2016 accused secretly trespassed into their house, entered
into the room where informant’s 14 years old minor daughter was slept
and committed rape upon her. Taking advantage of went out of informant’s
mother to attend nature’s call accused fled away and out of fear she could
not state to anybody. Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by
complainant Alaluddin on 01-10-2016 before the O/C Chariduar Police

station.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of
Chariduar Police Station registered a case being Chariduar P.S. Case No.
150/16 dated 01-10-2016 under section 6 of the POCSO Act. After
completion of usual investigation, the O/C Chariduar Police Station filed
charge sheet u/s 6 of the POCSO Act against the accused Md. Sahidul

Islam.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, framed charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused
Md. Sahidul Islam and particulars of the charge was read over, explained to

the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined six numbers of
witnesses. After completion of investigation, accused is examined u/s 313
Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and evidence appears
against the accused are put before him for explanation. To buttress the

defence, accused examined one Defence witness.

6. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of
both sides.

 
Page 3 of 15

7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on 30-09-2016, at night at about 12 O’ clock at NK
Gudamghat, under Chariduar Police station, the accused committed
penetrative sexual assault on “Miss X” (victim) and thereby committed
an offence punishable under section 4 of the Protection of Child from

Sexual Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at a judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on

record.

9. PW 1 Dr. Amarjit Kaur, stated that on 01-10-2016 he was posted
as working as Sub-Divisional Medical & Health Officer in the Kanaklata Civil
Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at about 3 P.M. in the labour room
complex of KCH, he examined Miss Majila Khatoon , 14 years, D/O Md.
Suleman Ali of Gudamghat, PS Chariduar, in reference to Chariduar PS
Case No. 150/16 under section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012, on being escorted
and identified by WHG Biju Bharali, vide hospital registration No.
71193/E/16 in presence of GNM Kamala Talukdar. The victim girl was
accompanied by her father and consent for examination was taken from
her father prior to examination. On examination of her private parts she

found the following:

Identification mark — A black spot present on the supra sternal
notch. Menstrual history — regular cycle with normal fluid. LMP — 17-09-
2016. History of sexual exposure on 30-09-2016.

Height, 153 cm, Weight — 35 kg , Teeth 14/14.

At the time of examination, she was well dress, neat and tidy girl.
Her gait is normal. Her secondary sexual characters are well developed.
Vulva vagina healthy. Hymen — absent. Vaginal smear was taken and send
for laboratory examination. There is no mark of injury was seen on her

body as well as in her private parts.

Investigations advised and reports-

 
Page 4 of 15

1.Vaginal smear for spermatozoa — No sperm seen. Done at KCH
Laboratory, Lab No. 110 dated 01-10-2016.

2. Urine for HCG — negative, done at Assam X-ray clinic &
Laboratory. Patient ID No. — 31542 Pathologist Dr. D. Mahanta.

3. X-ray of left wrist joint, elbow joint, and iliac crest (for age
determination- Union of the epiphysis of the lower ends of radius and ulna
are nearing completion.

All epiphysis of the bone around the elbow joint have fused.

Epiphysis of the iliac crest has appeared but not fused.

Age of the person under investigation appears to be just
under 18 years.
4. USG of pelvis — Normal pelvic organs and non gravid uterus.

X-ray and USG done at Assam X-ray clinic & Laboratory, Tezpur.
OPINION:

1. There is no signs and symptoms of recent sexual intercourse.
2. No marks of violence seen on her body and private parts.

3. Age of the victim girl appears to be just under 18 years.

4. No other injury seen.

5. The victim girl is not pregnant.

Enclosures:

1. Hospital registration card.

2. Vaginal smear report.

3. Urine and HCG report

4. X-ray plates and report.

5. USG — pelvis films and report.

Ext. 1 is the Medical Report and Ext. 1 (1) is her signature. Ext. 2 is
USG report along with films and X-ray plate and report and Ext. 2(1) is the
signature of Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist, which is known to her of Assam
X-ray clinic & Laboratory. Ext. 3 is the vaginal smear report and Ext. 3(1) is

the signature of laboratory technician of KCH which she knows. Ext. 4 is

 
Page 5 of 15

report of Urine for HCG and Ext. 4(1) is the signature of Dr. D Mahanta,

Pathologist which is known to her.

10. PW 2, Allaluddin, complainant and elder brother of the victim,
stated that on 30-09-2016 at about 12 PM while his victim sister intend to
go outside then his mother Hazera Khatun advanced her with a “chaki” in
her hand. Accused Sahidul Islam secretly entered into the room of
“vonti’(victim) and entered into the mosquito net of the bed of his sister.
After returning his sister from toilet while his sister went to her bed, then
accused suddenly gagged her mouth and committed rape upon her 3 — 4
times. During that time, there was about 2 a.m. During that time while the
cows were moose his mother went out to see the cattle in cattle shed with
a chaki. Then she noticed accused tried to flee away from our house. Then
accused Sahidul Islam forcefully hold the hand of his mother, put off the
chaki and fled away. As the accused raped his sister for 3 times so she
became such a state so she could not able to speak. In the morning time,
his sister told his mother about the incident. The victim also reported him
that accused gagged her mouth and committed rape on her 3-4 times.
Thereafter, he filed the ejahar before the police station. Ext. 5 is the ejahar
and Ext. 5(1) is his signature. Lateron police came and send the victim for
medical examination and then forwarded her to the court to record her

statement.

In cross-examination of PW 2, he admitted that Ext. A is an affidavit
sworn on 11-11-2016 and Ext. A(1) is his signature. He also admitted that
after about 20 days of the incident a village meeting was held. After the
said village meeting the accused married his sister and kept her in his
house as a wife for three months. Then with the help of police they have
recovered his sister from the house of the accused person. Now, his

sister/victim is residing at his elder brother’s house at Kharopetia.

11. PW 3 Miss X, the victim of the case, stated before the court that on
30-09-2016 at about 12 O'clock at night the incident took place. At the
relevant time her father was not there. She was slept alone in a room. In

another room her 7/8 years old younger brother was slept with her mother.

 
Page 6 of 15

At about 12 O’ clock at night she along with her mother went out to attend
nature’s call, during that time accused secretly trespassed into their house.
After coming from outside her mother went to her room and she went to
her room. Firstly accused gagged her mouth and committed misdeed to
her. She seen the accused in the little light of solar light. He committed
rape on her for 2/3 times. First time as the accused has gagged her mouth
so she could not raise alarm but in the second and third time though she
attempted to raise alarm but could not. Her mother went out to cowshed
and then came to see her. On being seen her mother accused put off the
‘chaki” which was taken by her mother and ran away. As she was very
weak so she could not report about the incident to her mother on the said
night but in the morning time she narrated whole story to her mother and
elder brother. Thereafter, her brother filed this case. Her 164 Cr.P.C

statement was recorded by learned Magistrate on 06-10-2016.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she read upto class VIII. In
the year 2017 she left the school. She was reading in Borpatgaon ME
School. They have five brothers and sisters. Elder one is Harun Ali, second
one is Alaluddin, 3 one is she herself, 4" Akibul Islam and 5 one one
Asadul Islam. Her elder brother Harun used to reside at Kharupetia. Her
brother Alaluddin reside at a separate house but in the same court-yard.
She along with her parents and two younger brothers reside in the same
house. She has not submitted any birth certificate. Due to such act of the
accused she sustained injury on her mouth, private parts and breasts.
Accused grabbed her body and blood was oozing out from her private
parts. She was treated at KCH, Tezpur. She has also taken treatment at
Nagaon Civil Hospital. All the said medical documents submitted before the
police. He admitted that after performing marriage with the accused she
lived with him as husband and wife for about 5 months and the said

marriage was performed by a Kaji.

12. PW 4 Md. Ahijul Islam stated that he knows the accused. The
incident took place about one year ago. The brother of the victim,

Allaluddin called him over phone on one Saturday to the police station.

 
Page 7 of 15

Accordingly, he went to Chariduar Police station where he saw victim and
brother of the victim. The brother of the victim asked him to enquire about
the incident to the victim. The victim reported him that accused Sahidul
entered into their house at about 12 O’clock in the night and committed
rape on her. After about 1/ 2 hours, while accused came out, the mother of
the victim came to know about the visit of somebody so she raised alarm.
Then accused ran away by pushing victim’s mother and that is why they
came to police station to lodge the FIR. The incident was taken place in the

previous night.

In cross-examination, he admitted that he has read upto class IV
standard. The victim’s entire family member earlier used to reside at
Kharupetia. Around 10 years back the family of victim came from
Kharupetia and settled at Gudamghat, Chariduar. When the victim family
came from Kharupetia they all stayed at his residence for about 6 months
and the victim's brother Allaluddin working with him as tailoring. There is a
frequent going to the victim’s family member by him as they are well
conversant with him. His house is 1 km away from the house of victim. On
the date of incident, he did not came to the house of victim, neither the
victim nor her family members rang him over telephone informing about
the said incident. He has given his statement before the police for once

only. He knows how to read and write Assamese.

13. PW 5 Hedayatulla deposed that he knows the accused Sahidul. He
also know the victim Majila @ Manjila Khatoon. Both are from his village.
The incident took place about one year ago. Next day of the incident, he
heard from the mother of the victim and villagers that one thief came to

the house of informant.

In cross-examination, he admitted that Police recorded his
statement.
He has stated before the police that on the date of the incident who was
the thief he cannot say. He stated before the police that the informant with
conspiracy filed a false case against the accused and accused Sahidul is not

a man of bad character. He knows that marriage took place between the

 
Page 8 of 15

accused Sahidul and Majila @ Manjila Khatoon. Now, they are living
together as husband and wife. Today he has seen the alleged victim girl
came to the court with the accused together. He knows that accused is a
law student. Mother of the victim had not stated before him that who was

the thief to have been to their house.

14. PW 6 Sri Jitu M. Deka stated that on 01-10-2016 he was posted as
O/C of Chariduar Police station. On that day, he has received a written
ejahar from one Alaluddin. On receipt the ejahar he has registered a case
vide Charduar PS Case No. 150/16 u/s 6 of pOCSO Act and he himself took
up the charge of investigation. He has recorded the statement of
complainant, visited the place of occurrence and prepared the sketch map
vide Ext. 7 and Ext. 7(1) is his signature. Then he sent the victim for
medical examination. He has also recorded her statement and also sent her
to the learned Magistrate for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. He
has arrested the accused. After completion of usual investigation and after
collecting the medical report and finding sufficient materials he has filed
charge-sheet against the accused u/s 6 of POCSO Act. Ext. 8 is the charge-
sheet and Ext. 8(1) is his signature. Ext. 5(2) is his signature in Ext. 5.

In cross-examination he admitted that when he visited the place of
occurrence, it was found that on the date of incident, the mother, elder
brother, two younger brothers were present in their house. He has not
examined mother, father as well as the younger brother of the victim who
were residing with the victim. The wearing apparels of the victim as well as
the bed sheet which were there on the date of incident were not seized by
him and sent for FSL examination. The accused was also not sent for
medical examination and the wearing apparels of the accused were not
seized by him and sent for FSL examination. There was no electricity
connection in the house of the victim. He has not seized any “chaki” or
lantern or any bulb from the house of the victim. There was no any solar
electricity connection in the house of the victim. He has not examined the
neighbouring witnesses, Ahmed Ali, Mursida Begum, Mubarak Hussain, Ajit

Ali Anowar, Soleman Ali and gaonburah Abal. He has examined three

 
Page 9 of 15

independent witnesses, Andadul Islam, Hadayatulla and Ahidul Islam.

Witness Hadayatulla stated before him that “last night in the
house of Md. Allaluddin some theif have entered which I came to know but
I cannot say what are the articles stolen away by the thief and who has
stolen the articles and who was the thief. The informant by themselves by
their own had falsely implicated the accused Sahidul by conspiring and had
a filed a false case against the accused. The accused Sahidul is of a good

character.”

Witness Ahidul stated before him that the accused Sahidul belongs
to our village and he bears good moral character our village and he is a
social worker. Last night in the house of Allaluddin there was a hue and cry
which I heard, for entering a thief into the house but know but I cannot

say what are the articles stolen away by the thief.”

Witnesses, Ahidul and Hadayatulla did not implicate the accused

in the alleged offence.

Witness Allaluddin did not state to him that “during that time while
the cows were moose my mother went out to see the cows with chaki then
she noticed the accused tried to flee away from our house. Then accused
forcefully hold the hands of my mother, put off the chaki and fled away. As
the accused raped my sister three times so such a state she could not be
able to speak and in the morning my sister told my mother about the
alleged incident and the victim also reported me that the accused gagged

her mouth and committed rape on her.”

During investigation he did not find that the victim girl has not
taken any treatment with Nagaon Annath Ashram Hospital. He has sent
the victim for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. to the court on 06-
10-2016. The victim girl Musstt Majila Khatoon did not state before
me that —

(i) “IT have seen accused in the solar light.”

(ii) “The accused committed rape upon me for three times.”

(iii) | “On 01-10-2016 at about 6 p.m. the accused through the

 
Page 10 of 15

window of our house had asked me whether my father had
returned back or not and thereafter he left the place.”
(iv) | “From my bed room to the cattle shed it is around 45 to 50
fts away”
15. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Accused

pleads total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

16. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution has
failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt firstly, the victim
herself admitted in cross-examination that after performing marriage with
the accused she lived with him as husband and wife for five months and
the marriage was performed in presence of Kaji. Therefore, the allegation
made against the accused is totally false. Secondly, even at the time of
filing bail petition, the complainant and victim filed a petition being No.
1684/16 followed by two affidavits. The complainant in the said affidavit,
stated that he along with his other family members have accepted Md.
Sahidul Islam as their son-ion-law as well as brother-in-law and when the
victim Miss Mojila Khatun will atain the age of majority, marriage will be
performed and he has got no objection if the court has allowed the
accused to go on bail. Similarly, the victim stated that she accepted Md.
Sahidul Islam as her husband and the social marriage between them will
be performed as soon as she attained the age of majority and she has got
no objection if the Hon’ble court has granted bail to the accused. Thirdly,
after examination of all the non-official witnesses i.e. on 14-06-2018 the
victim filed a petition being No. 1245/18 followed by an affidavit stating
inter-alia that she got married with the accused as per Shariat law and
lived together as husband and wife at her in-law’s house for a period of 6
months. Her elder brother filed the case against the accused due to some
misunderstanding which has crept up between the parties here and
thereafter the petitioner was taken away by the said elder brother of the
alleged victim to her parental house. On 27-05-2018 the petitioner Manjila
Khatun had returned to her in-law’s house and since thereafter both the
petitioner and accused residing as husband and wife under one roof and as

such the petitioner does not want to proceed with the case against her

 
Page 11 of 15

husband/accused. The aforesaid petition is followed by an affidavit and a
resident certificate issued by Govt. Goanburah. Fifthly, the doctor opined
that there is no sign and symptoms of recent sexual intercourse, No marks
of violence seen on her body and private parts, Age of the victim girl
appears to be just under 18 years, No other injury seen and the victim girl
is not pregnant. But according to the victim in such act of the accused she
sustained injury on her body including her private parts and breast and she
was bleeding but doctor did not find any injury not only on her private
parts but also on her body. Had there been a forceful intercourse a victim
must sustain injury but here in this case, the doctor found no injury neither
found any trace of recent sexual intercourse.

17. On the other hand, learned Public Prosecutor, vehemently
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case against the
accused beyond any reasonable doubt. Hence, convicted the accused

according to the charged section.

18. Keeping in mind the rival submissions advanced by learned counsel

of both sides, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

19. In the instant case, the charge against the accused is penetrative
sexual assault i.e. u/s 4 of POCSO Act. The doctor opined that the age of
the victim is just below 18 years. The report of the doctor is nothing but a
medical evidence. It has been held in Jai Mala Vs. Home Secretary,
Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir and others AIR 1982 SC 1297 wherein
it has been observed by Hon’ble Supreme Court that margin of error in age
ascertained by radiological examination two years on either side.

Here in this case according to the doctor the victim is just below 18
years therefore, her age may be just below 20 years or just above 16
years, if I give allowance of 2 years on either side. That apart, it is
interesting to note that the I.O. has failed to collect any birth certificate or
school certificate of the victim. Therefore, the age of the victim remained
confirm.
20. Another aspect is to be considered in the present case is that in this

type of cases the onus is always on the prosecution to prove affirmatively

 
Page 12 of 15

each ingredient of the offence it seeks to establish and such onus never
shifts. The law is well settled that the main evidence in all such cases is
that of the victim herself. In practice a conviction for rape almost entirely
depends on the credibility of the woman, so far as the essential ingredients
are concerned, the other evidence being merely corroborative. It is not
necessary that there should be independent corroboration of every material
circumstance in the sense that the independent evidence in the case, apart
from the testimony of the complainant, should in itself be sufficient to
sustain conviction. All that is required is that there must be some additional
evidence rendering it probable that the story of the complainant is true and
that is reasonable safe to act upon. The evidence, no doubt, should not
only make it safe to believe that the crime was committed but must in
some way reasonably connect or tend to connect the accused with the
crime. Corroboration may be by facts and circumstances.

Here in this case, according to the prosecution story other than
victim none has stated about the alleged penetrative sexual assault. As
stated above doctor opined that there is no sign and symptoms of recent
sexual intercourse, No marks of violence seen on her body and private
parts, Age of the victim girl appears to be just under 18 years, No other
injury seen and the victim girl is not pregnant. On the other hand the
statement of the victim reveals that when the victim and her mother went
out to attend nature’s call accused secretly entered into her room. She has
seen the accused in the light of solar light but I.O. stated that there is no
any electricity neither any solar light in the house of the victim as such no
such solar light or solar bulb was seized. Besides that according to her
statement accused committed rape on her for 2/3 times but said statement
is not made before the I.O. Therefore, the said statement is contradictory.
Besides that, though she stated that in first committing of rape, though she
attempted to raise alarm but accused gagged her mouth but could not
raise alarm. But in second and third time when accused committed rape
she tried to raise alarm but could not. That apart, according to her
statement in the room adjacent to her room her mother and brother were

sleeping, if she raised alarm they could have heard. Neither in the second

 
Page 13 of 15

and third attempt she could have avoided by forcefully leaving the bed but
she did not do so.

Another aspect is to be looked into, the statement of the victim that
according to her on being came to know that someone has come her
mother has gone out to the cowshed with a chaki in her hand. Thereafter,
her mother came to her room to see her but accused on being seen her
mother put off the chaki and fled away but the I.O. failed to record the
statement of her mother, therefore that portion of statement of victim is
remained doubtful.

Another aspect is to be considered in this case is that according to
her as she became very weak so she did not informed the matter to her
mother in the said night but she informed the matter to her mother in the
next morning. Non-informing about such a serious allegation against the
accused on that very night to her mother cannot be ruled out her consent
in the said alleged sexual act.

Despite that victim herself admitted in cross-examination that after
performing marriage she lived with the accused as husband and wife for 5
months where their marriage was performed by Kaji. Her statement can be
stated to be a corroborated with Ext. A and B. i.e. Affidavits filed by
complainant Md. Allaluddin and victim Miss Majila Khatoon respectively at
the time of application for bail of the accused at the initial stage. Besides
that has also been corroborated with the application filed by the victim
followed by an affidavit vide petition No. 1245/18 wherein the victim
herself stated that she married the accused as per Chariat law and lived
together as husband and wife for a long period of last 6 months. She
further stated that her brother Allaluddin has filed this case due to
misunderstanding and on 27-05-2018 she returned to her in-law’s house
and since then they are residing together as husband and wife under one
roof and as such the petitioner does not want to proceed with the case
against her husband/accused

Law is well settled that an accused can be convicted on the proof of

allegation beyond any reasonable doubt. But here as discussed herein

 
Page 14 of 15

before, the statement of victim is not at all convincing and reliable to
convict the accused in the alleged section.
21. Under such circumstances, I am bound to hold that the prosecution
has categorically failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt, as
such, accused Md. Sahidul Islam is acquitted on benefit of doubt and set
him at liberty.
22. =‘ The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.
23. Send back the LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 20 day of
June, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
SB Bs be I

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6

Exhibits
Ext. 1,2,33 &4
Ext. 5
Ext. 6
Ext. 7
Ext. 8

Page 15 of 15

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- M.O. Dr. A. Kaur

- Allaluddin, complainant
i Victim

- Md. Ahijul Islam

- Hedayatulla

i= Sri Jitu M. Deka, I.O.

: Medical reports.

: Ejahar

: statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
: Sketch map

: Chargesheet.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
