1 Special (POCSO)Case No.23/2016.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE : LAKHIMPUR :
AT NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

PRESENT-  M.A.Choudhury,
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.23/2016.
Under Sections - 341/ 354(D)/34 IPC and under Section - 12 of the
POCSO Act.

PARTIES
State of Assam. ... Complainant.
-versus-

1. Sri Pulin Phukan.
2. Sri Rituraj Saikia.
3. Sri Shiva Saikia. ... Accused.

ADVOCATES APPEARED IN THE CASE:

Mr. Madhab Gogoi, Special Public Prosecutor. ... For the State of
Assam.
Mr. Arup Bora, Advocate. ... For the Accused.

Date of framing of charge. : 14.12.2016.

Dates of taking evidence. : 03.05.2017, 01.08.2017, 27.11.2017,
28.03.2018, 03.07.2018, 29.08.2018
and 14.09.2018.

Date of hearing Argument. : 07.12.2018.

Date of delivery of Judgment. : 07.12.2018.

UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution side may, in
brief, describe thus :

The informant, Sri Putul Borah on 08.10.2018
lodged an ejahar with Panigaon Police Station to the effect that the
victim X is his daughter. On 07.10.2018 at about 2.15 pm, while his

Contd...
2 Special (POCSO)Case No.23/2016.

daughter victim X along with her five other classmates was coming
from Panigaon Higher Secondary School towards their respective
houses, at that time on the way, the accused, Sri Pulin Phukan, Sri
Rituraj Saikia and Sri Shiva Saikia followed them by boarding in a car
and abused them by using slang words and also assaulted one of their
classmates. Thereafter, one Sri Dipu Borah restrained the victim X by
their car and tried to get her into their car and as at that time, some
people assembled and then the accused fled away from that place.

2. On receiving the ejahar, the Officer-in-charge of
Panigaon Police Station registered a case vide Panigaon P.S. Case
No.113/2015 under Sections 354(D)/ 354(A)(2)/ 294/ 341/ 366/ 511
IPC.

3. The police started the investigation of the case.
In course of investigation, the 1.0. visited the place of occurrence,
prepared sketch map of the place of occurrence and recorded the
statements of the witnesses u/s 161 CrPC. The I.O. arrested the
accused, Sri Pulin Phukan, Sri Rituraj Saikia and Sri Shiva Saikia and
forwarded them before the court. The 1.0. got the statement of the
victim X recorded u/s 164 CrPC in the court. The I|.0. seized one
Maximo Van bearing registration No.AS.07.C/ 4249 from the possession
of Sri Girindra Das in connection with this case. After completion of the
investigation on being found sufficient incriminating materials against
the accused, Sri Pulin Phukan, Sri Rituraj Saikia and Sri Shiva Saikia
under Sections 341/ 354(D)/ 34 IPC and under Section 12 of the POCSO
Act, the 1.0. submitted the charge-sheet against the accused, Sri Pulin
Phukan, Sri Rituraj Saikia and Sri Shiva Saikia under Sections 341/
354(D)/ 34 IPC and under Section 12 of the POCSO Act.

4. The accused, Sri Pulin Phukan, Sri Rituraj Saikia
and Sri Shiva Saikia made his appearance before the court and
necessary copies were furnished to them. After hearing the learned
advocates of both sides and perusing the case record, on being found

Contd...
3 Special (POCSO)Case No.23/2016.

sufficient incriminating materials against the accused, Sri Pulin
Phukan, Sri Rituraj Saikia and Sri Shiva Saikia under Sections 341/
354(D)/ 34 IPC and under Section 12 of the POCSO Act in the case
record, the charges under Sections 341/ 354(D)/ 34 IPC and under
Section 12 of the POCSO Act had been framed against the accused
persons. The charges were read over and explained to the accused
persons, to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. In course of trial, the prosecution side examined
10 (Ten) witnesses.

6. The statements of the accused persons have
been recorded u/s 313 CrPC, which are total denial of the occurrence.

7. The accused persons denied to adduce any
evidence in their defence.

8. Heard Argument from the learned advocates of
both sides.

9. Perused the case record and the evidence
adduced by the prosecution witnesses in the case very carefully.

10. The points for determination in this case are :

(1) Whether the all accused persons on 07.10.2015
at about 2.15 pm at Kharkati under Panigaon Police Station wrongfully
restrained the victim X while she was coming from Panigaon High
Secondary School?

(Il) Whether the all accused persons in furtherance
of their common intention had followed the victim X and made contact
to the said victim X to foster their personal interactions repeatedly
despite clear indication of disinterest by her?

Contd...
4 Special (POCSO)Case No.23/2016.

(Ill) Whether the all accused persons’ had
committed sexual harassment upon the person of the victim X, who

was a minor girl above the age of 12 years?

11. DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

PW.1 is the victim of the case. PW.1, the victim X in
her evidence stated that the accused persons are Sri Shiva Saikia, Sri
Rituraj Saikia and Sri Pulin Phukan. She also stated that the occurrence
had taken place while she was reading in class-VIIl in the year, 2015.
According to her, on the date of occurrence at about 12 pm, she was
coming to her house along with Smti Priyanka Borah, Smti Bulbuli Das
and Smti Nitumoni Das from the school by riding bicycles. When they
entered into a shop to purchase ‘Pokori’, at that time, the accused
persons were also there nearby the shop of ‘Pokori’ and they raised
noise. So, her classmates asked the accused persons as to why they
were making so noise, then the accused persons rebuked them.
According to her evidence, the accused persons came to that place by
a car. She in her evidence also stated that thereafter, she along with
her classmates came to their house and informed the matter to her
family members. She also stated that she informed the matter to her
parents and her elder brother. Then, her father, Sri Putul Borah lodged
an ejahar with the Police Station. She in her evidence also stated that
she had given her statement before the court. She proved her
statement recorded u/s 164 CrPC as Ext.1 and Ext.1(1) and Ext.1(2)
are her signatures in it. She in her cross-examination stated that she
had given her statement before the Magistrate on being tutored by the
police. She in her cross-examination further stated that the accused
persons simply rebuked them and had done nothing else.

This is the evidence adduced by the victim X. Ona
careful scrutiny of her evidence, | do not find any incriminating
material in her evidence against the accused persons for committing
any offence. The only incriminating material against the accused
persons is that they had rebuked the victim X and her classmates.
Rebuke does not fall in the category of any offence.

Contd...
5 Special (POCSO)Case No.23/2016.

PW.2, Sri Putul Borah is the father of the victim X as
well as informant of the case. He in his evidence stated that the
occurrence had taken place about 2 years back. According to his
evidence, his daughter victim X informed him that on the date of
occurrence, when the victim X was coming home from the school
along with her friends, then the accused persons were present nearby
the ‘Pokori’ shop situated at Pahumara Tiniali, and then the accused
persons rebuked the victim X and her friends by using filthy language.
He also stated that he informed the matter to the teachers and they
asked him to lodge a case against the accused persons. He proved the
ejahar as Ext.2 and Ext.2(1) is his signature in it. But, in cross-
examination, he stated that he did not state before the police that the
accused persons rebuked the victim X by using filthy language. So, the
evidence adduced by PW.2, the father of the victim X as well as
informant of the case is contrary with the statement made by him
before the police.

PW.3, Smti Priyanka Borah in her evidence stated
that on the date of occurrence, she along with the victim X and
Nitumoni were coming home from the school and on the way, they
entered into a shop near Pahumara to take some snacks, then the
accused persons were making hue and cry at that place. She in her
evidence also stated that the accused persons had scolded them and
thereafter, they left that place in fear. She in her cross-examination
stated that when the all accused persons raised hue and cry amongst
themselves, they asked the accused persons not to make such hue
and cry, and then the accused persons told them not to interfere into
their matter and asked them to depart, which made her to think that
the accused persons were scolding them. She also stated that the
accused persons had done nothing else.

On a careful scrutiny of the evidence of the PW.3,
Smti Priyanka Borah, | do not find any incriminating material in her
evidence against the accused persons regarding commission of any
offence.

Contd...
6 Special (POCSO)Case No.23/2016.

PW.4, Sri Dipu Borah in his evidence stated that at
the time of occurrence, he along with the victim X and Smti Priyanka
Borah were coming to their respective houses from the school, and on
the way, they entered into a shop to take snacks, and at that time, the
accused persons were making hue and cry. Then the accused persons
also said something to the victim X while they were at some distance.
He in his cross-examination stated that the accused persons were
making hue and cry amongst themselves and they asked the accused
persons not to make hue and cry. Then, the accused persons told them
not to interfere into their matter and asked them to depart. He also
stated that he had not heard what the accused persons told to the

victim X.

On a careful scrutiny of the evidence of the PW.4,
Sri Dipu Borah, | do not find any incriminating material in his evidence
against the accused persons regarding commission of any offence.

PW.5, Sri Kula Prasad Gogoi in his evidence stated
that at the time of occurrence, he was the General Secretary of
Panigaon Higher Secondary School. He also stated that on the date of
occurrence, one Sri Girindra Das, the Vice President of their School
informed him over telephone that three persons had committed ill-
behaviour with their school girls while they were going towards their
houses by riding bicycles. He also stated that then he along with Sri
Girindra Das, the Vice President of the Students’ Union of Panigaon
Higher Secondary School went to the place of occurrence i.e.,
Dhenudhoria. He also stated that at Dnenudhoria, one of the accused
persons named Sri Shiva Saikia was caught by the public. He in his
evidence also stated that he came to know that the accused, Sri Shiva

Saikia along with two others were involved in the crime.

This is the evidence adduced by the PW.5, Sri Kula

Prasad Gogoi. On a careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not find any

incriminating material in his evidence against the accused persons for
committing any offence.

Contd...
7 Special (POCSO)Case No.23/2016.

PW.6, Sri Bhrigu Prasad Sarmah is the Assistant
Teacher of Panigaon Higher Secondary School. According to him, at the
time of occurrence, he was in his house. He also stated that after the
occurrence, Sri Girindra Das, the then Principal of his school informed
him over mobile phone that a quarrel took place between some
persons and the victim X. He in his evidence also stated that on
receipt of the telephone call, he went to the house of the victim X
along with Sri Girindra Das, then the Principal of the school. When he
reached in the house of the victim X, he saw one person named Shiva
had been confined by the village people. He also stated that thereafter
the police from Panigaon Police Station reached to the house of the
victim X, and the accused, Shiva had been handed over to the police.
He in his evidence also stated that thereafter, he came to know from
the victim X that a quarrel had taken place between the victim X and
the accused person. He also stated that he had not seen the

occurrence.

This is the evidence adduced by the PW.6, Sri
Bhrigu Prasad Sarmah. On a careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not
find any incriminating material in his evidence against the accused
persons for committing any offence.

PW.7, Sri Prasanta Barik, who is the teacher of
Panigaon Higher Secondary School, in his evidence stated that the
victim X was a student of their school and in this year, she had
appeared in the H.S.L.C. Examination. He also stated that on the date
of occurrence, the then Principal, Lt. Girindra Das of Panigaon Higher
Secondary School informed me over mobile phone to meet with him to
go to somewhere. Then, he went to the house of the then Principal,
Girindra Das and thereafter Girindra Das had boarded him in the car of
Girindra Das and he took him in a house at Dhenudhoria. In the house
at Dhenudhoria, he found some people had been gathered and the
accused, Sri Shiva Saikia had been confined by the people. Then, he
Contd...
8 Special (POCSO)Case No.23/2016.

came to know from the students of his school that a quarrel had taken
place between the victim X and the accused, Sri Shiva Saikia.
Thereafter, he along with Girindra Das and other persons came to the
Panigaon Police Station and the police had recorded his statement.

This is the evidence adduced by the PW.7, Sri
Prasanta Barik. On a careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not find any
incriminating material in his evidence against the accused persons for

committing any offence.

PW.8, Smti Nitumoni Das in her and PW.9, Sri Rubul
Rajkhowa in their evidence did not implicate the accused persons
regarding commission of any offence. They in their evidence stated
that they did not know regarding the occurrence of this case.

PW.10, SI Utpal Sarmah is the Investigating Officer
of the case. As there is no material in his evidence, who had
investigated the case and submitted the charge-sheet against the all
accused persons. There is no material in the evidence adduced by the
Investigating Officer, which may lead to hold the guilty of the accused

persons.

12. Because of what have been discussed and
pointed out here-in-above, it is appeared that the prosecution side has
totally failed to prove the charges under Sections 341/ 354(D)/ 34 IPC
and under Section 12 of the POCSO Act brought against the accused,
Sri Pulin Phukan, Sri Rituraj Saikia and Sri Shiva Saikia, and the
accused persons deserve to be acquitted.

13. |, therefore, hold the accused, Sri Pulin Phukan,

Sri Rituraj Saikia and Sri Shiva Saikia not guilty and acquit them from

the charges under Sections 341/ 354(D)/ 34 IPC and under Section 12

of the POCSO Act. The accused persons are set at their liberty
forthwith.

Contd...
9 Special (POCSO)Case No.23/2016.

14. The bail bonds of the accused persons are
cancelled and their sureties are discharged.

15. Given under my hand and seal of this court on
this the 7 day of December, 2018.

(M. A. Choudhury )
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Dictated & corrected by me -

( M.A.Choudhury )
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by-
Sri Satyabrata Kshattry, Stenographer.

APPENDIX

1. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE :

PW.1 - Victim X.

PW.2 - Sri Putul Borah, the informant of the case.
PW.3 - Smti Priyanka Borah.

PW.4 - Sri Dipu Borah.

PW.5 - Sri Kula Prasad Gogoi.

PW.6 - Sri Bhrigu Prasad Sarmah.

PW.7 - Dr. Prasanta Barik, the M.O. of the case.
PW.8 - Smti Nitumoni Das.

PW.9 - Sri Rubul Rajkhowa.

PW.10 - SI Utpal Sarmah, the I.O. of the case.

2. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE :
Nil.

Contd...
10 Special (POCSO)Case No.23/2016.

3. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE IN THE CASE
Ext.1 - Statement of the victim X recorded u/s 164 CrPC.
Ext.2 - Ejahar.

Ext.3 - Charge sheet.

4. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE IN THE CASE :
Nil

( M. A. Choudhury )
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
