 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 69 (M) of 2017

U/s 6 of POCSO Act

The State Of ASSAM —__aacaeesacseeseeeeeesenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Anil Karmakar @ Dulal Karmakar
S/o- Lt. Sonia Karmakar
R/o- No.1 Tokowpathar
P.S- Pengaree
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM a. hee eee eee eeeeeeee eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor .......... For the State
Shreeram Prasad,
Advocate  —__hinecacecueeevevenees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 18/01/2019

Date of Judgment: 18/01/2019

Jj} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. It is alleged that on 22/11/2017 at about 1 pm, the
accused had committed rape upon a 8 years old girl and at
about 4 pm, the victim girl informed her mother about the said
fact. Thereafter, on 24/11/2017, a village meeting was held on
that issue, but finally on 25/11/2017, the ejahar was lodged by
the mother of the victim girl, alleging the aforesaid facts.

2. During the period of investigation, the victim girl was
subjected to medical examination. The Doctor found the
following injuries upon the dead body of the deceased:-

"Menstrual history- not attained menarche. General
configuration and development - Average. Mental state -
Normal. Teeth- 19. Abdomen, breasts, areola and nipples - no
injury. Scalp hair present. Pubic and axillary hair- not see.
Genitals - No injury seen. Hymen - present. Vagina admits one
finger. Uterus - Not palpable. No vaginal bleeding/discharge
present at the time of examination. No other injury on any
other body parts. Radiological examination was done and as
per report, age is between 7 to 10 years. Ultrasonography
done and as per report, it found normal study. No spermatozoa
present in the supplied vaginal smear."
3. The Doctor opined that there was no recent signs of
sexual intercourse. No external injury on genitals and other

body parts were found.

4. The victim girl gave a statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. She has
stated before the Magistrate that the accused Anil Karmakar
had called her to his house on the pretext of giving her some
vegetables. When the victim girl entered into the kitchen of
the house of the accused, the accused gagged her mouth with
hands and removed her panty and laid her on the ground and
inserted his penis into her vagina. She has further stated that
though she felt pain, but she could not shout as because her
mouth was gagged by the accused. Thereafter, the accused
left her go with a threatening that if she has disclosed the
matter to anyone else, she would be killed. The victim girl has
stated before the Magistrate that she nonetheless informed
her aunt Bobita Gorh about the said occurrence.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

5. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim girl.

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

6. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as ten witnesses,
out of which two are non official witnesses. The Police Officer
Sanjib Saikia and Dr. Niharika Borah, who examined the victim
girl during the period of investigation are the official
witnesses. The defence plea is total denial. | have carefully
gone through the prosecution evidences.
7. Considering the nature of the case, | shall take up the
evidence of the victim girl. She has supported the prosecution

case in her evidence.

8. Now, | shall take up the evidence of the mother of the
victim girl. She has stated in her evidence that her daughter
was born on 22/07/2009 and to that effect, a birth certificate
has been produced. The mother of the victim girl has stated
that her sister in law Bobita Gorh had told her that her
daughter was called by the accused to his house on the
pretext of giving vegetables and when she had entered into
his house, she was forcibly laid on the ground and after that
the accused committed rape upon her, after removing her
clothes. The mother of the victim girl has stated that she
asked her daughter about the said matter and her daughter
reportedly admitted those things. The mother of the victim girl
has stated that she had examined the vagina of her daughter
and found swelling there. The mother of the victim girl had
informed the local mahila samity also.

9. The witness Bobita Gorh is the aunt of the victim girl.
She has stated in her evidence that one day at about 9 am,
the victim girl had come to his house, who wanted to urine,
but she was unable to pass urine. She has stated in her
evidence that the victim girl told her that the accused called
her to his house for giving some vegetables and then when
she had entered into the house of the accused, the accused
had committed rape upon her. She has stated in her evidence
that she had examined her vagina and saw that there was
blood stained.

10. The witness Sima Chetry has stated in her evidence
that she heard from the mother of the victim girl that her
daughter was raped by the accused on 22/11/2017. She has
stated in her evidence that she had gone to the house of the
victim girl, examined her private parts and noticed injury

marks in her vagina.

11. The witness Anita Upadhaya had also heard from the
mother of the victim girl that the accused had committed rape
upon the victim girl. She has stated in her evidence that she
along with some of Mahila Samity members confronted the
accused. They brought the accused with them and produced
him before the village Gaonburha. She has stated in her
evidence that she had also examined the private parts of the
victim girl and noticed small injury mark on the vagina of the
victim girl.

12. The witness Prem Newar has_ stated that on
24/11/2017, there was a meeting in the village and at the end
of the meeting, he was informed by the mother of the victim
that on 22/11/2017, the accused had committed rape upon
her daughter. He has stated that he along with the witness
Sima Chetry, Anita Upadhaya and some other members of
Local Mahila Samity had gone to the house of the accused and
confronted him with the allegation. He has stated that the
accused denied his involvement in the said incident and then
he had informed police.

13. The witness Mainu Gorh also spoke like Sima Chetry
and Anita Upadhaya. She has stated in her evidence that she
had also seen some reddish mark on the vagina of the victim
girl.

14. The witness Bhim Chetry has stated that one day the
mother of the victim girl had come to him and informed him
that the accused had committed rape upon her daughter. He
has stated that he asked the accused about his involvement in
the said incident, but the accused reportedly denied his role in
the said act. Bhim Chetry has stated in his evidence that the
accused refused to attend the village meeting, which was held
on the aforesaid issue, aS because the accused was afraid that
he would be beaten by the villagers in the said meeting. He
has stated that it was the accused, who had requested him to
call police and also requested him to hand him over to police.

15. Here in this case, there is no doubt that the medical
evidence failed to prove the prosecution case against the
accused. Here the entire prosecution case is based on the
evidence of the victim girl. She is a child below 12 years of
age.

16. In State of U.P. v. Ashok Dixit [2000 (3) SCC 70]. it
has been observed in paragraph 9:

“Law is well settled that evidence of a child witness must be
evaluated carefully as a child may be swayed by what others
tell him and as an easy prey to tutoring. Wisdom requires that
evidence of a child witness must find adequate corroboration
before it is relied on (see Panchhi v. State of U.P). However it
is a question of fact in each case, and there is no universal
rule that the evidence of a child witness, even if it cannot be
dislodged on the test of facts and probabilities of a particular
case can never be sufficient for convicting an accused without
corroboration.

17. The Supreme Court in State of M.P. v. Ramesh and
Anr., (2011) 4 SCC 786) has examined the law relating to
deposition by Child Witnesses. While examining the law on the
aspect the Court has observed that the deposition of a child
witness may require corroboration, but in case his deposition
inspires the confidence of the Court and there is no
embellishment or improvement therein, the Court may rely
upon his evidence. The evidence of a child witness must be
evaluated more carefully with greater circumspection because
he is susceptible to tutoring. Only in case there is evidence on
record to show that a child has been tutored, the Court can
reject his statement partly or fully. However, an inference as to
whether the child has been tutored or not, can be drawn from
the contents of his deposition.

18. In  Panchhi & Ors vs. State of U.P : (1998) 7 SCC
177, the Supreme Court has held --

The evidence of child is required to be evaluated carefully
because he is an easy prey to tutoring. Therefore, always the
court looks for adequate corroboration from other evidence to
his testimony.

19. Coming back to the case in hand, here the medical
evidence has totally nullifies the ocular evidence. At this
stage, | have reasons to hold that the evidence of the victim
girl fails to inspire confidence. Her evidence cannot be
accepted without any corroboration and it must be stated that
there are no corroboration of her evidence. Under the
circumstances, | hereby hold that the prosecution has failed to
prove the offence against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubts.

ORDER

20. In the result, the accused Sri Anil Karmakar @ Dulal
Karmakar is found not guilty and accordingly the accused is
acquitted from this case. Presently, the accused is in judicial
custody, so he be set at liberty forthwith.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
18th day of January, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge

Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1. PW1 - Smti Bharoti Gorh

2. PW2 - Smti Junali Gorh

3. PW3 - Dr. Niharika Borah

4. PW4 - Smti Sima Chetry

5. PW5 - Smti Anita Upadhaya

6. PW6 - Sri Prem Newar
7. PW7 -

8. PW8 -

9. PW9 -

10.PW10 -

Smti Bobita Gorh
Smti Mainu Gorh
Sri Bhim Chetry

Sri Sanjib Saikia, S.|

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. M.Ext.1-
2. Ext. 2-
3. Ext. 3-
4. Ext. 4 -
5. Ext. 5-
6. Ext. 6 -
7. Mz. Ext. 2-

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

School certificate

Medical report

Extract copy of the G.D.E
Ejahar

Sketch map

Charge sheet

Copy of the statement.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
