IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 07 of 2017

(Arising out of Baghbor P.S. Case No.208/2016)
U/S 4 of POCSO Act.

PRESENT : Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi

Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:- 06.01.2018

State of Assam

-Vs-
Asuruddin Khan............. Accused.
Date of Recording Evidence on :— 20.02.2018, 10.04.2018, 08.09.2017,
14.11.2018,05.03.2018, 27.03.2018
Date of Hearing Argument on :— 20.04.2019

Date of Delivering the Judgment on :— 30.04.2019

Appearance :

Advocate for the State------------------ Mrs. P. Das, Ld. Addl. P.P.
Advocate for the Accused-------------- Mr. N. Hussain, Ld Advocates.
JUDGMENT
1. The brief fact of the prosecution case, is that on 16.08.2016, one Intaz Ali lodged an FIR in

Mondia out post alleging inter-alia that accused No.1 named in the FIR took away his grand

daughter (X), aged about 14 years on the promise of marriage. On 14.08.2016 at about 10 A.M.

accused No.2 named in the FIR also rendered assistance to accused No.1 by calling his grand

daughter to her house and allowing accused No.1 to stay in her house with his grand daughter,

who committed sexual intercourse with her. But on 15.08.2016 his grand daughter somehow fled

away from the house of accused No.2. Hence the case.
2. Following the information as above, Mondia out post entered the same in the general diary
vide G.D.E. No.284 dated 16.08.2016 and forwarded the same to Baghbor police station for
registering a case. Accordingly, Baghbor police station registered a case being Baghbor PS Case
No.208/16 u/s 342/34 IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted S/I Anil Kalita to investigate
the case.
3. During the course of investigation, police visited the place of occurrence, drew sketch
map, recorded the statement of the witnesses, forwarded the victim girl to court for recording her
statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C., sent the victim girl for medical examination and on conclusion of
investigation I/O finally laid the charge sheet against accused Asuruddin Khan and Saheda Khatun
showing Saheda Khatun as absconder u/s 342/34 IPC and Section 4/17 of POCSO Act with a view
to stand trial.
4. During the course of time, summons were issued to the accused persons to face trial.
However, when presence of accused Saheda Khatun could not be secured in spite of issuance of
warrant, proclamation and attachment finally the case against accused Saheda Khatun was kept
filed on 08.09.2017 after examination of the executing officer. But accused Asuruddin appeared in
court. Accordingly, after due compliance of section 207 Cr.P.C. the then Hon'ble Special Judge vide
order dated 06.01.2018 having found a primafacie case framed charge u/s 4 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 against accused Asuruddin Khan. The particulars of the
offence on being read over and explained accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.
5. During the course of trial, prosecution examined 6 witnesses in order to substantiate its
case including the medical officer, the alleged victim and investigating officer.
6. On conclusion of investigation, accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. However, accused
denied the prosecution evidence as false and misleading and expressed his intention to adduce
defence evidence. Consequently, accused adduced evidence of 2 DWs. Namely-Iman Ali as DW-1
and Pashan Ali as DW-2.
7. Now point for determination _;-

1. Whether on 14.08.2016 at about 10 A.M. accused committed penetrative sexual

offence against the victim girl (X) aged about 14 years and made her to so so as
alleged?
8. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-

The learned counsel appearing for the state vehemently submitted that in this case, as

many as 6 witnesses are examined including the victim girl who in her evidence categorically
implicated the accused Asuruddin of committing sexual intercourse on her on the fateful night with
the active assistance rendered by one Saheda Khatun by forcefully confining her in her house. The
said evidence was also supported by other prosecution witnesses namely-PW-5 who is her father.
It is contended that in the offence of this nature, it is very difficult to find eye witnesses. Therefore,
court has to believe the version of the victim if the version of the victim inspires confidence in the
mind of the court. In the instant case, the learned counsel for the state submits that the evidence of
the victim is credible and trustworthy, so, reliance can be placed on her evidence for sustaining
conviction.
9. On the other hand, the learned counsel Mr. Norain Hussain appearing on behalf of
accused vehemently contended that the entire prosecution story is false and concocted. There is
no credibility in the prosecution case as none of the prosecution witnesses supported the version of
the alleged victim. It is contended that even the evidence of the alleged victim girl does not inspire
confidence as in her cross examination she even could not say from where her birth certificate was
obtained. Moreover, she also stated that she read up to class V but put her thumb impression in the
statement before Magistrate. It is also stated that the prosecution failed to examine witness
Rashida Khatun with whom the alleged victim revealed her story on the next day of the alleged
incident. Prosecution also failed to examine the informant. The medical officer also found no recent
sign of sexual intercourse. Also found no spermatozoa in the vaginal swab on microscopic
examination. According to the learned defence counsel, PW-2 Abul Hussain and PW-3 Sahera
Khatun also expressed their total ignorance about the alleged incident. Therefore, the learned
defence counsel vehemently contended that the prosecution case is nothing but a cooked up story
filed only to take revenge of existing quarrel between the accused and informant. As such, the
learned counsel submits that it is a fit case to record judgment of acquittal.

10. Having heard the rival contention of the learned lawyers, this court has carefully perused
the evidence of all the 6 prosecution witnesses as well as 2 defence witnesses for arriving at a just
decision in the case.

11. Now, from the evidence of the victim girl (X) PW-4 it transpires that on the day of incident
while she was returning from school Sahida Begum called her to her house and asked her to stay
in the house. But at night she called Asuruddin and put them in a separate room to stay with
Asuruddin as a result, accused Asuruddin committed forceful sexual intercourse with her though
she tried to came out of the room but accused threatened her to kill. On the next day she came
home weeping and narrated her ordeal to one Rashida Begum, daughter of her paternal aunt. Then
Rashida told the incident to her grand father who filed the case. Doctor examined her. Police sent
her to record her statement before Magistrate and also recorded her statement by police. In her
cross examination she stated that the house of Sahida is situated at a distance of 1 km from the
house of her grant father. The case was lodged by hre grand father after 4 days. She did not met
Asuruddin prior to the incident and she never visited the house of accused earlier. However, she
knows Sahida. She also stated that incident occurred at about 7 pm. Though she read in class V
but she put her thumb impression before Magistrate.

12. On perusal of her statement recorded by Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. (Ext.4) it is seen that
the victim girl categorically stated that on the day of incident Sahida called her to her house and
she stayed there on the night. She go for sleep after dinner but Sahida got her up from her sleep
and told her that Asuruddin came and put her with Asuruddin with another room at night. Asuruddin
committed sexual intercourse with her on the promise of marriage. On the next day morning
Asuruddin leave the house. She also returned to her house. After one day she called Asuruddin
over phone but he cut the phone saying that he do not know her. She also stated that she knows
Asuruddin about one year back. Now, after having committed sexual intercourse with her he
pretend that he do not know her.

13. On perusal of the statement of the victim girl recorded by police u/s 161 Cr.P.C. it is also
seen that the victim girl stated before the I/O that accused had committed sexual intercourse with
her in the house of Sahida Khatun on the promise of marriage. It is also stated that she knows the

accused earlier but after committing the offence of sexual intercourse with her accused left her.
When she telephoned him he disconnect the telephone saying that he do not know her. It is also
stated that accused had committed such sexual intercourse 2/3 times earlier.

14. In this regard, this court beg to refer a judgment of the Division Bench of the Hon'ble Apex
Court delivered in Criminal Appeal No.629 of 19 arising out of SLP (Cri No.618/19)
(Anurag Soni Vs- State of Chhattisgarh) wherein it was held -

” If it is established and proved that from the inception the
accused who give the promise to the prosecutrix to marry, did not have
any intention to marry and the prosecutrix gave the consent for sexual
intercourse on such an assurance by the accused that he would marry
her, such a consent can be said to be a consent obtained on a
misconception of fact as per section 90 of the IPC and, in such a case,
such a consent would not excuse the offender and such an offender
can be said to have committed the rape as defined u/s 375 of the IPC
and can be convicted for the offence u/s 376 of the IPC.”

15. Now, on careful examination of the evidence of the victim girl with that of her statement
before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and statement before police u/s 161 Cr.P.C. (Ext.4) it appears
that the victim girl consistently narrated the fact that accused Asuruddin had sexual intercourse with
her on the promise of marriage for 2/3 times but after committing the offence he pretends that he do
not know her when she called him over phone. On conjoint reading of all the three version of the
victim girl, it appears that except some minor contradiction/ discrepancies in her evidence in court
there is no major contradiction regarding commission of penetrating sexual assault on her by
accused Asuruddin. In her statement before Magistrate she categorically stated that apart from
sexual intercourse on the day of incident accused had also physical intercourse with her on 2/3
occasion prior thereto which fact has not been stated by her in her evidence before court.
Moreover, the victim girl also stated before police that she knows the accused earlier and in her
statement before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she also stated that she knows the accused since one
year back but in her evidence in court she stated that she do not know the accused earlier.

Nevertheless, in her statement before police and before Magistrate she consistently stated that
accused had physical intercourse with her on the promise of marriage which fact also clearly
reiterated by her in her evidence in court. Therefore, though there is little contradiction in her
evidence with that of her statement before police u/s 161 Cr.P.C. But as regards the physical
intercourse with her by accused there is consistency in her evidence. As such, the evidence of the
victim girl inspires confidence in the mind of the court regarding the alleged incident. Admittedly, the
victim girl stated her age before Magistrate as 14 years which fact has also been stated in the FIR
(Ext.2). Though prosecution did not prove the birth certificate of the victim girl in court but the
evidence of doctor (PW-1) reveals that after X-Ray investigation the doctor found her age above 14
years and below 16 years on the day of examination. Therefore, the medical evidence of doctor
cannot be thrown out as unworthy of credit regarding her age though prosecution did not prove her
birth certificate. However, there is near consistency regarding her age with the statement of the
victim girl and the medical examination report of doctor (PW-1).

16. In this regard, though the learned defence counsel vehemently contended that prosecution
story is nothing but a concocted and cooked up story, but having assessed the evidence of the
victim girl, this court do not found force in the contention of the learned defence counsel. Though
accused by adducing two DW's tried to disprove the version of the victim girl but miserably failed to
counter the story of the victim girl as both the DW's failed to touch upon core issue of accused
committing penetrating sexual intercourse with the victim but deposed only on irrelevant facts
making their evidence totally unworthy of credit.

17. The learned defence counsel further contended that on examination of the victim girl the
doctor did not find any recent sign of sexual intercourse on the victim. But this does not made the
prosecution case unbelievable as the victim girl was examined by doctor after 3 /4 days of the
incident. Therefore, naturally it is difficult to get any evidence of recent sexual intercourse with the
victim girl, as by this time the victim girl wash her body as well as her clothes before going to
doctor. Therefore, this is not a strong ground to disbelieve the alleged sexual intercourse by
accused with the victim girl.

18. Moreover, on close scrutiny of the evidence of doctor (PW-1) it is seen that on examination

doctor found her hymen tear and vagina admits one finger. Therefore, the state of hymen of the
victim offers most significant clue regarding the sexual intercourse. It is the admitted position of law
that the victim of sexual offence is not an accomplice her evidence cannot be equated with the
evidence of accomplice. Though PW-2 and PW-3 have expressed their ignorance about the
incident but the evidence of PW-5 corroborated the evidence of PW-4 the victim girl to the extent
that on the promise of marriage accused committed sexual intercourse with her. Non examination
of the informant as contended by the learned defence counsel also does not discredit the
prosecution case, because as clearly deposed by PW-5 his father (informant) has been suffering
from paralysis for which he could not come to court to depose evidence. In the instant case, the
victim is a minor girl of tender age and accused subjected her sexual intercourse on the promise of
marriage. She being a minor and her mind being vulnerable easily subject to influence, she readily
believe the accused that he will marry her as promised. So, she consented sexual intercourse with
accused onthe hope of marriage and false promise, duress and helpless condition, her mind and
body being vulnerable to easy pray of the culprit/accused.
19. In this context, this court also beg to refer a recently delivered Division bench judgment of
Hon'ble Delhi High Court delivered in Criminal Appeal No.1241/18 (Jitendra Sarma)...appellant) Vs-
State of (N.C.T. of Delhi)....respondent wherein the Hon'ble Delhi High Court dealt with the question
whether conviction of an accused can be based on the sole testimony of the victim in cases of
sexual assault/rape. In the said judgment the Delhi High Court also discussed judgments of the
Hon'ble Apex Court wherein it has been held that the sole testimony of the prosecutrix, if found
reliable, can be sold ground for convicting the accused, and that the credit worthy testimony of the
victim in cases of such nature deserve acceptance.
The Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan Vs-Omprakash reported in
(2002) 5 SCC 745 dealing with a similar question in the case of a child rape while upholding
conviction of the appellant therein and reversing the decision of the High Court in that behalf, relied
upon earlier decision and made the following observations:
“(13). The conviction for the offence u/s 376 IPC can be based
on the sole testimony of a rape victim is a well settle proposition. In

State of Punjab Vs- Gurmit Singh (1996) 2 SCC 284 referring to State
of Maharastra Vs-Chandraprakash Kewalchand Jain (1990) SCC 550
this court held that it must not be overlooked that a woman or a girl
subject to sexual assault is not an accomplice to the crime but a victim
of another person's lust and it is improper to test her evidence with a
certain amount of suspicion, treating her as if she were an accomplice.
It has also been observed in the said decision by Dr. Justice A.S.
Anand as his Lordship then was speaking for the court that the inherent
basefulness of femals and the tendency to conceal outrage of sexual
aggression are factors which the court should not overlooked. The
testimony of the victim in such cases is vital and unless there are
compelling reasons which necessitated looking for corroboration of her
statement the court should find no difficulty to act on the testimony of a
victim of sexual assault alone to conviction an accused where her
testimony inspires confident and he is found to be reliable seeking
corroboration of her statement before relying upon the same, as a rule,
in such cases amounts to adding injury.

(14). In State of H.P. Vs- Gianchand (2001) 6 SCC justice
Lahoti speaking for the bench observed that the court has first to assess
the trustworthy intention of the evidence adduced available on record. If
the court finds the evidence adduced worthy of being relied on, then the
testimony has to be accepted and acted on though there may be other
witnesses available who could have been examined but were not
examined.

The Hon'ble Apex Court again coming to the medical evidence
adduced stated that the medical opinion contained in the MLC report
dated 17.01.2013 (Ext.PW-9/B) qua the victim V, a finding to the effect
that no such external injury mark present, Hymen is ruptured, no

conclusive FSL result has been obtained.
(25). The position of law on the question whether absence of
injuries found on the person of the prosecutrix, in case of rape, would
be a finding of acquittal, is well settled. Dealing with this issue in a case
of a children rape, a coordinate bench of this court in Lokesh Mishra
Vs- State of NCT Delhi, in Criminal Appeal No.768/2010, decided on
12.03.2014 relying on earlier decision of the Apex Court, while
upholding the conviction u/s 376 IPC, made the following
observations......

*38”......In the case of Ranjit Hazarika Vs- State of Assam
reported in (1998) 8 SCC 635 the opinion of the doctor was that no
rape appeared to have committed because of the absence of rupture of
hymen and injuries on the private part of the prosecutrix, the Apex
Court took a view that the medical opinion cannot throw overboard an
otherwise cogent and trustworthy evidence of the prosecutrix.

(39). The Apex Court in B.C. Deva Vs- State of Karnataka in
(2012) SCC 122 in spite of the fact that no injuries were found on the
person of the prosecutrix, yet finding her version to be reliable and
trustworth,.tThe Apex Court uphold the conviction of the accused. The
court observed thus:-

“18”. the plea that no mark on rupture were found either on the
person of the accused or on the person of the prosecutrix does not
lead to any interference that the accused has not committed forcible
sexual intercourse on the prosecutrix, though the report of the
Gynecologist pertaining to the medical examination of the prosecutrix
does not disclose any evidence of sexual intercourse yet even in the
absence of any corroboration of medical evidence the oral testimony of
the prosecutrix which is found to be cogent, reliable, convincing and

trustworthy is to be accepted."
10

20. Though the birth certificate of the victim is the conclusive piece of evidence regarding the
age of the girl but in the absence of that, court is to base it's conclusion on the evidence of other
evidence such as determination of age by ossification test. Here in the instant case, the doctor
found the age of the victim girl above 14 and below 16 years so margin of error in age by
radiological test is 2 years. Therefore, even this court believe the evidence of the victim girl and the
evidence of doctor regarding her age the victim girl is still found to be below 18 years on the date of
commission of the offence.

21. In the instant case, the victim girl being a minor, she become easy pray on the false
promise of marriage by accused. In the backdrop from where the victim hails parents did not take
much care of the girl who easily intermix with boys and move freely with each other's house and
parents did not suspect at initial stage but when the offence having been committed and came to
light, they become conscious about the offence and proceed to take action in accordance with law.
Therefore, the delay in lodging the FIR by the grand father of the victim girl is not unusual and it
does not make the prosecution case unworthy of credit to be discarded. If the court do not believe
the evidence of the victim and tend to discard evidence merely on the ground of little contradiction
in her evidence, citing lack of corroboration and technicalities of delay in lodging the FIR, the
credibility of the victim will be undermined as the sexual offences usually take place behind close
door, where the victim is often the only witness. Disbelieving the evidence of victim emboldens
abusers and dissuades women from taking legitimate recourse to law making it difficult task to get
justice by weak and vulnerable.

22. Under such backdrop, this court do not find any such reason to discard or disbelieve the
prosecution evidence as untrue and unworthy of credit.

23. In view of the aforesaid discussion and reason the accused is found guilty and convict him
for the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

24. | have considered the provision of section 360 Cr.P.C. but after due consideration of the
attending facts and circumstances of the case and the age of the accused the nature of the offence

committed, this court is not inclined to extend the benefit of Probation of Offenders Act in favour of
11

accused.
25. However, considering the nature and gravity of the offence proved, case is fixed for
sentence hearing on 03.05.2019.

26. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 30th day of April 2019.

Sd/-

(Sri C. B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta.

SENTENCE HEARING

25. | have heard the accused person on the point of sentence as provided u/s 235(2) Cr.P.C. It
is submitted that accused person hails from very poor strata of society and survives by doing cycle
machenic. He is very young 30 years old and married. He was having his old parents to maintain.
So, in the event he is put behind bar his innocent family members would suffer a lot. Hence,
accused pleaded clemency.

26. Heaving considered the extenuating and mitigating circumstances of the case and the
punishment prescribed in section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 which shall be imprisonment of either
description for a term which shall not be less then 7 (seven) years but which may extend to
imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. Therefore, considering the nature and gravity
of the offence proved and the punishment prescribed by law, accused is convicted and sentenced
u/s 4 of POCSO Act to under go Rigorous imprisonment for a term of 10 years (ten years) and fine
of Rs.2000/- I/d simple imprisonment for one year.

27. The period of detention, if any, undergone by accused during the course of investigation,
enquiry or trial shall be set off against the term of imprisonment as provided u/s 428 Cr.P.C.

28. Let a copy of the judgment be furnished to accused person free of cost as provided in
section 363 Cr.P.C.

29. Let copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District Magistrate, Barpeta as

provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.
12

30. Let case record be consigned to record room after completing the formalities.

31. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 3rd day of May, 2019 at Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me

Sd/- Sd/-
(Sri C. B. Gogoi) (Sri C. B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
13

APPENDIX
1. The prosecution has examined the following 6 nos. of witnesses :-
PW-1 = is Dr. Anima Boro, the M/O.
PW-2 = is Abul Hussain.
PW-3 = is Mst. Sahara Khatun.
PW-4 = is victim (X).
PW-5 = is Kabir Ali @ Kabir Uddin.

PW-6 = is Anikanta Ray, the I/O.

2. The prosecution has exhibited following document :-

Ext.1 = is the medical examination report.

Ext.= 1(1) = is the signatures of doctor.

Ext.2 = is the FIR.

Ext.2(1)= is the signatures of Jayanta Kr. Das, In-charge Mondia out post.
Ext.3 = is the sketch map.

Ext.3(1) = is the signature of I/O.

Ext.4 = is the 164 Cr.P.C. statement of victim

Ext.4(1)= is the signature of victim.

Ext.5 = is the charge sheet.

Ext.5(1)= is the signature of I/O.

3. The defence has examined two DW 's:-
DW-1 = Iman Ali.

DW-2 = Pashan Ali.

4. Exhibit= Nil. Sd/-

(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
