Page 1 of 8

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

27 OF 2015
(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 2007 of
2015)

Mridul Kumar Kalita, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Gobinda Sarkar,
Son of Sri Sajal Sarkar,
Resident of Missamari,
Police Station — Missamari,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
15/10/2015.
09/12/2015 & 19/01/2016
27/01/2016.
27/01/2016.
30/01/2016.

Mr. Hari Prasad Sedai
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. S. Das and Mr. A. Das, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. On 03-08-2015, the Officer-In-charge of Missamari Police Station

received an FIR (First Information Report) from one girl, who is herein after

referred to as “the Victim”, wherein it was alleged, inter alia, that on 02-08-

2015 at about 4.00 p.m. the accused Sri Gobinda Sarkar, by promising the

victim that he will marry her, took her along with him on a bicycle. However,

after going a little distance the accused, instead of taking her to his home took

her to somewhere else by threatening her with a dagger. It is also alleged that

in that place they stayed one night and the accused forcibly committed sexual

 
Page 2 of 8

intercourse with her and on the next day she was left by the accused near her

house.

2. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of
Missamari Police Station registered Missamari P.S. Case No. 56/15 u/s
120B)/406/376 of IPC, and entrusted Sri Jyotish Gayary, Sub-Inspector of
Police to investigate the case. After completion of the investigation formal
charge sheet was laid U/s 406 of IPC r/w section 6 of the POCSO Act against
the accused Gobinda Sarkar in the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur
and the case was transferred to the Court of Smt. J. Borah, learned Judicial
Magistrate, 1% class, Tezpur for disposal. On 29-08-2015 the G.R. Case
No.2007/15 was sent to this Court as per Govt. Notification No. JDJ
220/2013/43 dated 12-07-2013, by Smt. J. Borah, learned 1% class Judicial
Magistrate, Soniptur, Tezpur as the case is registered under the provisions of
POCSO Act, and as such the same is required to tried by Special POCSO Court.
The accused was in judicial custody at the time of transferring this case to this

Court.

3. After receipt of the case record and after hearing the accused as well as
the learned Addl. Public Prosecutor and after going through the materials on
record, charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012, was framed against the accused
Gobinda Sarkar. The charge was read over and explained to the accused and
on being asked, he refused to plead guilty and claimed to be tried. During trial,
prosecution side examined 4 (four) witnesses. The accused was examined u/s
313 Cr.P.C. during which he denied the truthfulness of the testimony of the
prosecution witnesses and pleaded innocence. The accused declined to adduce

any evidence in defence.
4. The point to be determined in this case is as follows:-

"Whether the accused on, 02/08/2015, at about 4.00 p.m., at
Lohadang under Missamari police Station, committed penetrative
sexual assault on “the Victim” (16 years of age) and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 4 of the Protection
of Child from Sexual Offences Act?

 
Page 3 of 8

5. I have gone through the entire materials on record, including the
oral testimonies of the witnesses and the statement of the accused recorded
under section 313 Cr.P.C, very carefully as well as heard argument advanced by

Ld. Public Prosecutor and learned Defence counsel, at length.

6. Let me, at the very beginning scrutinise the evidence adduced

by the prosecution witnesses.

7. P.W-1 Dr. Nibedita Baruah, has deposed that on 04-08-2015 she
was working as Sr. Medical & Health Officer in the Kanaklata Civil Hospital,
Tezpur and on that day she was on emergency duty and at about 3 p.m. inthe
labour room complex of KCH, she examined Smt. Pirsila Topno, D/O Nowas
Topno of after getting police requisition, on being escorted and identified by
Woman police constable Prava Narzary, in reference to Missamari PS case No.
56/15 u/s 120(B)/406/376 of IPC. She was examined in presence of staff nurse

on duty after taking consent.

History — staying together with one boy named Gobinda two days back
and had sexual intercourse with him three times at a place few kms away from

her home.
On examination she found the following:

Height — 149 cm., Weight — 37 Kg, Teeth — 8/8, 7/8. Breast well
developed, no injury. Axillary hair present. Pubic hair present not matted.
Vulva, vagina healthy. Hymen old tear present. No bleeding from hymen and it
admits one finger easily. Uterus is in normal size. Built of the patient was

average.

Vaginal smear taken, - no spermatozoa seen.

X-ray report done by Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist with plates
submitted. Age of the person below 18 years.

External injury — not seen.

Under clothing blood stained. She is menstruating today.

 
Page 4 of 8

OPINION:

Age of the lady is below 18 years. She is not pregnant at this
stage. There is no sign of recent sexual intercourse and no sign
of violence on the body or her private parts.

She has exhibited the medical report as Ext. 1 and Ext. 1(1) is her
Signature. Ext. 2 is the advice slip and Ext. 2(1) is her signature. Ext. 3 is the X-
ray report along with plates and Ext. 3(1) is the signature of Dr. P.K. Barman,
Radiologist, which is known to her. Ext. 4 is the laboratory report.

8. PW 2, the victim of this case, has stated that she knew accused Gobinda
Sarkar. The incident occurred in the last year during the cultivation season,
about three months back. On the day of the incident she was at her home. In
the evening the accused Gobinda came to our house and asked her to elope
with him. Earlier he also uses to come to her house. The accused told her that
he will marry her. Thereafter, she eloped with the accused to a newly
constructed house and stayed there with the accused for that night and the
accused committed bad acts with her. She has also stated that she has not
objected it. On the next day, her father found her there with the accused.
Lateron, she lodged Ejahar before Missamari Police Station. The ejahar was
written as per her instruction. Ext. 5 is the ejahar and Ext. 5 (1) is her
signature. She was medically examined and brought to the Court for recording
her statement. Ext. 6 is her statement and Ext. 6(1) to 6(4) are her signatures.
During cross-examination, she has stated that she had love affairs with the
accused and she eloped with the accused on her own to marry him. At the time

of the incident, her age was above 18 years.

9. PW 3, Smt. Siblina Topno, the mother of the victim, has stated that the
occurrence took place about 4 months ago. On the day of the occurrence, she
went to the field and her daughter was alone in the house. When she came
back she came to know that her daughter is not there in their house. They
searched their daughter. On the next day they found their daughter along with
the accused. Her daughter told before her that she went along with the
accused as he told her that he will marry her. Her daughter also told her that
she was raped by the accused. Later on, her daughter lodged FIR. At the time

of the incident, the age of her daughter was 18 years.

 
Page 5 of 8

During her cross-examination, she stated that at the time of the

incident, the age of her daughter was 18 years.

10. PW 4, Sri Nowas Topno, the father of the victim, has stated that he
knew the accused Gobinda Sarkar. The occurrence took place about 3/4
months ago. On the day of the occurrence, he went to the field and his
daughter was alone in the house. When he came back he came to know that
his daughter is not there in his house. They searched for their daughter. On the
next day they found her on the road. His daughter told him that she went along
with the accused as he told her that he will marry her. His daughter also told
him that she was love affairs with the accused. At the time of the incident, the

age of his daughter was 16 years of age.

During her cross-examination, se stated that at the time of the incident,

his daughter had completed 18 years of age.

11. During examination under section 313 Cr.P.C the accused pleaded his
innocence and has stated that victim accompanied him on her own and she has

lodged false case against him.

12. The Offence under section 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences (POCSO) Act deals with punishment for penetrative sexual assault and
Section 3 of the POCSO Act defines penetrative sexual assault. The offence of
penetrative sexual assault under POCSO Act and for that matter other offences
also under this Act can be committed only on the child. The definition of child
u/s 2 (d) of the POCSO Act is as follows :-

“Child” means any person below the age of 18 years.

Thus, a person can be convicted for an offence under POCSO Act only if the
victim is below the age of 18 years. In the instant case, let us see as to

whether the victim was a child, at the time of commission of offence, or not.

13. If we peruse the testimony of the victim in this case, it appears that the
victim has mentioned her age as 19 years at the time of deposing before this
Court. She has also stated in her cross examination that she had a love affair

with the accused and she eloped with the accused on her own. It also appears

 
Page 6 of 8

from the testimony of victim that she lodged the FIR as she was asked to do so
by the villagers. She has gone to the extent of stating that she stated her age
as 16 years at that time as the police tutored her to say so. She has also stated
that actually her age was more than 18 years at the time of the incident. She
has also stated that the incident happened as she had consented to it. In the
instant case, though PW 1, who is the doctor, who examined the victim has
opined that the age of the victim at the time of her examination was below 18
years, however learned counsel for defence has argued that in light of the
categorical statement of the victim as well her both the parents that she was 18
years of age at the time of incident, the opinion of the doctor can be ignored by
this Court as there is a probability of percentage of error in assessment of the
age of the victim by radiological examination. Ld. Defence Counsel has also
cited a ruling of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in “Jaya Mala vs- Home
Secretary, Government of Jammu and Kashmir & Ors.” reported in
(1982) 2 SCC 538 wherein Hon’ble Supreme Court of India dealing with a
case were question of determination of the age was involved observed that :-
“one can take judicial notice that the margin of error in age
ascertained by radiological examination is 2 years on either side.” In
the instant case also in view of the aforesaid ruling of Hon’ble Supreme Court of
India and also in view of the categorical testimony of the victim and her parents
who deposed as PW 2,3 and 4 respectively that the victim was above 18 years
of age at the time of the incident, it can be inferred that the age ascertained by
Doctor in the instant case is not the conclusive determination of age of the
victim but it is to be accepted that an error of 2(two) years in determining the
age, through medical examination, is possible in the instant case also. Thus, for
the said reasons, this Court holds that the victim was not below the age of 18
years when the incident occurred. As the victim was not below the age of 18
years as per definition of child as provided in Section 2(d) of the Protection of
Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Moreover, the evidence of discussed
hereinabove clearly reveales that the victim was a consenting party to whatever
has happened with her as she had love affair with the accused. Therefore, this
Court is constrained to hold that no offence against her has committed u/s 4 of

the POCSO Act. In view of the above discussion and reasoning, this Court is of

 
Page 7 of 8

considered opinion that prosecution side has miserably failed to prove the
charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused. This Court is therefore left
with no other option but to acquit the accused of the charge u/s 4 of the
POCSO Act.

14. For the reasons stated above, the accused Gobinda Sarkar is acquitted
of the charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.

15. —_Let also a copy of this order be forwarded to the District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur u/s 365 Cr.P.C.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 30” day of
January, 2016

(Mridul Kumar Kalita)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Mridul Kumar Kalita)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3

Prosecution Witness No.4

Exhibit 1

Exhibit 1(1) & 2(1)
Exhibit 3 & 4
Exhibit 3(1)

Ext. 5

Ext. 6

Exhibit 5(1), 6(1) to 6(4)

Page 8 of 8

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- Dr. Nibedita Baruah,M.O.,
- Victim/complainant
i- Sri Siblina Topno

is Sri Nowas Topno

EXHIBITS.

- Medical report

- signatures of the M.O.

- X-ray and laboratory reports.
= Signature Doctor P.K. Barman
so Ejahar

a Statement of the victim

'- Signatures of the victim

( M. K. Kalita )

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
