Page 1 of 14

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR AT SILCHAR.

Present :- Sri K. Choudhury,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

Spl. (POCSO) Case No : 13/2016.
U/S. Sec.8 of POCSO Act.
State Of ASSAIMN.........ccceccee scene eeeaeeeaeeaeeeaeesaeeaeesaesaaessssees Complainant.
-Vs-
Nizamuddin Mazumdar.
S/O Razomul Ali Mazumdar.
Vill. Masimpur.Part-III P.S. Borkhola
District Cachar. Silchar. :::::::1: Accused person.
Charge framed on: - 23-08-16.

Date of recording evidence: - 06-09-16, 16-09-16, 28-09-16,06-10-16

Statement of the accused person recorded on:- 06-10.16.

Argument heard on ‘-  Q1-12-2016.

Judgment delivered on -- 07-12-2016.

ADVOCATE APPEARED

For the prosecution :- Mr. S. Dutta. P. P.

For the defence :- Mr. Y. Ali Laskar. Learned advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case in brief is that on 25-06-16 at about 3.30
p.m. while the twelve years aged daughter of the complainant, herein

below mentioned as the victim, was going to the house of her private
Page 2 of 14

tutor namely, Aditya Koiri following END bandh, on the way in a lonely
place the accused was found coming with buffalo. The accused, finding
the victim as alone, with his bed intention started behaving with her in
a slang manner. Accused also pressed her breast and also used force on
her. On her raising cry the accused released her. The victim then
returned home and informed the matter to her mother, i.e. the
complainant, who then went to the P.O. along with the victim and on
query managed to identify the accused. Accordingly FIR was lodged on
26-06-16. The same was registered as Borkhola P.S. case No. 207/2016
U/S 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act 2012
(POCSO Act).

2. During investigation, victim gave statement before the
Magistrate U/S 164 of CrP.C. She was also medically examined. On
completion of investigation I.O. submitted charge sheet against the
accused U/S Sec. 8 of POCSO Act 2012.

3. On production of the accused, copies of all necessary police
papers were furnished to him. After hearing of both sides and perusal
of materials on the record, this Court framed formal charge against the
accused under Sec.8 of the POCSO Act. The charge was read over and
explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty. Hence, trial

began.

4. To prove the case, prosecution examined as many as six
witnesses (P.Ws) including the Doctor, the I.O. and the victim. Defence
plea is that at the material time three buffalos of the accused were
climbing on the END bandh and at that time one auto was coming with
horn. Hearing the horn buffalo rushed forward and seeing the same the

victim being afraid started to run and fell down in front of the shop of
Page 3 of 14

one Abbas, and the victim abused the accused as a buffalo(Boyar), and
subsequently the accused had been falsely implicated. The accused in
his examination U/S 313 of CrP.C. took the same plea of false
implication. In support of his plea he examined one Abbas Uddin as
D.W.1.

5. Now, under the facts and circumstances of the case,
whether the accused committed any sexual assault on the victim minor

daughter of the complainant.

6. To decide the above appoint I have heard argument from
both sides and perused the entire evidence on the record. My findings

and decisions with reasons thereof are given below.
Let the evidence on the record be discussed below:-

7. PW. 1 —Purobi Rani Das mother of the victim. She deposed
that on the date of occurrence at about 3-10/3-15 PM. her victim
daughter student of class-VI went out to attend her private tutor
namely Aditya Koiri and returned just after 4.00 p.m. as weeping.
Seeing the victim daughter she (P.W.1) rushed out from the house and
made query. On such query the victim replied that someone committed
‘Saitan’ with her. The victim further reported that the culprit initially
proceeded with her talking nuisance and after sometime taking
advantage of lonely place the culprit touched her breast and vagina. On
query about the name of culprit the victim reported the name of culprit
as Nizam. P.W.1 further testified that she then along with the victim
went out in search of said Nizam, and taking the help of others they
managed to reach the house of said Nizam, who was then identified by
the victim as the culprit and accused of this case. After that she
returned with her victim daughter and lodged ejahar the Ext-1. During
investigation police seized one birth certificate of the victim vide Ext-2.
M.Ext-1 is the birth certificate showing the date of birth of the victim as
Page 4 of 14

on 29-11-2004.

In the cross-examination she further gave the topography
of the surroundings of the P.O. According to her on the western side of
the END there are few houses and grazing ground around ten feet
below the END band. She denied the defence plea of running buffalo
etc. as stated earlier. She denied the suggestion that the alleged
incident took place in a lonely place and the accused did not touch the
body of the victim and at the instance of some enemies of the accused
lodged the ejahar.

8. P.W.2, the victim, deposed that about two months prior to
her evidence one day at about 3-05 p.m. she was proceeding on foot to
attend her private tuition. On the way, the accused started to follow her.
Initially he started to talk with her asking her name, the name of her
school and then started further gossiping stating that he used to take
milk of buffalo, cow and also used to drink milk of female person. The
accused was along with his buffalo. Realizing his ill intention she started
to walk with speed. After that the accused touched her shoulder and
pressed her breast. The accused touched her hand and touched her
abdomen. However, she managed to get rid of him. While leaving him
away told him that she would report the matter to her parents. The
accused then told her to disclose the matter to her parents expressing
that he on her will did the same. The accused then left away.

9. P.W.2 further deposed that on the way back to her house
she found one small boy from whom she came to know the name of the
accused as Nizam. The boy came there to release his cow. After that
she returned home speedily and reported the matter to her mother. Her
mother then along with her went out and taking the help of others
managed to reach the house of the accused. The accused was found in
his homestead. She showed the accused to her mother as culprit. The

accused stated to her mother that he to save the victim from running
Page 5 of 14

buffalo caught hold her. Her mother without replying anything returned
home. Her mother reported the matter to her father over telephone.
Her father returned home from office. All of them went to Masimpur
police out post. Police of the outpost told them that the case could not
be registered in that out post. Then they went to Borkhola P.S. and
disclosed the matter to the O/C who told them to visit on the following
morning to file written ejahar On the following morning at about 10.00
they reached Borkhola P.S. again. She was medically examined by
doctor. She gave statement before the Magistrate. Ext-3 is her
statement.

10. In the cross-examination she denied the defence plea of
running buffalo. She also denied the suggestion that at that time there
were three numbers of buffalo and also denied that the accused did not
at all touch her body. She also denied that she at the instance of
villagers inimical to the accused filed false FIR and being tutored by her
parents and members of Bajrangdal gave statement before the
Magistrate and adduced false evidence.

11. P.W.3, the father of the victim, deposed that on the month
of last previous Ramjan one day at about 4-15 PM. the P.W.1 over
telephone asked him to return home at the earliest. He immediately
returned home by his bike. On query his wife (P.W.1) told that the
accused Nizam pressed the victim on the way to tuition. He then
reported the matter to A.P. member namely Liton Ch. Das who
suggested to take the help of police. After that he along with Aditya
Koiri, the private tutor of the victim, and PW.1 and P.W.2 and one
Chakraborty at first visited Masimpur police out post. In-charge of the
outpost suggested them to report the matter to Borkhola P.S. Then they
went to Borkhola on that night. O/C of the P.S. suggested them to lodge
written complaint on the following morning as it was night. On the

following morning he (P.W.3) along with his wife and the victim with an
Page 6 of 14

auto went to the P.S. His wife lodged the written FIR. FIR was written
by one petition writer of Borkhola locality. He further deposed that
during the investigation I.O. seized one birth certificate of the victim
vide Ext-2. He disclosed that he was under threat by some unknown
relatives of the accused, who asked him to withdraw the case. He also
disclosed that on that morning i.e. on the morning of date of recording
his evidence one Alim of village Tupkhana met him with a request to
withdraw the case otherwise there would a chance of harm to be
caused by the accused on release. P.W.3 also disclosed his
apprehension about the future consequence while deposing evidence.
He denied the defence suggestion that at the instance of vested
interested person inimical to the accused his wife lodged the false case
against the accused.

12. P.W.4, Aditya Koiri, deposed that at the material time the
victim girl a student of Class -VI used to take private tuition from him at
his home at around 3-30 p.m. On the date of occurrence she did not
attend the private tuition. On that day at around 4/4-30 p.m. her
parents over telephone called him and he immediately went to their
house. On his arrival he found the victim as crying. Mother of the victim
reported that while the victim was going to attend private tuition, on
the way one Nizamuddin Mazumdar misbehaved with her (victim). He
further deposed that he then returned to attend other students. Said
Nizamuddin is identified in the Court. P.W.4 further deposed that on the
following day he along with the victim and her parents went to Borkhola
P.S. In the cross-examination defence has brought the topography of
the area where the accused reside and also stated that on call of the
police he went to the PS.

13.. P.W./5 is the M.O. According to him on 26-06-16 while he
was working as M.O. & H.O. at Borkhola PHC examined the victim on

police requisition and found no injury on her person.
Page 7 of 14

In the cross-examination he stated that he examined the

victim at about 10.00 a.m.

14. P.W.6 is the I.O. According to him on 26-06-16 O/C of P.S.
receiving ejahar of this case registered the same and entrusted him for
investigation. During investigation he examined the witnesses, visited
the P.O. and seized original birth certificate of the victim. He further
deposed that he sent the victim for medical examination and also
produced the victim before the Magistrate for recording statement U/S
164 Cr.P.C. On 05-07-16 he arrested the accused from Srikona Police
patrol post being handed over by the Public. He further deposed that
before that he made house search of the accused for apprehension but
the accused was found absconding. Subsequently he submitted charge
sheet Ext-6.

In his cross-examination he stated that he accompanied by
parents of the victim, visited the P.O. According to the statement of the
victim the P.O. is near the shop of Abbas. He further stated that shop
and house of Abbas adjacent to each other. He did not find any of them
in the house and for that he could not examine any of them. There is
no other house in the near surroundings of the house of Abbas.

15. D.W.1 Abbas Uddin deposed that he had got a stationary
shop at a distance of around 15-20 cubits from his house adjacent to
END band to the west. According to him on the date of alleged incident
at about 3/3-30 p.m. while he was closing the door of his shop to
attend Asar prayer suddenly saw three numbers of buffalo were running
to the north. He also noticed one girl being frightened by running
buffalo fell down in front of his shop on the END bandh. He also noticed
the accused to come to that place from the South. Accused was the
owner of the buffalo. On query the girl told that she did not get any

pain. By this time the accused also arrived there. Seeing the accused
Page 8 of 14

girl abused the accused stating him like a buffalo. The accused then
replied asking whether the girl was blind and did not notice the running
buffalo. The girl then stated that she would give a bichar and returned
home. The D.W. further deposed that the girl used to attend private
tuition in the house of Aditya Koiri. He after leaving both the accused
and the girl went to his house and changing dress went to mosque for
prayer and returned home after evening for “Iftar”. Police did not come
to his shop or in front of the shop. He did not report anything about the
alleged incident to anybody. He gave topography of the place of
occurrence. According to him at the material time the P.O. was lonely
16. From the above evidence it is evident that evidence
are corroborative with each other in all material particulars except some
minor ignorable discrepancies. During argument learned P.P. has
submitted that in the instance case the age of the victim, presence of
the accused and the victim at the material time at the P.O., are not
disputed. It is also. submitted that evidence of the victim fully
corroborated her statement made U/S 164 of Cr.P.C. and the sole
testimony of the victim in the absence of any some convincing ground
for false implication can be totally relied upon. Further it is submitted
some defects in the investigation cannot give rise to any doubt about
the veracity of the testimony of the witnesses and to make the
prosecution case a doubtful one. In support of the contentions learned
P.P. cited following decisions focusing the relevant points of
observations.
1. Ranjit Hazarika —Vs- State of Assam February 1996.
Equivalent citations (1998)8 SCC 635

"Wothing has been brought out to doubt her veracity or to

suggest as to why she would falsely implicate the appellant and put her

own reputation at stake..”
Page 9 of 14

2. 2016 Cr.LJ. 324.

Where observation of Hon'ble Supreme Court as made in
State of Punjab —Vs- Gurmit Singh and others reported in 1996 to SCC
384 (AIR 1996) SC. 1393 is as follows:

"The inherent bashfulness of the females and tendency to
conceal outrage of sexual aggression are factors which the courts
should not overlook. The testimony of the victim in such cases is vital
and unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate looking for
corroboration of her statement, the courts should find no difficulty to
act on testimony of a victim of sexual assault alone to convict an
accused where her testimony inspires confidence and is found to be
reliable. Seeking corroboration of her statement before relying upon the
same, as a rule, in such cases amounts to adding insult to injury.
beneaee Corroboration as a condition for judicial reliance on the testimony
of the prosecutrix is not a requirement of law but a guidance of

prudence under given circumstances.”

3. Om Prakash —Vs- State of U.P AIR 2006 SC. 2214 referred
in 2016 GLR 461:

"It is observed by Hon’ble Apex Court that it is settled law
that the victim of sexual assault is not treated as accomplice and as
such, her evidence does not require corroboration from any other
evidence including the evidence of a Doctor.”

17. Learned P.P. further strongly submitted that although the
defence side tried to demolish the positive evidence of all the material
witnesses cross-examining them at length made some futile attempts to
establish that the P.O. was not a lonely place and in the surroundings

there were many houses but the D.W.1 in his cross-examination foiled
Page 10 of 14

this attempt stating that the P.O. at the material time was a lonely place
and he did not notice any other person at the P.O. except the victim and
the accused, and no other person was also arrived there. It is further
submitted that presence of the accused and the victim at the material
time at the P.O. is virtually admitted by the accused, and the defence
plea of running buffalo and use of abusing word towards the accused is
not at all reliable. Further submission is that there is no delay in lodging
FIR and the defence suggestion of inimical relation is very hypothetical
in nature and thus cannot be relied upon without any material on the
record.

18. Learned defence counsel has submitted that since the very
beginning stage of the investigation defence took the same plea of
running buffalo etc. and there is no deviation from it even in the later
stage of the trial. Further submission is that the testimony of Defence
witnesses as per law is also to be treated at par with the prosecution
witnesses by giving similar weightage. In support of the submission the
learned counsel cited the following decisions highlighting observations:-
1) 1989 Cr.L.J (Gau)1742 “In Dudh Nath Pandey v. State of U.P, AIR
1981 SC 911 : (1981 Cri L J 618), it had been ruled that the defence
witnesses are entitled to equal treatment with those of the prosecution;
that Courts ought to overcome their traditional instinctive disbelief in
defence witnesses; and that often they tell lies but so do the
prosecution witnesses.”

2) 1992 CrL.J. (Gau)1197 “It is well settled principle of law that
merely because a person is examined on behalf of the accused, his
evidence should not be taken lightly and in fact his evidence stands on
the same footing as that of witness for the prosecution”

It is evident from the entire evidence on record that the alleged P.O. is
near the shop of D.W.1. who stated that after 10-12 days of the alleged

incident the accused was arrested. According to him on request of the
Page 11 of 14

son of the accused he appeared as witness in this case. Under such
circumstances question naturally comes as to why he did not disclose
anything about the alleged incident as claimed to have been seen by
him, to anybody. The I.O. in his cross-examination stated that house
and shop of the said Abbas is adjacent to each other and on his visit to
the P.O. he did not find any person in the house and for that he could
not examine any of them. He also deposed that he did not find the
accused in the house and was found absconding. If it is believed
question will come as to why the accused absconded for many days and
as to why he did not disclose about his plea so taken to anybody and
also to the IO after his apprehension. Evidence of the IO discloses that
there was no other house in the near surroundings of said Abbas and
for that he could not examine any other person. Defence suggestion
that there were 5-6 numbers of houses in the surroundings of said
Abbas is difficult to be believed in the absence of anything brought in
the evidence of said Abbas as D.W.1. The defence plea that the material
witnesses at the instance of vested interested persons inimical to the
accused the FIR was lodged. But surprising enough that the defence
side has not made any slightest attempt to bring anything in the cross-
examination of any of the material witnesses even in the evidence of
D.W.1 to suggest that there had been some _ inimical relation of the
accused with some villagers who might have induced the complainant
to lodge false FIR. That being so, no force is found to conceive
existence of any slightest probability of false implication, and that too,
by parents of the minor victim girl taking the risk of jeopardizing the
family reputation and future of the victim. Further it is also not
believable that teacher of the victim would also depose falsely against
the accused under the facts and circumstances of this case. There is no
contradiction with regard to any material fact or circumstance of this

case. Similarly there is also no material omission to affect the root of
Page 12 of 14

the prosecution case. It is also not believable that a minor girl a student
of class-VI could depose falsely against any unknown person involving
her modesty. There is no delay in lodging of the FIR. However cause of
some delay in filing written ejahar is clearly evident in the evidence on
record. Taking evidence in its entirety I find no reason to disbelieve the
testimony of the victim girl corroborated by other reported witnesses.

19. In view of the above discussion of evidence, contention
and consideration of evidence on its entirety it is held that prosecution
case is proved beyond all reasonable doubt U/s Sec.8 of POCSO Act.
Therefore, the accused is held guilty and convicted accordingly. Heard
the accused on the question of sentence. His statements are recorded

in separate sheet tagged with the case record.

20. Having due regard to his statement and also consideration
of all aspects of this case and also evidence given by PW 3 to the effect
that he was under threat by some unknown relatives of the accused
and there was request for withdrawal of the case otherwise there
would be a chance of causing harm by the accused after his release as
Stated earlier, and considering the nature of offence committed against
the minor girl student of class -VI_ I am of the view that the accused
should not be shown any sort of leniency. So, I convict and sentence
the accused U/S 8 of POCSO Act to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI)
for a period of 3 years along with fine of Rs. 5000/- and in default shall

further undergo RI for a period of 2 months.

21. Victim compensation- having considering all aspects of this
case and the fact that a minor girl of around 13 years and a student of
class-VI had to undergo mental pain and sufferings for the act of the
accused, I am of the view that an amount of Rs. 15,000/- may be
reasonably assessed as compensation U/S 357-A of Cr.P.C, to be paid

either to the victim or to her mother, the complainant as compensation.
Page 13 of 14

copy of the judgment be forwarded to the Secretary Political
Department, Govt. of Assam for taking necessary steps for payment of

the compensation to the victim

22. Copy of the Judgment be furnished to the accused free of
cost as per provision of Sec. 363 CrP.C. and to be forwarded to the
District Magistrate as per provision of Sec. 365 Cr.P.C. Copy of the
judgment along with copy of statement of the victim, complainant and
copy of the FIR shall be forwarded to the Secretary DLSA

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court under

my seal and signature on this 7 Day of December, 2016.

(Shri K. Choudhury)
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Dictated & corrected by me.

(Shri K. Choudhury)
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Page 14 of 14

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR.
Spl. POCSO Case No. 13/2016.
APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — Purobi Rani Das.
PW. 2 — Piyali Rani Das.
PW. 3 -— Pannalal Das.
PW. 4— Aditya Koiri.
PW. 5 —- Dr. Badiruz Jaman.
PW. 6 — Alongbar Basumatari.(I.O)
(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - Abbas Uddin.
(C) COURT WITNESSES: - NIL.

(D) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — FLR.

Ext. 1 (1) — Signature of P.W.1.

Ext. 2 — Seizure list.

Ext. 2 (1) — Signature of P.W.1.
Ext.3 : Statement of P.W.1.
Ext. 3(1) to 3(4)— Signature of P.W.2.
Ext. 4 — Medical report.

Ext. 5 — Medical report.

Ext. 4(1) — Signature of PW-5.
M.Ext- - Photo copy of birth certificate of victim.
(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ Nil.

(Shri K. Choudhuy),
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
