 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 37 (CH) of 2018
U/s 448 & 387 of I.P.C.
R/w Section 18 of POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM — haa eaceceeeeeeeeeeeeeenees Complainant.
-Versus -

Sri Deepak Kalita

S/o- Sri Someswar Kalita

R/o- Pub-Nabapur Village

P.S- Sadiya

District- Tinsukia, ASSAM oh. eeececeeseceeeeeeeeees Accused.

Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,
Spl. Public Prosecutor —...........0e For the State
G.B. Chetry and Sandip Sarmah,
Advocat€S — aa eeeeeeteeteeeaees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 08/07/2019
Date of Judgment: 08/07/2019
} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. On 24/04/2018, the informant lady had lodged an
ejahar before police, alleging that the accused and two other
persons had come to her house and after showing a pistol
tried to commit rape upon her 13 year old daughter. It is also
alleged in the ejahar that the miscreants demanded a cash
amount of Rs. 1 lac from the said girl.

2. During the period of investigation, the victim girl gave
a statement u/s 164 Cr.PC, wherein she has stated that on the
day of occurrence, two persons had come to her house and
asked her for the whereabouts of her father. The victim girl
has stated that those two persons accused the victim of
concealing her father somewhere inside the house.

3. On conclusion of investigation, police filed the charge
sheet against the present accused Deepak Kalita u/s 448/387
of Indian Penal Code and 18 of the POCSO Act.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

4. The points for determination in this trial, are as to
l. Whether the accused had committed house trespass
by entering into the house of the informant by unlawfully

remaining there with intent to intimidate her?

ll. Whether the accused had intentionally put the
complainant in fear of committing sexual assault upon her
minor daughter?

lll. Whether the accused had attempted to commit
penetrative sexual assault upon the minor daughter of the

complainant?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. In order to prove the case against the accused person, the
prosecution side has examined the complainant and the victim
girl only. The defence plea is total denial. | have carefully gone
through the prosecution evidences.

6. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up
the evidence of the victim girl. She claimed to be 16 years old.
The victim girl has stated in her evidence that on the day of
occurrence her parents were absent in the house and the
accused came to her house in police uniform. According to the
victim girl, the accused was accompanied by two other
persons in civil dress. The victim girl has stated that the
accused and the two other persons inquired her about
whereabout of her father and her mother. The victim has
stated that one of the rooms of her house was under the lock
and key and the accused and the other two persons told her
that she had kept her father hidden inside that room. The
victim girl has further stated that the accused and the other
two persons wanted to have tea and therefore, the victim
went to the kitchen to prepare tea for them. According to
victim girl, the accused and the other two persons followed
her into the kitchen and they caught hold of her by her hands
and then the accused and the two other persons showed a
pistol to her. The victim has stated that by that time, her
mother had arrived home and the accused and the other two
persons released her. The victim disclosed that the accused
and the other two persons had some talks with her mother.
The victim girl has stated that she over heard one of the

unknown persons demanding Rs. 1 lac from her mother.

7. Now, | shall take up the evidence of the mother of the
victim girl. She has stated in her evidence that on the day of
occurrence at about 6 pm, she arrived home and heard that
her daughter was shouting from side the house. The mother of
the victim girl disclosed that she saw that the accused and
one unknown persons were coming out from the kitchen. This
witness disclosed that her daughter informed her that the
present accused had caught her by her hands and also
showed a pistol to her. According to the mother of the victim
girl, the accused and his accomplishes were wearing police
uniform at that time. The witness has stated that the accused
asked her to pay an amount of Rs. 1 lac within the next 10
days and also told her that in the event of failure to pay the
money, her entire family will be wiped out.

8. The mother of the victim girl has stated that after 5
months ago of the said occurrence, police came to her house
in search of her husband. The witness has stated that police
had believed that her husband was working for an extremist
organization. The witness has stated that after police had left
her house, the accused had come to her house and threatened
her that he will finish her of.

9. Both the witnesses have been cross examined by the
defence counsel. The victim did not state before police that
the accused and the other two persons wanted to have tea in
her house and when she had gone to the kitchen to prepare
tea for them, the accused and the other two persons had
followed her into the kitchen. This fact was confronted to the
witness and she denied that fact.

10. The victim has stated that her father was in Jail for six
months. The defence side has suggested to her that before
filing of the ejahar by her mother, her father was already
arrested by police. The mother of the victim girl stated before
the defence counsel that three days prior to the coming of
police to her house, police had seized her mobile phone. This
witness was also suggested by the defence counsel that her
husband was arrested on 22/04/2018 and she filed the ejahar
on 24/04/2018. This witness was further suggested that
different explosive items were seized from the possession of
her husband.

11. | have carefully gone through the prosecution evidence.
The victim in this case did not state before police that the
accused and the two other persons had followed her into the
kitchen, where they had reportedly threatened her and also
showed a pistol to her. There are no witnesses in this case to
support that fact. Therefore, it amounts to a contradiction.
Regarding the evidence of the mother of the victim girl, there
is no corroborating evidence to suggest that the accused had
demanded Rs. 1 lac from her.

12. Here in this case, it is an admitted fact that the
husband of the complainant was arrested by police on an
allegation that he possessed some explosive items and after
his arrest, the present case has been filed. The witnesses, who
are not examined by the prosecution in this case are Anjali
Gogoi, Bimala Gogoi and Dipali Gogoi, are all hearsay
witnesses and they have not supported the prosecution case
against the accused. For this reason, the Ld. Public Prosecutor
declined to examine them. After going through the materials
available with the case record, | had agreed with the decision
of the Ld. Public Prosecutor.

13. Now, it is clear on the face of the record that in this
case the evidence of the victim girl has contradiction. Her
earlier statement made before police does not tally with her
evidence. The materials available with the case record
disclose that after the arrest of the husband of the
complainant, she filed this case against the present accused
and the two other persons. The accused is a driver of police
vehicle and seems to have been acquainted with the

complainant since prior to the occurrence.

14. Under the aforesaid circumstances, | find that the
prosecution evidence available with the case record failed to
inspire confidence to the effect that this accused had ever
attempted to commit rape upon the victim girl. The evidence
also failed to inspire confidence to the effect that the accused
had wrongfully entered into the house of the informant and
also demanded money from her. Therefore, | hereby hold that
the prosecution evidence failed to prove the offence against
the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

15. In the result, the accused Deepak Kalita is found not
guilty and accordingly the accused is acquitted from this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
8th day of July, 2019.

(P, J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P_ EN DIX
PROSECUTION WITNESSES
1. PW1 - Smti Nirumai Gogoi
2. PW2 - Miss Parashmoni Gogoi

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

1. Ext.1- Ejahar
2. Ext. 2- Statement u/s 164 Cr.PC
3. Ext. 3- Statement u/s 164 Cr.PC

DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
