IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS J UDGE cum SPECIAL J UDGE :::: SIVASAGAR

Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS
Sessions J udge cum Special | udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 42 of 2016, U/ S 451 IPC and Sec. 10 of POCSO Act, 2012.
(Arising out of Namtola P.S. Case No. 27/2016)

State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Binod Thakur  ......ceeeeeeeeeeeee Accused

APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
For the accused Mr. D. M. Neog, Advocate

(Legal Aid Counsel)
Date of framing Charge: 03.05.2017
Dates of Evidence 21.09.2017, 30.11.2017, 05.01.2018,

01.02.2018, 04.05.2018
Date of S/D 18.05.2018
Date of Argument ; 14.06.2018 & 12.07.2018
Date of J udgment 09.08.2018
UDGMENT

l. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 06.06.2016, one Sri Sambhu

Tassa lodged an FIR with O/C Namtola P.S. alleging, inter alia, that on that day,
at about 10.30 AM, while his physically challenged eldest daughter victim 'S'
(name withheld), aged about 14 years was alone in the house, his neighbour
Sri Binod Thakur (accused herein) came to his house and attempted to commit
rape on the victim and also attempted to kill her by strangulating her neck.

However, victim somehow rescued herself.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Namtola P.S. Case No. 27/2016, U/S 447/
354(A)/323 IPC, read with Section 18 of POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and

investigated. During investigation, |.0. visited the place of occurrence, prepared

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 1 of 13
Sketch map and recorded the statement of the witnesses. During investigation,
accused was found absconding. The victim was medically examined and
recorded her statement in the court U/S 164 Cr.P.C. On completion of
investigation, |.0. has submitted Charge-Sheet U/S 18 of POCSO Act, 2012

against the accused Binod Thakur showing him absconder.

3. On receipt of charge sheet, cognizance of offence was taken and
after furnishing copy to the accused and after hearing both the sides, vide
order dated 03.05.2017, charge U/S 451 IPC and Section 10 of POCSO Act,
2012 has been framed against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to stand trial.

4, During trial, prosecution side has examined nine witnesses
including two medical officers and 1.0. Upon completion of the prosecution
evidence, accused was examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial
and false implication. Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was called

upon to enter into defence.

Di. It may be noted here that the victim being physically challenged
due to her mental retardation, her 164 Cr.P.C. statement was recorded with the
help of interpreter and similarly her evidence in court was also recorded with
the help of Smt. Papori Bora, a Graduate Science Teacher of Hearing Impaired
School, Jorhat. It may further be noted here that accused was shown
absconder and his attendance could procure only on 18.04.2017 after
Submission of Charge-Sheet and thereafter accused face the trial as UTP till
date.

6. | have heard argument of learned Special P.P. Mr. Srimanta Gogol
and Mr. D.M. Neog, learned Legal Aid Counsel and gone through the evidence

on record. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
7. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

(I) What was the age of the victim 'S' on the date of incident?
(II) © Whether on 06.06.2016, at about 10.30 AM, accused committed

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 2 of 13
house trespass by entering into the house of the informant with an
intention to commit an offence?

(111) Whether on the same date, time and place, accused committed
aggravated sexual assault on victim 'S'?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

8. Before going further | would like to mention the evidence on

record for better understanding of case of the both the sides.

9. PW-1 the victim S, in her evidence with the help of interpreter
deposed that on the date of incident, while she was alone in her house,
accused came to her house and touched her body and breast. He opened the
buttons of her shirt. On making cry, accused hold her neck. She got pain on her
chest, face and neck. Accused also opened her panty. By that time her mother
arrived and accused fled away. PW 1 further deposed that her statement was
recorded in Court through the same interpreter. Exbt. 1 is the said Statement.
Exbt 1(1) is the signature as expert interpreter. In her cross-examination, the
victim through interpreter deposed that she has two younger brothers and on
that day, they were also not present in the house. She denied the defence
Suggestions that accused neither misbehaved her nor touched her breast and

body. She denied to have deposed on being tutored by her father.

10. PW 2 Sri Judhisthir Tanti, in his evidence deposed that on
06.06.2016, while he was at his residence, mother of the victim came to his
house and informed that on her return form work place, she saw her daughter
weeping and from her daughter she came to know that accused Binod Thakur
after strangulating the neck of Victim, committed misdeed with Victim. On
knowing this, he advised her to inform the matter to police and sent her with
one VDP member to Namtola PS. She filed FIR. On coming of police, | went to
the house of victim. In his cross-examination, PW 2 deposed that police came
to the house of informant on next day and then only he accompany police to
the house of victim. He did not inquire the fact from the victim as she cannot

speak properly.

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 3 of 13
11. PW 3 Smt. Radha Mani Tassa, mother of the victim in her
evidence deposed that accused Binod Thakur is her next door neighbour. Victim
is unable to speak properly since last 6-7 years due to suffering from J apanese
Encephalitis. She is able to hear but could not speak clearly. However, she (PW
3) can understand her signs and unclear voice due to her long association with
her daughter. On 06.06.2016, her daughter was aged about 14 years. On that
day, at about 12 noon, while she return home from place of work, she saw her
daughter Victim was weeping alone in the house. Her two sons aged about 12
years and 8 years were at their school. Her husband was at his work place. On
her arrival, she (the victim) made her understand that accused came to our
residence, and opening her cloths, he touched her breast. She also shown her
that accused holds her neck by his hand, tried to pull her panty which she also
noticed that it has come down from waist. On her arrival home, she saw the
accused just outside of his gate. Her daughter has specifically shown the
accused that he has committed the misdeeds with her. On knowing this,
immediately she went to the residence of VDP Secretary J udhisthir Tanti and
informed him about the incident; who sent them to Namtola PS. Her husband
Sambhu Tassa lodged an FIR at Namtola PS. On the next day morning, police
came to their house. Police took her daughter to hospital. Subsequently her
daughter was also taken to court for her statement. After the incident, she also
informed the matter to neighbouring peoples and her husband. In her cross-
examination, PW 3 deposed that residence of accused was on the other side of
the road. Both of them use same road for entering respective houses. Victim
could not describe the incident in her voice but shown by signs, which, she
understood. She denied that prior to this incident; they have sour relation with
the accused. She also denied that accused did not misbehave the victim. She
also denied that due to wrong understanding of signs of the victim, she
deposed falsely against the accused. She also denied that while giving
statement to police, she has not stated regarding opening of her cloths by the
accused and that victim also shown her that accused tried to pull her panty
which she also noticed that it has come down from waist.

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 4 of 13
12. PW 4 Sri Sambhu Tassa, father of the victim, in his evidence
deposed that his daughter born in the year 2000. On 06.06.2016, while he was
at Tea Estate on duty, one Bagan employee informed him that someone by
entering into his house, has abused his daughter. On this he return home, and
Saw nail scratch mark on the cheek and chest of the victim. On his arrival,
victim made him understand that accused came to his residence, and touched
her breast. She also shown that that accused holds her neck and pulled her
panty. On knowing this, he went to the house of accused and pulled to his
house and shown the incident. Accused was in drunken state. Immediately, he
and his wife went to the residence of VDP Secretary Judhisthir Tanti and
informed him about the incident. On return from VDP’s house, accused fled
away. VDP sent them to Namtola PS. On this incident, he lodged the FIR at
Namtola PS. Exbt. 2 is the FIR. In his cross-examination, he deposed that one
Suman of their line has informed him about the incident. He denied the defence
Suggestion that while giving statement to police, he has not stated regarding
“finding of nail scratch mark on the cheek and chest of his daughter, that
accused pulled her panty, that on knowing this, he went to the house of
accused and pulled him to his house and shown the incident, that accused was
in drunken state. He also denied that prior to this incident; they have sour

relation with the accused and that accused did not misbehave the victim.

13. PW 5 Sri Bharat Nayak in his evidence deposed that on
06.06.2016, Radhamani Tassa, mother of the victim came to him and informed
that in their absence, accused Binod Thakur came to her house hold victims
body and strangulated her neck. On knowing this, he went to the house of
informant and saw that victim was weeping and she shown some signals to
him. He informed the matter to VDP Secretary Judhisthir Tanti. In his cross-
examination, PW 5 deposed that from the signs shown by victim, he could
understand that she was hold by accused. She was unable to speak properly.

He could not understand her words.

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 5 of 13
14. PW 6 Sri Ratnakar Nayak in his evidence deposed that on
06.06.2016, at about 6 PM Sambhu Tassa, father of the victim came to him and
informed that in their absence, accused Binod Thakur came to his house hold
victims body and strangulated her neck. On knowing this, he advised them to
take the matter to police. In his cross-examination, PW 6 stated that father of
the victim specifically told him that accused hold the hand, legs and neck of his

daughter

15. PW 7 Smt. Munna Thakur, a relative of the accused, in his
evidence deposed that about a year back, police came to his house and
searched the accused Binod Thakur. On his denial about his presence at his
residence police left his house. Later on, he heard from local people that Binod

Thakur was arrested by police on the allegation of rape of victim.

16. PW 8, Dr. Rehan Sheikh, the medical officer in his evidence
deposed that on 07.06.2016 at about 01.30 p.m. on police requisition, he
examined the victim S in connection with Namtola P. S. Case No. 27/2016 and
on examination he is of the opinion that she is a mentally retarded girl. No sign
of sexual intercourse. There are some abrasions over face, chin and upper part
of neck. Ext. 3 is the medical report. In his cross -examination, the medical
officer has deposed that though he advised for radiological examination for

determining the age, but the same was not done by the victim side.

17. PW 9 Inspector Dipul Kr. Boro in his evidence deposed that on
07.06.2016, he received one written FIR from Sri Sambhu Tassa and
investigated the case. On the same day, victim was sent for medical
examination. As she is physically disabled having slurred voice, he could not
record her statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Victim was sent to Court for recording her
Statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. As directed by Court, one specialist interpreter from
Jorhat Hearing Impaired School was brought and with the help, J MFC Sonari
has recorded the statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. During investigation, he
went to the place of occurrence |.e. residence of informant at Towkak T.E. line

No. 2 and drawn a sketch map of the PO. Exbt. 4 is the said sketch map.

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 6 of 13
During investigation, he could not apprehend the FIR named accused Sri Binod
Thakur as he absconded. | have attempted on three occasions to arrest him i.e.
07.06.2016, 14.06.2016 and 30.07.2016 but failed as he was found absconding
from his house. During investigation, he has obtained one age proof certificate
of the victim issued by Medical Officer, Towkak Central Hospital. Exbt. 5 is the
Said certificate. As per Exbt. 5, the date of birth of the victim Tassa is
11.11.2001. On completion of investigation, he has submitted charge sheet
against the accused Binod Thakur by showing him as absconder u/s 18 of
POCSO Act. Exbt. 6 is the charge sheet. In his cross by defence, the I/O
deposed that Exbt 5 was issued on 22.08.2016. Incident took place 06.06.2016.
In the sketch Map, he has shown the residence of Ganesh Pradhan, Ganesh
Nayak and Juga Karmakar. He did not examine them or any of their family
members as witness in this case. Witness Radha Mani Tassa in her statement
before him did not state regarding opening of victims cloths by the accused and
that she also shown her that accused tried to pull her panty which she also
noticed that it has come down from waist. Witness Sambhu Tassa in his
statement did not state regarding finding of nail scratch mark on the cheek and
chest of his daughter, that accused pulled her panty, that on knowing this, he
went to the house of accused and pulled him to his house and shown the
incident, that accused was in drunken state. He did not examine the brothers of
the victim as witness in this case. He denied that he had not investigated the

case properly.

18. From the above evidence on record, let me decide the points

formulated for just decision of this case.

19. Point No. 1: So far age of the victim is concerned, P.W. 3 mother of
the victim in her evidence stated that on the date of incident, victim 'S' was
aged about 14 years. P.W. 4, father of the victim stated that his daughter
victim 'S' was born in the year 2000. This part of evidence on age of the victim
remained unchallenged by the defence. In cross examination by defence, P.W.
8 Dr. Rehan Sheikh, the medical officer stated that he has not determined the

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 7 of 13
age of the victim as radiological examination was not done though advised. P.W.
9 the 1.0. In his evidence deposed that during investigation, he has obtained
one age proof certificate of the victim issued by the Medical Officer of Towkak
Central Hospital and proved the same as Exbt. 5. As per Exbt. 5, the date of
birth of the victim is 11.11.2001. This part of evidence on age was put to
accused who stated that the age of the victim will be more than what she
claimed but he did not throw any light on her age. From the materials on record,
it appears that no authentic document was seized by police on age, such as
birth certificate or school certificate. Age was also not determined through
radiological examination process. Under these circumstances, | have to rely on
Exbt. 5 issued by M.O. of Towkak Central Hospital wherein it has been clearly
mentioned that the victim was born on 11.11.2001 as per Towkak Medical
Record Book. Thus from the above, it appears that on the date of incident i.e.
on 06.06.2016, the victim 'S' was aged about 14% years and same got due
support from the mother (P.W. 3) of the victim. As such, it can safely be held

that on the date of incident the victim 'S' was aged about 14% years.

20. Point No. Il & II: So far Point No. II and III are concerned, both
the points are taken up together for discussion as they are inter related. From
the evidence of victim (P.W. 1) which has been recorded with the help of
interpreter Smt. Papori Bora, a Graduate Science Teacher attached to Hearing
Impaired School Jorhat, it appears that while victim was alone in her house,
accused whom she recognized in court being next door neighbour, came to her
house, touched her body and breast, opened the buttons of her shirt. She got
pain on her neck, chest and face while holding and opening her panty by the
accused. So far the injury is concerned, from the evidence of P.W. 8 the
medical officer, it appears that on the next day of the incident, he examined the
victim who came to him with alleged history of attempt to rape on her. During
examination, he found her mentally retarded due to cerebral palsy and found
abrasion over lower part of the face, chin, upper part of neck. No injury was

detected on her private parts and he proved his report as Exbt. 3. P.W. 3 and

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 8 of 13
P.W. 4, the parents of the victim, in their evidence has clearly stated that on
returning home, the victim made them understand by her signs and signals that
accused Binod Thakur came to their house and finding the victim alone, opened
her cloths, touched her breast, hold her neck by his hands. The victim also
made them understand that accused attempted to open her panty which was
found coming down from her waist. In their cross examination except denial,
defence failed to dislodge their evidence so far coming of the accused to their
house and attempt made by the accused to molest the victim. Finding of injury
marks on the face and neck of the victim supports the evidence of the victim so
far allegation of strangulating her neck by the accused. The other witnesses, i.e.
P.W. 2, P.W. 5, P.W. 6 and P.W. 7 are hearsay witnesses being reported by the
parents of the victim which appears to be in a natural course of reaction from
the parents knowing on the attempt of molestation made on the victim. They all
have categorically stated that soon after the incident, the matter was reported
to them with a specific allegation against the accused Binod Thakur and on
knowing this, P.W. 5 came to the house of the victim and saw her weeping.
The evidence of P.W. 5 in his cross examination affirmed that from the signs
shown by the victim, he could understand that she was hold by the accused.
Thus though these witnesses could not directly ask the victim about the victim,
but under the facts and circumstances, their evidence appears to be relevant to

this case towards supporting the prosecution case.

21. The other aspect, which gives strength to the prosecution case Is
that while PW 3 returned to her house, she saw the accused in going out of her
house. P.W. 3 and P.W. 4 denied having sour relation with the accused and that
they have falsely implicated the accused. The evidence on record clearly shows
that evidence of the victim (P.W.1) and her mother (P.W.3) is found reliable,
trustworthy. The injury found by the M.O. (P.W.8) during examination and the
fact that just after the incident, the matter was informed to neighbours
including VDP Secretary and Gaonburah gave strength to the prosection. As

such, there was no scope of doubt towards any concoction of facts as

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 9 of 13
suggested by defence. The defence failed to cast any doubt on the evidence of
the victim recorded through interpreter that on the date of incident, accused
Binod Thakur, who is a neighbour of the victim came to her house while she
was alone, touched her breast and on her objection, accused hold her neck and
in that process, some abrasion injury was sustained by the victim. Moreover,
the absconding character of the accused also make the prosecution case more

strengthened.

22. Apart from above, Section 29 of POCSO Act 2012 Is also applicable
in this case which is quoted for ready reference:
“29. Presumption as to certain offences - Where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under
sections 3, 5, 7 and section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume,

that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be, unless the contrary is proved.”

23. In the present case in hand, if we read the evidence of the victim,
which is otherwise found believable and if taken with Section 29 of POCSO Act
it leaves no scope to doubt as accused failed to rebut the evidence of the victim
by giving either proper explanation or by adducing defence evidence or through

cross examination of the prosecution witnesses.

24. Considering all above, | hold that on 06.06.2016, at about 10.30
AM, while the victim 'S' was alone in her house, accused trespassed into the
house of the informant with an intention to commit an offence punishable with
imprisonment and thereby committed the offence of house trespass as made
punishable u/s 451 IPC. Moreover, by touching breast of the victim and also
touching her body and attempting to open her pant, accused has committed
the offence of sexual assault as defined u/s 7 of POCSO Act, 2012. However, as
the victim is physically challenged as well as during sexual assault, the accused
caused simple injury on the victim under definition of Section 9(i), 9(j) and 9(k)

of POCSO Act, the sexual assault becomes aggravated sexual assault.

25: To sum up the discussion, | am of the considered opinion that

prosecution has been able to prove the ingredients of offence punishable U/S
Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 10 of 13
10 of POCSO Act 2012 and Section 451 IPC against accused Sri Binod Thakur

beyond all reasonable doubt.

26. Accordingly, | hold the accused Binod Thakur guilty for the offence
punishable U/S 10 of POCSO Act, 2012 and Section 451 IPC and accordingly

accused Binod Thakur is convicted under the said Sections of Law.

27. | have considered the applicability of Section 3 & 4 of Probation of
Offenders Act in this case. In view of the nature of the offence proved by the
prosecution, particularly the act of sexual assault on a physically challenged
victim by a neighbour, | am not inclined to extend the benefit of Section 3 and

4 of Probation of Offenders Act to the accused.

28. Heard the accused on the point of sentence. His statement is
recorded in separate sheets. | have also heard learned Advocate for both the
sides. Learned Special PP has prayed for awarding maximum punishment for
the accused. Learned defence counsel has prayed for leniency in sentence and
submitted that as the accused is in Jail custody since 18.04.2017 the period
already undergone should be treated as sufficient punishment. | have

considered the submission of both the sides.

29. Considering all aspects of the case in hand, convict Binod Thakur
is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI) for 5 (five) years for
committing the offence punishable U/S 10 of POCSO Act, 2012 and also to pay
a fine of Rs. 5000/- (Rupees five thousand), i/d further S| of another 3 months
Convict Binod Thakur is further sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment
(RI) for 1 (one) year for committing the offence punishable U/S 451 IPC
and also to pay a fine of Rs. 1000/- (Rupees one thousand), i/d further SI

for one month. Both the sentences of imprisonment shall run concurrently.

30. Convict Binod Thakur is remanded to District Jail, Sivasagar to

serve out the remaining part of the sentence.

31. Convict Binod Thakur is entitled for the benefit of Section 428

Cr.P.C. for the period already undergone during investigation and trial.

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 11 of 13
32. It is further provided that in the event of realization of fine
amount, the entire amount will go to the mother of the victim which will be
used for betterment and treatment of the victim U/S 357 Cr.P.C.

Bo: Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the matter is
referred to DLSA Sivasagar for exploring the possibility of compensation U/S
357A Cr.P.C. Send a copy of the judgment to Secretary DLSA Sivasagar for

needful action.

34, Let a free of cost copy of the judgment be given to the convict

Binod Thakur immediately as per the provisions of Section 363(1) Cr.P.C.

oo) Convict Binod Thakur is informed about his right of appeal against
the judgment and order of conviction and sentence before Hon'ble Gauhati High
Court either by appointing his own advocate or though legal aid panel advocate

or by way of J ail Appeal.

36. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Charaideo U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

37. Learned legal aid Counsel is entitled for his professional fees from

DLSA Sivaasagar.

38. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case Is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this 9" day of August, 2018

at Sivasagar.

Special | udge,
Sivasagar

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 12 of 13
APPENDIX
1. Prosecution witnesses -

P.W.1- Victim 'S'

P.W.2- Sri Judisthir Tanti

P.W.3- Smt. Radha Mani Tassa
P.W.4- Sri Sambhu Tassa (Informant)
P.W.5- Sri Bharat Nayak

P.W.6- Sri Ratnakar Nayak

P.W.7- Smt. Munna Thakur

P.W.8- Dr. Rehan Seikh (M.O.)
P.W.9- Sri Dipul Kr. Boro (1.0.)

2. Defence witnesses : None

3. Court witnesses : None

4. Exhibits by prosecution -

Exbt.1 - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim 'S'

Exbt.2 - FIR

Exbt.3 - Medical examination report

Exbt.4 - Sketch map

Exbt.5 - Certificate issued by M.O. of Towkak Central Hospital
Exbt.6 - Charge-Sheet.

Special | udge,

Spl. (P) Case No. 42/2016 Page 13 of 13
