1 of 7

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE :::: NALBARI

Present: Mrs. S. Begum.
Sessions Judge,
Nalbari.

SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 24/17
u/s- 366/376 IPC R/W Sec 4 of the POCSO Act.

State of Assam

seers oneal Complainant
-Vs-
Nayan Das
eeeaeesaeesaees Accused person
Appearance :
For the prosecution: D. Barman, P.P, Nalbari
For the defence : J. Kalita, Advocate
Date of Argument : 09/10/2018
Date of Judgment : 09/10/2018
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 30/04/17 one

Sri Deben Talukdar lodged an ejahar alleging inter alia that since
26/04/17 his minor daughter, Sri Gangana Talukdar, (herein after
referred as Miss “X”) aged 15 years was missing and later on, on
search he could know that accused Nayan Das Kidnapped his
daughter. On the strength of the ejahar Nalbari PS Case No.271/17
u/s-366 IPC has been registered.

2. Police force set into motion on receipt of the ejahar
2 of 7

and police on completion of the investigation submitted charge-sheet
against accused Nayan Das u/s-366/376 IPC r/w section 4 of the
POCSO Act.

3. While the accused entered into his appearance before
this court getting prima-facie material against the accused u/s-
366/376 IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act charge was framed
accordingly and read over to the accused to which he pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution to bring home charge against the
accused examined as many as four witnesses including informant and

the victim. The case of the accused is of denial.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

B. i) Whether the accused you on 26/04/17 at about
4:30 PM at village Karia under Nalbari PS kidnapped “Miss X” with
intend that she may be compelled to marry against her will or in
order that she may be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and
thereby committed an offence punishable u/s — 366 IPC?

ii) Whether the accused on 26/04/17 and thereafter
committed rape upon “Miss X” and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s — 376 IPC?

iii) Whether the accused on 26/04/2017 and thereafter
committed penetrative sexual assault upon “Miss X”, aged about 15
years and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s-4 of the
POCSO Act?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

6. I have carefully scrutinized the evidence on record and

heard argument forwarded by learned counsel for both the sides.

Now to arrive at a judicious decision let me discuss and appreciate
3 of 7

the testimony of the prosecution witnesses. At the out set let me
discuss the evidence of Deben Talukdar who is the informant cum
father of the victim. He during his evidence revealed that one year
ago his daughter Miss 'X' was missing from his house and during
search he could know that she eloped with the accused Nayan Das.
He disclosed that at the time of occurrence the age of victim was 16
years 6 months. He lodged ejahar Ext-3 at the police station. It is
disclosed that after seven days he got information that the victim
herself appeared at Kamarkuchi Out Post under Nalbari Police Station
and immediately he visited the said Out Post and met his daughter.
His daughter was brought before the Magistrate by police and her
statement got recorded by Magistrate. He disclosed that the zimma of
the victim was given to his wife by Magistrate but 6 months later the
victim again eloped with the accused and since then victim stayed
with the accused. During cross-examination he revealed that victim
herself eloped with the accused and resided with the accused. It is
disclosed that at the time of occurrence the age of the victim was 18

years and he has no objection if the accused is acquitted.

7. PW-4, Miss 'X' who is the victim disclosed during her
evidence that about 1/2 years ago she herself eloped with the
accused with whom she had love affairs since 1% years. It is
revealed that later on she herself appeared at the Police Station and
police produced her before a Doctor and she was medically
examined. It is disclosed that her statement got recorded by
Magistrate and she exhibited Ext-4 as the statement recorded u/s-
164 CrPC. It is also disclosed by her that her custody was given to
her mother. However, six months subsequent to the incident she
again eloped with the accused as per her own accord and stayed with
him after performance of marriage with the accused as per Hindu
rites and rituals. During cross-examination she revealed that her age
was 18 years at the time of occurrence and that she led her conjugal

life with accused happily.
4 of 7

8. PW-3, Dipika Talukdar who is the mother of the victim
testified that about one year ago her daughter Miss 'X' became
untraced from her house and her husband lodged ejahar. It is
disclosed that subsequent to lodging the ejahar her daughter herself
appeared before the Police Station and after getting information from
police they visited the police station and met Miss 'X'. It is disclosed
that on inquiry Miss 'X' revealed before her that she herself eloped
with the accused. It is further disclosed that the zimma of the victim
was given to her by the Magistrate. But the victim again eloped with
the accused six months subsequent to the zimma. It is also disclosed
by her that age of her daughter was 18 years at the time of
occurrence. During cross-examination she revealed that now she
does not want to proceed with the case as her daughter lived happily

with the accused.

9. PW-1, Dr. Urmi Devi Choudhury is the Medical Officer
of this case. On 01/05/17 while she was working as M & H.O-1 at
SMK Civil Hospital, Nalbari on that day she examined Miss 'X', aged
15 years, D/o- Deben Talukdar of village Karia, brought by WPC 181
Tutumani Medhi in connection with Nalbari PS Case No.271/17.
Medical examination of the patient was done in presence of Tina
Kalita. The history of the case as narrated by the patient was that
she went with a known boy and physicall relation occurred with him
as per her own wishes. On examination of the patient she found the
following :-

Her external genitalia was found healthy. Hymen was
torn but healthy. Vagina and cervix was healthy. Vagina admits 2
fingers. Her last menstruation period was on 16/4/17. urine for
pregnancy test was advised, report shows negative result for
pregnancy. Vaginal swab was sent for sperm test, as per the report
no sperm seen. USG of lower abdomen was advised, as per the
report normal study was found. X-Ray was advised for age
estimation. From the X-Ray report age of the victim was found above

16 years and bellow 18 years. Doctor opined that the victim was not
5 of 7

consistent with recent sexual intercourse or assault. Ext-1 is the
medical report and Ext-1(1) is her signature. Ext-2 is the X-Ray report
and Ext-2(1) is the signature of Dr. Prabodh Kr. Sarma which is known

to her.

10. From the evidence on record it transpires that the
father of the victim who is examined as PW-2 though during his
evidence in chief disclosed that the age of the victim is 16 years 6
months yet during his cross examination he admitted that the age of
the victim was 18 years at the time of occurrence. PW-3 Dipika
Talukdar who is the mother of the victim disclosed during her
evidence that the age of the victim was 18 years at the time of
occurrence. The victim also testified in her evidence that her age was
18 years at the time of occurrence. However, the doctor testified that
the age of the victim is above 16 years and bellow 18 years as per
radiological report. But as per medical jurisprudence there may be

variation of 2 years on either side of age.

11. In the instant case, the parents of the victim and the
victim herself disclosed that the age of the victim was 18 years at the
time of occurrence. As per medical jurisprudence also age of the
victim can be considered as 18 years. So it is clear from the evidence
on record that the victim was a major girl at the time of occurrence.
Evidence of the victim shows that she had love affairs with the
accused since 12 years prior to the incident and she herself eloped
with the accused as per her own accord. The statement of the victim
recorded u/s- 164 CrPC also shows that the victim herself eloped with
the accused as per her own accord. Parents of the victim also
testified that the victim herself eloped with the accused. From the
evidence on record it transpires that the victim was a major girl at the
time of occurrence and she is a consenting party. Hence no case u/s-
366/376 IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Act has been established by

the prosecution.
6 of 7

12. Marshalling the evidence on record, it appears that the
prosecution has miserably failed to establish a case u/s- 366/376 IPC
and section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused beyond

reasonable doubt. On benefit of doubt, the accused is acquitted.

13. The accused persons will go on a fresh bail of Rs.
10,000/- with surety of like amount each u/s- 437-A IPC assuring that
they will appear before the higher court as and when such court issue
notice in respect of any appeal or petition filed against the judgment
and order of this court.

14. Copy of this judgment be kept with record.

Judgment is given under my hand and seal of this
court on this the 9" day of October, 2018

Sessions Judge
NaOlbari

Dictated & corrected by me

Sessions Judge, Nalbari

APPENDIX

Prosecution witness.

PW-1 Dr. Urmi Devi Choudhury
PW-2 Deben Talukdar (Informant)
PW-3 Dipika Talukdar

PW-4 Miss X” (Victim)
Nil.

Ext-1
Ext-2
Ext-3

7 of 7

Defence witness.

Prosecution Exhibit.
Medical Report
X-Ray report
Ejahar

Defence _ Exhibit.

Sessions Judge
Nalbari
